Annual Report 2014
“ I am proud to work on
our respiratory portfolio
and know how important
these medicines are to
the lives of patients.”
Julie, GSK respiratory packaging
operator, Ware, UKOverview of 2014
“ 2014 was a significant year for GSK. It was not without
its challenges and this was reflected in our trading
performance, although I am pleased with how the Group
responded. The standout event of the year was our proposed
three-part transaction with Novartis which will accelerate
our strategy of making GSK a simpler, stronger and more
balanced platform for long-term growth.”
Sir Andrew Witty
Chief Executive Officer
Read the CEO statement on page 4
Performance summary
£23.0bn £6.6bn £3.6bn £4.1bn
2014 Group turnover Core operating profitb 2014 Total operating profit Returned to shareholders via
(down 3% CERa) (down 6% CERa) (down 40% CER) dividends and share buybacks
95.4 57.3 40 £1.5bn
p p
Core earnings per shareb Total earnings per share Around 40 new molecular New product sales
(down 1%) (down 40% primarily reflecting entities in phase II and III (up 84%)
non-cash adjustments)
1st 100% 1st 84%
2014 Access to Medicine Index All countries have fully Company to file for regulatory Dow Jones Sustainability Index
implemented new sales approval for malaria vaccine score, putting us in top 2% of
force compensation model candidate the pharmaceutical sector
a E xcluding divestments completed in 2013. A reconciliation of 2013 b A number of adjusted measures are used to report the performance of
core results excluding divestments completed in 2013 and total results our business. These measures are defined on page 52 and a reconciliation
is set out on page 61. of core results to total results is set out on page 61.
Front cover story
Julie (pictured) has been with GSK for is to delivering our medicines. She leads
32 years and works as a respiratory a training programme which covers quality,
packaging operator at our manufacturing safety and patient impact – helping
site in Ware in the UK. Over the years, employees to appreciate the importance
her role has been to help ensure that of GSK’s respiratory medicines to millions
our life-saving medicines for COPD of adults and children.
and asthma – from Ventolin to Seretide
Julie is just one of the many people within
and most recently our four new medicines
GSK who have helped us remain the leader
administered by the Ellipta inhaler,
in respiratory medicine for over 40 years.
Relvar/Breo, Anoro, Incruse and Arnuity
We are continuously striving to generate
– are always of the highest quality and
scientific insights to help us develop new
are available to patients across the world
medicines and inhalers that meet the needs
when they need them.
of patients and have launched more new
Julie, GSK respiratory A key part of Julie’s role is to help colleagues respiratory medicines in the past two years
packaging operator at GSK understand more about the patient than in the previous 15 years combined,
Ware, UK at the end of the supply chain and how offering greater choice to healthcare
critical the contribution of every employee professionals and patients.
GSK Annual Report 2014Our mission
At GSK our mission is to Contents
Strategic report
improve the quality of human
Chairman’s statement 2
CEO’s statement 4
life by enabling people to do
What we do 6
Our global marketplace 8
more, feel better, live longer.
Our business model 11
Our strategic priorities 12
How we performed 14
Risk management 16
Our businesses 18
We are doing this by developing innovative Responsible business 36
Group financial review 48
products and improving access to healthcare
Governance & remuneration
for patients around the world.
Our Board 72
Our Corporate Executive Team 76
Chairman’s letter 78
Board report to shareholders 80
Committee reports 86
Remuneration report
Chairman’s annual statement 96
Annual report on remuneration 97
2014 Remuneration policy report 119
Financial statements
Directors’ statement of
responsibilities 130
Independent Auditor’s report 131
Financial statements 136
Notes to the financial statements 140
Financial statements of
GlaxoSmithKline plc prepared
under UK GAAP 211
Investor information
Quarterly trend 218
Five year record 222
Product development pipeline 225
Product, competition and
intellectual property 229
Risk factors 232
Share capital and share price 242
Dividends 244
Tax information for shareholders 244
Annual General Meeting 2015 245
US law and regulation 247
Shareholder services
and contacts 249
Glossary of terms 251
Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements
The Group’s reports filed with or furnished to the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including this document
and written information released, or oral statements made, to the public in the future by or on behalf of the Group, may
contain forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements give the Group’s current expectations or forecasts of
future events. An investor can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts.
They use words such as ‘anticipate’, ‘estimate’, ‘expect’, ‘intend’, ‘will’, ‘project’, ‘plan’, ‘believe’ and other words and terms of
similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. In particular, these include
statements relating to future actions, prospective products or product approvals, future performance or results of current
and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, the outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings, and financial
results. Other than in accordance with its legal or regulatory obligations (including under the UK Listing Rules and the
Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority), the Group undertakes no obligation to update any
forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The reader should, however,
consult any additional disclosures that the Group may make in any documents which it publishes and/or files with the SEC.
All readers, wherever located, should take note of these disclosures. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that any particular
expectation will be met and shareholders are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements are subject to assumptions, inherent risks and uncertainties, many of which relate to factors
that are beyond the Group’s control or precise estimate. The Group cautions investors that a number of important factors,
including those in this document, could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any
forward-looking statement. Such factors include, but are not limited to, those discussed under ‘Risk factors’ on pages
232- 241 of this Annual Report. Any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Group speak only as of the date
they are made and are based upon the knowledge and information available to the Directors on the date of this Annual Report. Find out more www.gsk.com
A number of adjusted measures are used to report the performance of our business. These measures are defined on page 52
and a reconciliation of core results to total results is set out on page 61.
GSK Annual Report 2014 12 GSK Annual Report 2014
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Chairman’s statement
On behalf of the Board I am pleased Risk management and commitment
“ Returns to to report that 2014 saw good progress to ethical behaviour
against the Group’s strategy of building The Board aims to assure the integrity
shareholders a diversified business, delivering more of GSK’s business operations through
products of value and simplifying the rigorous processes and systems and
remain a key operating model. during the year risk management was once
again a key part of the Board’s discussions.
Notwithstanding that, we also recognise
priority for the
the fundamental changes in the trading The Audit & Risk Committee plays a critical
environment in which the Group operates, role in overseeing the issues and challenges
Board and in 2014 particularly in the US, and how that has faced by the management team, including,
impacted performance in 2014. However, in 2014, the resolution of the investigation
we set a dividend the Board continues to believe the by the Chinese authorities into our business
management team has put in place there. The illegal activities of GSK China
of 80p per share, the appropriate strategy to respond were a clear breach of GSK’s governance
to these challenges. and compliance procedures and are wholly
contrary to the values and standards
an increase of 3%” The Board was particularly pleased
expected from GSK employees. We have
to approve the proposed three-part
implemented substantial changes to our
transaction with Novartis which will
Chinese business as a consequence.
transform the future shape of the Group
making it more balanced and providing The Board expects the Group to remain
better opportunity for broadly based sales vigilant on compliance issues and fully
growth. I was delighted that shareholders supports management’s efforts to
overwhelmingly voted in favour of the encourage employees who have concerns
transaction in December. to speak up, to investigate all allegations
that are made and to continue to invest
Returns to shareholders remain a key
in improved procedures.
priority for the Board and management
team and despite the challenging trading I have no doubt that commercial success
environment, a focus on cost and financial is directly linked to operating in a responsible
efficiencies has allowed the Board to way which meets the changing expectations
set a dividend of 80p per share for 2014, of society. In this respect, the Board
an increase of 3%. This year we expect to supports the action management has
maintain the dividend at 80p per share and taken to de-link compensation for sales
also return £4 billion of net proceeds from representatives from the number of
the proposed Novartis transaction, once prescriptions written. The Board also
appropriate approvals have been gained. recognises the industry leading work
the Group is doing to fundamentally
In total, since 2008 £34 billion has
change the relationship we have with
been returned to shareholders through
doctors and customers which is removing
dividends and share buybacks.
any perception of a conflict of interest.
This forward looking approach is
exemplified in our work on the world’s
first malaria vaccine where we await news
from regulators and in our efforts as part
of the global response to the Ebola crisis.
Both examples show the dedication,
skill and expertise that we have in GSK
to make a real difference to people’s
lives worldwide.GSK Annual Report 2014 3
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Board diversity
12
10
10 10 10
08
06
5 5 5
04
02
0
2012 2013 2014
Male Female
This year, in further efforts to improve our He succeeded me as Nominations Prospects
corporate reporting, we have incorporated Committee Chairman during January In closing, on behalf of the Board I would
more information about our responsible to lead the refreshment of the Board like to thank Sir Andrew and his executive
business approach and performance to reflect the requirements of the future team for their continuing commitment
within the Annual Report as we move reshaped Group. I will continue to during a challenging year where they
towards aligning with the principles of provide Sir Philip and the Committee have once again demonstrated their ability
Integrated Reporting. In addition, a with support and continuity, until I stand to deliver against the Group’s strategy.
Responsible Business Supplement, will be down from the Board at the 2015 AGM.
This will be my last report as Chairman
published in March, providing further detail
As well as welcoming Sir Philip to the of GSK and I would like to thank
on these topics and setting out progress
Board, I was also pleased to announce in shareholders for their support throughout
the Group made during 2014 against its
October that Urs Rohner would join the my tenure. Through my time as Chairman,
responsible business commitments.
Board as a Non-Executive Director with I have seen many changes and much
Governance and remuneration effect from 1 January 2015. He is already progress, whether that is delivery from
As Chairman, I am committed to GSK bringing great value to the Board using his the company’s R&D organisation, efforts
seeking to operate to the highest standards experience as Chairman of Credit Suisse to improve access to our medicines,
of corporate governance. An independent Group AG and his broad business or the evolution of the commercial model.
evaluation was undertaken of the Board background. This has been coupled with a strong
and our Committees in 2014. I’m pleased commitment to shareholder returns.
I would like to thank Sir Deryck Maughan
to say the results were positive and
for agreeing to remain on the Board for As I look forward, with the integration of
confirmed the Board operates in an
an additional year as Senior Independent new elements following the completion
effective manner.
Director to assist with transitioning the role of the proposed three-part Novartis
The Remuneration Committee has of Chairman from myself to Sir Philip, and transaction and further restructuring and
operated in accordance with the binding to utilise his considerable experience and innovation still to come in the R&D pipeline,
remuneration policy, which received knowledge of GSK’s businesses to provide I remain confident GSK will deliver
overwhelming shareholder support at continuity and balance. considerable, long-term value and
the 2014 AGM. It’s report can be found returns for shareholders.
My thanks also go to Jing Ulrich for her
on page 96.
dedicated service to the Board. Jing has
Board changes and composition decided not to seek re-election at our AGM.
There were a number of changes to the
Finally, Tom de Swaan stands down at
Board during the year.
our AGM after nine years of valuable and
Following an extensive and rigorous committed service, which has included his
search, Sir Philip Hampton was appointed exemplary chairmanship of the Audit & Risk
as my successor. Sir Philip joined the and Remuneration Committees. I would Sir Christopher Gent
Board as a Non-Executive Director at the like to thank Tom for his advice and Chairman
start of January and will become Deputy support over the years and wish him
Chairman in April and Chairman from the well for the future.
end of the 2015 AGM in May. Sir Philip
brings enormous expertise to the Board,
including chairing a number of global
companies operating in complex and
highly regulated environments.4 GSK Annual Report 2014
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
CEO’s statement
Since 2008 we have been reshaping Trading performance is challenging
“ Our proposed GSK to help us deliver more sustainable Pharmaceutical and Vaccines sales
sales and earnings performance, grew in Emerging Markets by 5% and
three-part increased innovation in our products Japan by 1%. Europe was flat. This
and better access to our medicines was offset by US sales declining 10%
transaction with for patients worldwide. as a result of continued pricing and
contracting pressure, particularly in
2014 marked further progress against
Novartis will our respiratory business.
these objectives, most notably with our
proposed innovative three-part transaction We have worked hard to improve our
fundamentally with Novartis. This will fundamentally formulary positioning and coverage in
reshape the company and is a major step the US and as we move into 2015, we
reshape the Group towards fulfilling our strategy of creating are starting to see some early encouraging
a simpler, stronger and more balanced signs of how this will help us regain market
and is a major step platform for long-term growth. share and deliver improved performance
in respiratory. In addition we continue to
Trading conditions continue to be
make good progress transitioning to our
towards fulfilling challenging, particularly in the US primary
new portfolio of respiratory medicines and
care market. This led to sales for the year
have recently launched two new products,
our strategy” declining 3% CER* to £23 billion and Incruse Ellipta for COPD and Arnuity
core earnings per share down 1% CER
Ellipta for asthma and we await a regulatory
to 95.4p, with some of the sales pressure
decision for mepolizumab, potentially
mitigated through delivery of cost and
a very important product.
financial efficiencies. We continue to make
returns to shareholders a priority and this Within HIV, ViiV Healthcare grew 15%
year increased the dividend 3% to 80p with sales of Tivicay and Triumeq reaching
per share and expect to hold it at this £339 million in 2014. The launches of
level for 2015. these products have been among the
best in class.
Future success for the Group will be
underpinned by our R&D organisation Performance in our Consumer Healthcare
which continues to be productive. business was impacted by some supply
In addition to a substantial advanced issues with sales for the year falling 1%,
pipeline we have a large number of but increasing 2% in the last quarter
exciting early phase assets in key following progress in remediation of these
therapeutic areas which are rapidly issues. We expect to see increasing benefit
moving forward through the clinic. through 2015 from an improved supply
situation and I remain confident in the
During 2014, we also kept up the pace
outlook for the business.
on innovation of our business model,
continuing to evolve our relationships Reshaping the company for
with doctors and customers to ensure a sustainable future
we meet society’s expectations of In April, we announced a proposed
a global pharmaceutical company. innovative three-part transaction
with Novartis where we will acquire their
vaccines business, form a joint Consumer
Healthcare company and sell Novartis
our marketed oncology products.
* excluding divestments completed in 2013GSK Annual Report 2014 5
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
The proposed transaction will give In addition to these organic programmes, Operating in emerging markets is
substantial global scale to our Consumer the proposed Novartis transaction will especially challenging given the issues
Healthcare business which will become allow us to target synergies of £1 billion many of these countries face with funding
a market leader in more than 30 countries per year by the fifth year following and maturity of their respective healthcare
as well as being the number one company completion. We have identified a further systems. However, we continue to believe
worldwide for over-the-counter medicines. £1 billion of annual cost savings to be that with robust compliance systems and,
delivered over the next three years as by working closely with local governments,
We are currently the world’s leading
we also reshape our Pharmaceuticals our presence in these markets can help
vaccine manufacturer and the proposed
and R&D organisation. improve access to medicines and broader
transaction further strengthens this position
healthcare.
while allowing us to expand our portfolio, The business remains cash generative
most notably in meningitis, build our with net cash inflow from operations of Broadening access to our medicines
geographic reach, particularly in the US, £5.2 billion for 2014, although this was Enabling the broadest possible access
and bring together expertise in virology impacted by global currency fluctuations, to our medicines remains a priority. I was
and bacterial infection research. particularly the strength of Sterling in the delighted in 2014 that we again topped
first half of 2014. the Access To Medicine Index for the
In selling our marketed oncology assets
fourth consecutive time. Nothing better
to Novartis for $16 billion we have realised Evolution in our business model
demonstrated our commitment to innovation
a very attractive price for a part of our As well as making financial savings,
and access in everything we do than our
business which, while fast growing, was our restructuring programmes are also
work on a vaccine for malaria which was
sub-scale and will benefit from being part seeking to modernise our ways of working
filed during 2014 and our very rapid
of a more established oncology company. and through 2014 we have continued
response to the Ebola crisis. In working on
to challenge ourselves to do more on We expect to complete the proposed our candidate Ebola vaccine, we have been
this agenda.
transaction in the week commencing able to achieve in around ten months which
2 March 2015. We have made substantial progress rolling would otherwise have taken several years.
out changes to how we compensate our I pay tribute to everyone from GSK involved
Sustainable R&D pipeline
sales representatives. These changes build in these two projects.
to support future growth
on the reforms we started in the US more
Over the last few years, our R&D Outlook
than two years ago and I was pleased to
organisation has had an exceptional Looking to 2015, we are focused on
see our most recent healthcare practitioner
period of productivity and since 2009 successful execution of our strategic
satisfaction research showing that GSK
we have achieved more FDA approvals priorities. Closing the proposed Novartis
now ranks first in the US among our
of new molecular entities (NMEs) than transaction is clearly key, alongside
peer group for the value we bring to
any other company. consolidating and building on the early
practitioners’ work.
progress we are seeing in respiratory as
Following approvals received in 2013
Adding to this, by 2016 we will have fully well as successfully launching other new
for respiratory products Breo Ellipta
implemented our commitment to stop products. We will also need to ensure the
and Anoro Ellipta, Tafinlar and Mekinist
paying doctors to speak on our behalf and Consumer Healthcare business continues
in oncology and Tivicay in HIV, we
instead will deliver a new multi-channel to recover from its supply issues.
received four further approvals in 2014:
system which will transform how doctors
Incruse Ellipta and Arnuity Ellipta in Some of the sales headwinds faced by the
receive information from us.
respiratory, Triumeq in HIV and Tanzeum Group in 2014 will continue to adversely
for type 2 diabetes. We are undertaking these reforms to affect performance during 2015 with a
ensure patients are put first in everything greater impact in the first half of the year.
We are awaiting FDA decisions on Breo
we do and to eliminate any perception However, with annualisation of these
Ellipta for use in asthma and mepolizumab,
of conflict of interest. We believe these factors and successful execution of our
our first-in-class anti-IL5 treatment for
changes are not only the right thing to priorities, we expect a stronger performance
severe eosinophilic asthma. We continue
do, but that they will also be a competitive in the second half of the year.
to see significant organic pipeline delivery
advantage. They follow our initiatives on
and this year we expect up to 25 phase II In 2015, we will also be making a decision
clinical trial data transparency and other
or III starts. on whether to undertake a minority initial
companies are now also making more of
public offering of ViiV Healthcare.
In our advanced pipeline we see significant their clinical study results available.
potential, for example, from our vaccine to In addition, following the closure of the
Operating to our values
prevent shingles, our triple combination proposed Novartis transaction we plan
How we operate is as important to us as
therapy for COPD and our new long acting to hold an Investor Day where we will issue
delivering financial performance. That’s
HIV treatment, cabotegravir. In addition to specific earnings guidance for the year and
why the issues we saw in China last year
these we have a number of very exciting profile the medium and long-term shape
have been wholly disappointing and caused
early stage assets in therapy areas such and opportunities for GSK.
harm to the Group’s reputation. We have
as immuno-inflammation, immuno-oncology
taken significant steps to rectify the issues Finally, I would like to thank all our
and cardiovascular disease and a number
identified in our Chinese business and to employees, partners and suppliers for
of prophylactic and therapeutic vaccine
apply appropriate lessons to our operations their continued commitment and support.
candidates.
elsewhere. Given the complexity of our
Cost control and financial efficiencies sector and the challenges of working in
We remain focused on cost control and global healthcare, we will continue to
improving financial efficiencies. During the face risks.
year we delivered around £400 million of
incremental savings compared with 2013
through our various restructuring initiatives
and ongoing cost reduction efforts.
Sir Andrew Witty
Chief Executive Officer6 GSK Annual Report 2014
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
What we do
Our business
We are a science-led global healthcare company that
researches and develops innovative Pharmaceuticals,
Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare products.
Our global reach How we are structured
We have a significant global commercial Turnover by region While we have three primary areas of
presence in more than 150 markets, 2014 business, our commercial operations
a network of 84 manufacturing sites 6% are structured as a combination of
7%
in 36 countries and large R&D centres regional units and areas of focus.
32%
in the UK, USA, Belgium and China. The businesses each benefit from
GSK’s global commercial infrastructure,
Since 2008 we have reshaped our global 27%
international supply networks, innovative
footprint to improve access to high growth
R&D and significant scale.
potential markets including those in
USA
Asia Pacific, Latin America and Japan. 28% Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines operate
Europe
Emerging Markets as a combined business in geographical
Japan segments. Consumer Healthcare is
£23.0bn Other a global unit, as is ViiV Healthcare,
the specialist HIV company we majority
own with Pfizer and Shionogi as the
2014 Group turnover (down 3% CERa) Employees by region other shareholders.
2014 4% 2%
Other trading turnover includes
97,921 17%
Canada, Puerto Rico, Australasia,
central vaccine tender sales and
contract manufacturing sales.
Employees 38%
Turnover by segment £bn
39%
a Excluding divestments completed in 2013 USA Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 18.7
Europe
Emerging Markets US 5.0
Japan Europe 4.0
Other
Emerging Markets 3.2
Japan 0.9
ViiV Healthcare 1.5
Established Products 3.0
Other trading 1.1
Consumer Healthcare 4.3
Research and We sustain and grow our business through Our Consumer Healthcare business
investment in R&D. Over 13,000 people is also underpinned by science and
development work in R&D roles across the group and innovation. In 2014 we launched over
in 2014 we spent £3.1 billion before 50 new to market products, including
non-coreb items, £3.5 billion in total, in Sensodyne True White and Horlicks
our search to develop innovative medicines, variations.
£3.1bn vaccines and consumer products.
Core R&D expenditure
In Pharmaceuticals we have around
allocation in 2014 £m %
25 new molecular entities in phase II
Core R&D expenditure in 2014 and phase III in therapeutic areas such Pharmaceuticals 2.5 81
as respiratory, immuno-inflammation, Vaccines 0.4 14
80%
HIV and cardiovascular disease. Consumer Healthcare 0.2 5
We have 14 vaccines currently in phase I-III b T he calculation of core results and non-core
items is set out on page 52.
Preclinical to phase II NME’s have to prevent shingles, hepatitis C, TB,
novel mechanisms of action respiratory syncytial virus, exacerbations
in COPD, and malaria and Ebola.GSK Annual Report 2014 7
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Pharmaceuticals Our Pharmaceuticals business develops and makes medicines to treat a broad range
of acute and chronic diseases. Our portfolio is made up of innovative and established
medicines and we have leading global positions in respiratory disease and HIV.
Read more on page 20
Sales by therapy area £m
£15.5bn Respiratory 6,181
Oncology 1,202
Cardiovascular, metabolic and urology 965
Total turnover Immuno-inflammation 214
Other pharmaceuticals 2,407
67.3% ViiV Healthcare (HIV) 1,498
Established Products 3,011
of Group turnover
Vaccines Our Vaccines business is one of the largest in the world. We have a broad portfolio
of over 30 paediatric, adolescent, adult and travel vaccines. In 2014, we distributed
approximately 800 million doses in 170 countries.
Read more on page 20
Sales by product line £m
£3.2bn Infanrix/Pediarix 828
Boostrix 317
Cervarix 118
Total turnover Fluarix and FluLaval 215
Hepatitis 558
13.9% Rotarix 376
Synflorix 398
Other 382
of Group turnover
Consumer Our Consumer Healthcare business is one of the largest in the world, driven
by science and values. We develop and market products in four categories
Healthcare – Wellness, Oral health, Nutrition and Skin health – and our brands are available
in over 100 countries.
Read more on page 33
Sales by category £m
£4.3bn Wellness 1,596
Oral health 1,797
Nutrition 633
Total turnover Skin health 310
18.8%
of Group turnover8 GSK Annual Report 2014
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Our global marketplace
Opportunities and challenges
Demand for medicines and healthcare treatments
will remain strong in coming years.
Global economic review The consumer healthcare markets in The emphasis on cost has led to increased
The global economy grew by 2.6% in 2014, which GSK operates are estimated to be pricing pressures and competitive intensity
up slightly from 2.5% in 2013. worth over $100 billion, and are projected – both within the private marketplace, as
to grow by 3-4% per annum over the next well as for public programmes. This makes
However, the recovery has been uneven
five years.c it essential for manufacturers to
across regions. Growth in some major
demonstrate the value medicines and
economies has been strong – the US grew Global trends are impacting the healthcare
vaccines bring to patients and the
by 2.4%, up from 2.2% in 2013 and the market. Economic growth and changing
healthcare system in the USA and to
UK grew by 2.6%, up from 1.7% in 2013. demographics in emerging markets are
develop innovative products that offer
Growth was weaker in the Euro area at increasing demand for healthcare products.
significant improvements on existing
0.8% (up from -0.4% in 2013) and Japan This demand is expected to grow
options. Access to healthcare also remains
at 0.2% (down from 1.5% in 2013). significantly faster in these markets over
a key priority, as evidenced by initiatives
the longer term than in more mature
Emerging markets showed stronger such as new health insurance marketplaces,
markets. As these countries become richer,
economic growth than developed markets the expansion of the Medicaid programme increased consumption of food, alcohol
in 2014, continuing this long-term trend. and financial penalties for people who do
and tobacco, combined with less exercise,
China still shows robust growth, but not purchase insurance. However, while
is leading to growth in chronic diseases,
down to 7.4% compared to 7.7% in 2013. more Americans now have access to
such as respiratory and cardiovascular
Low income countries continued to grow healthcare coverage, access to medicines
disease. In Europe rising public debt and
at a robust pace. For example, growth in continues to be a challenge for some
government austerity programmes continue
sub-Saharan Africa was 4.5%, up from patients across the healthcare system,
to create pressure on healthcare spending.
4.2% in 2013. including the private marketplace.
In the US focus on cost and value, is
The global healthcare market leading payers to reduce price, restrict Europe
The global pharmaceutical market access and demand more differentiated In Europe, the European Medicines Agency
continued to grow in 2014, with sales products, so manufacturers must develop (EMA) regulates new medicines and in
of £393 billion (Jan-Sep), up from innovative products that offer significant 2014 issued 36 positive opinions
£362 billion (Jan-Sep 13) (CER).a improvements on existing options. recommending marketing authorisation
for medicines containing new active
North America remains the largest Globally, populations are ageing and taking
substances (38 in 2013).
pharmaceutical market, with a 45% share an increasingly active role in managing their
of global sales (up from 43% in 2013). own health which is creating more demand Given the public funding of healthcare
Europe showed a slight decline from for healthcare products. Rising individual in most countries, the continued pressure
25% to 24% over the same period, empowerment and growing expectations on government budgets led to flat or
while Emerging Markets and Asia Pacific from society also mean that patients and reduced investment in healthcare and
continued to represent 23% of global consumers want healthcare companies pharmaceuticals across Europe. Spending
sales. Japan represented 9%, down to operate with high standards in order on hospital medicines increased, which was
from 10% the previous year.a to build trust. mostly driven by increased use of oncology
and biological products, but decreased in
In 2014, the global vaccines market Pricing and regulation
primary care. High-priced medicines
increased 6% to around $25 billion.b Prescription medicines and vaccines are
generated significant public debate,
The market is expected to continue highly regulated to ensure patients and users
with particular focus on oncology and
growing and represent around $38 billion have access to safe and effective medicines.
treatments for hepatitis C. by 2020.b Individual governments determine which
products can be marketed in their countries Inequality of access to medicines, both
and many have state-regulated systems between European countries and within
Total global sales of medicines governing product pricing. patient populations, remains a significant
by regiona concern. Despite much debate on how
USA
a new pricing approach could reduce
In the US, the Food and Drug Administration
9% (FDA) approves new medicines and in inequality, concrete progress has been
limited and practical challenges such as
2014 approved 41 novel medicines, an
parallel trade and international reference
23% increase from 27 in 2013.
45% pricing remain. During the year, the EMA
The healthcare landscape in the USA launched the Adaptive Pathways Pilot to
is undergoing substantial change, with help accelerate patient access to valuable
a much stronger focus on improving quality new medicines. Several countries, including
24% and controlling costs. The impact of this the UK and France, are also considering
was particularly significant in 2014, this issue unilaterally.
USA creating challenging conditions for
Europe the industry.
Emerging Markets and Asia Pacific
Japan Footnotes
a Reference: IMS data Jan-Sep 2014
b Reference: EvaluatePharma
c Reference: IMS, EvaluatePharma
and internal analysisMacro-economic and social trends
Population growth and ageing populations Rapid technological advances
Rise of individual empowerment Rising public debt in western markets
Economic growth in emerging markets Climate change and resource depletion
Lifestyle changes Global competition for talent
Opportunities and challenges for the healthcare sector
Our strategic response
GSK Annual Report 2014 9
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Responding to long-term global opportunities and challenges
Changing lifestyles leading to new disease burden Rising public debt leading to pressures
on healthcare spending
Growing demand in emerging markets Payer focus on value leading to more demand
for differentiated products
Ageing population leading to increased demand Rise of individual empowerment and meeting
for healthcare society’s growing expectations
Emerging markets a key focus Creating innovative products
Since 2008 we have reshaped our business to enhance We are committed to developing innovative new products
access to high-growth markets such as Asia Pacific, that offer significant improvements over existing treatments
Latin America and Japan. Our Emerging Markets sales and so we focus our research efforts in areas where the
have grown from c.16% of turnover in 2008 to 27% today. science presents the best opportunities to address unmet
medical need. 80% of our preclinical to phase II NME’s
have novel mechanisms of action.
Addressing affordability Changing how we work with healthcare professionals
We are committed to tackling affordability barriers. We are modernising how we work with healthcare
In Least Developed Countries we cap the prices of professionals (HCPs) to ensure our actions are always
our patented medicines and vaccines at 25% of prices in the interests of patients. Our sales staff who directly
charged in developed countries. In developed markets interact with prescribing HCPs are incentivised on their
we have pioneered novel reimbursement approaches knowledge, expertise and business performance, rather
to widen access to our newer medicines and priced than individual sales targets. By 2016, we will have stopped
these at below current treatments. direct payments to HCPs to speak about our medicines
and vaccines.10 GSK Annual Report 2014
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Our global marketplace
Opportunities and challenges – continued
Adoption of new vaccines remains Intellectual property and Consumer healthcare products
slow in many countries and coverage patent protection The development timeline for consumer
rates vary significantly. The journey from scientific breakthrough healthcare products is shorter than
to approved new medicine or vaccine for pharmaceuticals and vaccines.
Japan takes years and can incur significant While intellectual property protections
In Japan, the Pharmaceutical and Medical
costs. To ensure a reasonable return on are available, their importance and
Device Agency (PMDA) regulates new
investment, research-based healthcare effectiveness are different. Consumer
medicines and approved 33 from April
companies rely on the protection of their healthcare products are also covered by
to December 2014.
intellectual property through patents and national regulation regarding the testing,
In April 2014, the Japanese Ministry of other rights. approval, manufacturing, labelling,
Health, Labour and Welfare conducted marketing and advertising.
Patents generally have a 20-year term from
its bi-yearly review of the pricing in medicines,
filing and are sometimes challenged before Consumer healthcare products have strong
resulting in a 2.7% reduction (5.6% excluding
they expire. In these cases there are legal reliance on brand loyalty and trade mark
the impact of the consumption tax increase
proceedings (see ‘Legal proceedings’ in protection to create value, especially in
from 5% to 8%) under the National Health
Note 45 of the Financial Statements). emerging markets. Brands play an important
Insurance pricing scheme, based on the
role in our business. We have many leading
government’s market price survey. Patent expiry or the early loss of a patent
brands including Sensodyne, Panadol,
can lead to the availability of a generic
The premium for new drug development, Horlicks, Polident, Paradontax, Tums,
version of the product which is often
which was introduced in 2010 on a trial ENO, NiQuitin/Nicorette, Abreva, Zovirax
cheaper as the generic manufacturer does
basis, remained in place in 2014. and Aquafresh. Moreover, our brands have
not typically incur significant R&D costs.
a distinct heritage such as Horlicks (140
Emerging markets In developed markets, generics can rapidly years old) and ENO (160 years old).
In emerging markets, prescription capture a large share of the market. Market
medicines are regulated in a variety of erosion may be less in emerging markets Competition
ways. However, the approval process where automatic substitution methods are Competition for our prescription products
continues to evolve and is aligning more not as developed. Patients may also have comes from other companies researching
closely with the USA, Europe and Japan quality and safety concerns and therefore and making patent-protected medicines
both in terms of format and content. prefer an established medicine brand. with indications to treat similar diseases
Some countries, such as China, India, to our medicines. Our principal research-
In some of the markets we operate in,
Russia, Vietnam and Nigeria require based pharmaceutical and vaccines
intellectual property rights, particularly
local clinical data in order to fulfil their competitors include: AbbVie, Amgen,
patents and data protection, are less
regulatory requirements. Astra Zeneca, Bayer, Bristol-Myers Squibb,
enforceable as governments seek to
Eli Lilly, Johnson & Johnson, Merck & Co, Economic growth and changing control prices and increase access
Novartis, Novo Nordisk, Pfizer, Roche
demographics in these markets is to medicines by limiting such rights.
Holdings, Sanofi and Takeda.
increasing demand for healthcare products. For example, India, Brazil and Argentina
This demand is expected to grow significantly have implemented, or are considering, Some of our main consumer healthcare
faster in these markets over the longer practices that restrict the availability of competitors include Colgate-Palmolive,
term than in more mature markets. patents. In addition, some countries are Johnson & Johnson, Procter & Gamble,
considering more widespread use of Reckitt Benckiser, and Novartis (see full
Governments across these regions
compulsory licensing where an individual list on page 231).
continue to seek ways to improve access
or company can use another’s patent
to healthcare while at the same time In addition, many other locally operating
without their consent, and pays the patent
manage healthcare expenditure, including companies compete with GSK in
owner a set fee for the licence.
spending on medicines. Countries such certain markets.
as Indonesia, China and India are looking Vaccines and other biological products
to expand the population covered by do not currently face such a degree of
government-funded health schemes. generic competition, partly due to the
This increases the opportunities for high- more complex research and manufacturing
volume tenders but also impacts pricing. processes compared to medicines.GSK Annual Report 2014 11
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Our business model
How we create value
Our success depends on our ability to research and
develop innovative healthcare products and make
them accessible to as many people as possible.
Our resources Our businesses Our operating Outputs
model
Our mission is Pharmaceuticals R&D Benefits to patients
underpinned by: Discovering and and customers
developing innovative
Our values healthcare products
Financial returns,
Our people
Vaccines Manufacturing profits and cashflow
Financial resources Making and shipping
quality products
Strategic priorities around the world Shareholder value
Partnerships
Consumer Healthcare Commercialisation
Our expertise
and distribution
Wider benefits to society
Improving access
to our products
Reinvestment
Our mission is to improve the quality Our operating model Outputs
of human life by enabling people to Innovation is key to our success and we Developing innovative products and
do more, feel better and live longer. have transformed our R&D organisation maximising access to them delivers direct
over recent years to be more agile. Since benefit to patients and consumers.
Our resources
2009, we’ve had more medicines approved
To deliver our mission we must align all our If we do this successfully, it will lead to
than any other healthcare company and
resources behind our strategic priorities. profitable and sustainable performance.
we have many more in development. We
In turn this allows us to generate value and
We depend on the expertise and have also implemented different ways of
returns for our shareholders and enables
enthusiasm of our 98,000 employees to supporting R&D, for example, opening up
us to reinvest in the business so patients
embrace new ways of working and to forge access to our expertise, our facilities and
and consumers continue to benefit.
partnerships that can offer fresh insights even some of our intellectual property to
into how best to combat the world’s collaborate with more than 3,000 external Over and above this, wider society benefits
healthcare challenges. organisations. since healthy people and communities are
essential to building strong, sustainable
We expect everyone to put our values at To bring these innovations to patients
societies. We also create value by making
the heart of their decision making. This and consumers, we manufacture billions
direct and indirect economic and social
means acting transparently, respectfully of products to high-quality standards and
contributions in the countries where we
and with integrity – and putting the supply them to more than 150 countries
operate, through tax, employment and
interests of patients and consumers first. worldwide.
charitable support.
How we deliver success is just as
Our commercial success depends on
important as what we achieve.
market presence, customer understanding
We have made good progress against our and expanding access. We seek to make
strategic priorities, established in 2008, our products accessible for countries at
to grow a diversified, global business, all levels of income and development.
deliver more products of value, and In the Least Developed Countries, this
simplify our operating model. includes capping prices at 25% of
developed market levels, and reducing
Our businesses
prices through high-volume contracts.
We’re a science-led healthcare
In developed markets, we have pioneered
company operating in three main areas
novel reimbursement approaches to widen
– Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines, and
access to our newer medicines and priced
Consumer Healthcare.
these at or below current treatments.12 GSK Annual Report 2014
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Our strategic priorities
How we deliver
Our strategy is designed to increase growth,
reduce risk and improve our long-term
financial performance.
Our strategic priorities Progress since 2008 Progress in 2014 Key challenges in 2014 2014 Key performance Our priorities in 2015
Grow
Total group sales broadly stable, Proposed major three-part transaction with Increased pricing pressure in the US Implement proposed transaction
£23.0bn
despite significant sales losses to Novartis to bolster Vaccines and Consumer from market changes, competitor with Novartis.
a diversified business
generic competition. Healthcare businesses announced. dynamics and contracting.
Improve commercialisation of new
Our aim is to create a balanced Diversification delivering organic growth, Transition to new respiratory portfolio Continued pricing pressure in Europe Group turnover respiratory, HIV and Consumer
business and product portfolio, Emerging Market sales up from c. 16% underway with launch of Relvar/Breo due to government austerity programmes. Healthcare products.
capable of delivering sustainable of turnover in 2008 to 27% today. Ellipta, Anoro Ellipta, Incruse Ellipta
Unanticipated supply continuity £95.4 Drive growth in Emerging Markets
sales growth, centred on three £34 billion in returns paid to shareholders, and Arnuity Ellipta. challenges in Consumer Healthcare. p across the three businesses.
business areas of Pharmaceuticals,
including £24 billion of dividends and ViiV Healthcare sales up 15% in 2014 with
Vaccines, and Consumer Healthcare. £10 billion of buy-backs. Dividend up successful launches of Tivicay and Triumeq. core earnings per share* Capitalise on product supply resumption
in Consumer Healthcare business. from 57p in 2008 to 80p for 2014.
* a reconciliation of core results to total results is
set out on page 61
Deliver
Created a more agile and productive Significant new product approvals in Disappointing phase III results for Continue to progress mid-stage pipeline
4
R&D organisation, with more product respiratory diseases, HIV and diabetes. MAGE A3 and darapladib programmes. with 25 phase II/III starts expected.
more products of value
approvals than any other healthcare
Malaria candidate vaccine, RTS,S, Integrate proposed Novartis vaccines
company since 2009.
Our aim is to research and develop submitted for regulatory approval. new product approvals in major markets pipeline.
high quality products that offer Improved R&D investment rate of return
valuable improvements in treatment from 11% in 2010 to 13% in 2013. Positive phase III study results for
40
for patients, consumers and shingles candidate vaccine (HZ/su).
healthcare providers.
In Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines we
have around 40 new molecular entities
in phase II and III
Simplify
£3.5 billion cumulative annual cost £400 million of incremental savings Unanticipated supply continuity Execute Pharmaceuticals restructuring
21
savings delivered through a range of delivered through restructuring initiatives challenges in Consumer Healthcare. programme to save £1 billion per annum
the operating model
restructuring programmes since 2008. and ongoing cost reduction. over three years.
Complexity of rolling out new systems
Our aim is to reflect how our Reduced complexity by disposing of Global enterprise resource planning at scale across many markets. days increase in working capital* Continue streamlining product portfolio
business is changing by transforming non-core brands, integrating supply system (ERP) rolled out to 19 markets. embedding common processes.
how we operate to reduce complexity chains across our businesses and
£3.5bn Continue roll-out of ERP system.
and become more efficient. introducing new workplace efficiencies
to speed decision making. Execute restructuring programme This frees up resources to reinvest
elsewhere in the business. cumulative annual savings made through related to proposed Novartis transaction
restructuring programmes since 2008 to save £1 billion per annum by fifth year
from closing.
* adjusted to exclude divestments completed in
2013 and the impact of intangible asset impairment
Responsible
Relentless focus on access to healthcare Collaborated with partners to accelerate Rebuilding business in China following Continue to enhance governance,
business – first in the Access to Medicine Index development of Ebola vaccine candidate. criminal conviction of China affiliate for compliance and quality through proactive
since 2008. violation of Chinese law. risk management and quality-led culture.
Delivered global roll-out of new sales force
Being a responsible business is Evolved our commercial model, compensation approach. Meeting value chain carbon emission Deliver new commercial model globally
central to our strategy, and how we changing ways of working with target while sales of products with by changing the way we work with HCPs.
Launched new Africa strategy to reach
deliver success is just as important healthcare professionals and incentives high carbon footprint, such as Ventolin,
80% of the sub-Saharan African and Least Improve leadership effectiveness and
as what we achieve. for sales force. are increasing.
Developed Countries population by 2020. quality of talent.
Ensuring our values are embedded Led on increasing transparency to clinical
In early 2015 we extended our price Continue to progress development
in our culture and decision making trial data – first company to sign up to
freeze commitment to 10 years for of Ebola vaccine candidate.
helps us better meet the AllTrials campaign.
Gavi-graduating countries.
expectations of society.GSK Annual Report 2014 13
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Our strategic priorities Progress since 2008 Progress in 2014 Key challenges in 2014 2014 Key performance Our priorities in 2015
Total group sales broadly stable, Proposed major three-part transaction with Increased pricing pressure in the US Implement proposed transaction
£23.0bn
despite significant sales losses to Novartis to bolster Vaccines and Consumer from market changes, competitor with Novartis.
generic competition. Healthcare businesses announced. dynamics and contracting.
Improve commercialisation of new
Diversification delivering organic growth, Transition to new respiratory portfolio Continued pricing pressure in Europe Group turnover respiratory, HIV and Consumer
Emerging Market sales up from c. 16% underway with launch of Relvar/Breo due to government austerity programmes. Healthcare products.
of turnover in 2008 to 27% today. Ellipta, Anoro Ellipta, Incruse Ellipta
Unanticipated supply continuity 95.4 Drive growth in Emerging Markets
£34 billion in returns paid to shareholders, and Arnuity Ellipta. challenges in Consumer Healthcare. p across the three businesses.
including £24 billion of dividends and ViiV Healthcare sales up 15% in 2014 with
£10 billion of buy-backs. Dividend up successful launches of Tivicay and Triumeq. core earnings per share* Capitalise on product supply resumption
in Consumer Healthcare business. from 57p in 2008 to 80p for 2014.
* a reconciliation of core results to total results is
set out on page 61
Created a more agile and productive Significant new product approvals in Disappointing phase III results for Continue to progress mid-stage pipeline
4
R&D organisation, with more product respiratory diseases, HIV and diabetes. MAGE A3 and darapladib programmes. with 25 phase II/III starts expected.
approvals than any other healthcare
Malaria candidate vaccine, RTS,S, Integrate proposed Novartis vaccines
company since 2009.
submitted for regulatory approval. new product approvals in major markets pipeline.
Improved R&D investment rate of return
from 11% in 2010 to 13% in 2013. Positive phase III study results for
40
shingles candidate vaccine (HZ/su).
In Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines we
have around 40 new molecular entities
in phase II and III
£3.5 billion cumulative annual cost £400 million of incremental savings Unanticipated supply continuity Execute Pharmaceuticals restructuring
21
savings delivered through a range of delivered through restructuring initiatives challenges in Consumer Healthcare. programme to save £1 billion per annum
restructuring programmes since 2008. and ongoing cost reduction. over three years.
Complexity of rolling out new systems
Reduced complexity by disposing of Global enterprise resource planning at scale across many markets. days increase in working capital* Continue streamlining product portfolio
non-core brands, integrating supply system (ERP) rolled out to 19 markets. embedding common processes.
chains across our businesses and
£3.5bn Continue roll-out of ERP system.
introducing new workplace efficiencies
to speed decision making. Execute restructuring programme
cumulative annual savings made through related to proposed Novartis transaction
restructuring programmes since 2008 to save £1 billion per annum by fifth year
from closing.
* adjusted to exclude divestments completed in
2013 and the impact of intangible asset impairment
Relentless focus on access to healthcare Collaborated with partners to accelerate Rebuilding business in China following Continue to enhance governance,
– first in the Access to Medicine Index development of Ebola vaccine candidate. criminal conviction of China affiliate for
1st
compliance and quality through proactive
since 2008. violation of Chinese law. risk management and quality-led culture.
Delivered global roll-out of new sales force
Evolved our commercial model, compensation approach. Meeting value chain carbon emission in 2014 Access to Medicine Index Deliver new commercial model globally
changing ways of working with target while sales of products with by changing the way we work with HCPs.
Launched new Africa strategy to reach
healthcare professionals and incentives high carbon footprint, such as Ventolin,
80% of the sub-Saharan African and Least 84% Improve leadership effectiveness and
for sales force. are increasing.
Developed Countries population by 2020. quality of talent.
Led on increasing transparency to clinical
trial data – first company to sign up to In early 2015 we extended our price Dow Jones Sustainability Index score, Continue to progress development
AllTrials campaign. freeze commitment to 10 years for placing us in the top 2% of our sector of Ebola vaccine candidate.
Gavi-graduating countries.14 GSK Annual Report 2014
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
New Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines
Group turnover Turnover in our major growth areasb New product approvals in major markets product performanceb
£23.0bn How we performed £12.3bn Definition 4 approvals Definition £1.5bn Definition
Turnover was down 3%, excluding This measure focuses on major growth Major market is defined as USA, New products launched in the last
divestments in the prior year. Lower areas: Vaccines, Consumer Healthcare, EU and/or Japan. five years on a rolling basis. In 2014
Pharmaceutical and Vaccines Emerging Markets and Japan. the following products were no longer
How we performed
A (1) 1 (3)* sales in the US and in Established A 54 53 53 How we performed First regulatory approvals for A 34 33 84 included in the calculation: Arzerra,
Products only partly offset by growth Lamictal XR, Potiga, Prolia, Votrient.
B (3) – (10)* in Emerging Markets, Japan and ViiV W groe w s ta hw i nc Eon mti en ru ge ind g P Mha ar rm kea tc s e au nt dic Ja als p an. 07 ETa lln ipz te au am n, d I n Tc rir uu mse e qE .llipta, Arnuity How we performed
Healthcare. Consumer Healthcare
3 20 5 26.4 22 56 .. 65 * 23.0 s W Aa h kle eys y i tw o’s be jr i eme c l p to ivow ere t oar. fn ot ur strategy is to 1 18 5 14.3 11 34 .. 51 * V w s inaa e tl ec er rec s r i u bn w pe r eo ts ira o ea d n n il smyd . fl pC a ato c. n tC es dou m n bs ye u r sm H ue pe r pa H ll yt eh ac la thre c are 00 56 6 W T orhh gisy a nmit is’ es aa ti s im ou nrp e o i ssr ht da o en w lit vs e h rio nw g nth ee w R p& roD d ucts 1 1. .5 250 1.4 1.4 1.5 S i 8 tn u%a r2 nle 0 oos 1 vf 4 eo P rf , h . gn ae r rew mw ap c8r eo 4 ud % tu i cc a at ns ld aw nree dpr e Vr e a£ s c1 e c. n5 int e eb d sil lion
20 deliver sustainable, broadly-sourced 12 12.3 04 4 to drive the growth of the Group. 1.00
Why it’s important Why it’s important
sales growth.
15 09 This highlights progress in delivering 03 0.75 This measure shows the delivery of
our strategy to create broad-based sales in each year from products
10 06 sales growth that is more resilient 02 2 0.50 launched in the prior five years on a
to volatility. rolling basis, and creates incentives
05 03 01 0.25
for improved R&D performance.
0 2012 2013 2014 0 2012 2013 2014 0 2012 2013 2014 0 2012 2013 2014
A Reported growth CER % A % share of total turnover A Reported growth CER %
B Reported growth £ %
Total operating profit and margin Free cash flowb Cash returned to shareholders
£3.6bn How we performed £2.6bn Definition £4.1bn How we performed
Total operating profit was £3.6 billion. The calculation of free cash flow During 2014, GSK returned £4.1 billion
Excluding currency effects, the is described on page 52 and a to shareholders via dividends and share
total operating margin declined 9.4 reconciliation is provided on buy-backs.
A (3) (1) (40) percentage points to 15.6%, primarily A (51) >100 (44) page 68. The calculation of CER A 13 (18) (21) Why it’s important
reflecting higher SG&A costs, lower is described on page 52. B (6) (4) (49) profits on the disposal of business and B (17) 2 (30) How we performed 07 W dive id c eo nn dt in gu roe w to th f o oc veu rs to hn e d loe nli gv e teri rn mg and
products, and non-cash adjustments to
12 06 Free cash flow was £2.6 billion. The 06 returning free cash flow to shareholders
the contingent consideration in relation
decline reflecting the impact of the through share buy-backs where this
10 to ViiV Healthcare as a result of higher 05 strength of Sterling and lower profits, 05 offers a more attractive return than sales outlook for Tivicay and Triumeq. 4.7 including the impact of divestments. alternative investments.
08 27.6% 26.5% 04 04 7.3 7.0 Why it’s important 3.8 3.7 3.8
06 03 This measure shows the cash we 03
15.6% 2.6 generate that is available to return 04 3.6 02 2.0 to shareholders or reinvest in the 02
business, as well as our effectiveness in
02 01 01
converting our earnings to cash through
0 2012 2013 2014 0 2012 2013 2014 effective working capital control and 0 2012 2013 2014
investment discipline.
A Reported growth CER %
B Reported growth £ %
sdnediviD sdnediviD sdnediviD
How we performed
Key performance indicators
We measure our performance against a number
of key performance indicators.
* excluding divestments completed in 2013 * excluding divestments completed in 2013
Core operating profit and margina
£6.6bn How we performed
Core operating profit was £6.6 billion.
Excluding currency effects, core
operating margin declined 0.8
A (4) – (6)* percentage points to 28.7%, primarily
reflecting an increase in SG&A as B (6) (3) (15)* a percentage of sales despite the 6.3
2% decline in actual sales.
12
5.2
Why it’s important
10 31.2% 30 8.4 .0%* O opu er r o ab tinje gc t leiv ve e rre agm ea i tn os e t no s i um rep r oo pv ee r ating 4.1
08 8.2 7.8* 28.7% profit growth performs ahead of sales
6.6 performance. The margin indicates
06
how costs are being managed as a 04 percentage of sales.
02
0 2012 2013 2014
A Reported growth CER % A Reported growth £ %
B Reported growth £ % * excluding divestments completed in 2013
Core earnings per sharea Total earnings per share
95.4 Definition 57.3 How we performed
p Core results exclude a number of items p Total earnings per share was 57.3p,
from total results. A full definition of compared with 112.5p in 2013 primarily
core results can be found on page reflecting non-cash adjustments to the
A – 4 (1)* 52 and a reconciliation between core A (9) 27 (40) contingent consideration in relation to
results and total results is provided ViiV Healthcare as a result of higher
B (3) 1 (12)* on page 61. B (12) 23 (49) sales outlook for Tivicay and Triumeq
as well as an unfavourable comparison
150 How we performed 150
with product and asset disposal gains
Core EPS decreased 1% (CER)
125 112.2 compared with a 3% (CER) decline 125 in 2013.
111.4 108.4* in turnover as a result of cost and 112.5
100 95.4 financial efficiencies. 100 91.6
75 Why it’s important 75
Earnings per share is a key indicator 57.3
50 of our performance and the returns 50
we are generating for shareholders.
25 25
0 2012 2013 2014 0 2012 2013 2014
A Reported growth CER % A Reported growth CER %
B Reported growth £ % * excluding divestments completed in 2013 B Reported growth £ %GSK Annual Report 2014 15
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
New Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines
Group turnover Turnover in our major growth areasb New product approvals in major markets product performanceb
£23.0bn How we performed £12.3bn Definition 4 approvals Definition £1.5bn Definition
Turnover was down 3%, excluding This measure focuses on major growth Major market is defined as USA, New products launched in the last
divestments in the prior year. Lower areas: Vaccines, Consumer Healthcare, EU and/or Japan. five years on a rolling basis. In 2014
Pharmaceutical and Vaccines Emerging Markets and Japan. the following products were no longer
How we performed
A (1) 1 (3)* sales in the US and in Established A 54 53 53 How we performed First regulatory approvals for A 34 33 84 included in the calculation: Arzerra,
Products only partly offset by growth Lamictal XR, Potiga, Prolia, Votrient.
B (3) – (10)* in Emerging Markets, Japan and ViiV W groe w s ta hw i nc Eon mti en ru ge ind g P Mha ar rm kea tc s e au nt dic Ja als p an. 07 T Ea lln ipz te au am n, d I n Tc rir uu mse e qE .llipta, Arnuity How we performed
Healthcare. Consumer Healthcare
3 20 5 26.4 22 56 .. 65 * 23.0 s W Aa h kle eys y i tw o’s be jr i eme c l p to ivow ere t oar. fn ot ur strategy is to 1 18 5 14.3 11 34 .. 51 * V w s inaa e tl ec er rec s r i u bn w pe r eo ts ira o ea d n n il smyd . fl pC a ato c. n tC es dou m n bs ye u r sm H ue pe r pa H ll yt eh ac la thre c are 00 56 6 W T orhh gisy a nmit is’ es aa ti s im ou nrp e o i ssr ht da o en w lit vs e h rio nw g nth ee w R p& roD d ucts 1 1. .5 250 1.4 1.4 1.5 S i 8 tn u%a r2 nle 0 oos 1 vf 4 eo P rf , h . gn ae r rew mw ap c8r eo 4 ud % tu i cc a at ns ld aw nree dpr e Vr e a£ s c1 e c. n5 int e eb d sil lion
20 deliver sustainable, broadly-sourced 12 12.3 04 4 to drive the growth of the Group. 1.00
Why it’s important Why it’s important
sales growth.
15 09 This highlights progress in delivering 03 0.75 This measure shows the delivery of
our strategy to create broad-based sales in each year from products
10 06 sales growth that is more resilient 02 2 0.50 launched in the prior five years on a
to volatility. rolling basis, and creates incentives
05 03 01 0.25
for improved R&D performance.
0 2012 2013 2014 0 2012 2013 2014 0 2012 2013 2014 0 2012 2013 2014
A Reported growth CER % A % share of total turnover A Reported growth CER %
B Reported growth £ %
Total operating profit and margin Free cash flowb Cash returned to shareholders
£3.6bn How we performed £2.6bn Definition £4.1bn How we performed
Total operating profit was £3.6 billion. The calculation of free cash flow During 2014, GSK returned £4.1 billion
Excluding currency effects, the is described on page 52 and a to shareholders via dividends and share
total operating margin declined 9.4 reconciliation is provided on buy-backs.
A (3) (1) (40) percentage points to 15.6%, primarily A (51) >100 (44) page 68. The calculation of CER A 13 (18) (21) Why it’s important
reflecting higher SG&A costs, lower is described on page 52. B (6) (4) (49) profits on the disposal of business and B (17) 2 (30) How we performed 07 W dive id c eo nn dt in gu roe w to th f o oc veu rs to hn e d loe nli gv e teri rn mg and
products, and non-cash adjustments to
12 06 Free cash flow was £2.6 billion. The 06 returning free cash flow to shareholders
the contingent consideration in relation
decline reflecting the impact of the through share buy-backs where this
10 to ViiV Healthcare as a result of higher 05 strength of Sterling and lower profits, 05 offers a more attractive return than
sales outlook for Tivicay and Triumeq. 4.7 including the impact of divestments. alternative investments.
08 27.6% 26.5% 04 04
7.3 7.0 Why it’s important 3.8 3.7 3.8
06 03 This measure shows the cash we 03
15.6% 2.6 generate that is available to return
04 3.6 02 2.0 to shareholders or reinvest in the 02
business, as well as our effectiveness in
02 01 01
converting our earnings to cash through
0 2012 2013 2014 0 2012 2013 2014 effective working capital control and 0 2012 2013 2014
investment discipline.
A Reported growth CER %
B Reported growth £ %
sdnediviD sdnediviD sdnediviD
6.3
5.2
4.1
A Reported growth £ % A Reported growth £ %
B Growth excluding legal settlements £ %
Total earnings per share
Footnotes
57.3 How we performed a We use a number of adjusted measures to report the performance of our b The remuneration of our executives is linked to the marked key indicators.
p Total earnings per share was 57.3p, business. These include core results, which are used by management for Further information on our executive pay policy can be found in our
compared with 112.5p in 2013 primarily planning and reporting purposes and may not be directly comparable with Remuneration policy report on page 119.
reflecting non-cash adjustments to the similarly described measures used by other companies. A reconciliation of
A (9) 27 (40) contingent consideration in relation to core results to total results is set out on page 61.
ViiV Healthcare as a result of higher
B (12) 23 (49) sales outlook for Tivicay and Triumeq
as well as an unfavourable comparison
150 with product and asset disposal gains Relative total shareholder return table is on page 107.
125 in 2013.
112.5
100 Responsible business: external benchmarking
91.6
75
57.3
50
25
0 2012 2013 2014 First in 2014 Access to Medicine Retained our position in CDP’s Member of FTSE4Good Scored 84% in the Dow
Index and have topped the bi-annual FTSE 350 Climate Disclosure since 2004. Jones Sustainability Index,
A Reported growth CER % index since it began in 2008. Leadership Index for the seventh year. putting GSK in top 2% of
B Reported growth £ % our sector.16 GSK Annual Report 2014
Strategic
report
Governance
& remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Risk management
Our approach to risk
Rigorous risk management processes and
systems help us assure the integrity of our
business operations.
We are committed to conducting business In Europe and Emerging Markets we the review and are implementing any
in accordance with all applicable laws and initiated a wide-ranging review of our required improvement plans to address
regulations and in a manner that is internal controls to confirm that our risks and strengthen controls. We have also
consistent with our values. We have an company standards, local laws and continued to satisfy our Corporate Integrity
established risk management framework to regulations are understood and adhered to. Agreement obligations for the Office of the
address operational, legal and compliance All countries in these regions took part in Inspector General in North America.
risks, both those inherent to the nature of
our business and those specific to our
Our internal control framework
strategic ambitions. Risk management,
c heo lu pp sl e ud
s
w mi ath
in
o tau ir
n
in ot ue rr n foa cl uc so n ot nr o pl rf ora dm uce tw ork
E
nterprise Oversight
Our internal control
quality, safety and sustainability. Independent Assurance f wra itm
h
e ow uro vrk a,
l
uin
e
sc ,o hn eju lpn sc t ti oo n
H C c
u W
vanoo o ledn uw m t
e
ear p
r
so rw
p
ea -ls ie
b
n
n
c, ay om t
o
sop
mu
ega o
r
dmn e l ai ta c biph tg i
t
ue e
p
ee ss r
r d
i
o, nwr tasi eos it ct
s
ak h
h b
sn eoa td
ao
iuc
n
na rr
r
gr
d
o id c
s
s
a
os o ks
u
m ra
m e
rG n p
s
lad eaS
pn
an oiK an dy
ng
t ee v
se
rar
im
sbn l u la
ae
eel
rn ,
es
t .
DisI
ci
Epn
l ni
fond
re c
e eap
mn
ede ntnden At sB seu R ss i ss mi kn ee ns ts M &o CSn
ot
nai tnt rodWo
lsar
rr
i
dti sten ng e m o
W i cn
on u sa
e
ns r pn u db
a
ear uu
r
cge
e
cs te
i
tt i
os
enh r
u n
deia s
b s
t sk
b
js
e
aw s
y
nc
ae a edtc s xe tt
ao
t
f i ew v
u
f re i de ntc i
i
ae tct
s
li s ov .e nl dy u ct
responsible for embedding this into our Business parties, including regulatory
c
E
suu
n
sl st tu
u
ar
r
ie
i
nn,
a
gd
b
e
p
ilc
ir
toi ys
d
i ao
u
rn
c
e
t
m
fq
ua nuk dai ln aitg
my ,
ea
s
nn
a
td
f ae
lh
t
tyo
o
w
a on
w
ud
re work. ot P
ro blem
seR sp
o nding
Activities Training a
a
cg
d
oe
e
nn
q
trc
u
oi
a
le
c
fs
ry
a, mt oo
f
e
a
o
ws
u
os
r
re
i
kns
.t
s
e
W
rt nh eae
l
b Eu ms pin loe ys es
e
m
s
o ad ree l a.
ccountable for working
M Ma on na itg oe rm ine gnt Communication a f tr ac o kt m eiv e athl py e
p
a s rd oed par rce iats i tvs ei tfi cien osd
r
ri an eng cd ts
i v e
to established standards and for identifying
actions to improve our
and escalating encountered risks so that
internal controls across
they can be appropriately managed. The the Group.
company has comprehensive learning
programmes to ensure employees are GSK Values
suitably trained including mandatory
Key
training on the GSK Code of Conduct Individual Accountability
and Anti-Bribery and Corruption policies. Line Management Accountability with Compliance
Business Management Accountability with Compliance
Progress in 2014 Audit & Assurance
We have learnt lessons from compliance Board of Responsible for our system of corporate
issues experienced over recent years and Directors governance, strategy, risk management and
financial performance
continue to look for ways to strengthen
further our internal control framework
so that we can more proactively manage Audit & Risk Responsible for reviewing and approving
our Principal risks. For example, Committee the adequacy and effectiveness of our risk
in China we have implemented a new management and internal controls
governance model, increased dedicated
compliance resources and put in place
Corporate Supports the CEO in managing our business
additional controls and monitoring local
Executive Team and activities
ways of working and financial transactions.
We have a central dedicated Anti-Bribery
and Corruption team who provide external
Risk Oversight Authorised by the Board to assist the Audit & Risk
insight, standards, training and expertise and Compliance Committee in overseeing the risk management
to our business globally. In 2014, we also Council and internal control activities of the Group
strengthened our internal investigations
team to create three regional hubs to provide
a consistent approach to investigations Business units Responsible for identifying, assessing
across the group, allowing us to respond and managing risks within their businesses
more quickly and consistently to
emerging issues.
We have enhanced our approach to Risk Management Ensure that appropriate internal controls
independent business monitoring to detect and Compliance for effective risk management are implemented
abnormal or inappropriate financial flows Boards Complemented by Country Executive Risk Boards
better within Europe and Emerging Markets. to ensure a consistent approach to risk management
across local geographies
gnirotinom
rof
ytilibatnuoccA
gnitnemelpmi
rof
ytilibisnopseR
Governance structure of risk managementGSK Annual Report 2014 17
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Principal risks
The Principal risks listed below are those we believe could cause our results to differ materially from expected and historical results.
They are not listed in order of significance. A full description of the definition, context, potential impact and mitigating activities for
these Principal risks is set out on pages 232.
Principal risk Definition How we manage risk
Patient safety Failure to appropriately collect, review, follow up, The Chief Medical Officer leads a large Global
or report adverse events from all potential sources, Safety and Pharmacovigilance team and maintains
and to act on any relevant findings in a timely applicable global policies to guide staff worldwide.
manner.
Intellectual property Failure to appropriately secure and protect Our Global Patents group continually analyses and
intellectual property rights. ensures that changes in patent laws and regulations
are incorporated into its processes for obtaining,
maintaining and enforcing global patent protection.
Product quality Failure to comply with current Good Manufacturing Our Chief Product Quality Officer leads our
Practices or inadequate controls and governance global network of Quality Councils, implements
of quality. applicable policies and assures our single Quality
Management System that defines quality across
our businesses.
Supply chain continuity Failure to deliver a continuous supply of compliant We closely monitor the inventory status and
finished product. delivery of our products to help ensure that our
customers have the medicines, vaccines and
consumer products they need through the Supply
Chain Governance Committees.
Financial reporting Failure to report accurate financial information Our internal controls over financial information
and disclosure in compliance with accounting standards and and reporting are overseen by regional management
applicable legislation. and then reviewed with the Financial Controller
and the Chief Financial Officer (CFO), and our
external auditors.
Tax and treasury Failure to comply with current tax law or incurring Tax risk is managed by a set of policies and
significant losses due to treasury activities. procedures to help ensure consistency and
compliance with tax legislation. Where appropriate
we engage advisors and legal counsel to review
tax legislation and the applicability to our business.
Anti-Bribery and Failure to comply with applicable local and We have an extensive global ABAC programme,
Corruption (ABAC) international ABAC legislation. policy and procedures overseen by a top-level
ABAC Oversight Committee. As part of the
programme, significant training is provided to
employees globally regarding anti-bribery and
corruption and compliance with the Group’s
ABAC policies.
Commercial practices and Failure to engage in commercial and/or scientific We have harmonised policies and standards
scientific engagement activities that are consistent with the letter and which govern promotional activities and Scientific
spirit of legal, industry, or the Group’s requirements Engagement undertaken by the Group or on its
relating to marketing and communications about behalf. Employees worldwide are trained on the
our medicines and therapeutic areas. policies and implications for failure to comply with
such policies.
Research practices Failure to protect and inform patients involved in We implement systems of governance and
human clinical trial research and, generally, to controls to oversee our clinical trial research,
conduct clinical trials in compliance with law. use of biological samples, and data integrity
in all of our key systems.
Environment, health & Failure to manage EHSS consistent with the We have Global EHSS Standards which support
safety and sustainability Group’s objectives, policies and relevant laws our EHSS policy and are overseen by members of
(EHSS) and regulations. the CET. Employees globally are routinely trained
on the Group’s EHSS policies.
Information protection Failure to protect and maintain access to critical Our Chief Information Security Officer oversees
or sensitive computer systems or information. our global information policy and programme and
regularly assesses changes by closely monitoring
our systems and through external briefings.
Crisis and continuity Inability to recover and sustain critical operations We have established a Crisis and Continuity
management following a disruption or to respond to a crisis Management (CCM) governance board and
incident in a timely manner. a team of CCM experts to ensure critical business
operations have crisis and continuity plans in place.
Third-party oversight Failure to maintain adequate governance and Our Chief Procurement Officer oversees our policy
oversight over third-party relationships. framework governing how we buy goods and services
and management of third-party relationships.18 GSK Annual Report 2014
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Our businesses
We have leading capabilities in
Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and
Consumer Healthcare, driven
by science-led innovation.
Innovative science is at the forefront of all we do, whether
that is investigating potential new treatments for respiratory
patients or conducting research to develop the world’s first
malaria vaccine. Rhiannon (pictured) works in our laboratory
in Ware, in the UK, researching potential treatments for
leishmaniasis – a disease that currently affects around
12 million people in some of the world’s poorest countries.GSK Annual Report 2014 19
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information20 GSK Annual Report 2014
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines
Growth in Emerging Markets, Japan and
ViiV Healthcare was offset by a challenging
environment in the USA.
We have leading Pharmaceuticals and Our HIV business is managed through Vaccines
Vaccines businesses, underpinned by ViiV Healthcare, a global specialist Our Vaccines business is one of the largest
a substantial R&D organisation. We have company in HIV that we majority own, in the world. We have a broad portfolio of
a significant commercial presence in the with Pfizer and Shionogi as the other over 30 paediatric, adolescent, adult and
USA, Europe, Japan and Emerging shareholders. ViiV Healthcare is now travel vaccines. Our four largest Vaccines
Markets. Since 2008, we have increased a leading global company in HIV and by sales are Infanrix (diphtheria and
our investment in emerging markets, which has had significant recent success with tetanus), Hepatitis, Rotarix (rotavirus)
now account for c. 19% of Group turnover, regulatory approval and industry leading and Synflorix (pneumonia).
up from c. 13%. In recent years we have launches of its dolutegravir-based
The Vaccines business is particularly
launched important new medicines and medicines, Tivicay and, the single-pill
strong in the developing world – of the
vaccines in respiratory, HIV, oncology, treatment Triumeq. ViiV Healthcare has
vaccines we produce, over 80% are
diabetes and influenza. a number of other antiretroviral medicines
distributed in developing countries, which
in clinical development, including
Pharmaceuticals includes the least developed, low and
cabotegravir. For more detail see Our Pharmaceuticals business develops middle income countries.
ViiV Healthcare on page 31.
and makes medicines to treat a broad
Our ‘tiered pricing’ approach, based on
range of acute and chronic diseases. Beyond respiratory and HIV, we have
countries’ Gross National Income, enables
Our portfolio is made up of innovative a portfolio of other Pharmaceutical
countries to maintain and expand their
and established medicines and we have products for the treatment of conditions
commitment to immunisation as their
leading global positions in respiratory such as lupus (Benlysta), benign prostatic
economies grow. GSK is also one of the
disease and HIV. hyperplasia (Avodart/Jalyn), type 2 diabetes
largest contributors to Gavi, the Vaccine
(recently launched Tanzeum/Eperzan) and
We have been a leader in respiratory Alliance, a public-private partnership to
bacterial infections (Augmentin).
disease for over 40 years and have a improve access to vaccines in developing
portfolio of mature products such as Over the past six years we have built a countries. By 2020, 22 countries with
Seretide/Advair, Ventolin and Flovent. significant oncology business. In recent growing economies will graduate from
In recent years, we have strengthened and years we have had multiple regulatory Gavi support. In January 2015, we
broadened our respiratory portfolio with approvals and global product launches announced a 10-year price freeze
the addition of new medicines Relvar/Breo including Tykerb/Tyverb, Votrient, to Gavi graduating countries.
Ellipta, an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) and Promacta/Revolade, Arzerra, Tafinlar
The proposed Novartis transaction will
long-acting beta agonist (LABA) and Mekinist.
2 further strengthen our Vaccines portfolio
combination, Anoro Ellipta, a long-acting
As part of the proposed Novartis through the acquisition of Novartis’s
muscarinic antagonist (LAMA) and LABA
transaction, we have agreed to divest our vaccines business (excluding influenza),
dual bronchodilator, Incruse Ellipta (LAMA)
marketed oncology portfolio, related R&D adding a number of vaccines for meningitis
and Arnuity Ellipta (ICS).
activities and rights to our AKT inhibitors and several travel vaccines, as well as
We have a number of other respiratory currently in development for $16 billion. strengthening our manufacturing network.
products in our pipeline, including This represents a unique opportunity to The combined business will also benefit
mepolizumab, an investigational anti-IL5 crystallise value for shareholders and from increased exposure in key markets
monoclonal antibody, to treat severe leverage the global scale that Novartis such as the USA where Novartis has a
eosinophilic asthma, and our ‘closed’ has in this therapy area to improve strong presence and track record of
triple combination treatment to treat patient outcomes. regulatory approvals. The proposed
COPD. We remain confident that we Novartis transaction will further enhance
In addition, we have an Established
can maintain our leadership in respiratory GSK’s vaccine R&D pipeline bringing
Products Portfolio (EPP) which includes
disease well into the next decade. together expertise in virology, bacterial
over 50 off-patent products, as well as our
infection and different adjuvant platforms.
branded generics business and other local
products. These products are an important
part of our Emerging Markets business
where the GSK brand is an important
differentiator.GSK Annual Report 2014 21
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Sales of hepatitis vaccines were down Vaccines sales in Europe fell 2%, with
Grow
6% to £234 million due to supply lower sales of Infanrix, Cervarix and
constraints. Boostrix was down 7% flu vaccines reflecting increased
Our strategy remains to grow the business
to £163 million due to a competitor competitive pressures, which were only
through broadly based sales. Challenging returning to the market during the year partly offset by sales growth in other
trading conditions in 2014, most notably in
and some supply constraints. Rotarix products such as Boostrix, which was
the US, meant Group turnover declined 3%
sales declined 16% to £86 million as up 26% due in part to a competitor
to £23 billion. However there were positive
a result of a CDC stockpile withdrawal supply issue in the first half of the year.
performances for the year in Emerging
during Q4 2014.
Markets and Japan, while Europe was flat. In Emerging Markets, Pharmaceuticals
In Europe, Pharmaceuticals and and Vaccines turnover increased 5%
Regional performance
Vaccines turnover was flat at £4,035 to £3,203 million, with Pharmaceuticals
Global sales of our Pharmaceuticals
million. Pharmaceutical sales were flat up 7% and Vaccines up 1%. Most markets
and Vaccines fell by 4% in 2014 to
at £3,057 million, as strong growth in outside Asia showed strong growth, with
£18,670 million. Pharmaceuticals
Oncology sales (up 29% to £417 million), notable performances from Brazil (up
turnover declined 5% as growth in
led by Votrient, Promacta and the newly 12% to £380 million) and the rest of
Emerging Markets, Japan and ViiV
launched Tafinlar and the Avodart Latin America (up 9% to £593 million).
Healthcare was more than offset by franchise (up 8% to £280 million) was Sales in China fell 1% due to the effects
lower sales in the US and in Established
offset by a 3% fall in Respiratory sales of the government investigation during
Products. Pharmaceuticals sales in Europe
to £1,675 million. While newly launched the year. There was continued growth
were flat in 2014. Global Vaccines sales
Relvar Ellipta recorded sales of £18 million from Respiratory and Oncology products,
declined 1% due to lower reported sales
in the year, Seretide sales declined, down up 3% and 30% respectively, and the
in Europe and Japan. This was despite 5% to £1,330 million as a result of Avodart franchise, which grew 20%.
a positive performance from Emerging
increasing competitive pressures and In Vaccines, growth from strong tender
Markets. US Vaccines sales were flat
the transition of our respiratory portfolio sales of Boostrix, Rotarix and Synflorix
for the year.
to the newer products, particularly in was largely offset by lower sales of
In the US, Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines the latter part of the year. Cervarix, as a result of some lost tenders,
turnover was down 10% at £4,980 million, and some supply constraints.
with Pharmaceuticals down 12% and
Vaccines flat. Pharmaceutical sales were
impacted by continued price and
contracting pressures in the primary care
market, primarily affecting respiratory sales,
Putting patients and customers first
which were down 18%. Sales of Advair
were down 25% (14% decline in volume
and 11% decline from price and mix). We are fundamentally transforming and We are also investing in our own
We continue to increase access to our modernising the way we sell and market healthcare professionals and will stop
new portfolio of respiratory medicines. our medicines to meet the information paying external experts to speak on our
As at 1 January 2015, Medicare Part D needs of healthcare professionals and behalf about our prescription medicines
coverage for Breo Ellipta, was 74%, and ensure we put patients’ interests first. by 2016. Medical Science Liaisons or
65% for Anoro Ellipta. We are starting We believe these changes are not only (MSLs) are already stepping up to
to see some early indications of how the right thing to do but can be a deliver talks to physicians about our
increased coverage and our new portfolio competitive advantage for us. recently launched medicines in the US.
will help us regain market share and deliver One benefit of this new way of working
improved performance in respiratory GSK has led the industry by is that our internal experts may have
changing the way we reward our
Oncology products made a strong sales representatives – focusing on more direct knowledge of the clinical
contribution to US performance with sales the quality of the information we’re trials which led to approval of the
up 41% to £509 million, benefiting from sharing with healthcare professionals medicine. Customers who attended
good performances from Votrient and and overall business performance, talks about Anoro Ellipta delivered by
Promacta, and the recent launches of rather than individual sales targets. GSK’s medical staff have given these
Tafinlar and Mekinist. Sales of immuno- This approach has now been rolled-out presentations high marks, at times rating
inflammation treatment Benlysta grew to 150 countries where we operate. them even more effective than those
22% to £155 million. Generic competition In the USA, more than 10,000 led by external speakers. Thus far the
in the US continued to impact sales of healthcare professionals surveyed programmes are attracting the same
Dermatology products, which were down in 2014 ranked GSK first among number of attendees as the external-led
56% to £49 million. Mepron reported major pharmaceutical companies presentations of the past.
a sales decline of 49% to £40 million. on the value we bring. All of these changes allow us to continue
US sales of Infanrix/Pediarix vaccines to better meet the needs of healthcare
grew 15% to £297 million, benefiting from Our customers tell us we are a valuable professionals and their patients.
favourable CDC stockpiling compared with source of information and we want to
2013, and the absence of a competitor, provide that information in ways that
particularly in the first half of the year. better meet their needs. So we are
exploring digital and real-time channels
to provide information in the way our
customers want it, when they want it.22 GSK Annual Report 2014
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines
continued
In Japan, Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines
turnover grew 1% to £937 million,
with Pharmaceuticals sales up 2%,
while Vaccines were down 14%.
Pharmaceuticals sales benefited from
strong growth of our Oncology products
and Avodart, which were up 17% and 14%
respectively. This was partially offset by
lower sales in the Respiratory portfolio
(down 2%) which was in turn affected by
a weaker allergy season at the beginning
of the year and increased competitive
pressures. Our new prescription share has
increased to 56.5% following substantial
increases in new prescriptions for Relvar
Ellipta after the lifting of the ‘Ryotan’
prescribing restrictions. Sales for the year
for Relvar Ellipta were £17 million. Overall,
Respiratory sales fell 2% to £475 million.
The lower Vaccines sales reflected the
impact on Cervarix of the continued
suspension of the recommendation for use
of HPV vaccines, although higher sales of
Rotarix partly compensated for this.
Respiratory
We continue to develop and enhance
Leading the way in respiratory
our respiratory portfolio with new product
launches and we await FDA decisions
GSK has been at the forefront of many years than in the previous 15 years on Breo Ellipta for use in asthma and
advances in respiratory disease since combined, offering greater choice to mepolizumab, our first-in-class anti-IL5
the launch of Ventolin over 40 years ago. healthcare professionals and patients. treatment for severe asthma. Overall,
we continue to expect total sales of our
We have the broadest portfolio of These medicines add to the strength
respiratory portfolio to return to growth
marketed respiratory medicines globally, of our respiratory portfolio and with a
in 2016.
with the potential to add two further number of assets currently in late stage
‘first-in-class’ medicines in the development, we are confident that Respiratory sales in 2014 fell 10%
coming years. our respiratory pipeline will continue to £6,181 million during the year.
to deliver new treatment options that Seretide/Advair sales were down 15%
In 2014, we transformed our respiratory
are able to meet the evolving needs to £4,229 million, Flixotide/Flovent sales
pipeline and years of scientific research
of patients well into the next decade. fell 6% to £702 million while Ventolin sales
into approved medicines that have the
grew 11% to £665 million. Xyzal sales,
potential to benefit some of the millions Meanwhile we continue to work hard
almost exclusively made in Japan, were
of patients living with asthma and COPD. to ensure mainstay treatments such
During the year we gained approval for as Seretide and Ventolin, remain up 7% to £130 million.
Incruse Ellipta in the USA and Europe, important treatments for millions of In the USA, Respiratory sales fell by 18% in
and Arnuity Ellipta in the USA. We also patients across the world. We want the face of continued price and contracting
gained EU approval for Anoro Ellipta in to ensure these are accessed by the pressures in the market. Sales of Advair
Europe, following US approval in 2013. broadest number of patients, for were down 25% to £1,972 million (14% fall
This success builds on the approval of example, by reducing pack sizes to in volume and an 11% decline of price and
Relvar/Ellipta in 2013, which was the first enable smaller amounts to be mix). Flovent sales were down 6% while
medicine to be delivered in the Ellipta purchased and creating low-cost Ventolin sales were up 18%. Our newly
inhaler. This achievement was even more formulations. launched products, Breo Ellipta recorded
significant given that we amassed an sales of £29 million while Anoro Ellipta
We recognise that there is still much
unprecedented 37 regulatory approvals sold £14 million in the year.
more to be achieved to overcome the
for Relvar Ellipta in 2014.
global burden of respiratory disease.
We are committed to helping people Through our ongoing commitment and
with respiratory disease optimise their investment into scientific research and
treatment to achieve the best possible by working in collaboration with external
clinical outcome, and now we have experts, we will remain at the forefront
expanded our portfolio of respiratory of respiratory medicine. Only through
medicines, we are enabling clinicians this commitment and our scientific
to tailor treatment to patients’ individual leadership can we help transform the
needs. In fact the recent approvals lives of patients, enabling them to do
mean that we have launched more new more, feel better and live longer.
respiratory medicines in the past twoGSK Annual Report 2014 23
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
European Respiratory sales declined Other categories Vaccines
3%, largely due to increased competition. Sales in our Cardiovascular, metabolic Vaccines sales were down 1% at
Seretide sales fell 5% at £1,330 million and urology category were down 3% to £3,192 million for the year, although
(1% decrease in volume and a 4% negative £965 million for the year. The Avodart declines in Europe (down 2%) and Japan
impact of price), as a result of increasing franchise grew 1% to £805 million, with (down 14%) were partly offset by growth
competitive pressures and the transition a 17% increase in sales of Duodart/Jalyn, of 1% in Emerging Markets, while sales in
of our Respiratory portfolio to the newer although Avodart sales declined by 4%. the USA were flat. Emerging Markets were
products in the latter part of the year. Sales of Levitra fell 28% to £100 million helped by the strong performances of
Relvar Ellipta recorded sales of £18 million in the year, while sales of Prolia were Synflorix, Boostrix and Rotarix.
in the year. down 10% to £41 million, following an
Infanrix/Pediarix grew 2% to £828 million,
agreement with Amgen to terminate joint
Respiratory sales in Emerging Markets with growth in the USA offset by sales
commercialisation in selected markets.
grew 3%. Sales of Seretide were up 3% decline in Europe and Emerging Markets.
to £400 million, helped by an improved Regionally, sales in the USA were Boostrix sales increased 16% to £317
performance in China. Sales growth for down 16% to £364 million, although million, with growth in all regions except
Ventolin (up 8% to £165 million) and Emerging Markets grew 20% to £145 the US, where sales fell 7% largely due
Veramyst (up 15% to £73 million) was million while Japan also grew with sales to the return of a competitor product.
offset by Flixonase, sales of which fell up 14% to £114 million. Europe was flat
Rotarix sales grew 7% to £376 million,
33%, largely due to a sales decline at £293 million.
driven by tender shipments in Europe and
in China.
Sales of our Immuno-inflammation Emerging Markets, although there was a
In Japan, Respiratory sales fell 2% to products grew 40% to £214 million, helped decrease in the USA, which was impacted
£475 million. Sales of £17 million for by a 25% sales increase for Benlysta to by a CDC stockpile withdrawal in the fourth
Relvar Ellipta offset the impact of £173 million for the year. Our other therapy quarter. Synflorix sales were also up, 4%
increasing competitor action on Adoair, areas were down 2% to £2,407 million, to £398 million, mainly due to a strong
which fell 6% to £228 million. The growth largely reflecting generic competition tender performance in Emerging Markets.
in Xyzal, up 8% to £114 million, was more to Dermatology products.
Sales of our hepatitis vaccines fell 6%
than offset by lower sales elsewhere in the
Established Products to £558 million, partly due to supply
Respiratory portfolio. However, our new
Sales of our Established Products fell 16% constraints affecting the US and Emerging
prescription share has increased to 56.5%
to £3,011 million. Generic competition to Markets. Fluarix and FluLaval sales were
following substantial increases in new
Lovaza (down 57% to £240 million), down 9% at £215 million due to lower
prescriptions for Relvar after the lifting
Seroxat/Paxil (down 19% to £210 million) production levels for 2014 and increased
of the ‘Ryotan’ prescribing restrictions.
and Valtrex (down 24% to £154 million), competition. Cervarix sales declined 26%
Oncology all contributed to the fall in this category. to £118 million in 2014, largely due to a fall
Oncology sales grew 33% to £1,202 million in sales in Emerging Markets and Japan as
Regionally, sales in the USA were down
for the year with contributions from well as increasing competitive pressures.
31% to £854 million, while sales in Europe
Votrient (sales up 33% to £410 million) and
and Japan fell 13% to £601 million and
Promacta (sales up 34% to £231 million).
15% to £444 million respectively. In
Sales of Arzerra fell 24% to £54 million,
Emerging Markets, the performance of this
while Tykerb/Tyverb sales declined 11% to
category declined 1% to £1,050 million.
£171 million. New launches compensated
for generic competition to both Hycamtin
and argatroban, with Tafinlar and Mekinist
recording sales of £135 million and
£68 million respectively.
In the US, Oncology grew 41% to
£509 million with contributions from
Votrient (£181 million), Promacta
(£91 million), Tafinlar (£58 million)
and Mekinist (£67 million).
In Europe, Oncology sales grew 29%
to £417 million, led by Votrient, sales of
which were up 23% to £153 million, while
in Emerging Markets, sales were up 30%
to £169 million and in Japan, sales grew
17% to £65 million.24 GSK Annual Report 2014
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines
continued
New indications were also approved by Darapladib, also an investigational
Deliver
regulators for existing oncology medicines: cardiovascular medicine, was not
Arzerra as a first-line treatment for chronic successful in phase III studies and its
In 2014, our R&D organisation delivered
lymphocytic leukaemia, in combination with development has been terminated.
a number of new medicines and vaccines chemotherapy treatments in the USA and
for patients and expanded treatment Along with our partners MMV, we started
Europe; and Promacta in the USA as a
options through additional indications for a phase III study to investigate the safety
treatment for severe aplastic anaemia.
several existing products. We also filed a and efficacy of tafenoquine – a single-dose
number of late-stage assets with regulators HIV/AIDS investigational radical cure for Plasmodium
and significant new assets progressed ViiV Healthcare gained EU approval for vivax malaria. This form of the disease
to final stages of development. Tivicay (dolutegravir), an integrase inhibitor. occurs primarily in South and South East
This followed its approval in the USA in Asia, Latin America and the horn of Africa.
This progress gives us continued confidence
2013. Approval was also given for Triumeq
that our pipeline of potential new medicines In 2014 we also continued to pursue
in the USA and Europe in 2014. Triumeq
remains strong and sustainable, and can new indications for existing medicines.
is a single-pill regimen for the treatment
continue to deliver value for patients and Within Oncology, a phase III study began,
of HIV, combining dolutegravir with the
GSK. In Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines evaluating Promacta/Revolade in patients
nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors
we currently have around 40 new molecular with myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS), (NRTIs) abacavir and lamivudine.
entities (NMEs) in phase II/III clinical a type of cancer in which the bone marrow
development. Diabetes does not make enough healthy blood cells.
Tanzeum, a new GLP-1 treatment for type We also submitted regulatory files seeking
Product approvals in 2014
2 diabetes, received approval in the USA additional indications for this medicine –
Respiratory
offering a once-weekly injectable option severe aplastic anaemia in Europe
Within respiratory, Anoro Ellipta, our
for patients. The same product, under and chronic immune (idiopathic)
once-daily medicine combining two
the name Eperzan, was also approved thrombocytopenia (ITP) in the paediatric
bronchodilators – a long-acting muscarinic
in Europe. setting in the USA. A phase III study
antagonist (LAMA), and a long-acting beta
agonist (LABA) – in a single inhaler, was 2 Other pipeline newsflow of subcutaneous ofatumumab in patients
with pemphigus vulgaris, a rare autoimmune
approved in Europe for chronic obstructive Pharmaceuticals
skin disorder, also began.
pulmonary disease (COPD). This followed Regulatory files were submitted in the
its approval in the USA at the end of 2013. USA and Europe for our first biologic in We also submitted a regulatory file to
Incruse Ellipta, our first monotherapy LAMA, respiratory, mepolizumab, an investigational the EMA, for a variation to the marketing
was approved as a once-daily treatment for anti-IL5 monoclonal antibody administered authorisation for Volibris – our medicine
COPD, including chronic bronchitis and/or every four weeks to treat patients with for pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH)
emphysema, in the USA and Europe, and severe eosinophilic asthma. The same asset – to include its use in initial combination
launched in the USA in the first quarter of is also being evaluated in two phase III therapy in PAH patients.
2015. Finally, Arnuity Ellipta, a once-daily studies, one for the treatment of eosinophilic
Alongside these advances, in our late-
inhaled corticosteroid medicine to treat granulomatosis with polyangiitis (EGPA), a
stage pipeline we also see significant
asthma, was approved in the USA – the first rare disease characterised by widespread
potential for cabotegravir in HIV (see
asthma treatment from our new respiratory inflammation in the walls of small blood
page 32 for more information); sirukumab,
portfolio to have gained approval there. vessels (vasculitis) and as an adjunctive
an anti-IL6 monoclonal antibody for
All these respiratory medicines are therapy for adults who have severe COPD.
rheumatoid arthritis; ‘863, our prolyl
administered using our innovative,
Breo Ellipta, our once-daily fixed dose hydroxylase inhibitor for anaemia and an
patented dry powder inhaler, Ellipta.
combination of an inhaled corticosteroid ex-vivo stem cell gene therapy treatment
Oncology (ICS) and a long-acting beta 2 agonist, and potential cure for ADA-SCID, a rare
Mekinist, our MEK inhibitor, gained approved in the USA in 2013 for COPD, disease affecting children. This would be
European approval for the treatment of was filed in the USA as a treatment for GSK’s first product using cell and gene
BRAF mutant metastatic melanoma – asthma. We also announced the start therapy technology, a fast-moving area
the first medicine in its class to be licensed of a phase III programme to evaluate the of science and one which, we believe,
in Europe. This oral targeted therapy also efficacy and safety of our ‘closed’ triple has the potential to deliver a number of
received approval in the USA, under the combination treatment of a ICS/LAMA/ transformational medicines.
FDA’s accelerated approval process, for LABA in patients with COPD, the first to
Vaccines
use in combination with Tafinlar, a evaluate a once-daily triple combination
Within our Vaccines business, we
previously approved oral targeted therapy. treatment of an inhaled corticosteroid
announced pivotal phase III study results
This accelerated approval is contingent and two long-acting bronchodilators in
for our shingles candidate vaccine (HZ/su)
on the results of a phase III trial, which is a single inhaler.
that showed it reduced the risk of shingles
designed to evaluate the clinical benefits
A phase III study began to evaluate the by 97.2 % in adults aged 50 years and
of the combination. Positive overall survival
effects of losmapimod for acute coronary older compared with placebo. The study,
results were announced in February 2015
syndrome. Losmapimod is an inhibitor which started in August 2010, is ongoing
from the phase III COMBI-d study. These
of p38 mitogen activated protein (MAP) in 18 countries and involves more than
results will be submitted to regulatory
kinase, an enzyme understood to play 16,000 individuals. We are now evaluating
authorities for review.
a central role in the acute inflammation the filing strategy for this vaccine.
that occurs during a heart attack. It is being
developed as a short-term treatment to be
administered as quickly as possible after
a heart attack to reduce the risk of a
subsequent cardiac event.GSK Annual Report 2014 25
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
We reached a major milestone in the
development programme of our malaria
candidate vaccine, RTS,S, with the
submission of a regulatory file in July
to the European Medicines Agency
(see case study).
Since the Ebola crisis began in March
2014, GSK has been working closely
with the World Health Organization
(WHO), regulators and other partners to
respond to the outbreak and to accelerate
development of our investigational Ebola
vaccine. We are also contributing to the
overall humanitarian effort and taking steps
to support the small number of employees
we have in the region. In phase I studies,
our investigational Ebola vaccine
demonstrated an acceptable safety profile
and produced an immunological response
in healthy adult volunteers. It is now being
tested in a large phase III clinical trial
sponsored by the US National Institutes
of Health (NIH) in Liberia.
In April, we announced our decision to
stop development of an investigational
MAGE-A3 antigen-specific cancer
immunotherapeutic for the treatment of
non-small cell lung cancer, after a phase III
study failed to meet its efficacy endpoints.
Following a strategic review of our vaccines Submitting regulatory application for our candidate
immunotherapeutics unit which included
malaria vaccine
all available data, developments in the
current environment and the investigation
of additional technologies, we decided In July, we reached a major milestone RTS,S’s development involved one
not to pursue any new research efforts with the submission of a regulatory of the biggest vaccine trials ever
in antigen specific immunotherapy. application for our candidate malaria conducted in Africa. While a number
vaccine, RTS,S, to the European of additional steps still need to be
Early-stage pipeline
Medicines Agency (EMA). This is a key completed, we anticipate that the
In Pharmaceuticals we continue to see
moment in GSK’s 30-year journey to vaccine could be available for
substantial improvements in the novelty
develop the world’s first malaria vaccine. implementation in early adopter
of our early-stage Pharmaceutical research
This submission follows our 2013 SSA countries in 2017.
programmes with over 80% of our
announcement of phase III data showing
preclinical to phase II NME projects GSK has invested hundreds of millions
that RTS,S almost halved the number
having novel mechanisms of action. of dollars to date in RTS,S and the
of cases of clinical malaria in young
We are developing multiple early-stage programme has also received funding
children (aged 5-17 months at first
assets in therapeutic areas where we from the Bill & Melinda Gates
vaccination) in the 18 months after
see significant opportunity. In immuno- Foundation, while the international
vaccination.
inflammation, and specifically in diseases non-profit organisation PATH has
such as rheumatoid arthritis, inflammatory RTS,S is intended exclusively for use contributed financial, scientific,
bowel disease and psoriatic arthritis, against the Plasmodium falciparum managerial and field expertise to the
we have multiple assets in development malaria parasite, which is most prevalent development of RTS,S. We have
including a GM-CSF monoclonal antibody; in sub-Saharan Africa (SSA). Around committed that the price of RTS,S
a number of RIP 1 and 2 kinase inhibitors 90% of estimated deaths from malaria will cover the cost of manufacturing
and an IL-7 receptor monoclonal antibody. occur in SSA, and 77% of these are the vaccine together with a small return
In immuno-oncology, we have a range in children under the age of five. of around 5% that will be reinvested
of assets targeting haematological in R&D for second generation malaria
To date there is no licensed vaccine
cancers and solid tumours including vaccines, or vaccines against other
available for the prevention of malaria.
OX-40, iCOS, and TLR-4 as well as tropical diseases.
If a positive opinion from the
a cell therapy partnership with the
EMA is granted, the World Health
biotechnology company Adaptimmune.
Organization has indicated that
In cancer epigenetics we have three
a policy recommendation may
clinical programmes addressing the BET-i,
be possible by the end of 2015.
EZH2 and LSD-1 targets.
A positive opinion from EMA will
also be the basis for marketing
authorisation applications (NRAs)
in SSA.26 GSK Annual Report 2014
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines
continued
In Vaccines we continue to integrate some Collaborating with external partners has
Core Pharmaceutical investment
early-stage assets following our acquisition become a critical component of our R&D
of the biotechnology company, Okairos, in strategy in recent years. We are now
2013. The novel adenovector platform has involved in more partnerships with external
19% shown potential in diseases such as Ebola, companies, individuals and academics than 29%
hepatitis C and respiratory syncytial virus ever before, which enables us to access
(RSV). RSV is one of the remaining and increase our understanding of new
paediatric infectious diseases for which areas of science and to share the risk of
a vaccine does not yet exist and recent development.
phase I data for our vaccine candidate 52%
Our Pharmaceuticals R&D business
demonstrated the value of further
employs approximately 10,000 people.
exploratory work.
In 2014, our Pharmaceuticals core R&D Discovery
Pharmaceuticals R&D approach expenditure was £2.5 billion, a decline Development
Our Pharmaceuticals R&D business is of 4% compared to the previous year, Facilities and central support
a dynamic organisation which we believe resulting from execution of changes leading
has built a sustainable pipeline of innovative to continued efficiency improvements.
These nimble, personalised units are a
new medicines through its focus on
Early-stage research fundamental step away from the traditional
cutting-edge science.
In early-stage research (drug discovery) hierarchical R&D business model and help
We are highly selective with our R&D the crucial first step in exploring new us to maintain flexibility in our research
investments and concentrate only on areas medicines – and one of the greatest investment, while focusing on the most
where we believe the science presents us challenges – is to identify the biological promising scientific opportunities. They
with opportunities most likely to deliver mechanisms involved in the development have their own budget and so greater
significant medical advances. It is essential of diseases. We then create small accountability for their projects. Progress
that we continue to challenge the areas in molecules or biopharmaceuticals that against DPU business plans is regularly
which we work. Recognising this, in 2014, interact with these disease targets, reviewed by the Discovery Investment
we announced a programme to further ultimately leading to new medicines. Board (DIB), a group from senior R&D
sharpen the focus of our R&D activities, Through our own research and working and commercial management, alongside
eliminating areas of low probability of with external scientists we are making external individuals with life science
success. We also announced plans to progress improving our understanding investment expertise and an understanding
change our geographical R&D footprint by of disease targets, and believe this will of payer perspectives.
bringing our significant R&D operations improve the success rate for discovering
Late-stage development
together into two global centres – one in new medicines (see case study on p27). When a compound has demonstrated a
Philadelphia in the USA and the other in the
Our Discovery Performance Units potential proof of concept for how it works,
Stevenage area of the UK. We believe this
(DPUs) are responsible for discovery we must decide whether to advance it into
is vital to enable our scientists to work in
and development of potential new later-stage development. Our Portfolio
world-class facilities.
medicines through to early-stage clinical Investment Board (PIB) assesses the
trials (up to the completion of phase IIa). technical, commercial and investment
We have over 30 DPUs, each with between case for each project to progress in
5 and 70 scientists working on a particular development.
disease pathway or area of science.
Timeline and development stages for pharmaceutical research
Drug Regulatory Approval and Post-marketing
Pre-clinical Clinical trials discovery review launch surveillance
Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3
5,000-10,000
compounds
250 compounds
5 compounds
20-100 100-500 1,000-5,000
Number of patients 1 approved new medicine
3-6 years 6-7 years 0.5-2 yearsGSK Annual Report 2014 27
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
This stage is called ‘commit to medicine
development’ and typically takes place Harnessing advances in technology to drive
after phase IIa trials, when the compound
is tested in a small number of patients with drug discovery and development
a particular condition or disease. Then
there are phase III studies, which are
larger-scale studies in patients to further We continue to build scientific and Currently, an estimated 90% of
examine the compound’s efficacy and technical capabilities that enable us compounds entering clinical trials never
safety, often at different therapeutic doses to make better decisions earlier in drug reach patients as medicines. This is
to determine which may be most appropriate. discovery and development, increasing often because the biological target for a
If all of these stages are successful, we use our probability of success and reducing drug is not well understood – one of the
the results of these studies combined with our attrition rate. We have significantly greatest challenges in drug discovery.
other key scientific information to submit improved the proportion of high quality We need to understand better the
a regulatory file for review and possible drug candidates that progress to clinical mechanisms in our body related to
approval with regulatory agencies. development by ensuring we select disease to improve how we can develop
the best candidates and prioritising the most effective medicines.
At the same time, we work to optimise the resources to progress the most
compound’s physical properties and its promising potential medicines. CTTV scientists are combining their
formulation so that it can be produced expertise to explore and interpret large
efficiently and in sufficient quantities We are also capitalising on major volumes of data with the aim of improving
through the manufacturing process. technology advances to help our our ability to define the biological targets
In some cases, our research may include researchers take the crucial first step in a range of diseases. The Wellcome
developing new inhalers or other devices in exploring new medicines – finding Trust Sanger Institute is contributing its
to deliver these medicines. where to start. In 2014, we launched unique understanding of the role of
the Centre for Therapeutic Target genetics in health and disease. The
The responsibility for guiding an Validation (CTTV) with the European European Bioinformatics Institute is
investigational medicine through these later Bioinformatics Institute and the integrating huge streams of experimental
stages of development to filing rests with Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute – data to create bioinformatics insights.
our Medicines Development Teams (MDTs), a pioneering research initiative We are contributing expertise in disease
which are small units of 6 to 10 people. harnessing ‘big data’ and genome biology, translational medicine and drug
In Pharmaceuticals we now have 25 new sequencing to improve the success discovery. We have also made a
molecular entities (NMEs) in phase II/III rate for discovering new medicines. multi-million pound contribution to
clinical development. fund an initial wave of projects.
Governance
The length of time and costs involved in
drug discovery and development make
Investment in R&D
it essential that we are highly selective in
where we invest and focus our resources.
The R&D Executive Team has oversight
Focus on productivity We continue to improve the financial
of strategic issues and overall budget
We remain committed to improving efficiency of our R&D and in February
management across R&D, and a number
productivity in R&D, so we can develop 2014 announced an estimated IRR
of governance boards manage investment
more innovative new products with of 13%. We continue to target 14%
decisions through the life cycle of R&D and
greater efficiency. on a longer-term basis.
early commercialisation. These investment
decisions begin during the discovery Our R&D investment decisions are Our estimated IRR is an important
phase, with the DIB, and continue in the based on where we see the best measure of our financial discipline and
PIB as described earlier. opportunities, having considered patient our strategic progress to improve the
need, the market opportunity and economics of R&D. It also underpins our
PIB is co-chaired by the President of
scientific understanding. We believe strategy to create more flexibility around
Pharmaceutical R&D and the President
this is more effective than determining the pricing of our new medicines.
of Global Pharmaceuticals, and also
investment requirements on the basis
includes the heads of each Pharmaceutical Calculation of our most recent IRR for
of a fixed proportion of sales.
region along with the head of global 2013 included products launched from
manufacturing and legal counsel. R&D productivity is a key challenge 1 January 2012 to 31 December 2013
for our industry and we believe it is and compounds that were in phases IIb
Additional governance committees also
important to provide a greater level of and III of the development process at
assess technical, scientific, commercial
transparency regarding R&D decision year-end 2013. The calculation was
and investment decisions for projects
making and our R&D returns. based on actual sales from 2011 to
through development, into commercial
2013, and forecast sales up to 2034,
operations, and once a new medicine This rate of return for R&D is determined
adjusted to reflect expected failure rates,
has launched. by assessing the costs involved in
which are broadly in line with standard
discovering and developing late-stage
industry failure rates. The cost base
pipeline projects against the profits
used in this calculation comprised an
of medicines and vaccines as they
estimate of attributable R&D costs, and
are approved and launched.
actual and projected milestone payments
In 2010, we calculated that our where appropriate.
estimated R&D internal rate of return
(IRR) was 11% and stated a long-term
aim of increasing this to 14%.28 GSK Annual Report 2014
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines
continued
Vaccines R&D approach Discovery and development Oversight of these key decisions rests
Our vaccine R&D work focuses on The discovery and development of a new with two bodies. The Vaccine Development
discovering and developing new vaccine is a complex process that typically and Commercial Board (VDCB) and the
prophylactic and therapeutic vaccines takes between 10 and 12 years. Vaccine Vaccine Investment Board (VIB).
to help protect and treat people against discovery begins by identifying new
The VDCB reviews the research and
infectious diseases, cancers and chronic antigens, which are specific structures on
development project strategy and advises
disorders. We also look at life cycle pathogens (viruses, bacteria or parasites)
on its scientific, technical and commercial
management to maximise the potential of or on cancer cells that are recognised
opportunity assessment. It has an overall
existing vaccines, through broadening their by the immune system. We then produce
view of both early, advanced and life cycle
geographic availability, and advancing their these pathogens in yeast, bacteria or
development projects. All VDCB
formulation. This approach allows us to mammalian cells and genetically manipulate
‘recommendations to progress’ projects
increase the value our products can bring, them so that they can be purified and
from one stage to the next are submitted
by extending their reach and adapting them formulated into a vaccine. It is the antigen
to the VIB.
to ensure they meet the needs of patients. that creates the body’s immune response.
The VIB is co-chaired by our President
We manage and prioritise our investment In some cases, formulation of the vaccine
of Vaccines and the Chairman for Global
decisions to best meet the needs of our involves mixing antigens with GSK
Vaccines. This board makes the final
customers and help address some of the proprietary adjuvant systems. We use
decision on whether to invest in a project,
remaining global health challenges. Our adjuvants to improve the immune system’s
by evaluating the VDCB’s recommendation
core vaccine R&D investment in 2014 was response to antigens contained in vaccines
alongside public health benefit, business
£443 million, down 6% against 2013, this and we have been innovating in the area
opportunity, development costs and risks,
reflects our decision to stop development of adjuvant systems for more than 20 years.
project timing and overall evolution of our of MAGE-A3 (see page 25). We have more The formulations of candidate vaccines are
portfolio of vaccines.
than 2,000 scientists working across our usually a combination of several antigens,
vaccine R&D organisation and currently and the final composition of the vaccine
have 14 vaccines in development for a (antigens and adjuvant) may change
range of diseases. over time.
We also continue to explore the potential Governance
of some early stage assets acquired from There are several key decision points in
Okairos in 2013. The novel adenovector the vaccine development process: commit
platform complements our existing vaccine to research (decide to initiate full research
adjuvant technology and expertise, enabling programme) commit to candidate
us to continue our work developing the next development (decide to invest resources
generation of vaccines and may allow for towards exploring potential of vaccine in
the tackling of new diseases. number of clinical trials); commit to early
clinical development (phase I and II),
commit to phase III; commit to registration
and launch.
Vaccines research development cycle
Registration/
Identify Produce Pre-clinical Phase I Phase II Proof of Phase III File Post-marketing
antigens antigens testing concept surveillance
Research (including immunology)
Pre-clinical development
Clinical development (including post-marketing surveillance)
Transfer process to manufacturing
1-10 years 2-3 years 2-4 years >1 yearGSK Annual Report 2014 29
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Late-stage pipeline
Our pipeline remains extensive. A summary of Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines in phase III
and regulatory is set out below. A more comprehensive list of our medicines and vaccines
in phases I to III of development is available on pages 225 to 228.
Compound Indication US EU
Respiratory
Relvar/Breo Ellipta (FF/VI) Asthma Filed June 2014 Approved Nov 2013
vilanterol (VI) COPD Ph III Ph III
mepolizumab Severe eosinophilic asthma Filed Nov 2014 Filed Nov 2014
COPD Ph III Ph III
FF+UMEC+VI COPD Ph III Ph III
Vaccines
Nimenrix (MenACWY) MenACWY prophylaxis Ph II Approved Apr 2012
MAGE-A3 Melanoma Ph III Ph III
Herpes zoster Shingles prophylaxis Ph III Ph III
Mosquirix (RTS,S) Malaria prophylaxis n/a Filed July 2014
Oncology
Arzerra (ofatumumab) CLL (relapsed/relapsed maintenance) Ph III Ph III
NHL (FL) Ph III Ph III
Mekinist (trametinib) + Tafinlar Metastatic melanoma Approved Jan 2014 Ph III
(dabrafenib) in combination use Adjuvant melanoma Ph III Ph III
Promacta/Revolade Myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) Ph III Ph III
Severe aplastic anaemia Approved Aug 2014 Filed Nov 2014
Cardiovascular and metabolic
retosiban Threatened pre-term labour Ph III Ph III
losmapimod Acute coronary syndrome (ACS) Ph III Ph III
Immuno-inflammation
Benlysta (s.c.) Systemic lupus erythematosus Ph III Ph III
Benlysta (i.v.) Vasculitis Ph III Ph III
sirukumab Rheumatoid arthritis Ph III Ph III
Rare diseases
2696273 Adenosine deaminase severe combined immune deficiency Ph II/III Ph II/III
(Ex-vivo stem cell gene therapy) (ADA-SCID)
mepolizumab Eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis (EGPA) Ph III Ph III
Infectious diseases
tafenoquine Treatment and relapse prevention of Plasmodium vivax malaria Ph III n/a
Dermatology
ofatumumab (s.c.) Pemphigus vulgaris Ph III Ph III30 GSK Annual Report 2014
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines
continued
Manufacturing and supply Common processes
Simplify
GSK has 43 Pharmaceutical and Across our Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines
14 Vaccine sites in 26 countries making business we continued to streamline core
We are committed to reducing complexity
pharmaceutical and vaccines products, processes and boost efficiency. A key step
in our business. This helps us be more with more than 27,000 people involved has been the establishment of our Core
efficient and allows us to respond to the
in manufacture and supply activities. Commercial Cycle programme – a key
needs of patients and consumers more
enterprise-wide planning and decision-
quickly and effectively. Within our Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines
making process which brings together
manufacturing organisations, our aim is
Over the last few years we have commercial, finance and supply chain
consistently to deliver outstanding quality,
undertaken a broad range of restructuring to ensure we can meet the expected
service and value to our patients and
and simplification programmes across demand for our products.
customers.
the Group which have both reduced
Consolidation of our supply base also
operational complexity and delivered a total During 2014, the sales performances
helps to simplify our Pharmaceutical
of £3.5 billion in annual savings to date. of certain pharmaceuticals and vaccines
manufacturing and supply chain operations
were impacted by supply constraints.
Reshaping our business and during 2014 we reduced the number of
We have identified significant simplification Manufacturing network third-party suppliers who manufacture
and synergy opportunities for our We continue to review our global medicines on behalf of GSK, by a further
Consumer Healthcare and Vaccine pharmaceuticals manufacturing and 8%, compared with 2013. We have also
businesses when the proposed Novartis supply network to ensure effectiveness continued to reduce complexity in our
transaction completes. We are targeting and efficiencies. supply base by standardising specifications
total annual savings from the transaction for goods and materials that we buy and
During the year, we continued to invest of £1 billion by the fifth year from closing, pursuing integrated sourcing processes.
in our network to ensure capacity in key
including those related to oncology. We
areas. For example, in respiratory, we have We continued our initiative to reduce the
expect approximately 50% of this to be
committed to build a new manufacturing complexity of our Pharmaceutical product
delivered by year three.
facility in Montrose, Scotland, to provide portfolio, which allows us to simplify both
We are also undertaking a restructuring additional capacity for our newest supply chain and commercial operations
programme to refocus our global products, Relvar/Breo Ellipta, Anoro and reduce risk and complexity while
Pharmaceuticals business following Ellipta, Incruse Ellipta and Arnuity Ellipta. increasing service levels. In 2014, we
the divestment of our oncology products In antibiotics, we continued to invest in achieved a 19% reduction (against our
and the changing dynamics in the US manufacturing capacity for both active 2012 baseline) which equates to more
respiratory market and cost base. This will ingredients and the finished products. than 4,000 discontinued packs.
rescale our commercial operations, global In 2014, the site at Notre Dame de Commitment to quality
support functions and relevant R&D and
Bondeville in France left the network, We are strongly committed to meeting the
manufacturing across Pharmaceuticals and
a change that was announced in 2013. highest quality standards through stringent
is intended to improve our performance by quality control and quality insurance
establishing a more streamlined and agile End-to-end supply chain
processes. Our medicines and vaccines
business. We expect it to deliver annual Our end-to-end supply chain programme,
are manufactured according to current
cost savings of £1 billion over three years, which began in 2013, is designed to
Good Manufacturing Practice (cGMP)
with 50% of this expected in 2016. reform and simplify our supply chain.
regulations, the approved file which
In 2014, we introduced processes to
As part of this programme we will reshape includes our commitments to the authorities
improve coordination across each stage
our global Pharmaceutical operations to and our own internal quality standard
of production from sourcing and
create two franchises: Respiratory and procedures. Two GSK sites (at Cork in
manufacturing to more efficient delivery
Speciality Pharmaceuticals, which will Ireland and Ste. Foy in Canada) received
of our products to patients and consumers.
sit alongside our Established Products warning letters from the US Food and
Portfolio and other global businesses. In 2014, we introduced the GSK Production Drug Administration (FDA) this year.
The Respiratory franchise will continue System (GPS) across our Pharmaceutical We are taking comprehensive actions
to focus on our existing and emerging manufacturing sites. The GPS is a standard to resolve these issues.
respiratory portfolio, while the newly way of working to identify and eliminate
Procurement
created Specialty Pharmaceuticals the root causes of accidents, defects and
Our procurement organisation continues
business will comprise the late-stage waste. This standardised way of working
to support the delivery of greater value
pipeline assets and newly launched will improve our processes and performance.
from our external expenditure. The
global medicines in Cardiovascular, For example, at our site in Cairo, Egypt,
procurement savings performance on core
Metabolic and Neurosciences (CVM&NS), deployment of the programme has resulted
external operating expenditure increased
Immuno- inflammation & Infectious in a 26% increase in production with a
by 19% in 2014 from 2013. Additionally,
Diseases (II-ID), Oncology discovery decrease in manufacturing interruptions
in September, we launched category
and Dermatology. This will create a leaner of more than 40%.
councils comprising business, finance
commercial operation, simplify processes
and procurement leaders to further
and eliminate duplication.
enhance our procurement process and
accelerate performance. This will drive
the right rigour in buying decisions, help
strengthen our relationships with those
external partners who are a critical part
of our business and modify processes
that are causing inefficiencies.erachtlaeH
ViiV
,drawyaH
ytaK
:otohP
GSK Annual Report 2014 31
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines
ViiV Healthcare
The growing dolutegravir-based HIV portfolio that
includes Tivicay and Triumeq contributed to a very
strong year for ViiV Healthcare.
ViiV Healthcare is a specialist global
HIV company delivering advances in
treatment and care for people living with
HIV. Established in 2009, and majority-
owned by GSK, with Pfizer and Shionogi
as the other shareholders, the company
focuses 100% on HIV. ViiV Healthcare
delivered a very strong performance in
2014 and, having proven its ability to
deliver as a standalone company, GSK
has announced its intention to explore
the potential to undertake an initial
public offering of a minority share of
the ViiV Healthcare business.
Around 35 million people worldwide are
still living with HIV, according to latest
available figures from UNAIDS, and
1.5 million died from AIDS-related causes
in 2013. However, global efforts have
helped to reduce the rate of new HIV
infections by 38% since 2001 and
AIDS-related deaths by 37% since 2005.
Today, the disease is most prevalent in
sub-Saharan Africa with some 5% of the
adult population infected. With nearly
90% of all people infected with HIV living
in low-income countries and sub-Saharan
Africa, increasing access to treatment Increasing access to HIV treatments
is a priority.
Access to HIV treatments is a major For adults, the MPP collaboration
Grow
focus for ViiV Healthcare. During 2014, includes two approaches. First ViiV
the company supported people living Healthcare will apply the established
ViiV Healthcare turnover for 2014 was up with HIV in 139 countries through a royalty-free voluntary licensing to
15% at £1.5 billion. Growth generated by variety of approaches, to address the dolutegravir. Second, for specific
Tivicay and Epzicom/Kivexa, together with needs of people living with HIV in middle-income countries including
the newly launched Triumeq, more than different parts of the world. India, the company has established
offset the impact of generic competition the first-ever MPP licence with a tiered
to older ViiV Healthcare products, including The company offers royalty-free royalty structure, where a country pays
Combivir and Trizivir. Core operating profit voluntary licences and access pricing only a small percentage of the sale
grew 20%. ViiV Healthcare’s growth is in all low-income and least-developed price based on GDP.
outpacing the HIV global market growth countries and in all sub-Saharan Africa
of 12%. ViiV Healthcare’s core operating countries, where 70.5% of all people For children, ViiV Healthcare has
profit includes R&D costs, and excludes with HIV currently live. For middle-income granted MPP a voluntary licence in
non-core items such as the contingent countries, ViiV Healthcare takes a 121 countries for generic manufacturers
consideration payable to Shionogi in case-by-case approach based on the to develop paediatric formulations of
relation to sales of Tivicay and Triumeq. burden of the disease and GDP per dolutegravir without paying a royalty.
person. All its medicines, including
Tivicay recorded sales of £282 million those in the pipeline and new treatments In 2014, the company continued to
in 2014. Uptake of Tivicay has led the such as Tivicay and Triumeq, are support more than 300 community
industry in the USA and other markets covered by this access policy. projects worldwide through Positive
including Germany and Japan, compared Action, Positive Action for Children
with recent HIV medicine launches. In April, just months after approval Fund, Positive Action Southern Initiative
Sales of Triumeq, the new single-pill of Tivicay in the EU and USA, and the Paediatric Innovation Seed Fund.
treatment that was launched in the USA ViiV Healthcare announced new
in August and in some European countries collaborations with the Medicines
in September, were £57 million in 2014. Patent Pool (MPP) to increase access
Epzicom/Kivexa (abacavir, lamivudine) to dolutegravir in the countries where
grew by 8% to £768 million and 99% of the children and 93.4% of adults
Celsentri/Selzentry (maraviroc) was with HIV in the developing world live.
flat at £136 million.32 GSK Annual Report 2014
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines
ViiV Healthcare – continued
Regionally, sales in North America grew HIV treatment regimens often combine
Simplify
28%, driven by strong performances of three different antiretrovirals to improve
Tivicay and Triumeq as well as continued convenience for patients. Triumeq is
The decision to create ViiV Healthcare as
growth from Epzicom. Tivicay and Triumeq the only drug to combine dolutegravir
a company with a 100% focus on HIV has are performing strongly in the dynamic and NRTIs, abacavir and lamivudine,
allowed everyone in the company to be totally
segments (patients initiating and switching in a single-pill regimen.
dedicated to innovating for, and making
therapy), achieving a joint 18% share of
ViiV Healthcare entered a collaboration a difference to, people living with HIV.
treatment in naive patients, and 31% in
with Janssen in 2014 to develop a two-
switch patients. ViiV Healthcare has also maintained a
drug single tablet combining dolutegravir
nimble model through which, while being
In Europe, for the first time since ViiV with Janssen’s rilpivirine, a non-nucleoside
a specialist organisation focused on its
Healthcare’s creation, sales are growing reverse transcriptase inhibitor. The
core capabilities, it relies on relationships
faster than the market as a result of the research will compare the efficacy of
with its three shareholders, in particular
excellent performance of Tivicay this two-drug regimen compared to a
GSK, allowing them to operate in a
(approved in January 2014 and achieving three-drug regimen, in maintaining viral
simplified operating model.
reimbursements in most European markets), suppression for patients already virally
the successful initial uptake of Triumeq in suppressed on a three-drug regimen. Combining this model with a lean
countries where it has been launched, and management structure globally and locally,
In 2014, we also began two phase II studies
the continued growth of Kivexa. the company has reduced complexity and
on the experimental long-acting injectable
maximised efficiency. ViiV Healthcare pays
In the International region, sales also grew integrase inhibitor, cabotegravir, previously
for the services provided by the three
owing to the growth portfolio of Celsentri, known as GSK744. One of these studies
shareholders under arms-length contracts.
Kivexa and Tivicay, which now contribute is investigating the potential of cabotegravir
over two-thirds of the region’s revenue. for prevention in HIV negative men, the This model extends to how the organisation
Japan and Australia, which launched other, in combination with long-acting conducts research in partnership with
Tivicay in the second half of the year, rilpivirine, for the treatment of people living GSK’s HIV Discovery Performance Unit,
have seen particularly impressive sales with HIV. Cabotegravir offers the possibility pharmaceutical and biotech companies,
performances. of treatment via injection and might allow as well as academic researchers.
people to switch from daily oral use to a
monthly (or potentially less frequent) form
Deliver
of treatment.
There were important regulatory approvals
for our dolutegravir-based portfolio during
the year. Tivicay (dolutegravir) was
approved in the EU in 2014 following its
US approval in 2013. Triumeq, combining
dolutegravir with two nucleoside reverse
transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs), was also
approved in the USA and EU in 2014.
The innovative antiretroviral treatment,
Tivicay, is an integrase inhibitor used with
other antiretroviral medicines for treatment
of adults and adolescents living with HIV.
Tivicay’s clinical development programme
included people living with HIV who were
new to treatment (naive), as well as those
who had already been treated with other
HIV medicines (experienced) and those
who were infected with a virus that had
developed resistance to previously available
integrase inhibitors. The WHO has cited
dolutegravir as one of the long-term
developmental priorities for child
antiretroviral treatments.GSK Annual Report 2014 33
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Consumer Healthcare
Strong innovation and a focus on geographic
expansion and new routes to market have
led to continued growth in several key categories.
GSK’s Consumer Healthcare business In April, we announced a proposed major The new GSK Consumer Healthcare
is already among the largest in the world. three-part transaction with Novartis, which business will be geographically well
Our products reach millions of people once completed, will create a new joint matched with a strong presence in
every day in more than 100 countries, with venture Consumer Healthcare Company the US, emerging markets and in the
top-selling brands including Sensodyne, with significant scale and reach making CIS, Central and Eastern Europe.
Panadol and Horlicks. it one of the world’s largest Consumer The combined business will be a world
Healthcare companies, operating in leading Consumer Healthcare company
Across our four categories of Wellness,
markets estimated to grow at approximately with number one positions in specialist
Oral health, Nutrition, and Skin health,
3-4% per annum over the next five years. oral health and in OTC across 36 markets
our brands exist to help people to do more,
feel better and live longer.
Our Wellness category focuses on
pain management, respiratory health,
gastrointestinal health and smokers’ health.
Panadol is the top-selling paracetamol
brand globally and Tums is the #1 antacid
brand in the USA.
We are the global leader in specialist Oral
health, with leading positions in Sensitivity
(Sensodyne), Acid Erosion (Pronamel),
Denture Care and Gum Health.
In Nutrition, our Horlicks brand – over
140 years old – is the leading nutritional
supplement in the Indian subcontinent.
Finally, our Skin health brands Abreva
and Zovirax hold leading positions in Flonase Allergy Relief –
some of the world’s largest markets.
expanding access to proven medicines
Our focus is to combine the best of
our Pharmaceutical and Fast Moving
Our Consumer Healthcare business is Flonase contains the #1-prescribed
Consumer Goods (FMCG) capabilities
focused on helping more people all over allergy treatment ingredient as an OTC
to become the world’s first and best,
the world to improve their everyday health. treatment for temporary relief of the
Fast Moving Consumer Healthcare
symptoms of hay fever or other upper
(FMCH) company, driven by science One way we are doing this is by making
respiratory allergies. It is the first and
and values. To realise this vision, we our prescription medications (Rx)
only OTC nasal spray that provides relief
are implementing a strategy with five more easily available to consumers by
of both nasal and ocular symptoms.
key growth levers: switching them to over-the-counter (OTC)
Flonase inhibits six key substances that
products – an ‘Rx to OTC switch.’ By
• Building category defining brands our are part of the allergic response, unlike
removing the need for people to see their
consumers love. This means building most common OTC allergy pills that
healthcare professional in order to get strong global brands with leadership target one histamine alone.
the medicines they need, these switches
positions.
can reduce the overall cost of healthcare. In the USA, some 50 million people
• Improving lives through scientific In addition, Rx to OTC switches can suffer from serious nasal allergies, and
innovation with a strong pipeline enable people to manage a variety of an estimated 70% of them treat their
of new products. everyday health conditions themselves. symptoms with prescription or OTC
treatments. However, half of these
• Becoming first choice for shoppers, Over the past 20 years we have drawn on
sufferers report they are not completely
retail partners and experts. the specialist knowledge of the scientists
satisfied with their current method of
and researchers in both our Consumer
• Delivering high quality products treatment, presenting a significant
Healthcare and Pharmaceuticals
at the right time and cost. opportunity for GSK to provide an
businesses to make these switches
additional new option to consumers.
• Living our values and developing our possible, expanding access to widely-
people in a high performance culture. used products for Smokers’ health, We expect Flonase Allergy Relief to
Weight loss, Skin conditions and Pain. be a growth driver for the Consumer
Healthcare business in 2015, and to
We have now used our strong heritage
provide a well-established allergy
and scientific strength in discovering and
treatment to consumers as we continue
developing respiratory products used by
to launch the brand as an OTC product
patients worldwide to bring prescription
in more markets.
Flonase to consumers in the USA as an
over-the-counter medicine.34 GSK Annual Report 2014
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Consumer Healthcare
continued
and leading positions in skin health and In Wellness, sales were down 7% to
Deliver
family nutrition with key brands like £1,596 million, impacted significantly
Sensodyne, parodontax, Polident, Voltaren, by supply particularly in Smokers’ Health.
Our ‘innovation’ portfolio – comprising
Theraflu, Panadol, Otrivin, Horlicks, Zovirax Our Gastro-intestinal products grew 4%
new products or unique line extensions and Abreva. In total, the new company will and even though we were impacted by
launched in the last three years – is critical
have 19 major brands each with annual some supply constraints, ENO saw very
to the growth of our Consumer Healthcare
revenues in excess of US$100 million. strong growth in Emerging Markets,
business.
especially in India and Brazil. Pain
Approximately half of the business will be
management grew 2% driven by double- We are focused on creating a continued
OTC medicines creating the world’s #1
digit growth of Fenbid in China, but offset pipeline of new, scientifically differentiated
OTC business. The other half of the new
by some supply interruption to Bactroban products across our four categories,
company will comprise FMCG brands in
in China. launching over 50 new-to-market products
the areas of Oral health, Nutrition and
throughout the year. In 2014, our innovation
Skin health. With increased speed to Skin health sales were down 11% to
portfolio accounted for 12% of our
market and investment in new products, £310 million driven primarily by Bactroban
Consumer Healthcare global sales and
this business will have greater supply interruption in China. Physiogel
we invested £159 million in core Consumer
opportunities to deliver revenue growth sales were up 10%.
Healthcare R&D. consistently above market rates.
Regional performance
Our key innovation launches in 2014
At a regional level, the US business
Grow declined 8% to £836 million, impacted included Horlicks Kesar Badam,
Sensodyne True White, Sensodyne
by supply disruptions primarily in Wellness.
Complete, Pronamel Multi-Action and
Overall, Consumer Healthcare turnover Oral health grew 4% led by very strong sales
Fenbid 400mg sustained release.
was down 1% at £4,336 million in 2014. of Sensodyne and the successful launches
This was primarily a result of supply of Pronamel Multi-Action and Sensodyne Other major contributors to our innovation
disruptions, however we began to see Repair & Protect. sales, include Sensodyne Repair & Protect,
early signs of supply recovery in the fourth NiQuitin Flash Strips, Panadol Extra,
In Europe, sales fell by 5% to £1,242
quarter, with growth of 2% generating Panadol Advance and Zovirax Duo.
million. This was due to a combination
positive momentum for the business as
of factors including supply, competitive We continue to benefit from the scientific
we move into 2015.
pressures particularly in Oral health, strengths of our Pharmaceutical business.
Category performance and political disruption in Central and The US FDA approval of Flonase Allergy
Oral health sales grew 4% to £1,797 million. Eastern Europe, where market growth Relief allergy spray for OTC use was based
This was driven by strong growth of rates slowed during the year. on a New Drug Application (NDA) which
Sensodyne in Sensitivity and acid erosion included data from over 43 clinical studies
Our Rest of World markets including India,
which was up 11% and Gum health which and global post-marketing experience from
China, Latin America, Middle East and
grew 11%. In 2014, Sensodyne maintained prescription and non-prescription markets.
Africa were up 4% to £2,258 million despite
its leading position in the sensitive teeth
an overall slowdown in emerging markets. As part of our focus on ensuring
category, and consumption grew ahead of
Of particular note was our India business consumers are at the heart of our business,
the market in all regions. Growth was seen
which grew 12% during the year. Here, we this year we invested in the roll-out of a
across both emerging and developed
executed a successful re-stage of Horlicks new fully-integrated platform for single
markets with most notable successes in
focusing on its increased nutritional benefit point of consumer contact across phone,
China and North America. Sensodyne
if consumed every day and an improved social media and digital. This will allow
Repair & Protect and Sensodyne
formula which dissolves more easily in hot us to listen better and interact with our
Complete were key drivers in this growth.
and cold milk. We also launched a new consumers and to gather insights which
A combination of strong brand innovation
variant, Horlicks Kesar Badam (Saffron will ultimately drive product improvement,
and a successful marketing approach using
& Almond) in India, specifically designed marketing strategy and innovation. In 2014,
dentist testimonials continues to drive the
to meet the unique tastes of Indian we deployed this new platform in 47
brand’s success.
consumers. We continue to focus on new countries, collecting nearly two million data
Our Nutrition category grew 10% to routes to market, expanding our distribution points which led to the creation of multiple
£633 million, led by Horlicks and Boost model to better reach rural consumers with new marketing and promotional campaigns.
which grew 11% and 9% respectively, products from across our brand portfolio.
During the year we began the process
reflecting a strong innovation-driven This is helping to maintain Horlicks’ position
of adding the GSK branding to all of our
performance and continued focus on as India’s leading nutritional supplement.
Consumer Healthcare products and to
expanded rural distribution in India. Our Latin America sales were up 4% with strong
our advertising and promotional materials.
leading UK protein brand, MaxiNutrition, performances in Oral health and Wellness.
Research has shown this work has proven
was up 10% driven by strong innovation
value for our brands. We expect the
and increased distribution.
majority of our product packaging to carry
the GSK branding by the end of 2015.GSK Annual Report 2014 35
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Simplify
We have faced challenges during the year
with several of our Consumer Healthcare
manufacturing sites primarily in North
America. However, affected supply lines
are now fully operational and we expect
to see increasing benefit from resumption
in supply during 2015.
We have undertaken a comprehensive
operational review of our supply network
and are investing heavily in a multi-year
programme to ensure future sustainable
supply including improvements in systems
and capacity, more training for our people
and addition of new roles, particularly in
key areas such as quality and engineering.
We are also working to reduce our
exposure to single source supply.
In 2014, we continued to roll-out GSK’s
commercial Enterprise Resource Planning
(ERP) system across the Consumer
Healthcare business. This new platform
allows us to make better commercial
decisions and drive financial efficiencies
as we standardise and consolidate data,
Our innovative approach to rural distribution in India
forecast and plan on the same system,
save time and money on system
maintenance and upgrades, and become In Consumer Healthcare we are In the short span of three years we have
more efficient in how we do business constantly innovating to give our built a huge distribution network and
with our customers. With 11 Consumer consumers access to the widest today we cover 20,000 villages directly,
Healthcare markets added in 2014, 26% available range of high quality healthcare supplying products across our range
of global consumer healthcare revenue is products. We are committed to of Wellness, Oral health and Nutritional
now on the system and we expect to fully expanding our geographic reach and products at the right size and price.
complete the roll-out by 2020. achieving greater flexibility around our
In small to medium-sized villages with
product offering, format and price in
In order to deliver high quality products about eight to ten retail outlets, we’ve
order to reach more consumers.
to our customers at the right time and created a network of over 13,000 rural
cost, we are focusing on reducing the The traditional distribution model used sub-distributors who are regularly
number of packs within our product to build business in India has not worked delivering GSK’s products to over
portfolio. This provides shoppers with in the rural, hard-to-reach villages which 200,000 village retailers. In even smaller
simpler and easier choices based on currently represent 70% of India’s villages with populations under 2,500
clear brand propositions. 1.2 billion population. with few or no retail outlets, we have
created a distribution channel that goes
It also simplifies our supply chain resulting Our goal was to build a strong
directly to homes. For this, we have
in easier and better forecasting, less infrastructure while at the same time
trained local women to set up their
inventory resulting in lower warehousing improving consumer awareness of
own distribution business selling directly
costs, increased capacity in our factories health and nutrition information in these
to households and helping to build a
and lower cost of goods. In 2014, we markets, thereby building a more
sustainable income source for them.
achieved a net pack reduction of 14%. sustainable business.
At the end of 2014, 435 women have
Going forward, we also expect to deliver We wanted to go beyond our existing been trained though this programme.
an estimated total annual cost saving of direct distribution network and cover
£400 million as a result of the proposed villages which were previously only
Novartis transaction. The delivery of these serviced by distributors giving little
savings is phased over five years with insight into the products purchased
50% being achieved by year three. by retailers or the communication our
customers received.36 GSK Annual Report 2014
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Responsible
business
Our success depends on our ability
to research and develop innovative
medicines, vaccines and consumer
healthcare products and make them
accessible for more people worldwide
in a responsible way.
Our partnership with Save the Children aims to help save
the lives of one million children. One of our programmes is
in the Democratic Republic of Congo, where health workers
like Head Nurse Jacqueline Mankenda (pictured), are directly
reaching thousands of children, including those in the hardest
to reach communities.nerdlihC
eht
evaS/edaW
yerbuA
:otohP
GSK Annual Report 2014 37
nerdlihC
eht
evaS
/
nohaL
yvI
:otohP
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
informationTax
Businesses are increasingly being
challenged to ensure they contribute
through the tax system to the societies
in which they operate, and to provide
information on their tax management
principles and policies. We understand
our responsibility to pay an appropriate
amount of tax. We fully support efforts
to ensure companies are appropriately
transparent about how their tax
affairs are managed.
We have a substantial business
and employment presence in many
countries around the globe and
we pay a significant amount of tax,
including corporation and other
business taxes, as well as tax
associated with our employees.
At the same time we have a
responsibility to our shareholders
to be financially efficient and deliver
a sustainable tax rate. As part of
this approach, we look to align our
investment strategies to those
countries where we already have
substantial economic activity and
where government policies promote
tax regimes which are attractive to
business investment.
We pay a considerable amount of
tax in the UK because a significant
proportion of our global corporate
functions and R&D and manufacturing
activities are located in the UK.
This includes corporation tax on
profits generated, as well as indirect
tax and employment taxes, although
the precise amounts fluctuate from
year to year.
38 GSK Annual Report 2014
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Responsible business
Our approach
How we conduct our business is just
as important as financial performance.
Being a responsible business is central Responsible business priorities
to our strategy, and how we conduct our The priorities for our responsible business
business is just as important to us as the approach sit within the context of macro-
financial results we achieve. We strive economic and social trends that are
to put our values at the heart of every impacting wider society and all companies.
decision we make and to meet or exceed These trends present both opportunities
the expectations of society. and challenges for global healthcare
companies like GSK (see page 8).
Our commitment starts at the top, with
our CEO and Corporate Executive Team, We report our progress across four areas:
and a dedicated Board-level Corporate Health for all, Our behaviour, Our people,
Responsibility Committee (CRC) led by and Our planet. Our responsible business
our Chairman (see page 94 for the 2014 priorities have been identified through our
report from the CRC). understanding of the issues that are most
important to our business success and to
Creating value for society
our stakeholders. For more detail on this
Developing innovative products and
analysis see our responsible business
maximising access to them delivers direct
supplement at gsk.com/responsibility.
benefit to patients and consumers. If we do
this successfully, this will deliver profitable In 2012, we developed longer-term
and sustainable business performance. commitments across the four areas.
In turn this allows us to generate value and These reflect global health needs and
returns for our shareholders and to reinvest are aligned with our strategic priorities
in the business. Over and above this, wider and our values of transparency, respect
society benefits, since healthy people and for people, integrity, and patient focus.
communities are essential to building
We report detailed progress against
strong, sustainable societies.
these commitments in our responsible
We also contribute significant value by business supplement, available on
making direct and indirect economic gsk.com/responsibility. In 2014 we
contributions in the countries and assessed 14 of these commitments
communities where we operate through as progressing well, six as on track,
tax (see box), our employment of 98,000 two with more work to do and one
people and charitable support. Our total under review.
charitable contributions for the year are
set out on page 40. Further details about
our corporate tax charges for the year
are on page 63 and we publish full details
about our position on tax.nerdlihC
eht
evaS/edaW
yerbuA
:otohP
GSK Annual Report 2014 39
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Access to healthcare
Ensuring access for all
We are determined to drive access to our products
to reach more patients and consumers, no matter
where they live or their ability to pay.
Our medicines, vaccines and consumer
health products are improving quality of
life for patients and consumers around the
world. But millions of people are still not
getting the vaccines and treatments they
need because they cannot afford them,
and there are still many diseases that
impact the poorest for which treatments
do not exist.
To play our part in tackling this global
health challenge and to drive access
to our products to more people, we
are pioneering new business models,
collaborating to strengthen healthcare
infrastructure and innovating to tackle
diseases that disproportionately affect
the poorest.
Affordability and availability
Improving access to healthcare is central
to our business, and we have evolved
our approach to increase access to
more patients and consumers by tackling
affordability and availability barriers.
To maximise patient benefits and sustain
our business in Least Developed Countries
(LDCs), we have a lower price/higher
volume approach and have capped prices
of our products at 25% of developed
market levels.
Responding to the Ebola outbreak
We seek regulatory approvals for our
established products in developing
Since the Ebola crisis began in March If it protects volunteers as hoped,
countries through our ‘catch up’
2014, GSK has been working closely it could contribute significantly to
programme to bridge the gap in access
with the World Health Organization controlling this outbreak. Its future
compared with developed countries.
(WHO), regulators and other partners use in mass vaccination campaigns
Our investment in local manufacturing
to respond to the outbreak and to will depend on whether WHO,
and capability building also increases
accelerate development of our regulators and other stakeholders are
the availability of locally relevant vaccines
investigational Ebola vaccine. We satisfied that the vaccine candidate
and medicines.
are also contributing to the overall provides protection against Ebola
We supply vaccines to Gavi, the Vaccine humanitarian effort and taking steps without causing significant side effects
Alliance, at significantly reduced prices to support the small number of and how quickly large quantities of
for use in the world’s poorest countries. employees we have in the region. vaccine can be made.
We have committed to provide Gavi with
In phase I studies, our investigational We are actively exploring with
more than 850 million vaccine doses at
Ebola vaccine demonstrated an relevant organisations and partners
reduced prices to help protect 300 million
acceptable safety profile and produced all opportunities to accelerate the
children in the developing world by 2024.
an immunological response in healthy development of manufacturing at an
We have also committed to a 10-year
adult volunteers. It is now being tested in industrial scale so that if the trials are
price freeze to Gavi graduating countries.
a large phase III clinical trial sponsored successful, we will be in a position to
By 2020, 22 countries with growing
by the National Institute of Health (NIH) significantly ramp-up production of the
economies will graduate from Gavi support.
which began in Liberia in February 2015. vaccine candidate to help combat this
This trial is expected to involve up to or future Ebola outbreaks.
30,000 people, one-third of whom will
receive GSK’s candidate Ebola vaccine.
It will compare the candidate vaccine to
a control vaccine to assess whether the
immune response seen in phase I trials
actually translates into meaningful
protection against Ebola.
nerdlihC
eht
evaS/edaW
yerbuA
:otohP40 GSK Annual Report 2014
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Access to healthcare
continued
We are also investing in new formulations, In the UK, we have taken a considered
smaller packs and different distribution approach to the pricing of Relvar Ellipta, 1st
models to make products more affordable Anoro Ellipta and Incruse Ellipta, which
and available. Since we introduced are priced and in line with, or less than,
single-dose capsules to help respiratory other alternatives.
GSK topped the Access to Medicine Index
patients spread the cost for inhalers,
Strengthening healthcare systems for the fourth consecutive time. The Index
Ventolin Rotacaps has become the most
In the world’s poorest countries, the lack measures the performance of the top 20
widely distributed GSK product in the
of trained healthcare workers to diagnose pharmaceutical companies on their efforts
Philippines.
diseases and administer treatment is to improve access to medicines and
We have a tiered pricing approach for preventing many patients from accessing healthcare in developing countries.
prescription medicines and vaccines, our life-saving medicines and vaccines,
Since the last Index in 2012, we have
where countries pay different prices based regardless of the cost.
taken further steps to help widen access
on their ability to pay, as determined by
By reinvesting 20% of our profits in LDCs to our medicines. These include filing our
Gross National Income (GNI) per person,
which will enable broad access to GSK to train front line healthcare workers, we malaria vaccine candidate for regulatory
medicines and vaccines globally. aim to improve access to healthcare for approval; forming a groundbreaking
20 million people by 2020. We have invested
five-year partnership with Save the
In middle income countries like Brazil, £6 million in 2014 (based on 2013 profits)
Children; launching an Africa NCD
Mexico, Indonesia and India, we work and a total of more than £21 million since
Open Lab; and putting patients at the
with governments and other healthcare the reinvestment programme began in
centre of our sales and marketing efforts.
providers to provide reimbursement or 2009. The 25,000 healthcare workers
payment assistance for patients who trained by our partners, Amref Health
cannot afford medicines such as Relvar Africa, CARE International and Save the
Ellipta, Benlysta or Revolade. Children, in collaboration with country
ministries of health, have improved access The overall 2014 total contribution
In developed markets, we have pioneered
to healthcare for over 6.5 million people. represents a decline, largely due to fewer
novel reimbursement approaches to widen
US patients enrolling in GSK’s patient
access to our newer medicines and have In addition to this, we have committed to
assistance programs, which is primarily
priced these at or below current treatments. train an additional 10,000 health workers
a result of new coverage options available
in Kenya, Ghana and Nigeria by 2017, and
For example, in the USA the list price for patients via the Affordable Care Act.
are currently supporting the UN-backed
for our diabetes medicine, Tanzeum, is Even with the new coverage options in
One Million Community Health Workers
lower than medicines in the same class. the USA, GSK continues to help support
Campaign run by the Earth Institute at
Diabetes affects nearly 21 million adults patient access to our medicines and also Columbia University with a grant of
age 20 and over, and nearly 60% of provides services to help interested and
£500,000.
patients with type 2 diabetes are on potentially eligible enrollees understand
multiple treatment therapies, each with We provide additional support for these alternative coverage options.
their own separate cost. We aim to be vulnerable communities through product
Partnership with Save the Children
mindful of healthcare costs, as we work and financial donations. In 2014, our
Our partnership with Save the Children,
to increase access and affordability and contributions totalled £201 million
formed in 2013, aims to help save the
reflect the value our innovative, quality (£221 million in 2013). This included:
lives of one million children in the world’s
medicines bring to patients. support for nearly 183,000 people through
poorest countries by combining our
Patient Assistance Programs in the USA;
scientific expertise and global reach with
858 million tablets of albendazole to
the charity’s on-the-ground knowledge.
prevent lymphatic filariasis and soil-
transmitted helminths as part of our Together we established two signature
commitment to combat neglected tropical programmes in Democratic Republic of
Our giving in 2014 diseases, and £5.5 million of products Congo (DRC) and Kenya that aim to tackle
(valued at cost) to support humanitarian challenges in the supply and demand of
2%
aid in 78 countries, distributed through effective healthcare and contribute to a
7%
our non-profit partners. reduction in maternal, newborn and under
25%
five deaths. We are exploring how an
antiseptic used in our Corsodyl mouthwash
can be reformulated to prevent infected
umbilical cords in newborns.
66%
£m
Cash 51
Product and in-kind 133
Time 4
Management 13
Total 201GSK Annual Report 2014 41
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Investing in Africa
GSK is investing in Africa to increase We are investing £25 million to create the To increase local capability and
access to medicines, build capacity world’s first Africa Non-Communicable capacity to manufacture medicines,
and deliver sustainable growth. Our Diseases Open Lab, where GSK we are investing up to £100 million to
vision is to make GSK products available scientists and external researchers will expand our existing facilities in Kenya
to 80% of the population in sub-Saharan work together to improve understanding and Nigeria and build new factories
Africa and least developed countries by of non-communicable disease variations elsewhere to ensure the sustainable
2020. This is not just philanthropy, it is seen in African patients. It is hoped this production of medicines in Africa for
a new way of doing business. will enable researchers across academia African people. These facilities will
and industry to develop new medicines make locally relevant products, including
Over the next five years, we will invest
to address the specific needs of African antibiotics and respiratory and HIV
£130 million in Africa. Working with
patients. We will invest in up to 25 medicines, create jobs and boost partners, we aim to provide a portfolio
academic chairs or other forms of support long-term economic prospects.
of relevant products, support African
for students, programmes and research
R&D expertise and increase local We will also work with partners to train
across a range of healthcare related
manufacturing capacity and capability. 10,000 healthcare workers in Kenya,
disciplines. These initiatives are all to
Ghana and Nigeria in addition to
promote the expansion of pharmaceutical
those trained in LDC’s through our
sciences, public health, engineering and
20% reinvestment programme.
logistics at African universities.
Innovation for diseases impacting We know that by sharing our insights and Now we are applying the same open
the developing world collaborating with partners we have the innovation model to target other areas
We are committed to innovation for potential to make progress faster. Our open of need where the traditional commercial
diseases that disproportionately affect innovation strategy offers external scientists model is not appropriate. In 2014, we
the world’s poorest, even when there is access to our compound library for TB and announced plans to create the world’s
not the same potential for commercial malaria, and to our resources to promote first Africa NCD Open Lab. We also
return on our R&D investment. research into diseases of the developing continue to collaborate with partners to
world. Since 2010, 50 external researchers accelerate the development of new drugs
Our pipeline includes the world’s first
have worked alongside GSK scientists at for Alzheimer’s disease and new antibiotics
malaria vaccine candidate, filed for
our Open Lab in Spain and have built up to combat growing resistance.
regulatory approval in 2014, as well as
a portfolio of 42 research projects.
a vaccine candidate for tuberculosis (TB).
We are also accelerating the development
of an Ebola vaccine at an unprecedented
rate (see page 39). We received regulatory
approvals in respiratory, oncology, HIV/
AIDS and diabetes in 2014, which will
help address the changing health burden
in developing countries. All of these
innovations promise to deliver treatments
needed by some of the world’s most
vulnerable people.42 GSK Annual Report 2014
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Our behaviour
Putting the needs of patients and consumers first
We are changing the way we work to further
embed our values in everything we do.
We expect all of our employees to act All medicines have potential risks as well
transparently, respectfully and with integrity as benefits. Our robust policies and Our values
– and to put the interests of patients and governance framework help us detect
consumers first at all times. and act on any side effects that may be • Patient focus
associated with our medicines and we
We aim to put these core values at the put patient safety first in our clinical trials • Integrity
heart of everything we do and every
decision we make: from the way we wherever they take place. • Respect for people
conduct our research, to our approach to All our trial protocols are reviewed by an • Transparency
sales and marketing to the way we interact independent ethics committee that has
with patients, doctors and policymakers. the power to reject or stop a trial, and we
maintain a global risk register to help our
Code of Conduct
research teams around the world monitor Firstly, in January 2015 we completed
Our Code of Conduct and accompanying
quality and safety controls appropriately. the roll-out of changes to the way our
training, seeks to ensure everyone at In 2014, we conducted 234 audits of our sales teams are compensated. Our sales
GSK understands how to put our values
trial sites and third parties carrying out trials professionals around the world no longer
into practice. Mandatory training on the
on our behalf to ensure high ethical quality have individual sales targets, but instead,
Code helps our employees gain the
and safety standards. are assessed and rewarded primarily based
confidence to make the right decisions
on their technical skills, scientific
and report any concerns through our We maintain strict quality and safety
knowledge, quality of service they deliver
Speak up programme. standards at all our manufacturing sites.
to HCPs, and broader business
Our quality culture puts the patient at the
Our Speak up programme offers people performance. In the USA, GSK was
centre of our efforts to deliver ‘right first
within and outside GSK a range of ranked first among major pharmaceutical
time’. It is also essential that the ingredients
channels to voice concerns and report companies by HCPs on the value we
and materials that go into our products
misconduct without fear of reprisal. bring in our 2014 customer satisfaction
are safe and of high quality.
These include telephone and internet survey (see case study on page 21).
channels run by independent external We expect our suppliers to uphold the
Secondly, we are changing how we support
operators to enable anonymous reporting. same high standards we set ourselves
education for doctors. Our commitment to
In 2014, we standardised how we monitor and we monitor their performance through
medical education remains unchanged, but
contacts made to our global compliance our compliance processes and quality
we will move away from direct sponsorship
management system to report potential risk assessments.
of individual HCPs to arm’s length funding,
allegations and ask questions, and we
Counterfeit medicines, vaccines and other for example via third-party independent
significantly increased our monitoring
healthcare products pose a significant medical organisations.
activities globally. This has led to an
threat to patient and consumer safety as
increase from 1,865 contacts made Thirdly, by 2016, we will no longer pay
well as to our reputation. Counterfeiting
in 2013 to 3,203 contacts in 2014. HCPs to speak to other prescribers about
is a crime and we work closely with
our medicines. Instead we are using other
We updated the Code of Conduct in appropriate law enforcement and customs
channels, including digital and real-time
2014 to reinforce the critical role our agencies to combat large-scale, often
applications, to provide information about
values play in protecting our reputation highly organised, counterfeiters.
our medicines and vaccines in the way
and commercial success, and we extended
In 2014, we introduced Fingerprint, an HCPs want it, when they want it.
it to cover our complementary workforce end-to-end supply chain serialisation
who will be required to complete training The expert medical doctors we have within
programme that will apply unique serial
in 2015. GSK will also take on a role to talk and
‘fingerprints’ on many of our products.
answer questions about our medicines
Suppliers are also expected to follow our The unique identifiers will be recorded
with their peers. They will be responsible
standards and we are increasing our focus in a database so the product can then
for, and measured on, providing the right
on responsible procurement with a new be scanned and verified against the
information to support the safe and effective
initiative that will simplify and standardise database at any point in the supply chain.
use of our medicines.
our approach to managing third-party risk By the end of 2014, 48 packaging lines at
globally. This focus on supply chain risk 14 of our sites had serialisation capability. Clinical research transparency
is also one of the key areas we need Sharing information on our clinical research
Modernising sales and marketing
to address as part of our ongoing helps to build trust and supports further
We are modernising the way we sell and
commitment to the UN Guiding Principles research to benefit medical science and
market our medicines, transforming the
on Business and Human Rights. patient care.
business model the industry has had for
Rigorous patient and consumer safety many years. We are changing how we Since 2004, we have shared information
Patient safety is our number one priority reward our sales representatives and on our trials and results, regardless of
in the development, testing, manufacturing engage with healthcare professionals whether the outcomes might be considered
and use of our products. (HCPs), to meet customer needs and positive or negative, through an online
to ensure patients interests come first. clinical study register.
In 2014, we made good progress against
our commitments in three key areas,
announced in December 2013.GSK Annual Report 2014 43
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
This increases the instances where we
Addressing misconduct are exposed to activities and interactions
with bribery and corruption risk.
Given the complexity of our sector and the As part of our commitment to In some cases retraining is extended
challenges of working in global healthcare,
transparency, we report annually on how to an employee’s colleagues to prevent
we will continue to face risks. Operating in
we have addressed misconduct within them from making similar mistakes.
emerging markets is especially challenging
our business. In 2014, we standardised
Breaches of external codes given the issues many of these countries
how we capture the number of contacts
GSK was found to be in breach of face with funding and maturity of their
made to our global compliance
external industry or government respective healthcare systems. However,
management system which employees
promotional codes 39 times in 2014 we continue to believe that with robust
can use to report potential allegations
compared with 36 times in 2013. compliance systems and, by working closely
and ask questions. This has led to an
23 breaches were for our Consumer with local governments, our presence in
increase from 1,800 contacts made
Healthcare products and were primarily these markets can help improve access
in 2013 to 3,200 contacts in 2014.
breaches of country specific regulations/ to medicines and broader healthcare.
In 2014, 3,947 employees were codes regarding local advertising
Our Anti-Bribery and Corruption (ABAC)
disciplined for policy violations (3,128 guidelines. The remaining breaches were
programme is designed to prevent
in 2013), the majority of these were for for our prescription products including
non-compliance through controls, practical
attendance or payroll violations. Of the breaches for promotional materials and
guidance and mandatory training. During the
total disciplined, 373 (375 in 2013) advertising and breaches of local country
year, all GSK employees and complementary
were dismissed or agreed to leave the specific regulations/codes.
workers completed basic level training and
company voluntarily. Policy violations
We investigate every breach of an over 72,000 in high risk-roles completed
related to sales and marketing codes
external code and take steps to prevent advanced ABAC training.
accounted for 233 dismissals (161 in
a reoccurrence, which may include
2013). Of the total disciplined, 3,131 Our governance structures and strong
retraining or other corrective action,
employees received a documented focus on responsible behaviour are designed
such as disciplinary action.
warning (2,753 in 2013). to prevent ethical breaches. But sometimes
things can still go wrong. If that happens,
The primary reason for the increase Types of policy violations
we act promptly and decisively.
in the number of disciplinary cases 2014
(particularly documented warnings 3% In September 2014, GSK China Investment
related to Code of Conduct violations) 3% 6% Co. Ltd (GSKCI) was found guilty,
was the increased number of reports 5% according to Chinese law, of bribing
from China (652 in 2014, 48 in 2013). 5% non-government personnel. This verdict
The increases in China were related 6% 43% followed investigations initiated by China’s
to the investigation by the Chinese Ministry of Public Security in June 2013
8%
authorities, the strengthening of and included a fine of £301 million.
monitoring systems, and the introduction 10%
11% This has been a deeply disappointing
of a quarterly knowledge test for sales
matter for us. The illegal activities of
representatives. Failure to pass the test
GSKCI are a clear breach of GSK’s
results in the employee receiving a
Attendance/payroll M arketing and governance and compliance procedures.
documented warning. Employees in the
sales force who receive a documented Code of conduct promotional activities They are wholly contrary to the values and
Training completion standards expected from our employees.
warning are disqualified from the sales G ood manufacturing
We have published a statement of apology
incentive programme for 12 months. practices/good F alsification of
distribution practices documents to the Chinese government and its people
Employees who remain with the L ocal work regulation Travel and expenses on our website.
company following a policy violation violations
Fraud Our focus is on learning from this issue.
receive retraining and increased
monitoring or support. Other We have taken steps to comprehensively
rectify the issues identified at GSKCI,
including changing engagement activities
with healthcare professionals and expanding
In 2013, GSK became the first company expanded to include data from nine other our review and monitoring of invoicing and
to publish formal reports that are the basis companies in 2014. Researchers must payments. We will use robust compliance
of submissions to regulatory agencies submit their proposals to an independent systems and work closely with government
known as Clinical Study Reports (CSRs). review panel to ensure the data will be to continue to innovate, improve access to
The register now includes over 5,500 used appropriately and commit to medicines and establish GSKCI as a model
summaries and 180 CSRs. publishing the results of their work. for reform in China’s healthcare industry.
Following improvements to the design Anti-Bribery and Corruption We have also sought to apply appropriate
and utility of the register, we have seen We are exposed to bribery and lessons to our operations elsewhere, but,
an increase in the number of pages viewed corruption risk through our global given the complex global environment in
per visit and the duration of each visit. business operations. In some markets, which we operate, we will continue to
the government structure and the rule face risks.
We were the first company to provide
of law are less developed, and this
researchers with the detailed data that sit
has a bearing on our bribery and
behind clinical trials results. Researchers
corruption risk exposure. In addition
can request access to detailed anonymised
to the global nature of our business,
patient-level data from over 1,000 of our
the healthcare sector is highly
trials through an online system, which we
competitive and subject to regulation.44 GSK Annual Report 2014
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Our people
Respect for people is one of GSK’s core values
To ensure we have the right people with the right
skills, we focus on talent, leadership, performance
and engagement.
Talent and leadership Engaging employees in our mission,
42%
We are working hard to attract, develop values and strategy gives everyone at
and retain the skilled and talented people GSK a clear sense of how they can help
we need at all levels of our organisation. drive the business forward. Our CEO
Women in management positions
and members of the Corporate Executive
For employees in the early stage of their
Team (CET) keep employees informed
careers, we offer many opportunities,
about our strategy and progress throughout 50%
including apprenticeships, internships
the year. We also encourage employee
and graduate schemes. We are on track
feedback to improve their experience.
to achieve our global target to recruit reduction in injury and illness rate
In 2014, we conducted interim surveys
450 students a year onto our early covering around 33,000 employees that over the last 10 years
talent programmes by 2015.
indicated our managers were leading our
Acknowledging our global commitment
people more effectively.
to increasing our apprentice population,
we have decided to include them in our Engagement and formal consultation with Our groundbreaking global Partnership
early talent community, alongside our employees and representatives, such as for Prevention (P4P) programme aims
Future Leaders (graduates) and Esprit unions and works councils, is particularly to create a healthier workforce and
(post-graduate) programme participants. important during periods of restructuring. differentiate GSK as an employer.
We continue to work closely with these P4P offers up to 40 preventive healthcare
Our leadership development programmes
groups during the proposed three-part services – such as immunisations, cancer
provide employees at all levels with the
transaction with Novartis which will lead screenings and preventive examinations
skills they need to become effective
to considerable change. Around 12,000 – to employees and their families. We
leaders – from Management Essentials,
Novartis employees will join our business are the only multinational company to offer
for those new to management, to the
and employee transfers will take place such benefits on this scale and we are
more advanced Leading Business for
in around 80 countries. A key priority making good progress towards our target
our experienced leaders. Our coaching
is to limit the number of redundancies, to implement P4P globally by 2018.
programmes helped 4,034 participants
offer support where redundancies are
strengthen their leadership capabilities Inclusion and diversity
unavoidable and assist in cases where
in 2014. See our case study on page 45 As an inclusive employer we value the
employees need to find new employment.
for more information on our approach different perspectives, experiences and
to leadership. Health, safety and resilience working styles of our global workforce.
We take a progressive approach to
In addition, our flagship PULSE Volunteer We aim to improve gender balance at
protecting the health and wellbeing
Partnership enables employees to work all levels of our organisation. In 2014,
of our people with a focus on sustaining
full time with a non-profit organisation we focused on creating opportunities
a strong health and safety culture.
or charity for three or six months. This for women in management. The proportion
Over the last ten years, we have more
experience adds a new dimension to the of women in management continued to
than halved our reportable injury and
development of our people and provides increase to 42% (see page 45). Women
illness rate. In 2014, we reduced this
insights and expertise to organisations continued to represent 21% of our CET
figure by 4% to 0.26 incidents per
working to address major healthcare and 31% of our Board. GSK ranked joint
100,000 hours worked. This means we
challenges. Since 2009, we have sent fifth in the UK Government’s 2014 report
have achieved our 2015 target a year early.
482 employees from 51 countries to work on women’s representation on the boards
with 94 non-profits and provided over Our health and safety culture seeks to of FTSE 100 companies.
£16 million worth of skilled services to ensure employees are aware of health
Our employee-led Women’s Leadership
our partners. In 2014, 98 employees and safety risks. In 2014, we continued
Initiative brought together, both virtually
volunteered with 39 organisations. to invest in leadership training to help
and at regional hubs, 1,500 people and
leaders from 30 countries manage such
Performance and engagement over 20 GSK senior leaders at an inaugural
risks more effectively.
We are improving the way we manage global conference in 2014 to encourage
employees’ performance. Our new global Recognising the challenge of balancing action on women’s career development.
performance system sets clear objectives, personal and professional responsibilities,
Our coaching and sponsorship programme
aligns with delivering our strategy and is we run Energy & Resilience programmes
supported 118 female managers complete
underpinned by the six GSK Expectations globally to help our employees lead
individual and group coaching sessions.
that promote individual responsibility healthier lives, at home and at work.
We also encourage senior leaders to
by defining what we require of everyone Since 2012, 16% of our global workforce
sponsor female managers to support
at GSK. By putting more emphasis on across 45 countries have participated in
their career development.
results and the way results are achieved, this initiative. We plan to increase
it strengthens the connection between participation in 2015.
individual performance and reward.GSK Annual Report 2014 45
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Creating a pipeline of strong leaders at all levels of our business
We support our leaders in developing The Leading Delivery programme helps The small number of leaders
best-practice management capabilities our middle managers – those ‘leading demonstrating the business acumen
and values-based decision making, managers’ – to translate our business and leadership capabilities to be
through a range of leadership strategy into action, drive performance, appointed to our CET or one of its
programmes. These clarify what is build capabilities and enhance trust with direct reports, participate in our
expected of our leaders in delivering their team members and colleagues. Enterprise Leadership programme,
our strategy of helping our patients a highly customised two-year global
For experienced, high-potential leaders,
and customers do more, feel better learning experience.
our Leading Business programme equips
and live longer.
them to manage and support diverse, In 2014, we introduced a new
Strengthened by the common language cross-cultural and high-performing programme to enable our female leaders
created through our GSK Leadership teams, while translating our strategy into to enhance their network, clarify their
Expectations, our leadership programmes effective actions for their business units. career ambitions and build their
also ensure we have exceptional and Over an 18-month period, participants confidence to become strong senior
diverse leaders at all levels of the business. undertake an immersive experience in leaders. We believe this programme
Mumbai and London focusing on helps our organisation to make better
Our Management Essentials and First
balancing their numerous leadership decisions by further reducing risk and
Line Leader programmes provide new
responsibilities. increasing innovation.
managers with a thorough grounding
in essential management responsibilities.
Women in management positions (%) We are also working hard to ensure we The people we employ in Emerging
understand the needs of people with Markets, Asia Pacific and Japan represent
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
disabilities when developing employment 44% of our workforce. In 2014, our
SVP/VP 25 26 27 28 29
opportunities and have established a Global consumer healthcare business in India
Director 37 38 39 40 40 Disability Council to support our aim to and pharmaceutical business in Latin
Manager 42 42 43 44 45 become a disability confident organisation. America made particularly good progress
Total 38 39 40 41 42 in attracting and developing local talent.
As a founding member of business
disability international, a social enterprise We also increased the proportion of people
Employees by gender (number)
involving other global businesses, GSK from emerging markets participating in
Male Female Total is helping develop global standards to our development programmes and joining
Board 10 5 15 measure business’s disability performance. the company through our graduate and
Managementa 9,899 7,201 17,100 To ensure our leadership teams represent MBA programmes.
Total 55,620 42,301 97,921 the diverse markets we serve, we are
building a talent pipeline that includes
a Management: senior managers as defined in people from a range of cultural and ethnic
the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report
backgrounds. Currently, eight nationalities
and Directors’ Report) Regulations 2013,
which includes persons responsible for planning, are represented on the Corporate
directing or controlling the activities of the Executive Team and Board.
company, or a strategically significant part
of the company, other than the Board,
including directors of undertakings included
in the consolidated accounts.46 GSK Annual Report 2014
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Our planet
Reducing our environmental impacts
We have set ambitious goals to reduce carbon,
water and waste across our value chain.
Carbon Helping our suppliers reduce their
We aim to achieve a carbon neutral carbon emissions is critical to achieving External benchmarking
value chain by 2050. We are reducing our value chain carbon goal and to better
operational carbon emissions and understand the impacts here. In 2014,
GSK is the only pharmaceutical company
engaging suppliers, patients and we collected carbon, as well as water
to have achieved the Carbon Trust’s
consumers to cut emissions associated and waste, data from over 200 of our
standards for cutting carbon emissions
with sourcing raw materials and use largest materials suppliers.
and water use.
of our products.
Patient or consumer use of our products,
In 2014, we reduced our Scope 1 and such as metered dose inhalers, accounts
2 emissions, those within our operations, for 46% of carbon emissions across
by 11% to 1.6 million tonnes of CO e. our value chain. Our inhaler recycling
2
This is a 19% reduction compared with scheme, Complete the Cycle, now running
REDUCING WATER
2010. Our Scope 3 emissions, such as in six countries, allows us to reduce waste YEAR ON YEAR
those associated with raw materials, sent to landfill and prevent any remaining
GSK is one of only two pharmaceutical
logistics, business travel and use of our inhaler propellant being released as
companies to be included in CDP’s FTSE
metered dose inhalers (that use an HFA greenhouse gas.
350 Climate Disclosure Leadership Index.
propellant), increased by 2% in 2014.
Water
This is an increase of 17% compared to
In 2014, we cut our operational water use
2010. Tackling our Scope 3 emissions
by a further 5%. This represents a 20%
continues to be a challenge as the sales
reduction from the 2010 baseline and
of our propellant-based inhalers continue
means we have met our 2015 target to cut
to grow.
operational water use by 20% a year early.
Reducing energy use and the carbon Measuring and reducing our wider water
emissions associated with generating impact across the value chain – not just Our supply chain, particularly where
the energy we purchase, is key to cutting the amount we use – is more challenging we are sourcing raw materials, uses
our operational carbon impact. To address but in 2014 we completed an extensive an estimated 1,200 million m3 of water.
this, we are investing in renewable energy assessment to prioritise our future efforts We have partnered with TERI, an NGO
infrastructure and using waste as fuel for in this regard. in India, to develop a diagnostic water
energy. For example, at our Cork site in impact tool. In 2014, we used this to
We use just under 15 million m3 of
Ireland we have installed a 150-metre wind identify opportunities for 10 of our largest
water per year in our operations and
turbine that will cut the site’s electrical suppliers to reduce their water impacts.
systematically audit our sites to identify
carbon footprint by 30% and which has In 2015, we will work with our suppliers
opportunities to cut usage. In 2014, we
already saved over £900,000 in energy and TERI to extend this process to
cut water use by an average of 10% at
costs in 2014. a further 20 suppliers.
four of our higher-use sites. We have
worked with the Carbon Trust to pilot
new ways to reduce water impacts in
our sites, and piloted this approach
in eight sites in 2014.
Tonnes COea 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
2
Scope 1 emissions 1,011,180 1,035,856 1,016,983 1,040,928 877,037
Scope 2 emissions 964,215 881,101 777,669 767,710 726,469
Scope 3 emissions 11,712,125 11,857,189 12,299,391 12,397,550 12,526,801
Intensity ratios 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
Scope 1 and 2 emissions/
sales revenue (tonnes CO2e/£m) 69.6 70.0 67.9 68.2 69.7
Scope 1 and 2/FTE
(tonnes COe/FTE) 20.5 19.7 18.0 18.2 16.4
2
a Carbon emissions are calculated according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting
and Reporting Standard (revised edition).GSK Annual Report 2014 47
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Waste
With a goal to halve operational waste
by 2020, we are actively eliminating,
reusing and recycling waste, as well as
generating energy from waste. In 2014,
we generated 159,000 tonnes of waste
from our operations, 4% less than in 2013
and 11% less than 2010. We continue to
explore ways to cut waste to bring us back
on track to achieve our target.
Only 6% of our total waste went to landfill
in 2014, and three more sites achieved zero
waste to landfill status, bringing the total to
48. This means 50% of our manufacturing
and major research and development sites
send zero waste to landfill. We are on track
to hit our 2015 waste-to-landfill target, but
we have more work to do to achieve zero
to landfill at all our sites by 2020. While
we recognise the need to continue
reducing waste, complex regulatory
environments can mean it takes several
years to make the required improvements
to manufacturing processes.
Reducing environmental impacts while improving
Rather than sending waste to landfill,
we focus on reusing waste where possible, access to medicines
or recycling it or incinerating it to generate
energy. The proportion of waste that is
Antibiotics have the third biggest At our amoxicillin production site,
recycled or disposed of with a positive
carbon footprint of our products based Quality Road, in Singapore, we are
benefit has increased from 71% in 2010
on volume sold. We have been on a introducing a new process that will
to 75% in 2014.
journey to change the way we make eliminate chlorinated solvents, cut the
them, looking for ways to save energy, amount of waste produced and reduce
cut water impact and waste, improve carbon emissions. We are using
yields and reduce costs. We have unrecoverable solvent waste as fuel
achieved a 15% reduction in our to generate electricity and steam at
antibiotics carbon footprint per pack Jurong, our other factory in Singapore.
over the last five years, while increasing
At our site in Worthing UK, we formulate
production volumes by 40%.
and package the antibiotic, Augmentin,
In Irvine, Scotland, where fermentation from amoxicillin and clavulanic acid.
takes place to make penicillin and By putting six tablets in each foil blister
clavulanic acid, we have introduced strip, instead of four, we have reduced
wind turbines and two combined heat foil use by 30% and pack size by 25%,
and power plants to reduce carbon enabling us to put more packs on
emissions from energy use. We have each pallet.
also installed an anaerobic digester that
treats fermentation waste to generate
biogas used to fuel a 1MW combined
heat and power plant that will save the
site £1.4 million a year. Together, these
changes mean Irvine is now producing
around 40% more product using just
5% more energy and the same amount
of water as in 2010, with a 10%
reduction in carbon emissions.48 GSK Annual Report 2014
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Group financial
review
Our Group financial review discusses
the financial architecture, the operating
and financial performance of the Group,
our financial resources and returns
to shareholders.
Hock-Peng is a senior maintenance technician at our Tuas
Vaccines manufacturing site in Singapore, where we make
hundreds of thousands of doses of Synflorix each year for
use around the world.GSK Annual Report 2014 49
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
informationStrategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Group financial review
CFO’s statement
Our financial architecture
is designed to support the
execution of our strategy
and to enhance returns
to shareholders.
2014 was clearly a challenging year with On the positive side, we saw strong
2014 highlights
a number of factors combining to create progress in several parts of the business
significant headwinds for us, particularly that we have been investing in, especially
the greater than expected contracting and ViiV Healthcare, up 15%, and Emerging
£23.0bn competitive pressure in our US respiratory Markets, up 5%. Our oncology portfolio,
business, the launch of Lovaza generics boosted by new product launches, also
and the supply disruption we saw in our grew strongly, up 33%.
Sales Consumer Healthcare business through
Down 3% CER excluding divestments most of the year. Operating leverage
(Down 7% CER including divestments) Our ability to deliver operating leverage or
Despite these pressures, we saw strong improved profitability is heavily impacted by
performances from a number of other the overall trend in sales, but it is particularly
95.4 areas of the business, further progress affected by changes in the mix of regional
p in R&D delivery, multiple new product or product contributions. These were a
launches as well as continued delivery significant factor in 2014, with the sales
Core earnings per share of operating and financial efficiencies decline driven primarily by higher margin
Down 1% CER excluding divestments through the restructuring of our cost base. US products such as Advair and Lovaza.
As a result, core operating profit in 2014
At the same time, we also protected the
was 6% lower than in 2013 in CER terms
57.3 investments we need to make across our on a turnover decline of 3%, despite
p business behind our new launches and
around £400 million of incremental cost
other future growth drivers.
savings being delivered in the year from our
Total earnings per share
Financial architecture various restructuring initiatives and ongoing
Down 40% CER
Our financial architecture is designed cost reduction efforts.
to support the consistent execution of
Some of these savings were reinvested
our strategy and to enhance the returns
into new launches and improvements to
it delivers to shareholders.
2014 simplification our manufacturing capabilities and capacity,
It is focused on delivering more sustainable in line with our strategic priorities. The
highlights
sales growth across the company, improving balance was not sufficient however to offset
our operating leverage or profitability and the impact of mix changes and lower sales.
enhancing our financial efficiency. This is As a result, the core operating margin of
£3.5bn
in order to drive growth in EPS ahead of 28.7% was 1.7 percentage points lower
our sales performance and then convert than in 2013 and excluding currency effects,
more of those earnings into cash that we the margin decreased 0.8 percentage
Cumulative annual savings from
can use to invest in the business or return points. This primarily reflected the increase
restructuring achieved since 2008
to shareholders wherever we see the most in SG&A as a percentage of sales despite
attractive returns. the 2% decline in actual spend.
93 This clear set of priorities ensures We remain focused on managing our
markets
consistency in how we allocate our capital cost base more effectively. Our Operational
across the different businesses within Excellence programme initiated in 2007
Already supported by Core Business GSK. Investment decisions are rigorously has now been completed, delivering
Services, representing 65% of GSK sales benchmarked using a Cash Flow Return £2.9 billion of annual savings. Together
on Investment (CFROI) framework. with our major change programme
announced in 2013, we have delivered
26% Sales performance
£3.5 billion of annual savings to date.
Sales in 2014 declined by 3% CER
In October 2014, we announced a further
excluding divestments. This decline
programme to refocus our pharmaceuticals
Proportion of GSK sales that is already reflects the significant headwinds from
business to deliver an additional £1.0 billion
running on the new global ERP platform US respiratory, Lovaza generics and
of annual savings by 2017.
some supply disruption in Consumer.
50 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
GSK financial architecture: driving improved returns to shareholders
Sales growth
Operating leverage EPS Returns to
shareholders
Financial efficiency Free cash flow
Cashflow growth
Reducing complexity in our business We also continue to align our tax strategy Returns to shareholders
remains central to our strategy as it with our evolving business profile and have GSK’s commitment is to use free cash
allows us to enhance our efficiency, implemented a number of measures to flow to support increasing dividends over
reduce operating costs and improve centralise our Pharmaceutical intellectual the long term, undertake share repurchases
our consistency of execution. Reducing property and product inventory ownership or, where returns are more attractive,
complexity also allows us to create more in the UK. This has helped us to reduce our reinvest in the business, including bolt-on
flexibility in our cost base so that as well core tax rate from 23.0% in 2013 to 19.6% acquisitions. The decision as to how to
as releasing savings we can more easily in 2014. The lower tax rate in 2014 also allocate such cash flow is rigorously
reallocate resources behind key reflects the resolution of a number of benchmarked using a returns-based
investment opportunities such as matters that benefited the year. framework based on CFROI comparisons.
our multiple new launches.
Earnings per share In 2014, we returned £4.1 billion of cash
You can find details of simplification The increased flexibility that our to shareholders, including £3,843 million
initiatives throughout this report, from restructuring programmes and financial in dividends and £238 million in share
the implementation of an end-to-end efficiencies have delivered allowed us to repurchases. The total ordinary dividend
supply chain to organisational redesign. offset a substantial proportion of the top declared for 2014 is 80p per share, a 3%
In addition to these initiatives, we have line pressure during the year and deliver increase over 2013. The dividend per share
been establishing Core Business Services core EPS down 1% while also protecting for the full year 2015 is expected to be
(CBS) to bring together our support investments in the business. maintained at the same level as 2014.
functions in order to streamline and
Total EPS 57.3p (down 40%) primarily Following the completion of the Novartis
standardise functional support to the
reflects non-cash adjustments to the transaction, GSK intends to return to
business. Six CBS regional business
contingent consideration due in relation to shareholders £4 billion of the net
centres already support 93 markets,
ViiV Healthcare as a result of the improved proceeds. The company does not expect
representing 65% of GSK sales. Further,
sales outlook for Tivicay and Triumeq as to make any ordinary share repurchases
the enterprise resource planning (ERP)
well as an unfavourable comparison with in 2015.
platform that we are implementing is
product and asset disposal gains in 2013.
replacing a large number of separate Future shape of the business
outdated IT systems across the company, Cash conversion The proposed three-part transaction with
giving us common databases and The business remains highly cash-generative Novartis accelerates our strategy and also
standard business processes that will and we continue to focus on improving clearly meets the objectives of the financial
help us simplify our operations, drive conversion of earnings into cash through architecture. In particular, it will provide
efficiencies and give us detailed analytics greater focus on cash generation, working a better balanced and broader range of
to improve our day-to-day operations and capital control and capital allocation. growth drivers, significant synergy and
decision making. operating leverage efficiencies, continued
Net cash inflow from operations was
financial efficiencies and a more balanced
Financial efficiency £5.2 billion for the year (down 28% in
and sustainable cashflow.
In 2014, financial efficiencies delivered Sterling terms). This reflected the negative
significant value and contributed positive impact of the strength of Sterling as well The closure of the transaction remains
leverage to our reported core EPS. as lower profits, including the impact of on track for completion in the week
divestments. The currency effect abated commencing 2 March 2015.
We have continued to take advantage of
in the fourth quarter, which also saw an
an era of low interest rates to secure more A fuller review of the financial results
improved working capital position.
attractive long-term funding, without losing is set out on pages 52 to 70.
flexibility. Overall we have reduced net
funding costs by 3 percentage points
since 2010. We continue to target a credit
rating of A1/P1. We believe this target
balances equity returns with the interests
of other stakeholders, including our bond
holders, while optimising our access to Simon Dingemans
the capital markets. Chief Financial Officer
GSK Annual Report 2014 51Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Group financial review
Core CER growth rates for 2014 are calculated compared with
Group performance
2013 core results excluding divestments unless otherwise stated.
Our Group financial review discusses the operating and financial Reconciliations of core results to total results are presented
performance of the Group, the financial outlook and our financial on page 61.
resources. We compare the results for each year primarily with
Core results reporting aligns business performance reporting
results of the preceding year.
around the underlying trading performance of the Group and its
In order to illustrate underlying performance, it is our practice primary growth drivers by removing the volatility inherent in many
to discuss the results in terms of constant exchange rate (CER) of the non-core items.
growth. This represents growth calculated as if the exchange
Core results reporting is utilised as the basis for internal
rates used to determine the results of overseas companies in
performance reporting and the core results are presented and
Sterling had remained unchanged from those used in the previous
discussed in this Group financial review as we believe that this
year. CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates.
approach provides investors with a clearer view of the underlying
£% represents growth at actual exchange rates.
trading performance of the Group. We also believe that this
All growth rates included in this Report are at constant approach should make the Group’s results more comparable
exchange rates (CER) unless otherwise stated. CER growth with the majority of our peers, many of which use similar forms
is discussed below. of underlying performance reporting to discuss their results,
although the precise calculations may differ. The Group financial
We use a number of adjusted measures to report the performance
review also presents and discusses the total results of the Group.
of our business. These measures are used by management for
planning and reporting purposes and in discussions with and Free cash flow
presentations to investment analysts and rating agencies and Free cash flow is the net cash inflow from operating activities less
are defined below. These measures are not defined in IFRS and capital expenditure, interest and dividends paid to non-controlling
may not be comparable with similarly described measures used interests plus proceeds from the sale of property, plant and
by other companies. equipment and dividends received from joint ventures and
associated undertakings. Free cash flow growth is calculated
Core results reporting
on a Sterling basis. A reconciliation is presented on page 68.
During 2014, we have reported core results performance
measured against 2013 core results excluding divestments Working capital conversion cycle
completed during 2013. The working capital conversion cycle is calculated as the number
of days sales outstanding plus days inventory outstanding, less
Core results exclude the following items from total results:
days purchases outstanding.
amortisation and impairment of intangible assets (excluding
computer software) and goodwill; major restructuring costs, In order to illustrate underlying performance, it is our practice
including those costs following material acquisitions; legal to discuss the results in terms of constant exchange rate (CER)
charges (net of insurance recoveries) and expenses on the growth. This represents growth calculated as if the exchange
settlement of litigation and government investigations; other rates used to determine the results of overseas companies in
operating income other than royalty income; disposals of Sterling had remained unchanged from those used in the previous
associates, products and businesses, and acquisition year. CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates. £%
accounting adjustments for material acquisitions, together represents growth at actual exchange rates.
with the tax effects of all of these items.
In addition, the charge for an additional year of the US Branded
Prescription Drug fee, in accordance with the final regulations
issued by the IRS during the year, has been recorded as a
non-core item. The normal ongoing charge remains in core
results.
Major restructuring costs charged in arriving at operating
profit include:
• costs arising under the Operational Excellence restructuring
programme, initiated in 2007 expanded in 2009, 2010
and 2011 and substantially complete at the end of 2014
• the Major Change restructuring programme initiated in 2013
• restructuring costs following the acquisitions of Human
Genome Sciences, Inc. in August 2012 and Stiefel
Laboratories, Inc. in July 2009
• a Pharmaceuticals restructuring programme, announced
in October 2014, which will rescale commercial operations,
global support functions and the relevant R&D/manufacturing
operations across Pharmaceuticals following the proposed
divestment of Oncology products and the changed dynamics
in the US respiratory market.
52 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Financial review 2014 Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines – USA
Group turnover by business Turnover £bn
2013 08
2014 (restated) Growth Growth 22%
£m £m CER% £% 07
Pharmaceuticals 15,478 17,426 (5) (11)
06
Vaccines 3,192 3,420 (1) (7) 5.8 of Group turnover
05 5.5
Pharmaceuticals 5.0
and Vaccines 18,670 20,846 (4) (10) 04
(10)%
Consumer Healthcare 4,336 4,756 (1) (9) 03
23,006 25,602 (3) (10)
02
Divestments – 903 – – CER growth
01
Total 23,006 26,505 (3) (10)
CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates. £% represents 0
2012 2013 2014
growth at actual exchange rates.
Total Group turnover for 2014 declined 3% to £23,006 million. Operating profit £bn
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines turnover fell by 4%.
08
Pharmaceuticals turnover declined 5% as growth in Emerging
£3.2bn
Markets, Japan and ViiV Healthcare was more than offset by 07
lower sales in the US and in Established Products. Europe
06
Pharmaceuticals was flat for the year. Worldwide Vaccines Operating profit
turnover declined 1%, as a positive performance in Emerging 05
Markets was more than offset by lower reported sales in Europe 04
and Japan. US Vaccines sales were flat. Consumer Healthcare
3.7
4.0 (16)%
turnover was £4,336 million in the year, down 1% compared 03 3.2
with 2013. 02
CER growth
Group turnover by geographic region 01
2013 0
2014 (restated) Growth Growth 2012 2013 2014
£m £m CER% £%
US 7,340 8,620 (11) (15)
Breakdown of turnover
Europe 6,412 6,862 (2) (7) Growth
£m CER %
Emerging Markets 6,193 6,579 4 (6)
Respiratory 2,810 (18)
Japan 1,608 1,886 (3) (15)
Oncology 509 41
Other 1,453 1,655 (4) (12)
Cardiovascular, metabolic and urology 364 (16)
23,006 25,602 (3) (10)
Immuno-inflammation 196 39
Group sales outside the USA and Europe accounted for 40% of Other pharmaceuticals 171 (31)
total turnover and reported growth of 2%, adversely impacted by
Vaccines 930 –
a sales decline in Japan and weaker market conditions and some
supply constraints in Emerging Markets. Performance
In the US, Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines turnover declined 10%
Group turnover by segment
to £4,980 million, with Pharmaceuticals down 12% and Vaccines
2013 flat. Pharmaceutical sales were impacted by continued price and
2014 (restated) Growth Growth
contracting pressures, primarily affecting respiratory sales, which
£m £m CER% £%
were down 18% (11% volume decline and a 7% negative impact
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines:
of price and mix). Sales of Advair were down 25% (14% decline
US 4,980 5,817 (10) (14) in volume and an 11% decline from price and mix).
Europe 4,035 4,226 – (5)
Oncology products in the US contributed strongly in the year,
Emerging Markets 3,203 3,370 5 (5)
with sales up 41% to £509 million, benefiting from strong
Japan 937 1,058 1 (11)
performances from Votrient and Promacta, and the recent
ViiV Healthcare 1,498 1,386 15 8 launches of Tafinlar and Mekinist. Benlysta sales grew 22% to
Established products 3,011 3,874 (16) (22) £155 million. Generic competition in the US continued to impact
Other trading and sales of Dermatology products, which declined 56% to £49 million
unallocated pharmaceuticals 1,006 1,115 (1) (10) and Mepron, which declined 49% to £40 million. Sales of Infanrix/
Pharmaceuticals Pediarix grew 15% to £297 million, benefiting from favourable
CDC stockpile movements compared with 2013 and the absence
and Vaccines 18,670 20,846 (4) (10)
of a competitor, particularly in the first half of the year. Sales
Consumer Healthcare 4,336 4,756 (1) (9)
of hepatitis vaccines were down 6% to £234 million impacted
23,006 25,602 (3) (10)
by supply constraints. Boostrix was down 7% to £163 million
reflecting the return to the market of a competitor during the
Total Group turnover for 2014, including divestments completed
year and some supply constraints. Rotarix fell 16% to £86 million
in 2013, was down 7%, with Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines down
as a result of a CDC stockpile withdrawal during Q4 2014.
6% and Consumer Healthcare down 11%.
GSK Annual Report 2014 53Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Group financial review
continued
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines – Europe Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines –
Emerging Markets
Turnover £bn Turnover £bn
08 08
18% 14%
07 07
06 06
of Group turnover of Group turnover
05 05
04 4.0 4.2 4.0 Flat 04 5%
03 03 3.3 3.4 3.2
02 02
CER growth CER growth
01 01
0 0
2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014
Operating profit £bn Operating profit £bn
08 08
£2.2bn £1.0bn
07 07
06 06
Operating profit Operating profit
05 05
04 04
2% 16%
03 03
02 2.1 2.3 2.2 02
CER growth CER growth
01 01
1.1 1.0 1.0
0 0
2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014
Breakdown of turnover Breakdown of turnover
Growth Growth
£m CER % £m CER %
Respiratory 1,675 (3) Respiratory 777 3
Oncology 417 29 Oncology 169 30
Cardiovascular, metabolic and urology 293 – Cardiovascular, metabolic and urology 145 20
Immuno-inflammation 12 63 Immuno-inflammation 3 >100
Other pharmaceuticals 660 (4) Other pharmaceuticals 1,053 5
Vaccines 978 (2) Vaccines 1,056 1
Performance Performance
Europe Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines turnover was flat at Emerging Markets Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines turnover
£4,035 million. Pharmaceutical sales were flat at £3,057 million, increased 5% to £3,203 million, with Pharmaceuticals up 7% and
as strong growth in Oncology and the Avodart franchise up 8% Vaccines up 1%. Most markets outside Asia showed strong growth,
to £280 million, was offset by a 3% decline in Respiratory sales. with notable performances from Brazil, up 12% to £380 million,
The newly launched Relvar Ellipta recorded sales of £18 million and the rest of Latin America, up 9% to £593 million. Sales in
in the year but these were more than offset by lower sales of China fell 1%, reflecting the effects of the government investigation
Seretide, down 5% to £1,330 million (1% volume decline and a during the year. There was continued growth from Respiratory
4% negative impact of price), reflecting increasing competitive products, up 3%, Oncology, up 30%, and the Avodart franchise,
pressures and the transition of the Respiratory portfolio to the up 20%. In Vaccines, growth from strong tender sales of Boostrix,
newer products, particularly in the latter part of the year. Oncology Rotarix and Synflorix was largely offset by lower sales of Cervarix,
sales were up 29% to £417 million, led by Votrient, Promacta and as a result of some lost tenders, and some supply constraints.
the newly launched Tafinlar. Vaccines sales fell 2%, with lower
sales of Infanrix, Cervarix and flu vaccines, reflecting increased
competitive pressures, being only partly offset by sales growth
in a number of other products, including Boostrix, which was
up 26%, due in part to a competitor supply issue in the first half
of the year.
54 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines – Japan ViiV Healthcare
Turnover £bn Turnover £bn
08 08
4% 7%
07 07
06 06
of Group turnover of Group turnover
05 05
04 04
1% 15%
03 03
02 02
CER growth CER growth
01 1.2 1.1 01 1.4 1.4 1.5
0.9
0 0
2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014
Operating profit £bn Operating profit £bn
08 08
£0.5bn £1.0bn
07 07
06 06
Operating profit Operating profit
05 05
04 04
(2)% 20%
03 03
02 02
CER growth CER growth
01 01
0.7 0.6 0.5 0.8 0.9 1.0
0 0
2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014
Breakdown of turnover Breakdown of turnover
Growth Growth
£m CER % £m CER %
Respiratory 475 (2) Combivir 59 (46)
Oncology 65 17 Epzicom/Kivexa 768 8
Cardiovascular, metabolic and urology 114 14 Lexiva/Agenerase 87 (17)
Other pharmaceuticals 256 1 Selzentry 136 –
Vaccines 27 (14) Tivicay 282 >100
Triumeq 57 –
Performance
Trizivir 36 (61)
Japan Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines turnover grew 1% to
£937 million, with Pharmaceuticals sales increasing 2% and Other products 73 (39)
Vaccines sales declining by 14%. Pharmaceuticals sales benefited
Performance
from strong growth in Avodart, up 14% and Oncology products,
ViiV Healthcare turnover grew 15% to £1,498 million as the growth
up 17%. This growth was partially offset by lower sales in the
generated by Tivicay and Epzicom, together with the newly launched
Respiratory portfolio, down 2%, which was affected by a
Triumeq, more than offset the impact of generic competition to older weaker allergy season at the beginning of the year and increased
ViiV Healthcare products, including Combivir and Trizivir.
competitive pressures. The decline in Vaccines sales reflected
the impact on Cervarix of the continued suspension of the
recommendation for use of HPV vaccines, partly offset by
higher sales of Rotarix.
GSK Annual Report 2014 55Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Group financial review
continued
Established Products Consumer Healthcare
Turnover £bn Turnover £bn
08 08
13% 19%
07 07
06 06
of Group turnover of Group turnover
05 05
4.7 4.8
04 4.4 04 4.3
3.9 (16)% (1)%
03 03
3.0
02 02
CER growth CER growth
01 01
0 0
2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014
Operating profit £bn Operating profit £bn
08 08
£1.8bn £0.7bn
07 07
06 06
Operating profit Operating profit
05 05
04 04
(17)% (6)%
03 03
02 2.5 2.4 02
1.8 CER growth CER growth
01 01
0.8 0.8 0.7
0 0
2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014
Breakdown of turnover Breakdown of turnover
Growth Growth
£m CER % £m CER %
Imigran/Imitrex 172 (4) Wellness 1,596 (7)
Lamictal 531 3 Oral health 1,797 4
Lovaza 240 (57) Nutrition 633 10
Seroxat/Paxil 210 (19) Skin health 310 (11)
Valtrex 154 (24)
Performance
Zeffix 166 (3)
Consumer Healthcare turnover was £4,336 million in 2014,
Other products 1,538 (11) down 1% compared with 2013, reflecting the impact of a number
of supply interruptions during the year. Growth in Rest of World
Performance
markets of 4% was also affected by weaker market conditions,
Established Products turnover fell 16% to £3,011 million. Sales in
while sales in Europe, down 5%, and the US, down 8%, were
the US were down 31% to £854 million, Europe was down 13%
more directly the result of supply issues.
to £601 million, Emerging Markets was down 1% to £1,050 million
and Japan was down 15% to £444 million.
Generic competition to Lovaza, down 57% to £240 million,
Seroxat/Paxil, down 19% to £210 million and Valtrex, down
24% to £154 million, all contributed to the decline in the category.
56 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Pharmaceuticals turnover In Europe, Oncology grew 29% to £417 million, led by sales
of Votrient, which increased by 23% to £153 million in the year.
2013
2014 (restated) Growth Growth Promacta grew 36% to £71 million and sales of Tafinlar were
£m £m CER% £% £67 million.
Respiratory 6,181 7,289 (10 ) (15 )
In Emerging Markets and Japan, Oncology sales in the year
Oncology 1,202 969 33 24
grew 30% to £169 million and 17% to £65 million, respectively.
Cardiovascular, metabolic
Cardiovascular, metabolic and urology
and urology 965 1,073 (3) (10)
Sales in the category fell 3% to £965 million. The Avodart
Immuno-inflammation 214 161 40 33
franchise grew 1% to £805 million, with 17% growth in sales
Other pharmaceuticals 2,407 2,674 (2) (10)
of Duodart/Jalyn and a 4% decline in sales of Avodart. Levitra
ViiV Healthcare (HIV) 1,498 1,386 15 8
fell 28% to £100 million in the year. Sales of Prolia fell 10% to
Established Products 3,011 3,874 (16) (22) £41 million due to the agreement in Q2 2014 with Amgen to
15,478 17,426 (5) (11) terminate the joint commercialisation in a number of European
markets, Mexico and Russia.
Respiratory On a regional basis, the decline in the US of 16% to £364 million,
Respiratory sales in 2014 declined 10% to £6,181 million. was partly offset by Emerging Markets, up 20% to £145 million,
Seretide/Advair sales were down 15% to £4,229 million, and Japan, up 14% to £114 million. Europe was flat at £293 million.
Flixotide/Flovent sales decreased 6% to £702 million and
Ventolin sales grew 11% to £665 million. Xyzal sales, almost Immuno-inflammation
exclusively made in Japan, grew 7% to £130 million. Immuno-inflammation sales grew 40% to £214 million. Benlysta
turnover in the year was £173 million, up 25%. In the US, Benlysta
In the US, Respiratory sales declined 18% (11% volume decline sales were £155 million, up 22%.
and a 7% negative impact of price and mix), primarily reflecting the
continued price and contracting pressures in the market. Sales of Other pharmaceuticals
Advair were down 25% to £1,972 million (14% decline in volume Other therapy areas were down 2% at £2,407 million, principally
and an 11% decline of price and mix). Flovent sales were down reflecting generic competition to Dermatology products, which
6% while Ventolin sales were up 18%, primarily reflecting the primarily affected sales of Soriatane in the US, and by a decline
impact of net favourable adjustments to previous accruals for in sales of Mepron in the Rare diseases category. These declines
returns and discounts. Breo Ellipta recorded sales of £29 million were partly offset by growth in Relenza sales of 39%, primarily
and Anoro Ellipta sold £14 million in the year. in the US, and the inclusion of Theravance milestone income of
£57 million (2013 – £78 million).
European Respiratory sales were down 3%, primarily reflecting
increasing competition. Seretide sales declined 5% to ViiV Healthcare (HIV)
£1,330 million (1% decline in volume and a 4% negative impact ViiV Healthcare sales increased 15%, with the US up 28%,
of price), reflecting increasing competitive pressures and the Europe up 6%, Japan up 35% and Emerging Markets down 4%.
transition of the Respiratory portfolio to the newer products in the Tivicay recorded sales of £282 million, Epzicom/Kivexa sales
latter part of the year. Relvar Ellipta recorded sales of £18 million increased 8% to £768 million but Selzentry sales were flat at
in the year. £136 million. The launch of Triumeq is well underway and it
recorded sales of £57 million in the year. This growth was partly
Respiratory sales in Emerging Markets grew 3%. Seretide grew offset by declines in the mature portfolio, mainly driven by generic
3% to £400 million, helped by an improved performance in China. competition to both Combivir, down 46% to £59 million, and
Sales growth of Ventolin, up 8% to £165 million, and Veramyst, Trizivir, down 61% to £36 million.
up 15% to £73 million, was offset by a 33% decline in Flixonase,
which was largely driven by lower sales in China. Established Products
Established Products turnover fell 16% to £3,011 million. Sales in
In Japan, Respiratory sales fell 2% to £475 million. Sales of the the US were down 31% to £854 million, Europe was down 13%
newly launched Relvar Ellipta of £17 million offset the impact to £601 million, Emerging Markets was down 1% to £1,050 million
of increasing competitor action on Adoair, which fell 6% to and Japan was down 15% to £444 million.
£228 million. The growth in Xyzal, up 8% to £114 million,
was more than offset by lower sales elsewhere in the Generic competition to Lovaza, down 57% to £240 million,
Respiratory portfolio. Seroxat/Paxil, down 19% to £210 million and Valtrex, down 24%
to £154 million, all contributed to the decline in the category.
Oncology
Oncology sales in 2014 grew 33% to £1,202 million. Votrient
sales grew 33% to £410 million and Promacta sales grew 34%
to £231 million. Arzerra sales fell 24% to £54 million and Tykerb/
Tyverb sales fell 11% to £171 million. Generic competition to both
Hycamtin and Argatroban was more than offset by new launches,
as Tafinlar and Mekinist recorded sales of £135 million and
£68 million, respectively.
In the US, Oncology grew 41% to £509 million. Votrient sales
grew 32% to £181 million and sales of Promacta grew 32% to
£91 million. Tafinlar and Mekinist sales were £58 million and
£67 million, respectively.
GSK Annual Report 2014 57Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Group financial review
continued
Vaccines turnover New products are those launched in the last five years (2010
to 2014 inclusive). Sales of new products were £1,461 million,
2014 2013 Growth Growth
grew 84% in the year and represented 8% of Pharmaceuticals
£m £m CER% £%
and Vaccines turnover. In Q4 2014, sales of new products were
Infanrix, Pediarix 828 862 2 (4) £523 million, grew 78% and represented 10% of Pharmaceuticals
Boostrix 317 288 16 10 and Vaccines turnover.
Cervarix 118 172 (26) (31)
In Q4 2013, Breo Ellipta was launched in the US for COPD,
Fluarix, Flulaval 215 251 (9) (14)
and Relvar Ellipta was launched in Europe for COPD and asthma
Hepatitis 558 629 (6) (11)
in Q1 2014. In addition, Anoro Ellipta was launched in the US in
Rotarix 376 375 7 – April 2014 for the treatment of COPD.
Synflorix 398 405 4 (2)
In Q3 2013, Tivicay was launched in the US and subsequently
Other 382 438 (6) (13)
launched in Europe in Q1 2014. Triumeq was launched in both
Vaccines sales 3,192 3,420 (1) (7)
the US and Europe in Q3 2014.
Vaccines sales fell 1% to £3,192 million with declines in Europe,
Consumer Healthcare turnover
down 2%, and Japan, down 14% being partly offset by growth in
Emerging Markets of 1%. The US was flat. The Emerging Markets 2013
performance primarily reflected the strength of Synflorix, Boostrix 2014 (restated) Growth Growth
£m £m CER% £%
and Rotarix.
Wellness 1,596 1,865 (7) (14)
Infanrix/Pediarix grew 2% to £828 million. Growth in the US Oral health 1,797 1,884 4 (5 )
benefited from a favourable comparison with 2013, which was
Nutrition 633 627 10 1
impacted by a withdrawal from the CDC stockpile. This offset
Skin health 310 380 (11) (18)
declines in Europe and Emerging Markets.
4,336 4,756 (1) (9)
Boostrix sales increased 16% to £317 million, reflecting growth
in all regions except the US. US sales fell 7% reflecting the return 2013
of a competitor during the year and some supply constraints. 2014 (restated) Growth Growth
£m £m CER% £%
Cervarix sales declined 26% to £118 million in 2014, largely
USA 836 951 (8) (12)
reflecting declines in Emerging Markets and Japan and increasing
Europe 1,242 1,392 (5) (11)
competitive pressures, particularly in the tender market.
ROW 2,258 2,413 4 (6)
Fluarix and FluLaval sales declined 9% to £215 million due to 4,336 4,756 (1) (9)
lower production levels for 2014 and the impact of increased
competitive pressures. Consumer Healthcare turnover was down 1% in 2014, reflecting
the impact of supply issues, comparison with a strong cold and flu
Sales of hepatitis vaccines fell 6% to £558 million, in part
season in early 2013 and slowing markets in the Rest of World.
reflecting supply constraints that impacted the US and
Estimated global market growth was approximately 3%.
Emerging Markets.
Wellness
Rotarix sales were up 7% to £376 million, with growth driven by
Wellness sales were £1,596 million, down 7%, primarily due to the
tender shipments in Europe and Emerging Markets, partly offset
supply issues and product recalls that significantly impacted sales
by a decline in the US, which was impacted by a CDC stockpile
of products for Smokers Health, down 29%, and alli.
withdrawal in Q4 2014.
Oral health
Synflorix sales grew 4% to £398 million, primarily reflecting a
Oral health sales grew 4% to £1,797 million. The continued growth
strong tender performance in Emerging Markets.
of Sensodyne, up 11%, was partly offset by a 10% decline in sales
Sales from new pharmaceutical and vaccine launches of Aquafresh which was impacted by supply issues in both Europe
and the US, together with increased competition.
2014 2013 Growth Growth
£m £m CER% £% Nutrition
Pharmaceuticals: Nutrition sales grew 10% to £633 million. Horlicks was up 11%,
Respiratory: Relvar/Breo Ellipta 67 8 >100 >100 reflecting continued growth in India, and Boost was up 9%.
Anoro/Ellipta 17 – – – Skin health
Oncology: Tafinlar 135 16 >100 >100 Sales of products for Skin health were down 11% to £310 million,
Mekinist 68 10 >100 >100 primarily due to lower sales of Bactroban in China.
CVMU: Duodart/Jalyn 230 209 17 10 Regional performance
Eperzan/Tanzeum 6 – – – Sales in the US and Europe were down 8% and 5%, respectively,
Immuno- reflecting both supply issues and product recalls, primarily
inflammation: Benlysta 173 146 25 18 affecting products for Smokers Health and alli. Growth in Rest
of World markets of 4% was restricted by a slower economic
Other pharmaceuticals 9 17 (47) (49)
environment, but did reflect some growth across most markets,
ViiV Healthcare: Tivicay 282 19 >100 >100
partly offset by a 5% reduction of sales in China and a 52%
Triumeq 57 – – –
decline in sales of Smokers Health products, both primarily
Vaccines: Nimenrix 19 12 69 55 due to supply issues.
Synflorix 398 405 4 (2)
1,461 842 84 74
58 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
& remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Core results Research and development
We use the core reporting basis to manage the performance of 2013
the Group and the definition of core results is set out on page 52. 2014 (restated) Growth
A review of the Group’s total results is set out on pages 62 to 63. % of % of
The reconciliation of total results to core results is presented £m turnover £m turnover CER% £%
on page 61. Research and
development (3,113) (13.5) (3,394) (13.3) (4) (8)
Cost of sales
Core R&D expenditure declined 4% to £3,113 million (13.5%
2013
of turnover) compared with £3,394 million (13.3% of turnover) in
2014 (restated) Growth
2013. Excluding currency effects, the R&D percentage declined
% of % of
£m turnover £m turnover CER% £% 0.1 percentage points, reflecting the phasing of ongoing project
Cost of sales (6,535) (28.4) (7,075) (27.6) (3) (8) spending as well as the completion of a number of programmes
and continuing cost management benefits.
Core cost of sales as a percentage of turnover was 28.4%
compared with 27.6% in 2013. Net of adverse currency translation We remain focused on delivering an improved return on our
effects, the cost of sales percentage increased 0.2 percentage investment in R&D. Sales contribution, reduced attrition and cost
points. This reflected adverse price and mix movements, reduction are all important drivers of an improving internal rate of
particularly the decline in Pharmaceuticals sales in the US, the return. R&D expenditure is not determined as a percentage of
costs of supply remediation activities and continuing investments sales but instead capital is allocated using strict returns-based
in new launch capacity and future manufacturing technology, criteria depending on the pipeline opportunities available.
partly offset by the benefit of our ongoing cost reduction The operations of Pharmaceuticals R&D are broadly split into
programmes. Discovery activities (up to the completion of phase IIa trials) and
Selling, general and administration Development work (from phase IIb onwards) each supported by
specific and common infrastructure and other shared services
2013
2014 (restated) Growth where appropriate. Phase IV costs and other administrative
% of % of expenses are reported in SG&A and are not included in the
£m turnover £m turnover CER% £% table below.
Selling, general
The table below analyses core R&D expenditure by these
and administration (7,074) (30.7) (7,749) (30.3) (2) (9)
categories:
Core SG&A costs as a percentage of sales were 30.7%, 0.4 2013
percentage points higher than in 2013. Excluding currency effects, 2014 (restated)
£m £m
the SG&A percentage increased 0.5 percentage points, as SG&A
declined 2% on a turnover decline of 3%. The reduction in SG&A Discovery 739 742
reflected continued investments in our multiple new product Development 1,317 1,535
launches partly offset by the benefits of our restructuring Facilities and central support functions 455 449
programmes and ongoing cost management efforts. Pharmaceuticals R&D 2,511 2,726
Vaccines R&D 443 496
Advertising and promotion decreased 8% primarily reflecting
Consumer Healthcare R&D 159 172
reduced activity in the Established Products category and ongoing
cost management efforts which were partly offset by new product Research and development 3,113 3,394
launches. Selling and distribution decreased 2% as investments
The proportion of Pharmaceuticals R&D investment made in the
in product launches were offset by savings in from our ongoing
late-stage portfolio decreased from 56% of Pharmaceuticals R&D
cost reduction programmes. General and administration expenses
costs in 2013 to 52% in 2014, reflecting the completion of a
increased 1% primarily due to higher phase IV expenditure, partly
number of late-stage programmes.
offset by benefits from the restructuring programmes.
Royalty income
Royalty income was £310 million (2013 – £387 million) reflecting
the conclusion of a number of royalty agreements. 2013 also
included a prior year catch-up adjustment.
GSK Annual Report 2014 59Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Group financial review
continued
Core operating profit by business Net finance costs
2013 2014 2013
2014 (restated) Growth Finance income £m £m
Margin Margin Interest and other income 66 59
£m % £m % CER% £%
Fair value movements 2 2
Pharmaceuticals 5,368 34.7 6,472 37.1 (9) (17)
68 61
Vaccines 1,129 35.4 1,097 32.1 13 3
Pharmaceuticals
Finance expense
and Vaccines 6,497 34.8 7,569 36.3 (6) (14)
Interest expense (688) (726)
Consumer
Unwinding of discounts on liabilities (2) –
Healthcare 657 15.2 829 17.4 (6) (21)
Remeasurements and fair value movements (10) (5)
7,154 31.1 8,398 32.8 (6) (15)
Other finance expense (14) (22)
Corporate & other
unallocated costs (560) (627) (2) (11) (714) (753)
Core operating profit 6,594 28.7 7,771 30.4 (6) (15) Core net finance expense was £646 million compared with
£692 million in 2013, reflecting GSK’s strategy to improve the
Core operating profit by segment funding profile of the Group, despite average net debt in 2014
2013 being marginally higher than in 2013.
2014 (restated) Growth
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures
% of % of
£m turnover £m turnover CER% £% The share of profits of associates and joint ventures was
Pharmaceuticals and £30 million (2013 – £43 million), reflecting the reduced
Vaccines shareholding in the Aspen group, currency movements and
a number of one-off adjustments.
USA 3,173 63.7 3,955 68.0 (16 ) (20 )
Europe 2,205 54.6 2,277 53.9 2 (3) Core profit before taxation
Emerging Markets 993 31.0 986 29.3 16 1 2013
Japan 466 49.7 568 53.7 (2) (18) 2014 (restated) Growth
% of % of
ViiV Healthcare 977 65.2 885 63.9 20 10 £m turnover £m turnover CER% £%
Established Products 1,793 59.5 2,352 60.7 (17) (24) Core profit before tax 5,978 26.0 7,122 27.8 (6) (16)
Pharmaceutical R&D(2,708) (2,823) – (4)
Taxation
Other trading and Tax on core profit amounted to £1,172 million and reflected an
unallocated effective core tax rate of 19.6% (2013 – 23.0%). The reduction
pharmaceuticals (402) (40.0) (631) (56.6) (37) (36) in the effective rate included the resolution of a number of matters
Pharmaceuticals and that benefited the year, and an increase in the benefit of intellectual
Vaccines 6,497 34.8 7,569 36.3 (6) (14) property incentives.
Consumer Healthcare 657 15.2 829 17.4 (6) (21)
Core earnings per share
7,154 31.1 8,398 32.8 (6) (15)
Core EPS of 95.4p decreased 1% in CER terms compared
Corporate & other with a 6% decline in the operating profit as a result of financial
unallocated costs (560) (627) (2) (11) efficiencies.
Core operating profit 6,594 28.7 7,771 30.4 (6) (15)
Dividend
Core operating profit was £6,594 million, 6% lower than in 2013 The Board declared four interim dividends resulting in a dividend
in CER terms on a turnover decline of 3%. The core operating for the year of 80 pence, a 2 pence increase on the dividend for
margin of 28.7% was 1.7 percentage points lower than in 2013. 2013. See Note 16 to the financial statements, ‘Dividends’.
Excluding currency effects, the margin decreased 0.8 percentage
Profit forecast
points. This primarily reflected an increase in SG&A as a
The Class 1 Circular dated 20 November 2014, issued to
percentage of sales and lower royalty income. SG&A costs shareholders in connection with the proposed three-part
declined 2% driven by targeted cost management and the benefit
transaction with Novartis included the following profit forecast in
of ongoing restructuring programmes. SG&A also included the
respect of 2014: “In 2014, GSK expects to deliver full year core
credit reported in Q3 2014 of £219 million from a release of EPS on a CER and ex-divestment basis broadly similar to last year
reserves following simplification of the Group’s entity structure
(from a 2013 base of 108.4p adjusted for divestments completed
and our trading arrangements. Structural savings of approximately
during 2013).”
£280 million were realised in 2013.
The actual results were that core EPS for 2014 declined 1% CER,
broadly in line with last year excluding divestments completed
in 2013.
60 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Core results reconciliation – 31 December 2014
Acquisition
Core Intangible Intangible Major Legal accounting Total
results amortisation impairment restructuring charges and other results
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 23,006 23,006
Cost of sales (6,535) (503) (78) (204) (3) (7,323)
Gross profit 16,471 (503) (78) (204) (3) 15,683
Selling, general and administration (7,074) (430) (548) (194) (8,246)
Research and development (3,113) (72) (72) (116) (77) (3,450)
Royalty income 310 310
Other operating income – (700) (700)
Operating profit 6,594 (575) (150) (750) (548) (974) 3,597
Net finance costs (646) (5) (8) (659)
Share of after tax profits of
associates and joint ventures 30 30
Profit before taxation 5,978 (575) (150) (755) (548) (982) 2,968
Taxation (1,172) 209 29 215 26 556 (137)
Tax rate 19.6% 4.6%
Profit after taxation 4,806 (366) (121) (540) (522) (426) 2,831
Profit attributable to
non-controlling interests 222 (147) 75
Profit attributable to shareholders 4,584 (366) (121) (540) (522) (279) 2,756
Earnings per share 95.4p (7.6)p (2.5)p (11.3)p (10.9)p (5.8)p 57.3p
Weighted average number of shares (millions) 4,808 4,808
Core results reconciliation – 31 December 2013 (restated)
Core results Acquisition
(before Core Intangible Intangible Major Legal accounting Total
divestments) Divestments results amortisation impairment restructuring charges and other results
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 25,602 903 26,505 26,505
Cost of sales (7,075) (474) (7,549) (450) (408) (178) (8,585)
Gross profit 18,527 429 18,956 (450) (408) (178) 17,920
Selling, general and administration (7,749) (179) (7,928) (300) (252) (8,480)
Research and development (3,394) (6) (3,400) (97) (331) (39) (56) (3,923)
Royalty income 387 387 387
Other operating income – – 1,124 1,124
Operating profit 7,771 244 8,015 (547) (739) (517) (252) 1,068 7,028
Net finance costs (692) (692) (6) (8) (706)
Profit on disposal of interest in
associates and joint ventures – – 282 282
Share of after tax profits of
associates and joint ventures 43 43 43
Profit before taxation 7,122 244 7,366 (547) (739) (523) (252) 1,342 6,647
Taxation (1,635) (60) (1,695) 149 226 145 9 147 (1,019)
Tax rate 23.0% 23.0% 15.3%
Profit after taxation 5,487 184 5,671 (398) (513) (378) (243) 1,489 5,628
Profit attributable to
non-controlling interests 250 250 (58) 192
Profit attributable to shareholders 5,237 184 5,421 (398) (513) (378) (243) 1,547 5,436
Earnings per share 108.4p 3.8p 112.2p (8.2)p (10.7)p (7.8)p (5.0)p 32.0p 112.5p
Weighted average number of
shares (millions) 4,831 4,831
GSK Annual Report 2014 61Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Group financial review
continued
Total results Other operating income
Net other operating expense of £700 million (2013 - £1,124 million
2014 2013 Growth
income) included, following the improved sales performance of
% of % of
£m turnover £m turnover CER% £% Tivicay and Triumeq, an increase in the liability for the contingent
Turnover 23,006 100 26,505 100 (7) (13) consideration for the acquisition of the former Shionogi-ViiV
Cost of sales (7,323) (31.8) (8,585) (32.4) (11) (15) Healthcare joint venture which has increased to £1.7 billion,
Selling, general resulting in a charge for the year of £768 million (2013 – £253
million). The liability represents the present value of expected
and administration (8,246) (35.8) (8,480) (32.0) 4 (3)
future payments to Shionogi. These will be paid over a number
Research and
of years and will vary in line with sales of products that contain
development (3,450) (15.0) (3,923) (14.8) (8) (12)
dolutegravir. The net income in 2013 included profits from the
Royalty income 310 1.3 387 1.5 (18) (20)
disposals of the Lucozade and Ribena business and certain
Other operating
anti-coagulant products, which in aggregate were £1,331 million.
income (700) (3.1) 1,124 4.2 >(100)>(100)
Operating profit 3,597 15.6 7,028 26.5 (40) (49) Following announcement of the proposed Novartis transaction,
GSK entered into a number of forward exchange contracts to
Net finance costs (659) (706)
protect the Sterling value of the net US Dollar proceeds due to the
Profit on disposal of
Group on completion of the transaction. At 31 December 2014
interest in associates – 282
these contracts were in a loss position and resulted in the
Share of after tax
recognition of an unrealised loss in 2014 of £299 million which
profits of associates has been included in net other operating expense. If these
and joint ventures 30 43 contracts remain in a loss position on maturity, that loss will partly
Profit before taxation 2,968 6,647 (46) (55) offset the gain in the expected Sterling value of the proceeds that
Taxation (137) (1,019) will be received by the Group as a result of favourable exchange
Total profit after movements since the inception of the forward contracts. If, on
taxation for the year 2,831 5,628 (41) (50) maturity, the contracts are in a gain position, the gains will partly
Total profit attributable offset losses in the Sterling value of the proceeds that will be
received by the Group as a result of unfavourable exchange
to shareholders 2,756 5,436
movements since the inception of the forward contracts.
Earnings per share (p) 57.3 112.5 (40) (49)
Earnings per ADS Operating profit
(US$) 1.89 3.53 Total operating profit was £3,597 million compared with
£7,028 million in 2013. The non-core items resulted in a net charge
Cost of sales of £2,997 million (2013 – £987 million, excluding trading profits on
Cost of sales as a percentage of turnover was 31.8% compared products divested in 2013). The 2013 net charge included the
with 32.4% in 2013. Net of adverse currency translation effects, profits on the disposals of Lucozade and Ribena business and the
the cost of sales percentage decreased 1.3 percentage points. anti-coagulant products, which in aggregate were £1,331 million.
This reflected adverse price and mix movements, particularly the
The intangible asset amortisation increased to £575 million
decline in Pharmaceuticals sales in the US, the costs of supply
(2013 – £547 million), reflecting the accelerated amortisation of
remediation activities and continuing investments in new launch
Lovaza. Intangible asset impairments of £150 million (2013 –
capacity and future manufacturing technology, more than offset
£739 million) included write-offs of several R&D and commercial
by lower intangible write-offs and the benefit of our ongoing cost
assets.
reduction programmes and lower intangible impairments.
Major restructuring charges of £750 million (2013 – £517 million)
Selling, general and administration
included £101 million under the Operational Excellence programme,
SG&A costs as a percentage of sales were 35.8%, 3.8
£334 million under the Major Change programme and £243 million
percentage points higher than in 2013. Excluding currency effects,
under the new Pharmaceuticals restructuring programme.
the SG&A percentage increased 3.7 percentage points, as SG&A
increased 4% on a turnover decline of 7%. The increase in SG&A The Operational Excellence programme initiated on 2007 and
reflected continued investments in our multiple new product expanded in 2009, 2010 and 2011 was substantially complete at
launches, higher legal costs, restructuring costs and a charge of the end of 2014 at a total cost of £4.7 billion and delivered annual
£114 million for an additional, catch-up year of the US Branded pre-tax savings of approximately £2.9 billion. The Major Change
Prescription Drug fee in accordance with the final regulations programme, announced in 2013, focuses on opportunities to
issued by the IRS in Q3 2014, partly offset by the benefits of our simplify our supply chain processes, build the Group’s capabilities
restructuring programmes and ongoing cost management efforts. in manufacturing and R&D, and restructure our European
Pharmaceuticals business. The programme is expected to
Advertising and promotion decreased 11% reflecting reduced
cost £1.5 billion, of which non-cash charges are expected to be
activity in the Established Products category and ongoing cost
£350 million. It has delivered approximately £0.6 billion of annual
management efforts which were partly offset by new product
savings and remains on track to deliver annual pre-tax savings of
launches. Selling and distribution decreased 4% as investments
at least £1.0 billion by 2016.
in product launches were offset by savings in Established
Products. General and administration expenses increased 20% The new Pharmaceuticals restructuring programme, announced in
due to higher phase IV expenditure, legal and restructuring costs, October 2014, will rescale commercial operations, global support
partly offset by restructuring benefits. functions and the relevant R&D/manufacturing operations across
Pharmaceuticals. The programme is expected to cost £1.5 billion,
Research and development
predominantly in cash charges. Approximately £1 billion of new
R&D expenditure declined 8% to £3,450 million (15.0% of
annual cost savings are expected over the next three years, with
turnover) compared with £3,923 million (14.8% of turnover) in
around 50% delivered in 2016.
2013. Excluding currency effects, the R&D percentage declined
0.2 percentage points, reflecting lower intangible write-offs, the Legal charges of £548 million (2013 – £252 million) included a
phasing of ongoing project spending as well as the completion £301 million fine paid to the Chinese government, settlement of
of a number of programmes and continuing cost management existing anti-trust matters and higher litigation costs.
benefits and lower intangible impairments.
62 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Acquisition accounting and other adjustments resulted in a net
Critical accounting policies
charge of £974 million (2013 – income of £1,068 million) and
included the increase in the liability for the contingent consideration
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance
for the acquisition of the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint
with IFRS, as adopted for use in the European Union, and also
venture of £768 million (2013 – £253 million). The net credit in
with IFRS as issued by the IASB, following the accounting policies
2013 included profits on the disposal of Lucozade and Ribena
approved by the Board and described in Note 2 to the financial
business and the anti-coagulant products, which in aggregate were
statements, ‘Accounting principles and policies’.
£1,331 million. Other items also included charges related to major
acquisitions, equity investment and asset disposals, one-off required We are required to make estimates and assumptions that affect
regulatory charges in R&D and certain other adjusting items. the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses reported
in the financial statements. Actual amounts and results could differ
Net finance costs
from those estimates.
2014 2013
Finance income £m £m The critical accounting policies, for which information on the
Interest and other finance income 66 59 judgements and estimates made is given in Note 3 to the financial
Fair value movements 2 2 statements, ‘Key accounting judgements and estimates’, and in
the relevant detailed notes to the financial statements as indicated
68 61
below, relate to the following areas:
Finance expense • Turnover
Interest expense (688) (726) • Taxation (Note 14)
Unwinding of discounts on liabilities (15) (14) • Legal and other disputes (Notes 29 and 45)
Remeasurements and fair value movements (10) (5) • Impairments of goodwill and other intangible assets
Other finance expense (14) (22) (Notes 18 and 19)
• Business combinations (Note 38)
(727) (767)
• Pensions and other post-employment benefits (Note 28).
Profit on disposal of interest in associates Information on the judgements and estimates made in these areas
The pre-tax profit on disposals of associates was nil (2013 – is given in Note 3 to the financial statements, ‘Key accounting
£282 million). The 2013 profit reflected the disposal of 28.2 million judgements and estimates’.
ordinary shares in Aspen Pharmacare for £429 million. Turnover
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures In respect of the Turnover accounting policy, our largest business
The share of after tax profits of associates of £30 million is US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines, and the US market has
(2013 – £43 million) principally arose from the Group’s holdings the most complex arrangements for rebates, discounts and
in Aspen Pharmacare. allowances. The following briefly describes the nature of the
arrangements in existence in our US Pharmaceuticals and
Profit before taxation Vaccines business:
Taking account of net finance costs, the profit on disposal of
interest in associates and the share of profit in associates, profit • We have arrangements with certain indirect customers whereby
before taxation was £2,968 million compared with £6,647 million the customer is able to buy products from wholesalers at
in 2013, a 46% CER decrease and a 55% decrease in sterling reduced prices. A chargeback represents the difference
terms. between the invoice price to the wholesaler and the indirect
customer’s contractual discounted price. Accruals for estimating
Taxation chargebacks are calculated based on the terms of each
2014 2013 agreement, historical experience and product growth rates
£m £m
• Customer rebates are offered to key managed care and group
UK current taxation (251) 265
purchasing organisations (GPO) and other direct and indirect
Overseas current taxation 993 1,284
customers. These arrangements require the customer to achieve
Total current taxation 742 1,549
certain performance targets relating to the value of product
Total deferred taxation (605) (530) purchased, formulary status or pre-determined market shares
Taxation on total profits 137 1,019 relative to competitors. The accrual for customer rebates is
estimated based on the specific terms in each agreement,
The charge for taxation on total profits amounted to £137 million historical experience and product growth rates
and represented a total effective tax rate of 4.6% (2013 – 15.3%),
reflecting the differing tax effects of the various non-core items, • The US Medicaid programme is a state-administered
including a number of non-recurring tax only items. programme providing assistance to certain poor and vulnerable
patients. In 1990, the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program
Tax relating to acquisition accounting and other adjustments was established to reduce state and federal expenditure
included deferred tax on the increased liability for the expected on prescription drugs. In 2010, the Patient Protection and
future payments to Shionogi; recognition of a deferred tax asset Affordable Care Act became law. We participate by providing
in respect of tax losses expected to be used on completion of the rebates to states. Accruals for Medicaid rebates are calculated
Novartis transaction, and tax credits arising on the resolution of a based on the specific terms of the relevant regulations or the
number of tax matters with tax authorities, including matters related Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act
to prior year acquisitions or disposals.
• Cash discounts are offered to customers to encourage prompt
The UK current tax credit includes a benefit from resolution of a payment. These are accrued for at the time of invoicing and
number of tax matters and other prior year adjustments. adjusted subsequently to reflect actual experience
Earnings per share • We record an accrual for estimated sales returns by applying
Total EPS was 57.3p, compared with 112.5p in 2013 which historical experience of customer returns to the amounts invoiced,
included 33.8p arising from gains on equity investment and asset together with market related information such as stock levels at
disposals. Of the remaining difference, 10.4p was due to currency. wholesalers, anticipated price increases and competitor activity.
GSK Annual Report 2014 63Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Group financial review
continued
A reconciliation of gross turnover to net turnover for the US Legal and other disputes
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines business is as follows: In respect of the accounting policy for Legal and other disputes,
the following briefly describes the process by which we determine
2013 2012
2014 (restated) (restated) the level of provision that is necessary.
Margin Margin Margin In accordance with the requirements of IAS 37, ‘Provisions,
£m % £m % £m %
contingent liabilities and contingent assets’, we provide for
Gross turnover 7,883 100 8,399 100 7,964 100
anticipated settlement costs where an outflow of resources is
considered probable and a reliable estimate may be made of the
Market driven likely outcome of the dispute and legal and other expenses arising
segments (1,205) (15) (976) (12) (873) (11) from claims against the Group. We may become involved in
Government significant legal proceedings, in respect of which it is not possible
mandated and state to make a reliable estimate of the expected financial effect, if any,
programs (1,459) (19) (1,273) (15) (1,255) (16) that could result from ultimate resolution of the proceedings. In
these cases, appropriate disclosure about such cases would be
Cash discounts (139) (2) (152) (2) (142) (2)
included in the Annual Report, but no provision would be made.
Customer
returns (58) (1) (69) (1) (91) (1) This position could change over time and, therefore, there can be
Prior year no assurance that any losses that result from the outcome of any
legal proceedings will not exceed by a material amount the amount
adjustments 130 2 69 1 51 1
of the provisions reported in the Group’s financial statements.
Other items (172) (2) (181) (2) (146) (2)
Total deductions (2,903) (37) (2,582) (31) (2,456) (31) Like many pharmaceutical companies, we are faced with various
Net turnover 4,980 63 5,817 69 5,508 69 complex product liability, anti-trust and patent litigation, as well as
investigations of its operations conducted by various governmental
Market driven segments consist primarily of Managed Care and regulatory agencies. Throughout the year, the General Counsel
Medicare plans with which GSK negotiates contract pricing that of the Group, as head of the Group’s legal function, and the
is honoured via rebates and chargebacks. Mandated segments Senior Vice President and Head of Global Litigation for the Group,
consist primarily of Medicaid and Federal government programs who is responsible for all litigation and government investigations,
which receive government mandated pricing via rebates and routinely brief the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial
chargebacks. Officer and the Board of Directors on the significant litigation
pending against the Group and governmental investigations
The balance sheet accruals for rebates, discounts, allowances
of the Group.
and returns for the US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines business
and the US element of Established Products are managed on These meetings, as appropriate, detail the status of significant
a combined basis. At 31 December 2014, the total accrual litigation and government investigations and review matters such
amounted to £1,308 million (2013 – £1,188 million). as the number of claims notified to us, information on potential
claims not yet notified, assessment of the validity of claims,
A monthly process is operated to monitor inventory levels at
progress made in settling claims, recent settlement levels and
wholesalers for any abnormal movements. This process uses gross
potential reimbursement by insurers.
sales volumes, prescription volumes based on third party data
sources and information received from key wholesalers. The aim The meetings also include an assessment of whether or not
of this is to maintain inventories at a consistent level from year to there is sufficient information available for us to be able to make
year based on the pattern of consumption. a reliable estimate of the potential outcomes of the disputes.
Often, external counsel assisting us with various litigation matters
On this basis, US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines inventory levels
and investigations will also assist in the briefing of the Board and
at wholesalers and in other distribution channels at 31 December
senior management. Following these discussions, for those
2014 were estimated to amount to approximately five weeks of
matters where it is possible to make a reliable estimate of the
turnover. This calculation uses third party information, the accuracy
amount of a provision, if any, that may be required, the level of
of which cannot be totally verified, but is believed to be sufficiently
provision for legal and other disputes is reviewed and adjusted
reliable for this purpose.
as appropriate.
64 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Property, plant and equipment
Financial position and resources
Our business is science-based, technology-intensive and highly
2014 2013 regulated by governmental authorities. We allocate significant
£m £m financial resources to the renewal and maintenance of our property,
Assets plant and equipment to minimise risks of interruption of production
Non-current assets and to achieve compliance with regulatory standards. A number of
Property, plant and equipment 9,052 8,872 our processes use chemicals and hazardous materials.
Goodwill 3,724 4,205 The total cost of our property, plant and equipment at 31
Other intangible assets 8,320 9,283 December 2014 was £19,355 million, with a net book value
Investments in associates and joint ventures 340 323 of £9,052 million. Of this, land and buildings represented
£3,667 million, plant and equipment £2,392 million and assets in
Other investments 1,114 1,202
construction £2,993 million. In 2014, we invested £1,261 million
Deferred tax assets 2,688 2,084
in new and renewal property, plant and equipment. This is mainly
Derivative financial instruments – 1 related to a large number of projects for the renewal, improvement
Other non-current assets 735 889 and expansion of facilities at various worldwide sites. Property
Total non-current assets 25,973 26,859 is mainly held freehold. New investment is financed from our
liquid resources. At 31 December 2014, we had contractual
Current assets
commitments for future capital expenditure of £459 million and
Inventories 4,231 3,900 operating lease commitments of £701 million. We believe that
Current tax recoverable 138 129 our facilities are adequate for our current needs.
Trade and other receivables 4,600 5,442
We observe stringent procedures and use specialist skills to
Derivative financial instruments 146 155 manage environmental risks from our activities. Environmental
Liquid investments 69 66 issues, sometimes dating from operations now modified or
Cash and cash equivalents 4,338 5,534 discontinued, are reported under ‘Our Planet’ on page 46 and
Assets held for sale 1,156 1 in Note 45 to the financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’.
Total current assets 14,678 15,227 Goodwill
Total assets 40,651 42,086 Goodwill decreased during the year to £3,724 million at
December 2014, from £4,205 million. The decrease reflects
Liabilities
the goodwill allocated to the oncology business and transferred
Current liabilities to assets held for sale following the decision to sell the business
Short-term borrowings (2,943) (2,789) to Novartis.
Trade and other payables (7,958) (8,317)
Other intangible assets
Derivative financial instruments (404) (127)
Other intangible assets include the cost of intangibles acquired
Current tax payable (945) (1,452) from third parties and computer software. The net book value
Short-term provisions (1,045) (992) of other intangible assets as at 31 December 2014 was £8,320
Total current liabilities (13,295) (13,677) million (2013 – £9,283 million). The decrease in 2014 reflected
a transfer of £506 million to assets held for sale to reflect the
Non-current liabilities proposed Novartis transaction, capitalised development costs
Long-term borrowings (15,841) (15,456) of £242 million and the amortisation and impairment of existing
Deferred tax liabilities (445) (693) intangibles of £704 million and £157 million, respectively.
Pensions and other post-employment benefits (3,179) (2,189)
Investments
Other provisions (545) (552) We held investments, including associates and joint ventures,
Derivative financial instruments (9) (3) with a carrying value at 31 December 2014 of £1,454 million
Other non-current liabilities (2,401) (1,704) (2013 – £1,525 million). The market value at 31 December 2014
Total non-current liabilities (22,420) (20,597) was £2,502 million (2013 – £2,212 million). The largest of these
Total liabilities (35,715) (34,274) investments are in an associate, Aspen Pharmacare Holdings
Limited, which had a book value at 31 December 2014 of
Net assets 4,936 7,812
£274 million (2013 – £229 million) and investments in Theravance,
Equity Inc. and Theravance Biopharma, Inc. which have a book value at
Share capital 1,339 1,336 31 December 2014 of £367 million (2013 – £644 million).
The investments include equity stakes in companies with
Share premium account 2,759 2,595
which we have research collaborations, which provide access
Retained earnings (2,074) 913
to biotechnology developments of potential interest and interests
Other reserves 2,239 2,153
in companies that arise from business divestments.
Shareholders’ equity 4,263 6,997
Non-controlling interests 673 815
Total equity 4,936 7,812
GSK Annual Report 2014 65Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Group financial review
continued
Derivative financial instruments: assets Net debt
We had both non-current and current derivative financial
2014 2013
instruments held at fair value of £146 million (2013 – £156 million). £m £m
The majority of this amount related to interest rate swaps and Cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments 4,407 5,600
foreign exchange contracts both designated and non-designated
Borrowings – repayable within one year (2,943) (2,789)
(inter-company loans and deposits) as accounting hedges.
Borrowings – repayable after one year (15,841) (15,456)
Inventories Net debt (14,377) (12,645)
Inventory of £4,231 million increased by £331 million during the year.
Net debt increased by £1,732 million and reflected the aggregate
The increase primarily reflected the impact of stock building for new
consideration of £650 million paid to increase the shareholding in
product launches and remediation of the Consumer Healthcare
the Group’s Indian pharmaceutical subsidiary from 50.7% to 75%
supply chain, partly offset by a favourable exchange impact.
and the acquisition of the remaining 30% of the Group’s
Trade and other receivables Indonesian Consumer Healthcare business held by a third party,
Trade and other receivables of £4,600 million decreased from together with a reduction in cash generated from operations.
2013 reflecting the receipt of the deferred receivable from Aspen
The Group’s cash generation and liquidity enabled the payment
in respect of the inventory and a manufacturing site which formed
of ordinary dividends of £3,843 million and share repurchases
part of the disposal of the anti-coagulants products business in
of £238 million.
2013, together with improved recoveries of receivables in various
markets and favourable exchange impacts. Movements in net debt
Derivative financial instruments: liabilities 2014 2013
We held both non-current and current derivative financial £m £m
instruments at fair value of £413 million (2013 – £130 million). Net debt at beginning of year (12,645) (14,037)
This primarily related to foreign exchange contracts both (Decrease)/increase in cash and bank overdrafts (1,287) 1,473
designated and non-designated (inter-company loans and Decrease in liquid investments (1) (15)
deposits, acquisitions and disposals, external debt and legal Net increase in long-term loans (1,960) (1,913)
provisions) as accounting hedges.
Net repayment of short-term loans 1,709 1,872
Trade and other payables Debt of subsidiary undertakings acquired – (6)
Trade and other payables amounting to £7,958 million decreased Exchange movements (193) (34)
from £8,317 million in 2013, reflecting the effect of the increased Other movements – 15
shareholding in the Group’s Indian Pharmaceutical subsidiary
Net debt at end of year (14,377) (12,645)
accrued in 2013 partly offset by the effect of an increase in the
returns and rebates accrual together with a favourable exchange Total equity
impact. At 31 December 2014, total equity had decreased from £7,812
Provisions million at 31 December 2013 to £4,936 million. The decrease arose
We carried deferred tax provisions and other short-term and principally from an increase in the pension deficit of £1,076 million
non-current provisions of £2,035 million at 31 December 2014 and the impact of dividends paid out in the year.
(2013 – £2,237 million) in respect of estimated future liabilities, A summary of the movements in equity is set out below.
of which £520 million (2013 – £646 million) related to legal
2014 2013
and other disputes. Provision has been made for legal and
£m £m
other disputes, indemnified disposal liabilities, employee
Total equity at beginning of year 7,812 6,737
related liabilities and the costs of restructuring programmes
Total comprehensive income for the year 1,081 6,215
to the extent that at the balance sheet date a legal or
constructive obligation existed and could be reliably estimated. Dividends to shareholders (3,843) (3,680)
Shares issued 167 585
Pensions and other post-employment benefits
Changes in non-controlling interests (86) (625)
We account for pension and other post-employment
Forward contract relating to non-controlling
arrangements in accordance with IAS 19. The deficits,
interest 21 –
net of surpluses before allowing for deferred taxation were
£1,689 million (2013 – £613 million) on pension arrangements Shares purchased and cancelled or held
and £1,397 million (2013 – £1,246 million) on unfunded as Treasury shares (238) (1,504)
post-employment liabilities. The increases in the deficits Shares acquired by ESOP Trusts (95) (45)
were predominantly driven by lower discount rates that we Share-based incentive plans 326 294
used to discount the value of the liabilities. Tax on share-based incentive plans (4) 73
In December 2010, the UK scheme purchased an insurance Distributions to non-controlling interests (205) (238)
contract that will guarantee payment of specified pensioner Total equity at end of year 4,936 7,812
liabilities. This contract was valued at £803 million at
31 December 2014.
Other non-current liabilities
Other non-current liabilities of £2,401 million at 31 December
2014 (2013 – £1,704 million) include £1,619 million
(2013 – £958 million) of contingent consideration payable,
primarily in respect of the acquisition in 2012 of the former
Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture.
66 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Share purchases Commitments in respect of loans and future interest payable
In 2014, the Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) on loans are disclosed before taking into account the effect
Trusts acquired £95 million of shares in GlaxoSmithKline plc of derivatives.
(2013 – £45 million). Shares are held by the Trusts to satisfy future
We have entered into a number of research collaborations to exercises of options and awards under the Group share option and
develop new compounds with other pharmaceutical companies.
award schemes. A proportion of the shares held by the Trusts are
The terms of these arrangements can include upfront fees, equity
in respect of awards where the rules of the scheme require us to
investments, loans and commitments to fund specified levels of
satisfy exercises through market purchases rather than the issue of
research. In addition, we will often agree to make further payments
new shares. The shares held by the Trusts are matched to options
if future ‘milestones’ are achieved.
and awards granted. During 2014, the company also transferred
£150 million of Treasury shares into the Trust. As some of these agreements relate to compounds in the early
stages of development, the potential obligation to make milestone
At 31 December 2014, the ESOP Trusts held 53 million
payments will continue for a number of years if the compounds
(2013 – 64 million) GSK shares against the future exercise
move successfully through the development process. Generally,
of share options and share awards. The carrying value of
the closer the product is to marketing approval, the greater the
£151 million (2013 – £355 million) has been deducted from
probability of success. The amounts shown above within
other reserves. The market value of these shares was
intangible assets represent the maximum that would be paid
£726 million (2013 – £1,025 million).
if all milestones were achieved, and include £5.7 billion which
During 2014, 14.7 million shares were repurchased at a cost relates to externalised projects in the discovery portfolio.
of £238 million (see Note 33 ‘Share capital and share premium A number of new commitments were made in 2014 under
account’). At 31 December 2014, we held 491.5 million shares licensing and other agreements, including an arrangement
as Treasury shares (2013 – 487.4 million shares), at a cost of with Adaptimmune Ltd.
£6,917 million (2013 – £6,829 million), which has been
In 2013, we reached an agreement with the trustees of the
deducted from retained earnings.
UK pension schemes to make additional contributions over a
Following the completion of the Novartis transaction, expected three year period, including in 2013, to eliminate the pension
to be in the week commencing 2 March 2015, we intend to return deficit identified at the 31 December 2011 actuarial funding
to shareholders £4 billion of the net proceeds. The company does valuation. If the deficit persists, further contributions would be
not expect to make any ordinary share repurchases in 2015. payable in the following four years depending on the level of deficit.
No ordinary shares were purchased in the period 1 January 2015 The table above includes this commitment but excludes the normal
to 19 February 2015. ongoing annual funding requirement in the UK of approximately
£100 million. For further information on pension obligations, see
Commitments and contingent liabilities
Note 28 to the financial statements, ‘Pensions and other post-
Financial commitments are summarised in Note 40 to the financial employment benefits’.
statements, ‘Commitments’. Other contingent liabilities and
obligations in respect of short and long-term debt are set out Contingent liabilities
in Note 31 to the financial statements, ‘Contingent liabilities’ The following table sets out contingent liabilities, comprising
and Note 32 to the financial statements, ‘Net debt’. discounted bills, performance guarantees, letters of credit and
other items arising in the normal course of business, and when
Amounts provided for pensions and post-retirement benefits are
they are expected to expire.
set out in Note 28 to the financial statements, ‘Pensions and other
post-employment benefits’. Amounts provided for restructuring
Total Under 1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs+
programmes and legal, environmental and other disputes are set £m £m £m £m £m
out in Note 29 to the financial statements, ‘Other provisions’. Guarantees 87 78 3 – 6
Contractual obligations and commitments Other contingent liabilities 98 9 26 12 51
The following table sets out our contractual obligations and Total 185 87 29 12 57
commitments at 31 December 2014 as they fall due for payment.
In the normal course of business, we have provided various
indemnification guarantees in respect of business disposals
Total Under 1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs+
£m £m £m £m £m in which legal and other disputes have subsequently arisen.
Loans 18,839 2,917 3,052 2,926 9,944 A provision is made where an outflow of resources is considered
Interest on loans 9,744 678 1,234 944 6,888 probable and a reliable estimate can be made of the likely outcome
of the dispute and this is included in Note 29 to the financial
Finance lease obligations 85 29 39 15 2
statements, ‘Other provisions’.
Finance lease charges 6 2 3 1 –
Operating lease We provide for the outcome of tax, legal and other disputes when
commitments 701 138 164 102 297 an outflow of resources is considered probable and a reliable
estimate of the outflow may be made. At 31 December 2014,
Intangible assets 7,079 320 1,037 1,091 4,631
other than for those disputes where provision has been made,
Property, plant & equipment 359 324 35 – –
it was not possible to make a reliable estimate of the potential
Investments 100 39 47 9 5
outflow of funds that might be required to settle disputes where
Purchase commitments 428 142 265 21 – the possibility of there being an outflow was more than remote.
Pensions 425 85 170 170 –
The ultimate liability for such matters may vary significantly from
Other commitments 186 70 91 21 4
the amounts provided and is dependent upon the outcome of
Total 37,952 4,744 6,137 5,300 21,771 litigation proceedings and negotiations with the relevant tax
authorities. This is discussed further in ‘Risk factors’ on pages
232 to 241 and Notes 14 and 45 to the financial statements,
‘Taxation’ and ‘Legal proceedings’.
GSK Annual Report 2014 67Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Group financial review
continued
Cash generation and conversion Investment appraisal
A summary of the consolidated cash flow is set out below. We have a formal process for assessing potential investment
proposals in order to ensure decisions are aligned with our overall
2014 2013
£m £m strategy. This process includes an assessment of the cash flow
Net cash inflow from operating activities 5,176 7,222 return on investment (CFROI), as well as its net present value
Net cash (outflow)/inflow from investing activities (1,078) 524 (NPV) and internal rate of return (IRR) where the timeline for the
project is very long term. We also consider the impact on earnings
Net cash outflow from financing activities (5,385) (6,273)
and credit profile where relevant.
(Decrease)/increase in cash and bank overdrafts (1,287) 1,473
The discount rate used to perform financial analyses is decided
Cash and bank overdrafts at beginning of year 5,231 3,906
internally, to allow determination of the extent to which investments
(Decrease)/increase in cash and bank overdrafts (1,287) 1,473 cover our cost of capital. For specific investments the discount rate
Exchange adjustments 84 (148) may be adjusted to take into account country or other risk weightings.
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year 4,028 5,231
Capital expenditure and financial investment
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year Cash payments for tangible and intangible fixed assets amounted
comprise: to £1,751 million (2013 - £1,701 million) and disposals realised
£594 million (2013 – £2,033 million). Cash payments to acquire
Cash and cash equivalents 4,338 5,534
equity investments of £83 million (2013 – £133 million) were made
Overdrafts (310) (303)
in the year and sales of equity investments realised £205 million
4,028 5,231
(2013 – £59 million).
The net cash inflow from operating activities for the year was Future cash flow
£5,176 million (2013 – £7,222 million). The decrease primarily We expect that future operating cash flow will be sufficient to fund
reflected the impact of the strength of Sterling on profits and our operating and debt service costs, to satisfy normal levels of
lower profits, including the impact of divestments. capital expenditure, to meet obligations under existing licensing
agreements, to meet the expenditure arising from the major
Free cash flow
restructuring programmes (the precise timing of which is
Free cash flow is the amount of cash generated by the business
uncertain) as outlined in Note 10 to the financial statements,
after meeting our obligations for interest, tax and dividends paid to
‘Major restructuring costs’ and to meet other routine outflows
non-controlling interests, and after capital expenditure on property,
including tax and dividends, subject to the ‘Risk factors’ discussed
plant and equipment and intangible assets.
on pages 232 to 241. We may from time to time have additional
2014 2013 demands for finance, such as for acquisitions and share
repurchases. We have access to other sources of liquidity
Free cash flow (£m) 2,620 4,657
from short and long-term capital markets and banks and other
Free cash flow growth (%) (44)% >100%
financial institutions, in addition to the cash flow from operations,
for such needs.
Free cash flow was £2,620 million for the year. The decrease on 2013
primarily reflected the impact of the strength of Sterling and lower Working capital
profits, including the impact of divestments. We paid dividends to
2014 2013
shareholders of £3,843 million, and spent £238 million on
Working capital percentage of turnover (%) 22% 19%
repurchasing shares.
Working capital conversion cycle (days) 209 176
A reconciliation of net cash inflow from operating activities, which is
the closest equivalent IFRS measure, to free cash flow is shown Our working capital programme has continued to make progress
below. with further improvements in the collection of receivables and
more effective management of payables balances. During the
Reconciliation of free cash flow
year a number of initiatives were implemented across our supply
2014 2013 chains supporting the Pharmaceutical, Vaccines and Consumer
£m £m Healthcare businesses that have provided stronger end-to-end
Net cash inflow from operating activities 5,176 7,222 accountability in each case. These programmes are at an early
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (1,188) (1,188) stage but have already reduced volatility and improved
Purchase of intangible assets (563) (513) responsiveness allowing better inventory management.
Disposal of property, plant and equipment 39 46
The reported working capital conversion cycle days are distorted
Interest paid (707) (749) by divestments made in 2013 and the intangible asset impairments
Interest received 63 59 included in the denominator used in the conversion cycle
Dividends received from joint ventures and computation. The year-end 2014 and 2013 conversion cycles,
associated undertakings 5 18 adjusted for these factors, were around 211 days and around
Distributions to non-controlling interests (205) (238) 190 days, respectively. The increase of 21 days is predominantly
due to stock building behind new launches and the remediation
Free cash flow 2,620 4,657
of the Consumer Healthcare supply chain, compounded by a
reduction in the denominator arising from the translation effect
of stronger Sterling on overseas revenue and costs, which
contributed an increase of seven days.
68 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Maturity profile of gross debt
Maturity profile of gross debt
£m equivalent
3,000
2,500
2,000
1,500
1,000
500
0
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2022 2023 2024 2025 2027 2033 2034 2038 2039 2042 2043 2045
GBP bonds EUR bonds USD bonds Commercial Paper Other bank borrowings Leases
Treasury policies Our long-term credit rating with Moody’s Investors Service
We report in Sterling and pay dividends out of Sterling profits. (‘Moody’s’) is A2 (stable outlook). Standard and Poor’s rate us
The role of Corporate Treasury is to monitor and manage our as A+ (stable outlook). Our short-term credit ratings are A-1
external and internal funding requirements and financial risks and P-1 with Standard and Poor’s and Moody’s respectively.
in support of our strategic objectives. We operate on a global
Liquidity
basis, primarily through subsidiary companies, and we manage
As at 31 December 2014, our cash and liquid investments were
our capital to ensure that our subsidiaries are able to operate as
held as follows:
going concerns and to optimise returns to shareholders through
an appropriate balance of debt and equity. Treasury activities are 2014 2013
£m £m
governed by policies approved by the Board of Directors, most
Bank balances and deposits 3,529 4,641
recently on 9 July 2014. A Treasury Management Group (TMG)
meeting chaired by our Chief Financial Officer, takes place on a US Treasury and Treasury repo
monthly basis to review treasury activities. Its members receive only money market funds 811 893
management information relating to treasury activities. Corporate debt instruments – 1
Government securities 67 65
Capital management
Our financial strategy supports the Group’s strategic priorities 4,407 5,600
and it is regularly reviewed by the Board. We manage the capital
Cash and liquid investments of £2.8 billion, including amounts held
structure of the Group through an appropriate mix of debt and
by ViiV Healthcare, were held centrally at 31 December 2014.
equity.
Free cash flow conversion improved to 101% of earnings excluding We had net debt of £14.4 billion at 31 December 2014.
after-tax legal charges and legal settlements in 2014 from 84% The table below summarises cash and gross debt after the
in 2013. However free cash flow was lower in 2014 at £2.6 billion effects of hedging.
compared to £4.7 billion in 2013. This reflected the impact of
2014 2013
the strength of Sterling and lower profits, including the impact £m £m
of divestments. As a consequence of this as well as £0.7 billion Cash and liquid investments 4,407 5,600
paid to increase the shareholding in our Indian pharmaceutical Gross debt – fixed (17,674) (15,593)
subsidiary from 50.7% to 75% and the acquisition of the remaining – floating (1,109) (2,651)
30% of our Indonesian Consumer Healthcare business held by
– non-interest bearing (1) (1)
a third party, our net debt increased from £12.6 billion at
Net debt (14,377) (12,645)
31 December 2013 to £14.4 billion at 31 December 2014.
Our policy is to borrow centrally in order to meet anticipated
funding requirements. The cash flow forecast and funding
requirements are monitored by the TMG on a monthly basis.
Our strategy is to diversify liquidity sources using a range of
facilities and to maintain broad access to funding markets.
Each day, we sweep cash from a number of global subsidiaries
to central Treasury accounts for liquidity management purposes.
GSK Annual Report 2014 69Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Group financial review
continued
Treasury operations Counterparty risk management
The objective of treasury activity is to manage the post-tax net We set global counterparty limits for each of our banking and
cost or income of financial operations to the benefit of earnings. investment counterparties based on long-term credit ratings from
We use a variety of financial instruments to finance our operations Moody’s and Standard and Poor’s. Corporate Treasury’s usage of
and derivative financial instruments to manage market risks from these limits is monitored daily by a Corporate Compliance Officer
these operations. These derivatives, principally comprising forward (CCO) who operates independently of Corporate Treasury. Any
foreign currency contracts, foreign currency options and interest breach of these limits would be reported to the CFO immediately.
rate swaps, are used to swap borrowings and liquid assets into The CCO also monitors the credit rating of these counterparties
currencies required for Group purposes and to manage exposure and, when changes in ratings occur, notifies Corporate Treasury
to financial risks from changes in foreign exchange rates and so that changes can be made to investment levels or to authority
interest rates. limits as appropriate. In addition, relationship banks and their credit
ratings are reviewed regularly and a report is presented annually to
We do not hold or issue derivatives for speculative purposes.
the TMG for approval.
Our Treasury policies specifically prohibit such activity. All
transactions in financial instruments are undertaken to manage
the risks arising from underlying business activities, not for Strategic report
speculation.
The Strategic report was approved by a duly authorised
Interest rate risk management
Committee of the Board of Directors on 26 February 2015 and
Our objective is to minimise the effective net interest cost and
signed on its behalf by:
to balance the mix of debt at fixed and floating interest rates over
time. The policy on interest rate risk management limits the amount
of floating interest payments to a prescribed percentage of
operating profit.
Simon Dingemans
We used interest rate swaps to redenominate one of our fixed
Chief Financial Officer
rate bonds that matured in 2014 into floating interest rates. The
26 February 2015
duration of these swaps matched the duration of the principal
instrument. These interest rate derivative instruments were
accounted for as fair value hedges of the relevant liability.
Foreign exchange risk management
Foreign currency transaction exposures arising on internal and
external trade flows are not generally hedged. Our objective is
to minimise the exposure of overseas operating subsidiaries to
transaction risk by matching local currency income with local
currency costs where possible. Our internal trading transactions
are matched centrally and we manage inter-company payment
terms to reduce foreign currency risk. Foreign currency cash flows
can be hedged selectively under the management of Corporate
Treasury and the TMG. These include hedges of the foreign
exchange risk arising from acquisitions and disposals of assets.
Where possible, we manage the cash surpluses or borrowing
requirements of subsidiary companies centrally using forward
contracts to hedge future repayments back into the originating
currency.
In order to reduce foreign currency translation exposure, we seek
to denominate borrowings in the currencies of our principal assets
and cash flows. These are primarily denominated in US dollars,
Euros and Sterling. Certain borrowings can be swapped into other
currencies as required.
Borrowings denominated in, or swapped into, foreign currencies
that match investments in overseas Group assets may be treated
as a hedge against the relevant assets. Forward contracts in major
currencies are also used to reduce exposure to our investment in
overseas Group assets. The TMG reviews the ratio of borrowings
to assets for major currencies monthly.
70 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Governance &
remuneration
In this section
Our Board 72
Our Corporate Executive Team 76
Chairman’s letter 78
Corporate governance framework 79
Board report to shareholders
Oversight and stewardship in
2014 and future actions 80
Leadership and effectiveness 82
Committee reports
Audit & Risk 86
Nominations 92
Corporate Responsibility 94
Remuneration report
Chairman’s annual statement 96
Annual report on remuneration 97
2014 Remuneration policy report 119
GGSSKK AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22001144 7711Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Our Board
Diversity
Experience International experience Composition Tenure (Non-Executives)
19% 75% 19% 39%
Scientific Global Executive Up to 3 years
31% 100% 81% 15%
Finance USA Non-Executive 3-6 years
50% 94% 69% 23%
Industry Europe Male 7-9 years
63% 31% 23%
EMAP Female Over 9 years
Sir Christopher Gent 66 Skills and experience
Chairman Sir Christopher has many years of experience of leading global
businesses and a track record of delivering outstanding performance
Nationality
in highly competitive industries. He was appointed Managing Director
British
of Vodafone plc in 1985 and then became its Chief Executive Officer
Appointment date in 1997 until his retirement in 2003. Sir Christopher was also a
1 June 2004 and as Chairman Non-Executive Director of Ferrari SpA and a member of the British
on 1 January 2005 Airways International Business Advisory Board.
Committee membership External appointments
Corporate Responsibility Sir Christopher is a Senior Adviser at Bain & Co.
Committee Chairman,
Nominations, Remuneration
and Finance
Sir Philip Hampton 61 Skills and experience
Chairman Designate Prior to joining GSK, Sir Philip chaired major FTSE 100 companies
including J Sainsbury plc. He has also served as Group Finance
Nationality
Director at Lloyds TSB Group, BT Group plc, BG Group plc, British
British
Gas and British Steel plc. Sir Philip was previously appointed an
Appointment date Executive Director of Lazards and a Non-Executive Director at RMC
1 January 2015. Deputy Group Plc and Belgacom SA. Until 2009, he was Chairman of UK
Chairman from 1 April 2015 Financial Investments Limited, which manages the UK Government’s
and Non-Executive Chairman shareholdings in banks.
from 7 May 2015
External appointments
Committee membership Sir Philip is currently Chairman of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Nominations Committee plc. He is also the Senior Independent Director of Anglo American Plc,
Chairman, Finance Chairman of its Remuneration Committee and member of its Audit
Committee.
Sir Andrew Witty 50 Skills and experience
Chief Executive Officer Sir Andrew joined GSK in 1985. He has worked in the UK, South
Africa, the USA and Singapore in various senior roles. In 2003,
Nationality
he was appointed President of Europe and joined GSK’s Corporate
British
Executive Team. Sir Andrew served as the Lead Non-Executive Board
Appointment date member for the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills to
31 January 2008 and as December 2013. He was also President of the European Federation
Chief Executive Officer of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations until July 2013.
on 21 May 2008 External appointments
Committee membership Sir Andrew is a member of the Prime Minister’s Business Advisory
Finance Group. He is also appointed to the UK Business Ambassador Group
and School of Economics & Management Advisory Board (SEM),
Tsinghua University, Beijing, China. Sir Andrew is Chancellor of the
University of Nottingham.
Simon Dingemans 51 Skills and experience
Chief Financial Officer Prior to joining GSK, Simon has over 25 years of experience in
investment banking at SG Warburg and Goldman Sachs. During this
Nationality
time, he advised a broad range of large corporates across a number of
British
industry sectors, including pharmaceuticals and consumer healthcare.
Appointment date Simon advised GSK for over a decade before his appointment and
4 January 2011 and as Chief was closely involved in a number of GSK’s key strategic projects.
Financial Officer on 1 April 2011
External appointments
Committee membership Simon is Chairman of the 100 Group and a member of the Corporate
Finance Development Council for the National Theatre.
72 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Dr Moncef Slaoui 55 Skills and experience
Chairman, Global Vaccines Moncef joined GSK Vaccines in 1988 where he engineered the
development of a robust vaccines pipeline. He then led Worldwide
Nationality
Business Development for pharmaceutical products before his Moroccan, Belgian & American
appointment to lead R&D in 2006. He was given overall responsibility
Appointment date for GSK’s Oncology Business in 2010; for GSK Vaccines in 2011; and
17 May 2006 for all Global Franchises in 2012. Moncef has advised the US President’s
Council of Advisors on Science and Technology and he was a member of
Committee membership
the Board of the Agency for Science, Technology & Research (A*STAR)
Finance
until January 2011.
He has a PhD in Molecular Biology and Immunology from Université
Libre de Bruxelles and has published more than 100 scientific papers
and presentations. Prior to joining GSK, Moncef was Professor of
Immunology at the University of Mons, Belgium.
External appointments
Moncef is a member of the PhRMA and the Biotechnology Industry
Organization boards in the USA and a member of the Advisory
Committee to the Director of National Institutes of Health. He is also an
adviser to the Qatar Foundation, and a member of the Qatar Biomedical
Research Institute Scientific Advisory Committee. Moncef serves as a
Non-Executive Director for the International AIDS Vaccine Initiative (IAVI).
Sir Deryck Maughan 67 Skills and experience
Senior Independent Sir Deryck has a wealth of international corporate and investment
Non-Executive Director banking experience, having previously served as Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer of Citigroup International and of Salomon
Nationality
Brothers Inc. He served as Vice Chairman of the New York Stock
British
Exchange from 1996 to 2000. Sir Deryck was a former Senior Adviser
Appointment date to, and Partner of, Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co and previously served
1 June 2004 and as Senior as a Non-Executive Director of Thomson Reuters.
Independent Non-Executive
External appointments
Director on 1 May 2013
Sir Deryck is a Non-Executive Director of BlackRock Inc, Trustee of the
Committee membership British Museum and of New York University Langone Medical Center.
Audit & Risk, Nominations,
Remuneration and Finance
Professor Sir Roy Anderson 67 Skills and experience
Independent Non-Executive Professor Sir Roy is a world-renowned medical scientist with advanced
Director & Scientific Expert knowledge of infectious disease epidemiology and is currently
Professor of Infectious Disease in the Faculty of Medicine, Imperial
Nationality
College, London. He is a fellow of the Royal Society, the Academy of
British
Medical Sciences and the Royal Statistical Society. He is an Honorary
Appointment date Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries and a Foreign Associate Member of
1 October 2007 the Institute of Medicine at the US National Academy of Sciences and
the French Academy of Sciences. Professor Sir Roy brings scientific
Committee membership
expertise to the Board’s deliberations.
Nominations and Finance
External appointments
Professor Sir Roy is a member of the International Advisory Board of
Holdingham Group and he is a Trustee of the Natural History Museum,
London. He is also a member of the Vaccine International Advisory
Board (VACCIAB) of AJ Pharma Holding Sdn. Bhd in Malaysia.
Dr Stephanie Burns 60 Skills and experience
Independent Non-Executive Stephanie is a recognised global business leader, having served as
Director Chairman, President and CEO of Dow Corning Corporation until her
retirement at the end of 2011. She has a strong scientific background,
Nationality
with a PhD in organic chemistry with an organosilicon specialty, and is
American
an advocate for science education. Stephanie previously sat on the US
Appointment date President’s Export Council and was an Officer of the Society of Chemical
12 February 2007 Industry, American Section, as well as the past Honorary President of the
UK-based parent society. Stephanie was also an Officer and Chairman
Committee membership
of the American Chemistry Council.
Corporate Responsibility,
Remuneration and Finance External appointments
Stephanie was appointed a Non-Executive Director of Corning Inc.
in January 2012 and a Non-Executive Director of Kellogg Company,
in February 2014.
GSK Annual Report 2014 73Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Our Board
continued
Stacey Cartwright 51 Skills and experience
Independent Non-Executive Stacey is a Chartered Accountant and has significant experience of
Director global consumer businesses and of corporate finance. She served as
Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer of Burberry Group plc
Nationality
until July 2013. Prior to joining Burberry Group plc in 2004, Stacey held
British
the role of Chief Financial Officer at Egg plc between 1999 and 2003,
Appointment date and from 1988 to 1999 she worked in various finance-related positions
1 April 2011 at Granada Group plc.
Committee membership The Board has determined that Stacey has recent and relevant financial
Audit & Risk and Finance experience, and agreed that she has the appropriate qualifications and
background to be an audit committee financial expert.
External appointments
Stacey is Chief Executive Officer of Harvey Nichols Group of Companies.
Lynn Elsenhans 58 Skills and experience
Independent Non-Executive Lynn has a wealth of experience of running a global business and
Director significant knowledge of the global markets in which GSK operates.
She served as Chair, President and Chief Executive Officer of Sunoco
Nationality
Inc. from 2009 to 2012. Prior to joining Sunoco in 2008 as President and
American
Chief Executive Officer, Lynn worked for Royal Dutch Shell which she
Appointment date joined in 1980 and where she held a number of senior roles, including
1 July 2012 Executive Vice President, Global Manufacturing from 2005 to 2008.
Committee membership External appointments
Audit & Risk, Corporate Lynn is a Non-Executive Director of Baker Hughes Inc. and
Responsibility, Nominations Flowserve Corporation, a Director of the Texas Medical Center,
and Finance and a Non-Executive Director of The First Tee of Greater Houston.
She is also a Trustee of the United Way of Greater Houston and
a Trustee of Rice University.
Judy Lewent 66 Skills and experience
Independent Non-Executive Judy has extensive knowledge of the global pharmaceutical industry
Director and of corporate finance, having joined Merck & Co. in 1980 and then
served as Chief Financial Officer from 1990 to 2007 when she retired.
Nationality
Judy was previously a Non-Executive Director of Purdue Pharma Inc,
American
Napp Pharmaceutical Holdings Limited and certain Mundipharma
Appointment date International Limited companies until 31 December 2014. Judy
1 April 2011 previously served as a Non-Executive Director of Dell Inc. and
Quaker Oats Company.
Committee membership
Audit & Risk Committee The Board has determined that Judy has recent and relevant financial
Chairman, Nominations, experience, and agreed that she has the appropriate qualifications and
Remuneration and Finance background to be an audit committee financial expert.
External appointments
Judy is a Non-Executive Director of Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. and
Motorola Solutions Inc. She is also a Trustee of the Rockefeller Family Trust
and Chairperson of the Audit Committee of Rockefeller Financial Services,
a life member of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Corporation
and a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
Dr Daniel Podolsky 61 Skills and experience
Independent Non-Executive Daniel is a world-renowned researcher who has advanced knowledge
Director & Scientific Expert of underlying mechanisms of disease and new therapies for
gastrointestinal disorders. He was formerly Mallinckrodt Professor
Nationality
of Medicine and Chief of Gastroenterology at Massachusetts General
American
Hospital and Harvard Medical School, and previously served as the
Appointment date Chief Academic Officer of Partners Healthcare System. Daniel’s
1 July 2006 current responsibilities in leading a large academic medical centre
give him relevant insight into healthcare delivery. Daniel brings scientific
Committee membership
expertise to the Board and the Audit & Risk Committee’s deliberations.
Audit & Risk, Corporate
Responsibility and Finance External appointments
Daniel is President of the University of Texas Southwestern
Medical Center and holds the Philip O’Bryan Montgomery, Jr., M.D.
Distinguished Presidential Chair in Academic Administration, and the
Doris and Bryan Wildenthal Distinguished Chair in Medical Science.
He is a member of the Institute of Medicine of the US National Academy
of Sciences, member of the Board of the Southwestern Medical
Foundation and is a Director of Antibe Therapeutics, Inc.
He is also a member of the National Academies of Sciences Board
on Army Science and Technology.
74 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Urs Rohner 55 Skills and experience
Independent Non-Executive Urs has a broad range of business and legal experience having served
Director as Chairman on a number of Boards, most recently for Credit Suisse,
a world leading financial services company. Prior to joining Credit Nationality
Suisse in 2004, Urs served as Chairman of the Executive Board and
Swiss
CEO of ProSieben and ProSiebenSat.1 Media AG. This followed a
Appointment date number of years in private practice at major law firms in Switzerland
1 January 2015 and the USA, having been admitted to the bars of the canton of Zurich
in 1986 and the state of New York in 1990.
Committee membership
Remuneration and Finance External appointments
Urs is currently appointed Chairman of the Board of Credit Suisse
Group AG and of the Chairman’s and Governance Committee.
He is also appointed Chairman and member of the Board of Trustees
of Credit Suisse Research Institute and Credit Suisse Foundation.
Tom de Swaan 68 Skills and experience
Independent Non-Executive Tom has had a long and distinguished career in the European banking
Director industry, having been a member of the Managing Board and Chief
Financial Officer of ABN AMRO. Tom has held various executive
Nationality
positions at the Dutch Central Bank and was a Non-Executive Director
Dutch
of the Financial Services Authority (now the Financial Conduct Authority)
Appointment date from 2001 to 2007. He was previously a Non-Executive Director of
1 January 2006 KPMG’s Public Interest Committee and was also Vice Chairman of the
Supervisory Board and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Royal Ahold.
Committee membership
Remuneration Committee The Board has determined that Tom has recent and relevant financial
Chairman, Audit & Risk, experience, and agreed that he has the appropriate qualifications and
Nominations and Finance background to be an audit committee financial expert.
External appointments
Tom is Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Van Lanschot Bankiers
and Chairman of the Board of Directors of Zurich Insurance Group.
He is also a member of the Supervisory Board of Royal DSM, and
a Senior Adviser to Ondra Partners.
Jing Ulrich 47 Skills and experience
Independent Non-Executive Jing is Managing Director and Vice Chairman of Asia Pacific at JPMorgan
Director Chase. She advises the firm’s most senior global clients across all asset
classes, while building relationships with executives at Asia’s leading
Nationality
enterprises. Jing is one of the most prominent advisers to large global
American
asset management companies, sovereign wealth funds, and multinational
Appointment date corporations. She works with all lines of business at JPMorgan Chase
1 July 2012 to foster greater cross-border collaboration and strengthen senior client
relationships in Asia Pacific and the rest of the world.
Committee membership
Audit & Risk and Finance Jing was Managing Director and Chair of Global Markets, China at
JPMorgan between 2005 and 2013. From 2003 to 2005, Jing worked
for Deutsche Bank as Managing Director, Head of Greater China
Equities. She previously held financial positions, specialising in the
Asia Pacific region, with CLSA Asia Pacific Markets and the Emerging
Markets Investors Corporation. She was educated at Harvard and
Stanford Universities.
External appointments
Jing is currently an Independent Director of Ermenegildo Zegna SpA
and a member of Bocconi University’s International Advisory Council.
Hans Wijers 64 Skills and experience
Independent Non-Executive Hans has a broad range of business, economic and political
Director experience, having served as Chief Executive Officer and Chairman
at Akzo Nobel NV from 2002 to 2012. Hans had a long and
Nationality
distinguished career in academia, public service and strategy
Dutch
consulting. He served as Senior Partner of the Boston Consulting
Appointment date Group from 1998 to 2002.
1 April 2013
External appointments
Committee membership Hans is Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Heineken NV and also
Corporate Responsibility, Deputy Chairman and Non-Executive Director of Royal Dutch Shell.
Remuneration and Finance He is Chairman of the Supervisory Board of AFC Ajax and member
of the Supervisory Board of HAL Holding N.V.
GSK Annual Report 2014 75Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Our Corporate Executive Team
Sir Andrew Witty Deirdre Connelly Roger Connor Simon Dingemans
Chief Executive Officer President, North America President, Global Manufacturing Chief Financial Officer
Pharmaceuticals & Supply
See ‘Our Board’ on page 72. See ‘Our Board’ on page 72.
Deirdre joined GSK and the CET Roger joined CET in 2012 and
as President, North America was appointed as President, Global
Pharmaceuticals in February 2009 Manufacturing & Supply (GMS)
after working at Eli Lilly and Company in 2013, after working for a year
for 24 years. She held a variety of as President Designate, GMS.
positions there including President of
Roger joined GSK in 1998 from
US Operations, Senior Vice President
AstraZeneca and has worked in
of Global Commercialisations for
finance and manufacturing strategy
Woman’s Health and Senior Vice
roles, including at GSK sites in
President of Human Resources.
Cork in Ireland and Ware in the UK.
Deirdre holds a Bachelor’s degree Prior to his position in GMS, Roger
in Marketing and Economics from was Vice President, Office of the
Lycoming College in Pennsylvania CEO and Corporate Strategy, from
and graduated from Harvard February 2010.
University’s Advanced Management
He holds a degree in Mechanical
Program in 1999.
and Manufacturing Engineering from
She serves as a Director on the Queen’s University Belfast and a
PhRMA Board, the Board of Masters in Manufacturing Leadership
Macy’s Inc. and the Harvard from Cambridge University. He is
University Public Health Policy also a Chartered Accountant.
Council. Deirdre is a native of
San Juan, Puerto Rico.
Deirdre announced her retirement
from GSK and stepped down from
CET in February 2015.
Nick Hirons Abbas Hussain Bill Louv David Redfern
Senior Vice President, Global President, Global Pharmaceuticals Senior Vice President, Core Chief Strategy Officer
Ethics and Compliance Business Services
Abbas joined CET in 2008 and David joined CET as Chief Strategy
Nick was appointed to CET in was appointed President, Global Bill joined CET in 2007 and was Officer in May 2008 and is
September 2014 as Senior Vice Pharmaceuticals in October 2014, appointed in April 2010 to create and responsible for corporate
President, Global Ethics and having joined the company as lead Core Business Services (CBS), development and strategic planning.
Compliance and is responsible for President, Emerging Markets & which integrates the shared services In addition to his current role, he
compliance, risk management and Asia Pacific in June 2008. He joined of the global support functions. was made Chairman of the Board
corporate security and investigations. the ViiV Healthcare Ltd. Board in of ViiV Healthcare Ltd. in April 2011.
October 2009 and the Aspen Board He joined the company in 1994
Nick joined GSK in 1994 as an in December 2009. as Vice President of Medical Data Previously, he was Senior Vice
International Auditor in the UK. He Sciences, and has held increasingly President, Northern Europe with
was later Head of Audit & Assurance, Previously, he spent 20 years at senior roles in R&D and IT. responsibility for managing GSK’s
where he combined five separate Eli Lilly where he held positions pharmaceutical businesses in that
audit functions into an independent including President, Europe and Prior to joining GSK, Bill was with region and, prior to that, was Senior
team operating with a common before that Vice President, Europe. Marion Merrell Dow and earlier Vice President for Central and
risk-based methodology. In June He also held positions with Eli Lilly in was an associate professor at the Eastern Europe. David joined GSK
2013, Nick took up a role in China, Australia, the USA, India, Turkey and University of Alabama Medical Center. in 1994 and was Finance Director
where he established a new Germany in several roles including Bill has a Bachelor of Science of the European business from 1999
governance model for our China business development, sales and degree in Biology from the College to 2002.
business that created a consistent marketing, and management. of William and Mary, and Master David has a Bachelor of Science
approach to compliance. He has a degree in Medicinal of Science and Doctor of Philosophy degree from Bristol University in the
Nick is a fellow of the Chartered Chemistry & Pharmacology from degrees in Statistics from the UK and is a Chartered Accountant.
I An cs cti otu ut ne t ao nf tM s.anagement L bo ou rng h inb Mor ao du rg ah s ,U Inn div ie ar .sity and was U t Fh en e bi v B re uor as a ri r yt dy 2 o o 0f f 1 F R 5l io .vr eid r a L. o H gie c ,j o Inin ce . d in O apn p 1 o inF te eb dr u aa sr y n o2 n0 -1 e5 xe D ca uv tii vd e w da irs e ctor
of Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Ltd,
the South Africa based global
generics company in which GSK
holds a minority equity stake.
76 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Dr Moncef Slaoui Claire Thomas Phil Thomson
Chairman, Global Vaccines Senior Vice President, Senior Vice President,
Human Resources Communications and
See ‘Our Board’ on page 73.
Government Affairs
Claire was appointed to CET as
Senior Vice President, Human Phil joined CET in 2011 and was
Resources in May 2008. appointed Senior Vice President,
Claire joined the company in Communications and Government Affairs
1996 as Senior Manager, Human in 2014. He has responsibility for Media
Resources, Sales and Marketing Relations, Investor Relations, Corporate
Group, UK Pharmaceuticals before Responsibility, Internal Communications,
becoming Director of Human Product Communications and
Resources for UK Pharmaceuticals Government Affairs.
in 1997. She was appointed Senior He joined Glaxo Wellcome as a trainee in
Vice President, Human Resources, 1996, moving from pharmaceutical brand
Pharmaceuticals Europe in 2001, marketing to product communications.
and Senior Vice President Human In 1999, he became Director of Media
Resources International in 2006. Relations for Glaxo Wellcome plc and
Prior to joining the company she was then Director, Investor Relations
worked for Ford Motor Company, from 2001 to 2004, when he returned
holding various positions in Human to Corporate Media Relations as Vice
Resources. President. Phil has worked on numerous
corporate, product and reputational
Claire has a Bachelor of Science matters at GSK.
degree in Economics, Management
and Industrial Relations from the Phil earned his degree in English and
University of Wales. History from Durham University.
Dan Troy Patrick Vallance Emma Walmsley
Senior Vice President President, Pharmaceuticals R&D President, Consumer Healthcare
& General Counsel
Patrick joined CET in 2010 and was Emma joined GSK in May 2010, and
Dan joined GSK and the CET as appointed President, Pharmaceuticals was appointed to CET as President
Senior Vice President & General R&D, in January 2012. Prior to this he of the Consumer Healthcare
Counsel in September 2008. was Senior Vice President, Medicines business in October 2011. Under
Discovery and Development. Emma’s leadership the business
He was previously a Partner at the has a new strategy to become the
Washington law firm Sidley Austin Patrick joined the company in 2006 leading Fast Moving Consumer
LLP, where he represented mainly as Head of Drug Discovery. He has Healthcare company.
pharmaceutical companies and trade focused the organisation on science
associations on matters related to the that has the best chance of leading On 22 April 2014, GSK announced
US Food and Drug Administration to new medicines, and created small, an inter-conditional deal with Novartis,
(FDA) and government regulations. multidisciplinary teams called which includes a proposal to create
Dan was formerly Chief Counsel for Discovery Performance Units. a joint venture for both companies’
the FDA, where he served as a He is transforming GSK’s approach consumer healthcare businesses.
primary liaison to the White House to late stage clinical trial design If this provisional deal is completed,
and the US Department of Health and execution. Emma would be CEO of the joint
and Human Services. Before joining GSK Patrick was venture and a member of its Board.
Dan is a graduate from Cornell a clinical academic at University Prior to joining GSK, Emma worked
University’s School of Industrial College London. He is a director with L’Oreal for 17 years. She has
and Labor Relations, and earned of Genome Research Limited. a degree in Classics and Modern
his law degree from Columbia Languages from Oxford University.
University School of Law. Dan was
named a ‘Legend in the Law’ at the
Burton Awards.
GSK Annual Report 2014 77Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Corporate governance
Letter to shareholders
In addition, Judy Lewent, who chairs our Audit & Risk Committee,
provided an overview of the work of the Committee and Sir Deryck
Maughan, our Senior Independent Director, provided his insights
into the Board’s culture and dynamics. Listening to the views of our
shareholders and receiving their feedback at these sessions that
are held in the run up to the corporate reporting season, helps us to
shape key areas of our Governance & Remuneration disclosures.
UK Corporate Governance Code
We have reviewed our responsibilities and reporting requirements
against the new standards included in the Financial Reporting
Council’s updated UK Corporate Governance Code published in
September 2014, which are effective for our 2015 financial year.
The principal changes relate to going concern, “viability statements”
and other internal control and risk management areas and to bring
the Code up-to-date with new remuneration reporting practices.
Our review indicated that we are in a strong position to comply fully
Dear Shareholder
with these new standards and the Board will report formally in next
As Chairman of the Board, I am committed to GSK seeking to
year’s Annual Report on their implementation.
operate to the highest standards of corporate governance. We
believe that it is our governance structure that underpins our ability Appointment of Chairman Designate
to deliver our strategy to grow a diversified business, deliver more I welcome the appointment of Sir Philip Hampton as my designated
products of value and simplify our operating model, and in doing successor. He joined the Board on 1 January 2015 and will become
so create additional long-term value for our shareholders. Deputy Chairman from 1 April 2015. Sir Philip is due to succeed
me on 7 May 2015, from the end of our AGM. He has been
No less important for myself and the Board is the need to firmly
undergoing a thorough and wide-ranging induction process,
embed values-based conduct and behaviour of our employees into
which has been tailored to his role and background, and which
our governance structure. We want to ensure that everything that
is detailed on page 81. This has provided him with a firm basis to
we as a Board and our employees do is guided by our commitment
make a valuable early contribution to our Board deliberations and
to our values and to being in compliance with the local laws and
to be fully conversant with our businesses and the environment in
regulations within which we operate. The foundations of these
which we operate before he becomes Chairman. In the meantime,
commitments are laid out in our Code of Conduct, which we
I am working very closely with Sir Philip, with the support of Sir
strengthened and re-issued in January 2014, and which is available
Deryck Maughan, our Senior Independent Director, during this
in the governance area of our website. It draws together a number
handover period to ensure a smooth and seamless transition. of key company policy principles and provides a working guide for
the way in which we apply our values across our global operations. China investigations and ABAC
The Chinese authorities reached a conclusion in the investigations
I highlight below key corporate governance priorities that the
of our Chinese business in September 2014, but this has been
Board has addressed during 2014.
a deeply disappointing matter for GSK. We cooperated fully with
Board evaluation the authorities and took steps to comprehensively rectify the issues
An independent external evaluation was undertaken of the Board identified at our operations in China. The Audit & Risk Committee,
and our Committees and I am pleased to report that the results of which each Board member attends, was fully appraised of
Dr Tracy Long’s review were positive, confirming that the Board developments and continues to closely monitor the Group’s ABAC
was operating well and was effective in dealing with the various activities. Further details are set out by Judy Lewent on page 86.
challenges it faces. This is a time of significant transition for the
Audit tendering
company and the Board and two key priorities for the Board are to:
We have regularly reviewed developments at a UK and EU level
• close our proposed three-part transaction with Novartis, which to reform the audit market, particularly in relation to regulations
is on track to complete in the week commencing 2 March 2015, governing audit contract tendering and audit firm rotation. We
and integrate Novartis’ Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare have also taken into consideration the views of our shareholders.
businesses into our existing governance arrangements; and As part of its overall assessment of the auditors’ performance
our Audit & Risk Committee reviewed the implications of tendering
• manage an orderly refreshment of the Board as a result of a
the external audit contract. Details of its conclusions are set out
number of planned retirements from the Board over the next
on page 90. The Committee does not intend to initiate a tender
two to three years and address several identified additional
exercise during 2015 due to the significant level of change the
skills and experience gaps.
company is experiencing. It expects, however, to initiate
Sir Philip Hampton, our Chairman Designate, has succeeded me preparations for a tender process during the second half of 2016,
as Nominations Committee Chairman so that he can immediately in order that a new auditor could take on the audit from 2018.
focus on tailoring the refreshment of the Board to the requirements
The following pages outline our approach to governance and how
of the future reshaped Group, which he will lead through the next
these practices underpin the delivery of our strategy. The structure
chapter in its development, and the evolving external landscape.
of the Corporate Governance report has been maintained, so that
I continue to serve on the Committee to provide continuity and
those statutory and risk disclosures that previously appeared in the
support to Sir Philip. Further details of Dr Long’s key findings
report can continue to be referred to in the Shareholder Information
and the action points that the Board has agreed to address are
section on pages 242 to 248 and the Risk Management section on
set out on page 81.
pages 16 to 17 respectively.
Annual investor meetings
I commend this report to all of our shareholders.
At these sessions, which were held in November, I was pleased
to discuss our corporate governance practices with our largest
shareholders, while Tom de Swaan, our Remuneration Committee
Sir Christopher Gent
Chairman, covered our executive remuneration arrangements.
Chairman
26 February 2015
78 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Corporate governance framework
The Board has a coherent corporate governance framework with clearly defined responsibilities and accountabilities designed to
safeguard and enhance long-term shareholder value and provide a robust platform to realise the Group’s strategy to Grow, Deliver and
Simplify. Our internal control and risk management arrangements, which are described on pages 84 to 85, and 16 to 17, are an integral
part of GSK’s governance framework.
Board Committees
In order for the Board to operate effectively and to give full consideration to key matters, Board Committees have been established by
the Board. A summary of the role of each Board Committee is set out in the table below. The full terms of reference of each Committee
are available on our website and reports on the membership of, and work undertaken by, the Audit & Risk, Remuneration, Nominations
and Corporate Responsibility Committees during 2014 are given on pages 86 to 95 and 108 to 109.
Board
1 3 12 Chief Executive
Officer
Chairman Executive Independent
Directors Non-Executive
Directors
Corporate
Executive
Team
Corporate
Corporate Administration
Audit & Risk Remuneration Nominations Responsibility Finance & Transactions
Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee
Reviews and Reviews and Reviews and Reviews: Reviews and Reviews and
responsible for: recommends to recommends to External issues that approves: approves:
Financial and internal the Board: the Board: have the potential for Annual Report Matters in
reporting processes, The overall executive The structure, size serious impact upon and Form 20-F, connection with
integrity of the remuneration policy and composition of GSK’s business convening of the the administration
financial statements, The appropriate fees the Board and the Reputation AGM and the of the Group’s
system of internal for the Chairman appointment of management quarterly results business and
controls, Directors, Committee announcements certain corporate
Annual governance
identification and Determines: members and CET oversight of GSK’s Certain major transactions
management Terms of service members responsible business licensing and capital
of risks and external and remuneration of Succession to the commitments transactions and
and internal audit Executive Directors Board and the CET changes to the
processes and other members Group’s Investment
Initiating audit of the CET Instrument and
tenders, the Counterparty Limits
selection and Reviews and
appointment of approves:
external auditors, The Remuneration
their remuneration report
and oversight of
their work
GSK Annual Report 2014 79Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Corporate governance
continued
Board report to shareholders – Oversight and stewardship in 2014 and future actions
The Board
The Board is pleased to report that in 2014 it was in full compliance with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
See page 87 with respect to our position on audit tendering.
The Board is responsible for the long-term success of the company, corporate governance, strategy, risk management and financial
performance. It is accountable to shareholders for ensuring that the Group is appropriately managed and governed, and delivers GSK’s
strategy to Grow, Deliver and Simplify.
2014 Board programme
The Board met six times in 2014 and each Board member attended all scheduled Board meetings.
The Board agendas were shaped to create more time for strategic discussion and debate by closely managing time allocated to routine items
to ensure focused consideration of our strategic priorities. During 2014, the agendas for Board meetings included the following business:
Month Strategy Board and risk oversight* Governance
January • Approval of 2014-16 plan • Review of 2013 financial results • Review of internal 2013
and outlook for 2014 Board evaluation report
• Re-appointment of auditors • Secretary’s Report (including
regulatory and governance updates)
March • Review of GMS performance • Secretary’s Report (including
and strategy update regulatory and governance updates)
• ‘Deep Dive’ – pipeline launches
May • ‘Deep Dive’ – India • Review of financial results • Preparation for AGM
• Patent protection for the year to date • Secretary’s Report (including
regulatory and governance updates)
July • Credit profile and distribution policy • Annual EMAP and Vaccines • Secretary’s Report (including
• Review of Funding strategy and business reviews regulatory and governance updates)
Treasury policy • R&D annual update
• Review of Pensions strategy • North American
• Review of Insurance strategy Pharmaceuticals annual update
October • Review of output from the annual • Three-part Novartis transaction
Board & CET strategy meeting shareholder approval process
• Review of Talent and Leadership • Secretary’s Report (including regulatory
Development strategy and governance updates)
December • Review of 2015-17 plan • Europe annual update • Review of external 2014 Board evaluation
• Secretary’s Report (including regulatory
and governance updates)
* During the year, all Board members were invited to attend the Audit & Risk Committee meetings where risk matters were routinely discussed.
2014 Board performance
During 2013, the Board identified certain actions to assist in adding further value to its deliberations. The performance of the Board
in 2014 against these actions is set out below:
Actions Progress/Achievement
(i) Strategy The proposed transformational three-part Novartis transaction and
The Board would look to take a longer term view (ten years) exploring an IPO of a minority interest in ViiV Healthcare to enhance future
of the key strategic issues facing the company. strategic flexibility in the reshaped Group demonstrate the Board’s longer
term strategic positioning of GSK.
(ii) Board meetings Consideration of the regular annual business unit updates by the
Time spent on routine matters would be further managed Board was adjusted to focus principally on strategic issues, while
to enable strategic/business discussions to take priority, while the assurance and risk management aspects of these updates were
ensuring the critical areas of oversight were maintained. considered at the Audit & Risk Committee meetings which were
attended by the full Board.
(iii) Annual Board/CET meetings The format of these sessions was refined and simplified. Presentations
The structure and format of these sessions would be reviewed were shortened and are now made by the CET member responsible
to ensure that they are appropriately geared to realising maximum for the proposed shape and direction of the strategic issue under
value in terms of strategic insights and direction setting. consideration. This increased the time to challenge and develop
strategy in greater depth and enhanced personal accountability for
proposed direction setting.
(iv) China review The Board remains committed to reviewing and implementing as
All appropriate actions would be reviewed by the Board and appropriate the recommended actions from Ropes and Gray’s
implemented as necessary on the conclusion of the external independent review. The actions already undertaken in China are
investigation and the Ropes and Gray independent review. set out on page 86.
These actions are set out in full on page 84 of GSK’s 2013 Annual Report, which discusses the internally facilitated evaluation of the
Board’s activities by the Senior Independent Director.
80 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Board report to shareholders – Oversight and stewardship in 2014 and future actions continued
2014 & 2015 AGMs – Key highlights at a glance
2014 AGM – held on 7 May 2014 at QEII Conference Centre, 2015 AGM – to be held on 7 May 2015 at QEII Conference Centre,
London London
• Full Director attendance • Sir Christopher Gent, Tom de Swaan and Jing Ulrich will stand
• 3.2 to 3.59 billion votes cast for each resolution (74% of issued down from the Board after ten, nine and three years of service
share capital) respectively
• Sir Robert Wilson stood down after ten years of service • Sir Philip Hampton and Urs Rohner will stand for election to the Board
• All other Directors retired and were re-elected to the Board, receiving • All other Directors will stand for re-election to the Board
at least 91.5% of the votes cast in favour • The Board believes that each Director is effective and demonstrates
• H ighest votes in favour: 99.9% to re-elect a number of Directors commitment to his or her role
• L owest votes in favour: 89.4% to reduce the required notice for • Each Director has been formally evaluated by the Chairman before
a general meeting standing for re-election
Chairman designate induction programme – Sir Philip Hampton
Sir Philip’s induction programme has been designed and arranged by the Chairman in consultation with the Company Secretary and
the CEO. It is based on the principles used in the company’s new Non-Executive Director induction programme, but has been further
customised to take into account Sir Philip’s designated leadership role at GSK. It seeks to build a clear and comprehensive view of the
industry and GSK’s strategy and positioning. The induction programme is being rolled out in phases which are set out below.
Area of understanding Induction content
The pharmaceutical industry Briefing on the industry from an external consultant and investors’ perspectives.
Our businesses Teach-in sessions with the Heads of Global Pharmaceuticals, Consumer Healthcare and Vaccines.
Our operating model Teach-in sessions with the Heads of R&D and GMS.
Our Corporate operations One-to-one meetings with the:
• CFO and Heads of HR, Remuneration, Corporate Strategy, Communications and Government Affairs,
Legal, Global Ethics and Compliance and Core Business Services, and
• senior executives responsible for Tax, Treasury, Pensions, IR, Media, Government Affairs,
Audit & Assurance and Security.
Shareholders and other external A programme of meetings is arranged.
stakeholders and advisers
His induction is underpinned by a thorough grounding in our corporate governance arrangements. This includes meetings with each
Board Director, reviewing current and past Board evaluations and attending all meetings of Committees of which he is not a member,
so that he can assess and understand our corporate governance framework, Boardroom culture and dynamics. In addition, his induction
activities are being supplemented by an extensive programme of visits to our principal R&D, GMS and Vaccines sites and meeting each
of our external advisers.
Board performance action points for 2015
The main findings and agreed action points arising from the 2014 Board evaluation review, externally facilitated by Dr Tracy Long
of Boardroom Review Limited, against which progress will be disclosed in GSK’s 2015 Annual Report, are set out below:
Key findings Agreed action points
The composition of the Board is due to change The Chairman Designate, together with the Nominations Committee, will seek to enhance the
over the next two to three years which will governance processes relating to Board composition, tenure and size.
require a carefully planned and thoughtfully
executed refreshment programme. They will review and seek to develop objective specifications and plans for all the Board’s roles
in alignment with our strategy, the external landscape, and the company’s evolving circumstances.
The Directors have identified gaps in the Board’s Closing these knowledge and experience gaps will be considered as part of the process
current composition relating to US pricing and of recruitment of new Non-Executive Directors combined with the refreshment of designated
healthcare, emerging markets and consumer specialist roles on the Board, such as medical and scientific expertise and the Senior Independent
healthcare knowledge. Director (SID).
Given the speed and complexity of the external The critical skill sets of potential candidates, such as international markets and cultural experience,
landscape changes, and potential for surprises, crisis and stakeholder management, will be considered and the composition choices of peer group
highly experienced Non-Executive Directors are Boards will be benchmarked.
a crucial component of the Board’s composition.
The replacement of the current SID who is due The Chairman Designate is leading the search involving internal and external candidates for this role.
to retire at the 2016 AGM is a priority issue.
A SID specification is being developed that balances the replacement of existing knowledge with
the ability to work well with the Chairman Designate, conduct robust Board evaluations, interact
well with shareholders and be able to commit the necessary time to the role.
Consideration should be given to reducing This aspiration will be considered against a refreshed Board competence/skills matrix that is being
the size of the Board, if it is judged to have used as part of the Board refreshment programme, and is linked to the company’s strategy.
a strong enough composition and dynamic.
Consideration should be given to enhancing the The Chairman Designate will lead this process and consider best practice techniques, such as
Non-Executive Director evaluation process. a combination of annual individual and peer evaluations.
GSK Annual Report 2014 81Corporate governance
continued
Senior Independent Director
Leadership and effectiveness
Sir Deryck Maughan has been our Senior Independent Director
(SID) since 1 May 2013. Sir Deryck’s role is to act as a sounding
The Board
board for the Chairman and a trusted intermediary for the other
The Board met six times in 2014, with each member attending as
Directors. He is also available as an additional point of contact for
follows:
shareholders. His responsibilities include the evaluation of the
Number of Number of
performance of the Chairman and, at the request of the Chairman,
meetings held whilst a meetings
Board member attended evaluating the Board and its Committees (in collaboration with the
Sir Christopher Gent 6 6/6 Committee Chairmen) in years when the evaluation is conducted
internally. The SID also works on the process for the selection of
Sir Andrew Witty 6 6/6
a new Chairman as appropriate, and he chairs the Nominations
Simon Dingemans 6 6/6
Committee when agreeing the recommendation to the Board for
Dr Moncef Slaoui 6 6/6
the Chairman’s successor. Further details of the SID’s role in the
Professor Sir Roy Anderson 6 6/6
process undertaken to select Sir Philip to replace Sir Christopher
Dr Stephanie Burns 6 6/6
as Chairman are available on page 92.
Stacey Cartwright 6 6/6
Sir Deryck maintains an understanding of the issues and concerns
Lynn Elsenhans 6 6/6
of our major shareholders through meetings with them and reports
Judy Lewent 6 6/6
from our Investor Relations team and briefings from the Company
Sir Deryck Maughan 6 6/6
Secretary on corporate governance issues.
Dr Daniel Podolsky 6 6/6
Tom de Swaan 6 6/6 CEO
Sir Andrew is responsible for the management of the business, Jing Ulrich 6 6/6
developing the Group’s strategic direction for consideration and
Hans Wijers 6 6/6
approval by the Board and implementing the agreed strategy. He is
Sir Robert Wilson* 3 3/3
assisted by other members of the Corporate Executive Team (CET),
In addition to the scheduled meetings, the Board also met on a which meets at least 11 times a year and more often if required.
quorate basis on 13 occasions to consider corporate transactions,
Short biographies of the members of the CET are given under
including the three-part Novartis transaction, and China-related
‘Our Corporate Executive Team’ on pages 76 and 77.
developments and to approve the appointments of Sir Philip
Hampton and Urs Rohner to the Board. Company Secretary
The Company Secretary, Victoria Whyte, is a solicitor and a
Sir Philip Hampton and Urs Rohner were both appointed as
Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
Non-Executive Directors with effect from 1 January 2015.
Victoria was formerly Deputy Secretary and Secretary to the
* Sir Robert Wilson retired from the Board on 7 May 2014. Remuneration Committee. She has acted as Secretary to the
Board and all the Board’s Committees since her appointment
The Chairman as Company Secretary on 1 January 2011.
The role of the Chairman is to lead and manage the business of
the Board and to provide direction and focus, while ensuring that Victoria supports the Chairman in designing the induction for new
there is a clear structure for the effective operation of the Board Directors, in the delivery of our corporate governance agenda, in
and its Committees. He sets the agenda for Board discussions particular in the planning of agendas for the annual cycle of Board
to promote effective and constructive debate and to support a and Committee meetings, and in ensuring that information is made
sound decision-making process, ensuring that the Board receives available to Board members on a timely basis. Victoria advises the
accurate, timely and clear information, in particular about the Directors on Board procedures and corporate governance matters,
company’s performance. and arranges for the Non-Executive Directors to meet with investors
to discuss aspects of our corporate governance arrangements on
The Chairman works closely with the Chief Executive Officer, request. She also arranges for them to attend internal management
Sir Andrew Witty, to ensure that the strategies and actions meetings and to make visits to our business operations to enhance
agreed by the Board are effectively implemented. He also provides their knowledge and understanding of the business.
support and advice to Sir Andrew, while respecting his executive
responsibility for managing the Group. The division of responsibilities During 2014, the Company Secretary responded to various
between the Chairman and the CEO has been agreed by the Board consultations on the evolving global governance and corporate
and is set out in the governance section of our website. reporting agenda on behalf of the Group and engaged with
shareholders to ensure they fully understood GSK’s governance
The Chairman is responsible to shareholders for the performance and remuneration arrangements.
of the Group and leads discussions and the development of
Independence
relations with them.
The Board considers all of its Non-Executive Directors to be
Sir Philip Hampton, who joined the Board on 1 January 2015, independent in character and judgement and free from any
will become Deputy Chairman on 1 April 2015, and will succeed business or other relationship which could materially interfere with
Sir Christopher Gent as Chairman with effect from the end of our the exercise of their judgement. Both Sir Christopher Gent and Sir
AGM on 7 May 2015. Philip Hampton satisfied the independence test on their respective
Non-Executive Directors appointments to the Board.
The Non-Executive Directors provide a strong, independent The independence of those Non-Executive Directors who have served
element on the Board. They are well placed to constructively on the Board for over six years was subjected to a rigorous review.
challenge and support management and to shape proposals
on strategy and succession planning. Between them, they bring In particular, the Board considered that Sir Deryck Maughan, who has
independent judgement and a breadth of skills and experience served on the Board for over nine years, continued to demonstrate the
gained at the most senior levels of international business characteristics of independence, such as challenging management
operations and academia. and taking part in rigorous debate, whilst possessing outstanding
knowledge of the company’s business affairs.
82 GSK Annual Report 2014
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
informationStrategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Board composition and diversity Time allocation
We seek to build an effective and complementary Board, whose Each Non-Executive Director has a letter of appointment which
capability is appropriate for the scale, complexity and strategic sets out the terms and conditions of his or her directorship.
positioning of our business. The process for Board appointments
The Chairman and our Non-Executive Directors are expected is led by the Nominations Committee and is described on pages
to devote such time as is necessary for the proper performance
92 to 93.
of their duties. No precise timings are given as this will vary from
We are mindful of the need to balance the composition of the Board year to year depending on the company’s activities. Directors
and its Committees and to refresh them progressively over time so are expected to attend all Board meetings, and any additional
that we can draw upon the experience of longer serving Directors, meetings as required.
while tapping into the new external perspectives and insights which
They are also expected to attend meetings of the Committees
more recent appointees bring to the Board’s deliberations.
of which they are members, the Audit & Risk Committee meetings
Non-Executive Directors are drawn from a wide range of industries (which are open to all Directors in furtherance of their risk and
and backgrounds, including pharmaceutical and healthcare, medical compliance responsibilities) and strategy sessions, and to make
research and academia, and retail, insurance and financial services, visits to our operational sites.
and have appropriate experience of complex organisations with global
2014 External evaluation of the Board
reach. Some have considerable experience of the pharmaceutical
The Board carries out an evaluation of its performance and
industry and the more recent appointees bring a new approach to the
that of its Committees every year and the evaluation is facilitated
Group, and to Board discussions.
externally every third year. The 2014 evaluation was carried out
The Board’s diversity policy is set out on page 93 and for details by an independent external facilitator, Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom
of the gender diversity of GSK’s global workforce, see page 45 Review Limited, who has no other connection with the company.
under Responsible business.
The in-depth process involved Dr Long:
Board induction, business awareness and training
• conducting individual interviews with each of the current
The Company Secretary assists the Chairman in designing
Directors (with the exception of Sir Philip Hampton and Urs
and facilitating a tailored induction programme for new Directors
Rohner who joined the Board on 1 January 2015), the Company
and their ongoing training. The Chairman Designate induction
Secretary and other key senior executives who regularly attend
programme that was devised for Sir Philip Hampton and
Board and Committee meetings;
commenced when he joined the Board is presented on page 81.
• reviewing past papers and minutes;
The induction programme for Non-Executive Directors typically
includes meetings with members of the CET and other senior • attending the Board and Committee meetings in September
executives to explain the company’s business, the commercial and October, which included the annual Board and CET
and regulatory environment in which we operate and an investor’s strategy session; and
perspective, as well as guidance on the duties and obligations of
• compiling the output from the external evaluation into a report
a Director of a listed company. Visits to our business operations
that contained her findings and recommendations.
are also a feature of the induction programme.
She also held:
To ensure that our Non-Executive Directors develop and maintain
a greater insight and understanding of the business, they are • individual feedback sessions with each Director;
invited to attend internal management meetings, including
• a session led by the SID with the Non-Executive Directors
meetings of the CET, the Research & Development Executive,
and the CEO without the Chairman present;
the Product Executive, the Scientific Review Board, the Portfolio
Investment Board, the Commercial Accountability Board and the • a session with the Chairman only; and
Risk Oversight and Compliance Council. They also meet
• finally, a collective feedback session with the entire Board,
employees informally during visits to the Group’s operations
during which her areas of principal focus and recommended
and at receptions held around Board meetings.
action points were discussed in detail before they were formally
The Chairman also meets with each Director annually on a considered and agreed by the Board at its December meeting.
one-to-one basis to discuss his or her ongoing training and
Dr Long’s report focused principally on the culture and
development requirements.
environment of the Boardroom, together with the composition
The Board is kept up-to-date on legal, regulatory and governance and tenure of the Board and succession planning arrangements.
matters through regular papers from the Company Secretary and
The overall view of the Board’s performance was positive and
presentations by internal and external advisers.
confirmed that the Board was effective at dealing with the
During the year, the Board was briefed on various regulatory and challenges it faced. The quality of decision making and
corporate governance developments. This principally included the contribution of Board members was influenced by:
anticipated impact of the new UK and EU rules on auditing market
• the open culture and strong support for the Board’s senior roles;
reform and the Financial Reporting Council’s consultation on, and
subsequent publication of, an updated UK Corporate Governance • a thoughtful and disciplined approach to the use and
Code and associated guidance covering remuneration, going management of time, and
concern, internal control and risk management.
• improving risk, control and remuneration oversight.
The Board members undertook specific refresher training on,
Dr Long’s report had noted that there was good engagement
and under the provisions of, the Corporate Integrity Agreement
on issues and management interacted well with the Board and
(CIA) in 2014. Each new Board member is required, as part of
its Committees, responding positively to constructive challenge
his or her induction programme, to receive comprehensive training
and enquiry. This was an aspect of Board dynamics that was
on the CIA. Sir Philip Hampton and Urs Rohner have each taken
considered to be outstanding compared to other Boards.
part in such a training session in January 2015 as part of their
induction programmes.
GSK Annual Report 2014 83Corporate governance
continued
However, Dr Long’s report stressed that it was a time of We have a briefing process in place for Non-Executive Directors,
significant transition for the company and the Board. The context managed by the Chairman, to focus on sector specific issues and
within which the Board operated was changing and the Board’s general shareholder preferences.
modus operandi would need to evolve with it. Future challenges
During the year, those aspects of our corporate governance included the Board’s ability to:
arrangements that have been raised by investors and discussed
• anticipate changes to the external landscape; with relevant Board Directors included;
• manage the transition from Sir Christopher to Sir Philip; and • Board composition and refreshment, including the process used
to search for Sir Christopher’s replacement as Chairman;
• refresh the composition of the Board, including some of the
most senior roles on the Board. • China and the company’s ABAC procedures and practices;
The agreed action points from Dr Long’s report focused mainly on • External audit contract tendering arrangements; and
addressing these challenges and they are disclosed on page 81.
• Reporting of annual bonus performance and the description/
Chairman and Non-Executive Director evaluation operation of our malus/clawback mechanism.
The Non-Executive Directors, led by Sir Deryck, met separately,
without Sir Christopher being present, to discuss his performance.
Accountability
They considered his leadership, performance and overall
contribution to be of a high standard and he continues to have
Internal control framework
their full support.
The Board recognises its responsibilities to present a fair,
The Chairman met with each Non-Executive Director to discuss balanced and understandable assessment of the Group’s
individual contributions and performance, together with training position and prospects.
and development needs.
The Board has accountability for reviewing and approving
In addition, the Chairman met with all the Non-Executive Directors the effectiveness of internal controls operated by the Group,
independently of the Executive Directors. including financial, operational and compliance controls,
and risk management.
Relations with shareholders The GSK Internal Control Framework (the Framework) is
the means by which GSK assures compliance with laws
We work to engage effectively with shareholders through our regular and regulations, the reliability of financial reporting and the
communications, the AGM and other investor relations activities. effectiveness of risk management. The Framework assists in the
identification, evaluation, and management of principal risks as
We announce our financial results on a quarterly basis. The annual
required by the UK Corporate Governance Code (the UK Code), results are included in our Annual Report. All shareholders receive
and is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of not
an Annual Summary which advises them that our Annual Report and
achieving business objectives. A fit-for-purpose internal control
Notice of our Annual General Meeting are available on our website.
framework, in conjunction with embedding the GSK Values and
During the year, Sir Andrew Witty and Simon Dingemans gave our ‘Speak Up’ reporting lines, ensures that our Principal Risks
presentations to institutional investors, analysts and the media are actively and effectively controlled. For more information see
on the full year results, which are also available via webcast and ‘Risk Management’ on pages 16 to 17.
teleconference. After the first, second and third quarter results,
The Framework is designed to ensure the risks associated with
we hold webcast teleconferences for the same audience.
conducting our business activities are effectively controlled in line
Our results are available on our website.
with GSK’s risk appetite. We believe the Framework provides
Our Investor Relations department, with offices in London reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material
and Philadelphia, acts as a focal point for communications with misstatement or loss.
investors. The CEO, CFO and the Chairman maintain a continuous
To ensure effective governance and an ethical culture, GSK has
dialogue with institutional shareholders on performance, plans and
established the Risk Oversight and Compliance Council (ROCC).
objectives through a programme of regular meetings. During the
This team of senior leaders is authorised by the Board to assist
year they held over 66 individual meetings with investors and they
the Audit & Risk Committee (the Committee) in overseeing risk
have also hosted approximately 20 group meetings with investors
management and internal control activities. It also provides the
and potential investors.
business with a framework for risk management, upward reporting
The Company Secretary acts as a focal point for communications of significant risks, GSK Values and policies. Reporting upwards
on corporate governance matters. We also have a small central to the ROCC is a risk board structure within each business unit
Corporate Responsibility (CR) team which co-ordinates strategy, and global support function. These Risk Management and
policy development and reporting specifically with respect to CR Compliance Boards (RMCB) are responsible for local “tone
matters. The team communicates with socially responsible from the top”, risk management and internal controls.
investors and other stakeholders.
The ROCC and the RMCBs are assisted by Global Ethics
The Chairman also meets regularly with institutional shareholders and Compliance (GEC), which is responsible for supporting
to hear their views and discuss issues of mutual importance, and risk management and the development and implementation of
communicates their views to the other members of the Board. practices that facilitate employees’ compliance with laws and
The SID and all the Non-Executive Directors are available to policy. GEC also provides assistance to help employees meet
meet with shareholders. high ethical standards by operating in accordance with our
Values, and to comply with applicable laws and regulations
The Chairman, Remuneration and Audit & Risk Committee
and corporate responsibility.
Chairmen, the SID, Company Secretary and the Head of Human
Resources held their annual meetings with major shareholders in
November 2014 to discuss executive remuneration and corporate
governance matters.
84 GSK Annual Report 2014
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
informationStrategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
E n t
erprise Oversight
G (i.eS .K a’ ss
s
A uu rad nit
c
&
e)
A tos s su er na in oc
r
e
m
( aA n& aA g)
e
mpr eo nv tid ae ns
d
a tn
h
eo b Bj oe ac rt div e
o
fv i he ow
w
Control fra Inmdeepweonrd kent Assurance
r A a o
o a
T
G r
t
o
T
o
o
fohei n nts
f
f
fp
h
hs
reEh
lk d
d
a
c
r
te
ee s
e
h
tiC t
C
o
su r hi ea
t
C
Br
es a
kh
nr ed
d
o
a
sta
o
soe
t
sb iv
m
nt
ron
y
a
ym
iae
o
ai
n
eC
dc ns srmki
nl
dtm
an e a so
te eo
A
d
e
ri
,g .l r
t
ih
r
mP m&ty tta
cn
tto
hem hl m
em
oA a
ra
l
re
oee
d
e
vla on b
i
fo
s
et
c
e
rn u. Frti
e
ip
n
rt
or
ea
e
gT
nr
ei
ps
o o ang
e
c
th
ha
d.
o
en mn t.e
e
i
rA
rs
t
rres s bd
i
o
h
net
v&i
a
sa
y
lb
e
aa
e
wsa
s
As li n
as
t.c l
oC
s hi
c
od nFtr
h
r
ru ii ooo
f
n
e
k
se
oa
r b nms
u
,spa s
ls
Au ls
ti aao
n
o
g
m
ri i
na
nln l owc rt lnd nyth
i
d
le
d
tisf ii
s
ufie tnn u
tu
e
hh
o
acf
gg il aG
nr
e
afie
lao
tl
l s,ct Rl hnl
o
r mp r ri hoo n u
ee
t
c
p
es
a
nu g s
p
r
o
peB
B
sit sp t
o
s
n
orh o
u
i
o
a
w
k
rdr
s
rei u
s
en
tt
a
tieim
ii
tir dvt
on
rn
o
a
rl h
d
is ei
g
nae
e
n
n m
t
t ro
t
ws
dohre
e
al
ia
i
oe u
s
e
n
n
d
ce
uw t e nr ee
U
rd
pG
t
tt opi
h
g
o
ht
ni
tt sh a
n
tr
ei
f
ehh
i
oc
o
s
t
tt
t
eea i
eo
u
ehe
H
ta
t
in
f
hpr
f
haen tn
f
f
e
eh
e
esa o et sd aas
e
c
s
eg v
c
dn
G
d
t
ee ar
tC
d
i
ars
ie
v
sr n
rve
t
s
,
oee
F
s
e
eod pi
n
ud mOg
nn o
oe
p
eh
r
e
fs
t
s
t
ns
s
st, ot
P ro
b
leDi ms
sI
eR
sc pi
o
nEp
dn
l n ii nf
gond
re c
e eap
mn
M
Mede
n
a
otn
n
nd
a
itge
oA
eBn
rot
P ro mb
ileD
nAt
ci mu s
s
I
eR
sc
p
e
gs
i
o
nB
Ep
dtn
l n
is
ni nfs
gonde iru
te
cRE es vieaIs i s
p
nmnn s n
M
Mem ii dek Cdn
n
at
t
otn
ee ne oe ne
d
i
an ip
s
m
tr
ge
es t oAe eBp
n
s
rs
m
msn
inAt
cr
u
d
eu
gsM Bi
ts
ne nss
& e iiu
to n
R
cse
viCs S i
st an
nso
t
t m ii inka
CnAiO
t
t
on
et
reo one
dWo s
iln
sav
s
mr es
rs tr
i
dti
s
stse u men
sn
rr g
uTM
raa
ini
ns
ng&
in
o
ci CSc
an
og
tt
inae
i
t
onth
ro
ndWo
lsar
rrt
i
dti sten ng
Training
its approval by the Board. The Board’s review focuses on the
company and its subsidiaries and does not extend to material
associated undertakings, joint ventures or other investments,
although it considers the risk of the company’s participation in
these activities. There are established procedures and controls GSK ValGuSe Ks Values
in place to identify entities whose results must be consolidated
with the Group’s results. Key Key
Individual Acc o u nIntdaibviidliutayl Accountability
We believe the process followed by the Board in reviewing the Line Management Accountability with Compliance
Line Management Accountability with Compliance
system of internal controls accords with the guidance on internal Business Management Accountability with Compliance
Business Man a g eAmudeitn &t AAscscuoraunncetability with Compliance
control issued by the Turnbull Committee. This is in accordance
Audit & Assurance
with the provisions of the UK Code, which provide that the Board
is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the
significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic
objectives. The Board provides oversight to help ensure that
the Group maintains sound risk management and internal control
systems. The Framework has been in operation for the whole year
and continues to operate up to the date of the approval of this
Annual Report.
A review of the Group’s risk management approach is further
discussed in the Risk Management section of the Strategic
Report on pages 16 to 17. Our management of each Principal
Risk is explained in the Risk Factors section of the Financial
Report on pages 232 to 241.
Committee reports
The reports of the Audit & Risk, Nominations and Corporate
Responsibility Committees, describing the activities of those
Committees during the year, are set out on pages 86 to 95.
Remuneration report
Our Remuneration report comprises the Remuneration
Committee Chairman’s annual statement and the annual report
on remuneration and is set out on pages 96 to 118. In addition,
we have reproduced for convenience the 2014 Remuneration
policy report, which is set out on pages 119 to 128.
GSK Annual Report 2014 85Corporate governance
continued
Further enhancing our ABAC arrangements
Audit & Risk Committee Report
These have remained a high priority for the Committee in
2014. We continue to review the lessons learned from recent
investigations, particularly those at our Chinese operations in
2013, and ask how we can improve the effectiveness of our
Anti-Bribery and Corruption (ABAC) approach. Significant steps
that the Committee has taken to further strengthen our ABAC
capabilities and controls across the Group include:
• a detailed review of our operations and ongoing presence
in higher risk territories;
• enhancing the ongoing monitoring of compliance with
ABAC-related controls in targeted emerging market
territories to help identify and implement further enhanced
controls where appropriate;
• our Emerging Markets and European General Managers
completing reviews of their key controls and documenting
Dear Shareholder adherence to GSK’s values, policies and procedures as well
In last year’s Committee report, I stressed the importance of as applicable local laws and regulations. Specific improvement
vigilance and continuous improvements to our internal control, plans have also been identified and are in the process of being
financial reporting and risk management processes and systems. implemented in a number of countries;
However, the Committee has also been focused on a number
• creation of a specialist ABAC Centre of Excellence to provide
of activities associated with, and beyond, its core remit, in order
training, due diligence and expert guidance capabilities for
to review the risk environment and exposures across the Group
senior management across the Group;
comprehensively. In doing so, it has overseen the implementation
of a number of planned changes and further enhancements to our • expanding the footprint and capabilities of our Global Ethics
governance. This is principally around our compliance and risk and Compliance (GEC) organisation in designated higher risk
management policies and procedures as well as close monitoring and emerging markets;
of the ongoing transformation of our finance processes and control
• ensuring that the resources and capabilities of our ABAC
environment, including the very extensive upgrades and updating
investigations team were strengthened;
of our IT systems. We have also considered the implications of
the changes in the US market environment, particularly pricing • further increasing the oversight of our third party suppliers
dynamics, and the implementation of our ongoing cyber with the initiation of a new risk assessment and monitoring
protection programme, Infoprotect. framework that is now being rolled out across the Group; and
Refocusing of the ROCC and the inclusion of Enterprise risks • review of the progress of the external (Ropes and Gray)
The Committee has strengthened key areas of our risk and internal China investigations, which have now been
management structure. Following a review of the Risk Oversight ongoing for over a year and a half, and continued to be a
and Compliance Council’s (ROCC) purpose, practices and standing agenda item at Committee meetings throughout
membership, representation from our business units was adjusted 2014. We are committed to implementing Ropes and Gray’s
to ensure that its membership was more appropriately aligned conclusions. Many actions have already been implemented by
with the changing shape of the business. In particular, CET a new management team, including enhanced procedures for
representation was increased, providing a much stronger strategic monitoring the use of third party suppliers and local financial
direction to the ROCC’s deliberations and increasing its ability to transactions. The Committee will continue to monitor progress
consider cross enterprise risk exposures alongside its existing in the related investigations closely until they are concluded.
reviews of GSK’s Principal risks.
Leadership of Global Compliance and Audit & Assurance
To reinforce this approach, the Committee agreed with the ROCC Our risk management boards are supported by our Global
to implement the designation of six Enterprise risks that specifically Compliance operations, which have been reorganised as
consider, for a particular risk, the potential exposures across Global Ethics and Compliance under the leadership of Nick
GSK as a whole, as well as within individual business units and Hirons, who had previously been Head of Audit & Assurance.
functions. The ROCC and the Committee have been especially
Our Audit & Assurance (A&A) function has also been reorganised
focused on assessing and managing compounding or
under new leadership and the function now reports to the CFO,
consequential factors.
but is directly accountable to this Committee for providing it and
In-country risk oversight the Board with effective assurance. Recent external benchmarking
At an operational level, the Committee also approved the confirmed that the A&A team provided such assurance but also
establishment of Country Executive Risk Boards (CERBs) to identified a number of areas for enhancement, including more local
provide a means for our different business units operating in coverage and more frequent, shorter audit reviews, alongside the
a particular country to manage the Principal risks which might regular more detailed reviews, to enhance flexibility and improve
impact on more than one business unit more effectively from a visibility. I believe these changes will improve the Committee’s
country perspective. Their work complements the work of our ability to identify emerging risks proactively.
existing Risk Management and Compliance Boards (RMCBs)
that are now well-embedded in each of our major business
units. CERBs and RMCBs report into the ROCC on a regular
review cycle.
86 GSK Annual Report 2014
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
informationStrategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Finance transformation My role
The Committee continued to focus on the ongoing enhancement Finally, in my role as the Chair of the Committee, I continue to widen
programme for our finance processes, including the creation of and deepen my knowledge and understanding of the Group and the
stronger shared service capabilities within our Core Business external environment in which GSK operates, together with best
Services (CBS) operation. This programme is targeted at improving practice developments. In addition to holding regular meetings with
our control environment by standardising our finance policies key senior executives and attending a range of management
and processes and updating them for the changing shape of the meetings, including the CET, ROCC and Finance Leadership Team
business. The programme includes a substantial upgrading of our meetings, I have also attended briefing meetings with our external
IT platforms and, in particular, our enterprise resource planning auditors, discussed aspects of the Committee’s work with our
(ERP) systems to create common platforms across each of our shareholders and networked with audit committee chairmen at our
business units. Together, these improvements will deliver more peers to exchange views on regulatory and market developments,
consistent processes and controls and allow the business to principally in the risk management and compliance arena.
manage its financial risks more effectively.
Judy Lewent
Implementation of this programme has created significant change Audit & Risk Committee Chairman
in the business. The Committee has reviewed its progress in detail 26 February 2015
with input from our external auditors to ensure that effective controls
remain in place during and after this transition. Year end reviews
Membership and attendance
have not identified any material concerns.
The membership of the Committee, together with appointment
US pricing dates and attendance at meetings, is set out below:
In light of the significant changes we have seen during the year in
Attendance at full
the US market place, the Committee has reviewed the implications meetings during
of these changes for our Principal risks. In particular, we carry Members Committee member since 2014
significant provisions for returns and rebates offered to US customers Judy Lewent (Chairman
and in times of significant change these need to be especially from 1 January 2013) 1 April 2011 6/6
carefully monitored to ensure they are aligned with current Lynn Elsenhans 1 January 2014 6/6
experience. Investments in new IT platforms in recent years have Stacey Cartwright 1 April 2011 6/6
allowed us to remain responsive during the year despite often rapid Sir Deryck Maughan 21 January 2005 6/6
change in the external environment and the Committee believes our Dr Daniel Podolsky 1 January 2007 6/6
provisioning in this area remains appropriate and adequate. Tom de Swaan 1 January 2006 6/6
Infoprotect Jing Ulrich 1 May 2013 6/6
The company is well underway with a multi-year programme to
In addition to the six scheduled meetings, the Committee also met
enhance and strengthen our cyber security defences. The Committee
on a quorate basis on five occasions to review or approve matters
reviewed progress of this programme in detail with the recently
associated with the Annual Report and Form 20-F, and preliminary
appointed Chief Information Security Officer. We have made
and quarterly results announcements.
significant progress despite an increasing level of threat. Additional
investments have been agreed to support this effort. Details of the members’ financial, accounting or scientific experience
are given in their biographies under ‘Our Board’ on pages 72 to 75.
Proposed three-part Novartis transaction
In preparation for this transformative transaction, the Committee The entire Board is invited to attend the Committee meetings and
has reviewed the ROCC’s assessments of the risk profile of the other attendees include:
Novartis businesses that will become part of the Group. This review
Regular Attends
has utilised our Principal and Enterprise risks as a framework. Attendee attendee as required
Detailed mitigation plans are in place for risk issues identified Chairman ✓
and to ensure the incoming Novartis businesses can be successfully CEO ✓
incorporated into the GSK risk monitoring framework. None of the CFO ✓
risks identified was expected to give rise to material exposures, General Counsel ✓
although this position is being monitored closely by the transaction
Financial Controller ✓
integration planning teams. The ROCC has in place plans to
Head of Audit & Assurance ✓
review progress in managing these risks on a regular basis and the
Company Secretary – Secretary to the Committee ✓
Committee will review these shortly after closing to ensure that our
Chairman, Global Vaccines ✓
standards, values and culture are properly embedded into the
Head of Global Ethics and Compliance ✓
reshaped and enlarged organisation.
Chief Medical Officer ✓
External auditors Chief Product Quality Officer ✓
I would also like to assure shareholders how seriously the External auditor ✓
Committee takes its role and responsibility in appointing, assessing
and monitoring the performance of the company’s auditors. The In accordance with the UK Code, the Board has determined that
Committee has, as usual, reviewed PwC’s performance during the Stacey Cartwright, Judy Lewent and Tom de Swaan all have recent
year and the audit process that they undertook and believes they and relevant financial experience. The Board has also agreed that they
continue to provide a high quality service to the company and its each have the appropriate qualifications and background to be audit
shareholders. The Committee has therefore recommended their committee financial experts as defined by the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act
reappointment for a further year. Given the current level of change of 2002 and has determined that each is independent within the
in the business, the Committee concluded that it was not appropriate meaning of the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
to put the audit out to tender in 2015. However, having reviewed the
In addition, Judy Lewent, Sir Deryck Maughan and Tom de Swaan
relative merits of conducting a tender and the recent changes in
are also members of the Remuneration Committee, which allows
regulations in this area, the Committee has concluded that we should
them to provide input on the Committee’s review of the Group’s
move towards a tender for new Auditors but that we should target the
performance and oversight on any risk factors relevant to
new firm taking over the audit for the 2018 financial year. To deliver
remuneration matters.
this objective, we expect that we will start to prepare for a tender in
the second half of 2016.
GSK Annual Report 2014 87Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Corporate governance
continued
Work undertaken by the Committee during 2014
The Committee has worked largely to a recurring and structured programme of activities agreed in conjunction with the Committee Chair,
management and the external auditors at the start of the financial year. This programme comprised standing items that the Committee was
required to consider at each meeting and other matters timed to coincide with key events of the annual financial reporting cycle and other
business events.
The Committee considered, discussed and made decisions in relation to a number of matters during the year, the most significant of which
are set out below.
Global internal control Governance and
Month Financial reporting & compliance External auditors Risk other matters
January • Integrity of draft financial • Annual Internal Control • Assessment of external • China investigations and • Compliance with UK
statements and and Compliance report auditors, effectiveness of ABAC update Corporate Governance
appropriateness of • L itigation report external audit process • Emerging risk review Code
accounting policies • C orporate Integrity • R e-appointment of • Latest Annual Report
• Draft 2013 Annual Agreement (CIA) update auditors proposed for regulations
Report and 20-F and approval at AGM • C orporate governance
Annual Summary leaflet • E xternal auditor update
• D irectors’ expenses year-end audit findings • Private meeting with the
external auditors
February • G oing concern • S arbanes-Oxley • A udit/non-audit
assumption confirmation expenditure during 2013
• P reliminary results • E xternal auditor
announcement Sarbanes-Oxley control
• Approval of 2013 Annual findings
Report and Form 20-F • External auditor Annual
and Annual Summary Report and Form 20-F
leaflet findings
March • Approach on Sarbanes- • P erformance • China investigations and • Private meeting with the
Oxley compliance for expectations for ABAC update external auditors
2014 external auditors • Emerging risk review
• GMS business unit • ROCC meeting update
report
• Audit & Assurance
(A&A) work
during 2013 and
plan for 2014
• L itigation report
April • 1st Quarter results • E xternal auditor
announcement 1st Quarter results
review findings
May • C IA compliance • External audit plan and • C hina investigations and • Private meeting with the
• L itigation report fee proposal for 2014 ABAC update external auditors
• P roduct Quality
Enterprise Risk
• Vaccines and Emerging
Markets business unit
risks
• E merging risk review
• ROCC meeting update
July • G oing concern • Controls at GSK listed • E xternal auditor • China investigations and • C orporate governance
assumptions and JV subsidiaries 2nd Quarter results ABAC update update
• 2nd Quarter results • L itigation report review findings • Patient Safety Enterprise • Private meeting with the
announcement • R &D Pharmaceuticals Risk external auditors
and North American • Emerging risk review
Pharmaceuticals • ROCC meeting update
business unit reports
September • Japan and Consumer • China investigations and • Private meeting with the
Healthcare business unit ABAC update external auditors
reports • EHSS Enterprise Risk
• E xternal independent • E merging risk review
review of A&A • ROCC meeting update
• Evolution of Emerging
Markets compliance
model
• CIA update reports
October • 3rd Quarter results • L itigation report • E xternal auditor
announcement 3rd Quarter results
review findings
88 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Global internal control Governance and
Month Financial reporting & compliance External auditors Risk other matters
December • Key accounting issues • Europe business unit • External auditor Phase • China investigations • Corporate governance
and appropriateness of report One findings and ABAC update update
accounting policies • Global Support • Pre-approval of budget • ABAC and Commercial • Tax strategy review
Functions business unit for auditors to provide Practices & Scientific • External committee
report Non-Audit Services for Engagement Enterprise evaluation
• Litigation report 2015 and update on Risks • Private meeting with
2014 budget • Infoprotect review external auditors
• Operational Excellence • Collective meeting with
programme review Heads of A&A and
• Emerging risk review GEC
• Individual meetings
with Heads of A&A
and GEC
In respect of financial reporting activities, the Committee reviews and recommends to the Finance Committee for its approval all financial
results announcements. In considering the quarterly financial results announcements and the annual financial results contained in the
2014 Annual Report, the Committee reviewed the significant issues and judgements made by management in determining those results.
The Committee reviewed papers prepared by management setting out the key areas of risk, the actions undertaken to quantify the effects
of the relevant issues and the judgements made by management on the appropriate accounting required to address those issues in the
financial statements.
Significant issues relating to the financial statements
The significant issues considered in relation to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014 are set out in the following
table, together with a summary of the financial outcomes where appropriate. In addition, the Committee and the external auditors have
discussed the significant issues addressed by the Committee during the year and the areas of particular audit focus, as described in the
Independent Auditor’s Report on pages 131 to 135.
Significant issues considered
by the Committee in relation to
the financial statements How the issue was addressed by the Committee
Going concern basis for the The Committee considered the outcome of management’s half-yearly reviews of current and forecast net debt
preparation of the financial positions and the various financing facilities and options available to the Group. Following a review of the risk and
statements potential impact of unforeseen events, the Committee confirmed that the application of the going concern basis for
the preparation of the financial statements continued to be appropriate.
Revenue recognition, including The Committee reviewed management’s approach to the timing of recognition of revenue and accruals for
returns and rebates (RAR) customer returns and rebates. The US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines accrual for returns and rebates was £1.3
accruals billion at 31 December 2014 and the Committee reviewed the basis on which the accrual had been made and
concurred with management’s judgements on the amounts involved. A fuller description of the process operated
in the US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines business in determining the level of accrual necessary is set out in
‘Critical accounting policies’ on page 63.
Provisions for legal matters, The Committee received detailed reports on actual and potential litigation from both internal and external legal
including recent government counsel, together with a number of detailed updates concerning the government investigations in relation to China.
investigations in relation to Management outlined the levels of provision and corresponding disclosure considered necessary in respect of
China to the extent that they potential adverse litigation outcomes and also those areas where it was not yet possible to determine if a provision
can be determined was necessary, or its amount. At 31 December 2014, the provision for legal matters was £0.5 billion, as set out in
Note 29 to the financial statements, ‘Other provisions’.
Provisions for tax issues The Committee considered current tax disputes and areas of potential risk and concurred with management’s
judgement on the levels of tax contingencies required. At 31 December 2014, the Group’s balance sheet included
a tax payable liability of £0.9 billion.
Impairments of intangible The Committee reviewed management’s process for reviewing and testing goodwill and other intangible assets
assets for potential impairment. The Committee accepted management’s judgements on the intangible assets that
required writing down and the resulting impairment charge of £157 million in 2014. See Note 19 to the financial
statements, ‘Other intangible assets’ for more details.
Provisions for pension and other The Committee reviewed the significant assumptions adopted by management for the valuations of obligations
post-employment obligations for the Group’s largest pension and post-retirement healthcare schemes in the UK and the US, together with the
resultant net obligation amounts, as calculated by external actuaries. The Group’s net deficit at 31 December
2014 amounted to £3.1 billion as set out in Note 28 to the financial statements, ‘Pensions and other post-
employment benefits’.
US Branded Prescription The Committee reviewed and concurred with management’s assessment of the additional charge necessary to
Drug fee account for a further year of the fee in accordance with the final regulations issued by the US IRS in the year.
Valuation of contingent The Committee considered management’s judgement that following the improved sales performance of Tivicay
consideration and Triumeq, it was necessary to increase the liability to pay contingent consideration for the acquisition of the
former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture. At 31 December 2014, the Group’s balance sheet included a net
contingent consideration liability of £1.7 billion. See Note 38 to the financial statements, ‘Acquisitions and disposals’
for more details.
GSK Annual Report 2014 89Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Corporate governance
continued
Effectiveness of external audit process • robustness of the audit process;
In evaluating the effectiveness of the audit process prior to making • quality of the delivery;
a recommendation on the re-appointment of the external auditors, • quality of the people; and
the Committee reviews the effectiveness of their performance • quality of the service.
against criteria which it agrees, in conjunction with management,
Having reviewed all this feedback provided through the
at the beginning of each year’s audit.
mechanisms outlined above, and noted any areas of improvement
In undertaking this review, the Committee considers the overall to be implemented in respect of the team or the following year’s
quality of the audit, the independence of the auditors and whether audit, provided the Committee:
they have exhibited an appropriate level of challenge and
• is satisfied with the effectiveness of the auditors and the external
scepticism in their work.
audit process;
The annual Committee evaluation seeks feedback from Committee
• is satisfied with the auditors’ independence, appropriate level
members independently on the relationship with the auditors, the
of qualifications, expertise and resources; and
quality of insight they provide to the Committee on their work and
whether the Committee has sufficient access to the auditors without • has considered whether it is in the best interests of shareholders
executive management. and the company to initiate or defer a tender.
Finally, the Committee considers feedback on the prior year’s it will then consider recommending to the Board the
external audit through a survey that seeks views from the financial re-appointment of the auditors at the forthcoming AGM.
management team at corporate and business unit level. It covers
The detailed criteria the Committee uses for judging the
four key areas:
effectiveness of the external auditors and their overriding
responsibility to deliver a smooth running, thorough and efficiently
executed audit are set out below:
Performance expectations for GSK’s external auditor
Specific auditor responsibilities Wider auditor responsibilities
• Discuss approach and areas of focus in advance with early • P rovide up-to-date knowledge of technical issues, providing
engagement on understanding the implications of GSK’s new accurate and timely advice
operating model • S erve as an industry resource; communicating best practice
• Ensure Sarbanes-Oxley scope and additional procedures are and industry trends in reporting
discussed and endorsed by management and communicated on a • A dhere to all independence policies (including GSK’s policies,
timely basis within GSK and PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) the Financial Reporting Council’s ISA 240 and applicable
• Avoid surprises through timely reporting of issues at all levels within Securities and Exchange Commission standards)
the Group • D eliver a focused and consistent audit approach globally that
• Ensure there is clarity of roles and responsibilities between the reflects local risks and materiality
auditors and local management • L iaise with GSK’s Audit & Assurance team to avoid duplication of
work and Global Ethics and Compliance team to ensure common
• Respond to any issues raised by management on a timely basis
understanding of audit outcomes
• Meet agreed deadlines
• P rovide consistency of advice at all levels of the organisation.
• Provide continuity and succession planning of key employees of
the auditors
• Provide sufficient time for management to consider draft auditor
reports and respond to requests and queries
• Employ consistent communication between local and central
audit teams.
Audit tendering However, given the integration challenges of the three-part Novartis
PwC has remained in place as auditors since the Group’s transaction, the ongoing finance transformation, further service
inception in December 2000. Their performance has been enhancements made by PwC, and having received competitive
reviewed annually and audit partner rotation requirements have audit fee proposals from PwC, the Committee agreed there was
been observed since that time. However, the audit contract has currently a preference not to distract management and the
not been put out to tender in that period. Committee by undertaking a tender at this stage. However, the
Committee also concluded that it would plan to undertake a tender
We observe the Financial Reporting Council’s current transitional
process in the second half of 2016 with a view to appointing the
arrangements where an audit tender is tied to the end of the cycle
new firm with effect from 1 January 2018.
of the current rotating audit partner. Our current audit partner has
held the position for two years. The implications of the transitional Non-audit services
arrangements for both the Competition and Markets Authority’s The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 prohibits the engagement of the
audit contract tender regulations and the EU audit firm rotation external auditors for the provision of certain services such as legal,
requirements were also assessed when the Committee considered actuarial, internal audit outsourcing or financial information systems
putting the audit contract out to tender. design. Where the external auditors are permitted to provide
non-audit services (such as audit-related, tax and other services),
In addition, as part of the Committee’s review, evolving market
the Committee ensures that auditor objectivity and independence
practice and the changing expectations of shareholders were
are safeguarded by a policy requiring pre-approval by the
also noted.
Committee for such services. There were no contractual or similar
obligations restricting the Group’s choice of external auditors.
90 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
All non-audit services over £50,000 are put out to competitive
Audit/non-audit service three year comparison graph (£m)
tender with financial service providers other than the external
auditors, in line with the Group’s procurement process, unless the
skills and experience of the external auditors make them the most 20
20.0 suitable supplier of the non-audit service under consideration, in 19.6
which case a request for proposal is submitted by the relevant
17.4
CET member to the CFO for approval. 16
The following policy guidelines on engaging the external auditors
8.6
to provide non-audit services are observed: 12
• ascertaining that the skills and experience of the external
auditors make them a suitable supplier of the non-audit services;
08
• ensuring adequate safeguards are in place so that the objectivity
and independence of the Group audit are not threatened or 5.8 5.7 5.3
04
compromised; and
• ensure that the total fee levels do not exceed 50% of the annual
audit fee, except in special circumstances where there would be 0
2012 2013 2014
a clear advantage in the company’s auditors undertaking such
additional work. Audit and assurance services
Other services, including tax, regulatory, compliance
During the year, fees for the non-audit service work carried out and treasury-related services
by PwC were 73% of the annual audit fee. This exceptional level Services related to the three-part Novartis transaction
reflects the considerable services PwC has provided relating to the
reporting accountant role in connection with the Class 1 Circular
for the three-part Novartis transaction. Excluding the Novartis work, Code of Conduct and reporting lines
PwC’s non-audit service fees would have represented 28% of the We also have a number of well established policies, including a
annual audit fee. The Committee considered that hiring PwC to Code of Conduct, which is available on the governance section
undertake the Class 1 Circular work was in the best interests of of our website, and confidential ‘Speak Up’ reporting lines for
shareholders because: the reporting and investigation of unlawful conduct. An updated
version of the Code of Conduct was published in January 2014.
• PwC possessed the type of expertise, experience, size
and international scope required to handle a major Class 1
Fair, balanced and understandable assessment
transaction of this scale and complexity; One of the key compliance requirements of a group’s financial
• the company benefited specifically from PwC’s in-depth statements is for the Annual Report to be fair, balanced and
knowledge and understanding of our Vaccines, Consumer understandable. The coordination and review of Group-wide
Healthcare and Oncology businesses and their processes contributions into the Annual Report follows a well established
and compliance environment; and documented process, which is performed in parallel with
the formal process undertaken by the external auditors.
• management time, that would otherwise have been devoted
to educating another firm on the company’s business and The Committee received a summary of the approach taken by
operations, could instead be spent on delivering a transaction management in the preparation of GSK’s 2014 Annual Report to
that will substantially strengthen two of the Group’s core ensure that it met the requirements of the UK Code. This enabled
businesses and create significant new options to increase value the Committee, and then the Board, to confirm that GSK’s 2014
for shareholders; and Annual Report taken as a whole is fair, balanced and
understandable.
• the Committee could leverage PwC’s capabilities to negotiate
the most advantageous and cost-effective price. Committee evaluation
The Committee’s annual evaluation was externally facilitated by
In addition, it should be noted that £3.6 million of the Novartis-
Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom Review Limited, and supplemented
related fees due to PwC arose from work done by Novartis’ by a questionnaire circulated to Committee members by the
auditors who are also PwC.
Committee Chairman. It was concluded that the Committee
To maintain the external auditors’ independence and objectivity, continued to operate effectively. In terms of enhancements to
for those Class I Circular workstreams where a self review threat the Committee’s deliberations, it was agreed that the following
was identified, an independent partner not involved in the audit areas will be considered further to underpin the Committee’s
was appointed to lead them. Management reviewed and effectiveness:
considered PwC’s findings and PwC did not make any decisions
• More regular updates on new or emerging issues and
on behalf of management. Additionally, PwC had no input in
anticipating, through a streamlined reporting process,
respect of the production of financial information subsequently
potential risk and audit issues;
used by the audit team.
• Increase focus on setting, monitoring and adjusting risk appetite;
Fees paid to the company’s auditor and its associates are set
out below. Further details are given in Note 8 to the financial • Widening and deepening the Committee’s exposure to certain
statements, ‘Operating profit’. areas of the business and the external landscape to further
increase understanding of potential threats and opportunities;
Where possible, other accounting firms are engaged to undertake
non-audit services. • Further enhance training requirements for Committee members;
and
• Consider the division of focus on risk areas between the Board
and the Committee.
GSK Annual Report 2014 91Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Corporate governance
continued
The following key attributes were identified:
Nominations Committee Report
• having experience of running a listed global organisation in
a highly regulated industry with a clear and collegiate style
of leadership;
• possessing a comprehensive knowledge and understanding
of UK corporate governance arrangements;
Sir Philip Hampton
Nominations Committee • having a deep appreciation of UK shareholder and media
Chairman perspectives; and
• treating the role as his or her primary commitment with a view
Membership to serving in the role over the medium to long term.
The membership of the Nominations Committee (the Committee),
These criteria were deemed key to the success of the new
together with appointment dates and attendance at meetings,
appointee and MWM, who specialises in the recruitment of high
is set out below:
calibre Board Directors, was engaged to ensure that the widest
possible pool of candidates was available to select from. MWM
Attendance at
full meetings only provides recruitment consultancy services to the Committee.
Members Committee member since during 2014 Their work was validated from time-to-time to ensure that there
Sir Philip Hampton were no gaps in the search process and that the Committee was
(Chairman from receiving the best possible market advice for this key appointment.
The search was initiated by the Chairman and Senior Independent 27 January 2015) 27 January 2015 0/0
Director (SID) with support from the Head of Human Resources
Professor Sir Roy Anderson 1 October 2012 4/4
and the Company Secretary. As the search progressed and drew
Lynn Elsenhans 27 January 2015 0/0
to a conclusion, it was led by the SID. Regular oversight of the
Sir Christopher Gent
process was exercised by the Committee and shareholders were
(Chairman from 1 January briefed on the search criteria used and progress made by the
2005 to 26 January 2015) 9 December 2004 4/4 Committee in identifying suitable candidates.
Judy Lewent 8 May 2014 3/3
The pool of suitable candidates was reduced to a short-list.
Sir Deryck Maughan 9 July 2009 4/4
Briefing reports on the shortlisted candidates were reviewed and
Tom de Swaan 1 October 2012 4/4
candidates met with key Board members. It became clear to the
Sir Robert Wilson* 28 March 2008 1/1
Board and the Committee that Sir Philip Hampton was the most
* Sir Robert Wilson retired from the Board on 7 May 2014. suitable candidate to succeed Sir Christopher as Chairman.
In addition to the scheduled meetings, the Committee also met on On 24 September 2014, in accordance with the Committee’s
a quorate basis on two occasions to consider and recommend to terms of reference, Sir Deryck Maughan, our SID, chaired the
the Board the appointments of Sir Philip Hampton and Urs Rohner meeting of the Nominations Committee that recommended
as Chairman Designate and a Non-Executive Director. Sir Philip’s appointment as a Non-Executive Director and
successor to Sir Christopher.
Other attendees at Committee meetings may include:
Feedback from investors was then sought before the Committee
Regular Attends made its recommendations to the Board. This positively
Attendee attendee as required
supported Sir Philip’s appointment.
Chief Executive Officer ✓
Head of Human Resources ✓ The subsequent appointment recommendation received
unanimous Board approval on 25 September 2014 it was
Company Secretary – Secretary to the Committee ✓
announced that Sir Philip would join the Board as a Non-Executive
Appropriate external advisers ✓
Director with effect from 1 January 2015 and would become
Chairman succession Deputy Chairman with effect from 1 April 2015. He will succeed
In 2010, it was unanimously agreed to extend Sir Christopher Sir Christopher as Non-Executive Chairman with effect from the
Gent’s appointment as Chairman for a further five years with end of the AGM on 7 May 2015.
effect from 1 January 2011, subject to annual re-election Sir Philip met the independence requirements set out in the UK
by shareholders. At that time, the Board was about to enter a Corporate Governance Code on appointment and will be able
programme of progressive refreshment and this ensured continuity to dedicate the requisite time to the role.
of Board leadership during a period when several Non-Executive
Directors were approaching the end of their tenure. It also New Non-Executive Director appointment
reflected the Committee’s desire to plan and shape the During 2014, in addition to the search for a successor
composition and balance of the Board over the longer term. to Sir Christopher as Chairman, the Committee searched
for another Non-Executive Director as part of the phased
In 2012, the Committee commenced its search for Sir refreshment of the Board.
Christopher’s successor with the intention that he would step
down as Chairman by the end of 2015. During the search process, broad selection criteria were used
which focused on achieving a balance between Continental
At the start of the search process, the Committee drew up a European, UK, US and Emerging Markets experience, and having
job specification for the role of Chairman. The job specification individuals with expertise and capabilities developed in various
was drafted to emphasise the importance that the Board and sectors and specialities.
Committee placed on the Chairman in overseeing the company’s
strategy at a time when the industry continued to evolve at pace.
92 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
MWM, Egon Zehnder and Korn Ferry were engaged to conduct The Committee is responsible for developing measurable
the search and dossiers of potential Non-Executive appointees objectives to support the implementation of the Board’s diversity
were considered by the Committee. Egon Zehnder and Korn Ferry policy, including gender, and monitoring progress towards the
only provide recruitment consultancy services to the Committee. achievement of these objectives. In terms of gender diversity,
Candidates were shortlisted for interview on merit, after assessing we exceeded the target of at least 25% by 2013 that we had set
their relevant qualifications and time commitments. ourselves in May 2011 and we are pleased to have maintained
female Board level representation at over 30%. We will seek to
After interviewing selected candidates, the Committee
at least maintain this level going forward.
was pleased to recommend to the Board Urs Rohner as a
Non-Executive Director. He was appointed to the Board with We also have a good representation of women in management
effect from 1 January 2015. The Board considered that his positions which is illustrated on page 45 as part of the gender
broad business background and extensive senior-level experience diversity of GSK’s global workforce. We will continue to support
at multinational companies achieved the aim of appointing a efforts to further increase the pipeline of women into senior
candidate who has experience of running a highly regulated positions within GSK. We also support the engagement of
organisation with an understanding of investor perspectives, executive search firms such as MWM, Egon Zehnder and Korn
and who would bring fresh insights to the Board’s deliberations. Ferry, who have signed up to the Voluntary Code of Conduct
on gender diversity and best practice.
Board and Committee changes
The refreshment of the Board has resulted in orderly changes to CET changes
the composition of the Board and its Committees as set out below. In terms of Executive succession planning, the Committee also
recommended the appointment of Nick Hirons to the CET in
Sir Robert Wilson did not stand for re-election at the AGM in May
September 2014 as Senior Vice President, Global Ethics and
after ten years of service. Sir Christopher Gent, Tom de Swaan
Compliance. Nick joined the company in 1994 as an Internal
and Jing Ulrich will not stand for re-election at the AGM in 2015
Auditor in the UK, taking on roles of increasing seniority until he
after ten, nine and three years of service respectively. Given the
was appointed Head of Audit & Assurance in 2009. In June
current stage of the Board refreshment programme and that three
2013, he took up a role in China, where he was responsible for
Board members will have stepped down from the Board by May
establishing a new governance model for our China business.
2015, Sir Deryck Maughan has agreed to stand for re-election by
shareholders for one further year before stepping down from the As part of ensuring more focused management of the company’s
Board at the 2016 AGM. He will provide continuity and balance Consumer Healthcare, Vaccines, and Pharmaceuticals businesses
to the composition of the Board, given his significant knowledge in advance of the completion of the three-part transaction with
of, and experience in, GSK’s business affairs. Sir Deryck has Novartis, the Nominations Committee recommended:
brought his own style to the role of SID and has discharged the
• in April 2014, that Emma Walmsley, who is currently President,
responsibilities of the role with great diligence. He will also play
Consumer Healthcare, will be appointed CEO of the Consumer an important part in the smooth transition between Sir Christopher
Healthcare Joint Venture business and be a member of its Board
and Sir Philip during 2015.
if the transaction is successfully completed;
The Board has confirmed that Sir Deryck continues to demonstrate
• the appointments in October 2014 of Dr Moncef Slaoui and
the characteristics of independence in carrying out his role on the
Abbas Hussain as Chairman, Global Vaccines and Head of
Board. A search for a replacement SID to succeed him is currently
Global Pharmaceuticals respectively. Abbas subsequently
being conducted by the Committee.
assumed responsibility for US Pharmaceuticals as part of his
Sir Philip succeeded Sir Christopher as Chairman of the role in February 2015. Moncef was previously Chairman, Global
Nominations Committee on 27 January 2015. Sir Christopher R&D & Vaccines, and he continues to provide scientific counsel
will continue to serve as a member of the Committee for the on pharmaceuticals R&D activities to the CEO and Board.
remainder of his tenure on the Board. A successor to Tom de Abbas was previously President, Europe, Japan and EMAP; and
Swaan as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, when he
• following the announcement by Deirdre Connelly, President
retires from the Board at the 2015 AGM, will be appointed from
North America Pharmaceuticals, in February 2015 of her
the membership of the Remuneration Committee.
intention to retire from GSK and given the recent change to
Other appointments recommended by the Committee include Global Pharmaceuticals, that her role will not be replaced on
Lynn Elsenhans joining the Audit & Risk Committee with effect the CET.
from 1 January 2014 and the Nominations Committee with effect
Committee evaluation
from 27 January 2015. Judy Lewent was also appointed to the
The Committee’s annual evaluation was externally facilitated by
Nominations Committee with effect from 8 May 2014, the day
Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom Review Limited and concluded that
after Sir Robert Wilson stepped down from the Committee.
the Committee continued to operate effectively. A key finding
Board diversity from Dr Long’s evaluation concerned the tenure of the Committee
We are committed to the diversity of our boardroom and we are members. Committee accountability is safeguarded when the
similarly committed to equal opportunities for all our employees majority of the Committee members will serve alongside the new
at all levels of the organisation. The diversity and inclusiveness Board appointees in the medium to long term. The Committee
of our workforce are promoted throughout GSK. agreed that it should continue to refresh its membership so that
there was a suitable balance of longer serving Directors and more
A key requirement of an effective board is that it comprises
recent appointees to support the new Committee Chairman in
a range and balance of skills, experience, knowledge, gender
shaping the Board.
and independence, with individuals that are prepared to challenge
each other and work as a team. This needs to be backed by a
diversity of personal attributes, including character, intellect,
sound judgement, honesty and courage.
GSK Annual Report 2014 93Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Corporate governance
continued
Main responsibilities
Corporate Responsibility Committee Report
The main responsibilities of the Corporate Responsibility
Committee are set out below.
The Committee has a rolling agenda and receives reports from
members of the CET and senior managers to ensure that progress
in meeting GSK’s Corporate Responsibility commitments, which
Sir Christopher Gent were set in 2012, is reviewed on an annual basis. These
Corporate Responsibility commitments are grouped across four areas:
Committee Chairman
• Health for all: innovating to address currently unmet health
needs; improving access to our products, irrespective of where
Membership people live or their ability to pay; and controlling or eliminating
The membership of the Corporate Responsibility Committee (the diseases affecting the world’s most vulnerable people
Committee), together with appointment dates and attendance at
• Our behaviour: putting the interests of patients and consumers
meetings, is set out below:
first, driven by our values in everything we do and backed by
robust policies and strong compliance processes
Attendance at
full meetings • Our people: enabling our people to thrive and develop as
Members Committee member since during 2014
individuals to deliver our mission
Sir Christopher Gent
(Chairman from • Our planet: growing our business while reducing our
1 January 2005) 9 December 2004 5/5 environmental impact across the value chain.
Dr Stephanie Burns 6 December 2007 5/5 The Committee also reviews and approves the Responsible
Lynn Elsenhans 1 October 2012 5/5 Business Supplement which is available for reference on
Dr Daniel Podolsky 1 July 2006 5/5 www.gsk.com/responsibility.
Hans Wijers 10 October 2013 4/5
Work of the Committee during 2014
Sir Robert Wilson* 1 May 2013 2/2 During 2014, the Committee focused its attention on several
issues including:
* Sir Robert Wilson retired from the Board on 7 May 2014.
Hans Wijers was unable to attend one Committee meeting due to CR Focus area Committee’s area of focus during 2014
a prior business commitment.
Health for all • F lexible and open R&D approach for diseases
Other attendees at Committee meetings may include: of the developing world and other areas of
great medical need, such as antibiotics and
Regular Attends dementia
Attendee attendee as required • S trategic partnerships to address access and
Chief Executive Officer ✓ child mortality e.g. Save the Children and
Chairman, Global Vaccines ✓ Neglected Tropical Diseases
• S trategic approach to drive access to
General Counsel ✓
medicines in Africa, including pricing, capacity
Head of Governance, Ethics & Assurance ✓ building and health system strengthening
Head of Global Communications and • V accines strategy to support global public
Government Affairs ✓ health priorities, including pricing models,
Head of Global Corporate Responsibility ✓ Malaria vaccine and Ebola response
Company Secretary – Secretary to the Committee ✓ • V iiV Healthcare Ltd’s strategy to drive
innovation and access to HIV medicines
Other Executives ✓
Independent external corporate
Our behaviour • G lobal incentive compensation programme
responsibility adviser ✓ and selling competency model
• C hanges to how GSK engages with
Independent external corporate responsibility adviser healthcare professionals
To augment GSK’s engagement with stakeholder opinion, in May • F urther embedding values-based decision
2013, Sophia Tickell was appointed as an independent external making in the organisation, including training
adviser to the Committee, a position that she had held previously and compliance
from March 2009 to July 2011. Ms Tickell has extensive experience • P rogress on addressing human rights
in the pharmaceuticals industry in improving health systems • C onduct and public disclosure of clinical
productivity, sustainability in energy supply and distribution, research, transparency of detailed data behind
climate change policy and short-termism in financial markets. trial results and patient safety
• R eplacement, refinement and reduction in use
She is the co-founder and a Director of Meteos, from where she of animals in research and development
directs the Pharma Futures Series, which aims to align better
societal and shareholder value. She holds a number of other Our people • O rganisational change and employee relations
board and advisory roles. • I nclusion and diversity
• L eadership, development and approach to
Ms Tickell attended meetings of the Committee and provided
performance management
independent advice and guidance on corporate responsibility
• E mployee health, safety and wellbeing
matters to both the Chairman and the CEO.
• V olunteering
Our planet • E nvironmental performance across carbon,
water and waste impacts
94 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Committee evaluation
The Committee’s annual evaluation was externally facilitated by Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom Review Limited and concluded that the
Committee continued to operate effectively. As part of the review, it was noted that the Nominations Committee would identify and
recommend a new Committee Chairman to succeed Sir Christopher Gent when he retires from the Board at the end of the AGM
on 7 May 2015.
Directors’ Report
For the purposes of the UK Companies Act 2006, the Directors’ Report of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year ended 31 December 2014
comprises pages 71 to 95 of the Corporate Governance Report, the Directors’ Responsibility Statements on pages 130 and 211 and
pages 232 to 248 of Investor Information. As it is entitled to do by the Companies Act 2006, the Board has chosen to set out in the
Strategic report those matters required to be disclosed in the Directors’ Report which it considers to be of strategic importance to the
company, as follows:
• risk management objectives and policies (pages 16, 17 and 70)
• likely future developments of the company (throughout the Strategic report)
• research and development activities (pages 24 to 34)
• inclusion and diversity (pages 44 to 45)
• provision of information to, and consultation with, employees (pages 44 to 45)
• carbon emissions (pages 46 to 47)
In addition, the disclosures relating to the appointment or replacement of Directors and Directors’ Powers at year end as required by
the UK Corporate Governance Code are disclosed on page 246. The information in the following table is also incorporated into the
Directors’ Report:
Location of details in 2014 Annual Report
Interest capitalised Financial statements, Notes 17 and 19
Publication of unaudited financial information Group financial review, page 60
Details of any long-term incentive schemes Remuneration report
Waiver of emoluments by a Director Not applicable
Waiver of future emoluments by a Director Not applicable
Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash Not applicable
Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash by any unlisted major subsidiary Not applicable
undertaking
Parent company participation in a placing by a listed subsidiary Not applicable
Contracts of significance Shareholder information
Provision of services by a controlling shareholder Not applicable
Shareholder waiver of dividends Financial statements, Notes 15 and 42
Shareholder waiver of future dividends Financial statements, Notes 15 and 42
Agreements with controlling shareholders Not applicable
The Directors’ Report has been drawn up and presented in accordance with and in reliance upon English company law and the liabilities
of the Directors in connection with that report shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law. The Directors’
Report was approved by a duly authorised Committee of the Board of Directors on 26 February 2015 and signed on its behalf by:
Sir Christopher Gent
Chairman
26 February 2015
GSK Annual Report 2014 95Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Remuneration report
Chairman’s annual statement
• Vesting of the 2012 PSP and DABP (Deferred Annual Bonus Plan)
matching awards was impacted by TSR and adjusted free cash
flow performance being below the thresholds set. On a positive
note, key investments for the long-term success of the Group were
not sacrificed. The overall vesting level of 13.5% was achieved by
above threshold performance against the R&D new products and
business diversification performance measures.
I am pleased to report that the executives continue to align their
personal interests with those of shareholders. Sir Andrew has
elected again this year to defer the maximum permitted amount
under our DABP. His share ownership requirement (SOR) is to hold
four times his base salary in GSK shares. He currently holds over
11 times his base salary in GSK shares, i.e. between two and three
times the level required.
Further details of 2014 remuneration for executives and related
Dear Shareholder performance under the annual bonus and long-term incentives
(PSP awards and DABP matching awards) are given on pages
As the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee (the Committee), 99 to 103.
I am pleased to present our Remuneration report for 2014.
Executive remuneration for 2015
Following a year of change in 2013 with the new remuneration The key changes to the structure of 2015 remuneration were
reporting regulations, 2014 has been a year of stability. During the disclosed in last year’s report. For the 2015 awards, the time
year, the Committee has operated our binding remuneration policy, horizon for PSP awards to Executive Directors has been revised
which received overwhelming shareholder support at our 2014 with the extension of the vesting period to five years. The awards
AGM. For ease of reference for shareholders, we have included a continue to be subject to a three-year performance period. As we
copy of our approved Remuneration policy report at the end of this have already implemented malus and clawback provisions in prior
document. I can confirm that the structure of our incentive plans years, no further changes are required in this regard to comply with
remains unchanged, with the exception of the extension of the the most recent updates to the UK Corporate Governance Code.
time horizons of the PSP awards granted to Executive Directors
Agenda for 2015
in 2015, which now include a three year performance period and
a five year vesting period. No other structural changes are proposed for this year. The
Committee decided that salary levels for Executive Directors would
At our AGM on 7 May 2015, shareholders will be asked to show not be increased for 2015, although management have awarded a
their support for our annual report on remuneration for 2014. 1% average increase for employees in the UK and USA below the
Remuneration outcomes in respect of 2014 level of the CET.
From a financial perspective, total turnover for 2014 was down The three-part transaction with Novartis is expected to be
3% to £23 billion, with challenging trading conditions faced by the completed in the week commencing 2 March 2015 and will have
Group, particularly in the US primary care market. Core operating wide-ranging implications for executive remuneration at GSK. It is
profit and core Group PBIT were down 6% at CER. Cost savings anticipated that our adjusted free cash flow and R&D new product
and financial efficiencies offset a substantial proportion of the targets for the 2013, 2014 and 2015 PSP and DABP awards, and
impact from the top line pressures during the year and helped our business diversification target for the 2013 award, will need
deliver the core EPS (down 1%), while also protecting investments to be revised to reflect the nature of the business after the
in the business. The dividend for the year was increased by 3%. transaction. The Committee is aware of the potential challenges
of making such adjustments and will appropriately engage with
Although 2014 has been a challenging year for GSK, there have
shareholders regarding each of these points in due course.
been notable examples where the company has delivered positive
outcomes, including great progress on key product launches and During 2015, the Committee will keep executive remuneration
improved formulary positioning, as well as the continued progress arrangements under review to ensure that they continue to meet
in our respiratory pipeline. Our newly launched products, including the needs of the business. The Committee is proud of its track
Tivicay and Triumeq from ViiV Healthcare, Tafinlar, Mekinist and record of listening to the views of our shareholders. We will
Tanzeum have contributed £1.5 billion in turnover, up 84% CER, continue to engage with shareholders on executive remuneration
and now represent 8% of Pharmaceutical and Vaccine sales. matters to ensure that our remuneration policy is operated in their
Furthermore, in responding to the Ebola crisis, GSK has been long-term interests. During 2014, we held our annual meeting with
a clear leader in developing a vaccine. All of this has happened GSK’s largest investors to listen to their views and feedback on
alongside our efforts to complete the transformational three-part corporate governance matters, and we will once again take this
transaction with Novartis. approach later in 2015.
Against this background, the key decisions made in respect of Finally, I will be retiring as a Non-Executive Director of GSK at the
performance in 2014 by the Committee are highlighted below: 2015 AGM and consequently I am presenting my final report as
Chairman of the Committee. A successor will be appointed from
• The bonus outcome for the Executive Directors was determined
the Committee to take the work forward. I would like to take this
by Group Operating Profit and Group PBIT, which achieved
opportunity to thank both my fellow Committee members and
performance between threshold and target. This delivered
shareholders for their support during my tenure as Chairman of
significantly reduced bonus payments for the CEO and CFO,
the Committee.
compared with those of 2013. Vaccines performance and
the R&D value driver delivered on-target performance, which We look forward to receiving your support for our annual report
also resulted in a reduced bonus payment for Dr Slaoui when on remuneration at our AGM. As always, we would also welcome
compared to the strong performance in 2013. Further details all shareholders’ feedback on this report.
of these bonus awards are given on pages 99 to 101.
Tom de Swaan
Remuneration Committee Chairman
26 February 2015
96 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Annual report on remuneration
Total remuneration for 2014 (audited)
Value earned
Annual from long-term Total
Salary Benefits + + Pension =
bonus incentive remuneration
awards
A. Fixed pay B. Pay for performance C. Pension
The total remuneration for 2014 for each Executive Director is set out in the table below:
Dr Moncef Slaoui,
Sir Andrew Witty, Simon Dingemans, Chairman,
CEO CFO Global Vaccines
2014 % of 2013 % of 2014 % of 2013 % of 2014 % of 2013 % of
£000 total £000 total £000 total £000 total $000 total $000 total
A. Fixed pay
Salary 1,087 1,059 718 699 1,212 1,180
Benefits(1) 70 67 79 65 571 747
Total fixed pay 1,157 30% 1,126 16% 797 43% 764 23% 1,783 41% 1,927 23%
B. Pay for performance
Annual bonus – including the
amount deferred 917 1,875 446 886 1,108 1,973
Value earned from LTI awards(2):
Matching awards under Deferred
Annual Bonus Plan 111 249 65 n/a 138 485
Performance Share Plan 1,035 3,250 398 1,502 939 3,763
Total value earned from LTI awards 1,146 3,499 463 1,502 1,077 4,248
Total pay for performance 2,063 53% 5,374 74% 909 49% 2,388 73% 2,185 51% 6,221 74%
C. Pension(3) 671 17% 707 10% 144 8% 140 4% 365 8% 266 3%
Total remuneration(4) 3,891 7,207 1,850 3,292 4,333 8,414
Notes:
(1) Certain expenses incurred in the normal course of business are considered to be taxable benefits by UK HM Revenue & Customs and as such the
table above includes these figures for 2013 and 2014. Further details are provided on page 98.
(2) An analysis of the value of LTIs earned by Sir Andrew Witty, Simon Dingemans and Dr Moncef Slaoui is set out on pages 113 to 116.
(3) F ull details of the pension contributions and pensions accrued to date for the Executive Directors are given on page 106.
(4) The Committee may in specific circumstances, and in line with stated principles, apply clawback/malus, as it determines appropriate. Following due
consideration by the Committee, there has been no reduction of outstanding awards or vesting levels (malus) applied during 2014 in respect of any
of the Executive Directors.
The following sections provide details of each element of ‘Total remuneration’, including how we implemented the remuneration policy
approved by shareholders in May 2014 and how it will be applied in 2015.
GSK Annual Report 2014 97Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Annual report on remuneration
continued
Comparator groups for pay and performance Salary
The Committee uses two primary pay comparator groups when For 2015, the average salary increase budget for employees
considering executive pay: below the level of the CET will be approximately 1.0% in both
the UK and USA.
UK cross-industry Global pharmaceutical
comparator group comparator group The Committee decided not to increase the Executive Directors’
salaries for 2015.
Anglo American France Sanofi
AstraZeneca Switzerland Novartis The table below sets out the base salaries of the Executive
BG Group Roche Holdings Directors over the last two years and for 2015.
BHP Billiton UK AstraZeneca
Base salary
BP USA AbbVie* %
change 2015 2014 2013
British American Tobacco Amgen*
Sir Andrew Witty 0% £1,087,300 £1,087,300 £1,060,800
Diageo Bristol-Myers Squibb
Simon Dingemans 0% £717,700 £717,700 £700,150
Reckitt Benckiser Eli Lilly
Dr Moncef Slaoui 0% $1,211,800 $1,211,800 $1,182,200
Rio Tinto Johnson & Johnson
Royal Dutch Shell Merck & Co
Benefits (audited)
SAB Miller Pfizer
The following table shows a breakdown of the grossed up cash
Tesco
value of the benefits received by the Executive Directors in 2014
Unilever
and 2013.
Vodafone
Sir Andrew Simon Dr Moncef * Amgen and AbbVie are included for remuneration benchmarking, but
Witty Dingemans Slaoui
are not included in the TSR comparator group.
2014 benefits £000 £000 $000
The global pharmaceutical comparator group is also used as the
basis for the TSR comparator group which features in our long-term Employee benefits(1) 20 24 136
incentive awards. Travel(2) 42 42 105
Other benefits(3) 8 13 330
The primary pay comparator group for each of the Executive
Total 2014 benefits 70 79 571
Directors is shown in the table below:
2013 benefits £000 £000 $000
Primary pay comparator group
Employee benefits(1) 17 22 157
UK Global
Director cross-industry pharmaceutical Travel(2) 36 30 82
Sir Andrew Witty ✓ Other benefits(3) 14 13 7
Simon Dingemans ✓ International assignment(4) – – 501
Dr Moncef Slaoui ✓ Total 2013 benefits 67 65 747
When reviewing the CEO’s remuneration, the Committee also (1) Employee benefits include healthcare, car allowance, personal financial
references pay for a group of leading European companies whose advice and life assurance/death in service.
selection is based on their size and complexity. (2) Travel expenses include car, travel and family, spouse and partner costs
associated with accompanying the director on GSK business, which
Summary of total package competitive positioning for the CEO are deemed to be taxable benefits on the individual.
(3) Other benefits comprise expenses incurred in the ordinary course of
Total remuneration benchmarking (£m) business, which are deemed to be taxable benefits on the individual and,
as such, have been included in the table above. For Dr. Slaoui in 2014,
12 this includes UK accommodation of $326,610.
(4) Dr Moncef Slaoui was seconded to the UK in November 2010 in order
to enable him to be closer to the Vaccines business as he assumed
operational responsibility for that part of the Group. The secondment
10
ended on 31 December 2013. In line with other senior GSK expatriates,
he received appropriate assignment expenses, including
accommodation, location allowance, relocation specific financial advice
8 and tax equalisation.
No significant changes to the provision of benefits are proposed
for 2015. For further details, please refer to the Policy report (see
6
page 119).
4
UK cross-industry Global pharmaceutical European cross-industry
group group group
Lower quartile to median Median to upper quartile Current position
Benchmarking includes salary and the expected value of incentives based on the
Committee’s agreed benchmarking methodology.
98 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Pay for performance (audited)
Annual bonus
The majority of the annual bonus opportunity is based on a formal The IPM is set by the Committee taking into account
review of performance against stretching financial targets. This performance against individual objectives. The multiplier may
outcome is then adjusted to reflect individual performance by be set between 0% and 150%. Generally, in a year when an
applying an individual performance multiplier (IPM). Executive Director has performed strongly against all their
objectives, it would be expected that they would receive an
For the financial measures, the bonus threshold is 90% of target,
IPM towards the top of that range.
with the maximum being payable for achievement of 110% of
target. The bonus threshold of 90% reflects the stretching nature
of the bonus targets.
2014 performance against targets
For 2014, the annual bonus was based on the following financial performance measures and weightings.
Core Group operating
Core Group PBIT Vaccines performance R&D value driver
profit
Sir Andrew Witty 75% 25% – –
Simon Dingemans 75% 25% – –
Dr Moncef Slaoui – 25% 25% 50%
As the actual financial targets are linked to the company’s financial and strategic plan, the Committee believes that the targets remain
commercially sensitive. The specific 2014 targets are therefore not disclosed. However, the following illustrates the performance
achieved in the year against the target for each of the four measures. Individual performance multipliers set for 2014 were also
substantially lower than 2013.
Performance Performance Performance Performance
Target
Performance measure below between threshold between target and above range
performance
threshold and target range maximum maximum
Core Group operating profit
Core Group PBIT
Vaccines performance
R&D value driver
Financial performance Core Group operating profit and core Group profit before interest and tax
In the face of some major headwinds impacting the Group, the performance in 2014, both in terms of core
Group operating profit and core Group profit before interest and tax was resilient. Strong sales performances
were delivered in several important parts of the business, including Emerging Markets (+5%), Japan (+1%),
ViiV Healthcare (+15%) and oncology (+33%). Europe, helped by the benefits of refocusing the commercial
organisation, delivered another relatively stable performance despite ongoing government and competitive
pressures. In addition, a tight rein on costs, added to the delivery of incremental savings in 2014 from
restructuring and structural initiatives (approximately £400 million), helped to offset a substantial portion of
the impact from top line pressures while, importantly, protecting key investments required for the long-term
success of the Group.
Vaccines performance and R&D value drivers
Targets for the year around pipeline growth and value were achieved.
This reflects four important approvals in 2014 (Incruse Ellipta and Arnuity Ellipta in respiratory, Triumeq in HIV
and Tanzeum for Type 2 diabetes), two very important regulatory filings (Breo Ellipta for use in asthma in the
US and mepolizumab, our first-in-class anti-IL5 treatment, for severe asthma, filed in the US and Europe) and
the start of three major phase III programmes (our triple combination therapy for COPD, mepolizumab for
COPD and losmapimod for Acute coronary syndrome). Global sales of vaccines were down 1% as several
strong performances (Boostrix, Rotarix, Synflorix, Infanrix/Pediarix) offset most of the impact of the ongoing
suspension of HPV vaccines in Japan, the return to the market of competing vaccines and supply constraints.
The business also delivered exciting phase III data for the Group’s vaccine to prevent shingles and achieved
major milestones in the programmes for malaria and Ebola.
GSK Annual Report 2014 99Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Annual report on remuneration
continued
The table below sets out the matters which the Committee considered in respect of the individual objectives set for each Executive
Director.
Personal performance
Sir Andrew Witty Sir Andrew’s bonus reflects financial performance, developments that offer the opportunity to positively re-shape
the Group’s business and management’s response to issues and challenges faced in the course of the year.
These included:
The Group’s financial performance and response to challenging trading conditions in the year, which included greater
than expected contracting and competitive pressures to the US respiratory business, the launch of Lovaza generics
and supply disruptions in Consumer Healthcare. Sales were down 3% to £23 billion and core EPS was down 1%
CER to 95.4p, helped by delivery of cost and financial efficiencies.
Initiation of the innovative proposed three-part transaction with Novartis, which accelerates the Group’s strategy
to re-shape its business and provide a better balance and broader range of growth drivers; synergy and operating
leverage opportunities; further financial efficiencies and increased balance and sustainability of cash flow.
The commencement of a new restructuring programme to simplify GSK’s global Pharmaceuticals Business.
Approximately £1 billion of annual cost savings are expected to be delivered over the next 3 years. £400 million of
net incremental cost savings were delivered from existing restructuring programmes and structural savings in 2014.
The establishment of a new executive management structure to simplify the organisation and ensure focus across
three core global businesses (Global Pharmaceuticals, Consumer Healthcare and Vaccines). The Group also
continued to restructure its ways of working, with global roll-out of measures to modernise GSK’s commercial model
and interaction with healthcare professionals.
Sustained delivery in R&D, with 16 approvals and 11 filings for key products in major markets in 2014, including
continued build of new products in core pharmaceutical areas of respiratory and HIV. Sustained progress of assets
in the advanced pipeline (7 advanced assets viewed with high potential: a closed triple combination in respiratory,
Iosmapimod for acute coronary syndrome, mepolizumab for severe asthma and COPD, sirukumab for RA, a vaccine
to prevent shingles, cabotegravir for HIV and ‘863 for anaemia).
Further strengthening of GSK’s business and contribution to public health in middle-income/developing countries.
During the year, the company filed its candidate vaccine to prevent malaria, developed a candidate Ebola vaccine to
help respond to the crisis in West Africa, launched a new long-term Africa strategy of investment and launched new
pricing approaches for vaccines. GSK was placed 1st in the Access to Medicine Index for the fourth consecutive year.
The Group’s response to the China investigation, both in reform of its subsidiary business and implementation of
steps to further strengthen ABAC monitoring, controls and procedures in other markets. The impact of the
investigation was also considered in the evaluation of Sir Andrew’s remuneration in 2013.
Overall evaluation of Sir Andrew’s performance and leadership of the Group in 2014 led the Committee to award a
bonus of £917,000 for 2014. This represents a reduction of £958,000 (51%) compared to the bonus award for
2013 (£1,875,000).
Simon Dingemans GSK delivered core EPS down 1%, in line with the revised financial guidance provided in July 2014, while also
protecting ongoing investments in new launches, additional manufacturing capabilities and capacity for the long-term
success of the Group. Simon continued to drive operating and financial efficiencies and helped lead the planning for
the new restructuring programme that is expected to deliver £1 billion of annual savings by 2017 and 50% in 2016.
GSK was able to return £4.1 billion of cash to shareholders in 2014.
The roll out of GSK’s ERP system and the establishment of Core Business Services to bring together support
functions in order to streamline and standardise functional support to the business has continued at a significant pace.
Dr Moncef Slaoui Dr Moncef Slaoui delivered a year of good performance for R&D. The number of candidate selections, commit to
medicines development and files approved were in line with or ahead of R&D’s fill and flow targets. First time in
human submissions were slightly below target. New product sales were encouraging. Dr Slaoui transitioned
leadership of R&D to Dr Vallance following a planned period of development. Under Dr Slaoui’s leadership, the
Vaccines business delivered strong performance in 2014 in line with plan.
100 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
The following table shows actual bonuses earned compared to opportunity for 2014 and 2013.
Bonus opportunity Total bonus Bonus paid
Base salary Target Maximum 2014 2013 2014 2013
£/$000 (% of salary) (% of salary) (% of salary) (% of salary) £/$000 £/$000
Sir Andrew Witty £1,087 125% 200% 84% 177% £917 £1,875
Simon Dingemans £718 80% 180% 62% 127% £446 £886
Dr Moncef Slaoui $1,212 85% 200% 91% 167% $1,108 $1,973
2015 operation of annual bonus plan
In line with the policy that performance measures should be based on relevant business unit performance and given the change to
Dr Moncef Slaoui’s responsibilities during 2014, for 2015 Dr Slaoui’s financial performance measures and weightings will be as follows:
Core Group operating
Core Group PBIT Vaccines performance R&D value driver profit
Dr Moncef Slaoui – 2015 – 25% 75% –
No other changes are proposed to the operation of the annual bonus plan for 2015. Inevitably, targets linked directly to the financial and
strategic plan are commercially sensitive and the Committee does not consider it appropriate to disclose annual bonus targets during
the year. However, details of performance achieved will be disclosed in the 2015 Annual Report.
Long-term incentive plans (audited)
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan and matching awards Performance Share Plan
The levels of participation in respect of 2013 and 2014 for the The table below shows Performance Share Plan (PSP) award
Executive Directors are shown in the table below, together with the levels for 2014 and 2015 for each Executive Director:
maximum matching awards granted in 2015 in respect of the
deferrals of 2014 bonuses.
% of total bonus 2015 2014
2015 deferred into Award level Award level
Matching shares or ADS 2015 as % of as % of
award 2014 2013 Award base salary base salary
Sir Andrew Witty 30,172 shares 50% 50% Sir Andrew Witty 429,338 shares 600% 600%
Simon Dingemans 14,680 shares 50% 35% Simon Dingemans 188,930 shares 400% 400%
Dr Moncef Slaoui 11,973 ADS 50% 50% Dr Moncef Slaoui 131,005 ADS 500% 500%
Vesting of matching awards with a performance period ended 25% of Sir Andrew Witty’s 2014 PSP award is subject to a further
31 December 2014 is shown on pages 113 and 114. two-year vesting period (five years in total). The PSP awards made
to all of the Executive Directors in 2015 are subject to a three year
Performance conditions for matching awards made in 2015 under
performance period and a five year vesting period.
the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan (DABP) are the same as for the
Performance Share Plan and are described on page 104. PSP and DABP matching awards are both subject to performance
and continued employment.
GSK Annual Report 2014 101Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Annual report on remuneration
continued
2012 awards with a performance period ended 31 December 2014 (audited)
The Committee reviewed the performance of the PSP and DABP matching awards granted to Executive Directors against targets set
in 2012. The performance achieved in the three years to 31 December 2014 and the actual vesting levels are set out in the table below.
The Committee previously provided estimates of vesting for 2012 awards in GSK’s 2012 and 2013 Annual Reports. Those estimates
were based on performance achieved at that time and the following reflects performance achieved over the course of the whole
performance period. No discretion was exercised in determining their vesting levels.
Due to commercial sensitivities, the targets for R&D new products and business diversification were not disclosed at the time
of grant and the Committee committed to disclosing them at the time of vesting. These targets are shown in the table below.
Performance Vesting
measures
and relative % of
weighting Performance targets and performance achieved maximum % of award
Business The business diversification measure was based on an aggregate three-year revenue 27% 6.75%
diversification target for Vaccines, Consumer Healthcare, Dermatology and Emerging Markets, Asia
performance Pacific and Japan. The vesting schedule is shown below. Aggregate sales for the period
(25%) were £44.96 billion.
Target % vesting*
Maximum £51.23 billion 100%
£49.74 billion 75%
£47.26 billion 50%
Threshold £44.77 billion 25%
R&D new product The R&D new product performance measure was based on an aggregate three-year 27% 6.75%
performance revenue target for New Product sales. New Products are defined as products launched
(25%) in the performance period and the two preceding years. Therefore products launched in
the years 2010 to 2014 were included. The vesting schedule is shown below. Aggregate
sales for the period were £6.33 billion.
Target % vesting*
Maximum £7.70 billion 100%
£7.00 billion 75%
£6.65 billion 50%
Threshold £6.30 billion 25%
Adjusted free Adjusted free cash flow (AFCF) for the three years was £14.40 billion which, in line with 0% 0%
cash flow the Committee’s agreed principles, included adjustments for a number of material
performance distorting items, including legal settlements, exchange rate movements and special
(25%) pension contributions.
The AFCF vesting schedule was disclosed at the time of grant. 25% (threshold) of the
award vests for achieving AFCF of £17.30 billion, 50% for achieving £17.84 billion, 75%
for achieving £19.62 billion and 100% (maximum) for achieving £20.52 billion, with
straight-line vesting between these points.
Relative TSR GSK’s TSR rank position was 10th in the comparator group of ten pharmaceutical 0% 0%
performance companies (GSK and nine other companies). The vesting schedule and comparator
(25%) group is as set out for the 2015 awards on page 104.
Total vesting in respect of 2014 13.5%
* Straight-line vesting applies between these points.
Use of malus and clawback
The company’s policy on malus and clawback is set out in the 2014 Remuneration policy report on page 121.
The Committee has jurisdiction on malus and clawback in respect of the executives. The Recoupment Committee exercises this authority
for the wider employee base. It is comprised of senior executives with relevant oversight and appropriate experience, including the Senior
Vice President, Global Ethics and Compliance, and the Senior Vice President & General Counsel.
From 1 January 2015, in respect of each financial year, the Committee will disclose whether it (or the Recoupment Committee) has
exercised clawback or malus.
Disclosure will only be made when the matter has been the subject of public reports of misconduct, where it has been fully resolved,
where it is legally permissible to disclose and where it can be made without unduly prejudicing the company and therefore shareholders.
The Committee has determined that the release of some shares under the LTI plans may be delayed in the case of leavers, to reinforce
the implementation of the malus and clawback policy. Also, in the case of deferred bonus awards under the DABP granted to executives
who then retire or are made redundant, the vesting of those awards will normally be delayed so that they vest on their original timescales
rather than vesting earlier at the end of the year in which the termination date falls.
102 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Update on performance of ongoing awards
The Committee reviewed the performance of the PSP and DABP matching awards granted to Executive Directors in 2013 and 2014.
The following tables provide an estimate of vesting taking into account performance to date. Actual vesting levels will only be determined
based on performance over the full three-year performance periods. The indications below should therefore not be regarded as
predictions of the final vesting levels. It is also noted that in relation to some measures, adjustments may be required following the close
of the three-part transaction with Novartis, which is expected to complete during the week commencing 2 March 2015, to reflect the
impact of the transaction on the business.
2013 awards with a performance period ending 31 December 2015
Performance
measures
and relative
weighting Performance update
Business Business diversification performance for the 2013 awards measures aggregate three-year sales across Vaccines, Consumer
diversification Healthcare and Emerging Markets, Asia Pacific and Japan. Threshold performance results in 25% vesting and maximum
performance performance (114% of threshold) results in 100% vesting.
(25%) There were good sales for the two years for these business areas. Based on aggregate sales for the period and based on
performance measure definitions, vesting is currently estimated to be between 25% and 50% of the maximum for this element.
R&D new product R&D new product sales performance measures aggregate three-year sales for new products launched in the three-year
performance performance period and preceding two years, i.e. 2011-2015. Threshold performance results in 25% vesting and maximum
(25%) performance (122% of threshold) results in 100% vesting.
There were strong sales of new products in the two years. Based on aggregate sales of new products for the two years, and
based on performance measure definitions, vesting is currently estimated to be between 75% and 100%.
Adjusted free The AFCF vesting schedule for the 2013 awards was disclosed at the time of grant.
cash flow
25% (threshold) of the award vests for achieving AFCF of £14.06 billion, 50% for achieving £14.49 billion, 75% for achieving
performance
£15.94 billion and 100% (maximum) for achieving £16.66 billion, with straight-line vesting between these points.
(25%)
Based on AFCF for the two years, and on performance measure definitions, vesting is currently estimated to be below
threshold.
Relative TSR For the period 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2014, GSK’s TSR rank position was 10th in the comparator group of ten
performance pharmaceutical companies (GSK and nine other companies). The vesting schedule and comparator group are as set out for
(25%) the 2015 awards on page 104. If the ranking position remains at this level, vesting would be below threshold.
Current estimate of potential total vesting for 2013 awards Between 25% and 50% vesting
2014 awards with a performance period ending 31 December 2016
Performance
measures
and relative
weighting Performance update
R&D new product R&D new product sales performance measures aggregate three-year sales for new products launched in the three-year
performance performance period and preceding two years, i.e. 2012-16. Threshold performance results in 25% vesting and maximum
(1/3rd) performance (122% of threshold) results in 100% vesting.
There were strong sales of new products in the year. Based on aggregate sales of new products for the year, and based on
performance measure definitions, performance is currently estimated to be above the maximum vesting level (i.e. 100%) for
this element.
Adjusted free The adjusted free cash flow (AFCF) vesting schedule for the 2014 awards was disclosed at the time of grant.
cash flow
25% (threshold) of the award vests for achieving AFCF of £13.68 billion, 50% for achieving £14.10 billion, 75% for achieving
performance
£15.51 billion and 100% (maximum) for achieving £16.22 billion, with straight-line vesting between these points.
(1/3rd)
Based on AFCF for the year, and on performance measure definitions, vesting is currently estimated to be below threshold.
Relative TSR For the period 1 January 2014 to 31 January 2014, GSK’s TSR rank position was 10th in the comparator group of ten
performance pharmaceutical companies (GSK and nine other companies). The vesting schedule and comparator group are as set out for
(1/3rd) the 2015 awards on page 104. If the ranking position remains at this level, vesting would be below threshold.
Current estimate of potential total vesting for 2014 awards Between 25% and 50% vesting
GSK Annual Report 2014 103Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Annual report on remuneration
continued
Performance targets for 2015 awards
Inevitably, measures linked directly to strategy are commercially sensitive. In particular, the Committee does not consider it appropriate
to disclose the targets for R&D new product performance at grant, as it may result in competitive harm. However, the targets will be
disclosed in full in GSK’s 2017 Annual Report at the end of the performance period, together with details of the extent to which they
have been met. The Committee will provide updates on estimated vesting against the targets during the performance period. The 2015
performance targets and vesting schedules are set out in the table below.
2015 awards with a performance period ending 31 December 2017
Performance
measures
and relative
weighting Link to strategy Vesting schedule
R&D new product Recognises importance of R&D to future business Performance
performance growth. (% of threshold) % vesting
(1/3rd) Revenue target based on new product sales to Maximum 122% 100%
incentivise better R&D performance. New products Threshold 100% 25%
defined as products launched in the performance
period and the two preceding years. Therefore, for
the 2015-2017 performance period, products
launched in the years 2013-2017 will be included
in the measurement.
Aggregate three-year revenue target for 2015
awards for new product sales should reflect growth
on historic performance of new product sales.
Adjusted free Recognises importance of effective working capital The performance targets for this measure will be determined and
cash flow and cash management. communicated following the close and implementation of the
performance three-part transaction with Novartis, which is expected to complete in
(1/3rd) the week commencing 2 March 2015. It is anticipated that these will
be communicated by the end of July 2015.
Relative TSR Focuses on delivery of value to shareholders.
TSR ranking
performance Relative TSR using a comparator group
within comparator
(1/3rd) comprising GSK and nine other global group1 % vesting
pharmaceutical companies.
Maximum 1st, 2nd, 3rd 100%
Relative TSR is measured over three years, using
4th 72%
a twelve-month averaging period. TSR is measured
in local currency. Threshold2 5th 44%
Median 30%
6th to 10th 0%
1 T SR comparator group: AstraZeneca, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Eli Lilly,
GSK, Johnson & Johnson, Merck & Co, Novartis, Pfizer, Roche
Holdings and Sanofi.
2 T he vesting schedule is based on delivering 30% vesting for median
performance. In a comparator group of ten companies, median falls
between two companies. Threshold vesting is therefore for achieving
above median performance.
104 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Historical vesting for GSK’s LTIs
The following table shows historical vesting levels under the company’s long-term incentive plans (Deferred Annual Bonus Plan matching
awards, Performance Share Plan and Share Option Plan) in respect of awards made to executives since 2004.
Share
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan Performance Share Plan
Option Plan
Vesting Vesting Vesting
Vesting under under under Vesting
Total under adjusted free R&D new business Total under
Year of vesting TSR cash flow product diversification vesting EPS
grant Performance period % % % % % % %
2004 2005–2007 n/a 38.5 n/a n/a n/a 38.5 100
2006 2006–2008 n/a 0 n/a n/a n/a 0 50.7
2007 2007–2009 n/a 35 n/a n/a n/a 35 0
2008 2008–2010 n/a 35 n/a n/a n/a 35 0
2009 2009–2011/12 n/a 9 40 n/a n/a 49 0
2010 2010–2012/13 30 9 16 n/a n/a 25 n/a
2011 2011–2013 40 0 13 16 11 40 n/a
2012 2012–2014 13.5 0 0 6.75 6.75 13.5 n/a
For the DABP, the 2010 awards were subject wholly to TSR performance and from 2011 awards were subject to the same performance measures
as PSP awards.
Other all-employee share plans Payments to past directors during 2014 (audited)
The Executive Directors participate in various all-employee share There were no payments to past directors during 2014.
plans, including ShareSave and ShareReward.
Payments for loss of office during 2014 (audited)
The ShareSave Plan is an HM Revenue & Customs approved plan There were no payments for loss of office to directors during 2014.
open to all UK employees. Participants may save up to £250 a
Share ownership requirements
month from their net salaries for a fixed term of three years and at
To align the interests of executives with those of shareholders,
the end of the savings period they have the option to buy GSK
executives are required to build up and maintain significant
shares at a discount of up to 20% of the market price set at the
holdings of shares in GSK over time.
launch of each savings contract. Sir Andrew Witty and Simon
Dingemans each contribute £250 a month into the ShareSave Executives are required to continue to satisfy these shareholding
Plan. requirements for a minimum of 12 months following retirement
from the company.
The ShareReward Plan is an HM Revenue & Customs approved
plan open to all UK employees on the same terms. Participants Current share ownership requirements (SOR) are set out in the
contribute up to £125 a month from their gross salaries to table below:
purchase GSK shares and the company matches the number
of GSK shares bought each month under this arrangement. Share ownership requirement
Sir Andrew Witty and Simon Dingemans each contribute £125 CEO 4x base salary
a month to buy shares under the ShareReward Plan. Other Executive Directors 3x base salary
Other CET members 2x base salary
Dilution limits
All awards are made under plans which incorporate dilution
Executive Directors’ shareholdings for the purpose of SOR as at
limits consistent with the guidelines provided by the Investment
19 February 2015 and achievement of SOR, based upon an average
Association (formerly provided by the Association of British
share price for the 90 working days preceding that date, were as set
Insurers). These limits are 10% in any rolling ten year period for
out in the following table (audited):
all plans and 5% in any rolling ten year period for executive share
plans. Estimated dilution from existing awards made over the last Holdings for SOR
ten years up to 31 December 2014 is as follows: purposes as at
Increase in Achievement
19 February 31 December shareholding of SOR
All GSK employee share plans Executive share plans 2015 2013 % %
Sir Andrew Witty 846,470 566,142 50% 279%
Simon Dingemans 187,722 84,872 121% 125%
10 Dr Moncef Slaoui 488,978 383,079 28% 300%
10%
08 Any outstanding share awards still subject to performance criteria
or continued employment are not included in the shareholdings for
06 the purpose of SOR.
04 5%
02 2.81% 2.54%
0
Actual Limit
GSK Annual Report 2014 105Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Annual report on remuneration
continued
Pension (audited)
The arrangements for the current Executive Directors are set out in the table below.
Pension arrangements
Sir Andrew Witty Sir Andrew Witty is a member of the Glaxo Wellcome defined benefit pension plan with an accrual rate of 1/30th of final
pensionable salary. This plan has been closed to new entrants since 2001. The section of the plan that Sir Andrew is a member
of provides for a normal retirement age of 60 and a maximum pension value of 2/3rds of pensionable salary. Since 1 April 2013,
pensionable earnings increases are limited to 2% per annum for all members, including Sir Andrew.
Simon Dingemans Simon Dingemans is not a member of any GSK pension plan for pension contributions and instead receives a cash payment
in lieu of pension of 20% of base salary in line with GSK’s defined contribution pension plan rates.
Simon Dingemans receives death in service and ill-health insurance that is provided as part of the pension plan. This has been
included in his employee benefits on page 98.
Dr Moncef Slaoui Dr Slaoui is a member of the US Cash Balance Pension Plan and the Supplemental Cash Balance Pension Plan which provides
for an Executive Pension Credit. GSK makes annual contributions to Dr Slaoui’s pension plans of 38% of his base salary. The
plans provide a cash sum at retirement and the fund increases at an interest rate set annually in advance, based on the 30 year
US Treasury bond rate. The plan has no entitlement to a spouse’s pension or to pension increases.
Dr Slaoui was an active member of the Belgium AG Insurance (ex-Fortis) Plan until 31 May 2006 and has been a deferred
member since. This plan is a defined benefit plan with a lump sum payable at a normal retirement age of 60. There are no
further company contributions to this plan.
Dr Slaoui is also a member of the GSK 401(k) savings scheme open to all US employees and the Executive Supplemental
Savings Plan (ESSP), a savings scheme open to executives to accrue benefits above US government limits imposed on the
GSK 401(k) plan. Contributions to both plans are invested in a range of funds. The combined contribution rate under the plans
is up to 6% (2% core contributions plus a match of up to 4%) of total base salary and bonus, less any bonus deferred under
the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan.
The following table shows the breakdown of the pension values set out on page 97.
Sir Andrew Witty Simon Dingemans Dr Moncef Slaoui
2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013
Pension remuneration values £000 £000 £000 £000 000 000
UK defined benefit 703 739 – – – –
US defined benefit – – – – $157 –
Belgian defined benefit – – – – €58 €101
Employer cash contributions – – 144 140 $131 $127
Member contributions to defined
benefit plans (32) (32) – – – –
Total pension remuneration value 671 707 144 140 $365 $266
a) The pension remuneration figures have been calculated in accordance with the methodology set out in the Remuneration Regulations.
In calculating the defined benefit pension values for 2014, the difference between the accrued pension as at 31 December 2014 and the
accrued pension as at 31 December 2013 increased by inflation (2.7% for UK defined benefit, 1.3% for US defined benefit,1.3% for Belgium
defined benefit) has been multiplied by 20. Where this results in a negative value, this has been deemed to be zero. In calculating total values,
amounts have been translated from Euros into US dollars using an exchange rate of 1.33 for 2014 and 1.38 for 2013.
b) For Sir Andrew, further details regarding the 2014 pension values are set out in the table below.
Accrued pension as at Accrued pension as at Pension remuneration
Sir Andrew Witty
31 December 2014 (£ p.a.) 31 December 2013 (£ p.a.) value for 2014 (£000)
UK – Funded 70,810 68,913 1
UK – Unfunded 613,521 563,193 702
Total 684,331 632,106 703
Sir Andrew joined GSK predecessor companies in 1991 and progressed through roles of increasing seniority within GSK until he was appointed
CEO in May 2008. During this time, he built up pensionable service through the different tiers of the Glaxo Wellcome Pension Plan. His current
pension entitlement is a product of his service and progression within GSK. Please note that the 2013 figures have had a small adjustment made
to them, following a change to the inflationary measure used to value the Funded pension; the Total Pension number is unchanged.
c) For Dr Moncef Slaoui, further details regarding the 2014 pension values are set out in the table below.
Accrued pension as at Accrued pension as at Pension remuneration
Dr Moncef Slaoui
31 December 2014 (p.a.) 31 December 2013 (p.a.) value for 2014 (000)
US – Funded $12,310 $12,200 –
US – Unfunded $337,157 $325,080 $157
Belgium – Funded €88,000 €84,000 €58
US – 401(k) & ESSP – – $131
Total $365
Dr Slaoui joined GSK predecessor companies in 1988 and he progressed through a number of senior roles within GSK until he was
appointed Chairman, Research & Development in June 2006 and then Chairman, Global Vaccines in October 2014. During this time,
he has built up pensionable service in the Belgium AG Insurance (ex-Fortis) Plan and US Cash Balance Plan and Supplemental Pension Plan.
Annual employer cash contributions were made to the 401(k) plan and Executive Supplemental Savings Plan (ESSP). His current pension
entitlement is a product of his service and progression within GSK.
106 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Performance graph and table Percentage change in remuneration of CEO
The following graph sets out the performance of the company Sir Andrew Witty UK Employees
relative to the FTSE 100 index, and to the pharmaceutical 2014
performance comparator group for the six-year period to £m % change % change
31 December 2014. The graph has been prepared in accordance Salary 1,087 2.7% 2.5%
with the Remuneration Regulations and is not an indication of the Benefits 70 5.5% 0%
likely vesting of awards granted under any of the company’s Annual bonus 917 (51)% (19)%
incentive plans. These indices were selected for comparison
purposes as they reflect both the index of which GSK is a This reflects salary earned in, benefits received in and annual
constituent and the industry in which it operates. bonus earned in respect of 2014 compared with 2013. For the
wider UK employee population, the salary increase includes the
annual salary review as well as any additional changes in the year,
220 e.g. on promotion. The 0% increase for benefits for UK employees
reflects there being no change to benefits policies or levels during
200
the year. It does not reflect any changes to the level of benefits an
individual may have received as a result of a change in role, e.g. 180
promotion. The UK population was considered to be the most
relevant comparison as it most closely reflects the economic
160
environment encountered by the CEO.
140
Relative importance of pay
120
The following table sets out the percentage changes in the
100 Group’s dividends paid to shareholders, share buy-back and total
employee pay.
80
2014 2013
60 £m £m % change
31/12/08 31/12/09 31/12/10 31/12/11 31/12/12 31/1 2/13 3 1/12/1 4 Total employee pay 7,520 7,591 (2)%
GSK Total Return Dividends 3,843 3,680 4.4%
GSK Pharma Peers Total Return Index* Share buyback 238 1,504 (85)%
FTSE 100 Total Return Index
* This index comprises AstraZeneca, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Eli Lilly, The figures in the table above are as set out on pages 139 and
Johnson & Johnson, Merck & Co, Novartis, Pfizer, Roche Holdings and Sanofi. 153. Dividends declared in respect of 2014 were £3,865 million
(2013: £3,754 million), i.e. an increase of 2.95%. In determining
Remuneration table specific share repurchase levels, the company considers the
development of free cash flow during the year. Given the impact of
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 the sustained strength of Sterling on free cash flow, the company
CEO suspended its share repurchase programme during 2014.
(Sir Andrew Witty) Following the completion of the three-part Novartis transaction,
CEO single figure of GSK intends to return to shareholders £4 billion of the net
remuneration 3,891 7,207 4,386 6,807 4,562 5,790 proceeds. The company does not expect to make any ordinary
Annual bonus award(1) share repurchases in 2015.
(% of maximum) 42% 88% 44% 100% 59% 100%
Total employee pay is for all Group employees globally.
Vesting of LTI awards
(% of maximum) (7) 13.5% (6)31% (5)24% (4)70% (3)35% (2)35%
External appointments for Executive Directors
(1) 2009 and 2010 bonus amounts include amounts paid under the
Operational Efficiency Bonus in place for those years. The overall
The Board encourages Executive Directors to hold one external
maximum bonus receivable was subject to a limit of 200% of base
directorship once they have become established in their role,
salary.
to broaden their experience and development, and help increase
(2) In respect of the 2007 PSP award. Sir Andrew also had an the pool of Non-Executive Director candidates. Any outside
outstanding award over 195,500 share options, granted in 2007,
appointments are considered by the Nominations Committee
which lapsed in full. These have not been included in the total
to ensure they would not cause a conflict of interest and are
vesting percentage due to the distorting effect of aggregating
then approved by the Chairman on behalf of the Board. It is
conditional shares and share options.
the company’s policy that remuneration earned from such
(3) I n respect of the 2008 PSP award. Sir Andrew also had an appointments may be kept by the individual Executive Director.
outstanding award over 525,000 share options, granted in 2008,
which lapsed in full. These have not been included in the total During 2014, Dr Moncef Slaoui received $12,000 in relation to his
vesting percentage due to the distorting effect of aggregating membership of the Qatar Biomedical Research Institute Scientific
conditional shares and share options. Advisory Committee. He also earned a $400 honorarium for
(4) In respect of the three-year element of the 2009 PSP award. attending a board meeting of the Advisory Committee to the
Director of National Institute of Health. There are no other external
(5) I n respect of the four-year element of the 2009 PSP award, the
appointments for which he receives any remuneration. During
three-year element of the 2010 PSP award and the 2010 DABP
2014, Sir Andrew Witty and Simon Dingemans did not hold any
matching award.
external appointments for which they were remunerated.
(6) In respect of the four-year element of the 2010 PSP award, the
three-year element of the 2011 PSP award and the 2011 DABP
matching award.
(7) In respect of the 2012 PSP and DABP matching awards.
GSK Annual Report 2014 107Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Annual report on remuneration
continued
Adviser to the Committee
The Remuneration Committee
The Committee has access to external advice as required. The
Role of the Committee Committee carried out a formal review of the independent advisers
The role of the Committee is to set the company’s remuneration to the Committee in 2013. As a result of this review, the Committee
policy so that GSK is able to recruit, retain and motivate its reappointed Deloitte LLP to provide it with independent advice on
executives. The remuneration policy is regularly reviewed to executive remuneration. The Committee Chairman agrees the
ensure that it is consistent with the company’s scale and scope protocols under which Deloitte provides advice and the Committee
of operations, supports the business strategy and growth plans is satisfied that the advice they have received from Deloitte has been
and helps drive the creation of shareholder value. objective and independent.
Terms of reference Deloitte is a member of the Remuneration Consultants’ Group and,
The Committee’s full terms of reference are available on the as such, voluntarily operates under the code of conduct in relation
company’s website. The terms of reference, which are reviewed to executive remuneration consulting in the UK. The code of conduct
at least annually, were last revised in December 2014 to reflect can be found at www.remunerationconsultantsgroup.com.
best practice and corporate governance developments.
Deloitte provided independent commentary on matters under
Governance consideration by the Committee and updates on market practice
The Board considers all of the members of the Committee to be and legislative requirements. Deloitte’s fees for advice provided to
independent Non-Executive Directors in accordance with the the Committee in 2014 were £139,865. Fees were charged on a
UK Corporate Governance Code, with the exception of Sir time and materials basis. Deloitte LLP also provided other consulting,
Christopher Gent, Chairman of the company, who was considered tax and assurance services to GSK during the year. However,
independent on appointment. the Committee is satisfied that this does not compromise the
independence of the advice they have received from Deloitte.
The Committee met six times in scheduled meetings during 2014,
with each member attending as follows: Towers Watson provided additional market data to the Committee.
Commitment to shareholders
Attendance
Committee at full The Committee engages in regular dialogue with shareholders
member meetings and holds annual meetings with GSK’s largest investors to discuss
Members since during 2014
and take feedback on its remuneration policy. In particular, the
Tom de Swaan 20 May 2009 6/6
Committee discusses any significant changes to the policy or the
Dr Stephanie Burns 1 May 2013 6/6 measures used to assess performance.
Sir Christopher Gent 1 January 2007 6/6
Shareholder votes on remuneration matters
Judy Lewent 1 January 2013 6/6
Sir Deryck Maughan 1 July 2012 5/6 Votes
2014 Total votes Total votes Total votes withheld
Hans Wijers 10 October 2013 6/6 AGM cast (billion) for (%) against (%) (million)
Remuneration report 3.4 98.5 1.5 171
Sir Deryck Maughan was unable to attend one Committee meeting
Remuneration policy 3.5 97.4 2.6 100
due to prior business commitments. Urs Rohner was appointed to
the Committee on 1 January 2015, so did not attend any meetings
during 2014.
In addition to the six scheduled meetings, the Committee met on
a quorate basis on four occasions to approve the formal grant of
long-term incentive awards to employees below the Corporate
Executive Team, Deferred Investment awards, Share Value Plan
awards and materials for use at the annual investor meetings.
Committee meetings usually include a closed session, during
which only members of the Committee are present. Other
individuals may also be invited to attend Committee meetings
during the year. Executives and other Committee attendees are
not involved in any decisions, and are not present at any
discussions regarding their own remuneration.
Other attendees at Committee meetings include:
Regular Attends
Attendee attendee as required
CEO ✓
CFO ✓
Head of Human Resources ✓
Head of Reward ✓
Company Secretary – Secretary to the Committee ✓
Committee Adviser – Deloitte LLP ✓
108 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Principal activities and matters addressed during 2014
The Committee’s principal activities and matters addressed during 2014 are set out below:
Remuneration
Items specific to: Governance and
Month Overall Annual bonus LTIs other matters
January • A pprove executives’ 2014 • R eview and approve • R eview draft 2013
remuneration, including executives’ 2013 bonuses Remuneration report,
salaries of CET members • S et CEO 2014 bonus New remuneration policy
and executives’ 2014 LTI objectives statement and shareholder
award levels feedback
• R emuneration environment • P rivate session for
update Committee members only
February • R eview LTI performance • A pprove 2013
outcomes and approve Remuneration report
vesting of outstanding
2010 LTI awards (2010-
2013) and 2011 LTI
awards (2011-2013)
• A pprove LTI measures and
targets for 2014 awards
(2014-2016), and grant
awards to Executive
Directors and below
March • R emuneration environment • O verview of bonuses for • R eview shareholder
update, including employees below CET feedback
consideration of new • S et Committee’s agenda
reporting regulations for 2014
• P rivate session for
Committee members only
July • U pdate on new remuneration • R eview of LTI design • R eview AGM feedback
reporting regulations, (performance measures, and external environment
including early drafting for comparator group and time • A pprove Committee
2014 Remuneration report horizons) evaluation process
• C ET remuneration review • G rant interim 2014 LTI • R eview implications of
• R eview of Executive Directors’ awards (below executives) three-part Novartis
pay competitiveness transaction
• R eview of Chairman and • P rivate session for
Deputy Chairman fees Committee members only
September • G rant interim 2014 Share
Value Plan awards (below
executives)
October • U pdate on remuneration • U pdate on LTI vesting for • U pdate on remuneration
report disclosures 2012 awards (2012-2014) report disclosures
• A gree key messages for
annual investor meeting
November • D raft messages and
disclosures for 2014
performance pay
Annual meeting with investors
December • A nnual benchmarking and • A dministrative changes to • R eview feedback from
competitiveness review DABP investor meetings
• A pprove Executive Directors’ • R eview findings from
salaries for 2015 Committee evaluation
• C onsider CET remuneration • R eview draft 2014
changes Remuneration report
• Papers provided to the • U pdate on implications
Committee examining how of three-part Novartis
the equivalent remuneration transaction
elements operate for • C orporate Governance
employees below the CET update
• P rivate session for
Committee members only
GSK Annual Report 2014 109Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Annual report on remuneration
continued
Letters of appointment
Non-Executive Directors
The terms of engagement of the Non-Executive Directors are
Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors set out in letters of appointment which are available for inspection
The company aims to provide the Chairman and other Non- at the company’s registered office and at the AGM. For each
Executive Directors with fees that are competitive with those paid Non-Executive Director, his or her initial appointment and any
by other companies of equivalent size and complexity, subject to subsequent re-appointment are subject to election and, thereafter,
the limits contained in GSK’s Articles of Association. periodic re-election by shareholders.
Chairman’s fees The Non-Executive Directors’ letters of appointment do not
Sir Christopher Gent took up the role of Chairman in January 2005. contain provision for notice periods or for compensation if their
The Chairman’s fees were last increased in January 2013 from appointments are terminated.
£675,000 to £710,000. £250,000 (or approximately 35%) of Sir
The following table shows the date of the initial letter of
Christopher’s total fees for 2014 were delivered in shares, which
appointment of each Non-Executive Director:
are deferred until he steps down from the Board later in 2015.
Non-Executive Director Date of letter of appointment
Chairman Designate Sir Philip Hampton was appointed a Non-
Executive Director with effect from 1 January 2015. Until he takes Sir Christopher Gent 26 May 2004
on the role of Deputy Chairman on 1 April 2015, he will receive the Sir Philip Hampton 25 September 2014
standard annual cash retainer for a Non-Executive Director of Professor Sir Roy Anderson 28 September 2007
£85,000. When he becomes Deputy Chairman on 1 April 2015, Dr Stephanie Burns 12 February 2007
he will receive fees of £350,000 per annum. On his appointment Stacey Cartwright 3 March 2011
as Chairman from 1 September 2015 at the latest, he will receive Lynn Elsenhans 3 May 2012
fees of £700,000 per annum. He has elected to take 25% of his Judy Lewent 3 March 2011
fees as GSK shares. Sir Deryck Maughan 26 May 2004
Dr Daniel Podolsky 3 July 2008
Non-Executive Director fees
Urs Rohner 3 October 2014
Non-Executive Director fees were last increased in January 2013.
There were no increases to the supplemental fees. A minimum of Tom de Swaan 21 December 2005
25% of fees will continue to be delivered as shares deferred until Jing Ulrich 3 May 2012
the Non-Executive Director steps down from the Board. Hans Wijers 29 January 2013
The Non-Executive Directors’ fees applying since 1 January 2013 The table below (audited) sets out the value of fees and benefits
are set out below: received by the Non-Executive Directors in the form of cash and
shares or ADS. Further details of the Non-Executive Directors’
Per annum
share allocation plan are set out on page 117. Standard annual cash retainer fee £85,000
Supplemental fees
Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee £80,000
Senior Independent Director and Scientific/Medical Experts £30,000
Chairmen of the Remuneration and Corporate £20,000
Responsibility Committees†
Non-Executive Director undertaking intercontinental £7,500
travel to meetings per meeting
† Sir Christopher Gent is the Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility
Committee, but does not receive the additional fee listed above.
2014 2013
Non-Executive Directors’
Fees Fees
emoluments (000) (audited)
Cash Shares/ADS Benefits Total Cash Shares/ADS Benefits Total
Professor Sir Roy Anderson £98 £32 £11 £141 £103 £34 £15 £152
Dr Stephanie Burns $105 $105 $134 $344 $86 $86 $72 $244
Stacey Cartwright £75 £25 £6 £106 £81 £27 £5 £113
Lynn Elsenhans £13 £110 £90 £213 £11 £104 £71 £186
Sir Christopher Gent(c) £460 £250 £67 £777 £540 £170 £40 £750
Judy Lewent $255 $85 $262 $602 $235 $78 $124 $437
Sir Deryck Maughan – $247 $149 $396 – $205 $114 $319
Dr Daniel Podolsky $65 $194 $220 $479 $58 $175 $119 $352
Tom de Swaan £84 £28 £30 £142 £90 £30 £38 £158
Jing Ulrich $167 $56 $190 $413 $157 $52 $182 $391
Hans Wijers(d) £75 £25 £19 £119 £53 £18 £11 £82
Sir Robert Wilson(d) £22 £23 £10 £55 £88 £29 £16 £133
Sir Crispin Davis(d) – – – – – £44 £11 £55
a) Benefits primarily consist of travel and subsistence costs incurred in the normal course of business, in relation to meetings on Board and
Committee matters and other GSK-hosted events which are considered to be taxable. For overseas-based Non-Executive Directors, this
includes travel to meetings in the UK.
b) Non-Executive Directors fees that are paid other than in GBP are converted using an exchange rate that is set annually based on the average rate
for the last quarter of the year prior to payment. The rate is reviewed if it moves significantly during the year.
c) The amounts for benefits and total emoluments in respect of 2013 for Sir Christopher Gent have been restated, resulting in an increase of
£16,000 over the amounts recorded in the 2013 Remuneration report.
d) Sir Crispin Davis retired from the Board on 1 May 2013 and Hans Wijers joined the Board from 1 April 2013. Sir Robert Wilson retired from
the Board on 7 May 2014.
110 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Directors’ interests in shares (audited)
The following interests of the Directors of the company in office at 31 December 2014 and their connected persons are shown below.
Total share plan interests as at 31 December 2014
Total directors’ interests as at Shares/ADS Options
(a)Unvested and Unvested and (a)Unvested and Unvested and
19 February 31 December 1 January not subject to subject to not subject to subject to Vested but Exercised in
2015 2014 2014 performance performance performance performance not exercised the year
Executive Directors
Shares
Sir Andrew Witty(b, c, d, f, g) 846,470 760,988 566,142 – 1,400,056 151,264 150,488 89,993 229,481
Simon Dingemans(b, c, d, f) 187,722 157,208 84,872 – 588,050 67,021 66,257 – –
Dr Moncef Slaoui(g) 27,806 27,657 53,089 – – – – 68,520 26,800
ADS
Dr Moncef Slaoui(c, d, e, h) 230,586 196,133 164,995 66,359 476,335 – – 4,235 –
Non-Executive Directors
Shares(j)
Professor Sir Roy Anderson 20,424 20,424 17,254 20,424
Dr Stephanie Burns 44 44 44 –
Stacey Cartwright 6,286 6,286 4,367 6,165
Sir Christopher Gent 132,575 132,575 109,404 132,575
Tom de Swaan 27,331 27,331 24,059 27,331
Hans Wijers 2,852 2,852 1,113 2,852
ADS(j)
Dr Stephanie Burns 17,355 17,355 14,284 17,290
Lynn Elsenhans 9,657 9,657 5,620 8,657
Judy Lewent 15,332 15,332 13,200 5,166
Sir Deryck Maughan 43,537 43,537 36,198 43,537
Dr Daniel Podolsky 31,515 31,515 25,876 31,515
Jing Ulrich 3,056 3,056 1,809 2,718
a) Unvested shares and ADS and unvested options held by Executive Directors which are not subject to performance reflect bonus deferrals
under the DABP, ShareSave and Share Value Plan (SVP) awards.
b) Total directors’ interests include shares purchased through the GlaxoSmithKline ShareReward Plan. During 2014, Sir Andrew Witty and
Simon Dingemans were each awarded 99 shares under the plan. The balance of shares within the plan is as follows:
ShareReward Plan (Shares) 19 February 2015 31 December 2014 1 January 2014
Sir Andrew Witty 2,828 2,758 2,429
Simon Dingemans 882 837 604
Dr Moncef Slaoui is not eligible to participate in the ShareReward Plan.
c) Total directors’ interests includes shares or ADS resulting from the deferral of bonus (and the subsequent re-investment of dividends) under the
DABP. The totals shown in the table below include bonus deferrals, but exclude any unvested matching awards which are subject to ongoing
performance criteria. The amounts represent the gross share and ADS balances prior to the sale of any shares or ADS to satisfy tax liabilities.
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan (Bonus deferrals) 19 February 2015 31 December 2014 1 January 2014
Sir Andrew Witty (Shares) 182,732 150,488 123,262
Simon Dingemans (Shares) 81,849 66,257 44,268
Dr Moncef Slaoui (ADS) 71,595 58,769 59,424
d) Total directors’ interests at 19 February 2015 include any shares or ADS which vested due to performance under elements of the PSP
(2012-2014 awards), less those sold to satisfy tax liabilities on the vested amounts (see pages 113 to 116 for further details).
e) For Dr Moncef Slaoui, total directors’ interests include ADS purchased within the 401(k) Plan and the US Executive Supplemental Savings Plan
(ESSP), and ADS awarded to Dr Slaoui’s connected person under the SVP. The relevant balances are as follows:
Dr Moncef Slaoui (ADS) 19 February 2015 31 December 2014 1 January 2014
US Retirement Savings Plans 13,340 13,045 10,241
Share Value Plan 5,290 7,590 7,740
As an Executive Director, Dr Moncef Slaoui is not eligible to receive awards under the SVP. The SVP awards shown above reflect the holdings of
Dr Slaoui’s connected person, who is also an employee of GSK. The awards are subject to three-year vesting periods and vesting is contingent
on continued employment within GSK. Any gains arising on vesting are not included in Dr Moncef Slaoui’s total remuneration figures. During the
year, his connected person was granted 2,300 ADS on 24 September 2014 at a grant price of $47.03 (face value of $108,169). Dr Slaoui’s
total share plan interests also include PSP awards held by his connected person. These awards are subject to performance criteria relevant to
employees below the CET. As at 31 December 2014, his connected person held 6,218 ADS under the PSP, comprising awards made in 2012
(1,891 ADS), 2013 (2,214 ADS) and 2014 (2,113 ADS), all amounts including dividend re-investment.
GSK Annual Report 2014 111Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Annual report on remuneration
continued
ShareSave Plan
f) F or Sir Andrew Witty and Simon Dingemans, the unvested options not subject to performance include holdings of 776 and 764 respectively
in the ShareSave Plan, in which they participate on the same terms as all other employees. No ShareSave awards were granted to Sir Andrew
Witty during 2014. Simon Dingemans was granted 238 options under the plan on 29 October 2014. The remainder of unvested options not
subject to performance relate to bonus deferrals structured as nil-cost options under the DABP.
Share Option Plan
g) F or the Executive Directors, the following table provides details of vested but unexercised options as at 31 December 2014 under the Share
Option Plan (SOP). GSK granted options under this plan to Executive Directors on an annual basis until 2009.
Number of shares under option
Date of grant Lapse date Exercise price Sir Andrew Witty Dr Moncef Slaoui
21.02.06 20.02.16 £14.68 89,993 68,520
89,993 68,520
h) The ADS vested but unexercised options totalling 4,235 for Dr Moncef Slaoui represents the ADS options held by Dr Moncef Slaoui’s
connected person.
i) The following table sets out details of options (including nil-cost options under the DABP) exercised during 2014 by Executive Directors.
Simon Dingemans did not exercise any options during the year (his first nil-cost options under the DABP will become exercisable in 2015).
Number of shares Market Gain on exercise
Type of award Date of grant under option Date of exercise Grant price price at exercise (£000)
Sir Andrew Witty
SOP 02.12.04 100,000 01.05.14 £11.23 £16.39 £516
SOP 02.12.04 77,500 23.10.14 £11.23 £13.85 £203
DABP – deferral 24.02.11 37,182 01.05.14 – £16.27 £605
DABP – matching 24.02.11 14,799 01.05.14 – £16.27 £241
229,481 £1,565
Dr Moncef Slaoui
SOP 02.12.04 26,800 24.10.14 £11.23 £14.17 £79
In respect of options under the SOP and the ShareSave plans, the remuneration receivable by an Executive Director is calculated on the date
that the options first vest. The remuneration is the difference between the amount the Executive Director is required to pay to buy the shares or
ADS and the total value of the shares or ADS on the vesting date. If the Executive Director chooses not to exercise the options on the vesting
date, any subsequent increase or decrease in the amount realised will be due to movements in the share or ADS price between the vesting date
and the date of exercise. This increase or decrease in value is the result of an investment decision by the Executive Director and, as such, is not
recorded as remuneration. No options vested for Executive Directors during 2014.
In respect of nil-cost options under the DABP, the bonus which is deferred by the Director is recorded as remuneration (under annual bonus) for
the year to which it relates. The gain recorded on exercise of the nil-cost option comprises this remuneration, the total of the amounts received
in re-invested dividends prior to vesting and the gains or losses resulting from movements in the share price between the dates of grant and
exercise for the initial bonus amount deferred and the dates of dividend reinvestment and exercise for the re-invested dividends.
For the matching element of the DABP, the remuneration of the Director is recorded in the year that the performance criteria end and represents
the number of vested shares multiplied by the price at vesting. The gain recorded on exercise of the nil-cost option comprises the total of this
remuneration and the gain or loss resulting from the movement in the share price between vesting and exercise.
For Sir Andrew Witty:
• The total gain of £719,050 following the exercise of 177,500 options granted under the SOP comprises remuneration of £nil in respect of
2007 (the share options granted on 2 December 2004 were subject to performance criteria for a three year period ended 2007 and vested
on 20 February 2008 with a vesting price of £11.23) and an investment gain of £719,050.
• The gain of £604,951 recorded following the exercise of the 37,182 nil-cost options relating to the deferral of bonus earned in respect
of 2010 comprises remuneration of £376,668 recorded in 2010 as annual bonus and a net gain of £228,283 relating to the re-investment
of dividends prior to vesting and movements in the share price between grant and dividend re-investment dates and the exercise date.
• The gain of £240,780 recorded following the exercise of the 14,799 nil-cost options relating to the DABP matching award comprises
remuneration of £249,067 recorded in 2013 in relation to the DABP (see page 113) and an investment loss of £8,287 relating to the
movement in the share price between the vesting and exercise dates.
For Dr Moncef Slaoui:
• The total gain of £78,792 following the exercise of 26,800 options granted under the SOP comprises remuneration of £45,828 in respect
of 2007 (these options vested in 2007) and an investment gain of £32,964.
j) For Non-Executive Directors, total interests include shares or ADS received as part or all of their fees under the Non-Executive Director Share
Allocation Plan (see page 117 for further details and balances). Note that dividends received on shares or ADS under the plan during 2014
were converted into shares or ADS as at 31 December 2014.
112 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan matching awards
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan (DABP) matching awards are made annually to Executive Directors, based on the individual’s mandatory
deferral and voluntary bonus deferral election. The company will match shares or ADS up to one-for-one depending on the company’s
performance during a three-year performance period. Performance conditions and vesting levels are described on pages 102 to 104 of
this report.
Awards to UK-based Executive Directors are made in the form of nil-cost options. Once an award vests, the UK-based Executive
Director may choose to exercise the award at any time up to 10 years from the date of grant. Awards to US-based Executive
Directors are made as conditional awards of ADS. The amount of remuneration receivable in respect of the matching shares or ADS
is calculated using the share or ADS price on the date the relevant award vests. If the award vests after the date of the Remuneration
report, the calculation is performed using the average share or ADS price over the last quarter of the financial year. If an Executive
Director chooses not to exercise the nil-cost options on the vesting date, any subsequent increase or decrease in the amount
realised will be due to movements in the share price between the vesting date and the date of exercise. This increase or decrease
in value is the result of an investment decision and, as such, is not recorded as remuneration.
Dividends are reinvested on the nil-cost options or conditional awards of shares or ADS made to Executive Directors up to the date
of vesting.
The following tables provide details for each Executive Director in respect of DABP matching awards. Market price at grant and at
vesting represent the closing share prices on those dates.
Performance period
Sir Andrew Witty – Shares
2011-2013 2012-2014 2013-2015 2014-2016 2015-2017
Market price at grant £11.80 £14.12 £14.54 £16.43 £15.20
Unvested at 31 December 2013 36,746 54,266 32,250 – –
Granted – – – 57,060 –
Face value at grant (000) – – – £937 –
Dividends reinvested 436 2,879 1,711 2,322 –
Vested (14,799) – – – –
Lapsed (22,383) – – – –
Unvested at 31 December 2014 – 57,145 33,961 59,382 –
Granted – – – 30,172
Face value at grant (000) – – – £459
Dividends reinvested 787 467 818 –
Vested* – – – –
Lapsed (50,111) – – –
Unvested at 19 February 2015 7,821 34,428 60,200 30,172
Vested shares
Number of shares 14,799 7,821
Market price at vesting £16.83 £14.14
Gain: 000 000
Remuneration for 2013 £249 –
Remuneration for 2014* – £111
* Due to vest on 9 March 2015. An estimated vesting price of £14.14 has been used for calculating the remuneration for 2014. The actual vesting
price will be reported in the 2015 Remuneration report.
GSK Annual Report 2014 113Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Annual report on remuneration
continued
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan matching awards continued
Performance period
Simon Dingemans – Shares
2012-2014 2013-2015 2014-2016 2015-2017
Market price at grant £14.12 £14.54 £16.43 £15.20
Unvested at 31 December 2013 32,056 12,212 – –
Granted – – 18,876 –
Face value at grant (000) – – £310 –
Dividends reinvested 1,699 647 767 –
Unvested at 31 December 2014 33,755 12,859 19,643 –
Granted – – – 14,680
Face value at grant (000) – – – £223
Dividends reinvested 465 177 270 –
Vested* – – – –
Lapsed (29,600) – – –
Unvested at 19 February 2015 4,620 13,036 19,913 14,680
Vested shares
Number of shares 4,620
Market price at vesting £14.14
Gain: 000
Remuneration for 2014* £65
* D ue to vest on 9 March 2015. An estimated vesting price of £14.14 has been used for calculating the remuneration for 2014. The actual vesting
price will be reported in the 2015 Remuneration report.
Performance period
Dr Moncef Slaoui – ADS
2011-2013 2012-2014 2013-2015 2014-2016 2015-2017
Market price at grant $38.22 $44.68 $44.27 $54.17 $46.25
Unvested at 31 December 2013 21,596 21,393 16,435 – –
Granted – – – 18,214 –
Face value at grant (000) – – – $987 –
Dividends reinvested 252 1,125 865 737 –
Vested (8,696) – – – –
Lapsed (13,152) – – – –
Unvested at 31 December 2014 – 22,518 17,300 18,951 –
Granted – – – 11,973
Face value at grant (000) – – – $554
Dividends reinvested 327 251 275 –
Vested* – – – –
Lapsed (19,760) – – –
Unvested at 19 February 2015 3,085 17,551 19,266 11,973
Vested ADS
Number of ADS 8,696 3,085
Market price at vesting $55.75 $44.76
Gain: 000 000
Remuneration for 2013 $485 –
Remuneration for 2014* – $138
* D ue to vest on 9 March 2015. An estimated vesting price of $44.76 has been used for calculating the remuneration for 2014. The actual vesting
price will be reported in the 2015 Remuneration report.
114 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Performance Share Plan awards
Performance Share Plan (PSP) awards are made to Executive Directors on an annual basis. Under the terms of the PSP, the number
of shares or ADS vesting is determined following the end of the relevant performance period and is dependent on GSK’s
performance during that period. Performance conditions and vesting levels are described on pages 102 to 104.
Dividends are reinvested on the performance shares or ADS awarded to executives throughout the performance period and up to the
date of vesting. At vesting, UK participants receive the relevant number of shares and US participants may defer receipt of all or part
of their vested awards. The amount of remuneration receivable in respect of performance shares is calculated using the share or ADS
price on the date the relevant PSP award vests.
The PSP awards made to Sir Andrew Witty in 2012, 2013 and 2014 have three year performance periods. However, the deeds of
award specify that 25% of the awards will be subject to a further two year vesting period (five years in total). During this two year
period, there are no additional performance criteria and the awards will only lapse if Sir Andrew is dismissed for cause. The
remuneration in respect of these awards will therefore be considered to be realised in full following the determination by the
Remuneration Committee of the vesting levels of the initial 75% of the awards (i.e. full remuneration will be recognised at the end of
the three-year performance period). For the 2015 awards, the whole of the award made to each Executive Director has a three year
performance period, but will vest after five years. During the final two years of the vesting period, the award for each Director will only
lapse if he is dismissed for cause. The remuneration in respect of the awards will therefore be recognised at the end of the three year
performance period (i.e. in the 2017 Remuneration report).
The following tables provide details for each Executive Director in respect of PSP awards. Market price at grant and at vesting represent
the closing share prices on those dates.
Performance period
Sir Andrew Witty – Shares
2010-2013 2011-2013 2012-2014 2013-2015 2014-2016 2015-2017
Market price at grant £12.04 £11.78 £14.12 £14.54 £16.43 £15.20
Unvested at 31 December 2013 150,919 488,247 483,464 453,620 – –
Granted – – – – 397,066 –
Face value at grant (000) – – – – £6,524 –
Dividends reinvested 1,795 5,808 25,664 24,079 16,163 –
Vested – (196,634) – – – –
Lapsed (152,714) (297,421) – – – –
Unvested at 31 December 2014 – – 509,128 477,699 413,229 –
Granted – – – 429,338
Face value at grant (000) – – – £6,526
Dividends reinvested 6,777 6,359 5,500 –
Vested (69,650) – – –
Lapsed (446,255) – – –
Unvested at 19 February 2015 – 484,058 418,729 429,338
Vested shares:
Number of shares – 196,634 69,650
Market price at vesting £16.53 £16.53 £14.86
Gain: 000 000 000
Remuneration for 2013 – £3,250 –
Remuneration for 2014 – – £1,035
GSK Annual Report 2014 115Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Annual report on remuneration
continued
Performance Share Plan awards continued
Performance period
Simon Dingemans – Shares
2011-2013 2012-2014 2013-2015 2014-2016 2015-2017
Market price at grant £11.78 £14.12 £14.54 £16.43 £15.20
Unvested at 31 December 2013 225,570 186,133 199,598 – –
Granted – – – 174,729 –
Face value at grant (000) – – – £2,871 –
Dividends reinvested 2,683 9,881 10,596 7,113 –
Vested (90,845) – – – –
Lapsed (137,408) – – – –
Unvested at 31 December 2014 – 196,014 210,194 181,842 –
Granted – – – 188,930
Face value at grant (000) – – – £2,872
Dividends reinvested 2,609 2,798 2,420 –
Vested (26,815) – – –
Lapsed (171,808) – – –
Unvested at 19 February 2015 – 212,992 184,262 188,930
Vested shares:
Number of shares 90,845 26,815
Market price at vesting £16.53 £14.86
Gain: 000 000
Remuneration for 2013 £1,502 –
Remuneration for 2014 – £398
Performance period
Dr Moncef Slaoui – ADS
2010-2013 2011-2013 2012-2014 2013-2015 2015-2017 2015-2017
Market price at grant $37.32 $38.13 $44.68 $44.27 $54.17 $46.25
Unvested at 31 December 2013 47,483 169,742 141,799 138,315 – –
Granted – – – 111,851 –
Face value at grant (000) – – – $6,059 –
Dividends reinvested 554 1,979 7,503 7,319 4,561 –
Vested – (68,345) – – – –
Lapsed (48,037) (103,376) – – – –
Unvested at 31 December 2014 – – 149,302 145,634 116,412 –
Granted – – – 131,005
Face value at grant (000) – – – $6,059
Dividends reinvested 2,119 2,067 1,652 –
Vested (20,443) – – –
Lapsed (130,978) – – –
Unvested at 19 February 2015 – 147,701 118,064 131,005
Vested ADS
Number of ADS – 68,345 20,443
Market price at vesting $55.06 $55.06 $45.95
Gain: 000 000 000
Remuneration for 2013 – $3,763 –
Remuneration for 2014 – – $939
116 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Non-Executive Directors’ Share Allocation Plan
The table below sets out the accumulated number of shares or ADS held by the Non-Executive Directors as at 31 December 2013 and
2014 under the share allocation plan in relation to their fees received as Board members, together with movements in their accounts
during the year.
Number of shares or ADS
31 December Dividends Allocated 31 December
Share allocation plan for Non-Executive Directors Footnote 2014 Paid out reinvested & elected 2013
Shares
Professor Sir Roy Anderson 20,424 – 1,003 2,167 17,254
Stacey Cartwright 6,165 – 256 1,663 4,246
Sir Christopher Gent 132,575 – 6,385 16,786 109,404
Tom de Swaan 27,331 – 1,390 1,882 24,059
Hans Wijers 2,852 – 76 1,663 1,113
Sir Robert Wilson a – (26,151) – 1,437 24,714
ADS
Dr Stephanie Burns 17,290 – 886 2,185 14,219
Lynn Elsenhans 8,657 – 308 3,729 4,620
Judy Lewent 5,166 – 209 1,757 3,200
Sir Deryck Maughan 43,537 – 2,255 5,084 36,198
Dr Daniel Podolsky 31,515 – 1,614 4,025 25,876
Jing Ulrich 2,718 – 98 1,149 1,471
a) S ir Robert Wilson retired from the Board on 7 May 2014. He elected to receive his shares from the Non-Executive Directors’ Share Allocation
Plan immediately upon retiring from the Board. Dividend entitlements in respect of the Q3 and Q4 2013 and the Q1 2014 dividends were paid
in cash in accordance with the plan rules.
GSK Annual Report 2014 117Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Annual report on remuneration
continued
Directors and Senior Management
Further information is provided on compensation and interests of Directors and Senior Management as a group (‘the group’). For this
purpose, the group is defined as the Non-Executive and Executive Directors, other members of the Corporate Executive Team and the
Company Secretary. For the financial year 2014, the following table sets out aggregate remuneration for the group for the periods during
which they served in that capacity.
Remuneration for 2014 (£)
Total compensation paid 18,507,965
Aggregate increase in accrued pension benefits (net of inflation) 67,434
Aggregate payments to defined contribution schemes 808,286
During 2014, members of the group were awarded shares and ADS under the company’s various share plans, as set out in the table
below.
Awards Dividend reinvestment awards
Awarded during 2014 Shares ADS Shares ADS
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan 156,848 36,024 20,417 5,730
Performance Share Plan 1,287,752 269,757 221,990 53,093
Deferred Investment Awards(a) (b) 199,482 – 8,190 –
Share Value Plan(b) 12,265 2,300 – –
At 19 February 2015, the group had the following interests in shares and ADS of the company. Holdings issued under the various
executive share plans are described in Note 42 to the financial statements, ‘Employee share schemes’ on page 200.
Interests at 19 February 2015 Shares ADS
Owned 1,560,796 368,017
Unexercised options 490,740 40,115
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan 1,088,308 245,182
Performance Share Plan 4,557,469 830,845
Deferred Investment Awards(a) (b) 240,974 –
Share Value Plan(b) 30,246 11,030
a) Notional shares and ADS.
b) Executive Directors are not eligible to receive Deferred Investment Awards or participate in the Share Value Plan.
Basis of preparation
The Remuneration report has been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and The Large and Medium-sized Companies
and Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013 (the Regulations). In accordance with the Regulations, the following
parts of the Annual report on remuneration are subject to audit: total remuneration figures for Executive Directors, including further details
for each element of remuneration (salary, benefits, annual bonus, long-term incentive awards and pension); Non-Executive Directors’ fees
and emoluments received in the year; Directors’ interests in shares, including interests in GSK share plans; payments to past directors;
payments for loss of office; and share ownership requirements and holdings, for which the opinion thereon is expressed on page 135.
The remaining sections of the Remuneration report are not subject to audit nor are the pages referred to from within the audited sections.
The Remuneration report has been approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by
Tom de Swaan
Remuneration Committee Chairman
26 February 2015
118 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
2014 Remuneration policy report
The company’s Remuneration policy report was approved on 7 May 2014 at GSK’s Annual General Meeting and received
an overwhelming vote in favour from shareholders. It will remain in place until another policy is presented to and approved by
shareholders. No changes have been made to the policy, however, certain confirmatory statements on how we operate the policy
have been made public which are described on pages 121 and 123 of this report. The Committee is satisfied that the refinements
would not provide for any additional payments above that permitted by the approved policy, and are in line with best practice and in
the interests of shareholders. A copy of the shareholder approved policy is available at www.gsk.com in the Investors section.
The total remuneration for each Executive Director comprises the following elements:
Value earned
Annual from long-term Total
Salary + Benefits + + + Pension =
bonus incentive remuneration*
awards
* The Committee may, in specific circumstances and in line with stated principles, apply clawback/malus as it determines appropriate.
Future policy table
The company’s Remuneration policy from 7 May 2014 in respect of each of the above elements is outlined in the table below.
Salary Benefits International assignment policy
Purpose and link to strategy Purpose and link to strategy Purpose and link to strategy
To provide a core reward for the role. Levels are set to recruit and retain high calibre GSK may require Executive Directors to
individuals to execute the business strategy. relocate in order to meet business
Set at a level appropriate to secure and retain
requirements.
high calibre individuals needed to deliver the Operation
Group’s strategic priorities. Executive Directors are eligible to receive Operation
benefits in line with the policy for other In line with the policy for other employees,
Operation
employees which may vary by location. secondment and travel expenses are provided
Individual’s role, experience and performance
These include car allowances, healthcare, for executives on overseas placement to
and independently sourced data for relevant
life assurance/death in service (where not facilitate the relocation process and to
comparator groups considered when
provided as part of the individual’s pension provide a continued standard of living while
determining salary levels.
arrangements), personal financial advice on assignment.
Salary increases typically take effect in the and contractual post-retirement benefits.
International assignment allowances cover:
first quarter of each year. Executive Directors are also eligible to
relocation costs; accommodation based
participate in all-employee share schemes
Salaries are normally paid in the currency on size of family with appropriate security;
(e.g. ShareSave and ShareReward Plan),
of the Executive Director’s home country. location allowance; relocation-specific tax
under which they are subject to the same
and financial advice; school fees; and tax
Opportunity terms as all other employees.
equalisation.
There is no formal maximum limit, however,
In order to recognise the high business and
ordinarily, salary increases will be broadly in Opportunity
travel requirements of the role, Executive
line with the average increases for the wider Relocation benefits are dependent on a
Directors are also entitled to car travel and
GSK workforce. number of factors such as home and host
may be accompanied by their spouse/partner
country, family size and duration of the
However, increases may be higher to reflect on business trips. Other benefits include
assignment.
a change in the scope of the individual’s role, expenses incurred in the ordinary course of
responsibilities or experience. Salary business, which are deemed to be taxable It is therefore not possible to provide typical
adjustments may also reflect wider market benefits on the individual. values or limits.
conditions in the geography in which the
Benefit provision is tailored to reflect market Performance measures
individual operates.
practice in the geography in which the None.
Salary levels for 2014 are set out on page 98 Executive Director is based and different
of the 2013 Annual Report. policies may apply if current or future
Executive Directors are based in a different
Performance measures
country.
The overall performance of the individual
is a key consideration when determining Opportunity
salary increases. There is no formal maximum limit as benefits
costs can fluctuate depending on changes in
provider cost and individual circumstances.
Details of current benefits and costs are set
out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Performance measures
None.
GSK Annual Report 2014 119Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
2014 Remuneration policy report
continued
Pension
Purpose and link to strategy Opportunity US:
Pension arrangements provide a Pension arrangements for existing
Eligible for the same benefits as other US
competitive level of retirement income. Executive Directors are as follows:
senior executives:
Operation Sir Andrew Witty is a member of the legacy
• Cash Balance Pension Plan and
Pension arrangements are structured in Glaxo Wellcome defined benefit plan with
Supplemental Cash Balance Pension
accordance with the plans operated in the an accrual rate of 1/30th of final
Plan, including Executive Pension Credit,
country in which the individual is likely to pensionable salary per annum. From 1 April
provide maximum contribution of 38%
retire. Where the individual chooses not 2013, pensionable earnings increases are
of base salary across all pension plans.
to become a member of the pension plan, limited to 2% per annum for all members,
cash in lieu of the relevant pension including Sir Andrew Witty. • GSK 401(k) plan (formerly the US
contribution is paid instead. Retirement Savings Plan) and the
Simon Dingemans is not a member of
Executive Supplemental Savings Plan
New Executive Directors in the UK will any GSK pension plan for pension
with core contributions of 2% of salary
be entitled either to join the defined contributions and instead receives a cash
and bonus and matched contributions
contribution pension plan or to receive payment of 20% of salary in lieu of pension
of 4% of salary and bonus .
a cash payment in lieu of pension contribution.
contribution. Global:
Dr Moncef Slaoui is a member of the US
Where an individual is a member of a GSK Cash Balance Pension Plans, the GSK • Eligible for appropriate equivalent
legacy defined benefit plan, a defined 401(k) plan and the Executive arrangement not in excess of the
contribution plan or an alternative pension Supplemental Savings Plan. He is also a US/UK arrangements.
plan arrangement and is subsequently deferred member of the Belgium Fortis
Performance measures
appointed to the Board, he or she may Plan.
None
remain a member of that plan.
The policy for a new external recruit is:
UK:
• 20% of salary contribution to defined
contribution plan and further 5% in
matched contributions in line with the
policy for other members of the plan; or
• 20% of salary cash payment in lieu of
pension contribution.
Annual bonus
Purpose and link to strategy Deferred bonus shares are eligible for Performance measures
To incentivise and recognise execution of dividend equivalents up to the date of vesting. Based on financial targets and individual
the business strategy on an annual basis. performance objectives.
The Committee may apply judgement in
Rewards the achievement of stretching making appropriate adjustments to individual 25% based on core Group profit before
annual financial and strategic business annual bonus amounts. interest and tax for all Executive Directors.
targets and delivery of personal objectives. For the CEO and CFO, the balance is
Clawback and/or malus provisions apply as
based on core Group operating profit.
Operation described on page 119 of the 2013 Annual
For other Executive Directors, the balance
Financial, operational and business targets Report.
is based on relevant business unit
are set at the start of the year by the
Opportunity performance. Committee and bonus levels are
The threshold and maximum bonus
determined by the Committee based on Individual performance objectives
opportunities for Executive Directors are as
performance against those targets. A multiplier, based on the achievement of
follows:
Threshold Maximum individual performance targets, is applied to
Individual objectives are set at the start of
bonus as bonus the bonus awarded for performance against
the year by the Committee and performance a % of as a
against objectives is assessed by the base % of base the financial or operational targets.
salary salary
Committee.
CEO 40 200
Executive Directors are required to defer
CFO 26 180
25% of any bonus earned into shares, or
ADS as appropriate, for three years. They Chairman, Global
may defer up to an additional 25% of bonus R&D & Vaccines 27 200
earned, i.e. up to an overall maximum
deferral of 50%. Deferred shares vest at the
end of the three year performance period.
120 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan (DABP) and Performance Share Plan (PSP)
Purpose and link to strategy Opportunity Performance measures
To incentivise and recognise delivery of the DABP Three equally weighted performance
longer term business priorities, financial Maximum bonus deferral of 50% of annual measures:
growth and increases in shareholder value bonus (25% mandatory and up to an
• R&D new product performance*
compared to other pharmaceutical additional 25% voluntary).
companies. • Adjusted free cash flow*
Maximum matching opportunity level is on a
In addition, to provide alignment with one share for one share basis subject to • Relative TSR†
shareholder interests, a retention element, performance criteria over three years.
* 25% vests at threshold up to 100% for
to encourage long-term shareholding and
PSP maximum performance
discourage excessive risk taking.
The normal maximum award limit is six † Against comparator group currently
Operation times base salary per annum on the comprising GSK and nine other global
DABP maximum initial value of performance pharmaceutical companies, with 30% vesting
Deferred shares may be matched subject to shares that may be granted under the PSP at median, rising to 100% vesting for upper
the achievement of performance conditions to an individual in any one year. quartile performance.
over three years. Matching awards may be For details of unvested 2012, 2013 and
The PSP rules allow for the Committee to
conditional shares or nil-cost options and 2014 awards, see pages 102 and 103,
make awards of more than 600% of salary
are eligible for dividend equivalents in and pages 112 to 114 of the 2013 Annual
in exceptional circumstances.
respect of the performance period. Report.
Current award levels for each of the
PSP
Executive Directors are as follows:
Conditional awards are made annually with
vesting dependent on the achievement of % of salary
performance conditions over three years.
CEO 600
From 2015 awards onwards, vested awards
CFO 400
must be held for a further two years, i.e. five
years in total, prior to release. 25% of the Chairman, Global
R&D & Vaccines 500
CEO’s 2012, 2013 and 2014 PSP awards
are subject to an additional two-year
vesting period.
Awards are eligible for dividend equivalents
up to the date of vesting. A confirmatory statement was issued in
April 2014 to state that the flexibility in
Performance targets for the DABP and exceptional circumstances, will only be
PSP are set at the start of each used in relation to external recruits.
performance period. Further details are set out in the
Clawback and/or malus provisions apply as approach to recruitment section below.
described below.
Clawback and malus
With effect from the 2013 annual bonus (payable in 2014), Executive Directors are required to defer a minimum of 25% of their annual
bonus into the DABP. In the event of a ‘triggering event’ (eg significant misconduct by way of violation of regulation, law, or a significant
GSK policy, such as Code of Conduct) the company will have the ability to claw back up to three years’ annual and deferred bonuses as
well as vested and unvested LTIs. A separate Recoupment Committee has been established to investigate relevant claims of misconduct.
Additionally, where there has been continuity of responsibility between initiation of an adverse event and its emergence as a problem, the
adverse event should be taken into account in assessing annual bonus awards and LTI vesting levels in the year the problem is identified
and for future periods. The Committee may make appropriate adjustments to individual annual bonuses as well as grant and vesting levels
of LTI awards to reflect this.ments to individual annual bonus amounts.
GSK Annual Report 2014 121Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
2014 Remuneration policy report
continued
Long-term incentive measures
The Committee has selected three equally weighted performance measures to focus Executive Directors’ long-term remuneration on
the delivery of GSK’s key strategic priorities. From 2014, PSP and DABP awards made to Executive Directors are based on R&D new
product performance, adjusted free cash flow and relative TSR.
In addition to setting robust targets, the Committee has implemented a number of safeguards to ensure the targets are met in a
sustainable way and any performance reflects genuine achievement against targets and therefore represents the delivery of value for
shareholders.
For each performance measure, the impact of any acquisition or divestment will be quantified and adjusted for after the event. Any major
adjustment in the calculation of performance measures will be disclosed to shareholders on vesting. The principal safeguards are
detailed under each measure below. The Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee and other members, who are also members of the
Remuneration Committee, provide input on the Audit & Risk Committee’s review of the Group’s performance and oversight of any risk
factors relevant to remuneration decisions.
The rationale behind each performance measure and how it is calculated are as follows (for vesting schedules please see page 103 of
the 2013 Annual Report on Remuneration):
Performance
measure Rationale Calculation methodology
R&D new Recognises the importance of R&D to future business The target is based on sales of new products launched in the
product growth performance period and the preceding two years.
performance One of the key indicators used to assess performance in the
The aggregate three-year revenue target should reflect growth
pharmaceutical industry is the strength of a company’s product
on historic performance.
pipeline. The R&D new product performance measure recognises
the importance of R&D to future business growth and has been Vesting may be reduced if insufficient progress has been
included as a measure in order to incentivise R&D performance made during the performance period towards GSK’s target
and drive the development and sales of new products. The return on R&D investment.
Committee believes that it is a robust and appropriate measure
as it reflects actual delivery from the pipeline and launch The Committee recognises that, from time to time, it may
excellence. be appropriate for the company to respond to an emerging
pandemic, as this supports GSK’s ethical responsibilities and
values. The impact of such revenue will be included, unless
the Committee considers that this did not add to shareholder
value and provided that underlying performance was
sufficiently positive.
Adjusted free Recognises the importance of effective working capital Aggregate three-year adjusted free cash flow target.
cash flow and cash management
Adjustments may be made for materially distorting items
performance The use of cash flow as a performance measure is intended to
which may include exchange rate movements, major legal
recognise the importance of effective working capital management
and taxation settlements and special pension contributions.
and of generating cash from assets for future value-creating
investments and for returns to shareholders.
Relative TSR Focuses on delivery of value to shareholders Relative TSR is measured over three years, using a
performance The Committee recognises that the delivery of value to 12-month averaging period. TSR is measured in local
shareholders is a key priority. Relative total shareholder return currency.
against a peer group of global pharmaceutical companies was
selected in order to closely align the interests of Executive
Directors with those of our investors.
The Committee regularly reviews the composition of the TSR
comparator group.
122 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
& remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Annual bonus measures
The annual bonus is designed to drive the achievement of GSK’s annual financial and strategic business targets and the delivery of
personal objectives.
The majority of the annual bonus opportunity is based on a formal review of performance against stretching financial targets. This
outcome is then adjusted to reflect individual performance by applying an individual performance multiplier. For reasons of commercial
sensitivity, specific personal objectives are kept confidential.
Financial performance Individual performance
The Committee believes that it is important for the majority of the CEO CEO
and the CFO’s financial targets to be based on core Group operating profit Individual performance objectives for Sir Andrew Witty are set by
with a smaller element based on core Group profit before interest and tax the Board in January each year. The Board focuses on the strategic
to reflect their wider responsibility for driving profitable investments priorities that have been developed for the Group. Following the
in associates and joint ventures. end of the financial year, the Board reviews his performance
Bonus measures for R&D employees, including Dr Moncef Slaoui, are generally and against the set objectives to determine the
linked to pipeline performance. A robust governance structure has appropriate bonus payable for his performance.
been established to ensure that the bonus payable fairly reflects R&D
Other Executive Directors
productivity and performance.
The CEO sets individual objectives for the other Executive
To recognise Dr Moncef Slaoui’s current dual responsibility for Global Directors in line with company strategy and makes
R&D & Vaccines, an element of his bonus is currently based on Vaccines recommendations to the Committee regarding their performance
performance. Consistent with the other Executive Directors, an element against those objectives at the end of the year. Those
of his bonus is also currently based on core Group profit before interest recommendations are then considered by the Committee before
and tax. it determines the level of bonuses payable.
Approach to recruitment remuneration
The Committee determines the remuneration package of new The Committee is mindful of the sensitivity relating to recruitment
Executive Directors on a case-by-case basis depending on the packages and, in particular, the ‘buying out’ of rights relating to
role, the market from which they will operate and their experience. previous employment and sign-on payments. It will therefore
Total remuneration levels will be set by reference to a relevant pay seek to minimise such arrangements. However, in certain
comparator group and, where appropriate, will allow for future circumstances, to enable the recruitment of exceptional talent, the
development in the role. Committee may determine that such arrangements are in the best
interests of the company and its shareholders. Such arrangements
It is expected that new Executive Directors will participate in short
will, where possible, be on a like-for-like basis with the forfeited
and long-term incentive plans on the same basis as existing
awards. Arrangements will therefore vary depending on the plans
directors. However, in exceptional circumstances, the Committee
and arrangements put in place by the previous employer and may
reserves the flexibility to set the incentive limit for a new Executive
be in the form of cash or shares and may or may not be subject to
Director at up to an additional 50% of the existing limits.
performance conditions. Explanations will be provided where
The Committee retains this flexibility in recognition of the high payments are made either as compensation for previous
levels of variable pay in GSK’s global pharmaceutical competitors. remuneration forfeited or as a sign-on payment.
However, the Committee will only use this flexibility when it is
The remuneration arrangements for any newly appointed Executive
considered to be in the best interests of the company and its
Director will be disclosed as soon as practicable after the
investors.
appointment.
A confirmatory statement was issued in April 2014 to state that The following policy and principles apply to the roles of Chairman
the Committee ‘anticipates that the ability to grant awards under and Non-Executive Director.
the PSP of more than six times salary in exceptional
Chairman
circumstances would only be used for the recruitment of an
Fees will be set at a level that is competitive with those paid by
Executive Director from outside GSK’. The limit is as set out
other companies of equivalent size and complexity. Fees will be
above (i.e. PSP awards of up to a maximum of nine times salary).
paid partly in shares.
Non-Executive Directors
Pension arrangements for external appointments as an Executive
Fee levels for new Non-Executive Directors will be set on the
Director will be as set out in the remuneration policy table on
same basis as for existing Non-Executive Directors of the
page 118 of the 2013 Annual Report.
company. Subject to local laws and regulations, fees will be
Other benefits will be provided in line with the policy for existing paid partly in shares.
Executive Directors.
In the event of a Non-Executive Director with a different role and
Where required to meet business needs, relocation support responsibilities being appointed, fee levels will be benchmarked
will be provided in line with company policy. and set by reference to comparable roles in companies of
equivalent size and complexity.
For any internal appointments, entitlements under existing
remuneration elements will continue, including pension entitlements
and any outstanding awards. However, where not already the case,
internal appointments will be required to move to Executive Director
contractual terms, including termination provisions.
GSK Annual Report 2014 123Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
2014 Remuneration policy report
continued
Loss of office payment policy
The following table sets out the contractual framework for Executive Directors. The terms specifically relating to termination are set out in
more detail below.
Policy
Duration of The company does not have a policy of fixed term contracts. Generally, contracts for new appointments will expire in line
contracts with the applicable policy on retirement age, which since 2009 has been 65.
Contracts for existing Executive Directors will expire on the dates shown on page 123 of the 2013 Annual Report.
Notice period Notice period on termination by employing company or Executive Director is 12 calendar months.
Mitigation The ability to impose a 12-month non-compete period (and a non-solicitation restriction) on an Executive Director is
considered important by the company to have the ability to protect the Group’s intellectual property and staff.
In light of this, the Committee believes that it would not be appropriate to provide for mitigation in the contracts.
Termination of employment
In the event that an Executive Director’s employment with the company terminates, the following policies and payments will apply.
Element of
Remuneration Loss of office payment policy
Termination Termination by notice: 12 months annual salary payable on termination by the company (pro-rated where part of the notice
payment period is worked). No termination payment is made in respect of any part of a notice period that extends beyond the
contract expiry date.
A bonus element is not normally included in the termination payment. However, the terms of the contracts seek to balance
commercial imperatives and best practice. If the company enforces the non-compete clause for the current CEO and
Chairman, Global R&D and Vaccines, up to 12 months on-target bonus will be payable.
Redundancy: As above, for termination by notice. In the UK, only statutory redundancy pay will apply. In the US, general
severance policy does not apply.
Retirement, death and ill-health, injury or disability: No termination payment.
LTI awards PSP and DABP matching awards are governed by the Plan Rules as approved by shareholders.
Termination by notice: Unvested awards lapse.
Redundancy and retirement: Generally, awards vest over the original timescales, subject to the original performance
conditions. Awards made in the last 12 months are forfeited.
Death and ill-health, injury or disability: Generally, awards will vest following the end of the financial year, normally taking
into account performance to that date. Awards may be pro-rated for time.
In the event of a change of control, PSP and DABP matching awards will vest, taking into account performance to date and
normally taking into account the proportion of the performance period that has elapsed. Alternatively, the awards may be
exchanged for new awards.
Annual bonus Termination by notice by individual: If an individual serves notice and the termination date falls before 31 December,
the bonus is forfeited.
Termination by notice by the company, redundancy, retirement, death and ill-health, injury or disability: If the
termination date falls during the financial year, eligible for pro-rated on-target bonus (if employed on 31 December, bonus
payable based on actual results).
DABP deferred Termination by notice: Deferred shares vest in full on the date of termination.
bonus awards
Redundancy, retirement, death and ill-health, injury or disability: Generally, deferred shares vest in full at the end of the
financial year in which the termination date falls.
Benefits Generally, benefits will continue to apply until the termination date.
Termination by notice by the company and retirement (US executives): In line with the policy applicable to US senior
executives, the Chairman, Global R&D & Vaccines may become eligible, at a future date, to receive continuing medical and
dental insurance after termination/retirement.
Termination by mutual agreement: In certain circumstances it can be in the best interests of the company for the Board to manage proactively succession
planning and the development of the senior talent pipeline. In such circumstances, the Board may therefore agree that an executive’s departure will be by
mutual agreement. In order for this to apply, the Committee will need to be satisfied that the executive has demonstrated performance in line with
expectations, where required they should have contributed to an orderly succession, and they should have completed at least 20 years’ service with the
Group on the termination date. In the case of an Executive Director, they would then be treated as a ‘good leaver’ for the purposes of GSK’s long-term
incentive plans. If the termination date falls during the financial year, they would be eligible for a pro-rated on-target bonus and if they are employed on
31 December, the bonus payable would be based on actual results. In the case of the CEO, as a member of the UK defined benefit pension scheme,
his pension would then be payable from the later of his termination date and age 55 without actuarial reduction.
124 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
The Committee does not anticipate the exercise of discretion
Differences between remuneration policy
provided by the PSP and DABP plan rules in respect of termination
for Executive Directors and other employees
payments. However, there may be unforeseen circumstances
where this is in the best interests of the company and its
When setting remuneration levels for the Executive Directors, shareholders. Where it is necessary to exercise discretion,
the Committee considers the prevailing market conditions,
explanations will be provided.
the competitive environment (through comparison with the
Where an Executive Director leaves the company, the Committee remuneration of executives at companies of similar size, complexity
will carry out an assessment of the individual’s performance and and international reach) and the positioning and relativities of pay
conduct over the time in role. If it is determined that the individual’s and employment conditions across the broader GSK workforce.
performance or conduct was contrary to the legitimate
In particular, the Committee considers the range of base salary
expectations of the company, the Committee reserves the right to
rises for the workforces of those parts of GSK where the CEO,
apply appropriate mechanisms such as ‘clawback’ (see page 119
CFO and Chairman, Global R&D & Vaccines are employed.
of the 2013 Annual Report), or reduction or lapsing of outstanding
This is considered to be the most relevant comparison as these
incentive awards (‘malus’), to ensure that any termination payments
populations reflect most closely the economic environments
are in the best interests of the company and its shareholders.
encountered by the individuals.
In the case of termination for cause, all payments and unvested
The same principles apply to the remuneration policy for Executive
awards are forfeited except shares deferred under the DABP
Directors and other employees although the remuneration offered
(which vest in full on the date of termination) and accrued salary
to Executive Directors under this policy has a stronger emphasis
and expenses.
on performance-related pay than that offered to other employees
Service contracts of the Group.
The table below sets out the relevant dates of the current
• Salary and benefits (including pension) are tailored to the local
Executive Directors’ service contracts, which are available for
market.
review at the company’s registered office during office hours.
• The annual bonus plan applies to the wider employee population
Date of Effective
contract date Expiry date Notes and is based on business and individual performance.
Sir Andrew 18.06.08 22.05.08 31.08.24 Contract amended • A combination of performance-related and restricted share
Witty on 04.02.10 to plans applies to the wider employee population.
remove entitlement
to bonus on • All-employee share plans are available to employees in the UK,
termination including the HM Revenue & Customs approved UK ShareSave
and ShareReward Plans.
Simon 08.09.10 04.01.11 30.04.28
Dingemans The company conducts regular employee surveys which include
Dr Moncef 21.12.10 21.12.10 01.08.19 Contract replaced feedback on remuneration matters.
Slaoui on 21.12.10, In the wider organisation, we have aligned our performance
principally to remove
and reward systems with our values and introduced a new
entitlement to bonus
performance system in 2014 that formally evaluates employees
on termination
on both ‘what’ they need to do and ‘how’ they do it. Also, for our
most senior people we dis-incentivise unethical working practices
using a ‘clawback’ mechanism that allows us to recover
performance-related pay.
GSK Annual Report 2014 125Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
2014 Remuneration policy report
continued
Scenarios for future total remuneration CEO (£000)
The charts opposite provide illustrations of the future total 11,647
remuneration for each of the Executive Directors in respect of the 12,000
remuneration opportunity granted to each of them in 2014 under
the Policy. A range of potential outcomes is provided for each 10,000
Executive Director and the underlying assumptions are set out
below. 8,000
65%
All scenarios: 5,477
6,000
• 2014 base salary has been used.
• 2013 benefits and pension figures have been used, i.e. based 4,000 41%
on actual amounts received in 2013 in respect of the ongoing
19%
policy. 1,861 25%
2,000
• Each Executive Director is assumed to defer 50% of their 100% 34% 16%
annual bonus (the maximum permitted amount) and receive the 0
Fixed Expected Maximum
corresponding matching award under the DABP (included
within the value of LTI awards).
CFO (£000)
• The amounts shown under value of LTI awards for the DABP
and PSP are based on the bonus opportunity and the relevant
multiples of 2014 salary respectively. They do not include 12,000
amounts in respect of dividends reinvested and do not factor
in changes to share price over the vesting period. 10,000
Fixed:
8,000
• None of the pay for performance (annual bonus and LTI) would
be payable.
5,731
6,000
Expected:
• For the annual bonus, it is assumed that target financial 61%
4,000
performance is achieved, and the performance of each 2,486
Executive Director would result in an individual performance 40%
2,000
multiplier of 100% (i.e. no increase to the financial performance 923 23% 23%
element of the bonus has been applied). This results in an 100% 37% 16%
0
assumed bonus of 125%, 80% and 85% of salary for Sir Fixed Expected Maximum
Andrew Witty, Simon Dingemans and Dr Moncef Slaoui
respectively.
Chairman, Global R&D & Vaccines ($000)
• For the LTI awards, threshold levels of vesting are assumed.
11,919
Maximum: 12,000
• It is assumed that the annual bonus would be payable at the
maximum level and that the awards under the DABP and PSP 10,000
would vest in full.
61%
8,000
5,314
6,000
39%
4,000
20%
2,224 19%
2,000
100% 42% 19%
0
Fixed Expected Maximum
Long-term variable remuneration Annual variable remuneration
Fixed remuneration
126 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Non-Executive Director remuneration policy
Element Purpose and link to strategy Overview
Chairman’s fee To provide an inclusive flat rate fee There is no formal maximum, however, fees are reviewed annually and set
that is competitive with those paid by reference to a review of the Chairman’s performance and independently
by other companies of equivalent sourced market data.
size and complexity subject to the
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for evaluating and making
limits contained in GSK’s Articles
recommendations to the Board on the fees payable to the Chairman.
of Association.
The Chairman does not participate in discussions in respect of his fees.
Fees can be paid in a combination of cash and/or GSK shares or ADS.
See further details of GSK’s Non-Executive Director’s share allocation plan
below.
Basic fee There is no formal maximum, however, fees are reviewed annually and set
by reference to independently sourced market data.
The Chairman and CEO are responsible for evaluating and making
recommendations to the Board on the fees payable to the company’s
Non-Executive Directors.
A minimum of 25% is delivered in the form of GSK shares or ADS.
See further details of GSK’s Non-Executive Director’s share allocation plan
below.
Supplemental To provide additional compensation Additional fees for Committee Chairmen, intercontinental travel and the
fees for Non-Executive Directors Senior Independent Director. Current fee levels are set out on page 109 of
(excluding the Chairman) taking on the 2013 Annual Report on Remuneration.
additional Board responsibilities or
undertaking intercontinental travel
to meetings.
Benefits To facilitate execution of Travel and subsistence costs for Non-Executive Directors are incurred in the
responsibilities and duties required normal course of business in relation to meetings on Board and Committee
by the role. matters and other GSK-hosted events. For overseas-based Non-Executive
Directors, this includes travel to meetings in the UK. Non-Executive
Directors may from time to time be accompanied by their spouse or partner
to these meetings or events. The costs associated with the above are all met
by the company and in some instances, they are deemed to be taxable and
therefore treated as benefits for the Non-Executive Director.
Non-Executive To enhance the link between At least 25% of the Non-Executive Directors’ total fees, excluding those of
Directors’ share directors and shareholders, GSK the Chairman, are paid in the form of GSK shares or ADS and allocated to a
allocation plan requires Non-Executive Directors share or ADS account.
to receive a significant part of their
The Non-Executive Directors may also take the opportunity to invest part or
fees in the form of GSK shares or
all of the balance of their fees into the same share or ADS account.
ADS.
The GSK shares or ADS which are notionally awarded to the Non-Executive
Directors and allocated to their interest accounts are set out in the table on
page 115 of the 2013 Annual Report and are included in the Directors’
interests table on page 110 of the 2013 Annual Report.
The accumulated balances of these GSK shares or ADS, together with the
notional dividends accrued, are not paid out to Non-Executive Directors until
they leave the Board. Upon leaving, the Non-Executive Directors will receive
either the GSK shares or ADS, or a cash amount equivalent to the value of
the GSK shares or ADS at the date of leaving, or date of payment if later.
Letter of Non-Executive Directors’ and the Non-Executive Directors will be subject to annual election or re-election and
appointment Chairman’s terms of engagement will normally serve no longer than nine years from the date of first election by
are set out in letters of appointment shareholders at a general meeting.
as set out in the table on page 109
The Chairman will be subject to annual appointment by shareholders and
of the 2013 Annual Report.
may serve longer than nine years from the date of first election by
shareholders at a general meeting.
GSK Annual Report 2014 127Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
2014 Remuneration policy report
continued
Operation and scope of Remuneration policy
The current Remuneration policy (the Policy) is set out on pages
117 to 125 of the 2013 Annual Report and it is intended that the
Policy for GSK’s Executive and Non-Executive Directors will apply
from the close of the company’s Annual General Meeting on 7 May
2014 after it has been submitted by the Committee for approval by
shareholders. The Committee currently intends to operate in
accordance with this Policy prior to the Annual General Meeting,
with the exception of the additional two-year holding period for
Performance Share Plan awards which will apply to awards made
in 2015 onwards.
The Committee has written this Policy principally in relation to the
remuneration arrangements for the CEO, CFO and Chairman,
Global R&D & Vaccines whilst taking into account the possible
recruitment of a replacement or an additional Executive Director
during the operation of this Policy. The Committee intends this
Policy to operate for the period set out above in its entirety.
However, it may after due consideration, seek to change the Policy
during this period, but only if it believes it is appropriate to do so
for the long-term success of the company, after consultation with
shareholders and having sought shareholder approval at a general
meeting.
In drafting this Policy, the Committee reserves the right to make
any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office
(including exercising any discretions available to it in connection
with such payments) notwithstanding that they are not in line with
the Policy set out above where the terms of the payment were
agreed (i) before the policy came into effect or (ii) at a time when
the relevant individual was not a director of the company and, in
the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in
consideration for the individual becoming a director of the
company. For these purposes “payments” includes the Committee
satisfying awards of variable remuneration. In relation to an award
over shares, the terms of the payment are “agreed” at the time the
award is granted.
The Committee may also make minor amendments to the Policy
set out in this report (for regulatory, exchange control, tax or
administrative purposes or to take account of a change in
legislation) without obtaining shareholder approval for such
amendments.
Statement of consideration of shareholder views
The Committee engages in regular dialogue with shareholders and
holds annual meetings with GSK’s largest investors to discuss and
take feedback on its remuneration policy and governance matters.
The annual meetings were held in November 2013, at which Tom
de Swaan, Committee Chairman, shared updates on remuneration
matters in the last 12 months and proposals for 2014 onwards.
In particular this covered the changes to performance conditions
applying to long-term incentives, the introduction of an additional
two-year holding period for performance share awards (i.e. five years
in total) which will apply to Executive Directors for awards made in
2015 onwards and policies that are now required to be disclosed
in the Remuneration Policy Report.
128 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Financial
statements
In this section
Directors’ statement of responsibilities 130
Independent Auditor’s report 131
Financial statements 136
Notes to the financial statements 140
Financial statements of
GlaxoSmithKline plc prepared
under UK GAAP 211
GSK Annual Report 2014 129Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Directors’ statement
of responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, Disclosure of information to auditors
the Remuneration report and the Group financial statements The Directors in office at the date of this Annual Report have each
in accordance with applicable law and regulations. confirmed that:
UK company law requires the Directors to prepare financial • so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit information
statements for each financial year. Under that law the Directors of which the company’s auditors are unaware; and
are required to prepare the Group financial statements in
• he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards
taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any
(IFRS) as adopted by the European Union. In preparing the Group
relevant audit information and to establish that the company’s
financial statements, the Directors have also elected to comply
auditors are aware of that information.
with IFRS, as issued by the International Accounting Standards
Board (IASB). Under company law the Directors must not approve This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance
the Group financial statements unless they are satisfied that they with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and
Going concern basis
of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
Pages 48 to 70 contain information on the performance of the
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are Group, its financial position, cash flows, net debt position and
required to: borrowing facilities. Further information, including Treasury risk
management policies, exposures to market and credit risk and
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them
hedging activities, is given in Note 41 to the financial statements,
consistently;
‘Financial instruments and related disclosures’. After making
• make judgements and accounting estimates that are enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the
reasonable and prudent; Group has adequate resources to continue in operational
existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they
• state that the Group financial statements comply with IFRS
continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the
as adopted by the European Union and IFRS as issued by
financial statements.
the IASB, subject to any material departures disclosed and
explained in the Group financial statements; Internal control
The Board, through the Audit & Risk Committee, has reviewed the
• prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis
assessment of risks and the internal control framework that operates
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will
in GSK and has considered the effectiveness of the system of
continue in business.
internal control in operation in the Group for the year covered by
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting this Annual Report and up to the date of its approval by the Board
records that are sufficient to show and explain the company’s of Directors.
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time
The UK Corporate Governance Code
the financial position of the Group and to enable them to ensure
The Board considers that GlaxoSmithKline plc applies the
that the Group financial statements and the Remuneration report
principles and provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code
comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS
maintained by the Financial Reporting Council, as described in
Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets
the Corporate Governance section on pages 78 to 95, and has
of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the
complied with its provisions. The Board further considers that
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and
The Group financial statements for the year ended 31 December understandable, and provides the information necessary for
2014, comprising principal statements and supporting notes, shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, business
are set out in ‘Financial statements’ on pages 136 to 210 of this model and strategy.
report. The responsibilities of the auditors in relation to the Group
As required by the Financial Conduct Authority’s Listing Rules,
financial statements are set out in the Independent Auditors’
the auditors have considered the Directors’ statement of
report on pages 131 to 135.
compliance in relation to those points of the UK Corporate
The Group financial statements for the year ended 31 December Governance Code which are specified for their review.
2014 are included in the Annual Report, which is published in
Annual Report
printed form and made available on our website. The Directors are
The Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2014,
responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Annual Report
comprising the Report of the Directors, the Remuneration report,
on our website in accordance with UK legislation governing the
the Financial statements and additional information for investors,
preparation and dissemination of financial statements. Access to
has been approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its
the website is available from outside the UK, where comparable
behalf by
legislation may be different.
Each of the current Directors, whose names and functions are
listed in the Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report
2014 confirms that, to the best of his or her knowledge: Sir Christopher Gent
Chairman
• the Group financial statements, which have been prepared
26 February 2015
in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and IFRS
as issued by the IASB, give a true and fair view of the assets,
liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group; and
• the Strategic Report and risk sections of the Annual Report
include a fair review of the development and performance of
the business and the position of the Group, together with a
description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
130 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Independent Auditors’ report
to the members of GlaxoSmithKline plc
Report on the Group financial statements Our audit approach
Overview:
Our opinion
Materiality
In our opinion, the Group financial statements defined below:
• Overall group materiality: £215 million which represents 4%
• give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs at of profit before tax, adding back certain non-recurring items.
31 December 2014 and of its profit and cash flows for the
Audit scope
year then ended;
• Our audit included full scope audits of 24 reporting components
• have been properly prepared in accordance with International with specific audit procedures performed at a further 32
Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) as adopted by the reporting components.
European Union; and
• Taken together, the components at which audit work was
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of performed accounted for 68% of consolidated revenue and 74%
the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. of consolidated profit before tax and covered all components
that individually contributed more than 2% of revenue and profit
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB
before tax.
As explained in Note 1 to the Group financial statements, in
addition to applying IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, Areas of focus
the Group has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International • Rebates, discounts, allowances and returns in the US
Accounting Standards Board ( the ‘IASB’). Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines business
In our opinion, the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs • Transformation of the Group’s finance processes
as issued by the IASB.
• Potential implications of alleged illegal acts
What we have audited
• Litigation
GlaxoSmithKline plc’s Group financial statements comprise:
• Carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets
• the consolidated balance sheet at 31 December 2014;
• Uncertain tax positions
• the consolidated income statement and statement of
comprehensive income for the year then ended; The scope of our audit and our areas of focus
We conducted our audit in accordance with International
• the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (‘ISAs (UK & Ireland)’).
then ended;
We designed our audit by determining materiality and
• the consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended;
assessing the risks of material misstatement in the Group financial
and
statements. In particular, we looked at where the Directors made
• the notes to the consolidated financial statements, which subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant
include a summary of significant accounting policies and other accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and
explanatory information. considering future events that are inherently uncertain. As in all
of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the
of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was
preparation of the Group financial statements comprises
evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of
applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on
our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are
identified as areas of focus in the table below. We have also set
out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in
order to provide an opinion on the Group financial statements as
a whole. Any comments we make on the results of our procedures
should be read in this context. For each area of focus below,
where appropriate, we evaluated the design and tested the
operating effectiveness of key internal controls over financial
reporting, including testing the operation of IT systems from
which financial information is generated. This is not a complete
list of all risks identified by our audit.
GSK Annual Report 2014 131Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Independent Auditors’ report
continued
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Rebates, discounts, allowances and returns in the US We obtained management’s calculations for accruals under applicable
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines business schemes and validated the assumptions used by reference to the Group’s
Refer to Note 3 in the Group financial statements stated commercial policies, the terms of the applicable contracts, third party
data related to patient enrolment in US government funded benefit schemes
The Group makes sales to various customers in the US that fall under
and historical levels of product returns.
certain commercial and government mandated contracts and
reimbursement arrangements, of which the most significant are We compared the assumptions to contracted prices, historical rebates,
Medicaid and Medicare. The Group also provides a right of return to its discounts, allowances and returns levels (where relevant) and to current
customers for certain products. payment trends. We also considered the historical accuracy of the Group’s
estimates in previous years, including an evaluation of releases of accruals
These arrangements result in deductions to gross sales in arriving at
in 2014 following payments or settlements with US state authorities.
turnover and give rise to obligations for the Group to provide customers
with rebates, discounts, allowances and the right of return, which for We formed an independent expectation of the largest elements of the
unsettled amounts are recognised as an accrual. accrual at 31 December 2014 using third party data and compared this
expectation to the actual accrual recognised by the Group. In undertaking
We focused on this area because rebates, discounts, allowances and
this work, we considered the impact of the decrease in revenue for certain
returns arrangements are complex and because establishing an
respiratory products, principally Advair, and relevant changes in pricing
appropriate accrual requires significant judgement and estimation by
and billing arrangements in 2015 with commercial and government
the Directors. The Directors have determined an accrual of £1.3 billion
healthcare providers.
to be necessary at 31 December 2014.
Based on the procedures performed, we did not identify any material
differences between our independent expectations and the accrual.
Transformation of the Group’s finance processes We centrally managed the work performed by component audit teams at
The Group continues to rationalise and simplify its finance processes BPOs and BSCs, which consisted of controls and substantive testing,
including the roll-out of an enterprise-wide resource planning system and conducted oversight visits to all of the BSC and BPO sites in Group
(ERP) through Core Business Services. In addition, financial transaction audit scope (namely India, Malaysia, the US and the UK) to direct the work
processes have continued to migrate to third party business process performed.
outsourcing locations (BPOs) and related accounting services have
We evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of key
been centralised at in-house business service centres (BSCs).
automated and manual controls both before and after the migration to the
These changes represent a financial reporting risk while migrations are centralised processing environment, including IT general controls and controls
happening as controls and processes that have been established and in respect of data migration between ERP systems. We also substantively
embedded over a number of years are updated and migrated into the tested the accuracy and completeness of data migration into the new ERP
new ERP environment. There is an increased risk of breakdown in along with the controls over this process and we did not note any significant
internal financial controls during the transition and an increased risk of exceptions.
inaccurate or incomplete migration of financial data, which would in turn
increase risk of material misstatements in the Group financial
statements.
Potential implications of alleged illegal acts We inspected the ruling from the Changsha Intermediate People’s Court
Refer to Notes 3 and 45 in the Group financial statements in Hunan Province, China in respect of the allegations of bribery in China.
We incorporated this risk as an area of focus in our 2013 audit as a We validated that the amounts paid in the final settlement of this liability
result of allegations of illegal acts carried out by the Group’s Chinese were consistent with the ruling.
Pharmaceuticals business. In addition, the Group is conducting Using our specialist forensic knowledge, we independently assessed the
investigations in a number of other markets. The Group has continued to scope and findings of the investigative work performed by the Group’s
co-operate with enquiries by the Department of Justice (‘DoJ’) in the US external legal counsel in respect of the allegations in China. We considered
and by the Serious Fraud Office (‘SFO’) in the UK. The SFO announced the output of this assessment in determining our audit approach. We met with
in 2014 that it had commenced a criminal investigation into the Group’s the component audit team in Shanghai, China to understand and evaluate the
commercial practices. In addition, the Group announced in 2014 that it steps taken by the Group to address the allegations.
had paid a £301 million fine to the Chinese government in connection
with these allegations. We met with the Directors, management, in-house legal counsel and the
Group’s external advisors to assess the risk of occurrence of similar acts
We focused on the following risks, which might have a material impact
outside of China, the status of ongoing investigations and the potential for
on the Group financial statements:
further fines and penalties. This included understanding and evaluating the
• That illegal acts similar to those previously alleged in China have Group’s internal investigations processes, which consider risks and
occurred elsewhere in the Group; and allegations reported through various channels including whistle-blowing
• That further fines and penalties might be forthcoming in respect of hotlines. We also evaluated the enhancements and changes that have been
ongoing investigations into the Group’s commercial practices that made to other control processes and business practices since 2013.
could give rise to the need for additional provisions or asset
To supplement these centralised procedures, we selected 15 territories
impairments outside of China.
(including certain markets not otherwise included in Group audit scope)
where the country-specific risk of corruption and bribery was deemed high.
For these territories, we obtained specific reporting from the component audit
teams to provide us with evidence that each had appropriately designed and
performed audit procedures to address the audit risk that the Group financial
statements might be materially misstated due to the potential financial impact
of illegal acts.
We discussed the status of investigations opened by the DoJ and SFO
with the Audit & Risk Committee, the Board of Directors, management and
in-house general counsel. In addition, we engaged directly with the Group’s
external advisors to corroborate our understanding. We were satisfied with
the Group’s provisioning decisions at 31 December 2014 and with the
adequacy of disclosures given the status of these investigations.
132 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Litigation We discussed the status of significant known actual and potential litigation
Refer to Notes 3 and 45 in the Group financial statements with in-house legal counsel. We obtained and substantively tested
The pharmaceuticals industry is heavily regulated which increases evidence to support the decisions and rationale for provisions held or
inherent litigation risk. The Group is engaged in a number of legal decisions not to recognise provisions, including correspondence with legal
actions, including product liability, anti-trust and related private counsel and other counter-parties to litigation. We also monitored and
litigation, of which the most significant are disclosed in Note 45. considered external information sources to identify potential legal actions.
We focused on this area as the eventual outcome of claims is uncertain We developed an independent expectation of the litigation provisions
and the positions taken by the Directors are based on the application based on product litigation history and other available evidence to
of material judgement and estimation. Accordingly, unexpected adverse challenge the valuation and completeness of the provisions recognised
outcomes could significantly impact the Group’s reported profit and by the Group. We obtained confirmations from external legal counsel to
balance sheet position. confirm our understanding of settled and outstanding litigation and
asserted claims. We evaluated significant adjustments to legal reserves
At 31 December 2014, the Group held provisions of £520 million in recorded during the year to determine if they were indicative of
respect of legal actions. management bias.
As disclosed in Note 45 to the Group financial statements, the eventual
outcome of legal proceedings is dependent on the outcome of future events
and therefore the position taken by the Group is inherently judgemental.
We found that in the context of the Group financial statements taken as a
whole the judgements made by management were reasonable and the
disclosures made in respect of these provisions and contingent liabilities
were appropriate.
Carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets Leveraging our specialist valuations knowledge, we obtained the Group’s
Refer to Notes 18 and 19 in the Group financial statements impairment analyses and tested the reasonableness of key assumptions,
The Group has £7.8 billion of intangible assets, including significant including profit and cash flow growth, terminal values, the impact of the
licenses, patents and acquired brands, and £3.6 billion of goodwill at expiry of patents, potential product obsolescence and the selection of
31 December 2014. The Group recognised impairments of intangible discount rates. We challenged management to substantiate its
assets totalling £157 million during the year. assumptions, including comparing relevant assumptions to industry and
economic forecasts.
We have focused on acquired intangible assets, as these are the most
significant individually and in aggregate, and a number have indefinite We interrogated the integrity of supporting calculations and we
lives. The Group has also recognised goodwill from a number of corroborated certain information with third party sources, including
acquisitions. expectations of performance of certain assets and components of the
business.
The carrying values of goodwill and intangible assets are contingent
on future cash flows and there is risk that if these cash flows do not We obtained and evaluated management’s sensitivity analyses to ascertain
meet the Group’s expectations that the assets will be impaired. The the impact of reasonably possible changes and we performed our own
impairment reviews performed by the Group contain a number of independent sensitivity calculations to quantify the downside changes
significant judgements and estimates including revenue growth, the to management’s models required to result in impairment, focusing in
success of new product launches, profit margins, cash conversion and particular on Emerging Markets which is more sensitive to change than
discount rate. Changes in these assumptions might lead to a change in the other CGUs.
the carrying value of intangible assets and goodwill. The risk is greater As a result of our work, we determined that the quantum of impairment
for the US and Emerging Markets Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines cash recognised in 2014 was appropriate. For those intangible assets, including
generating units (‘CGUs’) where valuation headroom compared to goodwill, where management determined that no impairment was required,
carrying value is lower than in previous years. we found that these judgements were supported by reasonable
assumptions that would require significant downside changes before any
additional material impairment was necessary.
Uncertain tax positions Using our specialist UK, US, international tax and transfer pricing
Refer to Note 14 in the Group financial statements knowledge, we evaluated and challenged management’s judgements in
The Group operates in a complex multinational tax environment and respect of estimates of tax exposures and contingencies in order to assess
there are open tax and transfer pricing matters with UK and overseas the adequacy of the Group’s tax provisions. This includes obtaining and
tax authorities. In addition, from time to time the Group enters into evaluating certain third party tax opinions that the Group has obtained to
transactions with complicated accounting and tax consequences. assess the appropriateness of any assumptions used, including in respect
Judgement is required in assessing the level of provisions required in of steps taken in advance of the proposed three-part transaction with
respect of uncertain tax positions. At 31 December 2014, the Group Novartis AG.
has recognised provisions for uncertain tax provisions, offset by current In understanding and evaluating management’s judgements, we considered
tax assets, included within the current tax payable of £945 million the status of recent and current tax authority audits and enquiries, the
(2013 – £1,452 million). outturn of previous claims, judgemental positions taken in tax returns and
current year estimates and developments in the tax environment.
From the evidence obtained, we considered the level of provisioning to
be acceptable in the context of the Group financial statements taken as a
whole. However, we noted that the assumptions and judgements that are
required to formulate the provisions mean that the range of possible
outturns is broad.
GSK Annual Report 2014 133Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Independent Auditors’ report
continued
How we tailored the audit scope Further specific audit procedures over central functions, the
In identifying these areas of focus, we tailored the scope of our Group consolidation and areas of significant judgement (including
audit to ensure that we performed sufficient work to be able to give taxation, goodwill, intangible assets, treasury, post-retirement
an opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole, taking benefits, litigation and the elimination of unrealised intercompany
into account the geographic structure of the Group, the profit in inventory) were directly led by the Group audit team.
accounting processes and controls and the industry in which the
Taken together, the territories and functions where we performed
Group operates.
our audit work accounted for 68% of consolidated revenue and
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of over 400 74% of consolidated profit before tax. This was before considering
reporting units, each of which is considered to be a component. the contribution to our audit evidence from performing audit work
We identified 24 reporting units that, in our view, required an at the divisional and Group levels, including testing of monitoring
audit of their complete financial information due to their size controls and disaggregated analytical review procedures, which
or risk characteristics. Specific audit procedures over significant covers a significant portion of the Group’s smaller and lower risk
balances and transactions were performed at a further 32 components that were not directly included in our Group audit
reporting units to give appropriate coverage of all material scope. In addition, we obtained audit evidence over certain
balances. Where these reporting units are supported by shared out-of-scope components through the procedures we undertook
financial service centres, these centres were also included in at the Group’s shared service centres, encompassing BPOs and
Group audit scope. None of the reporting units not included BSCs, and over centralised IT infrastructure where these
in our Group audit scope individually contributed more than processes are standardised.
2% to consolidated revenue or profit before tax.
Materiality
Where the work was performed by component auditors, The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of
we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the materiality. We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
audit work at those reporting units. As a result, eight overseas These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to
components were visited by senior members of the Group audit determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and
team, including all of the Group’s significant components in the extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of
US (which are visited at least annually) alongside Belgium, China, misstatements, both individually and on the Group financial
France, Germany and Italy. In addition, each of the five shared statements as a whole.
service centres supporting reporting components in Group audit
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality
scope was visited. For those components in Group audit scope
for the Group financial statements as a whole as follows:
where a site visit was not undertaken, our involvement included
review of component auditor work papers and attendance at
certain component audit clearance meetings.
Overall group materiality £215 million (2013 – £332 million)
How we determined it 4% of profit before tax (£2,968 million) adding back non-recurring items including the
remeasurement charge for the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare contingent consideration (£768 million),
major restructuring costs (£755 million), legal costs including the fine paid in China (£548 million),
items of income and expense relating to major acquisition and disposal activity (net £8 million),
incremental costs of the change in timing of recognition of the US Branded Prescription Drug Fee
(£115 million) and impairment of intangible assets (£157 million).
Rationale for benchmark applied The Group’s principal measure of earnings comprises core results, which adds back to statutory
results a number of items of income and expenditure including those detailed above. Management
uses this measure as it believes that it eliminates the volatility inherent in one-off items. We have
taken this measure into account in determining our materiality, except that we have not adjusted
profit before tax to add back amortisation of intangible assets and certain other smaller non-core
items as in our view these are recurring items which do not introduce volatility to the Group’s
earnings. Materiality is lower than last year primarily due to the effect of lower profitability in 2014.
We agreed with the Audit & Risk Committee that we would report to it misstatements above £10 million (2013 – £10 million) identified
during our audit as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Other required reporting
Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review the Directors’
statement, set out on page 130, in relation to going concern. Consistency of other information
We have nothing to report having performed our review. Companies Act 2006 opinions
As noted in the Directors’ statement, the Directors have concluded In our opinion:
that it is appropriate to prepare the Group financial statements • the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’
using the going concern basis of accounting. The going concern Report for the financial year for which the Group financial
basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain statements are prepared is consistent with the Group financial
in operation, and that the Directors intend for it to do so, for at least statements; and
one year from the date the Group financial statements are signed.
As part of our audit, we have concluded that the Directors’ use of • the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement
the going concern basis is appropriate. set out on pages 78 to 95 with respect to internal control and
risk management systems and about share capital structures
However, because not all future events or conditions can be is consistent with the Group financial statements.
predicted, these statements are not a guarantee of the Group’s
ability to continue as a going concern.
134 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting
• information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions
- materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Group finanical statements; or to report arising from this
- apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in responsibility.
the course of performing our audit; or
- otherwise misleading
• t he statement given by the Directors on page 130 in accordance with provision C.1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance We have no exceptions
Code (the “Code”) that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and to report arising from this
provides the information necessary for members to assess the Group’s performance, business model and strategy is responsibility.
materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
• the section of the Annual Report on page 86, as required by provision C.3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the We have no exceptions
Audit & Risk Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit & Risk Committee. to report arising from this
responsibility.
Adequacy of information and explanations received • the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made
Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to by the Directors; and
you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information
• the overall presentation of the Group financial statements.
and explanations we require for our audit. We have no exceptions
to report arising from this responsibility. We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the
Directors’ judgements against available evidence, forming our
Directors’ remuneration
own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the Group
Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to
financial statements.
you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration
specified by law have not been made. We have no exceptions to We test and examine information, using sampling and other
report arising from this responsibility. auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to
provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtain
Corporate governance statement
audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls,
Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review the part of
substantive procedures or a combination of both.
the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the parent
company’s compliance with 10 provisions of the UK Corporate In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information
Governance Code. We have nothing to report having performed in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the
our review. audited Group financial statements and to identify any information
that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially
Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you
inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of
if, in our opinion, a Corporate Governance Statement has not been
performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material
prepared by the parent company. We have no exceptions to report
misstatements or inconsistencies, we consider the implications
arising from this responsibility.
for our report.
Responsibilities for the financial statements
Other matters
and the audit
We have reported separately on the parent company financial
Our responsibilities and those of the Directors statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year ended 31
As explained more fully in the Directors’ statement of December 2014 and on the information in the Directors’
responsibilities set out on page 130, the Directors are responsible Remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
for the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being
satisfied that they give a true and fair view. The company has passed a resolution in accordance with section
506 of the Companies Act 2006 that the senior statutory auditor’s
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group name should not be stated.
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs
(UK & Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the
Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with London
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other 26 February 2015
purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume
responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to
whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save Notes:
where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
(a) T he maintenance and integrity of the GlaxoSmithKline plc
What an audit of financial statements involves website is the responsibility of the Directors; the work carried
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these
disclosures in the Group financial statements sufficient to give matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility
reasonable assurance that the Group financial statements are for any changes that may have occurred to the Group financial
free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. statements since they were initially presented on the website.
This includes an assessment of:
(b) L egislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation
• whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s and dissemination of financial statements may differ from
circumstances and have been consistently applied and legislation in other jurisdictions.
adequately disclosed;
GSK Annual Report 2014 135Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Financial statements
Consolidated income statement
for the year ended 31 December 2014
2014 2013 2012
Notes £m £m £m
Turnover 6 23,006 26,505 26,431
Cost of sales (7,323) (8,585) (7,925)
Gross profit 15,683 17,920 18,506
Selling, general and administration (8,246) (8,480) (8,789)
Research and development (3,450) (3,923) (3,979)
Royalty income 310 387 306
Other operating income 7 (700) 1,124 1,256
Operating profit 8 3,597 7,028 7,300
Finance income 11 68 61 79
Finance expense 12 (727) (767) (808)
Profit on disposal of interest in associates – 282 –
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures 13 30 43 29
Profit before taxation 2,968 6,647 6,600
Taxation 14 (137) (1,019) (1,922)
Profit after taxation for the year 2,831 5,628 4,678
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 75 192 179
Profit attributable to shareholders 2,756 5,436 4,499
2,831 5,628 4,678
Basic earnings per share (pence) 15 57.3p 112.5p 91.6p
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 15 56.7p 110.5p 90.2p
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
for the year ended 31 December 2014
2014 2013 2012
£m £m £m
Profit for the year 2,831 5,628 4,678
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges 34 (497) (255) (226)
Reclassification of exchange on liquidation or disposal of overseas subsidiaries 34 (219) – –
Deferred tax on exchange movements (2) – –
Fair value movements on available-for-sale investments 29 367 77
Deferred tax on fair value movements on available-for-sale investments (78) (29) (10)
Reclassification of fair value movements on available-for-sale investments (155) (38) (19)
Deferred tax reversed on reclassification of available-for-sale investments 58 7 10
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges 5 (9) (6)
Deferred tax on fair value movements on cash flow hedges (1) 1 –
Reclassification of cash flow hedges to income statement (5) 2 2
Share of other comprehensive income of associates and joint ventures 18 15 30
(847) 61 (142)
Items that will not be reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets of non-controlling interests 16 (35) (30)
Remeasurement (losses)/gains on defined benefit plans (1,181) 847 (685)
Deferred tax on actuarial movements in defined benefit plans 262 (286) 193
(903) 526 (522)
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year 34 (1,750) 587 (664)
Total comprehensive income for the year 1,081 6,215 4,014
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to:
Shareholders 990 6,058 3,865
Non-controlling interests 91 157 149
Total comprehensive income for the year 1,081 6,215 4,014
136 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Consolidated balance sheet
as at 31 December 2014
2014 2013
Notes £m £m
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 17 9,052 8,872
Goodwill 18 3,724 4,205
Other intangible assets 19 8,320 9,283
Investments in associates and joint ventures 20 340 323
Other investments 21 1,114 1,202
Deferred tax assets 14 2,688 2,084
Derivative financial instruments 41 – 1
Other non-current assets 22 735 889
Total non-current assets 25,973 26,859
Current assets
Inventories 23 4,231 3,900
Current tax recoverable 14 138 129
Trade and other receivables 24 4,600 5,442
Derivative financial instruments 41 146 155
Liquid investments 32 69 66
Cash and cash equivalents 25 4,338 5,534
Assets held for sale 26 1,156 1
Total current assets 14,678 15,227
Total assets 40,651 42,086
Current liabilities
Short-term borrowings 32 (2,943) (2,789)
Trade and other payables 27 (7,958) (8,317)
Derivative financial instruments 41 (404) (127)
Current tax payable 14 (945) (1,452)
Short-term provisions 29 (1,045) (992)
Total current liabilities (13,295) (13,677)
Non-current liabilities
Long-term borrowings 32 (15,841) (15,456)
Deferred tax liabilities 14 (445) (693)
Pensions and other post-employment benefits 28 (3,179) (2,189)
Other provisions 29 (545) (552)
Derivative financial instruments 41 (9) (3)
Other non-current liabilities 30 (2,401) (1,704)
Total non-current liabilities (22,420) (20,597)
Total liabilities (35,715) (34,274)
Net assets 4,936 7,812
Equity
Share capital 33 1,339 1,336
Share premium account 33 2,759 2,595
Retained earnings 34 (2,074) 913
Other reserves 34 2,239 2,153
Shareholders’ equity 4,263 6,997
Non-controlling interests 673 815
Total equity 4,936 7,812
The financial statements on pages 136 to 210 were approved by the Board on 26 February 2015 and signed on its behalf by
Sir Christopher Gent
Chairman
GSK Annual Report 2014 137Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Financial statements
continued
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 December 2014
Shareholders’ equity
Non-
Share Share Retained Other controlling Total
capital premium earnings reserves Total interests equity
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2012 1,387 1,673 3,357 1,602 8,019 795 8,814
Profit for the year – – 4,499 – 4,499 179 4,678
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year – – (665) 31 (634) (30) (664)
Total comprehensive income for the year – – 3,834 31 3,865 149 4,014
Distributions to non-controlling interests – – – – – (171) (171)
Dividends to shareholders – – (3,814) – (3,814) – (3,814)
Changes in non-controlling interests – – (382) – (382) 164 (218)
Forward contract relating to non-controlling interest – – – 8 8 – 8
Ordinary Shares issued 7 349 – – 356 – 356
Ordinary Shares purchased and cancelled or held as Treasury shares (45) – (2,493) 45 (2,493) – (2,493)
Ordinary Shares acquired by ESOP Trusts – – – (37) (37) – (37)
Ordinary Shares transferred by ESOP Trusts – – – 58 58 – 58
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts – – (80) 80 – – –
Share-based incentive plans – – 211 – 211 – 211
Tax on share-based incentive plans – – 9 – 9 – 9
At 31 December 2012 1,349 2,022 642 1,787 5,800 937 6,737
Profit for the year – – 5,436 – 5,436 192 5,628
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year – – 316 306 622 (35) 587
Total comprehensive income for the year – – 5,752 306 6,058 157 6,215
Distributions to non-controlling interests – – – – – (238) (238)
Dividends to shareholders – – (3,680) – (3,680) – (3,680)
Changes in non-controlling interests – – (584) – (584) (41) (625)
Ordinary Shares issued 12 573 – – 585 – 585
Ordinary Shares purchased and cancelled or held as Treasury shares (25) – (1,504) 25 (1,504) – (1,504)
Ordinary Shares acquired by ESOP Trusts – – – (45) (45) – (45)
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts – – (80) 80 – – –
Share-based incentive plans – – 294 – 294 – 294
Tax on share-based incentive plans – – 73 – 73 – 73
At 31 December 2013 1,336 2,595 913 2,153 6,997 815 7,812
Profit for the year – – 2,756 – 2,756 75 2,831
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year – – (1,626) (140) (1,766) 16 (1,750)
Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the year – – 1,130 (140) 990 91 1,081
Distributions to non-controlling interests – – – – – (205) (205)
Dividends to shareholders – – (3,843) – (3,843) – (3,843)
Changes in non-controlling interests – – (58) – (58) (28) (86)
Forward contract relating to non-controlling interest – – – 21 21 – 21
Ordinary Shares issued 3 164 – – 167 – 167
Ordinary Shares purchased and cancelled or held as Treasury shares – – (238) – (238) – (238)
Ordinary Shares acquired by ESOP Trusts – – 150 (245) (95) – (95)
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts – – (450) 450 – – –
Share-based incentive plans – – 326 – 326 – 326
Tax on share-based incentive plans – – (4) – (4) – (4)
At 31 December 2014 1,339 2,759 (2,074) 2,239 4,263 673 4,936
138 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Consolidated cash flow statement
for the year ended 31 December 2014
2014 2013 2012
Notes £m £m £m
Cash flow from operating activities
Profit after taxation for the year 2,831 5,628 4,678
Adjustments reconciling profit after tax to operating cash flows 36 3,453 2,871 1,370
Cash generated from operations 6,284 8,499 6,048
Taxation paid (1,108) (1,277) (1,673)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 5,176 7,222 4,375
Cash flow from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (1,188) (1,188) (1,051)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 39 46 68
Purchase of intangible assets (563) (513) (469)
Proceeds from sale of intangible assets 330 136 1,056
Purchase of equity investments (83) (133) (229)
Proceeds from sale of equity investments 205 59 28
Purchase of businesses, net of cash acquired 38 (104) (247) (2,235)
Disposal of businesses 38 225 1,851 –
Investments in associates and joint ventures 20 (9) (8) (99)
Proceeds from disposal of subsidiary and interest in associate 1 429 –
Decrease in liquid investments 1 15 224
Interest received 63 59 30
Dividends from associates and joint ventures 5 18 46
Net cash (outflow)/inflow from investing activities (1,078) 524 (2,631)
Cash flow from financing activities
Proceeds from own shares for employee share options – – 58
Shares acquired by ESOP Trusts (95) (45) (37)
Issue of share capital 33 167 585 356
Purchase of own shares for cancellation or to be held as Treasury shares (238) (1,504) (2,493)
Purchase of non-controlling interests (679) (588) (14)
Increase in long-term loans 1,960 1,913 4,430
Increase in short-term loans – – 1,743
Repayment of short-term loans (1,709) (1,872) (2,559)
Net repayment of obligations under finance leases (23) (31) (35)
Interest paid (707) (749) (779)
Dividends paid to shareholders (3,843) (3,680) (3,814)
Distributions to non-controlling interests (205) (238) (171)
Other financing cash flows (13) (64) (36)
Net cash outflow from financing activities (5,385) (6,273) (3,351)
(Decrease)/increase in cash and bank overdrafts 37 (1,287) 1,473 (1,607)
Cash and bank overdrafts at beginning of year 5,231 3,906 5,605
Exchange adjustments 84 (148) (92)
(Decrease)/increase in cash and bank overdrafts (1,287) 1,473 (1,607)
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year 4,028 5,231 3,906
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year comprise:
Cash and cash equivalents 4,338 5,534 4,184
Overdrafts (310) (303) (278)
4,028 5,231 3,906
GSK Annual Report 2014 139Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
1 Presentation of the financial statements Implementation of new accounting standards
An amendment to IAS 32 ‘Offsetting financial assets and financial
Description of business liabilities’ was issued in December 2011 and was implemented by
GlaxoSmithKline is a major global healthcare group which is GSK from 1 January 2014. The amendment provides additional
engaged in the creation and discovery, development, manufacture guidance on when financial assets and financial liabilities may be
and marketing of pharmaceutical products including vaccines, offset and has no material impact on the current period.
over-the-counter (OTC) medicines and health-related consumer
products. GSK’s principal pharmaceutical products include Financial period
medicines in the following therapeutic areas: respiratory, anti- These financial statements cover the financial year from 1 January
virals, central nervous system, cardiovascular and urogenital, to 31 December 2014, with comparative figures for the financial
metabolic, anti-bacterials, oncology and emesis, dermatology, years from 1 January to 31 December 2013 and, where
rare diseases, immuno-inflammation, vaccines and HIV. appropriate, from 1 January to 31 December 2012.
Compliance with applicable law and IFRS Parent company financial statements
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with The financial statements of the parent company, GlaxoSmithKline
the Companies Act 2006, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and plc, have been prepared in accordance with UK GAAP and with UK
International Accounting Standards (IAS) and International accounting presentation. The company balance sheet is presented
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and related interpretations, on page 213 and the accounting policies are given on page 214.
as adopted by the European Union.
The financial statements are also in compliance with IFRS as 2 Accounting principles and policies
issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
Consolidation
Composition of financial statements The consolidated financial statements include:
The consolidated financial statements are drawn up in Sterling,
• the assets and liabilities, and the results and cash flows,
the functional currency of GlaxoSmithKline plc, and in accordance
of the company and its subsidiaries, including ESOP Trusts
with IFRS accounting presentation. The financial statements
comprise: • the Group’s share of the results and net assets of associates
and joint ventures
• Consolidated income statement
• the Group’s share of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses
• Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
of joint operations.
• Consolidated balance sheet
The financial statements of entities consolidated are made up
• Consolidated statement of changes in equity to 31 December each year.
• Consolidated cash flow statement Entities over which the Group has the power to direct the relevant
activities so as to affect the returns to the Group, generally through
• Notes to the financial statements.
control over the financial and operating policies, are accounted for
Composition of the Group as subsidiaries. Where the Group has the ability to exercise joint
A list of the subsidiary and associated undertakings which, in the control over, and rights to the net assets of, entities, the entities
opinion of the Directors, principally affected the amount of profit are accounted for as joint ventures. Where the Group has the
or the net assets of the Group is given in Note 44, ‘Principal ability to exercise joint control over an arrangement, but has rights
Group companies’. to specified assets and obligations for specified liabilities of the
arrangement, the arrangement is accounted for as a joint
Accounting principles and policies
operation. Where the Group has the ability to exercise significant
The financial statements have been prepared using the historical
influence over entities, they are accounted for as associates.
cost convention modified by the revaluation of certain items, as
The results and assets and liabilities of associates and joint
stated in the accounting policies, and on a going concern basis.
ventures are incorporated into the consolidated financial
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance statements using the equity method of accounting. The
with the Group’s accounting policies approved by the Board Group’s rights to assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses
and described in Note 2, ‘Accounting principles and policies’. of joint operations are included in the consolidated financial
Information on the application of these accounting policies, statements in accordance with those rights and obligations.
including areas of estimation and judgement is given in Note 3,
Interests acquired in entities are consolidated from the date the
‘Key accounting judgements and estimates’. Group acquires control and interests sold are de-consolidated
The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with from the date control ceases.
generally accepted accounting principles requires management
to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported
amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent
assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and
the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the
reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
140 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
2 Accounting principles and policies continued Revenue
Revenue is recognised in the income statement when goods or
Transactions and balances between subsidiaries are eliminated services are supplied or made available to external customers
and no profit before tax is taken on sales between subsidiaries against orders received, title and risk of loss is passed to the
until the products are sold to customers outside the Group. The customer, reliable estimates can be made of relevant deductions
relevant proportion of profits on transactions with joint ventures, and all relevant obligations have been fulfilled, such that the
joint operations and associates is also deferred until the products earnings process is regarded as being complete.
are sold to third parties. Transactions with non-controlling interests
are recorded directly in equity. Deferred tax relief on unrealised Turnover represents net invoice value after the deduction of
intra-Group profit is accounted for only to the extent that it is discounts and allowances given and accruals for estimated future
considered recoverable. rebates and returns. The methodology and assumptions used to
estimate rebates and returns are monitored and adjusted regularly
Goodwill is capitalised as a separate item in the case of in the light of contractual and legal obligations, historical trends,
subsidiaries and as part of the cost of investment in the case past experience and projected market conditions. Market
of joint ventures and associates. Goodwill is denominated conditions are evaluated using wholesaler and other third-party
in the currency of the operation acquired. analyses, market research data and internally generated
Where the cost of acquisition is below the fair value of the information. Value added tax and other sales taxes are excluded
net assets acquired, the difference is recognised directly in from revenue.
the income statement. Where the Group co-promotes a product and the counterparty
Business combinations records the sale, the Group records its share of revenue as
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition co-promotion income within turnover. The nature of co-promotion
accounting method. Identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent activities is such that the Group records no costs of sales.
liabilities acquired are measured at fair value at acquisition date. Pharmaceutical turnover includes co-promotion revenue of
The consideration transferred is measured at fair value and £22 million (2013 – £37 million; 2012 – £234 million). In addition,
includes the fair value of any contingent consideration. Where initial or event-based milestone income (excluding royalty income)
the consideration transferred, together with the non-controlling arising on development or marketing collaborations of the Group’s
interest, exceeds the fair value of the net assets, liabilities and compounds or products with other parties is recognised in
contingent liabilities acquired, the excess is recorded as goodwill. turnover. Milestone income of £57 million is included in turnover
The costs of acquisition are charged to the income statement in (2013 – £78 million).
the period in which they are incurred. Royalty income is recognised on an accruals basis in accordance
Where not all of the equity of a subsidiary is acquired the non- with the terms of the relevant licensing agreements.
controlling interest is recognised either at fair value or at the Expenditure
non-controlling interest’s share of the net assets of the subsidiary, Expenditure is recognised in respect of goods and services
on a case-by-case basis. Changes in the Group’s ownership received when supplied in accordance with contractual terms.
percentage of subsidiaries are accounted for within equity. Provision is made when an obligation exists for a future liability
Foreign currency translation in respect of a past event and where the amount of the obligation
Foreign currency transactions are booked in the functional can be reliably estimated. Manufacturing start-up costs between
currency of the Group company at the exchange rate ruling on validation and the achievement of normal production are expensed
the date of transaction. Foreign currency monetary assets and as incurred. Advertising and promotion expenditure is charged
liabilities are retranslated into the functional currency at rates of to the income statement as incurred. Shipment costs on inter-
exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. Exchange differences company transfers are charged to cost of sales; distribution
are included in the income statement. costs on sales to customers are included in selling, general
and administrative expenditure.
On consolidation, assets and liabilities, including related goodwill,
of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, are Restructuring costs are recognised and provided for, where
translated into Sterling at rates of exchange ruling at the balance appropriate, in respect of the direct expenditure of a business
sheet date. The results and cash flows of overseas subsidiaries, reorganisation where the plans are sufficiently detailed and
associates and joint ventures are translated into Sterling using well advanced, and where appropriate communication to those
average rates of exchange. affected has been undertaken.
Exchange adjustments arising when the opening net assets
and the profits for the year retained by overseas subsidiaries,
associates and joint ventures are translated into Sterling, less
exchange differences arising on related foreign currency
borrowings which hedge the Group’s net investment in these
operations, are taken to a separate component of equity.
When translating into Sterling the assets, liabilities, results and
cash flows of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures
which are reported in currencies of hyper-inflationary economies,
adjustments are made where material to reflect current price levels.
Any loss on net monetary assets is charged to the consolidated
income statement.
GSK Annual Report 2014 141Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
continued
2 Accounting principles and policies continued Employee share plans
Incentives in the form of shares are provided to employees under
Research and development share option and share award schemes.
Research and development expenditure is charged to the income
statement in the period in which it is incurred. Development The fair values of these options and awards are calculated at
expenditure is capitalised when the criteria for recognising an their grant dates using a Black-Scholes option pricing model and
asset are met, usually when a regulatory filing has been made in a charged to the income statement over the relevant vesting periods.
major market and approval is considered highly probable. Property, The Group provides finance to ESOP Trusts to purchase company
plant and equipment used for research and development is shares on the open market to meet the obligation to provide shares
capitalised and depreciated in accordance with the Group’s policy. when employees exercise their options or awards. Costs of
Environmental expenditure running the ESOP Trusts are charged to the income statement.
Environmental expenditure related to existing conditions resulting Shares held by the ESOP Trusts are deducted from other
from past or current operations and from which no current or reserves. A transfer is made between other reserves and retained
future benefit is discernible is charged to the income statement. earnings over the vesting periods of the related share options or
The Group recognises its liability on a site-by-site basis when awards to reflect the ultimate proceeds receivable from employees
it can be reliably estimated. This liability includes the Group’s on exercise.
portion of the total costs and also a portion of other potentially Property, plant and equipment
responsible parties’ costs when it is probable that they will not be Property, plant and equipment (PP&E) is stated at the cost of
able to satisfy their respective shares of the clean-up obligation. purchase or construction less provisions for depreciation and
Recoveries of reimbursements are recorded as assets when impairment. Financing costs are capitalised within the cost of
virtually certain. qualifying assets in construction.
Legal and other disputes Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost less residual value
Provision is made for the anticipated settlement costs of legal of PP&E, excluding freehold land, using the straight-line basis over
or other disputes against the Group where an outflow of resources the expected useful life. Residual values and lives are reviewed,
is considered probable and a reliable estimate can be made of and where appropriate adjusted, annually. The normal expected
the likely outcome. In addition, provision is made for legal or useful lives of the major categories of PP&E are:
other expenses arising from claims received or other disputes.
In respect of product liability claims related to certain products, Freehold buildings 20 to 50 years
there is sufficient history of claims made and settlements to Leasehold land and buildings Lease term or 20 to 50 years
enable management to make a reliable estimate of the provision Plant and machinery 10 to 20 years
required to cover unasserted claims. In certain cases, an incurred Equipment and vehicles 3 to 10 years
but not reported (IBNR) actuarial technique is used to determine
this estimate. On disposal of PP&E, the cost and related accumulated
depreciation and impairments are removed from the financial
The Group may become involved in legal proceedings, in respect statements and the net amount, less any proceeds, is taken to
of which it is not possible to make a reliable estimate of the the income statement.
expected financial effect, if any, that could result from ultimate
Leases
resolution of the proceedings. In these cases, appropriate
disclosure about such cases would be included but no provision Leasing agreements which transfer to the Group substantially
would be made. Costs associated with claims made by the Group all the benefits and risks of ownership of an asset are treated as
against third parties are charged to the income statement as they finance leases, as if the asset had been purchased outright. The
are incurred. assets are included in PP&E or computer software and the capital
elements of the leasing commitments are shown as obligations
Pensions and other post-employment benefits under finance leases. Assets held under finance leases are
The costs of providing pensions under defined benefit schemes depreciated on a basis consistent with similar owned assets or
are calculated using the projected unit credit method and spread the lease term if shorter. The interest element of the lease rental
over the period during which benefit is expected to be derived from is included in the income statement. All other leases are operating
the employees’ services, consistent with the advice of qualified leases and the rental costs are charged to the income statement
actuaries. Pension obligations are measured as the present value on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
of estimated future cash flows discounted at rates reflecting the
Goodwill
yields of high quality corporate bonds. Pension scheme assets
are measured at fair value at the balance sheet date. Goodwill is stated at cost less impairments. Goodwill is deemed
to have an indefinite useful life and is tested for impairment at
The costs of other post-employment liabilities are calculated in least annually.
a similar way to defined benefit pension schemes and spread
over the period during which benefit is expected to be derived Where the fair value of the interest acquired in an entity’s assets,
from the employees’ services, in accordance with the advice of liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the consideration paid,
qualified actuaries. this excess is recognised immediately as a gain in the income
statement.
Actuarial gains and losses and the effect of changes in actuarial
assumptions, are recognised in the statement of comprehensive
income in the year in which they arise.
The Group’s contributions to defined contribution plans are
charged to the income statement as incurred.
142 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
2 Accounting principles and policies continued Available-for-sale investments
Liquid investments and other investments are classified as
Other intangible assets available-for-sale investments and are initially recorded at fair
Intangible assets are stated at cost less provisions for amortisation value plus transaction costs and then remeasured at subsequent
and impairments. reporting dates to fair value. Unrealised gains and losses on
Licences, patents, know-how and marketing rights separately available-for-sale investments are recognised directly in other
acquired or acquired as part of a business combination are comprehensive income. Impairments arising from the significant
amortised over their estimated useful lives, generally not exceeding or prolonged decline in fair value of an equity investment reduce
20 years, using the straight-line basis, from the time they are the carrying amount of the asset directly and are charged to the
available for use. The estimated useful lives for determining the income statement.
amortisation charge take into account patent lives, where On disposal or impairment of the investments, any gains and
applicable, as well as the value obtained from periods of non- losses that have been deferred in other comprehensive income
exclusivity. Asset lives are reviewed, and where appropriate are reclassified to the income statement. Dividends on equity
adjusted, annually. Contingent milestone payments are recognised investments are recognised in the income statement when the
at the point that the contingent event becomes probable. Any Group’s right to receive payment is established. Equity investments
development costs incurred by the Group and associated with are recorded in non-current assets unless they are expected to be
acquired licences, patents, know-how or marketing rights are sold within one year.
written off to the income statement when incurred, unless the
criteria for recognition of an internally generated intangible asset Purchases and sales of equity investments are accounted for on
are met, usually when a regulatory filing has been made in a major the trade date and purchases and sales of other available-for-sale
market and approval is considered highly probable. investments are accounted for on settlement date.
Inventories
Acquired brands are valued independently as part of the fair value
of businesses acquired from third parties where the brand has a Inventories are included in the financial statements at the lower of
value which is substantial and long term and where the brands cost (including raw materials, direct labour, other direct costs and
either are contractual or legal in nature or can be sold separately related production overheads) and net realisable value. Cost is
from the rest of the businesses acquired. Brands are amortised generally determined on a first in, first out basis. Pre-launch
over their estimated useful lives of up to 20 years, except where inventory is held as an asset when there is a high probability of
it is considered that the useful economic life is indefinite. regulatory approval for the product. Before that point a provision
is made against the carrying value to its recoverable amount; the
The costs of acquiring and developing computer software for provision is then reversed at the point when a high probability of
internal use and internet sites for external use are capitalised regulatory approval is determined.
as intangible fixed assets where the software or site supports
Trade receivables
a significant business system and the expenditure leads to the
creation of a durable asset. ERP systems software is amortised Trade receivables are carried at original invoice amount less any
over seven to ten years and other computer software over three provisions for doubtful debts. Provisions are made where there
to five years. is evidence of a risk of non-payment, taking into account ageing,
previous experience and general economic conditions. When a
Impairment of non-current assets trade receivable is determined to be uncollectable it is written off,
The carrying values of all non-current assets are reviewed for firstly against any provision available and then to the income
impairment, either on a stand-alone basis or as part of a larger statement.
cash generating unit, when there is an indication that the assets
might be impaired. Additionally, goodwill, intangible assets with Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously provided for are
indefinite useful lives and intangible assets which are not yet credited to the income statement. Long-term receivables are
available for use are tested for impairment annually. Any provision discounted where the effect is material.
for impairment is charged to the income statement in the year Trade payables
concerned. Trade payables are initially recognised at fair value and then held
Impairments of goodwill are not reversed. Impairment losses on at amortised cost which equates to nominal value. Long-term
other non-current assets are only reversed if there has been a payables are discounted where the effect is material.
change in estimates used to determine recoverable amounts Cash and cash equivalents
and only to the extent that the revised recoverable amounts do Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, current
not exceed the carrying values that would have existed, net of balances with banks and similar institutions and highly liquid
depreciation or amortisation, had no impairments been recognised. investments with maturities of three months or less. They are
Investments in associates, joint ventures and joint operations readily convertible into known amounts of cash and have an
Investments in associates and joint ventures are carried in the insignificant risk of changes in value.
consolidated balance sheet at the Group’s share of their net Borrowings
assets at date of acquisition and of their post-acquisition All borrowings are initially recorded at the amount of proceeds
retained profits or losses together with any goodwill arising received, net of transaction costs. Borrowings are subsequently
on the acquisition. The Group recognises its rights to assets, carried at amortised cost, with the difference between the
liabilities, revenue and expenses of joint operations. proceeds, net of transaction costs, and the amount due on
redemption being recognised as a charge to the income
statement over the period of the relevant borrowing.
GSK Annual Report 2014 143Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
continued
2 Accounting principles and policies continued 3 Key accounting judgements and estimates
Taxation In preparing the financial statements, management is required
Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts of
applying tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses reported in the financial
by the balance sheet date. statements. Actual amounts and results could differ from those
estimates. The following are considered to be the key accounting
Deferred tax is provided in full, on temporary differences arising
judgements and estimates made.
between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying
amounts in the financial statements. Deferred tax assets are Turnover
recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable Revenue is recognised when title and risk of loss is passed to the
profits will be available against which the temporary differences customer, reliable estimates can be made of relevant deductions
can be utilised. Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences and all relevant obligations have been fulfilled, such that the
arising on investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint earnings process is regarded as being complete.
ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary
Gross turnover is reduced by rebates, discounts, allowances
difference can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary
and product returns given or expected to be given, which vary by
difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax is
product arrangements and buying groups. These arrangements
provided using rates of tax that have been enacted or substantively
with purchasing organisations are dependent upon the
enacted by the balance sheet date.
submission of claims some time after the initial recognition of
Derivative financial instruments and hedging the sale. Accruals are made at the time of sale for the estimated
Derivative financial instruments are used to manage exposure to rebates, discounts or allowances payable or returns to be made,
market risks. The principal derivative instruments used by GSK based on available market information and historical experience.
are foreign currency swaps, interest rate swaps, foreign exchange
Because the amounts are estimated they may not fully reflect the
forward contracts and options. The Group does not hold or issue
final outcome, and the amounts are subject to change dependent
derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative
upon, amongst other things, the types of buying group and
purposes.
product sales mix.
Derivative financial instruments are classified as held-for-trading
The level of accrual is reviewed and adjusted regularly in the
and are carried in the balance sheet at fair value. Derivatives
light of contractual and legal obligations, historical trends, past
designated as hedging instruments are classified on inception
experience and projected market conditions. Market conditions
as cash flow hedges, net investment hedges or fair value hedges.
are evaluated using wholesaler and other third-party analyses,
Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow market research data and internally generated information.
hedges are recognised in other comprehensive income to the Future events could cause the assumptions on which the
extent that the hedges are effective. Ineffective portions are accruals are based to change, which could affect the future
recognised in profit or loss immediately. Amounts deferred results of the Group.
in other comprehensive income are reclassified to the income
Taxation
statement when the hedged item affects profit or loss.
Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid,
Net investment hedges are accounted for in a similar way and deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between
to cash flow hedges. the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts,
at the rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by
Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as fair value
the balance sheet date.
hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with
the changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability. Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is
probable that future taxable profits will be available against
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do
which the temporary differences can be utilised, based on
not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately
management’s assumptions relating to the amounts and timing
in the income statement.
of future taxable profits. Factors affecting the tax charge in
Discounting future years are set out in Note 14, ‘Taxation’. A 1% change
Where the time value of money is material, balances are in the Group’s effective tax rate in 2014 would have changed
discounted to current values using appropriate rates of interest. the total tax charge for the year by approximately £30 million.
The unwinding of the discounts is recorded in finance income
The Group has open tax issues with a number of revenue
and finance expense. authorities. Where an outflow of funds is believed to be probable
and a reliable estimate of the outcome of the dispute can be
made, management provides for its best estimate of the liability.
These estimates take into account the specific circumstances
of each dispute and relevant external advice, are inherently
judgemental and could change substantially over time as new
facts emerge and each dispute progresses. GSK continues to
believe that it has made adequate provision for the liabilities likely
to arise from open assessments. Where open issues exist the
ultimate liability for such matters may vary from the amounts
provided and is dependent upon the outcome of negotiations with
the relevant tax authorities or, if necessary, litigation proceedings.
144 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
3 Key accounting judgements and estimates Business combinations
Any contingent consideration included in the consideration
continued
payable for a business combination is recorded at fair value
Legal and other disputes at the date of acquisition. These fair values are generally based
The Group provides for anticipated settlement costs where on risk-adjusted future cash flows discounted using appropriate
an outflow of resources is considered probable and a reliable interest rates. The fair values are reviewed on a regular basis,
estimate may be made of the likely outcome of the dispute and at least annually, and any changes are reflected in the income
legal and other expenses arising from claims against the Group. statement.
These estimates take into account the specific circumstances
At 31 December 2014, the liability for contingent consideration
of each dispute and relevant external advice, are inherently
amounted to £1,724 million (see Note 38, ‘Acquisitions and
judgmental and could change substantially over time as new
disposals’). Of this amount, £1,684 million arose on the acquisition
facts emerge and each dispute progresses. Details of the status
of the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture in 2012.
and various uncertainties involved in the significant unresolved
disputes are set out in Note 45, ‘Legal proceedings’. The assumptions relating to future cash flows and discount rates
are based on business forecasts and are therefore inherently
The company’s Directors, having taken legal advice, have
judgemental. Future events could cause the assumptions used
established provisions after taking into account the relevant
in these projections to change with a consequent adverse effect
facts and circumstances of each matter and in accordance with
on the future results of the Group.
accounting requirements. In respect of product liability claims
related to certain products there is sufficient history of claims Pensions and other post-employment benefits
made and settlements to enable management to make a reliable The costs of providing pensions and other post-employment
estimate of the provision required to cover unasserted claims. benefits are charged to the income statement in accordance with
The Group may become involved in legal proceedings, in respect IAS 19 ‘Employee benefits’ over the period during which benefit
of which it is not possible to make a reliable estimate of the is derived from the employee’s services. The costs are assessed
expected financial effect, if any, that will result from ultimate on the basis of assumptions selected by management. These
resolution of the proceedings. In these cases, appropriate assumptions include future earnings and pension increases,
disclosure about such cases would be included, but no provision discount rates, expected long-term rates of return on assets and
would be made and no contingent liability can be quantified. mortality rates, and are disclosed in Note 28, ‘Pensions and other
At 31 December 2014 provisions for legal and other disputes post-employment benefits’. Where a surplus on a defined benefit
amounted to £0.5 billion (2013 – £0.6 billion). scheme arises, or there is potential for a surplus to arise from
committed future contributions, the rights of the Trustees to
The ultimate liability for legal claims may vary from the amounts
prevent the Group obtaining a refund of that surplus in the future
provided and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation
are considered in determining whether it is necessary to restrict
proceedings, investigations and possible settlement negotiations. the amount of the surplus that is recognised.
The position could change over time and, therefore, there can be
no assurance that any losses that result from the outcome of any The expected long-term rates of return on bonds are determined
legal proceedings will not exceed the amount of the provisions based on the portfolio mix of index-linked, government and
reported in the Group’s financial statements by a material amount. corporate bonds. An equity risk premium is added to this for
equities.
Goodwill and other intangible asset impairments
Goodwill is deemed to have an indefinite life and so is not Discount rates are derived from AA rated corporate bond yields
amortised. Annual impairment tests of the cash generating except in countries where there is no deep market in corporate
units to which goodwill is allocated are performed. Impairment bonds where government bond yields are used. Sensitivity
tests are based on established market multiples or risk-adjusted analysis is provided in Note 28, ‘Pensions and other post-
future cash flows discounted using appropriate interest rates. employment benefits’, but a 0.25% reduction in the discount
The assumptions used in these impairment tests are set out rate would lead to an increase in the net pension deficit of
in Note 18, ‘Goodwill’. approximately £645 million and an increase in the annual pension
cost of approximately £32 million. The selection of different
In each case the valuations indicate sufficient headroom such
assumptions could affect the future results of the Group.
that a reasonably possible change to key assumptions is unlikely
to result in an impairment of the related goodwill.
Impairment tests on other intangible assets are undertaken if
events occur which call into question the carrying values of the
assets. Where brands and other intangible assets which are not
yet available for use are not amortised, they are subject to annual
impairment tests. Valuations for impairment tests are based on
established market multiples or risk-adjusted future cash flows
over the estimated useful life of the asset, where limited,
discounted using appropriate interest rates as set out in
Note 19, ‘Other intangible assets’.
The assumptions relating to future cash flows, estimated useful
lives and discount rates are based on business forecasts and are
therefore inherently judgemental. Future events could cause the
assumptions used in these impairment tests to change with a
consequent adverse effect on the future results of the Group.
GSK Annual Report 2014 145Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
continued
4 New accounting requirements 5 Exchange rates
The following new and amended accounting standards have been The Group uses the average of exchange rates prevailing during
issued by the IASB and are likely to affect future Annual Reports. the period to translate the results and cash flows of overseas
With the exception of the amendment to IAS 19, the impact on subsidiaries, joint ventures and associated undertakings into
the results and financial position of the Group is currently being Sterling and period end rates to translate the net assets of
assessed. those undertakings. The currencies which most influence
these translations and the relevant exchange rates were:
An amendment to IAS 19 ‘Defined benefit plans: Employee
contribution’ was issued in November 2013 and will be 2014 2013 2012
implemented by the Group from 1 January 2015. The amendment Average rates:
provides additional guidance on the treatment of contributions to US$/£ 1.65 1.57 1.59
defined benefit plans from employees and third parties and is not
Euro/£ 1.24 1.18 1.23
expected to have a material impact on the results or financial
Yen/£ 175 153 127
position of the Group.
An amendment to IFRS 10 ‘Consolidated financial statements’ Period end rates:
and IAS 28 ‘Investments in associates and joint ventures’ was US$/£ 1.56 1.66 1.63
issued in September 2014 and will be implemented by the Group Euro/£ 1.29 1.20 1.23
from 1 January 2016. The amendment requires recognition of the Yen/£ 187 174 141
full gain or loss arising on the sale or contribution of a business to
an associate or joint venture, but only the investor’s share of the
gain or loss if assets that do not constitute a business are sold or
contributed to an associate or joint venture.
An amendment to IFRS 11 ‘Joint arrangements’ was issued in May
2014 and will be implemented by the Group from 1 January 2016.
The amendment requires the acquisition of a joint operation that
meets the definition of a business to be accounted for in
accordance with IFRS 3 ‘Business combinations’.
IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’ was issued in
May 2014 and will be implemented by the Group from 1 January
2017. The Standard provides a single, principles-based approach
to the recognition of revenue from all contracts with customers.
It focuses on the identification of performance obligations in a
contract and requires revenue to be recognised when or as those
performance obligations are satisfied.
IFRS 9 ‘Financial instruments’ was issued in its final form in July
2014 and will be implemented by the Group from 1 January 2018.
The Standard will replace the majority of IAS 39 and covers the
classification, measurement and derecognition of financial assets
and financial liabilities, impairment of financial assets and provides
a new hedge accounting model.
146 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
6 Segment information
The Group’s operating segments are reported based on the financial information provided to the Chief Executive Officer and the
responsibilities of the Corporate Executive Team (CET). Individual members of the CET are responsible for each geographic segment
of the Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines business, ViiV Healthcare, Established Products and the Consumer Healthcare business as a
whole, respectively. The Established Products segment has been created and certain product reclassifications, principally the OTC
dermatology brands acquired with the Stiefel business, have been made between Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines segments and the
Consumer Healthcare segment, with effect from 1 January 2014. Comparative information has been restated accordingly. In addition,
the 2013 and 2012 segment turnover and profit have been restated to exclude the divestments completed in 2013.
R&D investment is essential for the sustainability of the pharmaceutical businesses. However, for segment reporting, the US, Europe,
Emerging Markets, Japan and Established Products Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines segment profits exclude allocations of globally
funded R&D as well as central costs, principally corporate functions and unallocated manufacturing costs. ViiV Healthcare and
Consumer Healthcare operating profits include R&D costs. The Group’s management reporting process allocates intra-Group profit
on a product sale to the market in which that sale is recorded, and the profit analyses below have been presented on that basis.
Other trading and unallocated pharmaceuticals and vaccines includes Canada, Puerto Rico, Australasia, central vaccine tender sales
and contract manufacturing sales, together with costs such as vaccines R&D, central dermatology costs and central manufacturing
costs not attributed to other segments.
Pharmaceuticals R&D is reported as a separate segment. Corporate and other unallocated costs represent the costs of corporate
functions.
Working capital in relation to Established Products is managed within the other Pharmaceutical and Vaccines segments.
2013 2012
2014 (restated) (restated)
Turnover by segment £m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines
USA 4,980 5,817 5,508
Europe 4,035 4,226 3,956
Emerging Markets 3,203 3,370 3,309
Japan 937 1,058 1,203
ViiV Healthcare 1,498 1,386 1,374
Established Products 3,011 3,874 4,351
Other trading and unallocated pharmaceuticals 1,006 1,115 1,035
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines turnover 18,670 20,846 20,736
Consumer Healthcare turnover 4,336 4,756 4,747
Segment turnover excluding divestments 23,006 25,602 25,483
Divestments completed in 2013 – 903 948
Turnover including divestments 23,006 26,505 26,431
2013 2012
2014 (restated) (restated)
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines turnover by therapeutic area £m £m £m
Respiratory 6,181 7,289 7,044
Oncology and emesis 1,202 969 798
Cardiovascular, metabolic and urology 965 1,073 1,144
Immuno-inflammation 214 161 70
Other pharmaceuticals 2,407 2,674 2,630
Established Products 3,011 3,874 4,351
Vaccines 3,192 3,420 3,325
ViiV Healthcare (HIV) 1,498 1,386 1,374
18,670 20,846 20,736
GSK Annual Report 2014 147Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
continued
6 Segment information continued
2013 2012
2014 (restated) (restated)
Consumer Healthcare turnover by category £m £m £m
Wellness 1,596 1,865 1,991
Oral care 1,797 1,884 1,806
Nutrition 633 627 590
Skin health 310 380 360
4,336 4,756 4,747
During 2014, US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines and the US element of ViiV Healthcare and Established Products made sales to three
wholesalers of approximately £1,478 million (2013 – £2,071 million; 2012 – £2,303 million), £2,315 million (2013 – £2,658 million;
2012 – £2,447 million) and £1,627 million (2013 – £1,695 million; 2012 – £1,318 million) respectively, after allocating final-customer
discounts to the wholesalers.
2013 2012
Segment profit 2014 (restated) (restated)
£m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines
USA 3,173 3,955 3,706
Europe 2,205 2,277 2,088
Emerging Markets 993 986 1,054
Japan 466 568 657
ViiV Healthcare 977 885 849
Established Products 1,793 2,352 2,521
Pharmaceuticals R&D (2,708) (2,823) (2,778)
Other trading and unallocated costs (402) (631) (488)
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines segment profit 6,497 7,569 7,609
Consumer Healthcare segment profit 657 829 856
Segment profit 7,154 8,398 8,465
Corporate and other unallocated costs (560) (627) (491)
Other reconciling items between segment profit and operating profit (2,997) (743) (674)
Operating profit 3,597 7,028 7,300
Finance income 68 61 79
Finance costs (727) (767) (808)
Profit on disposal of interest in associates – 282 –
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures 30 43 29
Profit before taxation 2,968 6,647 6,600
Taxation (137) (1,019) (1,922)
Profit after taxation for the year 2,831 5,628 4,678
Other reconciling items between segment profit and operating profit comprise items not specifically allocated to segment profit. These
include impairment and amortisation of intangible assets, major restructuring charges, legal charges and expenses on the settlement of
litigation and government investigations and certain other items related to major acquisition and disposal activity.
2013 2012
Depreciation and amortisation by segment 2014 (restated) (restated)
£m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines
USA 9 14 16
Europe 16 21 24
Emerging Markets 27 30 28
Japan 5 6 7
ViiV Healthcare 4 2 2
Established Products – – –
Pharmaceuticals R&D 161 171 178
Other trading and unallocated costs 465 436 478
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines depreciation and amortisation 687 680 733
Consumer Healthcare depreciation and amortisation 105 74 127
Segment depreciation and amortisation 792 754 860
Corporate and other unallocated depreciation and amortisation 112 109 108
Other reconciling items between segment depreciation and amortisation and
total depreciation and amortisation 580 551 477
Total depreciation and amortisation 1,484 1,414 1,445
148 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
6 Segment information continued
2013 2012
PP&E, intangible asset and goodwill impairment by segment 2014 (restated) (restated)
£m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines
USA 1 1 1
Europe 3 2 1
Emerging Markets – 1 1
Japan – – –
ViiV Healthcare 2 – –
Established Products – – –
Pharmaceuticals R&D 24 22 2
Other trading and unallocated costs 49 33 30
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines impairment 79 59 35
Consumer Healthcare impairment 16 11 1
Segment impairment 95 70 36
Corporate and other unallocated impairment 3 – 18
Other reconciling items between segment impairment and total impairment 153 799 700
Total impairment 251 869 754
2013 2012
PP&E and intangible asset impairment reversals by segment 2014 (restated) (restated)
£m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines
USA (1) – –
Europe (1) (2) –
Emerging Markets – – –
Japan – – –
ViiV Healthcare – – –
Established Products – – –
Pharmaceuticals R&D (23) (2) (4)
Other trading and unallocated costs (37) (16) (60)
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines impairment reversals (62) (20) (64)
Consumer Healthcare impairment reversals (14) (4) –
Segment impairment reversals (76) (24) (64)
Corporate and other unallocated impairment reversals – – (3)
Other reconciling items between segment impairment reversals and total impairment reversals – – (59)
Total impairment reversals (76) (24) (126)
GSK Annual Report 2014 149Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
continued
6 Segment information continued
2013
2014 (restated)
Net assets by segment £m £m
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines
USA (86) 43
Europe 532 779
Emerging Markets 1,744 2,097
Japan 268 362
ViiV Healthcare 301 1,267
Established Products 43 114
Pharmaceuticals R&D 542 590
Other trading and unallocated assets 13,396 14,578
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines net operating assets 16,740 19,830
Consumer Healthcare net operating assets 3,036 2,856
Segment net operating assets 19,776 22,686
Corporate and other unallocated net operating assets (3,128) (2,647)
Net operating assets 16,648 20,039
Net debt (14,377) (12,645)
Investments in associates and joint ventures 340 323
Derivative financial instruments (267) 26
Current and deferred taxation 1,436 68
Assets held for sale 1,156 1
Net assets 4,936 7,812
The US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines segment was in a net liability position as at 31 December 2014 principally as a result
of an accrual of £115 million for an additional year of the US Branded Prescription Drug fee.
The other trading and unallocated Pharmaceuticals and Consumer Healthcare segments include assets for the centrally managed
Pharmaceutical, Vaccine and Consumer Healthcare manufacturing operations, the depreciation on which, totalling £594 million
(2013 – £521 million; 2012 – £601 million) is recovered through the standard cost of product charged to businesses.
Geographical information
The UK is regarded as being the Group’s country of domicile.
2014 2013 2012
Turnover by location of customer £m £m £m
UK 1,116 1,541 1,525
USA 7,359 8,730 8,476
Rest of World 14,531 16,234 16,430
External turnover 23,006 26,505 26,431
2014 2013 2012
Turnover by location of subsidiary £m £m £m
UK 3,518 4,174 3,738
USA 10,768 11,684 11,250
Rest of World 17,227 18,515 19,719
Turnover including inter-segment turnover 31,513 34,373 34,707
UK 1,994 1,772 1,508
USA 3,432 3,026 2,886
Rest of World 3,081 3,070 3,882
Inter-segment turnover 8,507 7,868 8,276
UK 1,524 2,402 2,230
USA 7,336 8,658 8,364
Rest of World 14,146 15,445 15,837
External turnover 23,006 26,505 26,431
150 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
6 Segment information continued
2014 2013 2012
Operating profit by location £m £m £m
UK 414 568 1,454
USA 1,375 3,063 1,391
Rest of World 1,808 3,397 4,455
Total operating profit 3,597 7,028 7,300
2014 2013
Net operating assets by location £m £m
UK 4,597 6,314
USA 3,654 3,975
Rest of World 8,397 9,750
Net operating assets 16,648 20,039
2014 2013
Non-current assets by location £m £m
UK 6,688 6,565
USA 6,512 6,675
Rest of World 8,431 9,607
Non-current assets 21,631 22,847
Non-current assets by location excludes amounts relating to other investments, deferred tax assets, derivative financial instruments,
pension assets, amounts receivable under insurance contracts and certain other non-current receivables.
7 Other operating income
2014 2013 2012
£m £m £m
Impairment of equity investments (25) (70) (26)
Disposal of equity investments 155 38 19
Disposal of businesses and assets 244 1,413 661
Gain on settlement of pre-existing collaborations on acquisition of HGS – – 233
Gain on acquisition of the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture – – 349
Fair value remeasurements on contingent consideration
recognised in business combinations (770) (251) (13)
Fair value adjustments on derivative financial instruments (313) 12 3
Other income/(expense) 9 (18) 30
(700) 1,124 1,256
Disposal of businesses and other assets in 2014 included a gain on disposal of Treximet and in 2013 included the gain on disposal of
the Lucozade and Ribena business to Suntory of £1,057 million and the gain on the sale of the worldwide intellectual property rights
(excluding certain emerging markets) of the anti-coagulant products business to Aspen Group of £274 million. Fair value remeasurements
on contingent consideration recognised in business combinations included £768 million related to the contingent consideration payable
for the acquisition of the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture.
Fair value adjustments on derivative financial instruments related to foreign exchange forward contracts and options taken out to
hedge against foreign currency movements when sales and purchases are denominated in foreign currencies (see Note 41, ‘Financial
instruments and related disclosures’). In 2014 this included an unrealised loss of £299 million arising from the loss position of a number
of forward exchange contracts entered into following announcement of the proposed Novartis transaction to protect the Sterling value
of the net US Dollar proceeds due to the Group on completion of the transaction. If these contracts remain in a loss position on maturity,
that loss will partly offset the gain in the expected Sterling value of the proceeds that will be received by the Group as a result of
favourable exchange movements since the inception of the forward contracts. If, on maturity, the contracts are in a gain position,
the gains will partly offset losses in the Sterling value of the proceeds that will be received by the Group as a result of unfavourable
exchange movements since the inception of the forward contracts.
GSK Annual Report 2014 151Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
continued
8 Operating profit
2014 2013 2012
The following items have been included in operating profit: £m £m £m
Employee costs (Note 9) 7,520 7,591 6,935
Advertising 671 808 839
Distribution costs 325 371 386
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 780 732 871
Impairment of property, plant and equipment, net of reversals 18 100 (68)
Amortisation of intangible assets 704 682 574
Impairment of intangible assets and goodwill, net of reversals 157 745 696
Net foreign exchange (gains)/losses (18) 41 61
Inventories:
Cost of inventories included in cost of sales 6,334 7,290 6,851
Write-down of inventories 389 338 302
Reversal of prior year write-down of inventories (169) (43) (61)
Operating lease rentals:
Minimum lease payments 133 127 156
Contingent rents 8 12 14
Sub-lease payments 5 2 3
Fees payable to the company’s auditor and its associates in relation to the Group (see below) 33.2 25.7 23.2
The reversals of prior year write-downs of inventories principally arise from the reassessment of usage or demand expectations prior to
inventory expiration.
Included within operating profit are major restructuring charges of £750 million (2013 – £517 million; 2012 – £557 million), see Note 10,
‘Major restructuring costs’.
2014 2013 2012
Fees payable to the company’s auditor and its associates: £m £m £m
Audit of parent company and consolidated financial statements 4.9 5.1 4.0
Audit of the company’s subsidiaries 10.7 11.0 10.1
Audit-related assurance services, including attestation under s.404
of Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 4.0 3.9 3.3
Audit and audit-related services 19.6 20.0 17.4
Taxation compliance 0.6 0.6 0.4
Taxation advice 4.5 3.3 3.2
Other assurance services 8.0 1.5 1.7
All other services 0.5 0.3 0.5
33.2 25.7 23.2
In addition to the above, fees paid in respect of the GSK pension schemes were:
2014 2013 2012
£m £m £m
Audit 0.3 0.4 0.6
Other services – – –
152 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
9 Employee costs
2014 2013 2012
£m £m £m
Wages and salaries 5,879 6,262 5,846
Social security costs 639 685 643
Pension and other post-employment costs, including augmentations (Note 28) 403 170 95
Cost of share-based incentive plans 346 319 220
Severance and other costs from integration and restructuring activities 253 155 131
7,520 7,591 6,935
The Group provides benefits to employees, commensurate with local practice in individual countries, including, in some markets,
healthcare insurance, subsidised car schemes and personal life assurance.
The charge for pension and other post-employment costs in 2013 includes a credit of £279 million following a restructuring of US
post-retirement medical obligations. The charge in 2012 includes a credit of £395 million following a change in policy relating to
discretionary pension increases under certain UK pension schemes and the introduction of a limit on future pensionable pay increases
in all UK schemes. These are set out in Note 28, ‘Pensions and other post-employment benefits’.
The cost of share-based incentive plans is analysed as follows:
2014 2013 2012
£m £m £m
Share Value Plan 302 243 156
Performance Share Plan 20 47 45
Share option plans 3 4 11
Other plans 21 25 8
346 319 220
The average number of persons employed by the Group (including Directors) during the year was:
2014 2013 2012
Number Number Number
Manufacturing 31,726 31,586 31,033
Selling, general and administration 54,618 55,660 54,803
Research and development 12,358 12,571 12,845
98,702 99,817 98,681
The average number of Group employees excludes temporary and contract staff. The numbers of Group employees at the end of each
financial year are given in the financial record on page 224. The average number of persons employed by GlaxoSmithKline plc in 2014
was nil (2013 – nil).
The compensation of the Directors and Senior Management (members of the CET) in aggregate, was as follows:
2014 2013 2012
£m £m £m
Wages and salaries 19 23 20
Social security costs 3 3 2
Pension and other post-employment costs 3 3 3
Cost of share-based incentive plans 13 13 13
38 42 38
GSK Annual Report 2014 153Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
continued
10 Major restructuring costs
Major restructuring costs charged in arriving at operating profit include restructuring costs arising under the Operational Excellence
programme, initiated in 2007 and expanded in 2009, 2010 and 2011, under the Major Change programme initiated in 2013, under
the Pharmaceuticals Restructuring Programme announced in October 2014 and following the proposed Novartis transaction,
announced in 2014.
Of the total restructuring costs of £750 million incurred in 2014, £101 million was incurred under the Operational Excellence
programme, £334 million under the Major Change programme, £243 million under the Pharmaceuticals Restructuring Programme and
£67 million on Pre-Integration Planning on the proposed Novartis transaction in the following areas:
• Restructuring of the Pharmaceuticals business in North America, Emerging Markets and Europe leading to staff reductions in sales
force and administration.
• Projects to rationalise Core Business Services and to simplify or eliminate processes leading to staff reduction in support functions.
• Transformation of the Manufacturing and Vaccines businesses to deliver a step change in quality, cost and productivity.
• The rationalisation of the Consumer Healthcare business.
The remaining costs of £5 million were incurred under the restructuring programmes related to the integration of the Stiefel and HGS
(Human Genome Sciences Inc.) businesses.
The analysis of the costs charged to operating profit under these programmes is as follows:
2014 2013 2012
£m £m £m
Increase in provision for major restructuring programmes (see Note 29) (267) (179) (268)
Amount of provision reversed unused (see Note 29) 4 11 12
Impairment losses recognised – (60) (7)
Other non-cash charges (15) (5) (18)
Other cash costs (472) (284) (276)
(750) (517) (557)
Asset impairments of £nil (2013 – £60 million; 2012 – £7 million) and other non-cash charges totalling £15 million (2013 – £5 million;
2012 – £18 million) are non-cash items, principally accelerated depreciation where asset lives have been shortened as a result of the
major restructuring programmes. All other charges have been or will be settled in cash and include the termination of leases, site closure
costs, consultancy and project management fees.
11 Finance income
2014 2013 2012
£m £m £m
Interest income arising from:
cash and cash equivalents 56 55 59
available-for-sale investments 1 2 5
loans and receivables 9 2 9
Realised gains on liquid investments – – 4
Fair value adjustments on derivatives at fair value through profit or loss 2 2 2
68 61 79
All derivatives at fair value through profit or loss other than designated and effective hedging instruments (see Note 41, ‘Financial
instruments and related disclosures’) are classified as held-for-trading financial instruments under IAS 39.
154 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
12 Finance expense
2014 2013 2012
£m £m £m
Interest expense arising on:
financial liabilities at amortised cost (665) (708) (731)
derivatives at fair value through profit or loss (23) (18) (14)
Fair value hedges:
fair value movements on derivatives designated as hedging instruments 10 (37) (28)
fair value adjustments on hedged items (5) 36 27
Fair value movements on other derivatives at fair value through profit or loss (15) (2) (13)
Unwinding of discounts on provisions (15) (14) (15)
Movements on amounts owed to non-controlling interests – (2) (10)
Other finance expense (14) (22) (24)
(727) (767) (808)
All derivatives at fair value through profit or loss other than designated and effective hedging instruments (see Note 41, ‘Financial
instruments and related disclosures’) are classified as held-for-trading financial instruments under IAS 39. Interest expense arising on
derivatives at fair value through profit or loss relates to swap interest expense.
13 Associates and joint ventures
At 31 December 2014, the Group held one significant associate, Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Limited (Aspen). Summarised income
statement information in respect of Aspen is set out below:
2014 2013 2012
£m £m £m
Turnover 1,823 1,485 1,280
Profit after taxation 313 247 313
Comprehensive income 148 192 163
Total comprehensive income 461 439 476
The results of Aspen included in the summarised income statement information above represent the estimated earnings of the Aspen
group in the year, adjusted for transactions between GSK and Aspen.
Amounts relating to joint ventures principally arise from a 50% interest in one joint venture, Japan Vaccine Co., Ltd., with Daiichi Sankyo Co.,
Ltd. Aggregated financial information in respect of other associated undertakings and joint ventures is set out below:
2014 2013 2012
£m £m £m
Associates:
Share of turnover 24 26 27
Share of after tax (losses)/profits (1) – 1
Share of other comprehensive income – – –
Share of total comprehensive income (1) – 1
Joint ventures:
Share of turnover 163 199 203
Share of after tax losses (8) (2) (30)
Share of other comprehensive income – – –
Share of total comprehensive income (8) (2) (30)
Sales to joint ventures and associates 85 103 124
GSK Annual Report 2014 155Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
continued
14 Taxation
2014 2013 2012
Taxation charge based on profits for the year £m £m £m
UK current taxation (251) 265 170
Overseas current taxation 993 1,284 1,510
Total current taxation 742 1,549 1,680
Total deferred taxation (605) (530) 242
137 1,019 1,922
The recognition of a deferred tax asset on tax losses expected to be used on completion of the Novartis transaction is included in the net
deferred tax credit. In 2013 the deferred tax credit arose predominantly as a result of non cash items related to the continuing
restructuring of our supply chain and intellectual property ownership.
The following table reconciles the tax charge calculated at the UK statutory rate on the Group profit before tax with the actual tax charge
for the year. Information for 2013 and 2012 has been re-analysed and is presented on a comparable basis.
2014 2014 2013 2013 2012 2012
Reconciliation of taxation on Group profits £m % £m % £m %
Profit before tax 2,968 6,647 6,600
UK statutory rate of taxation 638 21.5 1,545 23.3 1,617 24.5
Differences in overseas taxation rates 406 13.7 196 2.9 278 4.2
Benefit of intellectual property incentives (323) (10.9) (189) (2.8) (158) (2.4)
R&D credits (72) (2.4) (88) (1.3) (73) (1.1)
Inter-company inventory profit (27) (0.9) (121) (1.8) 73 1.1
Impact of share-based payments 31 1.1 (2) – – –
Benefit of previously unrecognised losses (205) (6.9) (18) (0.3) (40) (0.6)
Permanent differences on disposals and acquisitions 23 0.8 (227) (3.4) (9) (0.1)
Other permanent differences 264 8.8 301 4.4 (103) (1.6)
Re-assessments of prior year estimates (617) (20.8) (197) (3.0) (145) (2.2)
Disposal of associate – – (67) (1.0) – –
Tax on unremitted earnings 19 0.6 20 0.3 26 0.4
Deferred tax and other adjustments on restructuring – – (134) (2.0) 456 6.9
Tax charge / tax rate 137 4.6 1,019 15.3 1,922 29.1
The Group operates in countries where the tax rate differs from the UK tax rate and the taxable profits earned and tax rates in those
countries vary from year to year. In 2013, a £234 million deferred tax charge related to the unwinding of deferred profit in inventory
arising from reorganisations of intellectual property ownership and supply chain restructuring was presented within differences in
overseas tax rates. This impact has now been presented as restructuring for 2013 as this better reflects the nature of this item. The
Group qualifies for intellectual property incentives such as patent box regimes in a number of countries. The permanent differences
associated with disposals and acquisitions have been presented separately and in 2013 included the benefit of lower tax rates applied
to the disposal of the Lucozade and Ribena business. The recognition of the deferred tax asset on tax losses expected to be used on
completion of the Novartis transaction is shown in the benefit of previously unrecognised losses. Other permanent differences include
non tax deductible legal settlements. Re-assessments of prior year estimates include a benefit of £478 million from the resolution of
a number of tax matters in various countries.
Future tax charges may be affected by factors such as acquisitions, disposals, restructurings, the location of research and development
activity, tax regime reforms, and agreements with tax authorities.
2014 2013 2012
Tax on items charged to equity and statement of comprehensive income £m £m £m
Current taxation
Share-based payments 55 31 34
55 31 34
Deferred taxation
Share-based payments (59) 42 (25)
Defined benefit plans 262 (286) 193
Exchange movements (2) – –
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges (1) 1 –
Fair value movements on available-for-sale investments (20) (22) –
180 (265) 168
Total credit/(charge) to equity and statement of comprehensive income 235 (234) 202
All of the above items have been charged to the statement of comprehensive income except for tax on share based payments.
156 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
14 Taxation continued
Issues relating to taxation
The integrated nature of the Group’s worldwide operations involves significant investment in research and strategic manufacture at a
limited number of locations, with consequential cross-border supply routes into numerous end-markets. This gives rise to complexity and
delay in negotiations with revenue authorities as to the profits on which individual Group companies are liable to tax. Resolution of such
issues is an ongoing requirement for GSK.
The Group continues to believe that it has made adequate provision for the liabilities likely to arise from periods which are open and
not yet agreed by tax authorities. The ultimate liability for such matters may vary from the amounts provided and is dependent upon the
outcome of agreements with relevant tax authorities or litigation where appropriate.
The aggregate amount of unremitted profits at the balance sheet date was approximately £20 billion (2013 – £14 billion). UK legislation
relating to company distributions provides for exemption from tax for most repatriated profits, subject to certain exceptions. Provision
for deferred tax liabilities of £147 million (2013 – £129 million) has been made in respect of withholding taxation that would arise on
the distribution of profits by certain overseas subsidiaries. The unprovided deferred tax on unremitted earnings at 31 December 2014
is estimated to be £600 million (2013 – £500 million), which relates to taxes payable on repatriation levied by overseas tax jurisdictions.
No further provision is made on the grounds that the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the remaining temporary
differences and it is probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities
Pensions & Share Other
Accelerated other post option net
capital Contingent Intra-group employment Tax and award temporary
allowances Intangibles consideration profit benefits losses schemes differences Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2014 (432) (1,437) 270 641 778 112 189 1,270 1,391
Exchange adjustments 12 (18) – 19 21 4 6 23 67
(Charge)/credit to income statement (26) 399 134 24 8 299 (12) (221) 605
(Charge)/credit to equity – – – – – – (59) – (59)
Credit/(charge) to statement of
comprehensive income – – – – 262 – – (23) 239
At 31 December 2014 (446) (1,056) 404 684 1,069 415 124 1,049 2,243
Recognised tax losses comprises £205 million (2013 – £nil) capital losses and £210 million (2013 – £112 million) trading losses.
Other net temporary differences include accrued expenses for which a tax deduction is only available on a paid basis.
After offsetting deferred tax assets and liabilities where appropriate within territories, the net deferred tax asset comprises:
2014 2013
£m £m
Deferred tax assets 2,688 2,084
Deferred tax liabilities (445) (693)
2,243 1,391
2014 2013
Unrecognised tax losses £m £m
Trading losses expiring:
Within 10 years 186 131
More than 10 years 723 680
Available indefinitely – 3,908
At 31 December 909 4,719
Capital losses 2,210 3,180
As 31 December 2,210 3,180
Deferred tax assets are recognised where it is probable that future taxable profit will be available to utilise losses.
GSK Annual Report 2014 157Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
continued
15 Earnings per share
2014 2013 2012
pence pence pence
Basic earnings per share 57.3 112.5 91.6
Diluted earnings per share 56.7 110.5 90.2
Basic earnings per share has been calculated by dividing the profit attributable to shareholders by the weighted average number of
shares in issue during the period after deducting shares held by the ESOP Trusts and Treasury shares. The trustees have waived their
rights to dividends on the shares held by the ESOP Trusts.
Diluted earnings per share has been calculated after adjusting the weighted average number of shares used in the basic calculation
to assume the conversion of all potentially dilutive shares. A potentially dilutive share forms part of the employee share schemes where
its exercise price is below the average market price of GSK shares during the period and any performance conditions attaching to the
scheme have been met at the balance sheet date.
The numbers of shares used in calculating basic and diluted earnings per share are reconciled below.
2014 2013 2012 Weighted average number of shares in issue millions millions millions
Basic 4,808 4,831 4,912
Dilution for share options and awards 57 88 77
Diluted 4,865 4,919 4,989
16 Dividends
2014 2013 2012
Dividend Total Dividend Total Dividend Total
per share dividend per share dividend per share dividend
Paid/payable (pence) £m Paid/payable (pence) £m Paid/payable (pence) £m
First interim 10 July 2014 19 916 11 July 2013 18 878 5 July 2012 17 846
Second interim 2 October 2014 19 918 3 October 2013 18 864 4 October 2012 17 830
Third interim 8 January 2015 19 924 9 January 2014 19 910 3 January 2013 18 870
Fourth interim 9 April 2015 23 1,107 10 April 2014 23 1,099 11 April 2013 22 1,068
Total 80 3,865 78 3,751 74 3,614
Under IFRS interim dividends are only recognised in the financial statements when paid and not when declared. GSK normally pays a
dividend two quarters after the quarter to which it relates and one quarter after it is declared. The 2014 financial statements recognise those
dividends paid in 2014, namely the third and fourth interim dividends for 2013, and the first and second interim dividends for 2014.
The amounts recognised in each year are as follows:
2014 2013 2012
£m £m £m
Dividends to shareholders 3,843 3,680 3,814
17 Property, plant and equipment
Plant,
Land and equipment Assets in
buildings and vehicles construction Total
£m £m £m £m
Cost at 1 January 2013 6,632 10,169 1,941 18,742
Exchange adjustments (68) (105) (29) (202)
Additions 57 230 948 1,235
Additions through business combinations 12 11 – 23
Capitalised borrowing costs – – 16 16
Disposals and write-offs (77) (516) (2) (595)
Reclassifications 107 233 (340) –
Transfer to assets held for sale (53) (296) (17) (366)
Cost at 31 December 2013 6,610 9,726 2,517 18,853
Exchange adjustments (104) (142) (3) (249)
Additions 38 252 971 1,261
Capitalised borrowing costs – – 16 16
Disposals and write-offs (62) (322) (3) (387)
Reclassifications 73 344 (429) (12)
Transfer to assets held for sale (91) (36) – (127)
Cost at 31 December 2014 6,464 9,822 3,069 19,355
158 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
17 Property, plant and equipment continued
Plant,
Land and equipment Assets in
buildings and vehicles construction Total
£m £m £m £m
Depreciation at 1 January 2013 (2,437) (7,049) – (9,486)
Exchange adjustments 38 80 – 118
Charge for the year (214) (518) – (732)
Disposals and write-offs 51 422 – 473
Transfer to assets held for sale 20 139 – 159
Depreciation at 31 December 2013 (2,542) (6,926) – (9,468)
Exchange adjustments 28 70 – 98
Charge for the year (212) (568) – (780)
Disposals and write-offs 27 250 – 277
Transfer to assets held for sale 18 23 – 41
Depreciation at 31 December 2014 (2,681) (7,151) – (9,832)
Impairment at 1 January 2013 (152) (266) (62) (480)
Exchange adjustments 1 8 – 9
Disposals and write-offs 14 44 – 58
Impairment losses (23) (100) (1) (124)
Reversal of impairments 2 22 – 24
Transfer (from)/to assets held for sale (1) 1 – –
Impairment at 31 December 2013 (159) (291) (63) (513)
Exchange adjustments – 4 – 4
Disposals and write-offs 30 25 1 56
Impairment losses (34) (45) (15) (94)
Reversal of impairments 47 28 1 76
Impairment at 31 December 2014 (116) (279) (76) (471)
Total depreciation and impairment at 31 December 2013 (2,701) (7,217) (63) (9,981)
Total depreciation and impairment at 31 December 2014 (2,797) (7,430) (76) (10,303)
Net book value at 1 January 2013 4,043 2,854 1,879 8,776
Net book value at 31 December 2013 3,909 2,509 2,454 8,872
Net book value at 31 December 2014 3,667 2,392 2,993 9,052
The net book value at 31 December 2014 of the Group’s land and buildings comprises freehold properties £3,160 million (2013 –
£3,478 million), properties with leases of 50 years or more £336 million (2013 – £366 million) and properties with leases of less than
50 years £162 million (2013 – £65 million).
Included in land and buildings at 31 December 2014 are leased assets with a cost of £733 million (2013 – £784 million), accumulated
depreciation of £226 million (2013 – £313 million), impairment of £9 million (2013 – £40 million) and a net book value of £498 million
(2013 – £431 million). Included in plant, equipment and vehicles at 31 December 2014 are leased assets with a cost of £68 million
(2013 – £99 million), accumulated depreciation of £17 million (2013 – £47 million), impairment of £2 million (2013 – £10 million) and a
net book value of £49 million (2013 – £42 million). Some lease agreements include renewal or purchase options or escalation clauses.
The impairment losses principally arise from decisions to rationalise facilities and are calculated based on either fair value less costs of
disposal or value in use. The fair value less costs of disposal valuation methodology uses significant inputs which are not based on
observable market data, and therefore this valuation technique is classified as level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. These calculations
determine the net present value of the projected risk-adjusted, post-tax cash flows of the relevant asset or cash generating unit, applying
a discount rate of the Group post-tax weighted average cost of capital (WACC) of 7%, adjusted where appropriate for relevant specific
risks. For value in use calculations, where an impairment is indicated and a pre-tax cash flow calculation is expected to give a materially
different result, the test would be reperformed using pre-tax cash flows and a pre-tax discount rate. The Group WACC is equivalent to
a pre-tax discount rate of approximately 9%. The impairment losses have been charged to cost of sales £36 million (2013 – £32 million),
R&D £11 million (2013 – £14 million) and SG&A £47 million (2013 – £78 million), and include £nil (2013 – £62 million) arising from the
major restructuring programmes.
Reversals of impairment arise from subsequent reviews of the impaired assets where the conditions which gave rise to the original
impairments are deemed no longer to apply. All of the reversals have been credited to cost of sales.
The carrying value at 31 December 2014 of assets for which impairments have been charged or reversed in the year was £225 million
(2013 – £6 million).
GSK Annual Report 2014 159Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
continued
18 Goodwill
2014 2013
£m £m
Cost at 1 January 4,205 4,359
Exchange adjustments 34 (134)
Additions through business combinations (Note 38) – 53
Transfer to assets held for sale (511) (55)
Movements in contingent consideration balances (4) (18)
Cost at 31 December 3,724 4,205
Net book value at 1 January 4,205 4,359
Net book value at 31 December 3,724 4,205
During 2013, GSK completed the acquisition of three business, resulting in the recognition of £53 million of goodwill. The majority of
this goodwill related to the acquisition of Okairos AG. This goodwill was allocated to the US, Europe, Emerging Markets and Japan
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines cash generating units for impairment testing purposes as the benefits of the acquired business are split
between these cash generating units.
The transfer to assets held for sale in 2014 arose on the anticipated sale of GSK’s Oncology business as part of the proposed three-part
transaction with Novartis.
The carrying value of goodwill, translated at year-end exchange rates, is allocated to the following cash generated units:
2014 2013
Cash generating unit £m £m
US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 1,734 2,013
Europe Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 458 628
Emerging Markets Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 501 786
Established Products 338 –
Other 354 446
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 3,385 3,873
Consumer Healthcare 339 332
3,724 4,205
The amounts allocated to Japan Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines, Other Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines and ViiV Healthcare are not
significant relative to the total balance.
160 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
18 Goodwill continued
The recoverable amounts of the cash generating units are assessed using either a fair value less costs of disposal model or a value in
use model. Value in use is calculated as the net present value of the projected risk-adjusted post-tax cash flows plus a terminal value of
the cash generating unit to which the goodwill is allocated. Initially a post-tax discount rate is applied to calculate the net present value
of the post-tax cash flows. The discount rate used is based on the Group WACC of 7%, as most cash generating units have integrated
operations across large parts of the Group. The discount rate is adjusted where appropriate for specific country or currency risks.
Fair value less costs of disposal is calculated using a similar discounted cash flow approach. A post-tax discount rate is applied to the
projected risk-adjusted post-tax cash flows and terminal value. The valuation methodology uses significant inputs which are not based
on observable market data, therefore, this valuation technique is classified as level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.
Details relating to the discounted cash flow models used in the impairment tests of the Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines and Consumer
Healthcare cash generating units are as follows:
Valuation basis Higher of fair value less costs of disposal and value in use
Key assumptions Sales growth rates
Profit margins
Terminal growth rate
Discount rate
Taxation rate
Determination of assumptions Growth rates are internal forecasts based on both internal and external market information.
Margins reflect past experience, adjusted for expected changes.
Terminal growth rates based on management’s estimate of future long-term average growth rates.
Discount rates based on Group WACC, adjusted where appropriate.
Taxation rates based on appropriate rates for each region.
Period of specific projected cash flows 5 years
Terminal growth rate and discount rate Terminal growth rate Discount rate
US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 1% p.a. 7%
Europe Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 1% p.a. 7%
Emerging Markets Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 3.0% p.a. 10%
Japan Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 0.5% p.a. 6%
ViiV Healthcare 2.5% p.a. 10%
Established Products 0% p.a. 7%
Other Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 1% p.a. 7%
Consumer Healthcare 3% p.a. 7%
The terminal growth rates do not exceed the long-term projected growth rates for the relevant markets. The terminal growth rates used in
the fair value less costs of disposal calculations for the cash generating units reflect the impact of future generic competition and take
account of new product launches.
In each case the valuations indicate sufficient headroom such that a reasonably possible change to key assumptions is unlikely to result
in an impairment of the related goodwill.
The Pharmaceutical and Vaccines cash generating units comprise a collection of smaller cash generating units including assets with indefinite
lives with a carrying value of £595 million (2013 – £599 million). The Consumer Healthcare cash generating unit also comprises a collection
of smaller cash generating units including brands with indefinite lives with a carrying value of £1.48 billion (2013 – £1.52 billion).
Details of indefinite life brands are given in Note 19 ‘Other intangible assets’.
GSK Annual Report 2014 161Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
continued
19 Other intangible assets
Computer Licences, Amortised Indefinite life
software patents, etc. brands brands Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Cost at 1 January 2013 1,501 10,604 412 2,184 14,701
Exchange adjustments (27) (143) – (37) (207)
Capitalised development costs 79 246 – – 325
Additions through business combinations – 191 7 – 198
Capitalised borrowing costs 5 1 – – 6
Other additions 99 141 – – 240
Disposals and asset write-offs (26) (346) – – (372)
Transfer (to)/from assets held for sale – (222) – 44 (178)
Cost at 31 December 2013 1,631 10,472 419 2,191 14,713
Exchange adjustments 11 52 3 (6) 60
Capitalised development costs – 242 – – 242
Capitalised borrowing costs 6 3 – – 9
Other additions 179 108 – – 287
Reclassifications 12 – – – 12
Disposals and asset write-offs (21) (9) – – (30)
Transfer to assets held for sale – (587) – (30) (617)
Cost at 31 December 2014 1,818 10,281 422 2,155 14,676
Amortisation at 1 January 2013 (1,012) (2,473) (106) – (3,591)
Exchange adjustments 17 65 1 – 83
Charge for the year (128) (536) (18) – (682)
Disposals and asset write-offs 21 2 – – 23
Transfer to assets held for sale – 85 – – 85
Amortisation at 31 December 2013 (1,102) (2,857) (123) – (4,082)
Exchange adjustments (13) (63) – – (76)
Charge for the year (115) (578) (11) – (704)
Disposals and asset write-offs 17 6 – – 23
Amortisation at 31 December 2014 (1,213) (3,492) (134) – (4,839)
Impairment at 1 January 2013 (39) (729) (129) (52) (949)
Exchange adjustments – 9 – 1 10
Impairment losses (6) (702) (11) (26) (745)
Disposals and asset write-offs 4 332 – – 336
Impairment at 31 December 2013 (41) (1,090) (140) (77) (1,348)
Exchange adjustments 2 (18) – – (16)
Impairment losses (7) (131) (14) (5) (157)
Disposals and asset write-offs 4 – – – 4
Impairment at 31 December 2014 (42) (1,239) (154) (82) (1,517)
Total amortisation and impairment at 31 December 2013 (1,143) (3,947) (263) (77) (5,430)
Total amortisation and impairment at 31 December 2014 (1,255) (4,731) (288) (82) (6,356)
Net book value at 1 January 2013 450 7,402 177 2,132 10,161
Net book value at 31 December 2013 488 6,525 156 2,114 9,283
Net book value at 31 December 2014 563 5,550 134 2,073 8,320
The net book value of computer software includes £82 million (2013 – £247 million) of internally generated costs.
The charge for impairments in the year includes the impairments of Lovaza, reflecting a reassessment of the Group’s expectations
on the likelihood of potential generic competition; Galapagos, Nanjing Meirui, retigabine and BMS Middle East. The carrying value at
31 December 2014 of intangible assets, for which impairments have been charged or reversed in the year, following those impairments
or reversals, was £121 million (2013 – £290 million).
162 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
19 Other intangible assets continued
Amortisation and impairment losses, net of reversals, have been charged in the income statement as follows:
Amortisation Net impairment losses
2014 2013 2014 2013
£m £m £m £m
Cost of sales 503 451 78 408
Selling, general and administration 86 128 7 6
Research and development 115 103 72 331
704 682 157 745
Licences, patents, etc. includes a large number of acquired licences, patents, know-how agreements and marketing rights, which are
either marketed or in use, or still in development. Note 38, ‘Acquisitions and disposals’ gives details of additions through business
combinations in the year. The book values of the largest individual items are as follows:
2014 2013
£m £m
dolutegravir 1,680 1,769
Benlysta 1,104 1,142
FluLaval/Fluviral 415 466
Selzentry 223 235
Arzerra – 271
Okairos technology platform 177 190
Lovaza 41 123
Duac 112 120
Toctino 91 110
Others 1,707 2,099
5,550 6,525
Indefinite life brands comprise a portfolio of Consumer Healthcare products primarily acquired with the acquisitions of Sterling Winthrop,
Inc. in 1994, Block Drug Company, Inc. in 2001 and CNS, Inc. in 2006, together with a number of pharmaceutical brands from the
acquisition of Stiefel Laboratories, Inc. in 2009. The book values of the major brands are as follows:
2014 2013
£m £m
Panadol 393 393
Sensodyne 260 257
Stiefel trade name 200 199
Breathe Right 204 192
Physiogel 155 166
Polident 110 109
Biotene 67 106
Corega 98 97
Poligrip 68 67
Others 518 528
2,073 2,114
Each of these brands is considered to have an indefinite life, given the strength and durability of the brand and the level of marketing
support. The brands are in relatively similar stable and profitable market sectors, with similar risk profiles, and their size, diversification
and market shares mean that the risk of market-related factors causing a reduction in the lives of the brands is considered to be relatively
low. The Group is not aware of any material legal, regulatory, contractual, competitive, economic or other factor which could limit their
useful lives. Accordingly, they are not amortised.
Each brand is tested annually for impairment and other amortised intangible assets are tested when indicators of impairment arise.
This testing applies a fair value less costs of disposal methodology, generally using post-tax cash flow forecasts with a terminal value
calculation and a discount rate equal to the Group post-tax WACC of 7%, adjusted where appropriate for country and currency specific
risks. This valuation methodology uses significant inputs which are not based on observable market data, and therefore this valuation
technique is classified as level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. The main assumptions include future sales price and volume growth, product
contribution and the future expenditure required to maintain the product’s marketability and registration in the relevant jurisdictions. These
assumptions are based on past experience and are reviewed as part of management’s budgeting and strategic planning cycle for changes
in market conditions and sales erosion through competition. The terminal growth rates applied of between nil and 3% are management’s
estimates of future long-term average growth rates of the relevant markets. In each case the valuations indicate sufficient headroom such
that a reasonably possible change to key assumptions is unlikely to result in an impairment of these intangible assets.
GSK Annual Report 2014 163Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
continued
20 Investments in associates and joint ventures
Joint 2014 Joint 2013
ventures Associates Total ventures Associates Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 15 308 323 22 557 579
Exchange adjustments (1) (18) (19) (3) (109) (112)
Additions 2 7 9 1 7 8
Disposals – (1) (1) (1) (139) (140)
Transfer to other investments – (13) (13) – (37) (37)
Distributions received – (5) (5) (2) (16) (18)
Other movements – 16 16 – – –
(Loss)/profit after tax recognised in the consolidated
income statement (8) 38 30 (2) 45 43
At 31 December 8 332 340 15 308 323
Investments in joint ventures principally arise from a 50% interest in one joint venture, Japan Vaccine Co., Ltd., with Daiichi Sankyo Co.,
Ltd. The joint venture holds the development and commercial rights for existing preventative vaccines from both parent companies.
It will supply vaccines including Human Papillomavirus (HPV) vaccine, Rotavirus vaccine, Seasonal flu vaccine, Mumps vaccine,
Diphtheria Pertussis (DTP) vaccine and Measles Rubella vaccine (MRV) in Japan.
The Group held one significant associate at 31 December 2014, Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Limited. At 31 December 2014, the Group
owned 56.5 million shares or 12.4% of Aspen. Aspen, listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange, is Africa’s largest pharmaceutical
manufacturer and a major supplier of branded and generic pharmaceutical, healthcare and nutritional products to the southern African
and selected international markets. The investment had a market value of £1,274 million (2013 – £872 million). Although the Group holds
less than 20% of the ownership interest and voting control of Aspen, the Group has the ability to exercise significant influence through
both its shareholding and its nominated director’s active participation on the Aspen Board of Directors.
Summarised balance sheet information in respect of Aspen is set out below:
2014 2013
£m £m
Non-current assets 2,336 1,442
Current assets 1,791 968
Current liabilities (909) (869)
Non-current liabilities (1,955) (672)
Net assets 1,263 869
The summarised balance sheet information in respect of Aspen is based on preliminary results information and analyst forecasts
available at 31 December 2014 with adjustments for transactions between GSK and Aspen.
A reconciliation of the summarised financial information to the carrying amount of the Aspen investment is set out below:
2014 2013
£m £m
At 1 January 869 973
Profit for the year 313 247
Other comprehensive income 148 192
Exchange adjustments (75) (289)
Dividends paid (44) (45)
Other movements 52 (209)
At 31 December 1,263 869
Interest in associated undertaking at 12.4% (2013 – 12.4%) 157 108
Goodwill 117 121
Carrying value at 31 December 274 229
164 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
21 Other investments
2014 2013
£m £m
At 1 January 1,202 787
Exchange adjustments 63 (25)
Additions 95 132
Net fair value movements (16) 379
Impairment losses (25) (71)
Transfer from investments in associates and joint ventures – 58
Disposals (205) (58)
At 31 December 1,114 1,202
Other investments comprise non-current equity investments which are available-for-sale investments recorded at fair value at each
balance sheet date. For investments traded in an active market, the fair value is determined by reference to the relevant stock exchange
quoted bid price. For other investments, the fair value is estimated by management with reference to relevant available information,
including the current market value of similar instruments and discounted cash flows of the underlying net assets. The Group holds a
number of equity investments in entities where the Group has entered into research collaborations. Other investments include listed
investments of £892 million (2013 – £1,000 million), the decrease arising from both disposals and fair value adjustments.
During 2014, one of the companies in which the Group holds an equity investment, Theravance, Inc. (Theravance), separated certain
of its activities into a new biopharmaceutical company, Theravance Biopharma, Inc. (Theravance Biopharma). Theravance’s ongoing
activities are focused on maximising the potential value of the respiratory assets partnered with the Group, including Relvar/Breo Ellipta
and Anoro Ellipta. Theravance is eligible to receive royalty revenues from Relvar/Breo Ellipta and Anoro Ellipta and, if approved and
commercialised, vilanterol monotherapy. Theravance Biopharma will carry on all of the other pre-separation activities of Theravance,
including development of its pipeline (other than development assets partnered with GSK) and marketing of its one approved medicine.
At 31 December 2014, the Group held 27% of the common stock of Theravance and 26% of the common stock of Theravance
Biopharma. Both are accounted for as equity investments as the Group does not have the power to exert significant influence over
the activities of either company.
In 2004, the Group and Theravance entered into a governance agreement related to the Group’s investment in the company. Under the
terms of this governance agreement, the Group does not have the right to appoint a director to the Theravance board, unless the Group’s
holding in Theravance exceeds 50%, and must (with certain limited exceptions) vote its shares either in support of the recommendation
of the independent directors of the board or in proportion to other shareholders’ votes cast. The governance agreement with Theravance
expires in September 2015.
On the creation of Theravance Biopharma in 2014, the Group and Theravance Biopharma entered into a governance agreement similar
in its terms to the agreement already in place with Theravance, but which expires in 2017. Under this agreement, the Group does not
have the right to appoint a director to the Theravance Biopharma board and must (with certain limited exceptions) vote its shares either
in support of the recommendation of the independent directors of the board or in proportion to other shareholders’ votes cast.
Net fair value movements include decreases in the value of the investments in Theravance of £280 million and Theravance Biopharma
of £62 million.
On disposal of investments, fair value movements are reclassified from equity to the income statement based on average cost for shares
acquired at different times.
The impairment losses recorded above have been recognised in the income statement for the year within Other operating income,
together with amounts reclassified from the fair value reserve on recognition of the impairments. These impairments initially result
from prolonged or significant declines in the fair value of the equity investments below acquisition cost, subsequent to which any
further declines in fair value are immediately taken to the income statement.
The carrying value at 31 December of Other investments which have been impaired is as follows:
2014 2013
£m £m
Original cost 558 555
Cumulative impairments recognised in the income statement (420) (410)
Subsequent fair value increases 268 147
Carrying value at 31 December 406 292
22 Other non-current assets
2014 2013
£m £m
Amounts receivable under insurance contracts 447 396
Pension schemes in surplus 93 330
Other receivables 195 163
735 889
GSK Annual Report 2014 165Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
continued
23 Inventories
2014 2013
£m £m
Raw materials and consumables 1,156 937
Work in progress 1,604 1,450
Finished goods 1,471 1,513
4,231 3,900
24 Trade and other receivables
2014 2013
£m £m
Trade receivables, net of provision for bad and doubtful debts 3,556 3,966
Other prepayments and accrued income 289 290
Interest receivable 9 9
Employee loans and advances 28 37
Other receivables 718 1,140
4,600 5,442
Trade receivables include £134 million (2013 – £262 million) after provision for bad and doubtful debts (£162 million before provision,
2013 – £294 million) due from state hospital authorities in Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain. Trade receivables also include
£28 million (2013 – £19 million) due from associates and joint ventures. Other receivables includes £8 million (2013– £233 million)
due from associates and joint ventures.
2014 2013
Bad and doubtful debt provision
£m £m
At 1 January 137 165
Exchange adjustments (3) (2)
Charge for the year 22 29
Subsequent recoveries of amounts provided for (13) (48)
Utilised (1) (7)
At 31 December 142 137
25 Cash and cash equivalents
2014 2013
£m £m
Cash at bank and in hand 1,313 2,549
Short-term deposits 3,025 2,985
4,338 5,534
26 Assets held for sale
2014 2013
£m £m
Plant, equipment and vehicles 60 –
Goodwill 511 –
Other intangibles 543 1
Inventory 42 –
1,156 1
Non-current assets are transferred to assets held for sale when it is expected that their carrying amounts will be recovered principally
through disposal and a sale is considered highly probable. They are held at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
As discussed in Note 43, ‘Proposed Novartis transaction’, GSK has announced that it will divest its marketed Oncology portfolio, related
R&D activities and rights to its AKT inhibitors to Novartis AG, subject to approvals, as part of a three-part interconditional transaction.
Assets associated with the Oncology business divestment have been classified as held for sale.
Included within Assets held for sale are assets which were written down to fair value less costs to sell of £26 million (2013 – £nil).
The valuation methodology uses significant inputs which are not based on observable market data, therefore, this valuation is classified
as level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.
166 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
27 Trade and other payables
2014 2013
£m £m
Trade payables 2,790 2,739
Wages and salaries 957 1,049
Social security 91 109
Other payables 301 906
Deferred income 62 167
Customer return and rebate accruals 1,774 1,599
Contingent consideration 105 3
Other accruals 1,878 1,745
7,958 8,317
Customer return and rebate accruals are provided for by the Group at the point of sale in respect of the estimated rebates, discounts
or allowances payable to customers, including £1,308 million (2013 – £1,188 million) in respect of US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines.
Accruals are made at the time of sale but the actual amounts paid are based on claims made some time after the initial recognition of
the sale. As the amounts are estimated they may not fully reflect the final outcome and are subject to change dependent upon, amongst
other things, the types of buying group and product sales mix. The level of accrual is reviewed and adjusted quarterly in the light of
historical experience of actual rebates, discounts or allowances given and returns made and any changes in arrangements. Future
events could cause the assumptions on which the accruals are based to change, which could affect the future results of the Group.
At 31 December 2013, Other payables include £620 million in respect of the maximum potential amount payable to non-controlling
shareholders in GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Ltd, the Group’s pharmaceuticals subsidiary in India. This amount was an estimate
in the prior year and was settled in March 2014 for £625 million (see Note 39).
Trade and other payables include £9 million (2013 – £9 million) due to associates and joint ventures.
28 Pensions and other post-employment benefits
2014 2013 2012
Pension and other post-employment costs £m £m £m
UK pension schemes 125 139 (230)
US pension schemes 85 95 92
Other overseas pensions schemes 123 111 129
Unfunded post-retirement healthcare schemes 70 (175) 104
403 170 95
Analysed as:
Funded defined benefit/hybrid pension schemes 267 283 (67)
Unfunded defined benefit pension schemes 34 30 14
Unfunded post-retirement healthcare schemes 70 (175) 104
Defined benefit schemes 371 138 51
Defined contribution pension schemes 32 32 44
403 170 95
The net reduction in the post-retirement healthcare schemes cost in 2013 arises from the restructuring of US post-retirement medical
obligations. The reduction in the UK pension scheme cost in 2012 relates to the one-off adjustments arising from the capping of future
pensionable salary increases and a change in the basis of future discretionary pension increased from RPI to CPI in certain legacy plans.
For further details see page 168.
The costs of the defined benefit pension and post-retirement healthcare schemes are charged in the income statement as follows:
2014 2013 2012
£m £m £m
Cost of sales 117 104 (2)
Selling, general and administration 194 27 114
Research and development 60 7 (61)
371 138 51
GSK entities operate pension arrangements which cover the Group’s material obligations to provide pensions to retired employees. These
arrangements have been developed in accordance with local practices in the countries concerned. Pension benefits can be provided by
state schemes; by defined contribution schemes, whereby retirement benefits are determined by the value of funds arising from contributions
paid in respect of each employee; or by defined benefit schemes, whereby retirement benefits are based on employee pensionable
remuneration and length of service. Some ‘hybrid’ defined benefit schemes also include defined contribution sections.
GSK Annual Report 2014 167Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
continued
28 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
Pension costs of defined benefit schemes for accounting purposes have been calculated using the projected unit method. In certain
countries pension benefits are provided on an unfunded basis, some administered by trustee companies. Formal, independent, actuarial
valuations of the Group’s main plans are undertaken regularly, normally at least every three years.
Actuarial movements in the year are recognised through the statement of comprehensive income. Discount rates are derived from AA
rated corporate bond yields except in countries where there is no deep market in corporate bonds where government bond yields are
used. Discount rates are selected to reflect the term of the expected benefit payments. Projected inflation rate and pension increases
are long-term predictions based on the yield gap between long-term index-linked and fixed interest Gilts. In the UK, mortality rates are
determined by adjusting the SAPS standard mortality tables to reflect recent scheme experience. These rates are then projected to
reflect improvements in life expectancy in line with the CMI projections with a long-term rate of improvement of 1.25% per year for both
males and females. In the USA, mortality rates are calculated using the RP2014 white collar table adjusted to reflect recent experience.
These rates are projected using scale BB-2D to allow for future improvements in life expectancy.
The average life expectancy assumed now for an individual at the age of 60 and projected to apply in 2034 for an individual then at the
age of 60 is as follows:
UK USA
Male Female Male Female
Years Years Years Years
Current 28.0 30.2 27.0 28.7
Projected for 2034 30.1 32.2 28.7 30.4
The assets of funded schemes are generally held in separately administered trusts, either as specific assets or as a proportion of a
general fund, or are insurance contracts. Assets are invested in different classes in order to maintain a balance between risk and return.
Investments are diversified to limit the financial effect of the failure of any individual investment. The Group reviewed the investment
strategy of the UK plans in 2011 and the asset allocation for the UK plans has been adjusted to approximately 55% return seeking assets
and 45% liability matching assets. In 2013, the target asset allocation of the US plans was also updated to 55% return seeking assets
and 45% liability matching assets.
The Pension Plans are exposed to risk that arises because the estimated market value of the Plans’ assets might decline, the investment
returns might reduce, or the estimated value of the Plans’ liabilities might increase.
In line with the agreed mix of return seeking assets to generate future returns and liability matching assets to better match future pension
obligations, the Group has defined an overall long-term investment strategy for the Plans, with investments across a broad range of
assets. The main market risks within the asset and hedging portfolio are against credit risk, interest rates, long-term inflation, equities,
property, and bank counterparty risk.
The Plan liabilities are a series of future cash flows with relatively long duration. On an IAS 19R basis, these cash flows are sensitive to
changes in the expected long-term inflation rate and the discount rate (AA corporate bond yield curve) where an increase in long-term
inflation corresponds with an increase in the liabilities, and an increase in the discount rate corresponds with a decrease in the liabilities.
In the UK the defined benefit pension schemes operated for the benefit of former Glaxo Wellcome employees and former SmithKline
Beecham employees remain separate. These schemes were closed to new entrants in 2001 and subsequent UK employees are entitled
to join a defined contribution scheme. In the USA the former Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham defined benefit schemes were
merged during 2001. In addition, the Group operates a number of post-retirement healthcare schemes, the principal one of which is in
the USA.
During 2013, the Group restructured US post-retirement medical obligations for both active and retired members under the age of 65.
The prior plan for participants over 65, paid for medical expenses in excess of those covered by Medicare Part A and Part B as well as for
prescription drugs. Under the new arrangement these participants will instead be eligible to receive an amount, from age 65, from a health
reimbursement account, based on years of service, subject to an inflation linked maximum of $1,500 per year. Those already retired and over
the age of 65 have also been given the option to switch to this new arrangement. The impact of this change in 2013 is a credit to the income
statement of £279 million and a similar reduction in the post-retirement obligation.
During 2012, the Group changed its policy towards granting discretionary pension increases in the SmithKline Beecham defined benefit
schemes. In the year, the Group also introduced a limit for all UK defined benefit schemes of 2% per year on the rate at which
pensionable pay may increase.
The Group has applied the following financial assumptions in assessing the defined benefit liabilities:
UK USA Rest of World
2014 2013 2012 2014 2013 2012 2014 2013 2012
% pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa
Rate of increase of future earnings 2.00 2.00 2.00 4.00 4.00 4.00 2.60 2.80 3.00
Discount rate 3.60 4.50 4.40 3.80 4.60 3.80 2.00 3.40 3.30
Expected pension increases 3.00 3.40 3.00 n/a n/a n/a 2.00 2.10 1.90
Cash balance credit/conversion rate n/a n/a n/a 3.00 4.20 3.35 0.50 0.90 1.30
Inflation rate 3.00 3.40 3.00 2.25 2.25 2.25 1.40 1.80 1.70
168 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
28 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
The amounts recorded in the income statement and statement of comprehensive income for the three years ended 31 December 2014
in relation to the defined benefit pension and post-retirement healthcare schemes were as follows:
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
UK USA Rest of World Group Group
2014 £m £m £m £m £m
Amounts charged to operating profit
Current service cost 119 66 90 275 24
Past service cost/(credit) 7 1 (11) (3) (8)
Net interest (credit)/cost (7) 14 14 21 54
Gains from settlements – – (4) (4) –
Expenses 6 4 2 12 –
125 85 91 301 70
Remeasurements recorded in the statement of
comprehensive income (629) (223) (244) (1,096) (85)
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
UK USA Rest of World Group Group
2013 £m £m £m £m £m
Amounts charged to operating profit
Current service cost 117 74 89 280 37
Past service cost/(credit) 4 – (31) (27) (273)
Net interest cost 12 17 17 46 61
Expenses 6 4 4 14 –
139 95 79 313 (175)
Remeasurements recorded in the statement of
comprehensive income 349 257 74 680 167
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
UK USA Rest of World Group Group
2012 £m £m £m £m £m
Amounts charged to operating profit
Current service cost 130 66 75 271 36
Past service (credit)/cost (391) – – (391) 2
Net interest cost 31 26 10 67 66
(230) 92 85 (53) 104
Remeasurements recorded in the statement of
comprehensive income (384) 48 (230) (566) (119)
The past service credit of £273 million in 2013 includes an amount of £279 million in relation to the restructuring of the US post-retirement
medical obligations. The past service credit of £391 million in 2012 reflects the adjustments of £395 million related to the capping of future
pensionable salary increases and a change in the basis of future discretionary pension increases from RPI to CPI in certain legacy plans.
For further details see page 168.
The amounts included within past service costs include £7 million (2013 – £nil; 2012 – £4 million) of augmentation costs arising from
major restructuring programmes (see Note 29, ‘Other provisions’).
GSK Annual Report 2014 169Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
continued
28 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
A summarised balance sheet presentation of the Group defined benefit pension schemes and other post-retirement benefits is set out in the
table below:
2014 2013 2012
£m £m £m
Recognised in Other non-current assets:
Pension schemes in surplus 93 330 124
Recognised in Pensions and other post-employment benefits:
Pension schemes in deficit (1,782) (943) (1,436)
Post-retirement benefits (1,397) (1,246) (1,685)
(3,179) (2,189) (3,121)
The fair values of the assets and liabilities of the UK and US defined benefit pension schemes, together with aggregated data for other
defined benefit pension schemes in the Group are as follows:
UK USA Rest of World Group
At 31 December 2014 £m £m £m £m
Equities: – listed 6,734 1,203 325 8,262
– unlisted 247 – 9 256
Property: – unlisted 256 146 4 406
Corporate bonds: – listed 1,403 921 97 2,421
– unlisted 247 – 25 272
Government bonds: – listed 2,489 152 603 3,244
Insurance contracts 803 – 378 1,181
Other assets (127) 109 88 70
Fair value of assets 12,052 2,531 1,529 16,112
Present value of scheme obligations (12,492) (3,133) (2,176) (17,801)
Recognised on the balance sheet (440) (602) (647) (1,689)
Included in other non-current assets 72 – 21 93
Included in pensions and other post-employment benefits (512) (602) (668) (1,782)
(440) (602) (647) (1,689)
Actual return on plan assets 977 99 181 1,257
In October 2013, the UK schemes entered into repurchase agreements to gain exposure to index-linked gilts. The related loan is also
included within ‘Other assets’ at a value of £(537) million (2013 – £(407) m illion; 2012 – £nil).
UK USA Rest of World Group
At 31 December 2013 £m £m £m £m
Equities: – listed 6,474 1,202 422 8,098
– unlisted – – 9 9
Property: – unlisted 254 131 5 390
Corporate bonds: – listed 1,484 531 57 2,072
– unlisted – – 20 20
Government bonds: – listed 2,376 320 517 3,213
Insurance contracts 775 – 366 1,141
Other assets (119) 330 71 282
Fair value of assets 11,244 2,514 1,467 15,225
Present value of scheme obligations (11,132) (2,793) (1,913) (15,838)
Recognised on the balance sheet 112 (279) (446) (613)
Included in other non-current assets 292 – 38 330
Included in pensions and other post-employment benefits (180) (279) (484) (943)
112 (279) (446) (613)
Actual return on plan assets 1,383 218 98 1,699
170 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
28 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
UK USA Rest of World Group
At 31 December 2012 £m £m £m £m
Equities: – listed 5,270 1,018 276 6,564
Property: – unlisted 265 116 5 386
Corporate bonds: – listed 1,439 586 19 2,044
Government bonds: – listed 2,054 427 657 3,138
Insurance contracts 751 – 327 1,078
Other assets 202 374 93 669
Fair value of assets 9,981 2,521 1,377 13,879
Present value of scheme obligations (10,298) (2,979) (1,914) (15,191)
Recognised on the balance sheet (317) (458) (537) (1,312)
Included in other non-current assets 103 – 21 124
Included in pensions and other post-employment benefits (420) (458) (558) (1,436)
(317) (458) (537) (1,312)
Actual return on plan assets 665 308 118 1,091
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
UK USA Rest of World Group Group
Movements in fair values of assets £m £m £m £m £m
Assets at 1 January 2012 9,119 2,455 1,284 12,858 –
Exchange adjustments – (125) (56) (181) –
Interest income 381 97 55 533 –
Remeasurement 284 211 63 558 –
Employer contributions 497 52 86 635 76
Scheme participants’ contributions 33 – 9 42 15
Benefits paid (333) (169) (58) (560) (91)
Settlements and curtailments – – (6) (6) –
Assets at 31 December 2012 9,981 2,521 1,377 13,879 –
Exchange adjustments – (49) (45) (94) –
Interest income 385 96 45 526 –
Expenses (6) (4) (4) (14) –
Remeasurement 998 122 53 1,173 –
Employer contributions 219 20 104 343 76
Scheme participants’ contributions 26 – 10 36 15
Benefits paid (359) (192) (73) (624) (91)
Assets at 31 December 2013 11,244 2,514 1,467 15,225 –
Exchange adjustments – 154 (101) 53 –
Interest income 437 112 47 596 –
Expenses (6) (4) (2) (12) –
Settlements and curtailments – – (65) (65) –
Remeasurement 540 (13) 134 661 –
Employer contributions 202 19 102 323 70
Scheme participants’ contributions 34 – 10 44 10
Benefits paid (399) (251) (63) (713) (80)
Assets at 31 December 2014 12,052 2,531 1,529 16,112 –
The UK defined benefit schemes include defined contribution sections with account balances totalling £1,501 million at 31 December
2014 (2013 – £1,366 million; 2012 – £1,112 million).
During 2014, the Group made special funding contributions to the UK pension schemes totalling £85 million (2013 – £93 million;
2012 – £366 million) and £nil (2013 – £nil; 2012 – £32 million) to the US scheme. In 2013, GSK reached an agreement with the
trustees of the UK pension schemes to make additional contributions to eliminate the pension deficit identified at the 31 December
2011 actuarial funding valuation. Based on the funding agreements following the 2011 valuation, the additional contributions are
expected to be £85 million in 2015. The contributions were based on a government bond yield curve approach to selecting the
discount rate; the rate chosen included an allowance for expected investment returns which reflected the asset mix of the schemes.
Employer contributions for 2015, including special funding contributions, are estimated to be approximately £320 million in respect
of defined benefit pension schemes and £70 million in respect of post-retirement benefits.
GSK Annual Report 2014 171Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
continued
28 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
UK USA Rest of World Group Group
Movements in defined benefit obligations
£m £m £m £m £m
Obligations at 1 January 2012 (9,779) (2,945) (1,610) (14,334) (1,616)
Exchange adjustments – 149 74 223 78
Service cost (130) (66) (75) (271) (36)
Past service cost 391 – – 391 (2)
Interest cost (412) (123) (65) (600) (66)
Settlements and curtailments – – 6 6 –
Remeasurement (668) (163) (293) (1,124) (119)
Scheme participants’ contributions (33) – (9) (42) (15)
Benefits paid 333 169 58 560 91
Obligations at 31 December 2012 (10,298) (2,979) (1,914) (15,191) (1,685)
Exchange adjustments – 46 37 83 9
Service cost (117) (74) (89) (280) (37)
Past service cost (4) – 31 27 273
Interest cost (397) (113) (62) (572) (61)
Other movements – – – – 12
Remeasurement (649) 135 21 (493) 167
Scheme participants’ contributions (26) – (10) (36) (15)
Benefits paid 359 192 73 624 91
Obligations at 31 December 2013 (11,132) (2,793) (1,913) (15,838) (1,246)
Exchange adjustments – (188) 139 (49) (68)
Service cost (119) (66) (90) (275) (24)
Past service cost (7) (1) 11 3 8
Interest cost (430) (126) (61) (617) (54)
Settlements and curtailments – – 69 69 –
Other movements – – (6) (6) 2
Remeasurement (1,169) (210) (378) (1,757) (85)
Scheme participants’ contributions (34) – (10) (44) (10)
Benefits paid 399 251 63 713 80
Obligations at 31 December 2014 (12,492) (3,133) (2,176) (17,801) (1,397)
The UK defined benefit schemes include defined contribution sections with obligations totalling £1,501 million at 31 December 2014
(2013 – £1,366 million; 2012 – £1,112 million).
The defined benefit pension obligation is analysed as follows:
2014 2013 2012
£m £m £m
Funded (17,350) (15,432) (14,789)
Unfunded (451) (406) (402)
(17,801) (15,838) (15,191)
The liability for the US post-retirement healthcare scheme has been assessed using the same assumptions as for the US pension
scheme, together with the assumption for future medical inflation of 6.75% (2013 – 6.5%), grading down to 5.0% in 2022 and thereafter.
During 2013, the US post-retirement healthcare scheme was amended (see page 168 for further details). The impact of this change is a
one-off reduction in the post-retirement obligation of £279 million. At 31 December 2014, the US post-retirement healthcare scheme
obligation was £1,191 million (2013 – £1,066 million; 2012 – £1,504 million).
Post-retirement benefits are unfunded.
172 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
28 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
The movement in the net defined benefit liability is as follows:
Present
Fair value value of Net
of assets obligation total
£m £m £m
At 1 January 2012 12,858 (14,334) (1,476)
Exchange adjustments (181) 223 42
Service cost – (271) (271)
Past service cost – 391 391
Interest income/(cost) 533 (600) (67)
Settlements and curtailments (6) 6 –
Remeasurements:
Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest 558 – 558
Gain from change in demographic assumptions – 55 55
Loss from change in financial assumptions – (1,071) (1,071)
Experience losses – (108) (108)
Employers contributions 635 – 635
Scheme participants’ contributions 42 (42) –
Benefits paid (560) 560 –
At 31 December 2012 13,879 (15,191) (1,312)
Exchange adjustments (94) 83 (11)
Service cost – (280) (280)
Past service cost – 27 27
Interest income/(cost) 526 (572) (46)
Remeasurements:
Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest 1,173 – 1,173
Loss from change in demographic assumptions – (89) (89)
Loss from change in financial assumptions – (118) (118)
Experience losses – (286) (286)
Employers contributions 343 – 343
Scheme participants’ contributions 36 (36) –
Benefits paid (624) 624 –
Expenses/other movements (14) – (14)
At 31 December 2013 15,225 (15,838) (613)
Exchange adjustments 53 (49) 4
Service cost – (275) (275)
Past service cost – 3 3
Interest income/(cost) 596 (617) (21)
Settlements and curtailments (65) 69 4
Remeasurements:
Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest 661 – 661
Loss from change in demographic assumptions – (64) (64)
Loss from change in financial assumptions – (1,578) (1,578)
Experience losses – (115) (115)
Employers contributions 323 – 323
Scheme participants’ contributions 44 (44) –
Benefits paid (713) 713 –
Expenses/other movements (12) (6) (18)
At 31 December 2014 16,112 (17,801) (1,689)
The remeasurements included within post-retirement benefits are detailed below:
2014 2013 2012
£m £m £m
Gain/(loss) from change in demographic assumptions 10 (1) 1
(Loss)/gain from change in financial assumptions (120) 143 (132)
Experience gains 25 25 12
(85) 167 (119)
GSK Annual Report 2014 173Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
continued
28 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
The defined benefit pension obligation analysed by membership category is as follows:
2014 2013 2012
£m £m £m
Active 5,422 5,053 4,695
Retired 7,967 7,137 6,930
Deferred 4,412 3,648 3,566
17,801 15,838 15,191
The post-retirement benefit obligation analysed by membership category is as follows:
2014 2013 2012
£m £m £m
Active 590 545 708
Retired 805 699 975
Deferred 2 2 2
1,397 1,246 1,685
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is as follows:
2014 2013 2012
years years years
Pension benefits 16 16 16
Post-retirement benefits 12 12 11
Sensitivity analysis
Effect of changes in assumptions used on the benefit obligations and on the 2015 annual defined benefit pension and post retirement
costs after the revisions to IAS 19.
£m
A 0.25% decrease in discount rate would have the following approximate effect:
Increase in annual pension cost 32
Decrease in annual post-retirement benefits cost (1)
Increase in pension obligation 645
Increase in post-retirement benefits obligation 43
A one year increase in life expectancy would have the following approximate effect:
Increase in annual pension cost 20
Increase in annual post-retirement benefits cost 2
Increase in pension obligation 454
Increase in post-retirement benefits obligation 37
A 1% increase in the rate of future healthcare inflation would have the following approximate effect:
Increase in annual post-retirement benefits cost 4
Increase in post-retirement benefits obligation 63
A 0.25% increase in inflation would have the following approximate effect:
Increase in annual pension cost 21
Increase in pension obligation 431
174 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
29 Other provisions
Legal Major Employee Integration and
and other restructuring related manufacturing Other
disputes programmes provisions re-organisation provisions Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2014 646 349 260 8 281 1,544
Exchange adjustments 37 10 2 1 1 51
Charge for the year 549 267 20 – 61 897
Reversed unused (2) (4) – (5) (9) (20)
Unwinding of discount (1) 5 – – 11 15
Utilised (709) (110) (31) (4) (35) (889)
Reclassifications and other movements – 3 1 – (19) (15)
Transfer to Pension obligations – 7 – – – 7
At 31 December 2014 520 527 252 – 291 1,590
To be settled within one year 496 298 76 – 175 1,045
To be settled after one year 24 229 176 – 116 545
At 31 December 2014 520 527 252 – 291 1,590
Legal and other disputes Major restructuring programmes
The Group is involved in a substantial number of legal and other In October 2007 the Group announced the Operational
disputes, including notification of possible claims, as set out in Excellence programme to improve the effectiveness and
Note 45 ‘Legal proceedings’. Provisions for legal and other productivity of its operations (see Note 10, ‘Major restructuring
disputes include amounts relating to product liability (principally costs’). This was substantially complete at the end of 2014.
relating to Avandia, and Paxil), anti-trust (principally relating to In addition, in 2013, the Group initiated the Major Change
Wellbutrin XL and Lamictal), government investigations (principally restructuring programme focused on opportunities to simplify
relating to the China settlement and SEC/DOJ and SFO related supply chain processes, build the Group’s capabilities in
investigations), contract terminations, self insurance, environmental manufacturing and R&D and restructure the European
clean-up and property rental. Pharmaceuticals business.
The charge for the year of £549 million (£547 million net of The new Pharmaceuticals restructuring programme, announced in
reversals and estimated insurance recoveries) included a October 2014, will rescale commercial operations, global support
£301 million fine paid to the Chinese government and provisions functions and the relevant R&D/manufacturing operations across
for product liability cases regarding Paxil and other products, Pharmaceuticals.
commercial disputes and various other government investigations.
Provisions for staff severance payments are made when
The discount on the provisions decreased by £nil in 2014 management has made a formal decision to eliminate certain
(2013 – £nil) and was calculated using risk-adjusted projected positions and this has been communicated to the groups of
cash flows and risk-free rates of return. The movement in 2014 employees affected and appropriate consultation procedures
includes an increase of £1 million (2013 – £nil) arising from a completed, where appropriate.
change in the discount rate in the year.
No provision is made for staff severance payments that are
In respect of product liability claims related to certain products, made immediately.
there is sufficient history of claims made and settlements to enable
Pension augmentations arising from staff redundancies of
management to make a reliable estimate of the provision required
£7 million (2013 – £nil) have been charged during the year and
to cover unasserted claims. The ultimate liability for such matters
then transferred to the pension obligations provision as shown
may vary from the amounts provided and is dependent upon the
in Note 28, ‘Pensions and other post-employment benefits’.
outcome of litigation proceedings, investigations and possible
Asset write-downs have been recognised as impairments of
settlement negotiations.
property, plant and equipment in Note 17, ‘Property, plant and
It is in the nature of the Group’s business that a number of equipment’. The majority of the amounts provided are expected
these matters may be the subject of negotiation and litigation to be utilised in the next two years.
over many years. Litigation proceedings, including the various
Employee related provisions
appeal procedures, often take many years to reach resolution, and
Employee related provisions include obligations for certain
out-of-court settlement discussions can also often be protracted.
medical benefits to disabled employees and their spouses in
The Group is in potential settlement discussions in a number of the USA. At 31 December 2014, the provision for these benefits
the disputes for which amounts have been provided and, based amounted to £114 million (2013 – £111 million). Other employee
on its current assessment of the progress of these disputes, benefits reflect a variety of provisions for severance costs, jubilee
estimates that £0.5 billion of the amount provided at 31 December awards and other long-service benefits.
2014 will be settled within one year. At 31 December 2014, it was
Other provisions
expected that £nil (2013 – £1 million) of the provision made for
Included in other provisions are insurance provisions of £83
legal and other disputes will be reimbursed by third party insurers.
million (2013 – £31 million), onerous property lease provisions
This amount is included within the Other receivables balances in
of £33 million (2013 – £33 million) and a number of other
Note 22 ‘Other non-current assets’ and Note 24, ‘Trade and
provisions including vehicle insurance and regulatory matters.
other receivables’. For a discussion of legal issues, see Note 45,
‘Legal proceedings’.
GSK Annual Report 2014 175Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
continued
30 Other non-current liabilities
2014 2013
£m £m
Accruals and deferred income 92 101
Contingent consideration 1,619 958
Other payables 690 645
2,401 1,704
The contingent consideration primarily relates to the acquisition of the 50% share of the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture previously
held by Shionogi & Co Ltd in 2012.
31 Contingent liabilities
At 31 December 2014, contingent liabilities, comprising guarantees, discounted bills and other items arising in the normal course of
business, amounted to £185 million (2013 – £198 million). At 31 December 2014, £nil (2013 – £nil) of financial assets were pledged
as collateral for contingent liabilities. Provision is made for the outcome of tax, legal and other disputes where it is both probable that the
Group will suffer an outflow of funds and it is possible to make a reliable estimate of that outflow. At 31 December 2014, other than for
those disputes where provision has been made, it was not possible to make a reliable estimate of the potential outflow of funds that might
be required to settle disputes where the possibility of there being an outflow was more than remote. Descriptions of the significant tax,
legal and other disputes to which the Group is a party are set out in Note 14, ‘Taxation’ and Note 45, ‘Legal proceedings’.
32 Net debt
2014 2013
Listing exchange £m £m
Current assets:
Liquid investments 69 66
Cash and cash equivalents 4,338 5,534
4,407 5,600
Short-term borrowings:
Commercial paper (656) (1,491)
Bank loans and overdrafts (379) (352)
Obligations under finance leases (28) (27)
4.375% US$ US Medium Term Note 2014 London Stock Exchange – (919)
0.75% US$ US Medium Term Note 2015 New York Stock Exchange (641) –
3.875% € European Medium Term Note 2015 London Stock Exchange (1,239) –
(2,943) (2,789)
Long-term borrowings:
0.75% US$ US Medium Term Note 2015 New York Stock Exchange – (601)
3.875% € European Medium Term Note 2015 London Stock Exchange – (1,330)
0.7% US$ US Medium Term Note 2016 New York Stock Exchange (800) (751)
1.50% US$ US Medium Term Note 2017 New York Stock Exchange (1,278) (1,199)
5.625% € European Medium Term Note 2017 London Stock Exchange (967) (1,038)
5.65% US$ US Medium Term Note 2018 New York Stock Exchange (1,760) (1,653)
0.625% € European Medium Term Note 2019 London Stock Exchange (1,154) –
2.85% US$ US Medium Term Note 2022 New York Stock Exchange (1,271) (1,193)
2.8% US$ US Medium Term Note 2023 New York Stock Exchange (792) (743)
1.375% € European Medium Term Note 2024 London Stock Exchange (764) –
4.00% € European Medium Term Note 2025 London Stock Exchange (575) (618)
3.375% £ European Medium Term Note 2027 London Stock Exchange (591) (591)
5.25% £ European Medium Term Note 2033 London Stock Exchange (984) (983)
5.375% US$ US Medium Term Note 2034 London Stock Exchange (318) (299)
6.375% US$ US Medium Term Note 2038 New York Stock Exchange (1,747) (1,641)
6.375% £ European Medium Term Note 2039 London Stock Exchange (695) (694)
5.25% £ European Medium Term Note 2042 London Stock Exchange (987) (987)
4.2% US$ US Medium Term Note 2043 New York Stock Exchange (313) (294)
4.25% £ European Medium Term Note 2045 London Stock Exchange (788) (788)
Obligations under finance leases (57) (53)
(15,841) (15,456)
Net debt (14,377) (12,645)
176 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
32 Net debt continued
Current assets The weighted average interest rate on current bank loans and
Liquid investments are classified as available-for-sale investments. overdrafts at 31 December 2014 was 4.28% (2013 – 3.7%).
At 31 December 2014, they included US Treasury Notes and The weighted average interest rate on commercial paper
other government bonds. The effective interest rate on liquid borrowings at 31 December 2014 was 0.22% (2013 – 0.18%).
investments at 31 December 2014 was approximately 0.3%
Long-term borrowings
(2013 – approximately 0.5%). Liquid investment balances at
At the year-end, GSK had long-term borrowings of £15.8 billion
31 December 2014 earning interest at floating rates amount to
(2013 – £15.5 billion) of which £9.8 billion (2013 – £8.8 billion)
£69 million (2013 – £65 million). Liquid investment balances at
falls due in more than five years. The average effective pre-swap
31 December 2014 earning interest at fixed rates are immaterial
interest rate of all notes in issue at 31 December 2014 was
(2013 – £1 million).
approximately 3.8% (2013 – approximately 4.5%).
The effective interest rate on cash and cash equivalents at
Long-term borrowings repayable after five years carry interest
31 December 2014 was approximately 1.6% (2013 – approximately
at effective rates between 1.55% and 6.41%. The repayment
1.3%). Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2014 earning
dates range from 2022 to 2045.
interest at floating and fixed rates amount to £4,243 million and
£1 million respectively (2013 – £5,298 million and £1 million). Pledged assets
The Group has pledged investments in US Treasury Notes with
GSK’s policy regarding the credit quality of cash and cash
a par value of $105 million (£67 million), (2013 – $105 million
equivalents is referred to in Note 41, ‘Financial instruments and
(£63 million)) as security against irrevocable letters of credit
related disclosures’.
issued on the Group’s behalf in respect of the Group’s self-
Short-term borrowings insurance activity. Provisions in respect of self-insurance are
GSK has a $10 billion (£6.4 billion) US commercial paper included within the provisions for legal and other disputes
programme, of which $1.0 billion (£0.7 billion) was in issue at discussed in Note 29, ‘Other provisions’. In addition, £32 million
31 December 2014 (2013 – $2.5 billion (£1.5 billion)). GSK also (2013 – £48 million) of assets included in Note 22, ‘Other
has £1.9 billion of five year committed medium-term facilities and non-current assets’, which do not form part of Net debt, were
$2.5 billion (£1.6 billion) of 364 day committed facilities. These pledged as collateral against future rental payments under
facilities were put in place in September 2012 and September operating lease arrangements entered into by Human Genome
2014 respectively and were undrawn at 31 December 2014. Sciences, Inc. prior to its acquisition by the Group.
Liquid investments, cash and cash equivalents were as shown
in the table on page 176.
2014 2013
Finance lease obligations £m £m
Rental payments due within one year 31 29
Rental payments due between one and two years 23 24
Rental payments due between two and three years 19 16
Rental payments due between three and four years 13 9
Rental payments due between four and five years 3 4
Rental payments due after five years 2 5
Total future rental payments 91 87
Future finance charges (6) (7)
Total finance lease obligations 85 80
GSK Annual Report 2014 177Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
continued
33 Share capital and share premium account
Share
Ordinary Shares of 25p each premium
Number £m £m
Share capital authorised
At 31 December 2012 10,000,000,000 2,500
At 31 December 2013 10,000,000,000 2,500
At 31 December 2014 10,000,000,000 2,500
Share capital issued and fully paid
At 1 January 2012 5,550,203,098 1,387 1,673
Issued under employee share schemes 28,045,821 7 349
Share capital cancelled (180,652,950) (45) –
At 31 December 2012 5,397,595,969 1,349 2,022
Issued under employee share schemes 44,610,727 12 573
Share capital cancelled (100,000,000) (25) –
At 31 December 2013 5,342,206,696 1,336 2,595
Issued under employee share schemes 13,090,536 3 164
At 31 December 2014 5,355,297,232 1,339 2,759
31 December 2014 31 December 2013
000 000
Number of shares issuable under employee share schemes (Note 42) 88,801 91,303
Number of unissued shares not under option 4,555,902 4,566,351
At 31 December 2014, of the issued share capital, 52,734,605 shares were held in the ESOP Trusts, 491,515,950 shares were held as
Treasury shares and 4,811,046,677 shares were in free issue. All issued shares are fully paid. The nominal, carrying and market values of
the shares held in the ESOP Trusts are disclosed in Note 42, ‘Employee share schemes’.
A total of 15 million shares were purchased by the company during 2014 at a cost of £238 million.
Monthly purchases of shares during 2014 were as follows:
Average share price excluding
Number of shares commission and stamp duty
000 £
February 1,741,006 16.27
May 6,718,745 16.21
June 6,245,765 15.90
Total 14,705,516 16.09
For details of substantial shareholdings refer to page 242
178 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
34 Movements in equity
Retained earnings and other reserves amounted to £165 million at 31 December 2014 (2013 – £3,066 million; 2012 – £2,429 million)
of which £337 million (2013 – £307 million; 2012 – £372 million) relates to joint ventures and associated undertakings. The cumulative
translation exchange in equity is as follows:
Net translation exchange included in:
Non- Total
Retained Fair value controlling translation
earnings reserve interests exchange
£m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2012 1,049 15 (68) 996
Exchange movements on overseas net assets (203) (23) (30) (256)
At 31 December 2012 846 (8) (98) 740
Exchange movements on overseas net assets (260) 5 (35) (290)
At 31 December 2013 586 (3) (133) 450
Exchange movements on overseas net assets (504) 7 16 (481)
Reclassification of exchange on liquidation or disposal of overseas subsidiaries (219) – – (219)
At 31 December 2014 (137) 4 (117) (250)
The analysis of other comprehensive income by equity category is as follows:
Non-
Retained Other controlling
earnings reserves interests Total
2014 £m £m £m £m
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges (504) 7 – (497)
Reclassification of exchange on liquidation or disposal of overseas subsidiaries (219) – – (219)
Deferred tax on exchange movements (2) – – (2)
Fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – 29 – 29
Deferred tax on fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – (78) – (78)
Reclassification of fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – (155) – (155)
Deferred tax on reclassification of fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – 58 – 58
Reclassification of cash flow hedges to income statement – (5) – (5)
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges – 5 – 5
Deferred tax on fair value movements on cash flow hedges – (1) – (1)
Share of other comprehensive income of associates and joint ventures 18 – – 18
Items that will not be reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets of non-controlling interests – – 16 16
Actuarial losses on defined benefit plans (1,181) – – (1,181)
Deferred tax on actuarial movements in defined benefit plans 262 – – 262
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year (1,626) (140) 16 (1,750)
Non-
Retained Other controlling
earnings reserves interests Total
2013 £m £m £m £m
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges (260) 5 – (255)
Fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – 367 – 367
Deferred tax on fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – (29) – (29)
Reclassification of fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – (38) – (38)
Deferred tax on reclassification of fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – 7 – 7
Reclassification of cash flow hedges to income statement – 2 – 2
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges – (9) – (9)
Deferred tax on fair value movements on cash flow hedges – 1 – 1
Share of other comprehensive income of associates and joint ventures 15 – – 15
Items that will not be reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets of non-controlling interests – – (35) (35)
Actuarial gains on defined benefit plans 847 – – 847
Deferred tax on actuarial movements in defined benefit plans (286) – – (286)
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year 316 306 (35) 587
GSK Annual Report 2014 179Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
continued
34 Movements in equity continued
Non-
Retained Other controlling
earnings reserves interests Total
2012 £m £m £m £m
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges (203) (23) – (226)
Fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – 77 – 77
Deferred tax on fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – (10) – (10)
Reclassification of fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – (19) – (19)
Deferred tax on reclassification of fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – 10 – 10
Reclassification of cash flow hedges to income statement – 2 – 2
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges – (6) – (6)
Share of other comprehensive income of associates and joint ventures 30 – – 30
Items that will not be reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets of non-controlling interests – – (30) (30)
Actuarial losses on defined benefit plans (685) – – (685)
Deferred tax on actuarial movements in defined benefit plans 193 – – 193
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year (665) 31 (30) (664)
The analysis of other reserves is as follows:
ESOP Trust Fair value Cash flow Other
shares reserve hedge reserve reserves Total
£m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2012 (492) 70 (6) 2,030 1,602
Transferred to income and expense in the year on disposals – (18) 2 – (16)
Transferred to income and expense in the year on impairment – (1) – – (1)
Net fair value movement in the year – 54 (6) – 48
Ordinary Shares purchased and cancelled – – – 45 45
Ordinary Shares acquired by ESOP Trusts (37) – – – (37)
Ordinary Shares transferred by ESOP Trusts 58 – – – 58
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts 80 – – – 80
Forward contract on non-controlling interest – – – 8 8
At 31 December 2012 (391) 105 (10) 2,083 1,787
Transferred to income and expense in the year on disposals – (38) 2 – (36)
Transferred to income and expense in the year on impairment – (1) – – (1)
Net fair value movement in the year – 347 (4) – 343
Ordinary Shares purchased and cancelled – – – 25 25
Ordinary Shares acquired by ESOP Trusts (45) – – – (45)
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts 80 – – – 80
At 31 December 2013 (356) 413 (12) 2,108 2,153
Transferred to income and expense in the year on disposals – (155) (5) – (160)
Net fair value movement in the year – 16 4 – 20
Ordinary Shares acquired by ESOP Trusts (245) – – – (245)
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts 450 – – – 450
Forward contract on non-controlling interest – – – 21 21
At 31 December 2014 (151) 274 (13) 2,129 2,239
Other reserves include various non-distributable merger and pre-merger reserves amounting to £1,849 million at 31 December 2014
(2013 – £1,849 million; 2012 – £1,849 million). Other reserves also include the capital redemption reserve created as a result of the
share buy-back programme amounting to £280 million at 31 December 2014 (2013 – £280 million; 2012 – £256 million).
180 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
35 Related party transactions
GSK held a 12.4% interest in Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Limited at 31 December 2014 (2013 – 12.4%).
During 2014, GSK distributed £52 million (2013 – £64 million) of its products through Aspen’s extensive distribution network.
At 31 December 2014, the balance due to GSK from Aspen was £22 million (2013 – £11 million) and the balance payable by GSK to
Aspen was £9 million (2013 – £9 million). In addition, a further £8 million was due to GSK relating to the consideration of the sale of
worldwide intellectual property rights of the anti-coagulant products business to the Aspen Group in 2013 (2013 – £233 million).
At 31 December 2014, GSK held a 50% interest in Japan Vaccine Co. Ltd (JVC) through its subsidiary GlaxoSmithKline K.K. This joint
venture with Daiichi Sankyo Co., Ltd is primarily responsible for the development and marketing of certain prophylactic vaccines in
Japan. During 2014, GSK sold £27 million (2013 – £36 million) of its vaccine products into the joint venture. At 31 December 2014,
the balance due to GSK from JVC was £6 million and the balance payable by GSK to JVC was £nil.
The aggregate compensation of the Directors and CET is given in Note 9, ‘Employee Costs’.
36 Adjustments reconciling profit after tax to operating cash flows
2014 2013 2012
£m £m £m
Profit after tax 2,831 5,628 4,678
Tax on profits 137 1,019 1,922
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures (30) (43) (29)
Finance income net of finance expense 659 706 729
Depreciation 780 732 871
Amortisation of intangible assets 704 682 574
Impairment and assets written off 205 928 654
Profit on sale of businesses – (1,331) –
Profit on sale of intangible assets (255) (78) (652)
Profit on sale of investments in associates – (282) –
Profit on sale of equity investments (149) (36) (16)
Changes in working capital:
(Increase)/decrease in inventories (529) (95) 37
Decrease in trade receivables 347 16 183
Decrease/(increase) in other receivables 95 (218) (27)
Increase in trade payables 91 125 177
Increase in other payables 698 393 132
Decrease in pension and other provisions (41) (165) (2,839)
Share-based incentive plans 332 319 220
Fair value adjustments 313 (12) (575)
Other 96 211 9
3,453 2,871 1,370
Cash generated from operations 6,284 8,499 6,048
GSK Annual Report 2014 181Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
continued
37 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt
2014 2013 2012
£m £m £m
Net debt at beginning of year (12,645) (14,037) (9,003)
(Decrease)/increase in cash and bank overdrafts (1,287) 1,473 (1,607)
Decrease in liquid investments (1) (15) (224)
Net increase in long-term loans (1,960) (1,913) (4,430)
Net repayment of short-term loans 1,709 1,872 816
Net repayment of obligations under finance leases 23 31 35
Net non-cash funds of subsidiary undertakings acquired – (6) (3)
Exchange adjustments (193) (34) 385
Other non-cash movements (23) (16) (6)
Movement in net debt (1,732) 1,392 (5,034)
Net debt at end of year (14,377) (12,645) (14,037)
At 1 January Reclass- At 31December
2014 Exchange Other ifications Cash flow 2014
Analysis of changes in net debt £m £m £m £m £m £m
Liquid investments 66 4 – – (1) 69
Cash and cash equivalents 5,534 78 – – (1,274) 4,338
Overdrafts (303) 6 – – (13) (310)
5,231 84 – – (1,287) 4,028
Debt due within one year:
Commercial paper (1,491) – – – 835 (656)
European and US Medium Term Notes (919) 55 16 (1,931) 899 (1,880)
Other (76) – (1) (18) (2) (97)
(2,486) 55 15 (1,949) 1,732 (2,633)
Debt due after one year:
European and US Medium Term Notes (15,403) (334) (18) 1,931 (1,960) (15,784)
Other (53) (2) (20) 18 – (57)
(15,456) (336) (38) 1,949 (1,960) (15,841)
Net debt (12,645) (193) (23) – (1,516) (14,377)
For further information on significant changes in net debt see Note 32, ‘Net debt’.
182 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
38 Acquisitions and disposals
Details of the acquisition and disposal of significant subsidiaries and associates, joint ventures and other businesses are given below:
2014
Acquisitions
There were no acquisitions in 2014.
Acquisition and integration costs of £141 million arising on the proposed three-part inter-conditional transaction with Novartis AG
discussed in Note 43 ‘Proposed Novartis transaction’ were expensed in 2014, of which £104 million has been paid in cash.
A number of acquisitions made in previous years include contingent consideration payable in the future, as follows:
2014 2013
Contingent consideration payable £m £m
At 1 January 924 697
Additions – 1
Remeasurement through goodwill (4) (18)
Remeasurement through income statement 770 251
Settlement 34 (7)
At 31 December 1,724 924
Contingent consideration is included within Trade and other payables and Other non-current liabilities. It includes contingent
consideration of £1,684 million (2013 – £923 million) payable for the acquisition in 2012 of the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint
venture. Remeasurements through the income statement include £768 million (2013 – £253 million) in respect of an increase in this
liability. The consideration is expected to be paid over a number of years and will vary in line with sales of dolutegravir.
Disposals
During the year, £225 million was received as deferred consideration from the sale of the anti-coagulent business completed in 2013
and £1 million from the disposal of an associate.
GSK also made cash investments of £9 million into associates.
Business Associates
acquisitions and joint
and disposals ventures Total
Cash flows £m £m £m
Cash consideration paid – 9 9
Transaction costs paid 104 – 104
Purchases of businesses and associates 104 9 113
Net cash proceeds from disposals 225 1 226
2013
Acquisitions
During 2013, GSK completed the acquisition of three businesses for cash, including Okairos AG, a European based biopharmaceutical
company focused on the development of a specific vaccine technology in the prophylactic and therapeutic fields, which was acquired in
May. The total purchase price for these businesses of £255 million included £7 million of cash acquired and
£1 million of contingent consideration.
Fair value
Book value adjustments Fair value
£m £m £m
Net assets acquired
Intangibles – 198 198
Property, plant and equipment 20 3 23
Inventory 6 – 6
Trade and other receivables 16 – 16
Other assets including cash and cash equivalents 8 – 8
Deferred tax provision – (23) (23)
Trade and other payables (26) – (26)
24 178 202
Goodwill – 53 53
24 231 255
Cash consideration paid 254
Contingent consideration 1
Total consideration 255
GSK Annual Report 2014 183Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
continued
38 Acquisitions and disposals continued
If the acquisitions had been made at the beginning of the year, it is estimated that Group turnover would have increased by approximately
£50 million for the year. Okairos has been fully integrated into the GSK business and it is not practicable to separately identify the impact
on the Group profit for the year. The other acquisitions occurred shortly before the end of the year and had no material impact on the
Group profit for the year.
The goodwill arising on the acquisitions reflects potential for business synergies and the value of workforce acquired. The majority of
this goodwill is not expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
The results of the acquisitions are reported within the US, Europe, Emerging Markets, Japan, Other trading and unallocated
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare operating segments. The transactions were accounted for using the
acquisition accounting method.
Acquisition costs expensed in 2013 totalled £2 million.
Disposals
Lucozade and Ribena
On 31 December 2013, GSK completed the sale of the Lucozade and Ribena business including a manufacturing site and related
inventory to Suntory Beverage and Food Ltd for £1,352 million in cash and recognised a profit on disposal in Other operating income of
£1,057 million. Lucozade and Ribena sales, excluding retained markets, totalled £527 million for the year ending 31 December 2013.
£m
Cash consideration 1,352
Net assets sold
Inventory (45)
Property, plant and equipment (149)
Goodwill (24)
(218)
Disposal costs (77)
Profit on disposal 1,057
Anti-coagulant business
On 31 December 2013, GSK completed the sale of the anti-coagulant business comprising of worldwide intellectual property rights
(excluding China, India and Pakistan) of Fraxiparine and Arixtra together with related inventory and a manufacturing site to the Aspen
Group for consideration of £732 million, of which £499 million was received in cash and £233 million was deferred.
Profit on disposal of £274 million was recognised in Other operating income. Worldwide sales of Fraxiparine and Arixtra, excluding
retained markets, were £345 million for the year ending 31 December 2013.
£m
Cash consideration 499
Cash consideration receivable 233
732
Net assets sold
Inventory (138)
Property, plant and equipment (91)
Intangible assets (80)
Goodwill (31)
(340)
Disposal costs (79)
Total profit on disposal 313
Deferral of profit (39)
Profit recognised in year 274
184 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
38 Acquisitions and disposals continued
Investments in associates and joint ventures
In November 2013, GSK sold one third of its shareholding in Aspen, representing 6.2% of the issued share capital of the company,
for £429 million in cash. At 31 December 2013, GSK held 12.4% of Aspen and continued to recognise its investment in Aspen as
an associate.
£m
Cash consideration 429
Net book value of shares (132)
Reclassification of exchange from other comprehensive income (42)
Reclassification of fair value movements from other comprehensive income 19
Profit on disposal 274
Business Associates
acquisitions and joint
and disposals ventures Total
Cash flows £m £m £m
Cash consideration paid 254 8 262
Cash and cash equivalents acquired (7) – (7)
Cash consideration paid, net of cash acquired 247 8 255
Total cash consideration payable, net of cash acquired 248 8 256
Contingent consideration (1) – (1)
Cash consideration paid, net of cash acquired 247 8 255
Total cash proceeds receivable 2,084 429 2,513
Cash proceeds deferred (233) – (233)
Net cash proceeds from disposals 1,851 429 2,280
2012
Acquisitions
Human Genome Sciences, Inc.
On 3 August 2012, GSK completed the acquisition of 100% of the issued share capital of Human Genome Sciences, Inc. (HGS),
a US based biopharmaceutical company focused on the development of protein and anti-body drugs for the treatment of immuno-
inflammation diseases, for cash. The goodwill arising on the acquisition of this business reflected the potential business synergies
and realisation of the full value of Benlysta, albiglutide, darapladib and other assets by simplifying and optimising R&D, commercial
and manufacturing operations through complete ownership of the assets. The goodwill recognised is not expected to be deductible
for income tax purposes.
The results of the acquired business are reported as part of the US, Europe, Emerging Markets, Japan and Other trading and
unallocated costs operating segments. The transaction was accounted for using the acquisition accounting method.
The pro-forma turnover for the HGS business for the full year 2012 was £154 million. During 2012, GSK recorded turnover of
£69 million from HGS products. As the HGS products had been fully integrated into the GSK business, it was not practicable to
separately identify the impact of the acquisition on the Group profit for the year.
GSK Annual Report 2014 185Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
continued
38 Acquisitions and disposals continued
Acquisition costs expensed in 2012 arising on this acquisition amounted to £28 million.
Fair value
Book value adjustments Fair value
£m £m £m
Net assets acquired
Intangible assets – 1,249 1,249
Property, plant and equipment 21 10 31
Trade and other receivables 33 – 33
Other assets including cash and cash equivalents 431 83 514
Deferred tax asset – 156 156
Trade and other liabilities (86) (173) (259)
399 1,325 1,724
Goodwill – 791 791
399 2,116 2,515
Cash consideration paid 2,282
Gain on settlement of pre-existing collaborations 233
Total consideration 2,515
Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture
On 29 October 2012, GSK acquired the 50% share of the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture previously held by Shionogi & Co, Ltd.
The assets acquired included the investigational medicine dolutegravir and early stage integrase inhibitor compounds in development.
Total consideration comprised a 10% equity stake in ViiV Healthcare, GSK’s existing 50% investment in the joint venture and contingent
consideration payable in cash in the future, together with a deferred tax asset and a loss on settlement of pre-existing relationships.
The contingent consideration is payable based on a percentage of the future sales performance of compounds developed by the joint
venture, if they become marketed products, and so the total amount payable is unlimited.
The results of the acquired business are reported as part of ViiV Healthcare. The transaction was accounted for using the acquisition
accounting method.
Acquisition costs expensed in 2012 arising on this acquisition amounted to £2 million.
Fair value
Book value adjustments Fair value
£m £m £m
Net assets acquired
Intangible assets – 1,777 1,777
Deferred tax provision – (628) (628)
– 1,149 1,149
Negative goodwill – (124) (124)
– 1,025 1,025
Consideration settled by shares in ViiV Healthcare 377
Contingent consideration 659
Deferred tax on contingent consideration (236)
Fair value of investment in joint venture converted into subsidiary 256
Loss on settlement of pre-existing relationships (31)
Total consideration 1,025
186 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
38 Acquisitions and disposals continued
Other acquisitions
During 2012, GSK completed two smaller acquisitions for cash. The total cash consideration paid of £206 million included £2 million of
cash acquired.
Fair value
Book value adjustments Fair value
£m £m £m
Net assets acquired
Intangible assets – 232 232
Property, plant and equipment 2 – 2
Trade and other receivables 2 – 2
Other assets including cash and cash equivalents 2 – 2
Deferred tax provision – (14) (14)
Trade and other liabilities (8) 4 (4)
(2) 222 220
Goodwill – 82 82
(2) 304 302
Cash consideration paid 206
Contingent consideration 37
Fair value of equity investment converted into subsidiary 23
Gain on settlement of pre-existing relationships 36
Total consideration 302
If the other acquisitions had been made at the beginning of the year, it is estimated that Group turnover would have increased by
£27 million for the year. As some of the acquisitions had been fully integrated into the GSK business it was not practicable to separately
identify the impact of the acquisitions on the Group profit for the year.
The goodwill arising on the acquisitions reflects the potential for business synergies and further sales growth through the increase
in GSK’s market presence following the acquisitions of these market participants. None of the goodwill recognised is expected to be
deductible for income tax purposes.
The results of the acquisitions are reported as part of the Europe Pharma and Research & Development reportable operating segments.
The Group recognised a settlement gain of £36 million as a result of measuring at fair value relationships that had existed prior to the
acquisition date. The gain was recognised in Other operating income on the income statement.
Acquisition costs expensed in 2012 arising on other acquisitions totalled £9 million.
Investments in associates and joint ventures
GSK made cash contributions of £39 million into the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture prior to its acquisition as a subsidiary and
made cash investments of £19 million into a new joint venture in which the Group held a share of 50%. GSK also made cash investments
of £41 million into associates.
Human Shionogi- Total Associates
Genome ViiV joint Other business and joint
Sciences venture acquisitions acquisitions ventures Total
Cash flows £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cash consideration paid 2,282 – 206 2,488 99 2,587
Cash and cash equivalents acquired (251) – (2) (253) – (253)
Cash consideration paid, net of cash acquired 2,031 – 204 2,235 99 2,334
Total cash consideration payable, net of cash acquired 2,031 659 241 2,931 99 3,030
Contingent consideration – (659) (37) (696) – (696)
Cash consideration paid, net of cash acquired 2,031 – 204 2,235 99 2,334
GSK Annual Report 2014 187Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
continued
39 Non-controlling interests
The Group has one subgroup that has material non-controlling interests, ViiV Healthcare Limited and its subsidiaries. The ViiV
Healthcare group is focused on the research, development and worldwide commercialisation of HIV medicines. Summarised financial
information in respect of the ViiV Healthcare group is set out below:
2014 2013 2012
£m £m £m
Turnover 1,466 1,371 1,337
(Loss)/profit after taxation (606) 190 492
Other comprehensive income/(expense) 8 (9) (12)
Total comprehensive (expense)/income (598) 181 480
Total comprehensive (expense)/income for the year attributable to non-controlling interests (16) 76 (4)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 120 106 51
2014 2013
£m £m
Non-current assets 2,245 2,273
Current assets 1,308 997
Total assets 3,553 3,270
Current liabilities (815) (463)
Non-current liabilities (3,253) (2,253 )
Total liabilities (4,068) (2,716)
Net assets (515) 554
Non-controlling interests attributable to the subgroup 374 530
2014 2013 2012
£m £m £m
Net cash inflow from operating activities 765 637 620
Net cash outflow from investing activities (25) (27) (31)
Net cash outflow from financing activities (540) (662) (350)
Increase/(decrease) in cash and bank overdrafts in the year 200 (52) 239
The above financial information relates to the ViiV Healthcare group on a stand-alone basis, before the impact of Group-related
adjustments. The loss after taxation of £606 million (2013 – profit after taxation of £190 million) is stated after a charge of £768 million
(2013 – £253 million) for remeasurement of the contingent consideration payable for the acquisition of the former Shionogi-ViiV
Healthcare joint venture. This consideration is expected to be paid over a number of years and will vary in line with sales of products
that contain dolutegravir.
Acquisitions of non-controlling interests
On 20 March 2014, GSK increased its shareholding in GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Limited, its pharmaceuticals subsidiary
in India, from 50.7% to 75% (representing an increase in shares held of 20,609,774 at a price of INR 3,100 per share) for £625 million.
The carrying amount of non-controlling interests acquired was £61 million. On 5 February 2013, GSK increased its shareholding in
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Ltd (India) from 43.2% to 72.5% for £588 million.
188 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
40 Commitments
2014 2013
Contractual obligations and commitments £m £m
Contracted for but not provided in the financial statements:
Intangible assets 7,079 7,056
Property, plant and equipment 359 443
Investments 100 111
Purchase commitments 428 614
Pensions 425 510
Other commitments 186 233
Interest on loans 9,744 10,063
Finance lease charges 6 7
18,327 19,037
The commitments related to intangible assets include milestone payments, which are dependent on successful clinical development
or on meeting specified sales targets, and which represent the maximum that would be paid if all milestones, however unlikely, are
achieved. The amounts are not risk-adjusted or discounted. A number of commitments were made in 2014 under licensing and other
agreements, including an arrangement with Adaptimmune Ltd. These new arrangements were offset by reduced commitments due
on prior year transactions including amendments to the agreement with Prosensa N.V.
In 2013, GSK reached an agreement with the trustees of the UK pension schemes to make additional contributions to eliminate the
pension deficit identified at the 31 December 2011 actuarial funding valuation. A payment of £85 million is due in 2015. Future
payments will be based on the deficit position of the scheme, up to a maximum of £340 million. The table above includes this
commitment, but excludes the normal ongoing annual funding requirement in the UK of approximately £100 million.
The Group also has other commitments which principally relate to revenue payments to be made under licences and other alliances.
Commitments in respect of future interest payable on loans are disclosed before taking into account the effect of interest rate swaps.
Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases are disclosed below. £310 million (2013 – £322 million) is provided against
these commitments on the Group’s balance sheet.
2014 2013
Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases £m £m
Rental payments due within one year 138 134
Rental payments due between one and two years 91 97
Rental payments due between two and three years 73 73
Rental payments due between three and four years 54 58
Rental payments due between four and five years 48 52
Rental payments due after five years 297 363
Total commitments under non-cancellable operating leases 701 777
GSK Annual Report 2014 189Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
continued
41 F inancial instruments and related GSK’s long-term credit rating with Moody’s Investors Service
(‘Moody’s’) is A2 (stable outlook). Standard and Poor’s rate GSK
disclosures
as A+ (stable outlook). The Group’s short-term credit ratings are
GSK reports in Sterling and pays dividends out of Sterling profits. A-1 and P-1 with Standard and Poor’s and Moody’s respectively.
The role of Corporate Treasury is to monitor and manage the
Liquidity risk
external and internal funding requirements and financial risks in
GSK’s policy is to borrow centrally in order to meet anticipated
support of the strategic objectives. GSK operates on a global
funding requirements. The cash flow forecast and funding
basis, primarily through subsidiary companies and manages its
requirements are monitored by the TMG on a monthly basis.
capital to ensure that subsidiaries are able to operate as going
The strategy is to diversify liquidity sources using a range of
concerns and to optimise returns to shareholders through an
facilities and to maintain broad access to funding markets.
appropriate balance of debt and equity. Treasury activities are
governed by policies approved by the Board of Directors, most At 31 December 2014, GSK had £2.9 billion of borrowings
recently on 9 July 2014. repayable within one year and held £4.4 billion of cash and cash
equivalents and liquid investments of which £2.0 billion was held
A Treasury Management Group (TMG) meeting, chaired by the
centrally. GSK also has access to short-term finance under a
Chief Financial Officer, takes place on a monthly basis to review
$10 billion (£6.4 billion) US commercial paper programme and
treasury activities. Its members receive management information
$1.0 billion (£0.7 billion) was in issue under this programme at
relating to these activities. Internal audit reviews the Treasury
31 December 2014. GSK has £1.9 billion five year committed
internal control environment regularly.
medium-term facilities and $2.5 billion (£1.6 billion) of 364 day
GSK uses a variety of financial instruments to finance its committed facilities. These facilities were put in place in
operations and derivative financial instruments to manage September 2012 and September 2014 respectively and were
market risks from these operations. These derivatives, principally undrawn at 31 December 2014. GSK considers this level of
comprising forward foreign currency contracts, foreign exchange committed facilities to be adequate given current liquidity
options and interest rate swaps, are used to swap borrowings and requirements.
liquid assets into currencies required for Group purposes and to
GSK has a £15 billion European Medium Term Note programme
manage exposure to financial risks from changes in foreign
and at 31 December 2014, £8.9 billion of notes were in issue
exchange rates and interest rates.
under this programme. The Group also has a US shelf registration
GSK does not hold or issue derivatives for speculative purposes statement and at 31 December 2014, had $14.0 billion
and the Treasury policies specifically prohibit such activity. All (£9.0 billion) of notes in issue under this programme. GSK’s
transactions in financial instruments are undertaken to manage long-term borrowings mature at dates between 2016 and 2045.
the risks arising from underlying business activities, not for
Each day, GSK sweeps cash from a number of global subsidiaries
speculation.
to central Treasury accounts for liquidity management purposes.
Capital management
Market risk
GSK’s financial strategy supports the Group’s strategic priorities
Interest rate risk management
and is regularly reviewed by the Board. GSK manages the capital
GSK’s objective is to minimise the effective net interest cost and
structure of the Group through an appropriate mix of debt and
to balance the mix of debt at fixed and floating interest rates over
equity. GSK’s financial architecture is designed to ensure we are
time. The policy on interest rate risk management limits the amount
maximising the returns from our sales. There are four key priorities:
of floating interest payments to a prescribed percentage of
sustainable sales growth, operating leverage, financial efficiency
operating profit.
and converting more of our earnings into cash. The free cash flow
generated can then be returned to shareholders or reinvested in GSK used interest rate swaps to redenominate one of its fixed
the business, wherever the returns look most attractive. rate bonds that matured in 2014 into floating interest rates.
The duration of these swaps matched the duration of the principal
GSK’s capital allocation decisions are rigorously benchmarked
instrument. These interest rate derivative instruments were
using a Cash Flow Return on Investment framework.
accounted for as fair value hedges of the relevant liability.
Free cash flow conversion improved to 101% of earnings excluding
Foreign exchange risk management
after-tax legal charges and legal settlements in 2014 from 84%
Foreign currency transaction exposures arising on internal and
in 2013. However free cash flow was lower in 2014 at £2.6 billion
external trade flows are not generally hedged. The Group’s
compared to £4.7 billion in 2013. This reflected the impact of
objective is to minimise the exposure of overseas operating
the strength of Sterling and lower profits, including the impact of
subsidiaries to transaction risk by matching local currency income
divestments. As a consequence of this, as well as £0.7 billion paid
with local currency costs where possible. GSK’s internal trading
to increase the shareholding in the Group’s Indian pharmaceutical
transactions are matched centrally and inter-company payment
subsidiary from 50.7% to 75% and for the acquisition of the
terms are managed to reduce foreign currency risk. Foreign
remaining 30% of GSK’s Indonesian Consumer Healthcare
currency cash flows can be hedged selectively under the
business held by a third party, GSK’s net debt increased from
management of Treasury and the TMG. These include hedges
£12.6 billion at 31 December 2013 to £14.4 billion at 31
of the foreign exchange risk arising from acquisitions and
December 2014.
disposals of assets.
The capital structure of the Group consists of net debt of
£14.4 billion (see Note 32, ‘Net debt’) and shareholders’ equity of
£4.3 billion (see ‘Consolidated statement of changes in equity’ on
page 138). Total capital, including that provided by non-controlling
interests, is £19.3 billion.
190 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
41 F inancial instruments and related GSK actively manages its exposure to credit risk, reducing surplus
disclosures continued cash balances wherever possible. This is part of the Treasury
strategy to regionalise cash management and to concentrate cash
Where possible, GSK manages the cash surpluses or borrowing centrally as much as possible. GSK has continued to maintain its
requirements of subsidiary companies centrally using forward conservative approach to counterparty risk throughout the period.
contracts to hedge future repayments back into the originating The table below sets out the credit exposure to counterparties by
currency. In order to reduce foreign currency translation exposure, rating for liquid investments, cash and cash equivalents and
the Group seeks to denominate borrowings in the currencies of the derivatives. The gross asset position on each derivative contract is
principal assets and cash flows. These are primarily denominated considered for the purpose of this table, although, under ISDA
in US dollars, Euros and Sterling. Certain borrowings can be agreements, the amount at risk is the net position with each
swapped into other currencies as required. Borrowings counterparty. Table (e) on page 197 sets out the Group’s financial
denominated in, or swapped into, foreign currencies that match assets and liabilities on an offset basis.
investments in Group overseas assets may be treated as a hedge
The £1.5 billion of bank balances and deposits invested in Aa3/
against the relevant assets. Forward contracts in major currencies
AA- rated counterparties at 31 December 2014 is significantly
are also used to reduce exposure to the Group’s investment in
lower than the equivalent at 31 December 2013 as a result of the
overseas assets (see ‘Net investment hedges’ section of this note
disposal proceeds received at the end of December 2013.
for further details). The TMG reviews the ratio of borrowings to
Compared to last year, there is a significantly higher amount of bank
assets for major currencies monthly.
balances and deposits held with A3/A- rated counterparties as a
Credit risk result of GSK’s increased bank balances and deposits held with
The Group considers its maximum credit risk at 31 December Deutsche Bank (as a result of introducing more countries into the
2014 to be £9,054 million (31 December 2013 – £10,922 million) European cash pool), which was downgraded to A3/A- during 2014.
which is the total of the Group’s financial assets with the exception
The £116 million of cash held with Baa3/BBB- rated counterparties
of ’Other investments’ (comprising equity investments) which bear
includes bank balances or deposits with HDFC Bank, State Bank
equity risk rather than credit risk. See page 193 for details on the
of India, Halk Bank and Emirates Bank. These counterparties are
Group’s total financial assets. At 31 December 2014, GSK’s
used either for local cash management purposes or for local
greatest concentration of credit risk was £0.9 billion (2013 –
investment purposes where GSK is not the sole shareholder.
£2.6 billion) with HSBC (Aa3/AA-).
The £1 million held with a Ba1/BB+ rated counterparty relates
Treasury-related credit risk
to Islandsbanki, which is used for cash management purposes
GSK sets global counterparty limits for each of GSK’s banking and
in Iceland, and the £3 million of cash held with a Ba2/BB rated
investment counterparties based on long-term credit ratings from
counterparty relates to GSK’s bank balances and deposits held
Moody’s and Standard and Poor’s. Corporate Treasury’s usage of
with Banque Marocaine du Commerce Extérieur.
these limits is monitored daily by a Corporate Compliance Officer
(CCO) who operates independently of Corporate Treasury. Any
breach of these limits would be reported to the CFO immediately.
The CCO also monitors the credit rating of these counterparties
and, when changes in ratings occur, notifies Corporate Treasury so
that changes can be made to investment levels or to authority limits
as appropriate. In addition, relationship banks and their credit ratings
are reviewed regularly and a report is presented annually to the TMG
for approval.
Aa1/AA+ Aa3/AA- A1/A+ A2/A A3/A-Baa1/BBB+ Baa3/BBB- Ba1/BB+ Ba2/BB Total
2014 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m Unrated £m
Bank balances and deposits – 1,514 606 848 438 1 116 1 3 – 3,527
US Treasury and Treasury repo
only money market funds 811 – – – – – – – – – 811
Government securities 69 – – – – – – – – – 69
3rd party financial derivatives – 45 44 19 26 4 – – – – 138
Total 880 1,559 650 867 464 5 116 1 3 – 4,545
Aa1/AA+ Aa3/AA- A1/A+ A2/A A3/A-Baa1/BBB+ Baa3/BBB- Ba1/BB+ Ba2/BB Total
2013 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m Unrated £m
Bank balances and deposits – 2,823 637 967 48 8 157 – – 1 4,641
US Treasury and Treasury repo
only money market funds 893 – – – – – – – – – 893
Corporate debt instruments – 1 – – – – – – – – 1
Government securities 64 – – – – – – – 1 – 65
3rd party financial derivatives – 66 11 54 17 – – – – – 148
Total 957 2,890 648 1,021 65 8 157 – 1 1 5,748
The credit ratings in the above tables are as assigned by Moody’s and Standard and Poor’s respectively. Where the opinion of the two rating
agencies differ, GSK assigns the lower rating of the two to the counterparty. Where local rating agency data is the only source available, the
ratings are converted to global ratings equivalent to those of Moody’s or Standard and Poor’s using published conversion tables.
GSK Annual Report 2014 191Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
continued
41 F inancial instruments and related The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate
disclosures continued the fair values:
• Cash and cash equivalents – approximates to the carrying amount
GSK’s centrally managed cash reserves amounted to £2.0 billion
at 31 December 2014, all available within 3 months. This excludes • Liquid investments – based on quoted market prices or
£0.8 billion centrally managed cash held by ViiV Healthcare, calculated based on observable inputs in the case of marketable
a 78.3% owned subsidiary. The Group has invested centrally securities; based on principal amounts in the case of non-
managed liquid assets in bank deposits and Aaa/AAA rated US marketable securities because of their short repricing periods
Treasury and Treasury repo only money market funds (which bear
• Other investments – equity investments traded in an active
credit exposure to the US Government (Aaa/AA+ rated)).
market determined by reference to the relevant stock exchange
Wholesale and retail credit risk quoted bid price; other equity investments determined by
Outside the USA, no customer accounts for more than 5% of the reference to the current market value of similar instruments or
Group’s trade receivables balance. by reference to the discounted cash flows of the underlying net
assets
In the USA, in line with other pharmaceutical companies, the
Group sells its products through a small number of wholesalers • Short-term loans, overdrafts and commercial paper –
in addition to hospitals, pharmacies, physicians and other groups. approximates to the carrying amount because of the short
Sales to the three largest wholesalers amount to approximately maturity of these instruments
83% of the turnover of the US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines
• Long-term loans – based on quoted market prices in the case
segment and the US elements of the ViiV Healthcare and
of European and US Medium term notes and other fixed rate
Established Products segments. At 31 December 2014, the Group
borrowings (a level 1 fair value measurement); approximates to
had trade receivables due from these three wholesalers totalling
the carrying amount in the case of floating rate bank loans and
£908 million (2013 – £835 million). The Group is exposed to a
other loans
concentration of credit risk in respect of these wholesalers such
that, if one or more of them encounters financial difficulty, it could • Contingent consideration for business acquisitions after
materially and adversely affect the Group’s financial results. 1 January 2010 – based on present values of expected future
cash flows
The Group’s credit risk monitoring activities relating to these
wholesalers include a review of their quarterly financial information • Interest rate swaps, foreign exchange forward contracts and
and Standard & Poor’s credit ratings, development of GSK internal options – based on the present value of contractual cash flows
risk ratings, and establishment and periodic review of credit limits. or option valuation models using market sourced data (exchange
However, the Group believes there is no further credit risk rates or interest rates) at the balance sheet date
provision required in excess of the normal provision for bad and
• Receivables and payables – approximates to the carrying
doubtful debts (see Note 24, ‘Trade and other receivables’).
amount
Fair value of financial assets and liabilities
• Company-owned life insurance policies – based on cash
The table on page 193 presents the carrying amounts and the
surrender value
fair values of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities at
31 December 2014 and 31 December 2013. • Lease obligations – approximates to the carrying amount.
The fair values of the financial assets and liabilities are included at Fair value of investments in GSK shares
the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer At 31 December 2014, the Employee Share Ownership Plan
a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at (ESOP) Trusts held GSK shares with a carrying value of
the measurement date. £151 million (2013 – £355 million) and a fair value of £726 million
(2013 – £1,025 million) based on quoted market price. The
shares represent purchases by the ESOP Trusts to satisfy future
exercises of options and awards under employee incentive
schemes. In 2014, Treasury shares with a fair value of £150 million
were transferred into the UK ESOP Trust to satisfy future awards
under the shareholder approved Performance Share Plan
(see Note 42, ‘Employee share schemes’). The carrying value,
which is the lower of cost or expected proceeds, of these
shares has been recognised as a deduction from other reserves.
At 31 December 2014, GSK held Treasury shares at a cost of
£6,917 million (2013 – £6,829 million) which has been deducted
from retained earnings.
192 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
41 Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
2014 2013
Carrying Fair Carrying Fair
value value value value
Notes £m £m £m £m
Cash and cash equivalents e 4,338 4,338 5,534 5,534
Available-for-sale investments:
Liquid investments:
– Government bonds 69 69 65 65
– other – – 1 1
Total liquid investments a 69 69 66 66
Other investments a 1,114 1,114 1,202 1,202
Loans and receivables:
Trade and other receivables and certain Other non-current
assets in scope of IAS 39 b 4,232 4,232 4,932 4,932
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:
Other non-current assets in scope of IAS 39 a,b 269 269 234 234
Derivatives designated as at fair value through profit or loss a,d,e 76 76 76 76
Derivatives classified as held for trading under IAS 39 a,d,e 70 70 80 80
Total financial assets 10,168 10,168 12,124 12,124
Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost:
Borrowings excluding obligations under finance leases:
– bonds in a designated hedging relationship d (4,124) (4,349) (3,288) (3,531)
– other bonds (13,540) (15,706) (13,034) (14,163)
– bank loans and overdrafts e (379) (379) (352) (352)
– commercial paper (656) (656) (1,491) (1,491)
Total borrowings excluding obligations under finance leases f (18,699) (21,090) (18,165) (19,537)
Obligations under finance leases (85) (85) (80) (80)
Total borrowings (18,784) (21,175) (18,245) (19,617)
Trade and other payables, Other provisions and certain
Other non-current liabilities in scope of IAS 39 c (7,566) (7,566) (7,989) (7,989)
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss:
Trade and other payables, Other provisions and certain
Other non-current liabilities in scope of IAS 39 a,c (1,724) (1,724) (961) (961)
Derivatives designated as at fair value through profit or loss a,d,e (3) (3) (5) (5)
Derivatives classified as held for trading under IAS 39 a,d,e (410) (410) (125) (125)
Total financial liabilities (28,487) (30,878) (27,325) (28,697)
Net financial assets and financial liabilities (18,319) (20,710) (15,201) (16,573)
The valuation methodology used to measure fair value in the above table is described and categorised on page 192. Trade and other
receivables, Other non-current assets, Trade and other payables, Other provisions and Other non-current liabilities are reconciled to
the relevant Notes on page 195.
GSK Annual Report 2014 193Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
continued
41 Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
(a) Financial instruments held at fair value
The following tables categorise the Group’s financial assets and liabilities held at fair value by the valuation methodology applied in
determining their fair value. Where possible, quoted prices in active markets are used (Level 1). Where such prices are not available,
the asset or liability is classified as Level 2, provided all significant inputs to the valuation model used are based on observable market
data. If one or more of the significant inputs to the valuation model is not based on observable market data, the instrument is classified as
Level 3. Other investments classified as Level 3 in the tables below comprise equity investments in unlisted entities with which the Group
has entered into research collaborations and also investments in emerging life science companies. Trade and other payables and Other
non-current liabilities classified as level 3 comprise contingent consideration for business acquisitions.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
At 31 December 2014 £m £m £m £m
Financial assets at fair value
Available–for–sale financial assets:
Liquid investments 67 2 – 69
Other investments 892 – 222 1,114
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:
Other non-current assets – 264 5 269
Derivatives designated as at fair value through profit or loss – 76 – 76
Derivatives classified as held for trading under IAS 39 – 69 1 70
959 411 228 1,598
Financial liabilities at fair value
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss:
Trade and other payables – – (105) (105)
Other non-current liabilities – – (1,619) (1,619)
Derivatives designated as at fair value through profit or loss – (3) – (3)
Derivatives classified as held for trading under IAS 39 – (402) (8) (410)
– (405) (1,732) (2,137)
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
At 31 December 2013 £m £m £m £m
Financial assets at fair value
Available–for–sale financial assets:
Liquid investments 65 1 – 66
Other investments 1,000 – 202 1,202
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:
Other non-current assets – 232 2 234
Derivatives designated as at fair value through profit or loss – 76 – 76
Derivatives classified as held for trading under IAS 39 – 79 1 80
1,065 388 205 1,658
Financial liabilities at fair value
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss:
Trade and other payables – – (3) (3)
Other non-current liabilities – – (958) (958)
Derivatives designated as at fair value through profit or loss – (5) – (5)
Derivatives classified as held for trading under IAS 39 – (124) (1) (125)
– (129) (962) (1,091)
Movements in the year for financial instruments measured using Level 3 valuation methods are presented below:
2014 2013
£m £m
At 1 January (757) (512)
Net losses recognised in the income statement (775) (262)
Net gains recognised in other comprehensive income 155 2
Contingent consideration liabilities for businesses acquired during the year – (1)
Payment of contingent consideration liabilities 7 –
Additions 55 45
Disposals (153) (10)
Transfers from Level 3 (47) (17)
Exchange 11 (2)
At 31 December (1,504) (757)
Net losses of £775 million (2013 – £251 million) attributable to Level 3 financial instruments held at the end of the year were reported in
Other operating income, of which £768 million (2013 – £253 million) arose from remeasurement of the contingent consideration payable for
the acquisition of the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture. Net gains of £nil (2013 – £1 million) were reported in Selling, general
and administration. Net gains attributable to Level 3 equity investments reported in Other comprehensive income as Fair value movements
on available-for-sale investments included £32 million (2013 – £nil) in respect of equity investments held at the end of the year.
194 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
41 Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
The net liability position of £1,504 million (2013 – £757 million) in respect of financial instruments measured using Level 3 valuation
methods at 31 December includes £1,684 million (2013 – £923 million) in respect of contingent consideration payable for the
acquisition in 2012 of the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture. This consideration is expected to be paid over a number of
years and will vary in line with sales of products that contain dolutegravir. Regulatory approval for this product was obtained in the USA
and Canada during 2013 and in the European Union in 2014. The table below shows on an indicative basis the income statement and
balance sheet sensitivity to reasonably possible changes in key inputs to the valuation of this liability.
2014
Increase/(decrease) in financial liability and loss/(gain) in Income statement from change in key inputs £m
10% increase in sales forecasts 186
10% decrease in sales forecasts (187)
1% increase in market interest rates (82)
1% decrease in market interest rates 88
(b) Trade and other receivables and Other non-current assets in scope of IAS 39
The following table reconciles financial instruments within Trade and other receivables and Other non-current assets which fall within
the scope of IAS 39 to the relevant balance sheet amounts. The financial assets are predominantly non-interest earning. Financial
instruments within the Other non-current assets balance include company-owned life insurance policies. Non-financial instruments
includes tax receivables, pension surplus balances and prepayments, which are outside the scope of IAS 39.
2014 2013
At fair value Non- At fair value Non-
through Loans and Financial financial through Loans and Financial financial
profit or loss receivables instruments instruments Total profit or loss receivables instruments instruments Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Trade and other receivables
(Note 24) – 3,921 3,921 679 4,600 – 4,664 4,664 778 5,442
Other non-current assets
(Note 22) 269 311 580 155 735 234 268 502 387 889
269 4,232 4,501 834 5,335 234 4,932 5,166 1,165 6,331
The following table shows the age of such financial assets which are past due and for which no provision for bad or doubtful debts has
been made:
2014 2013
£m £m
Past due by 1–30 days 116 142
Past due by 31–90 days 130 152
Past due by 91–180 days 110 89
Past due by 181–365 days 67 64
Past due by more than 365 days 41 79
464 526
Amounts past due by greater than 90 days and for which no provision for bad or doubtful debts has been made total £218 million
(2013 – £232 million). Of this balance, £45 million (2013 – £133 million) relates to receivables due from state hospital authorities in
Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain. The total receivables due from state hospital authorities in these countries (current and
past due, net of provisions) is £134 million (2013 – £262 million).
(c) Trade and other payables, Other provisions and Other non-current liabilities in scope of IAS 39
The following table reconciles financial instruments within Trade and other payables, Other provisions and Other non-current liabilities
which fall within the scope of IAS 39 to the relevant balance sheet amounts. The financial liabilities are predominantly non-interest
bearing. Accrued wages and salaries are included within financial liabilities. Non-financial instruments includes payments on account,
tax and social security payables and provisions which do not arise from contractual obligations to deliver cash or another financial asset,
which are outside the scope of IAS 39.
2014 2013
At fair value Non- At fair value Non-
through Other Financial financial through Other Financial financial
profit or loss liabilities instruments instruments Total profit or loss liabilities instruments instruments Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Trade and other payables
(Note 27) (105) (7,345) (7,450) (508) (7,958) (3) (7,798) (7,801) (516) (8,317)
Other provisions
(Note 29) – (158) (158) (1,432) (1,590) – (148) (148) (1,396) (1,544)
Other non-current liabilities
(Note 30) (1,619) (63) (1,682) (719) (2,401) (958) (43) (1,001) (703) (1,704)
(1,724) (7,566) (9,290) (2,659) (11,949) (961) (7,989) (8,950) (2,615) (11,565)
GSK Annual Report 2014 195Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
continued
41 Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
(d) Derivative financial instruments and hedging programmes
The following table sets out the fair values of derivatives held by GSK.
2014 2013
Fair value Fair value
Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities
£m £m £m £m
Fair value hedges – Interest rate swaps
(principal amount – £nil (2013 – £904 million)) – – 18 –
Net investment hedges – Foreign exchange contracts
(principal amount – £5,365 million (2013 – £7,221 million)) 74 (1) 58 (1)
Cash flow hedges – Foreign exchange contracts
(principal amount – £133 million (2013 – £92 million)) 2 (2) – (4)
Derivatives designated as at fair value through profit or loss 76 (3) 76 (5)
Foreign exchange contracts
(principal amount – £15,851 million (2013 – £11,651 million)) 68 (399) 74 (120)
Embedded and other derivatives 2 (11) 6 (5)
Derivatives classified as held for trading under IAS 39 70 (410) 80 (125)
Total derivative instruments 146 (413) 156 (130)
Analysed as:
Current 146 (404) 155 (127)
Non-current – (9) 1 (3)
Total 146 (413) 156 (130)
Foreign exchange contracts classified as held for trading under IAS 39
The principal amount on foreign exchange contracts is the absolute total of outstanding positions at the balance sheet date. The Group’s
foreign exchange contracts are for periods of 12 months or less. At 31 December 2014, the Group held outstanding foreign exchange
contracts with a net liability fair value of £331 million (£68 million asset less £399 million liability). At December 2013, the fair value was
£46 million net liability (£74 million asset less £120 million liability).
Following announcement of the proposed Novartis transaction, GSK entered into a number of forward exchange contracts to protect the
Sterling value of the net US Dollar proceeds due to the Group on completion of the transaction. At 31 December 2014 these contracts
were in a loss position and resulted in a liability of £264 million and the recognition of an unrealised loss in the year of £299 million. If
these contracts remain in a loss position on maturity, that loss will partly offset the gain in the expected Sterling value of the proceeds
that will be received by the Group as a result of favourable exchange movements since the inception of the forward contracts. If, on
maturity, the contracts are in a gain position, the gains will partly offset losses in the Sterling value of the proceeds that will be received
by the Group as a result of unfavourable exchange movements since the inception of the forward contracts.
The rest of the increase in the liability has been due to additional hedging of inter-company loans and deposits, external debt and legal
provisions that are not designated as accounting hedges. Fair value movements are taken to the income statement in the period to offset
the exchange gains and losses on the related inter-company lending and borrowing, external debt and legal provisions.
Fair value hedges
The Group had designated a series of interest rate swaps as a fair value hedge. The risk being hedged was the variability of the fair value
of the bond arising from interest rate fluctuations. Gains and losses on fair value hedges are disclosed in Note 12, ‘Finance expense’.
Both the bond and the swaps matured in April 2014. In 2013, the carrying value of bonds in that designated fair value hedging
relationship was £919 million.
Net investment hedges
During the year, certain foreign exchange contracts were designated as net investment hedges in respect of the foreign currency
translation risk arising on consolidation of the Group’s net investment in its European (Euro) and Japanese (Yen) foreign operations as
shown in the table above.
The carrying value of bonds in a designated hedging relationship on page 193 includes £4,124 million (2013 – £2,369 million) that is
designated a hedging instrument in a net investment hedge relationship.
Cash flow hedges
During 2014, the Group continued entering into forward foreign exchange contracts which it designated as cash flow hedges of its
foreign exchange exposure arising on Euro and US dollar denominated coupon payments relating to the Group’s European and US
medium term notes. This is a continuation of the initial hedging put in place in 2013.
In addition, the Group carries a balance in reserves that arose from pre-hedging fluctuations in long-term interest rates when pricing
bonds issued during the year as disclosed in Note 32. Hedging transactions of this nature have been carried out during 2014 and 2013.
The balance is reclassified to finance costs over the life of these bonds.
196 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
41 Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
(e) Offsetting of financial assets and liabilities
The following tables set out the financial assets and financial liabilities which are subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting
arrangements and similar agreements. Amounts which are set off against financial assets and liabilities in the Group’s balance sheet are
set out below. For Trade and other receivables, Trade and other payables, Derivative financial assets and Derivative financial liabilities,
amounts not offset in the balance sheet but which could be offset under certain circumstances are also set out.
Gross Net financial
Gross financial assets/ Related
financial (liabilities)/ (liabilities) amounts not
assets/ assets per balance set off in the
(liabilities) set off sheet balance sheet Net
At 31 December 2014 £m £m £m £m £m
Trade and other receivables 3,926 (5) 3,921 (22) 3,899
Derivative financial assets 146 – 146 (134) 12
Cash and cash equivalents 4,570 (232) 4,338
8,642 (237) 8,405
Trade and other payables (7,455) 5 (7,450) 22 (7,428)
Derivative financial liabilities (413) – (413) 134 (279)
Bank loans and overdrafts (611) 232 (379)
(8,479) 237 (8,242)
Gross Net financial
Gross financial assets/ Related
financial (liabilities)/ (liabilities) amounts not
assets/ assets per balance set off in the
(liabilities) set off sheet balance sheet Net
At 31 December 2013 £m £m £m £m £m
Trade and other receivables 4,698 (34) 4,664 (25) 4,639
Derivative financial assets 156 – 156 (96) 60
Cash and cash equivalents 6,039 (505) 5,534
10,893 (539) 10,354
Trade and other payables (7,835) 34 (7,801) 25 (7,776)
Derivative financial liabilities (130) – (130) 96 (34)
Bank loans and overdrafts (857) 505 (352)
(8,822) 539 (8,283)
The gross financial assets and liabilities set off in the balance sheet primarily relate to cash pooling arrangements with banks. Amounts
which do not meet the criteria for offsetting on the balance sheet but could be settled net in certain circumstances principally relate to
derivative transactions under ISDA (International Swaps and Derivatives Association) agreements where each party has the option to
settle amounts on a net basis in the event of default of the other party.
GSK Annual Report 2014 197Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
continued
41 Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
(f) Debt interest rate repricing table
The following table sets out the exposure of the Group to interest rates on debt, including commercial paper, before and after the effect
of interest rate swaps. The maturity analysis of fixed rate debt is stated by contractual maturity and of floating rate debt by interest rate
repricing dates. For the purpose of this table, debt is defined as all classes of borrowings other than obligations under finance leases.
2014 2013
Effect of Effect of
interest interest
Debt rate swaps Total Debt rate swaps Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Floating and fixed rate debt less than one year (2,915) – (2,915) (2,762) – (2,762)
Between one and two years (800) – (800) (1,932) – (1,932)
Between two and three years (2,244) – (2,244) (751) – (751)
Between three and four years (1,760) – (1,760) (2,237) – (2,237)
Between four and five years (1,154) – (1,154) (1,653) – (1,653)
Between five and ten years (2,827) – (2,827) (1,936) – (1,936)
Greater than ten years (6,999) – (6,999) (6,894) – (6,894)
Total (18,699) – (18,699) (18,165) – (18,165)
Original issuance profile:
Fixed rate interest (17,665) – (17,665) (16,432) 919 (15,513)
Floating rate interest (1,033) – (1,033) (1,732) (919) (2,651)
Total interest bearing (18,698) – (18,698) (18,164) – (18,164)
Non-interest bearing (1) – (1) (1) – (1)
(18,699) – (18,699) (18,165) – (18,165)
The Group no longer holds interest rate swaps, designated as fair value hedges, to convert fixed rate debt into floating. In 2013,
£919 million of fixed rate debt with a maturity of less than one year were hedged in this manner.
(g) Sensitivity analysis
Foreign exchange and interest rate sensitivity analysis has been prepared on the assumption that the amount of net debt, the ratio of
fixed to floating interest rates of the debt and derivatives portfolio and the proportion of financial instruments in foreign currencies are all
constant and on the basis of the hedge designations as at 31 December. Financial instruments affected by market risk include cash and
cash equivalents, borrowings, trade receivables and payables and derivative financial instruments.
The following analyses are intended to illustrate the sensitivity of such financial instruments to changes in foreign exchange and interest rates.
Foreign exchange sensitivity
The table below shows on an indicative basis only the Group’s sensitivity to foreign exchange rates on its US dollar, Euro and Yen
financial instruments.
These three currencies are the major foreign currencies in which GSK’s financial instruments are denominated. GSK has considered
movements in these currencies and has concluded that a 10 cent or 10 yen movement in rates against Sterling is reasonable.
In this analysis, financial instruments are only considered sensitive to foreign exchange rates where they are not in the functional currency
of the entity that holds them. Obligations under finance leases, inter-company loans that are fully hedged to maturity and certain
non-derivative financial instruments not in net debt are excluded as they do not present a material exposure. Foreign exchange sensitivity
on Group assets and liabilities other than financial instruments is not included in the calculation.
For US dollar denominated financial instruments, the movement in the income statement in the table below relates primarily to hedges
of foreign exchange risk on acquisitions and disposals. Cash and cash equivalents, inter-company loans and deposits, inter-company
trading balances, hedging instruments for legal provisions and trade receivables and payables which are not denominated in the
functional currency of the entity that holds them are impacted when the spot rate changes. Whilst the hedging instruments provide
economic hedges, the related remeasurement of legal provisions is not included in the calculation.
2014 2013
Increase/(decrease) in Increase in
income income
Income statement impact of non-functional currency foreign exchange exposures £m £m
10 cent appreciation of the US dollar (2013: 10 cent) (263) 40
10 cent appreciation of the Euro (2013: 10 cent) 11 8
10 yen appreciation of the Yen (2013: 10 yen) – 1
An equivalent depreciation in the above currencies would cause the following increase/(decrease) in income £169 million, £(10) million
and £nil million for US dollar, Euro and Yen exchange rates respectively. (For 2013 it was a decrease in income of £35 million, £6 million
and £1 million).
198 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
41 Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
The movements in equity in the table below relate to hedging instruments (foreign exchange derivatives and external debt) designated as
a net investment hedge to hedge the Group assets denominated in Euro and Yen and cash flow hedges.
2014 2013
Increase/(decrease) in (Decrease) in
equity equity
Equity impact of non-functional currency foreign exchange exposures £m £m
10 cent appreciation of the US dollar (2013: 10 cent) 2 –
10 cent appreciation of the Euro (2013: 10 cent) (762) (840)
10 yen appreciation of the Yen (2013: 10 yen) (18) (21)
An equivalent depreciation in the above currencies would cause the following increase/(decrease) in equity: £(2) million, £652 million
and £16 million for US dollar, Euro and Yen exchange rates respectively (2013 – £nil, £711 million and £19 million).
The table below presents the Group’s sensitivity to foreign exchange rates based on the composition of net debt as shown in Note 32
adjusting for the effects of foreign exchange derivatives that are not part of net debt but affect future foreign currency cash flows.
2014 2013
(Increase)/decrease in (Increase)/decrease in
net debt net debt
Impact of foreign exchange movements on net debt £m £m
10 cent appreciation of the US dollar (2013: 10 cent) (446) (447)
10 cent appreciation of the Euro (2013: 10 cent) 227 289
10 yen appreciation of the Yen (2013: 10 yen) 11 10
An equivalent depreciation in the above currencies would have the following impact on net debt: £392 million, £(195) million and
£(9) million for US dollar, Euro and Yen exchange rates respectively (2013 – £396 million, £(244) million and £(9) million).
Interest rate sensitivity
The table below shows on an indicative basis only the Group’s sensitivity to interest rates on its floating rate Sterling, US dollar and
Euro financial instruments, being issued debt, bank borrowings, cash and cash equivalents and liquid investments. GSK has considered
movements in these interest rates over the last three years and has concluded that a 1% (100 basis points) increase is a reasonable
benchmark. Debt and bank borrowings with a maturity of less than one year is floating rate for this calculation. In 2013, interest rate
movements on derivative financial instruments designated as fair value hedges were deemed to have an immaterial effect on the Group
Income Statement due to compensating amounts in the carrying value of debt. These hedges and the hedged bond matured in 2014.
A 1% (100 basis points) movement in interest rates is not deemed to have a material effect on equity.
2014 2013
Increase/(decrease) in Increase/(decrease) in
income income
Income statement impact of interest rate movements £m £m
1% (100 basis points) increase in Sterling interest rates (2013: 1%) (19) 13
1% (100 basis points) increase in US dollar interest rates (2013: 1%) 19 16
1% (100 basis points) increase in Euro interest rates (2013: 1%) 5 (8)
These interest rates could not be decreased by 1% as they are currently less than 1.0%. The maximum increase/(decrease) in income would
therefore be limited to £9 million, £1 million and £1 million for Sterling, US Dollar and Euro interest rates respectively (2013 –(£5) million, £nil and
£2 million). The decrease in interest income is due to lower levels of cash at the balance sheet date and less Euro net investment hedging activity
with foreign exchange forward contracts.
(h) Contractual cash flows for non-derivative financial liabilities and derivative instruments
The following tables provides an analysis of the anticipated contractual cash flows including interest payable for the Group’s non-derivative
financial liabilities on an undiscounted basis. The impact of interest rate swaps has been excluded. For the purpose of this table, debt is defined
as all classes of borrowings except for obligations under finance leases. Interest is calculated based on debt held at 31 December without
taking account of future issuance. Floating rate interest is estimated using the prevailing interest rate at the balance sheet date. Cash flows
in foreign currencies are translated using spot rates at 31 December. Contractual cash flows in respect of operating lease vacant space
provisions are excluded from the table below as they are included in the Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases table in
Note 40, ‘Commitments’.
Finance charge Trade payables
Obligations on obligations and other
Interest on under finance under finance liabilities not
Debt debt leases leases in net debt Total
At 31 December 2014 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Due in less than one year (2,917) (678) (29) (2) (7,489) (11,115)
Between one and two years (801) (623) (21) (2) (251) (1,698)
Between two and three years (2,251) (611) (18) (1) (219) (3,100)
Between three and four years (1,763) (497) (12) (1) (273) (2,546)
Between four and five years (1,163) (447) (3) – (324) (1,937)
Between five and ten years (2,859) (2,074) (2) – (1,969) (6,904)
Greater than ten years (7,085) (4,814) – – (1,734) (13,633)
Gross contractual cash flows (18,839) (9,744) (85) (6) (12,259) (40,933)
GSK Annual Report 2014 199Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
continued
41 Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Contractual cash flows for non-derivative financial liabilities and derivative instruments
Finance charge Trade payables
Obligations on obligations and other
Interest on under finance under finance liabilities not
Debt debt leases leases in net debt Total
At 31 December 2013 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Due in less than one year (2,747) (674) (27) (2) (7,797) (11,247)
Between one and two years (1,936) (650) (22) (2) (108) (2,718)
Between two and three years (753) (594) (14) (2) (85) (1,448)
Between three and four years (2,246) (582) (8) (1) (116) (2,953)
Between four and five years (1,657) (467) (4) – (149) (2,277)
Between five and ten years (1,958) (2,032) (5) – (1,282) (5,277)
Greater than ten years (6,984) (5,064) – – (1,440) (13,488)
Gross contractual cash flows (18,281) (10,063) (80) (7) (10,977) (39,408)
The increase in contractual cash flows for non-derivative financial liabilities of £1.5 billion over the year results principally from an
increase of £1.7 billion in forecast future cash flows in respect of contingent consideration payable for the acquisition of the former
Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture in 2012.
The table below provides an analysis of the anticipated contractual cash flows for the Group’s derivative instruments, excluding
embedded derivatives and equity options which are not material, using undiscounted cash flows. Cash flows in foreign currencies are
translated using spot rates at 31 December. The gross cash flows of foreign exchange contracts are presented for the purposes of this
table, though, in practice, the Group uses standard settlement arrangements to reduce its liquidity requirements on these instruments.
The amounts receivable and payable in less than one year have increased compared to 31 December 2013 due to higher levels of
hedging of inter-company loans, hedging of acquisitions and disposals denominated in foreign currency and external debt. This is
reflected in the increased principal amounts shown in the table below. All contractual cash flows for derivative instruments are due in
less than one year.
2014 2013
Receivables Payables Receivables Payables
£m £m £m £m
Gross contractual cash flows due in less than one year 21,586 (21,841) 18,890 (18,871)
42 Employee share schemes
The Group operates share option schemes, whereby options are granted to employees to acquire shares or ADS in GlaxoSmithKline plc
at the grant price, savings-related share option schemes and share award schemes. In addition, GSK operates the Performance Share
Plan, whereby awards are granted to employees to acquire shares or ADS in GlaxoSmithKline plc at no cost, subject to the achievement
by the Group of specified performance targets and the Share Value Plan, whereby awards are granted to employees to acquire shares
or ADS in GlaxoSmithKline plc at no cost after a three year vesting period. The granting of restricted share awards has replaced the
granting of options to employees as the cost of the scheme more readily equates to the potential gain to be made by the employee.
Grants under share option schemes are normally exercisable between three and ten years from the date of grant. Grants of restricted
shares and share awards are normally exercisable at the end of the three year vesting/performance period. Grants under savings-related
share option schemes are normally exercisable after three years’ saving. Grants under share option schemes and awards under the
Performance Share Plan are normally granted to employees to acquire shares or ADS in GlaxoSmithKline plc but in some circumstances
will be settled in cash. Options under the share option schemes were granted at the market price ruling at the date of grant. In
accordance with UK practice, the majority of options under the savings-related share option schemes are granted at a price 20% below
the market price ruling at the date of grant.
Option pricing
For the purposes of valuing options to arrive at the share based payment charge, the Black-Scholes option pricing model has been used.
The assumptions used in the model for 2012, 2013 and 2014 are as follows:
2014 2013 2012
Risk-free interest rate 0.7% 0.7% 0.1% – 0.5%
Dividend yield* 5.8% 5.3% 5.2%
Volatility 19% 20% 18% – 23%
Expected lives of savings-related share options and share award schemes 3-4 years 3-4 years 3-4 years
Weighted average share price for grants in the year:
Shares £14.14 £15.59 £14.49
* 0% for those plans where dividends are reinvested.
200 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
42 Employee share schemes continued
Volatility is determined based on the three and five year share price history where appropriate. The fair value of performance share
plan grants take into account market conditions. Expected lives of options were determined based on weighted average historic
exercises of options.
Share option Share option Savings-related
Options outstanding
schemes – shares schemes – ADS share option schemes
Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted
Number exercise fair Number exercise fair Number exercise fair
000 price value 000 price value 000 price value
At 1 January 2012 60,370 £12.62 44,890 $43.50 1,570 £9.68
Options granted – – – – – – 4,210 £11.59 £1.76
Options exercised (12,473) £11.97 (9,698) $39.33 (1,230) £9.67
Options lapsed (5,168) £13.28 (4,593) $45.99 (89) £9.82
At 31 December 2012 42,729 £12.72 30,599 $44.36 4,461 £11.48
Options granted – – – – – – 1,092 £12.47 £2.33
Options exercised (20,355) £12.78 (12,099) $41.62 (241) £9.79
Options lapsed (2,112) £12.63 (1,192) $42.94 (210) £11.34
At 31 December 2013 20,262 £12.68 17,308 $46.37 5,102 £11.78
Options granted – – – – – – 1,181 £11.31 £1.92
Options exercised (3,907) £12.14 (4,548) $43.11 (126) £11.65
Options lapsed (591) £12.33 (520) $48.13 (547) £11.97
At 31 December 2014 15,764 £12.82 12,240 $47.50 5,610 £11.66
Range of exercise prices on
options outstanding at year end £11.47 – £14.93 $33.42 – $58.00 £11.31 – £12.47
Weighted average market
price on exercise £15.44 $51.61 £15.67
Weighted average remaining
contractual life 3.2 years 2.7 years 2.0 years
Options outstanding Share option Share option Savings-related
at 31 December 2014 schemes – shares schemes – ADS share option schemes
Weighted Latest Weighted Latest Weighted Latest
Number exercise exercise Number exercise exercise Number exercise exercise
Year of grant 000 price date 000 price date 000 price date
2005 50 £13.05 01.11.15 134 $47.40 01.11.15 – – –
2006 2,453 £14.69 28.07.16 2,575 $51.40 28.07.16 – – –
2007 2,937 £14.80 26.07.17 3,814 $57.59 26.07.17 – – –
2008 2,444 £11.49 23.07.18 1,961 $45.05 23.07.18 – – –
2009 3,286 £11.76 22.07.19 1,479 $33.72 22.07.19 – – –
2010 4,594 £12.03 22.07.20 2,277 $37.28 22.07.20 – – –
2011 – – – – – – – – –
2012 – – – – – – 3,586 £11.59 01.06.16
2013 – – – – – – 845 £12.47 01.06.17
2014 – – – – – – 1,179 £11.31 01.06.18
Total 15,764 £12.82 12,240 $47.50 5,610 £11.66
Options normally become exercisable from three years from the date of grant but may, under certain circumstances, vest earlier as set
out within the various scheme rules.
There has been no change in the effective exercise price of any outstanding options during the year.
Options exercisable Share option Share option Savings-related
schemes – shares schemes – ADS share option schemes
Weighted Weighted Weighted
Number exercise Number exercise Number exercise
000 price 000 price 000 price
At 31 December 2012 33,930 £12.90 24,706 $46.10 261 £9.72
At 31 December 2013 20,262 £12.68 17,308 $46.37 – –
At 31 December 2014 15,764 £12.82 12,240 $47.50 – –
GSK Annual Report 2014 201Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
continued
42 Employee share schemes continued
GlaxoSmithKline share award schemes
Performance Share Plan
The Group operates a Performance Share Plan whereby awards are granted to Directors and senior executives at no cost. The percentage of
each award that vests is based upon the performance of the Group over a defined measurement period with dividends reinvested during the
same period. For awards granted in 2012 and 2013 to Directors and members of the CET, the performance conditions are based on four equally
weighted measures over a three year performance period. The first measure is based on the achievement of adjusted free cash flow targets.
The second measure is based on relative TSR performance against a comparator group. The remaining two measures are based on business-
specific performance measures on business diversification and R&D new product performance. For details on the calculation of these
measures, see the Remuneration report on pages 96 to 128.
For awards granted in 2014 onwards, the performance conditions are based on three equally weighted measures over a three year
performance period. These are adjusted free cashflow, TSR and R&D new product performance.
For those awards made to all other eligible employees the performance conditions are based on GSK’s EPS growth to the increase
in the UK Retail Prices Index over the three year measurement period and adjusted free cashflow. In addition, some businesses have
an element of their award based on a strategic or operational business measure, over a three year measurement period, specific to
the employee’s business area.
The fair value of the awards is determined based on the closing share price on the day of grant. For TSR performance elements,
this is adjusted by the likelihood of that condition being met, as assessed at the time of grant.
Shares Weighted ADS Weighted
Number of shares and ADS issuable Number (000) fair value Number (000) fair value
At 1 January 2012 10,541 3,926
Awards granted 4,268 £11.43 1,420 $37.63
Dividends reinvested 529 225
Awards exercised (1,388) (485)
Awards cancelled (1,794) (710)
At 31 December 2012 12,156 4,376
Awards granted 4,483 £13.36 1,352 $42.41
Dividends reinvested 722 251
Awards exercised (1,022) (453)
Awards cancelled (2,977) (1,041)
At 31 December 2013 13,362 4,485
Awards granted 4,147 £15.48 1,251 $52.40
Dividends reinvested 673 211
Awards exercised (2,654) (1,059)
Awards cancelled (2,734) (929)
At 31 December 2014 12,794 3,959
Share Value Plan
The Group operates a Share Value Plan whereby awards are granted, in the form of shares, to certain employees at no cost. The awards
vest after two and a half to three years and there are no performance criteria attached. The fair value of these awards is determined
based on the closing share price on the day of grant, after deducting the expected future dividend yield over the duration of the award.
Shares Weighted ADS Weighted
Number of shares and ADS issuable Number (000) fair value Number (000) fair value
At 1 January 2012 19,458 14,081
Awards granted 11,411 £11.96 7,595 $38.51
Awards exercised (4,650) (3,410)
Awards cancelled (901) (478)
At 31 December 2012 25,318 17,788
Awards granted 12,011 £14.76 7,681 $46.04
Awards exercised (5,324) (4,009)
Awards cancelled (938) (622)
At 31 December 2013 31,067 20,838
Awards granted 12,410 £12.65 7,842 $41.56
Awards exercised (9,642) (6,787)
Awards cancelled (923) (666)
At 31 December 2014 32,912 21,227
202 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
42 Employee share schemes continued
Employee Share Ownership Plan Trusts
The Group sponsors Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) Trusts to acquire and hold shares in GlaxoSmithKline plc to satisfy
awards made under employee incentive plans and options granted under employee share option schemes. The trustees of the ESOP
Trusts purchase shares with finance provided by the Group by way of loans or contributions. In 2014, Treasury shares with a fair value of
£150 million were transferred into the UK ESOP Trust to satisfy future awards under the shareholder approved Performance Share Plan.
Costs of running the ESOP Trusts are charged to the income statement. Shares held by the ESOP Trusts are deducted from other reserves
and held at the value of proceeds receivable from employees on exercise. If there is deemed to be a permanent diminution in value this is
reflected by a transfer to retained earnings. The Trusts also acquire and hold shares to meet notional dividends re-invested on deferred
awards under the SmithKline Beecham Mid-Term Incentive Plan. The trustees have waived their rights to dividends on the shares held by
the ESOP Trusts.
Shares held for share award schemes 2014 2013
Number of shares (000) 52,595 63,613
£m £m
Nominal value 13 16
Carrying value 150 354
Market value 724 1,024
Shares held for share option schemes 2014 2013
Number of shares (000) 139 139
£m £m
Nominal value – –
Carrying value 1 1
Market value 2 1
43 Proposed Novartis transaction
On 22 April 2014, GSK announced a three-part inter-conditional transaction with Novartis AG involving its Consumer Healthcare,
Vaccines and Oncology businesses.
As part of this proposed transaction, GSK and Novartis will create a new Consumer Healthcare business over which GSK will have
majority control, with an equity interest of 63.5%. In addition, GSK will acquire Novartis’ global Vaccines business (excluding influenza
vaccines) for an initial cash consideration of $5.25 billion with subsequent potential milestone payments of up to $1.8 billion and
ongoing royalties.
GSK will also divest its marketed Oncology portfolio, related R&D activities and rights to its AKT inhibitors and also grant
commercialisation partner rights for future oncology products to Novartis for an aggregate cash consideration of $16 billion. Under
the terms of the transaction, up to $1.5 billion of the purchase price may have to be returned to Novartis if certain conditions relating
to the COMBI-d trial are not met. Following the positive outcome from this study announced on 6 February 2015, GSK believes
these conditions will be satisfied.
The transaction is expected to be completed in the week commencing 2 March 2015.
GSK Annual Report 2014 203Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
continued
44 Principal Group companies
The following represent the principal subsidiaries and associates of the GlaxoSmithKline Group at 31 December 2014. Details are given
of the principal country of operation, the location of the headquarters, the business sector and the business activities. The equity share
capital of these entities is wholly owned by the Group except where its percentage interest is shown otherwise. All companies are
incorporated in their principal country of operation except where stated.
Europe Location Subsidiary Sector Activity %
England Brentford GlaxoSmithKline Holdings Limited * Ph,CH h
Brentford GlaxoSmithKline Services Unlimited * Ph,CH s
Brentford GlaxoSmithKline Mercury Limited * Ph h
Brentford GlaxoSmithKline Finance plc Ph,CH f
Brentford GlaxoSmithKline Capital plc Ph,CH f
Brentford SmithKline Beecham Limited Ph,CH d e h m p r
Brentford Wellcome Limited Ph,CH h
Brentford Glaxo Group Limited Ph h
Brentford Glaxo Operations UK Limited Ph p
Brentford GlaxoSmithKline Export Limited Ph e
Brentford GlaxoSmithKline Research & Development Limited Ph d r
Brentford GlaxoSmithKline UK Limited Ph m p
Brentford Setfirst Limited Ph,CH h
Brentford GlaxoSmithKline Trading Services Limited (i) (iv) Ph e
Brentford ViiV Healthcare Limited Ph h 78
Brentford ViiV Healthcare UK Limited Ph m s 78
Austria Vienna GlaxoSmithKline Pharma GmbH Ph m
Belgium Wavre GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals S.A. Ph d m
Rixensart GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals S.A. Ph d e m p r
Czech Republic Prague GlaxoSmithKline s.r.o. Ph,CH m
Finland Espoo GlaxoSmithKline Oy Ph m
France Marly le Roi Groupe GlaxoSmithKline S.A.S. Ph h
Marly le Roi Laboratoire GlaxoSmithKline S.A.S. Ph m r d
Marly le Roi GlaxoSmithKline Sante Grand Public S.A.S. CH e m
Marly le Roi ViiV Healthcare S.A.S. Ph m 78
St. Amand Les Eaux GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals S.A.S. Ph p
Germany Buehl GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare GmbH & Co. KG CH m s
Munich GlaxoSmithKline GmbH & Co. KG Ph d h m s
Greece Athens GlaxoSmithKline A.E.B.E Ph,CH m
Italy Verona GlaxoSmithKline S.p.A. Ph d m
Milan GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare S.p.A. CH m
Netherlands Zeist GlaxoSmithKline B.V. Ph m
Zeist GlaxoSmithKline Far East B.V. Ph,CH h
Poland Poznan GSK Services Sp.z o.o. Ph m s
Republic of Carrigaline SmithKline Beecham (Cork) Limited (i) Ph d p r
Ireland Dublin GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (Ireland) Limited (i) CH m
Dublin GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited (i) Ph m
Dungarvan Stafford Miller (Ireland) Limited (i) CH p
Dungarvan GlaxoSmithKline Dungarvan Limited (i) CH p
Sligo Stiefel Laboratories (Ireland) Limited (i) Ph p
Romania Brasov Europharm Holding S.A. Ph,CH m s
Russian Moscow GlaxoSmithKline Trading ZAO Ph m
Federation
Spain Madrid GlaxoSmithKline S.A. Ph m
Switzerland Muenchenbuchsee GlaxoSmithKline AG Ph m
USA
USA Research Triangle Park Stiefel Laboratories, Inc. Ph h m p
Marietta Corixa Corporation Ph p
Philadelphia GlaxoSmithKline LLC Ph,CH d e h m p r s
Pittsburgh GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare, L.P. CH m 88
Pittsburgh Block Drug Company, Inc. CH h m
Wilmington GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (Americas) Inc. Ph,CH h
Wilmington GlaxoSmithKline Capital Inc. Ph,CH f
Research Triangle Park ViiV Healthcare Company Ph m 78
Rockville Human Genome Sciences, Inc. Ph p
204 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
44 Principal Group companies continued
Americas Location Subsidiary Sector Activity %
Canada Mississauga GlaxoSmithKline Inc. Ph m p
Mississauga GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Inc. CH m
Laval ID Biomedical Corporation of Quebec Ph d e p r
Mexico Mexico City GlaxoSmithKline Mexico S.A. de C.V. Ph,CH e m p
Asia Pacific
Australia Boronia GlaxoSmithKline Australia Pty Ltd Ph,CH d e m p r
China Beijing GlaxoSmithKline (China) Investment Co. Ltd Ph,CH d h m r s
Hong Kong GlaxoSmithKline Limited Ph,CH m
Tianjin Sino-American Tianjin Smith Kline & French Laboratories Ltd CH e m p 55
India Mumbai GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Limited Ph d m p 75
Gurgaon GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Limited CH d e m p r s 72
Malaysia Selangor GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Sdn Bhd CH m
Pakistan Karachi GlaxoSmithKline Pakistan Limited Ph,CH e m p r 83
Philippines Makati GlaxoSmithKline Philippines Inc Ph,CH d e m
Singapore Singapore Glaxo Wellcome Manufacturing Pte Ltd Ph d e p r s
Singapore GlaxoSmithKline Pte Ltd Ph,CH d e m s
South Korea Seoul GlaxoSmithKline Korea Limited Ph ,CH m r
Thailand Bangkok GlaxoSmithKline (Thailand) Limited Ph,CH m
Japan
Japan Tokyo GlaxoSmithKline K.K. Ph,CH d m p
Latin America
Argentina Buenos Aires GlaxoSmithKline Argentina S.A. Ph,CH e m p r
Brazil Rio de Janeiro GlaxoSmithKline Brasil Limitada Ph,CH d e m p
Colombia Bogota GlaxoSmithKline Colombia S.A. Ph,CH m
Venezuela Caracas GlaxoSmithKline Venezuela, C.A. Ph,CH m
Middle East & Africa
Nigeria Lagos GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Nigeria plc (ii) Ph,CH e m p 46
Saudi Arabia Jeddah Glaxo Saudi Arabia Limited Ph p 49
South Africa Johannesburg GlaxoSmithKline South Africa (Pty) Limited Ph,CH d e m p
Turkey Istanbul GlaxoSmithKline Ilaclari Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S. Ph,CH m
Middle East & Africa Location Associate Sector Activity %
South Africa Johannesburg Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Limited (iii) Ph,CH m p r 12
(i) E xempt from the provisions of section 7 of the Companies (Amendment) Act 1986 (Ireland). In addition to those subsidiary
companies scheduled in the table above, Stiefel Distributors (Ireland) Limited; SmithKline Beecham (Manufacturing) Limited;
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Investments (Ireland) Limited; GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Investments (Ireland)
(No. 2); GlaxoSmithKline Investments (Ireland) Limited and GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Ireland IP Limited are also
exempt from these provisions as they are consolidated in the group financial statements.
(ii) C onsolidated as a subsidiary in accordance with section 1162 (4)(a) of the Companies Act 2006 on the grounds
of dominant influence.
(iii) E quity accounted on the grounds of significant influence.
(iv) I ncorporated in Ireland.
* Directly held wholly owned subsidiary of GlaxoSmithKline plc.
Key
Business sector: Ph Pharmaceuticals CH Consumer Healthcare
Business activity: d development e exporting f finance h holding company i insurance
m marketing p production r research s service
The subsidiaries and associates listed above principally affect the figures in the Group’s financial statements. Full details of all Group
subsidiaries and associates will be attached to the company’s Annual Return to be filed with the UK Registrar of Companies. Each of
GlaxoSmithKline Capital Inc. and GlaxoSmithKline Capital plc is a wholly-owned finance subsidiary of the company, and the company
has fully and unconditionally guaranteed the securities issued by each of GlaxoSmithKline Capital Inc. and GlaxoSmithKline Capital plc.
GSK Annual Report 2014 205Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
continued
45 Legal proceedings On 29 December 2010, Anchen notified the Group that it had filed
an ANDA for Jalyn with a Paragraph IV certification alleging that
The Group is involved in significant legal and administrative the ‘467 patent was invalid, unenforceable or not infringed. Jalyn,
proceedings, principally product liability, intellectual property, a combination of dutasteride and tamsulosin, is covered by the
tax, anti-trust and governmental investigations, as well as related same three patents that cover Avodart. Subsequently, the Group
private litigation. The Group makes provision for these proceedings received similar notices from Impax Laboratories, Inc. (Impax) and
on a regular basis as summarised in Note 2, ‘Accounting principles Watson challenging one or more of the patents covering Jalyn.
and policies’ and Note 29, ‘Other provisions’. The Group may
become involved in significant legal proceedings in respect of The Group filed suit against Anchen, Banner, Impax, Mylan,
which it is not possible to make a reliable estimate of the expected Roxane and Watson in the United States District Court for the
financial effect, if any, that could result from ultimate resolution of District of Delaware for infringement of the Avodart and Jalyn
the proceedings. In these cases, appropriate disclosures about patents, as applicable, and the cases were consolidated for trial.
such cases would be included, but no provision would be made. On 31 August 2012, the Group filed a separate suit against Apotex
in the same court for infringement of the ‘467 patent. This case
With respect to each of the legal proceedings described below, was not consolidated with the original case against the other
other than those for which a provision has been made, the Group generic defendants. On 31 May 2013, the Court ordered that the
is unable to make a reliable estimate of the expected financial Apotex case would be stayed pending the entry of judgment in the
effect at this stage. The Group does not believe that information Banner et al case, and Apotex subsequently agreed to be bound
about the amount sought by the plaintiffs, if that is known, would by the outcome of the consolidated cases. On 17 January 2013,
be meaningful with respect to those legal proceedings. This is due the Group and Anchen settled the litigation on terms that would
to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the stage of allow Anchen to enter the market for Jalyn in the fourth quarter of
proceedings, the entitlement of parties to appeal a decision and 2015 or earlier under certain circumstances. The Group previously
clarity as to theories of liability, damages and governing law. had settled an earlier patent challenge against Avodart by Teva
Intellectual property claims include challenges to the validity Pharmaceuticals (Teva) on terms that will allow Teva to launch its
and enforceability of the Group’s patents on various products generic dutasteride product in the fourth quarter of 2015 or earlier
or processes as well as assertions of non-infringement of those under certain circumstances. Teva’s generic dutasteride product
patents. A loss in any of these cases could result in loss of patent was approved by the FDA on 21 December 2010.
protection for the product at issue. The consequences of any such
loss could be a significant decrease in sales of that product and A trial on the consolidated case against the generic defendants
could materially affect future results of operations for the Group. was held on 28 January 2013. On 13 August 2013, the District
Court upheld the validity of the ‘467 patent. Banner, Impax, Mylan,
Legal expenses incurred and provisions related to legal claims are Roxane and Watson appealed the decision in favour of the Group
charged to selling, general and administration costs. Provisions to the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
are made, after taking appropriate legal and other specialist on 27 August 2013. On 24 February 2014, the Federal Circuit
advice, where an outflow of resources is considered probable entered a decision in favour of the Group affirming the decision
and a reliable estimate can be made of the likely outcome of the of the District Court and concluding the matter.
dispute. For certain product liability claims, the Group will make
Benlysta
a provision where there is sufficient history of claims made and
settlements to enable management to make a reliable estimate of Human Genome Sciences, Inc. (HGS), a Group company, holds
the provision required to cover unasserted claims. At 31 December a European Patent covering 18 countries, including the UK, which
2014, the Group’s aggregate provision for legal and other disputes covers antibodies that bind to BLyS, defined in functional terms.
(not including tax matters described in Note 14, ‘Taxation’) was Eli Lilly and Company (Eli Lilly) previously had challenged the
£0.5 billion. The ultimate liability for legal claims may vary from the validity of this patent, but the patent has been upheld by the
amounts provided and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation European Patent Office and the UK courts, and these validity
proceedings, investigations and possible settlement negotiations. challenges have concluded.
The Group’s position could change over time, and, therefore, Eli Lilly also had requested a declaration that any Supplementary
there can be no assurance that any losses that result from the Protection Certificate (SPC) filed by HGS to extend the term of
outcome of any legal proceedings will not exceed by a material this patent for five years, based upon Eli Lilly’s future Marketing
amount the amount of the provisions reported in the Group’s Authorisation (MA) for an anti-BLyS antibody, will be invalid. The
financial statements. If this were to happen, it could have a material UK High Court denied Lilly’s motion in July 2014. On 2 October
adverse impact on the results of operations of the Group in the 2014, Eli Lilly announced that it was ceasing the development of
reporting period in which the judgments are incurred or the its anti-BLyS antibody. HGS applied to have the appeal dismissed
settlements entered into. The most significant of these matters and, on 14 November 2014, Eli Lilly consented not to appeal the
are described below. Court’s decision, thus ending the litigation.
Intellectual property Epzicom/Trizivir/Kivexa
Avodart/Jalyn On 30 November 2007, the Group’s affiliate, ViiV Healthcare,
On 29 November 2010, Banner Pharmacaps, Inc. (Banner) notified received notice that Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. (Teva)
the Group that it had filed an Abbreviated New Drug Application had filed an ANDA with a Paragraph IV certification for Epzicom
(ANDA) to market a generic version of Avodart (dutasteride) in the (the combination of lamivudine and abacavir). The certification
USA. Banner’s notification contained a Paragraph IV certification challenged only the patent covering the hemisulfate salt of abacavir,
alleging that two patents expiring in 2013 and one patent expiring which expires in 2018. ViiV Healthcare did not sue Teva under this
in 2015 (the ‘467 patent) covering the compound dutasteride were patent. On 27 June 2011, ViiV Healthcare received notice that Teva
invalid or not infringed by Banner’s proposed generic dutasteride had amended its ANDA for Epzicom to contain a Paragraph IV
product. The Group subsequently received similar notices from certification for two additional patents listed in the Orange Book,
Anchen Pharmaceuticals (Anchen), Apotex (Apotex), Roxane alleging the patents were invalid, unenforceable or not infringed.
Laboratories (Roxane), Watson Laboratories, Inc (Watson), The patents challenged in this new certification relate to a method of
and Mylan Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Mylan) each variously treating HIV using the combination (expiring in 2016), and a certain
challenging either the ‘467 patent or all three patents. crystal form of lamivudine (expiring in 2016). On 5 August 2011, ViiV
Healthcare filed suit against Teva under the combination patent in
the United States District Court for the District of Delaware.
206 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
45 Legal proceedings continued As well as challenging the validity of the underlying patents,
Teva is challenging the SPCs on the basis that they are invalid
On 18 May 2011, ViiV Healthcare received notice that Lupin Ltd. due to a failure to comply with the requirements of Article 3(d)
(Lupin) had filed an ANDA containing a Paragraph IV certification of Regulation (EC) No. 469/2009 (the SPC Regulation) (‘Teva’s
for Trizivir (the triple combination of lamivudine, abacavir and Article 3(d) contention’). These cases are pending. In Germany,
zidovudine) alleging that three patents listed in the Orange oral hearing has been set for 19 May 2015, and in France, oral
Book for Trizivir were invalid, unenforceable or not infringed. hearing has been set for 15 December 2015. A final hearing
These patents relate to a method of treating HIV using the triple date has yet to be set in Italy.
combination (expiring in 2016), the hemisulfate salt of abacavir
(expiring in 2018), and a certain crystal form of lamivudine On 26 November 2014, ViiV Healthcare commenced an action
(expiring in 2016). On 29 June 2011, ViiV Healthcare filed suit in the UK against Teva for a declaration that Teva’s Article 3(d)
against Lupin under the patent covering the triple combination contention concerning the Kivexa SPC is incorrect. An interim
in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. hearing is scheduled for 25 March 2015 to determine whether
The District Court consolidated the case relating to Epzicom questions regarding the SPC Regulation should be referred to
with the case relating to Trizivir. the Court of Justice for the European Union.
On 17 December 2013, the United States District Court for Lexiva
the District of Delaware upheld the validity of the US patent On 23 April 2012, Ranbaxy Laboratories Limited (Ranbaxy)
with an expiry date in March 2016 which covers the combination notified ViiV Healthcare that it had filed a Paragraph IV certification
of lamivudine and abacavir (Epzicom) and the triple combination alleging that a patent claiming a polymorphic form of fosamprenavir
of lamivudine, abacavir and zidovudine (Trizivir). In a separate calcium, the active ingredient in Lexiva, was invalid or not infringed.
component to the decision, the judge ruled that the Lupin generic The patent expires in 2020. ViiV Healthcare did not sue under this
version of Trizivir did not infringe the patent. Lupin subsequently patent.
launched its generic version of Trizivir. Teva earlier had stipulated On 30 July 2012, Mylan Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Mylan) notified
that its generic version of Epzicom would infringe the patent, and ViiV Healthcare that it had filed an ANDA for Lexiva with a
the District Court enjoined Teva from launching its generic version Paragraph IV certification asserting that patents claiming (i)
of Epzicom until the expiration of the patent. The parties appealed the active ingredient (expiring in 2018) and (ii) a polymorphic form
the judgments. On 12 February 2015, the United States Court of the active ingredient (expiring 2020), are invalid, unenforceable,
of Appeals for the Federal Circuit affirmed the decision of the or not infringed. Mylan is the second generic company to file an
District Court. ANDA for Lexiva, but the first generic company to challenge the
On 6 February 2014, ViiV Healthcare received notice that Lupin basic compound patent on the active ingredient. On 23 August
had filed an ANDA containing a Paragraph IV certification for 2012, ViiV Healthcare and its licensor, Vertex Pharmaceuticals
Epzicom, alleging that the three patents listed in the Orange Incorporated, filed a patent infringement suit against Mylan on the
Book for Epzicom are either invalid, unenforceable or not infringed. patent claiming the active ingredient (but not the patent claiming
ViiV Healthcare filed suit against Lupin on 3 March 2014, alleging the polymorph) in the United States District Court for the District
infringement of both the patent covering the combination of of Delaware. On 26 May 2014, the parties settled the case on
lamivudine and abacavir and the patent covering the hemisulfate terms that are confidential.
salt of abacavir. A trial date has been set for 18 April 2016. On 18 October 2012, Ranbaxy filed a petition for an Inter Partes
On 2 June 2014, Apotex filed a Petition requesting Inter Partes Review (IPR) alleging that the patent claiming the active ingredient
Review (IPR) of the combination patent covering Epzicom and for Lexiva is invalid. On 5 March 2013, the USPTO granted
Trizivir. The United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) Ranbaxy’s petition. The IPR was settled October 2014 on terms
granted the petition on 8 December 2014 which initiates an IPR that are confidential.
of the patent by the USPTO. On 8 January 2015, Teva filed a On 10 December 2014, Lupin Limited filed a petition with the
petition with the USPTO to join the proceedings. USPTO for an IPR alleging that the compound patent covering
Teva Canada and Apotex have each challenged patents for the active ingredient for Lexiva is invalid. The USPTO has not yet
Kivexa (lamivudine/abacavir) listed on the Canadian Patent ruled on whether the petition for the IPR will be granted.
Register. ViiV Healthcare filed suit for infringement against each Product liability
party under the patent covering the combination of lamivudine and Pre-clinical and clinical trials are conducted during the
abacavir and the patent covering the hemisulfate salt of abacavir. development of potential products to determine the safety and
A ruling that the hemisulfate salt patent was improperly listed has efficacy of products for use by humans following approval by
resulted in the de-listing of such patent from the Canadian Patent regulatory bodies. Notwithstanding these efforts, when drugs
Register. ViiV Healthcare has appealed this ruling. Notwithstanding and vaccines are introduced into the marketplace, unanticipated
this ruling, the infringement cases against Teva Canada and safety issues may become, or be claimed by some to be, evident.
Apotex relating to the validity of the combination and hemisulfate The Group is currently a defendant in a number of product liability
salt patents will proceed; a hearing on the infringement case lawsuits related to the Group’s Pharmaceutical, Vaccine and
against Teva Canada has been scheduled for 27 April 2015, Consumer Healthcare products. The most significant of those
and a hearing on the infringement case against Apotex has matters are described below.
been scheduled for December 2015.
The Group has been able to make a reliable estimate of the
In addition, Teva has challenged the claims of the combination expected financial effect of the matters discussed in this category
patent covering Kivexa in Germany, France and Italy. There is also and has included a provision, as appropriate, for the matters below
related litigation ongoing in the United Kingdom. The combination in the provision for legal and other disputes. Matters for which the
patent litigation involving ViiV Healthcare and Teva commenced Group has made a provision are also noted in Note 29, ‘Other
in Germany in December 2013, in France in June 2014, and in provisions’.
Italy in September 2014. The combination patent expires across
Europe in 2016. In addition, ViiV Healthcare has a corresponding
Supplementary Protection Certificate (SPC) for Kivexa (but not
Trizivir) that does not expire until late 2019.
GSK Annual Report 2014 207Strategic
report
Governance
& remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
continued
45 Legal proceedings continued In June 2013, the Group was informed that the Legal Aid
Agency (LAA) (formerly the Legal Services Commission) was
Avandia considering whether to discharge the public funding certificate
The Group has been named in product liability lawsuits on behalf following the recommendation of its Special Cases Review Panel
of individuals asserting personal injury claims arising out of the use that the case has poor prospects of success. On 29 January
of Avandia. The federal cases filed against the Group are part of 2015, the LAA discharged the public certificate, effectively
a multi-district litigation proceeding pending in the United States ending the group action.
District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania (the ‘MDL
Court’). Cases have also been filed in a number of state courts. Poligrip
Beginning in 2005, a number of product liability lawsuits and claims
As of February 2015, the Group has reached agreements to were filed against the Group in both state and federal courts in the
settle the substantial majority of federal and state cases pending USA, including purported class actions, alleging that the zinc in
in the US. 15 purported class actions on Avandia are pending Super Poligrip causes copper depletion and permanent neurologic
in Canada. The Group has reached an agreement in principle to injury. The federal cases were consolidated in the Denture Cream
resolve the single purported consumer class action in Israel, which Adhesive multi-district litigation (MDL) in the United States District
has now been approved by the Court. In the UK, litigation against Court for the Southern District of Florida which was established in
the Group has ended following the formal discontinuance of the June 2009. The original four putative class actions in the MDL have
claims of the majority of the claimants and a court order striking been dismissed. In 2013, a putative class action was filed in Puerto
the claims of the remaining claimants. Rico, which was removed to federal court and transferred to the
There are four purported class actions seeking economic damages MDL where it remains pending as of February 2015.
on behalf of third party payers asserting claims arising under With two current exceptions (one state court case in
various state and federal laws, including the Racketeer Influenced Pennsylvania, and one state court case in small claims court in
and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO), state unfair trade practices Tennessee), all other state court cases were consolidated in the
and/or consumer protection laws. The MDL Court denied the Philadelphia state court Mass Tort Program (MTP). As of February
Group’s motion to dismiss three of the third party payer actions, 2015, there are no cases currently pending against GSK in the
and the fourth action has been stayed. The Group has appealed Philadelphia MTP. The vast majority of individual cases have been
the decision to the United States Court of Appeals for the Third dismissed, with seven active individual cases and one putative
Circuit. One consumer class action brought on behalf of Missouri class action in the MDL, and two state court cases, still pending
residents remains pending in the MDL Court. Humana Medical against the Group in the USA.
Group (Humana) has brought two separate subrogation actions,
one as a purported class action in the MDL Court. The MDL In Canada, one individual lawsuit and five purported class actions
Court has denied class certification. United Health Group, Inc. asserting consumer fraud claims have also been filed. Of those,
has brought a separate subrogation action against the Group. the individual lawsuit and one putative class action have been
dismissed. In addition, there are a few filed and unfiled claims in
Paxil/Seroxat and Paxil CR Turkey, the UK and elsewhere. The Group voluntarily withdrew all
The Group has received numerous lawsuits and claims alleging zinc-containing formulations of Super Poligrip from the market in
that use of Paxil (paroxetine) has caused a variety of injuries. early 2010.
Most of these lawsuits in recent years have alleged that the use
of Paxil during pregnancy resulted in the birth of a child with birth Sales and marketing and regulation
defects or health issues. Other lawsuits and claims have alleged The Group has been able to make a reliable estimate of the expected
that patients who took Paxil committed or attempted to commit financial effect of the matters discussed in this category, and has
suicide or acts of violence or that patients suffered symptoms included a provision for such matters in the provision for legal and
on discontinuing treatment with Paxil. other disputes, except as noted below. Matters for which the Group
has made a provision are also noted in Note 29, ‘Other provisions’.
• Pregnancy
China investigation
The Group has reached agreements to settle the substantial
majority of the US claims relating to the use of Paxil during On 19 September 2014, the Group announced that the Changsha
pregnancy as of February 2015, but a number of claims related to Intermediate People’s Court in Hunan Province, China ruled that
use during pregnancy are still pending in various courts in the US. according to Chinese law, GSK China Investment Co. Ltd
Other matters have been dismissed without payment. Currently, (GSKCI) had offered money or property to non-government
there are three trials scheduled in 2015. personnel in order to obtain improper commercial gains, and
been found guilty of bribing non-government personnel. The
There are two proposed, and one certified, class actions in verdict followed investigations initiated by China’s Ministry of
Canada. The action that has been certified as a national class Public Security in June 2013. As a result of the Court’s verdict,
action is in British Columbia and relates to cardiovascular defects. GSKCI paid a fine of RMB 3 billion (£301 million) to the
An appeal from that certification decision was dismissed in Chinese government.
October 2013, and the case is scheduled to be tried in October
SEC/DOJ and SFO Anti-Corruption enquiries
2016.
The US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the US
• Acts of violence Department of Justice (DOJ) initiated an industry-wide enquiry in
As of February 2015, there were eight pending matters, including 2010 into whether pharmaceutical companies may have engaged
one lawsuit on appeal (pending in the United States Court of in violations of the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA)
Appeals for the Ninth Circuit) concerning allegations that patients relating to the sale of pharmaceuticals, including in Argentina,
who took Paxil committed or attempted to commit suicide or acts Brazil, Canada, China, Germany, Italy, Poland, Russia and Saudi
of violence. Currently, there are no trials scheduled for 2015. Arabia. The Group is one of the companies that has been asked to
• Discontinuation respond to this enquiry and is cooperating with the SEC and DOJ.
In the UK, in late 2010, public funding was withdrawn from the The Group has informed the DOJ and SEC about the investigation
claimants who had received funding to pursue litigation alleging of its China operations by the Chinese government that was
that Paxil/Seroxat had caused them to suffer from withdrawal initiated in 2013 and the outcome of that investigation.
reactions and dependency. The majority of the claimants
discontinued their claims.
208 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
45 Legal proceedings continued On 12 August 2013, the Group removed the case to the United
States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania and
The Group also has advised the UK Serious Fraud Office (SFO) has moved to dismiss the complaint. Oral argument on the motion
regarding the investigation of its China operations by the Chinese to dismiss was held on 4 February 2013. The case has been
government and the outcome of that investigation. The SFO stayed pending the decision of the United States Court of Appeals
has requested information from the Group on its commercial for the Third Circuit on an overlapping, potentially dispositive
operations in a number of countries. On 27 May 2014, the issue in the Group’s third-party payer litigation regarding Avandia.
SFO informed the Group that it had formally opened a criminal The Group has made no provision for this matter.
investigation into the Group’s practices. The Group is responding
to the SFO’s requests. The Group is unable to make a reliable The manufacturing issues at the Group’s plant at Cidra were the
estimate of the expected financial effect of these investigations, subject of federal and state claims that the Group resolved with
and no provision has been made for them. the US federal Government in 2010 and for which the Group has
compliance obligations under a Corporate Integrity Agreement
US State Sales and Marketing Investigations with the US Government.
After the Group concluded an agreement in 2012 with the United
Paxil/Seroxat
States Government, multiple states and the District of Columbia
to conclude the Group’s most significant ongoing United States In 2004, the Group settled a lawsuit filed by the New York State
federal government investigations, the Group was notified by Attorney General’s office alleging that the Group failed to disclose
a consortium of US state attorneys general that they were data on the use of Paxil in children and adolescents. In 2007 and
investigating the conduct underlying the Group’s 2012 federal 2008, the Group made class settlements of lawsuits brought by
and state settlements related to products other than Avandia to consumers and third-party payers, respectively, for economic
determine if the Group violated state unfair and deceptive trade damages allegedly resulting from prescriptions of Paxil to children
practices statutes. The Group has resolved these allegations with and adolescents. The Group denied liability in these settlements.
47 states and the District of Columbia through civil settlement In 2010, plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed a similar purported class
agreements. No other state attorney general actions are pending action filed on behalf of governmental entities that paid for
related to this matter. prescriptions of Paxil to minors.
Avandia There remains a similar purported class action in Canada
The Group is defending an action by the County of Santa Clara, seeking economic damages on behalf of individuals who
California, which was brought under California’s consumer purchased Paxil for use by patients under the age of 18. The
protection laws seeking civil penalties and restitution as a result certification application as part of this purported class action
of the Group’s marketing of Avandia. Pre-trial activities are was adjourned in 2012 to permit the filing of further evidence
continuing. If the case proceeds to trial, the MDL Court will and is likely to resume in 2015.
send the case back to California federal court for a bench trial. Anti-trust/competition
Seven lawsuits were filed on behalf of Native American tribes The Group has been able to make a reliable estimate of the
relating to the sale and marketing of Avandia and other Group expected financial effect of the matters discussed in this category
products. The Group resolved all claims by and against these and has included a provision for such matters in the provision for
groups in December 2014. legal and other disputes, except as noted below. Matters for which
the Group has made a provision are also noted in Note 29, ‘Other
Average wholesale price provisions’.
A number of states through their respective Attorneys General,
and most of the counties in New York State, filed civil lawsuits EU sector enquiry
in state and federal courts against the Group and many other In 2008, the European Commission launched an enquiry
pharmaceutical companies claiming damages and restitution due to investigate possible anti-competitive conditions in the
to average wholesale price (AWP) and/or wholesale acquisition pharmaceutical sector. The Final Report of the Pharmaceutical
cost (WAC) price reporting for pharmaceutical products covered Sector Inquiry was published on 8 July 2009. As announced in
by the states’ Medicaid programmes. These cases alleged that the the Final Report, the Commission decided to continue monitoring
Group reported or caused to be reported false AWP and WAC patent settlement agreements between originator and generic
prices, which, in turn, allegedly caused state Medicaid agencies companies relating to EU markets. As a result, the Group has
to reimburse providers more money for covered medicines than provided input to the reports published in 2010, 2011, 2012,
the agencies intended. The states have sought recovery on behalf 2013 and 2014. No provision has been made for this matter.
of the states as payers and, in some cases, on behalf of in-state UK Competition and Markets Authority investigation
patients as consumers. The Group has resolved AWP claims On 12 August 2011, the UK Office of Fair Trading (now known as
by state Medicaid programmes in almost all of the states through the Competition and Markets Authority (CMA)) launched a formal
the Group’s settlement agreement with the federal government investigation of the Group and other pharmaceutical companies
announced in September 2005 and in multiple additional for potential infringement of the Competition Act. The investigation
settlements since then. Litigation concerning AWP issues focuses on whether: (i) litigation settlements between the Group
is continuing with two states, Illinois and Wisconsin. No trial and potential suppliers of generic paroxetine formulations, entered
involving the Group is scheduled for 2015. between 2001 and 2003, had as their object or effect the
Cidra third-party payer litigation prevention, restriction, or distortion of competition in the UK,
On 25 July 2013, a number of major US healthcare insurers and (ii) the Group has infringed its dominant position by making
filed suit against the Group in the Philadelphia, Pennsylvania payments to potential suppliers of generic paroxetine with the aim
County Court of Common Pleas seeking compensation for of restricting the development of full generic competition in the UK.
reimbursements they made for medicines manufactured at the The Group terminated the agreements at issue in 2004. The CMA
Group’s former Cidra plant in Puerto Rico. These insurers claim investigation covers issues that were also investigated by the
that the Group knowingly and illegally marketed and sold European Commission in 2005 – 2006 in respect of paroxetine
adulterated drugs manufactured under conditions non-compliant in the European Union, and also in 2008, as part of the European
with cGMP and that they, as third-party insurers, were unlawfully Commission Pharmaceutical Sector enquiry.
induced to pay for them. The suit alleges both US federal and
various state law causes of action.
GSK Annual Report 2014 209Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
continued
45 Legal proceedings continued The complaint alleges that Stiefel and its officers and directors
violated the US Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA)
On 2 March 2012, the Commission announced that it had formally and federal and state securities laws by inducing Stiefel employees
concluded its enquiry with no further action. In March 2012, the to sell their shares in the employee stock plan back to Stiefel at a
CMA decided to focus its investigation on potential anti-competitive greatly undervalued price and without disclosing to employees that
aspects of the paroxetine settlement agreements and dropped the Stiefel was about to be sold to the Group. On 21 July 2011, the
investigation in relation to potential abuse of dominance. However, District Court denied plaintiffs’ motion for class certification.
in February 2013, the CMA decided to re-open the dominance
aspects of the matter. In October 2011, the District Court granted the defendants’
motions for summary judgment, dismissing all but one of the
The Group has cooperated with the CMA in its investigations remaining plaintiffs in the litigation. Trial of claims of that one
since the outset. On 19 April 2013, the CMA issued its Statement plaintiff, Timothy Finnerty, took place in May 2012 and resulted in
of Objections (SO) setting out the decision that the CMA would a $1.5 million jury verdict in favour of Mr. Finnerty on his securities
propose to make and allowing the affected parties to make claims (separately, the Group settled Mr. Finnerty’s ERISA claims).
representations on the proposed decision. In the SO, the CMA The Group appealed the verdict, but the Court of Appeals for the
states that it would propose a fine on the Group, but no details Eleventh Circuit affirmed the verdict on 30 June 2014. A petition
were provided on how any fine might be calculated. On 7 August for certiorari has been filed with the US Supreme Court.
2013, the Group submitted its response to the SO, rebutting the Additionally, Stiefel won a complete defence verdict in the Fried
CMA’s arguments. On 21 October 2014, the CMA issued a case, tried in federal court in Florida in October 2013. Plaintiff
Secondary Statement of Objections, amending its “theory of appealed that verdict to the Eleventh Circuit, and a decision from
harm”. The Group responded on 2 December 2014. At a “State that Court is pending. Two other Stiefel cases pending in Florida
of Play” meeting on 22 January 2015, the CMA informed the now have been dismissed: the Bacon case, settled by the Group
Group that no final decision has been made, but that it will in January 2015, and MacKay (in which summary judgment was
continue its investigation. The CMA’s website indicates that granted in favour of the Group, a ruling that was later upheld by
a final decision will be made in late spring 2015. If the CMA the 11th Circuit). The remaining case in Florida (Martinolich) is
decides to fine the Group, the CMA’s decision may be appealed scheduled for trial in August 2015. Discovery continues in the
to the Competition Appeal Tribunal. Georgia and New York suits. All of these lawsuits involve claims
Lamictal similar to those brought in Finnerty.
Purported direct and indirect purchaser class actions were filed In addition to the private litigant suits, on 12 December 2011,
in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filed a formal
alleging that the Group and Teva Pharmaceuticals unlawfully complaint against Stiefel and Charles Stiefel in the United States
conspired to delay generic competition for Lamictal, resulting District Court for the District of Florida alleging that Stiefel and
in their being overcharged. A separate count accuses the Group its principals violated federal securities laws by inducing Stiefel
of monopolising the market. The District Court denied the motion employees to sell their shares in the employee stock plan back to
of the purported direct purchaser class for reconsideration of the the company at a greatly undervalued price and without disclosing
order granting the Group’s motion to dismiss in December 2012. to employees that the company was about to be sold. This matter
The plaintiffs have appealed this decision to the United States has been stayed pending a final ruling on the Finnerty appeal.
Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit, and oral argument was heard The Group has made a provision for the Stiefel litigation.
on 18 November 2014. We await decision by the Third Circuit.
Environmental matters
The action by the purported indirect purchase class has been
suspended pending a decision on the direct purchasers’ appeal. The Group has been notified of its potential responsibility relating
to past operations and its past waste disposal practices at certain
Wellbutrin XL sites, primarily in the USA. Some of these matters are the subject
Actions have been filed against Biovail Corporation (Biovail) of litigation, including proceedings initiated by the US federal or
and the Group in the United States District Court for the Eastern state governments for waste disposal, site remediation costs and
District of Pennsylvania by purported classes of direct and indirect tort actions brought by private parties.
purchasers who allege unlawful monopolisation and other anti-
trust violations related to the enforcement of Biovail’s patents for The Group has been advised that it may be a responsible party
Wellbutrin XL and the filing, by Biovail, of citizen petitions. Both at approximately 22 sites, of which 11 appear on the National
direct and indirect purchaser classes have been certified, although Priority List created by the Comprehensive Environmental
a motion to decertify the indirect purchaser class remains pending. Response Compensation and Liability Act (Superfund). These
The District Court granted the Group’s motion for partial summary proceedings seek to require the operators of hazardous waste
judgment primarily on immunity grounds. facilities, transporters of waste to the sites and generators of
hazardous waste disposed of at the sites to clean up the sites
The sole remaining claim relates to plaintiffs’ allegations that the or to reimburse the US Government for cleanup costs. In most
Group entered into an anti-competitive reverse payment settlement instances, the Group is involved as an alleged generator of
to resolve the patent infringement litigation. Dispositive motions hazardous waste.
in connection with the remaining issue in the case are due on
20 March 2015. Although Superfund provides that the defendants are jointly
and severally liable for clean up costs, these proceedings are
Commercial and corporate frequently resolved on the basis of the nature and quantity of waste
Where the Group is able to make a reliable estimate of the disposed of by the generator at the site. The Group’s proportionate
expected financial effect, if any, for the matters discussed in this liability for cleanup costs has been substantially determined for
category, it has included a provision in respect of such matters 18 of the sites referred to above.
in the provision for legal and other disputes as set out in Note 29,
‘Other provisions’. The Group’s potential liability varies greatly from site to site. While
the cost of investigation, study and remediation at such sites could,
Securities/ERISA class actions – Stiefel over time, be significant, the Group routinely accrues amounts
On 6 July 2009, a class action suit brought on behalf of current related to its share of the liability for such matters.
and former employees of Stiefel Laboratories, Inc. (Stiefel),
a Group company, was filed in the United States District Court
for the Southern District of Florida.
210 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc
prepared under UK GAAP
Directors’ statement of responsibilities Disclosure of information to auditors
in relation to the company’s financial The Directors in office at the date of this Annual Report have each
confirmed that:
statements
• so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit information
The Directors are responsible for preparing the parent company, of which the company’s auditors are unaware; and
GlaxoSmithKline plc, financial statements and the Remuneration
• he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have
report in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any
UK company law requires the Directors to prepare financial relevant audit information and to establish that the company’s
statements for each financial year. Under that law the Directors auditors are aware of that information.
have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance
in accordance with United Kingdom Accounting Standards and
with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
applicable law (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice). Under company law the Directors must not approve the Going concern basis
parent company financial statements unless they are satisfied that After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable
they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company expectation that the company has adequate resources to continue
for that period. in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason,
they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required
financial statements.
to:
The UK Corporate Governance Code
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them
The Board considers that GlaxoSmithKline plc applies the
consistently;
principles and provisions of the UK Corporate Governance
• make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable Code maintained by the Financial Reporting Council, as described
and prudent; in the Corporate Governance section on pages 78 to 95, and
has complied with its provisions. The Board further considers
• state with regard to the parent company financial statements
that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and
that applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed,
understandable, and provides the information necessary for
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in
shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, business
the parent company financial statements;
model and strategy.
• prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis
As required by the Financial Conduct Authority’s Listing Rules,
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue
the auditors have considered the Directors’ statement of
in business.
compliance in relation to those points of the UK Corporate
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Governance Code which are specified for their review.
records that are sufficient to show and explain the company’s
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the
financial position of the company and to enable them to ensure that
the parent company financial statements and Remuneration report
comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible Sir Christopher Gent
for safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for taking Chairman
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and 26 February 2015
other irregularities.
The parent company financial statements for the year ended
31 December 2014, comprising the balance sheet for the year
ended 31 December 2014 and supporting notes, are set out
on pages 213 to 216 of this report.
The responsibilities of the auditors in relation to the parent
company financial statements are set out in the Independent
Auditors’ report on page 212.
The financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014
are included in the Annual Report, which is published in printed
form and made available on our website. The Directors are
responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Annual Report
on our website in accordance with UK legislation governing the
preparation and dissemination of financial statements. Access to
the website is available from outside the UK, where comparable
legislation may be different.
The Strategic Report and risk sections of the Annual Report
include a fair review of the development and performance of the
business and the position of the company and the Group taken
as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and
uncertainties that it faces.
GSK Annual Report 2014 211Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Independent Auditor’s report
to the members of GlaxoSmithKline plc
Report on the parent company financial Responsibilities for the financial statements
statements and the audit
Our Opinion Our responsibilities and those of the directors
In our opinion, the parent company financial statements defined As explained more fully in the Directors’ statement of
below: responsibilities set out on page 211, the directors are responsible
• give a true and fair view of the state of the parent company’s for the preparation of the financial statements and for being
affairs as at 31 December 2014; satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
• have been properly prepared in accordance with United Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements (UK & Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the
of the Companies Act 2006. Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
What we have audited This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only
GlaxoSmithKline plc’s financial statements comprise: for the company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter
• the Company balance sheet as at 31 December 2014; and 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume
• the notes to the Company balance sheet, which include a
responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom
summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory
this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where
information.
expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the
preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and What an audit of financial statements involves
United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs (UK & Ireland).
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice). An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable
Other required reporting
assurance that the financial statements are free from material
Consistency of other information misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes
Companies Act 2006 opinion an assessment of:
In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report • whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent
and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the and adequately disclosed;
financial statements.
• the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting by the directors; and
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland)
(‘ISAs (UK & Ireland)’) we are required to report to you if, in • the overall presentation of the financial statements.
our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the
• materially inconsistent with the information in the audited directors’ judgements against available evidence, forming our
financial statements; or own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial
• apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially statements.
inconsistent with, our knowledge of the company acquired
We test and examine information, using sampling and other
in the course of performing our` audit; or
auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to
• otherwise misleading. provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtain
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls,
substantive procedures or a combination of both.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and
explanations received In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the
if, in our opinion: audited financial statements and to identify any information that is
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent
• we have not received all the information and explanations we
with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the
require for our audit; or
audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent
or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been
received from branches not visited by us; or Other matter
• the financial statements and the part of the Directors’
We have reported separately on the group financial statements
Remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with
of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year ended 31 December 2014.
the accounting records and returns.
The company has passed a resolution in accordance with section
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
506 of the Companies Act 2006 that the senior statutory auditor’s
Directors’ remuneration name should not be stated.
Directors’ Remuneration report – Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ Remuneration report to be PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
Companies Act 2006. London
26 February 2015
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you
if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration
specified by law are not made. We have no exceptions to report
arising from this responsibility.
212 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Company balance sheet – UK GAAP
at 31 December 2014
2014 2013
Notes £m £m
Fixed assets – investments E 19,691 19,691
Debtors F 10,900 3,358
Cash at bank 2 12
Current assets 10,902 3,370
Creditors: amounts due within one year G (1,799) (531)
Net current assets 9,103 2,839
Total assets less current liabilities 28,794 22,530
Provisions for liabilities H (25) –
Net assets 28,769 22,530
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital I 1,339 1,336
Share premium account I 2,759 2,595
Other reserves J 1,420 1,420
Profit and loss account J 23,251 17,179
Equity shareholders’ funds 28,769 22,530
The financial statements on pages 213 to 216 were approved by the Board on 26 February 2015 and signed on its behalf by
Sir Christopher Gent
Chairman
GlaxoSmithKline plc
Registered number: 3888792
GSK Annual Report 2014 213Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the company balance sheet – Expenditure
UK GAAP Expenditure is recognised in respect of goods and services
received when supplied in accordance with contractual terms.
A) Presentation of the financial statements Provision is made when an obligation exists for a future liability
Description of business in respect of a past event and where the amount of the obligation
GlaxoSmithKline plc is the parent company of GSK, a major global can be reliably estimated.
healthcare group which is engaged in the creation and discovery,
Investments in subsidiary companies
development, manufacture and marketing of pharmaceutical
Investments in subsidiary companies are held at cost less any
products, including vaccines, over-the-counter (OTC) medicines
provision for impairment.
and health-related consumer products.
Impairment of investments
Preparation of financial statements
The carrying value of investments are reviewed for impairment
The financial statements, which are prepared on a going concern
when there is an indication that the investment might be impaired.
basis, are drawn up in accordance with UK Generally Accepted
Any provision resulting from an impairment review is charged to
Accounting Practice (UK GAAP) and with UK accounting
the income statement in the year concerned.
presentation as at 31 December 2014, with comparative figures
as at 31 December 2013. Where appropriate, comparative figures Share based payments
are reclassified to ensure a consistent presentation with current The issuance by the company to its subsidiaries of a grant over
year information. the company’s shares, represents additional capital contributions
by the company in its subsidiaries. An additional investment in
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006,
subsidiaries results in a corresponding increase in shareholders’
the profit and loss account of the company is not presented
equity. The additional capital contribution is based on the fair value
in this Annual Report. of the grant issued, allocated over the underlying grant’s vesting
The company is included in the Group financial statements of period.
GlaxoSmithKline plc, which are publicly available. Advantage
Taxation
has been taken of the exemption provided by FRS 1 ‘Cash flow
Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid
statements (revised 1996)’ not to prepare a cash flow
applying tax rates that have been enacted or substantively
statement and of the exemption provided by FRS 8 ‘Related
enacted by the balance sheet date.
party disclosures’ not to disclose any related party transactions
within the Group. The company accounts for taxation which is deferred or
accelerated by reason of timing differences which have originated
Accounting convention and standards
but not reversed by the balance sheet date. Deferred tax assets
The balance sheet has been prepared using the historical
are only recognised to the extent that they are considered
cost convention and complies with applicable UK accounting recoverable against future taxable profits.
standards.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected
Accounting principles and policies
to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected
The preparation of the balance sheet in conformity with generally
to reverse. Deferred tax liabilities and assets are not discounted.
accepted accounting principles requires management to make
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of Financial guarantees
assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and Liabilities relating to guarantees issued by the company on behalf
liabilities at the date of the balance sheet. Actual amounts could of its subsidiaries are initially recognised at fair value and
differ from those estimates. amortised over the life of the guarantee.
The balance sheet has been prepared in accordance with the Legal and other disputes
company’s accounting policies approved by the Board and The company provides for anticipated settlement costs where
described in Note B. an outflow of resources is considered probable and a reliable
estimate may be made of the likely outcome of the dispute and
B) Accounting policies
legal and other expenses arising from claims against the company.
Foreign currency transactions
Foreign currency transactions are recorded at the exchange rate C) Operating profit
ruling on the date of transaction, or at the forward rate if hedged A fee of £11,523 (2013 – £10,299) relating to the audit of the
by a forward exchange contract. Foreign currency assets and company has been charged in operating profit.
liabilities are translated at rates of exchange ruling at the balance
D) Dividends
sheet date, or at the forward rate.
The directors declared four interim dividends resulting in a
Dividends paid and received dividend for the year of 80 pence, a 2 pence increase on the
Dividends paid and received are included in the financial dividend for 2013. For further details, see Note 16 to the Group
statements in the period in which the related dividends are financial statements, ‘Dividends’.
actually paid or received.
214 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the company balance sheet – UK GAAP continued
E) Fixed assets – investments
2014 2013
£m £m
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Services Unlimited 613 613
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (One) Limited 18 18
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Holdings Limited 17,888 17,888
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Mercury Limited 33 33
18,552 18,552
Capital contribution relating to share based payments 1,139 1,139
19,691 19,691
F) Debtors
2014 2013
£m £m
Amounts due within one year:
UK Corporation tax recoverable 205 203
Other receivables 3 –
Deferred tax recoverable 205 –
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 10,055 2,761
10,468 2,964
Amounts due after more than one year:
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 432 394
10,900 3,358
The deferred tax asset arises as a result of the recognition of deferred tax on tax losses expected to be used on completion of the
Novartis transaction.
G) Creditors
2014 2013
£m £m
Amounts due within one year:
Bank overdraft – 10
Other creditors 497 460
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 1,302 61
1,799 531
The company has guaranteed debt issued by one of its subsidiary companies for which it receives an annual fee from the subsidiary.
In aggregate, the company has outstanding guarantees over $9 billion of debt instruments.
The amounts due from the subsidiary companies in relation to these guarantee fees will be recovered over the life of the bonds and are
disclosed within debtors (see Note F).
H) Provisions for liabilities
2014 2013
£m £m
At 1 January – –
Charge for the year 148 –
Utilised (138) –
Other movements 15 –
At 31 December 25 –
The provisions for liabilities relate to a number of legal and other disputes in which the company is currently involved.
GSK Annual Report 2014 215Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the company balance sheet – UK GAAP continued
I) Called up share capital and share premium account
Share
premium
Ordinary Shares of 25p each
account
Number £m £m
Share capital authorised
At 31 December 2013 10,000,000,000 2,500
At 31 December 2014 10,000,000,000 2,500
Share capital issued and fully paid
At 1 January 2013 5,397,595,969 1,349 2,022
Issued under employee share schemes 44,610,727 12 573
Share capital cancelled (100,000,000) (25) –
At 31 December 2013 5,342,206,696 1,336 2,595
Issued under employee share schemes 13,090,536 3 164
At 31 December 2014 5,355,297,232 1,339 2,759
31 December 31 December
2014 2013
000 000
Number of shares issuable under outstanding options 88,801 91,303
Number of unissued shares not under option 4,555,902 4,566,351
At 31 December 2014, of the issued share capital, 52,734,605 shares were held in the ESOP Trusts, 491,515,950 shares were held
as Treasury shares and 4,811,046,677 shares were in free issue. All issued shares are fully paid. The nominal, carrying and market
values of the shares held in the ESOP Trusts are disclosed in Note 42, ‘Employee share schemes’.
A total of 15 million shares were purchased by the company during 2014 at a cost of £238 million.
J) Reserves
Other Profit and
reserves loss account Total
£m £m £m
At 1 January 2013 1,393 22,401 23,794
Profit attributable to shareholders – (38) (38)
Dividends to shareholders – (3,680) (3,680)
Shares purchased and cancelled or held as Treasury shares 25 (1,504) (1,479)
Capital contribution relating to share based payments 2 – 2
At 31 December 2013 1,420 17,179 18,599
Profit attributable to shareholders – 10,003 10,003
Dividends to shareholders – (3,843) (3,843)
Shares purchased and held as Treasury shares – (238) (238)
Treasury shares transferred to the ESOT held by a subsidiary company – 150 150
At 31 December 2014 1,420 23,251 24,671
The profit of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year was £10,003 million (2013 – £38 million loss), which after dividends of £3,843 million
(2013 – £3,680 million), gave a retained profit of £6,160 million (2013 – £3,718 million loss). After the cost of shares purchased
and held as Treasury shares of £238 million (2013 – £1,504 million) and the effect of the £150 million Treasury shares transferred
to a subsidiary company (2013 – £nil), the profit and loss account reserve at 31 December 2014 stood at £23,251 million
(2013 – £17,179 million), of which £4,096 million is unrealised (2013 – £4,096 million).
K) Adoption of Financial Reporting Standard (FRS) 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’
Following the publication of FRS 100 ‘Application of Financial Reporting Requirements’, GlaxoSmithKline plc is required to change its
accounting framework for its entity financial statements, which is currently UK GAAP, for its financial year commencing 1 January 2015.
It considers that it is in the best interests of the Group for GlaxoSmithKline plc to adopt FRS 101. No disclosures in the current financial
statements would be omitted on adoption of FRS 101.
216 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Investor
information
In this section
Quarterly trend 218
Five year record 222
Product development pipeline 225
Products, competition and
intellectual property 229
Risk factors 232
Share capital and share price 242
Dividends 244
Tax information for shareholders 244
Annual General Meeting 2015 245
US law and regulation 247
Shareholder services and contacts 249
Glossary of terms and index 251
GGSSKK AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22001144 221177Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Financial record
Quarterly trend
An unaudited analysis of the Group results is provided by quarter in Sterling for the financial year 2014.
Income statement – total 12 months 2014 Q4 2014 Q3 2014 Q2 2014 Q1 2014
£m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Turnover – Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 18,670 (6) (12) 5,070 (7) (10) 4,575 (4) (12) 4,539 (6) (14) 4,486 (5) (12)
– Consumer Healthcare 4,336 (11) (18) 1,116 (7) (10) 1,071 (13) (20) 1,022 (14) (23) 1,127 (9) (18)
Total turnover 23,006 (7) (13) 6,186 (7) (10) 5,646 (6) (13) 5,561 (8) (16) 5,613 (6) (13)
Cost of sales (7,323) (11) (15) (2,029) (18) (20) (1,829) (9) (13) (1,722) (7) (13) (1,743) (7) (12)
Selling, general and administration (8,246) 4 (3) (2,207) 4 – (2,013) 15 1 (2,055) 1 (7) (1,971) (3) (5)
Research and development (3,450) (8) (12) (979) (7) (9) (803) (6) (11) (809) (18) (23) (859) (1) (5)
Royalty income 310 (18) (20) 67 (31) (32) 101 11 7 72 (10) (12) 70 (36) (38)
Other operating income (700) (347) (399) 90 (44)
Operating profit 3,597 (40) (49) 691 (69) (72) 703 (52) (55) 1,137 (8) (21) 1,066 (12) (33)
Net finance costs (659) (171) (165) (159) (164)
Profit on disposal of interest in associates and joint ventures – – – – –
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures 30 11 10 8 1
Profit before taxation 2,968 (46) (55) 531 (77) (79) 548 (58) (61) 986 (9) (23) 903 (13) (36)
Taxation (137) 494 (163) (284) (184)
Tax rate % 4.6% (93.0)% 29.7% 28.8% 20.4%
Profit after taxation for the period 2,831 (41) (50) 1,025 (56) (59) 385 (59) (62) 702 (22) (35) 719 (6) (30)
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 75 (8) (16) 48 51
Profit attributable to shareholders 2,756 1,033 401 654 668
Basic earnings per share (pence) 57.3p (40) (49) 21.5p (55) (58) 8.3p (56) (59) 13.6p (23) (37) 13.9p (4) (30)
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 56.7p 21.3p 8.2p 13.4p 13.7p
Income statement – core
Total turnover 23,006 (3) (10) 6,186 (5) (8) 5,646 (3) (10) 5,561 (4) (13) 5,613 (2) (10)
Cost of sales (6,535) (3) (8) (1,798) (3) (6) (1,641) (1) (6) (1,538) (3) (9) (1,558) (5) (10)
Selling, general and administration (7,074) (2) (9) (1,864) (2) (5) (1,477) (6) (19) (1,922) 3 (6) (1,811) (3) (5)
Research and development (3,113) (4) (8) (821) (8) (9) (742) (1) (6) (766) (3) (9) (784) (4) (8)
Royalty income 310 (18) (20) 67 (31) (32) 101 11 7 72 (10) (12) 70 (36) (38)
Operating profit 6,594 (6) (15) 1,770 (9) (12) 1,887 (1) (6) 1,407 (14) (25) 1,530 – (18)
Net finance costs (646) (168) (161) (156) (161)
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures 30 11 10 8 1
Profit before taxation 5,978 (6) (16) 1,613 (10) (14) 1,736 (1) (5) 1,259 (14) (26) 1,370 – (20)
Taxation (1,172) (246) (348) (277) (301)
Tax rate % 19.6% 15.3% 20.0% 22.0% 22.0%
Profit after taxation for the period 4,806 (2) (12) 1,367 (2) (6) 1,388 4 (1) 982 (12) (24) 1,069 1 (20)
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 222 52 47 61 62
Profit attributable to shareholders 4,584 1,315 1,341 921 1,007
Adjusted earnings per share (pence) 95.4p (1) (12) 27.3p (1) (6) 27.9p 5 – 19.1p (12) (25) 21.0p 2 (20)
The calculation of core results is described on page 52.
218 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Quarterly trend
An unaudited analysis of the Group results is provided by quarter in Sterling for the financial year 2014.
Income statement – total 12 months 2014 Q4 2014 Q3 2014 Q2 2014 Q1 2014
£m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Turnover – Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 18,670 (6) (12) 5,070 (7) (10) 4,575 (4) (12) 4,539 (6) (14) 4,486 (5) (12)
– Consumer Healthcare 4,336 (11) (18) 1,116 (7) (10) 1,071 (13) (20) 1,022 (14) (23) 1,127 (9) (18)
Total turnover 23,006 (7) (13) 6,186 (7) (10) 5,646 (6) (13) 5,561 (8) (16) 5,613 (6) (13)
Cost of sales (7,323) (11) (15) (2,029) (18) (20) (1,829) (9) (13) (1,722) (7) (13) (1,743) (7) (12)
Selling, general and administration (8,246) 4 (3) (2,207) 4 – (2,013) 15 1 (2,055) 1 (7) (1,971) (3) (5)
Research and development (3,450) (8) (12) (979) (7) (9) (803) (6) (11) (809) (18) (23) (859) (1) (5)
Royalty income 310 (18) (20) 67 (31) (32) 101 11 7 72 (10) (12) 70 (36) (38)
Other operating income (700) (347) (399) 90 (44)
Operating profit 3,597 (40) (49) 691 (69) (72) 703 (52) (55) 1,137 (8) (21) 1,066 (12) (33)
Net finance costs (659) (171) (165) (159) (164)
Profit on disposal of interest in associates and joint ventures – – – – –
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures 30 11 10 8 1
Profit before taxation 2,968 (46) (55) 531 (77) (79) 548 (58) (61) 986 (9) (23) 903 (13) (36)
Taxation (137) 494 (163) (284) (184)
Tax rate % 4.6% (93.0)% 29.7% 28.8% 20.4%
Profit after taxation for the period 2,831 (41) (50) 1,025 (56) (59) 385 (59) (62) 702 (22) (35) 719 (6) (30)
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 75 (8) (16) 48 51
Profit attributable to shareholders 2,756 1,033 401 654 668
Basic earnings per share (pence) 57.3p (40) (49) 21.5p (55) (58) 8.3p (56) (59) 13.6p (23) (37) 13.9p (4) (30)
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 56.7p 21.3p 8.2p 13.4p 13.7p
Income statement – core
Total turnover 23,006 (3) (10) 6,186 (5) (8) 5,646 (3) (10) 5,561 (4) (13) 5,613 (2) (10)
Cost of sales (6,535) (3) (8) (1,798) (3) (6) (1,641) (1) (6) (1,538) (3) (9) (1,558) (5) (10)
Selling, general and administration (7,074) (2) (9) (1,864) (2) (5) (1,477) (6) (19) (1,922) 3 (6) (1,811) (3) (5)
Research and development (3,113) (4) (8) (821) (8) (9) (742) (1) (6) (766) (3) (9) (784) (4) (8)
Royalty income 310 (18) (20) 67 (31) (32) 101 11 7 72 (10) (12) 70 (36) (38)
Operating profit 6,594 (6) (15) 1,770 (9) (12) 1,887 (1) (6) 1,407 (14) (25) 1,530 – (18)
Net finance costs (646) (168) (161) (156) (161)
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures 30 11 10 8 1
Profit before taxation 5,978 (6) (16) 1,613 (10) (14) 1,736 (1) (5) 1,259 (14) (26) 1,370 – (20)
Taxation (1,172) (246) (348) (277) (301)
Tax rate % 19.6% 15.3% 20.0% 22.0% 22.0%
Profit after taxation for the period 4,806 (2) (12) 1,367 (2) (6) 1,388 4 (1) 982 (12) (24) 1,069 1 (20)
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 222 52 47 61 62
Profit attributable to shareholders 4,584 1,315 1,341 921 1,007
Adjusted earnings per share (pence) 95.4p (1) (12) 27.3p (1) (6) 27.9p 5 – 19.1p (12) (25) 21.0p 2 (20)
The calculation of core results is described on page 52.
GSK Annual Report 2014 219Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Financial record
continued
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines turnover by therapeutic area 2014
Total USA Europe Emerging Markets Japan
2013
Therapeutic area/ 2014 (restated) Growth 2014 Growth 2014 Growth 2014 Growth 2014 Growth
major products £m £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Respiratory 6,181 7,289 (10) (15) 2,810 (18) (22) 1,675 (3) (7) 777 3 (7) 475 (2) (14)
Avamys/Veramyst 238 249 5 (4) 31 (21) (26) 69 4 – 73 15 3 48 10 (2)
Flixotide/Flovent 702 796 (6) (12) 432 (6) (10) 102 (9) (13) 55 9 (5) 28 (24) (33)
Relvar/Breo Ellipta 67 8 >100 >100 29 >100 >100 18 – – 2 – – 17 >100 >100
Seretide/Advair 4,229 5,274 (15) (20) 1,972 (25) (29) 1,330 (5) (9) 400 3 (7) 228 (6) (18)
Ventolin 665 642 11 4 328 18 13 124 2 (2) 165 8 (4) 7 (11) (22)
Other 280 320 (3) (13) 18 >100 >100 32 10 3 82 (18) (24) 147 (3) (16)
Oncology 1,202 969 33 24 509 41 34 417 29 23 169 30 13 65 17 3
Arzerra 54 75 (24) (28) 28 (35) (39) 23 (11) (15) 1 – – 3 >100 >100
Mekinist 68 10 >100 >100 67 >100 >100 – – – – – – – – –
Promacta 231 186 34 24 91 32 25 71 36 29 29 50 32 33 27 10
Tafinlar 135 16 >100 >100 58 >100 >100 67 >100 >100 – – – – – –
Tyverb/Tykerb 171 207 (11) (17) 45 (15) (18) 67 (15) (18) 47 13 – 8 (41) (53)
Votrient 410 331 33 24 181 32 26 153 23 18 46 49 24 17 >100 89
Other 133 144 (1) (8) 39 – (5) 36 (10) (12) 46 19 7 4 (33) (33)
Cardiovascular,
metabolic and
urology (CVMU) 965 1,073 (3) (10) 364 (16) (20) 293 – (5) 145 20 7 114 14 –
Avodart 805 857 1 (6) 258 (13) (17) 280 8 3 113 20 9 114 14 –
Other 160 216 (21) (26) 106 (23) (26) 13 (63) (63) 32 19 3 – – –
Immuno-
inflammation 214 161 40 33 196 39 32 12 63 50 3 >100 >100 – – –
Benlysta 173 146 25 18 155 22 16 12 63 50 3 >100 >100 – – –
Other 41 15 >100 >100 41 >100 >100 – – – – – – – – –
Other
pharmaceuticals 2,407 2,674 (2) (10) 171 (31) (34) 660 (4) (8) 1,053 5 (6) 256 1 (12)
Dermatology 481 631 (18) (24) 49 (56) (57) 150 (8) (12) 240 (9) (17) 22 (7) (21)
Augmentin 573 630 (2) (9) 1 – – 189 (2) (7) 356 (1) (9) 11 – (15)
Other anti-bacterials 215 224 3 (4) 6 (14) (14) 61 (3) (8) 145 6 (2) 2 (33) (33)
Rare diseases 417 495 (8) (16) 67 (38) (41) 134 9 4 40 (6) (17) 157 (3) (15)
Other 721 694 15 4 48 >100 92 126 (12) (17) 272 30 11 64 16 2
Innovative
Pharmaceuticals 10,969 12,166 (3 ) (10) 4,050 (12) (16) 3,057 – (4) 2,147 7 (4) 910 2 (11)
Vaccines 3,192 3,420 (1) (7) 930 – (5) 978 (2) (7) 1,056 1 (6) 27 (14) (25)
Boostrix 317 288 16 10 163 (7) (11) 78 26 20 55 >100 >100 – – –
Cervarix 118 172 (26) (31) 5 (17) (17) 48 (16) (21) 63 (24) (32) – (100) (100)
Fluarix, FluLaval 215 251 (9) (14) 142 2 (3) 22 (34) (37) 30 (23) (30) – – –
Hepatitis 558 629 (6) (11) 234 (6) (11) 186 (2) (6) 97 (15) (21) – – –
Infanrix, Pediarix 828 862 2 (4) 297 15 10 369 (3) (7) 104 (12) (21) – – –
Rotarix 376 375 7 – 86 (16) (20) 67 19 14 179 18 9 28 28 12
Synflorix 398 405 4 (2) – – – 40 (13) (17) 355 7 1 – – –
Other 382 438 (6) (13) 3 >100 >100 168 (5) (9) 173 (6) (14) (1) <(100) <(100)
Innovative
Pharmaceuticals
and Vaccines 14,161 15,586 (3 ) (9) 4,980 (10) (14) 4,035 – (5) 3,203 5 (5) 937 1 (11 )
ViiV Healthcare
(HIV) 1,498 1,386 15 8 670 28 21 534 6 2 142 (4) (17) 63 35 18
Combivir 59 116 (46) (49) 11 (67) (68) 18 (52) (54) 25 (20) (27) 2 (15) (26)
Epzicom/Kivexa 768 763 8 1 274 7 2 335 7 2 71 7 (9) 36 14 –
Lexiva/Agenerase 87 113 (17) (23) 45 (24) (27) 20 (25) (28) 18 22 1 2 (27) (36)
Selzentry 136 143 – (5) 53 (4) (9) 58 (3) (7) 7 37 16 2 (16) (26)
Tivicay 282 19 >100 >100 200 >100 >100 56 >100 >100 1 – – 14 – –
Trizivir 36 97 (61) (63) 10 (81) (82) 22 (28) (31) 1 (53) (61) – – –
Other 130 135 5 (4) 77 55 51 25 (30) (32) 19 (33) (37) 7 (22) (22)
Established
Products 3,011 3,874 (16) (22) 854 (31) (34) 601 (13) (16) 1,050 (1) (9) 444 (15) (25)
Coreg 124 131 (1) (5) 123 (1) (5) – – – – – – – – –
Hepsera 85 96 (5) (11) – – – – – – 64 (3) (9) 20 (8) (20)
Imigran/Imitrex 172 188 (4) (9) 83 5 4 61 2 (3) 6 – (14) 17 (21) (29)
Lamictal 531 557 3 (5) 253 (4) (8) 106 1 (4) 78 10 – 89 22 7
Lovaza 240 584 (57) (59) 238 (57) (59) – – – – – – – – –
Requip 109 125 (4) (13) 7 – – 39 (19) (25) 14 14 – 48 6 (6)
Serevent 108 129 (12) (16) 43 (12) (16) 48 (9) (13) 3 (25) (25) 9 (23) (31)
Seroxat/Paxil 210 285 (19) (26) – – – 43 (15) (19) 62 (13) (22) 98 (19) (29)
Valtrex 154 224 (24) (31) 26 (40) (42) 27 (3) (7) 33 (3) (18) 50 (45) (53)
Zeffix 166 182 (3) (9) 3 (77) (77) 8 (25) (33) 141 7 1 13 (13) (19)
Other 1,112 1,373 (12) (19) 78 (28) (33) 269 (19) (22) 649 (3) (10) 100 (17) (28)
18,670 20,846 (4) (10)
The table above includes the sales by product reported in the Other trading and unallocated pharmaceuticals segment (which includes
Canada, Puerto Rico, Australasia, central vaccine tender sales and contract manufacturing sales) in the total column only.
CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates. £% represents growth at actual exchange rates.
220 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines turnover by therapeutic area 2013
Total USA Europe Emerging Markets Japan
2012
Therapeutic area/ 2013 (restated) Growth 2013 Growth 2013 Growth 2013 Growth 2013 Growth
major products £m £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Respiratory 7,289 7,044 4 3 3,594 7 8 1,802 (2) 1 837 4 3 554 10 (8)
Avamys/Veramyst 249 246 5 1 42 (29) (29) 69 8 11 71 16 13 49 28 7
Flixotide/Flovent 796 779 2 2 482 6 8 117 (7) (4) 58 7 5 42 (7) (24)
Relvar/Breo Ellipta 8 – – – 5 – – – – – – – – 3 – –
Seretide/Advair 5,274 5,046 4 5 2,769 8 9 1,458 (2) 1 429 4 3 277 8 (10)
Ventolin 642 631 2 2 291 4 5 127 (2) 1 171 2 – 9 – (18)
Other 320 342 4 (6) 5 (69) (69) 31 (6) (3) 108 (1) (1) 174 14 (5)
Oncology 969 798 22 21 380 17 18 339 28 32 149 18 14 63 36 13
Arzerra 75 60 23 25 46 18 21 27 29 29 – – – 1 – –
Mekinist 10 – – – 10 – – – – – – – – – – –
Promacta 186 130 46 43 73 33 35 55 47 53 22 92 83 30 44 20
Tafinlar 16 – – – 11 – – 4 – – – – – – – –
Tyverb/Tykerb 207 239 (13) (13) 55 (21) (19) 82 (9) (6) 47 (9) (13) 17 (5) (23)
Votrient 331 183 80 81 144 56 58 130 91 97 37 77 68 9 >100 >100
Other 144 186 (23) (23) 41 (40) (41) 41 (17) (11) 43 2 – 6 (25) (25)
Cardiovascular,
metabolic and
urology (CVMU) 1,073 1,144 (5) (6) 456 (27) (26) 308 18 23 135 27 24 114 25 4
Avodart 857 790 10 8 312 (3) (2) 273 15 20 104 27 24 114 25 4
Other 216 354 (40) (39) 144 (53) (53) 35 48 52 31 24 24 – – –
Immuno-
inflammation 161 70 >100 >100 148 >100 >100 8 100 100 1 – – – – –
Benlysta 146 70 >100 >100 134 >100 >100 8 100 100 1 – – – – –
Other 15 – – – 14 – – – – – – – – – – –
Other
pharmaceuticals 2,674 2,630 5 2 261 (25) (24) 720 2 7 1,124 2 (2) 291 36 13
Dermatology 631 680 (5) (7) 115 (37) (36) 170 6 10 289 8 4 28 3 (15)
Augmentin 630 608 5 4 1 – – 203 (3) – 393 11 7 13 (6) (19)
Other anti-bacterials 224 233 (4) (4) 7 – – 66 5 10 148 (4) (6) 3 – –
Rare diseases 495 495 7 – 113 (4) (3) 129 1 5 48 2 – 184 18 (2)
Other 694 614 18 13 25 (37) (36) 152 6 12 246 (12) (16) 63 >100 >100
Innovative
Pharmaceuticals 12,166 11,686 2 4 4,839 2 3 3,177 2 7 2,246 2 2 1,022 2 (1)
Vaccines 3,420 3,325 2 3 978 17 18 1,049 3 7 1,124 1 2 36 (76) (80)
Boostrix 288 238 19 21 183 23 24 65 19 23 20 25 25 – – –
Cervarix 172 270 (37) (36) 6 – – 61 11 15 92 23 23 10 (90) (92)
Fluarix, FluLaval 251 200 25 26 146 65 66 35 (21) (19) 43 (2) (2) – – –
Hepatitis 629 646 (4) (3) 263 (3) (1) 198 (3) 1 123 (2) (4) – – –
Infanrix, Pediarix 862 775 9 11 271 23 24 398 2 6 132 11 10 – – –
Rotarix 375 360 5 4 108 7 8 59 49 51 164 3 3 25 (30) (43)
Synflorix 405 385 2 5 – – – 48 2 7 350 1 5 – – –
Other 438 451 (4) (3) 1 (100) – 185 2 6 200 (14) (13) 1 – –
Innovative
Pharmaceuticals
and Vaccines 15,586 15,011 4 4 5,817 4 6 4,226 3 7 3,370 3 2 1,058 6 (12)
ViiV Healthcare
(HIV) 1,386 1,374 – 1 552 5 6 526 (3) – 171 (12) (14) 54 14 (6)
Combivir 116 179 (36) (35) 35 46 48 39 (41) (39) 35 (56) (56) 3 (11) (26)
Epzicom/Kivexa 763 665 14 15 269 9 10 328 11 15 78 38 37 36 21 1
Lexiva/Agenerase 113 127 (11) (11) 62 (10) (9) 27 (22) (18) 18 (1) (6) 3 (7) (23)
Selzentry 143 128 10 12 58 1 2 63 8 13 6 67 60 3 49 23
Tivicay 19 – – – 19 – – – – – - – – – – –
Trizivir 97 107 (10) (9) 58 (6) (4) 32 (17) (14) 4 (26) (30) – – –
Other 135 168 (20) (20) 51 (25) (24) 37 (26) (23) 30 (8) (8) 9 (5) (21)
Established
Products 3,874 4,351 (8) (11) 1,300 (7) (6) 718 (14) (11) 1,157 (5) (7) 595 (5) (22)
Coreg 131 133 (2) (2) 130 (2) (2) – – – – – – – – –
Hepsera 96 126 (21) (24) – – – – – – 70 (28) (26) 25 (3) (19)
Imigran/Imitrex 188 190 1 (1) 80 11 11 63 (7) (6) 7 – – 24 (13) (25)
Lamictal 557 610 (7) (9) 276 (18) (17) 110 (4) (2) 78 8 4 83 28 6
Lovaza 584 607 (5) (4) 581 (5) (4) – – – – – – – – –
Requip 125 164 (18) (24) 7 (63) (63) 52 (33) (32) 14 – – 51 11 (7)
Serevent 129 145 (10) (11) 51 (2) – 55 (17) (14) 4 33 33 13 (20) (35)
Seroxat/Paxil 285 374 (16) (24) – – – 53 (11) (7) 79 (4) (6) 138 (22) (36)
Valtrex 224 252 (2) (11) 45 26 29 29 (15) (12) 40 11 8 106 (2) (18)
Zeffix 182 243 (26) (25) 13 (13) (13) 12 (25) (25) 140 (28) (26) 16 (5) (20)
Other 1,373 1,507 (6) (9) 117 (5) (1) 344 (14) (10) 725 2 (3) 139 (5) (23)
20,846 20,736 1 1
The table above includes the sales by product reported in the Other trading and unallocated pharmaceuticals segment (which includes
Canada, Puerto Rico, Australasia, central vaccine tender sales and contract manufacturing sales) in the total column only.
CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates. £% represents growth at actual exchange rates.
GSK Annual Report 2014 221Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Financial record
continued
Five year record
A record of financial performance is provided, analysed in accordance with current reporting practice. The information included in the
Five year record is prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union and also with IFRS as issued by the
International Accounting Standards Board.
The Established Products segment has been created and certain product reclassifications, principally the OTC dermatology brands
acquired with the Stiefel business, have been made between Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines segments and the Consumer Healthcare
segment, with effect from 1 January 2014. Comparative turnover information in all four years has been restated accordingly. In
addition, the 2013 and 2012 core results have been restated to exclude the divestments completed in 2013.
Comparative information for 2012 is also reported including the effect of the divestments completed in 2013.
2013 2012 2012 2011 2010
2014 (restated (restated (restated) (restated (restated
Turnover by division £m £m) £m) £m £m) £m)
Pharmaceuticals 15,478 17,426 17,411 17,838 18,474 18,890
Vaccines 3,192 3,420 3,325 3,325 3,497 4,326
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 18,670 20,846 20,736 21,163 21,971 23,216
Consumer Healthcare 4,336 4,756 4,747 5,268 5,416 5,176
23,006 25,602 25,483 26,431 27,387 28,392
Divestments – 903 948 – – –
Total turnover including divestments 23,006 26,505 26,431 26,431 27,387 28,392
Group turnover by geographic region
USA 7,340 8,620 8,330 8,476 8,696 9,346
Europe 6,412 6,862 6,675 7,330 8,276 9,097
Emerging Markets 6,193 6,579 6,629 6,784 6,407 6,078
Japan 1,608 1,886 2,219 2,225 2,318 2,155
Other 1,453 1,655 1,630 1,616 1,690 1,716
23,006 25,602 25,483 26,431 27,387 28,392
Divestments – 903 948 – – –
Total turnover including divestments 23,006 26,505 26,431 26,431 27,387 28,392
Group turnover by segment
USA 4,980 5,817 5,508 5,556 5,338 5,430
Europe 4,035 4,226 3,956 3,956 4,374 4,899
Emerging Markets 3,203 3,370 3,309 3,309 3,067 3,287
Japan 937 1,058 1,203 1,203 1,257 1,182
ViiV Healthcare (HIV) 1,498 1,386 1,374 1,374 1,569 1,566
Established Products 3,011 3,874 4,351 4,730 5,325 6,069
Other trading and unallocated pharmaceuticals 1,006 1,115 1,035 1,035 1,041 783
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 18,670 20,846 20,736 21,163 21,971 23,216
Consumer Healthcare 4,336 4,756 4,747 5,268 5,416 5,176
23,006 25,602 25,483 26,431 27,387 28,392
Divestments – 903 948 – – –
Total turnover including divestments 23,006 26,505 26,431 26,431 27,387 28,392
2013 2012 2012 2011 2010
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines turnover by 2014 (restated ) (restated ) (restated ) (restated ) (restated )
therapeutic area £m £m £m £m £m £m
Respiratory 6,181 7,289 7,044 7,044 7,012 6,930
Oncology and emesis 1,202 969 798 798 683 679
Cardiovascular, Metabolic and urogenital 965 1,073 1,144 1,144 1,108 946
Immuno-inflammation 214 161 70 70 15 –
Other pharmaceuticals 2,407 2,674 2,630 2,678 2,762 2,700
Established Products 3,011 3,874 4,351 4,730 5,325 6,069
Vaccines 3,192 3,420 3,325 3,325 3,497 4,326
ViiV Healthcare (HIV) 1,498 1,386 1,374 1,374 1,569 1,566
18,670 20,846 20,736 21,163 21,971 23,216
222 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Five year record continued
2013 2012 2012 2011 2010
2014 (restated (restated (restated (restated (restated
Consumer Healthcare turnover £m £m) £m) £m) £m) £m)
Wellness 1,596 1,865 1,991 1,998 2,310 2,217
Oral care 1,797 1,884 1,806 1,806 1,722 1,596
Nutrition 633 627 590 1,104 1,025 953
Skin health 310 380 360 360 359 410
4,336 4,756 4,747 5,268 5,416 5,176
2014 2013 2012 2012 2011 2010
Financial results – total £m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 23,006 26,505 26,431 26,431 27,387 28,392
Operating profit 3,597 7,028 7,300 7,300 7,734 3,715
Profit before taxation 2,968 6,647 6,600 6,600 7,625 3,089
Profit after taxation 2,831 5,628 4,678 4,678 5,405 1,806
pence pence pence pence pence pence
Basic earnings per share 57.3 112.5 91.6 91.6 103.6 31.2
Diluted earnings per share 56.7 110.5 90.2 90.2 102.1 30.9
2014 2013 2012 2012 2011 2010
millions millions millions millions millions millions
Weighted average number of shares in issue:
Basic 4,808 4,831 4,912 4,912 5,028 5,085
Diluted 4,865 4,919 4,989 4,989 5,099 5,128
2013 2012
2014 (restated (restated 2012 2011 2010
Financial results – core £m £m) £m) £m £m £m
Turnover 23,006 25,602 25,483 26,431 27,387 28,392
Operating profit 6,594 7,771 7,974 8,238 8,730 9,429
Profit before taxation 5,978 7,122 7,279 7,543 8,038 8,798
Profit after taxation 4,806 5,487 5,511 5,705 5,954 6,553
pence pence pence pence pence pence
Core earnings per share 95.4 108.4 107.4 111.4 114.5 124.6
% % % % % %
Return on capital employed 46.6 91.4 84.9 84.9 82.3 30.2
Return on capital employed is calculated as total profit before taxation as a percentage of average net assets over the year.
GSK Annual Report 2014 223Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Financial record
continued
Five year record continued
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010
Balance sheet £m £m £m £m £m
Non-current assets 25,973 26,859 27,789 24,921 26,207
Current assets 14,678 15,227 13,692 16,167 16,036
Total assets 40,651 42,086 41,481 41,088 42,243
Current liabilities (13,295) (13,677) (13,815) (15,010) (12,794)
Non-current liabilities (22,420) (20,597) (20,929) (17,264) (19,724)
Total liabilities (35,715) (34,274) (34,744) (32,274) (32,518)
Net assets 4,936 7,812 6,737 8,814 9,725
Shareholders’ equity 4,263 6,997 5,800 8,019 8,867
Non-controlling interests 673 815 937 795 858
Total equity 4,936 7,812 6,737 8,814 9,725
Number of employees
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010
USA 16,579 16,530 17,201 16,707 17,555
Europe 37,899 38,367 38,788 38,696 39,910
Emerging Markets 36,730 37,747 36,738 35,080 31,992
Japan 3,560 3,531 3,515 3,573 3,461
Other 3,153 3,276 3,246 3,333 3,543
97,921 99,451 99,488 97,389 96,461
Manufacturing 32,171 31,502 31,369 30,664 30,611
Selling 42,785 45,397 45,601 45,155 43,918
Administration 10,630 10,232 9,607 8,883 8,850
Research and development 12,335 12,320 12,911 12,687 13,082
97,921 99,451 99,488 97,389 96,461
The geographic distribution of employees in the table above is based on the location of GSK’s subsidiary companies. The number of
employees is the number of permanent employed staff at the end of the financial period. It excludes those employees who are employed
and managed by GSK on a contract basis.
Exchange rates
As a guide to holders of ADS, the following tables set out, for the periods indicated, information on the exchange rate of US dollars for
Sterling as reported by the Bank of England (4pm buying rate).
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010
Average 1.65 1.56 1.59 1.60 1.55
The average rate for the year is calculated as the average of the 4pm buying rates for each day of the year.
2015 2015 2014 2014 2014 2014
Feb Jan Dec Nov Oct Sep
High 1.54 1.54 1.57 1.60 1.62 1.66
Low 1.50 1.50 1.55 1.56 1.59 1.61
The 4pm buying rate on 19 February 2015 was £1= US$1.54.
224 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Pipeline, products and competition
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines product development pipeline
Key
† In-licence or other alliance relationship with third party
* Also being developed for indications in another therapeutic area Phase I Evaluation of clinical pharmacology, usually conducted in volunteers
S Month of first submission Phase II Determination of dose and initial evaluation of efficacy, conducted in a
A Month of first regulatory approval (for MAA, this is the first EU small number of patients
approval letter) Phase III Large comparative study (compound versus placebo and/or established
BLA Biological Licence Application treatment) in patients to establish clinical benefit and safety
MAA Marketing Authorisation Application (Europe)
NDA New Drug Application (USA)
MAA and NDA/BLA regulatory review milestones shown in the table below are those that have been achieved. Future filing dates are not included in this list.
Achieved regulatory
review milestones
Compound Type Indication Phase MAA NDA/BLA
Respiratory
2126458 phosphoinositide 3 kinase (PI3K) inhibitor idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis I
2256294 soluble epoxide hydrolase (sEH) inhibitor chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) I
2862277 tumour necrosis factor receptor-1 (TNFR1) acute lung injury I
domain antibody
961081† + muscarinic acetylcholine antagonist, beta2 agonist COPD I
fluticasone furoate (MABA) + glucocorticoid agonist
961081† MABA COPD II
2245035 toll-like receptor 7 agonist asthma II
2269557 PI3K inhibitor asthma & COPD II
2586881† recombinant human angiotensin converting acute lung injury II
enzyme 2
danirixin CXCR2 chemokine receptor antagonist COPD II
fluticasone furoate + glucocorticoid agonist + muscarinic acetylcholine asthma COPD overlap syndrome II
umeclidinium antagonist
losmapimod p38 kinase inhibitor (oral) COPD* II
mepolizumab IL5 monoclonal antibody nasal polyposis* II
fluticasone furoate + glucocorticoid agonist + long-acting beta2 COPD III
vilanterol† agonist + muscarinic acetylcholine antagonist
+ umeclidinium
mepolizumab IL5 monoclonal antibody COPD* III
Relvar/Breo Ellipta long-acting beta2 agonist + glucocorticoid agonist COPD – mortality outcomes III
(vilanterol† +
fluticasone furoate)
vilanterol† long-acting beta2 agonist COPD III
mepolizumab IL5 monoclonal antibody severe eosinophilic asthma* Submitted S: Nov14 S: Nov14
Anoro Ellipta muscarinic acetylcholine antagonist + long-acting COPD Approved A: May14 A: Dec13
(umeclidinium + beta2 agonist
vilanterol†)
Arnuity Ellipta glucocorticoid agonist asthma Approved N/A A: Aug14
(fluticasone furoate)
Incruse Ellipta muscarinic acetylcholine antagonist COPD* Approved A: Apr14 A:Apr14
(umeclidinium)
Relvar/Breo Ellipta long-acting beta2 agonist + glucocorticoid agonist asthma Approved A: Nov13 S: Jun14
(vilanterol† +
fluticasone furoate)
Paediatric Vaccines
RSV recombinant respiratory syncytial virus prophylaxis I
(maternal immunisation)
RSV recombinant viral vector respiratory syncytial virus prophylaxis I
S. pneumoniae next recombinant – conjugated Streptococcus pneumoniae disease prophylaxis II
generation†
MMR live attenuated measles, mumps, rubella prophylaxis III (US) N/A
Mosquirix recombinant malaria prophylaxis (Plasmodium falciparum) Submitted S: Jun14 N/A
(Malaria RTS,S)†
DTPa-HBV-IPV/Hib† conjugated diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, poliomyelitis, Approved N/A
hepatitis B, haemophilus influenza II (US)
Nimenrix conjugated Neisseria meningitis groups A, C, W & Y Approved A: Apr12
(MenACWY-TT) disease prophylaxis II (US)
GSK Annual Report 2014 225Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Pipeline, products and competition
continued
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines product development pipeline continued
Achieved regulatory
review milestones
Compound Type Indication Phase MAA NDA/BLA
Other Vaccines
Malaria next generation† recombinant malaria prophylaxis (Plasmodium falciparum) II
NTHi† recombinant non-typeable Haemophilus influenzae prophylaxis II
Tuberculosis† recombinant tuberculosis prophylaxis II
Hepatitis C recombinant viral vector hepatitis C virus prophylaxis II
Ebola† recombinant viral vector prevention of filovirus haemorrhagic fevers caused III
by Ebola Zaire virus
Zoster† recombinant Herpes Zoster prophylaxis III
Antigen-Specific Cancer Immunotherapeutic
MAGE-A3 recombinant treatment of melanoma III
immunotherapeutic†
HIV (ViiV Healthcare)
cabotegravir (1265744) HIV integrase inhibitor HIV infections II
(long-acting parenteral formulation)
cabotegravir (1265744) HIV integrase inhibitor HIV pre-exposure prophylaxis II
(long-acting parenteral formulation)
Triumeq (dolutegravir HIV integrase inhibitor + HIV infections – fixed dose combination Approved A: Sep14 A: Aug14
+ abacavir sulphate reverse transcriptase inhibitors
+ lamivudine) (fixed dose combination)
Oncology
525762 bromodomain inhibitor cancer I
2256098 focal adhesion kinase inhibitor cancer I
2636771 PI3K inhibitor cancer I
2816126 enhancer of zeste homologue2 (EZH2) cancer I
inhibitor
2849330 ErbB3 monoclonal antibody cancer I
2857916 beta cell maturation antigen antibody multiple myeloma I
drug conjugate
2879552 lysine-specific demethylase 1 (LSD1) cancer I
inhibitor
3052230† fibroblast growth factor ligand trap cancer I
afuresertib (2110183) AKT protein kinase inhibitor multiple myeloma I
Votrient (pazopanib) + multi-kinase angiogenesis inhibitor + renal cell cancer I
MK-3475† PD-1 monoclonal antibody
afuresertib (2110183) AKT protein kinase inhibitor ovarian cancer II
Mekinist (trametinib)† + MEK1/2 inhibitor + BRAF protein non-small cell lung cancer II
Tafinlar (dabrafenib) kinase inhibitor
Mekinist (trametinib)† + MEK1/2 inhibitor + BRAF protein rare cancers II
Tafinlar (dabrafenib) kinase inhibitor
Mekinist (trametinib)† + MEK1/2 inhibitor + BRAF protein colorectal cancer II
Tafinlar (dabrafenib) + kinase inhibitor + human anti-EGFR
panitumumab† monoclonal antibody
Revolade/Promacta thrombopoietin receptor agonist acute myeloid leukaemia II
(eltrombopag)†
Arzerra (ofatumumab)† CD20 human monoclonal antibody chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, use in relapsed patients III
Arzerra (ofatumumab)† CD20 human monoclonal antibody follicular lymphoma (refractory & relapsed patients) III
Mekinist (trametinib)† + MEK1/2 inhibitor + BRAF protein metastatic melanoma, adjuvant therapy III
Tafinlar (dabrafenib) kinase inhibitor
Revolade/Promacta thrombopoietin receptor agonist myelodysplastic syndromes III
(eltrombopag)†
Votrient (pazopanib) multi-kinase angiogenesis inhibitor renal cell cancer, adjuvant therapy III
Arzerra (ofatumumab)† CD20 human monoclonal antibody chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, first line therapy Approved A: Jun14 A: Apr14
Mekinist (trametinib)† MEK1/2 inhibitor metastatic melanoma Approved A: Jul14 A: May13
Mekinist (trametinib)† + MEK1/2 inhibitor + BRAF protein metastatic melanoma Approved A: Jan 14
Tafinlar (dabrafenib) kinase inhibitor
Revolade/Promacta thrombopoietin receptor agonist aplastic anaemia Approved S: Nov14 A: Aug14
(eltrombopag)†
226 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines product development pipeline continued
Achieved regulatory
review milestones
Compound Type Indication Phase MAA NDA/BLA
Cardiovascular & Metabolic
1278863 prolyl hydroxylase inhibitor (topical) wound healing I
2798745 transient receptor potential cation heart failure I
channel V4 (TRPV4) antagonist
2881078 selective androgen receptor modulator muscle wasting I
1278863 prolyl hydroxylase inhibitor anaemia associated with chronic renal disease II
2330672 ileal bile acid transport inhibitor type 2 diabetes & cholestatic pruritus II
camicinal motilin receptor agonist delayed gastric emptying II
Eperzan/Tanzeum GLP 1 agonist type 1 diabetes II
(albiglutide)
losmapimod p38 kinase inhibitor focal segmental glomerular sclerosis* II
otelixizumab CD3 monoclonal antibody new onset type 1 diabetes II
losmapimod p38 kinase inhibitor acute coronary syndrome* III
retosiban oxytocin antagonist threatened pre-term labour III
Eperzan/Tanzeum GLP 1 agonist type 2 diabetes Approved A: Mar14 A:Apr14
(albiglutide)
Immuno-inflammation
2618960 IL7 receptor monoclonal antibody autoimmune disease I
2646264 spleen tyrosine kinase (Syk) inhibitor chronic urticaria I
(topical)
2831781† LAG3 monoclonal antibody autoimmune disease I
2982772 RIP1 kinase inhibitor autoimmune disease I
3050002† CCL20 monoclonal antibody autoimmune disease I
3117391† macrophage targeted histone rheumatoid arthritis I
deacetylase inhibitor
3196165 (MOR103)† granulocyte macrophage colony- rheumatoid arthritis II
stimulating factor monoclonal antibody
Benlysta (belimumab) B lymphocyte stimulator monoclonal transplant rejection* II
antibody (i.v.)
Benlysta (belimumab) B lymphocyte stimulator monoclonal systemic lupus erythematosus* III
antibody (s.c.)
Benlysta (belimumab) B lymphocyte stimulator monoclonal vasculitis* III
antibody (i.v.)
sirukumab† IL6 human monoclonal antibody (s.c.) rheumatoid arthritis III
Rare Diseases
2398852† + SAP monoclonal antibody + amyloidosis I
23156898† SAP depleter (CPHPC)
2696274† ex-vivo stem cell gene therapy metachromatic leukodystrophy II
2696275† ex-vivo stem cell gene therapy Wiscott-Aldrich syndrome II
ozanezumab neurite outgrowth inhibitor (NOGO-A) amyotrophic lateral sclerosis II
monoclonal antibody
2696273† ex-vivo stem cell gene therapy adenosine deaminase severe combined immune III
deficiency (ADA-SCID)
mepolizumab IL5 monoclonal antibody (s.c.) eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis* III
Volibris (ambrisentan)† endothelin A antagonist chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension III
Infectious Diseases
2838232 antiviral maturation inhibitor HIV infections I
2878175 NS5B polymerase inhibitor hepatitis C I
2140944 type 2 topoisomerase inhibitor bacterial infections II
tafenoquine† 8-aminoquinoline Plasmodium vivax malaria III
Relenza i.v. (zanamivir)† neuraminidase inhibitor (i.v.) influenza III
Neurosciences
ofatumumab† CD20 human monoclonal antibody (s.c.) neuromyelitis optica* II
Benlysta (belimumab) B lymphocyte stimulator monoclonal myaesthenia gravis* II
antibody (i.v.)
ofatumumab† CD20 human monoclonal antibody (s.c.) multiple sclerosis* II
rilapladib Lp-PLA2 inhibitor Alzheimer's disease II
GSK Annual Report 2014 227Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Pipeline, products and competition
continued
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines product development pipeline continued
Achieved regulatory
review milestones
Compound Type Indication Phase MAA NDA/BLA
Ophthalmology
933776 beta amyloid monoclonal antibody geographic retinal atrophy II
Dermatology
1940029 stearoyl CoA desaturase 1 inhibitor (topical) acne vulgaris I
umeclidinium muscarinic acetylcholine antagonist (topical) hyperhidrosis* I
2894512† non-steroidal anti-inflammatory atopic dermatitis & psoriasis II
chlorhexidine cationic polybiguanide (topical) umbilical cord care III
ofatumumab† CD20 human monoclonal antibody (s.c.) pemphigus vulgaris* III
Toctino (alitretinoin)† retinoic acid receptor modulator chronic hand eczema III N/A
Brand names appearing in italics are trade marks either owned by and/or licensed to GSK or associated companies.
Option-based alliances with third parties that include assets in phase I to phase III development:
Company Disease Area Phase
Adaptimmune cancer I
Cancer Research UK cancer I
ISIS Pharmaceuticals hepatitis B I
transthyretin-mediated amyloidosis III
OncoMed Pharmaceuticals oncology I
oncology II
Shionogi bacterial infection I
228 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Pharmaceutical products, competition and intellectual property
Major Patent expiry dates
Products Compounds Indication(s) competitor brands USA EU
Respiratory 2025 2025
Anoro Ellipta umeclidinium bromide/ COPD Spiriva, Onbrez (NCE) (NCE)
vilanterol terfenatate 2016-2030 2016-2026
(device/ (device/
formulation) formulation)
Arnuity Ellipta fluticasone furoate asthma Qvar, Pulmicort 2021 2023
Asmanex, (NCE) (NCE)
Alvesco 2016-2030 2016-2026
(device/ (device/
formulation) formulation)
Avamys/Veramyst fluticasone furoate rhinitis Nasonex 20213 2023
Flixotide/Flovent fluticasone propionate asthma/COPD Qvar, Singulair 2016 expired
(Diskus device) (Diskus device)
2015-2025 2017
(HFA-device) (HFA-device)
Incruse Ellipta umeclidinium bromide COPD Spiriva, Seebri 2025 2025
(NCE) (NCE)
2016-2030 2016-2026
(device/ (device/
formulation) formulation)
Relvar/Breo fluticasone furoate/ asthma/COPD Symbicort, Foster, 2022 2022
Ellipta vilanterol terfenatate (US – COPD only) Flutiform, Dulera (NCE) (NCE)
2016-2030 2016-2026
(device/ (device/
formulation) formulation)
Seretide/Advair* salmeterol xinafoate/ asthma/COPD Symbicort, Foster, 2016 expired
fluticasone propionate Flutiform, Dulera (Diskus device) (Diskus device)
2015-2026 2017
(HFA-device) (HFA-device)
Serevent salmeterol xinafoate asthma/COPD Foradil, Spiriva, 2016 expired
Onbrez (Diskus device) (Diskus device)
2019
(HFA-device)
Ventolin HFA albuterol sulphate asthma/COPD generic companies 2015-2025 2015-2017
(HFA-device) (HFA-device)
Anti-virals
Relenza zanamivir influenza Tamiflu expired expired
Valtrex valaciclovir genital herpes, coldsores, Famvir expired expired
shingles
Zeffix/Epivir-HBV lamivudine chronic hepatitis B Hepsera expired expired
Central nervous system
Lamictal lamotrigine epilepsy, bipolar disorder Keppra, Dilantin expired expired
Imigran/Imitrex sumatriptan migraine Zomig, Maxalt, Relpax expired expired
Requip XL ropinirole Parkinson’s disease Mirapex expired expired
Seroxat/Paxil paroxetine depression, various Effexor, Cymbalta, expired expired
anxiety disorders Lexapro
Cardiovascular and urogenital
Eperzan/Tanzeum albiglutide Type 2 diabetes Victoza, Byetta 2022 2022
Bydureon, Lyxumia
Trulicity
Avodart dutasteride benign prostatic hyperplasia Proscar, Flomax, 20151 2017
finasteride
Coreg CR carvedilol phosphate mild-to-severe heart failure, Toprol XL 20162 NA
hypertension, left ventricular (formulation)
dysfunction post MI
Lovaza omega-3 acid ethyl esters very high triglycerides Tricor expired NA
* See ’Risk factors’ on page 233 for details of uncertainty on the timing of follow-on competition.
1 See Note 45 to the financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’.
2 Generic competition possible in 2015.
3 Generic competition possible in 2016.
GSK Annual Report 2014 229Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Pipeline, products and competition
continued
Pharmaceutical products, competition and intellectual property continued
Major Patent expiry dates
Products Compounds Indication(s) competitor brands USA EU
Anti-bacterials
Augmentin amoxicillin/clavulanate common bacterial generic products NA expired
potassium infections
Oncology
Arzerra ofatumumab refractory chronic MabThera/Rituxan, 2030 2023
lymphocytic leukaemia Imbruvica
Mekinist trametinib BRAF V600+ metastatic Yervoy, Opdivo, 2025 NA
melanoma Keytruda
Promacta/ eltrombopag idiopathic thrombocytopenic Nplate, 2022 2025
Revolade purpura, hepatitis C MabThera/Rituxan
associated thrombocytopenia
Tafinlar dabrafenib BRAF V600+ metastatic Yervoy, Zelboraf 2030 not yet granted
melanoma Opdivo, Keytruda
Tykerb/Tyverb lapatanib advanced and metastatic Herceptin, 2020 2023
breast cancer in HER2 Kadcyla
positive patients
Votrient pazopanib soft tissue sarcoma Yondelis, Sutent, 2023 2025
metastatic renal cell Nexavar, Afinitor
carcinoma Temsirolimus
Rare diseases
Volibris ambrisentan pulmonary hypertension Tracleer, Revatio NA 2020
Immuno-inflammation
Benlysta belimumab systemic lupus erythematosus 2023 2021
Vaccines
Boostrix diphtheria, tetanus, acellular booster vaccination Adacel 2017 2017
pertussis
Infanrix/Pediarix diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, Pentacel, Pediacel, NA 2016
polio, hepatitis B, polio, hepatitis B Pentaxim, Pentavac,
Haemophilus influenzae Haemophilus influenzae Hexaxim
type B type B
Cervarix HPV 16 & 18 virus like human papilloma virus Gardasil (Silgard) 2020 2020
particles (VLPs), AS04 type 16 and 18
adjuvant (MPL + aluminium
hydroxide)
Fluarix split inactivated influenza seasonal influenza Vaxigrip, Mutagrip, 2022 2022
virus subtypes A and Fluzone, Influvac,
subtype B antigens Aggripal, Fluad,
Intenza, Flumist
Fluarix Tetra split inactivated influenza seasonal influenza Intenza, Flumist QIV, 2022 2022
virus subtypes A and Vaxigrip QIV,
subtype B antigens Fluzone QIV,
Fluzone High Dose
FluLaval split inactivated influenza seasonal influenza Vaxigrip, Mutagrip, none none
virus subtypes A and Fluzone, Influvac,
subtype B antigens Aggripal, Fluad,
Intenza, Flumist
Pandemrix derived split inactivated A(H1N1)v2009 influenza Focetria, Celvapan, NA 2020
influenza virus antigen, prophylaxis
AS03 adjuvant
Prepandrix derived split inactivated pandemic H5N1 Aflunov, Vepacel not yet granted 2026
influenza virus antigen, influenza prophylaxis
AS03 adjuvant
Synflorix conjugated pneumococcal invasive pneumococcal Prevenar (Prevnar) NA 2021
polysaccharide disease, pneumonia
acute otitis media
230 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Pharmaceutical products, competition and intellectual property continued
Major Patent expiry dates3
Products Compounds Indication(s) competitor brands USA EU
HIV
Epzicom/Kivexa lamivudine and abacavir HIV/AIDS Truvada, Atripla 20161 20191
Stribild (combination) (combination)
Complera/Eviplera
Lexiva/Telzir fosamprenavir HIV/AIDS Prezista, Kaletra, 20181 2019
Reyataz
Selzentry maraviroc HIV/AIDS Isentress, Intelence, 2021 2022
Prezista
Tivicay dolutegravir HIV/AIDS Isentress, Prezista 2027 2026
Reyataz, Kaletra
Triumeq dolutegravir, lamivudine HIV/AIDS Truvada, Atripla 2027 2026
and abacavir Stribild
Complera/Eviplera
Trizivir lamivudine, zidovudine HIV/AIDS Truvada, Atripla 20161,2 2016
and abacavir Stribild (combination) (combination)
Complera/Eviplera
1 See Note 45 to the financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’.
2 Generic competition commenced in 2014.
3 Includes Supplementary Protection Certificates and other patent term extensions, where granted.
Consumer Healthcare products and competition
Brand Products Application Markets Competition
Wellness
Panadol and tablets, caplets, infant drops paracetamol-based treatment global (except US) Reckitt-Benckiser’s Nurofen
Panadol Cold for headache, joint pain, Bayer’s Aspirin
& Flu fever, cold symptoms Johnson & Johnson’s Tylenol
Retailer own label
ENO effervescent immediate relief antacid global (except US) Hypermarcas’ Estomazil
Pfizer’s Gelusil
Tums chewable tablets immediate relief antacid US Sanofi’s Rolaids
Bayer’s Alka-Seltzer
Retailer own label
Nicorette (US), lozenges, gum and treatment of nicotine global Novartis’s Nicotinell
Nicoderm, trans-dermal patch withdrawal as an aid to Johnson & Johnson’s Nicorette
NiQuitin CQ smoking reduction and (except US)
and Nicabate cessation Retailer own label
Oral health
Sensodyne toothpastes, toothbrushes treat and prevent dental global Colgate-Palmolive’s
mouth rinse sensitivity and acid erosion Colgate Sensitive Pro Relief
Proctor and Gamble’s
Crest Sensi-Relief and
Crest Sensi-Stop Strips
Polident denture adhesive, denture improve comfort of global Procter & Gamble’s Fixodent
Poligrip cleanser fitted dentures and to Reckitt-Benckiser’s Kukident
Corega clean dentures and Steradent
Aquafresh toothpastes, toothbrushes prevention of caries, gum global Colgate-Palmolive’s Colgate
mouthwashes disease and bad breath Procter & Gamble’s Crest
and Oral-B
Nutrition
Horlicks malted drinks and foods nutritional Indian sub continent, Mondelez’s Bournvita
beverages & food UK, Ireland Nestle’s Milo
Skin health
Physiogel moisturising, creams, face and body care for dry, Germany, France, Italy, L’Oreal’s La Roche Posay
lotions and cleansers sensitive and irritated skin Poland, Spain Beiersdorf’s Eucerin
Pierre Fabre’s Avene
Zovirax topical cream lip care to treat and prevent global Johnson & Johnson’s Compeed
Abreva the onset of cold sores Carma Labs Carmex
Blistex Incorporated’s Blistex
Retailer own label
GSK Annual Report 2014 231Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Principal risks and uncertainties
Risk factors
The principal risks discussed below are the risks and uncertainties Healthcare Products, and affect not only the cost of product
relevant to our business, financial condition and results of operations development but also the time required to reach the market and
that may affect our performance and ability to achieve our objectives. the uncertainty of successfully doing so.
The factors below are those that we believe could cause our actual
Moreover, as rules and regulations change, and governmental results to differ materially from expected and historical results.
interpretation of those rules and regulations evolves, the nature of
We operate on a global basis in an industry that is both highly a particular risk may change. Changes to certain regulatory regimes
competitive and highly regulated. Our competitors may make may be substantial. Any change in, and any failure to comply with,
significant product innovations and technical advances and may applicable law and regulation could materially and adversely affect
intensify price competition. In light of this competitive environment, our financial results.
continued development of commercially viable new products and the
Similarly, our business exposes us to litigation and government
development of additional uses for existing products are critical to
investigations, including but not limited to product liability litigation,
our ability to maintain or increase overall sales.
patent and antitrust litigation and sales and marketing litigation. Litigation
Developing new pharmaceutical, vaccine and consumer healthcare and government investigations, including related provisions we may
products is a costly, lengthy and uncertain process, however, and a make for unfavourable outcomes and increases in related costs such as
product candidate may fail at any stage, including after significant insurance premiums, could materially and adversely affect our financial
Group economic and human resources have been invested. Our results. More detail on the status and various uncertainties involved in
competitors’ products or pricing strategies or any failure on our the significant unresolved disputes and potential litigation is set out in
part to develop commercially successful products, or to develop Note 45, ‘Legal proceedings,’ on page 206.
additional uses for existing products, could materially and adversely
UK regulations require a discussion of the mitigating activities
affect our financial results.
a company takes to address principal risks and uncertainties.
We must also adapt to and comply with a broad range of laws A summary of the activities that the Group takes to manage each
and regulations. These requirements apply to research and of our principal risks accompanies the description of each principal
development, manufacturing, testing, approval, distribution, risk below. The principal risk factors and uncertainties are not listed
sales and marketing of Pharmaceutical, Vaccine and Consumer in order of significance.
Patient safety
Risk definition of paramount importance, and the CMO has the authoritative role
Failure to appropriately collect, review, follow up, or report adverse events for evaluating and addressing matters of human safety. Individual
from all potential sources, and to act on any relevant findings in a timely Medical Officers and the Group’s substantial Global Safety and
manner. Pharmacovigilance organisation keep track of any adverse issues
reported for our products during the course of clinical studies.
Risk impact
The impact of this risk is potentially to compromise our ability to conduct Once a Group product is approved for marketing, the Group has an
robust safety signal detection and interpretation and to ensure that extensive post-marketing surveillance and signal detection system.
appropriate decisions are taken with respect to the risk/benefit profile of Information on possible side effects of medicines is received from several
our products, including the completeness and accuracy of product labels sources including unsolicited reports from health professionals and
and the pursuit of additional studies/analyses, as appropriate. This could patients, regulatory authorities, medical and scientific literature and the
lead to potential harm to patients, reputational damage, product liability media. It is our policy that employees are required to report immediately
claims or other litigation, governmental investigation, regulatory action any issues relating to the safety or quality of its medicines. Each of our
such as fines, penalties or loss of product authorisation. country managers is responsible for monitoring, exception tracking and
training that helps assure the collection of safety information and
Context
reporting the information to the relevant central safety department,
Pre-clinical and clinical trials are conducted during the development
in accordance with Group policy and legal requirements.
of investigational Pharmaceutical, Vaccine and Consumer Healthcare
Products to determine the safety and efficacy of the products for use Information that changes the benefit/risk profile of one of the Group’s
by humans. Notwithstanding the efforts we make to determine the safety medicines will result in certain actions to characterise, communicate
of our products through appropriate pre-clinical and clinical trials, and minimise the risk. Proposed actions are discussed with regulatory
unanticipated side effects may become evident only when products are authorities and can include modifying the prescribing information,
widely introduced into the marketplace. Questions may be raised not only communications to physicians and other healthcare providers,
by our ongoing safety surveillance and post-marketing studies but also restrictions on product prescribing/availability to help assure safe use,
by governmental agencies and third-parties that may analyse publicly and sometimes carrying out further clinical trials. In certain cases, it may
available clinical trial results. be appropriate to stop clinical trials or to withdraw the medicine from the
market. The Group’s Global Safety Board (GSB), comprising senior
The Group is currently a defendant in a number of product liability
physicians and representatives of supporting functions, is an integral
lawsuits, including class actions, that involve significant claims for
component of the system. The GSB (including subsidiary boards
damages related to our products. Litigation, particularly in the US, is
dedicated to Consumer Healthcare Products and Vaccines) reviews
inherently unpredictable. Class actions that seek to sweep together all
the safety of investigational and marketed products across the Group
persons who were prescribed our products increase the potential liability.
and has the authority to stop a clinical trial if continued conduct of such
Claims for pain and suffering and punitive damages are frequently
trial is not ethically or scientifically justified in light of information that has
asserted in product liability actions and, if allowed, can represent
emerged since the start of the trial.
potentially open-ended exposure and thus, could materially and adversely
affect the Group’s financial results. In addition to the medical governance framework within the Group as
described above, the Group uses several mechanisms to foster the early
Mitigating activities
evaluation, mitigation, and resolution of disputes as they arise and of
The Chief Medical Officer (CMO) is responsible for medical governance potential claims even before they arise. The goal of the programmes is to
for the Group under a global policy. Under that policy, safeguarding create a culture of early identification and evaluation of risks and claims
human subjects in our clinical trials and patients who take our products is (actual or potential), in order to minimise liability and litigation.
232 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Intellectual property
Risk definition We depend on certain key products for a significant portion of our
Failure to appropriately secure and protect intellectual property sales. One such product is our respiratory pharmaceutical product
rights. Seretide/Advair which accounts for 18% of Group sales worldwide.
The timing and impact of entry in the US for a generic product
Risk impact
containing the same combination of active substances as Seretide/
Any failure to obtain or subsequent loss of patent protection,
Advair is uncertain. The US patent for compositions containing the
including reducing the availability or scope of patent rights or
combination of active substances in Seretide/Advair expired during
compulsory licensing (in which a government forces a manufacturer
2010 although the US patent on a component of the Advair Diskus
to license its patents for specific products to a competitor), could
device continues until August 2016. Generic products containing the
materially and adversely affect our financial results in those markets.
same combination of active substances as Seretide/Advair (in both
Absence of adequate patent or data exclusivity protection could limit
metered dose inhalers and dry powder inhalers) have been launched
the opportunity to rely on such markets for future sales growth for our
by several manufacturers in a number of European markets. The
products, which could also materially and adversely affect our
timing and impact of entry in the US and major markets in Europe
financial results.
for a ‘follow-on’ product to Seretide/Advair is uncertain.
Context
Generic drug manufacturers have also exhibited a readiness to
As an innovative Pharmaceutical, Vaccine and Consumer Healthcare
market generic versions of many of our most important products
Products company, we seek to obtain appropriate intellectual
prior to the expiration of our patents. Their efforts may involve
property protection for our products. Our ability to obtain and enforce
challenges to the validity or enforceability of a patent or assertions
patents and other proprietary rights with regard to our products is
that their generic product does not infringe our patents. As a result,
critical to our business strategy and success. Pharmaceutical and
we are and may continue to be involved in legal proceedings
Vaccine products are usually only protected from being copied by
involving patent challenges, which may materially and adversely
generic manufacturers during the period of exclusivity provided by
affect our financial results. Moreover, in the US, it has become
an issued patent or related intellectual property rights such as
increasingly common for patent infringement actions to prompt
Regulatory Data Protection or Orphan Drug status. Following
claims that anti-trust laws have been violated during the prosecution
expiration of certain intellectual property rights, a generic
of the patent or during litigation involving the defence of that patent.
manufacturer may lawfully produce a generic version of the product.
Such claims by direct and indirect purchasers and other payers are
We operate in markets where intellectual property laws and patent typically filed as class actions. The relief sought may include treble
offices are still developing and where governments may be unwilling damages and restitution claims. Similarly, anti-trust claims may be
to grant or enforce intellectual property rights in a fashion similar to brought by government entities or private parties following
more developed regions such as the EU, Japan and the US. Some settlement of patent litigation, alleging that such settlements are
developing countries have limited, or threatened to limit, effective anti-competitive and in violation of anti-trust laws. A successful
patent protection for pharmaceutical products generally, or in anti-trust claim by a private party or government entity could
particular therapeutic areas, in order to facilitate early competition materially and adversely affect our financial results.
within their markets from generic manufacturers.
The expiration dates for patents for our major products which may
We face competition from manufacturers of proprietary and generic affect the dates on which generic versions of our products may be
pharmaceutical products in all of our major markets. Introduction of introduced are set out on pages 229 to 231. Legal proceedings
generic products, particularly in the US where we have our highest involving patent challenges are set out in Note 45 to the financial
turnover and margins, typically leads to a rapid and dramatic loss statements, ‘Legal proceedings’.
of sales and reduces our revenues and margins for our proprietary
Mitigating activities
products. In 2014, we had nine Pharmaceutical and Vaccine
Our Global Patents group focuses on securing and protecting
products with over £500 million in annual global sales. For certain
our patent rights. This global group maintains internal processes
of these products, there is generic competition in the US and some
designed to help ensure successful procurement, enforcement and
markets in Europe. We may also experience an impact on sales of
defence of our patents with the goal of maintaining exclusive rights
one of our products due to the expiry or loss of patent protection for
in markets for our products.
a product marketed by a competitor in a similar product class or for
treatment of a similar disease condition. The Global Patents group monitors new developments in
international patent law to help ensure appropriate protection of
our assets. Sometimes acting through trade associations, we work
with local governments to seek to secure effective and balanced
intellectual property protection designed to meet the needs of
patients and payers while supporting long-term investment in
innovation.
GSK Annual Report 2014 233Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Principal risks and uncertainties
Risk factors – continued
Product quality
Risk definition We have adopted a single Quality Management System (QMS)
Failure to comply with current Good Manufacturing Practice that defines our quality standards and systems for our businesses
(cGMP) requirements in commercial manufacture, through the associated with Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and Consumer
distribution chain, by GSK, its contractors or suppliers; or through Healthcare Products and R&D investigational materials. The QMS
inadequate controls and governance of quality through product has a broad scope, covering the end-to-end supply chain from
development, and in supporting regulated activities. starting materials to distributed product, and is applicable
throughout the complete lifecycle of products from R&D to
Risk impact
mature commercial supply.
A failure to ensure product quality could have far reaching
implications in terms of patient and consumer safety, delays in The QMS is periodically updated based on experience, evolving
launching new products, drug shortages, product recalls, potential regulatory agency expectations and requirements and improved
damage to our reputation and that of the relevant product, as well scientific understanding to help ensure that operations comply
as regulatory, legal, and financial consequences, which could with cGMP requirements globally, and support the delivery of
materially and adversely affect our reputation and financial results. consistent and reliable products. A large network of quality and
compliance professionals is aligned with each business unit to
Context
provide oversight and assist the delivery of quality performance
Patients, consumers and healthcare professionals trust the quality
and operational compliance. Management oversight of those
of our products. A failure to ensure product quality is an enterprise
activities is accomplished through a hierarchy of quality council
risk which is applicable across all of our business activities.
meetings. Staff are trained to help ensure that standards, as
Product quality may be influenced by many factors including
well as expected behaviours based on our values, are followed.
product and process understanding, supply chain security,
Refresher training on cGMP issues includes a focus on the
consistency of manufacturing components, compliance with GMP,
issues raised in inspectional trends.
accuracy of labeling, reliability of the external supply chain, and the
embodiment of an overarching quality culture. The internal and We have implemented a risk-based approach to assessing and
external environment continues to evolve as new products, new managing our third-party suppliers that provide materials used in
markets and new legislation are introduced, particularly around finished products. Contract manufacturers making our products are
security of supply, good distribution practice and product expected to comply with standards identified by the Group and are
standards. Inspectional trending from national authorities during audited to help provide assurance that expected standards are met.
2014 has highlighted a focus on issues relating to data integrity,
The Chief Product Quality Officer oversees the activities of the
contamination and the robustness of quality investigations.
GSK Quality Council which serves as a forum to escalate
Mitigating activities emerging risks, share experiences of handling quality issues from
In medicines development, scientists adopt the principles of quality all of our businesses and help ensure that lessons learned are
by design for new products and devise control strategies to be assessed and deployed globally. The preparation for and
deployed throughout the product lifecycle to help ensure implementation of new legislation is regularly reviewed by the GSK
consistency and reliability in their performance and supply. Quality Council and advocacy and communication programmes
are used to maintain awareness of the external environment and
convey consistent messages across the Group. There is emphasis
on quality performance metrics and a culture of ‘right first time’.
234 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Supply chain continuity
Risk definition The failure of a small number of single-source, third-party suppliers
Failure to deliver a continuous supply of compliant finished product. or service providers to fulfill their contractual obligations in a timely
manner or as a result of regulatory non-compliance or physical
Risk impact
disruption of logistics and manufacturing sites may result in delays
A material interruption of supply or exclusion from healthcare
or service interruptions.
programmes could impact patient access to our products, expose
us to litigation or regulatory action and materially and adversely Mitigating activities
affect our financial results. In particular, the incurring of fines or Our supply chain model is designed to help ensure the supply,
disgorgement as a result of noncompliance with manufacturing quality and security of our products globally. We closely monitor,
practice regulations could also materially and adversely affect the through the Supply Chain Governance Committees, the inventory
Group’s financial results and result in reputational damage. status and delivery of our products to help ensure that our
customers have the medicines, vaccines and products they need.
Context
Safety stocks and backup supply arrangements for high revenue
Our supply chain operations are subject to review and approval by
and medically-critical products are in place, where practical, to
various regulatory agencies that effectively provide our licence to
help mitigate this risk. In addition, the compliance of manufacturing
operate. Failure by our manufacturing and distribution facilities or
external suppliers is routinely monitored in order to identify and
by suppliers of key services and materials could lead to litigation or
manage supply base risks.
regulatory action such as product recalls and seizures, interruption
of supply, delays in the approval of new products, and suspension Where practical, dependencies on single sources of critical items
of manufacturing operations pending resolution of manufacturing are removed. Our reliance on single source components was
or logistics issues. In 2014, our Consumer Healthcare business, reduced in 2014 for some key products through qualification of
particularly our Smokers’ Health products, alli and Bactroban, alternative materials that will help improve supply chain robustness.
were impacted by various supply issues and our Vaccines In cases, where dual sourcing is not possible, an inventory strategy
business, particularly our hepatitis vaccines and Boostrix, has been developed to protect the supply chain from unanticipated
were impacted by supply constraints. disruption.
Materials and services provided by third-party suppliers are In 2014, we continued to implement anti-counterfeit systems such
necessary for the commercial production of our products, including as product serialization in accordance with emerging requirements
active pharmaceutical ingredients (API), antigens, intermediates, to mitigate this risk.
commodities and components necessary for the manufacture and
Throughout 2014, our supply chain operating model was improved
packaging of many of our Pharmaceutical, Vaccine and Consumer
to strengthen the link between commercial forecasting and
Healthcare Products. Some of the third-party services procured, manufacturing by implementation of the Core Commercial
such as services provided by contract manufacturing organizations
Cycle methodology. This action will over time, decrease the risk
and clinical research organisations to support development of key
associated with demand fluctuations impacting ability to supply or
products, are important to ensure continuous operation of our
write-offs associated with product exceeding expiry dating. Under
businesses. Although we undertake business continuity planning,
the new model, each node of the supply chain is being optimised
single sourcing of certain components, bulk API, finished products,
to help ensure adequate safety stock while balancing working
and services creates a risk of failure of supply in the event of
capital associated with the end-to-end supply chain.
regulatory non-compliance or physical disruption at the
manufacturing sites or logistics system.
Financial reporting and disclosure
Risk definition Mitigating activities
Failure to report accurate financial information and material events The Group maintains a control environment designed to identify
in compliance with accounting standards and applicable legislation. material errors in financial reporting and disclosure. The design
and operating effectiveness of key financial reporting controls
Risk impact
is periodically tested. This provides us with the assurance that
Non-compliance with existing or new financial reporting and
controls over key financial reporting and disclosure processes
disclosure requirements, or changes to the recognition of income
have operated effectively.
and expenses, could expose us to litigation and regulatory action
and could materially and adversely affect our financial results. We keep up-to-date with the latest developments in financial
reporting requirements by working with our external auditors and
Context
legal advisors to help ensure adherence to relevant reporting and
New or revised accounting standards, rules and interpretations
disclosure requirements.
issued from time to time by the International Accounting Standards
Board could result in changes to the recognition of income and There is shared accountability for financial results across our
expense that may materially and adversely affect our financial results. businesses. Financial results are reviewed and approved by
regional management and then reviewed with the Financial
The Group is also required by the laws of various jurisdictions to
Controller and the Chief Financial Officer (CFO). This allows our
disclose publicly its financial results and events that could materially
Financial Controller and our CFO to assess the evolution of the
affect the financial results of the Group. Regulators routinely review
business over time, and to evaluate performance to plan. Significant
the financial statements of listed companies for compliance with
judgments are reviewed and confirmed by senior management.
accounting and regulatory requirements. The Group believes that it
complies with the appropriate regulatory requirements concerning The Group maintains a Disclosure Committee which reports to
our financial statements and disclosure of material information. the Board which reviews the Group’s quarterly results and Annual
However, should we be subject to an investigation into potential Report and determines throughout the year, in consultation with
non-compliance with accounting and disclosure requirements, its legal advisors, whether it is necessary to disclose publicly
there is potential for restatements of previously reported results information about the Group through Stock Exchange
and we could be subject to significant penalties. announcements.
GSK Annual Report 2014 235Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Principal risks and uncertainties
Risk factors – continued
Tax and treasury
Risk definition Liquidity risk is managed by diversifying our liquidity sources using
Failure to comply with current tax law, or react to the rapidly a range of facilities and by maintaining broad access to funding
evolving tax environment. Incurring significant losses due to markets in order to meet anticipated future funding requirements.
treasury activities. We also hold significant amounts of cash and investments which
are invested in line with strict investment guidelines.
Risk impact
Changes in tax laws or in their application with respect to matters Interest rate risk is managed by limiting the amount of floating rate
such as transfer pricing, foreign dividends, controlled companies, interest payments to a prescribed percentage of operating profit,
R&D tax credits, taxation of intellectual property or a restriction in and the mix of debt at fixed and floating interest rates is monitored
tax relief allowed on the interest on intra-group debt, could impact regularly by the TMG.
our effective tax rate. Significant losses may arise from Treasury
Foreign currency transaction risk arising on internal and external
activities through inconsistent application of Treasury policies,
trade flows is not generally hedged. Our internal trading
dealing or settlement errors, or counterparty defaults. Any such
transactions are matched centrally, and we manage inter-company
changes in tax laws or their application, failure to comply with tax
payment terms to reduce foreign currency risk. Foreign currency
law or significant losses due to treasury activities could materially
cash flows can be hedged selectively under the management of
and adversely affect our financial results.
Treasury and the TMG. Where possible, we manage the cash
Context surpluses or borrowing requirements of subsidiary companies
Our Treasury group deals in high value transactions, mostly foreign centrally. In order to reduce foreign currency translation exposure,
exchange and cash management transactions, on a daily basis. we seek to denominate borrowings in the currencies of our
The Group’s effective tax rate is driven by rates of tax in principal assets and cash flows. The TMG reviews the ratio
jurisdictions that are both higher and lower than the UK. In of borrowings to assets for the major currencies monthly.
addition, many jurisdictions currently offer regimes that encourage
Counterparty risk is managed by setting global counterparty limits
innovation and investment in science by providing tax incentives,
for each of our banking and investment counterparties based on
such as R&D tax credits and lower tax rates on income derived
long-term credit ratings from Moody’s and Standard and Poor’s.
from patents. Furthermore, as an international business, we face
Treasury’s usage of these limits is monitored daily by a Corporate
risks associated with intra-group transfer pricing.
Compliance Officer (CCO) who operates independently of
The tax charge included in our financial statements is our best Corporate Treasury. The CCO also monitors the credit rating
estimate of tax liability pending audits by tax authorities. We submit of these counterparties and, when changes in ratings occur,
tax returns according to statutory time limits and engage tax notifies Treasury so that changes can be made to investment
authorities to help ensure our tax affairs are current. In exceptional levels or to authority limits as appropriate.
cases where matters cannot be settled by agreement with tax
Further details on mitigation of Treasury Risks can be found on
authorities, we may have to resolve disputes through formal
page 190, Note 41, ‘Financial instruments and related disclosures’.
appeals or other proceedings. As an international business,
we are also subject to a range of other duties and taxes carrying We monitor government debate on tax policy in our key
similar types of risk. jurisdictions to deal proactively with any potential future changes
in tax law. Tax risk is managed by a set of policies and procedures
There is an increased focus on the tax position of multinational
to help ensure consistency and compliance with tax legislation.
businesses, as a consequence of the challenging economic
We engage advisors and legal counsel to review tax legislation
environment and the priority placed by the G20 on addressing
and applicability to our business.
allegations of unlawful tax avoidance. We have seen some increase
in audits as governments seek to raise revenues, both from We attempt to mitigate the risk of more aggressive tax authority
corporate taxes and above the line taxes such as customs duties. audits by being as up to date as possible with our tax affairs
Such audits regardless of their merit or outcomes can be costly, and working proactively with tax authorities where possible.
divert management attention and may adversely impact our We have also moved to a more centralised and simplified
reputation. In addition, there are an increasing number of changes intellectual property ownership and trading model. The model
to the international tax framework which could lead to an increase centralises our Pharmaceutical intellectual property in the UK,
or decrease in our tax costs. reducing the complexity of our inter-company arrangements and
enabling us to drive more bilateral Advance Pricing Agreements
Mitigating activities
(APAs) between the UK and other jurisdictions where we operate.
The Group’s Treasury function does not operate as a profit centre
APAs give greater certainty to the application of transfer pricing
and does not enter into financial derivative transactions for
and our direct tax affairs and hence reduce risks. A centralised
speculative purposes. All transactions in financial instruments are
team of dedicated specialists are responsible for managing
undertaken to manage the risks arising from underlying business
transactional tax reporting and compliance.
activities. Treasury activities are governed by policies approved by
the Board of Directors and compliance is regularly reviewed by the
Treasury Management Group (TMG), which is chaired by the CFO.
236 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Anti-Bribery and Corruption
Risk definition Mitigating activities
There is a risk that GSK personnel, or third parties acting on our Our Code of Conduct, values and behaviours and commitment
behalf, seek to induce improper performance of someone’s role to zero tolerance are integral to how we mitigate this risk. In light
in order to gain or retain GSK a business advantage through the of the complexity and geographic breadth of this risk, we
offer, promise or giving of a bribe. This goes against our ethical constantly enhance our oversight of activities and data, reinforce
standards and is contrary to the laws by which we are bound. to our employees and contractors clear expectations regarding
acceptable behaviours, and maintain on-going communications
Risk impact
between the Group centre headquarters and local markets.
Failure to mitigate this risk could expose the Group and associated
persons to governmental investigation, regulatory action and civil The Group has an enterprise-wide ABAC programme designed
and criminal liability, as well as damage the Group’s reputation, to respond to the threat and risk of bribery and corruption. It
shareholder value, and our licence to operate in particular builds on the Group’s values and existing standards to form a
jurisdictions, all of which could materially and adversely affect comprehensive and practical approach to compliance. Our ABAC
our financial results. programme is supported by: top-level commitment from the Group
Board of Directors and leadership throughout the business;
Context
ongoing risk assessment; a global policy; control documents that
We are exposed to bribery and corruption risk through our global
address commercial and other practices that give rise to ABAC
business operations. In some markets, the government structure
risk; due diligence of high risk third parties; ongoing training and
and the rule of law are less developed, and this has a bearing on
communications; a confidential reporting line; monitoring of
our bribery and corruption risk exposure. In addition to the global
compliance and an investigations team. In addition, the programme
nature of our business, the healthcare sector is highly competitive
mandates enhanced controls over interactions with government
and subject to regulation. This increases the instances where we
officials and when undertaking business development
are exposed to activities and interactions with bribery and
transactions. Programme governance is provided by the Group’s
corruption risk.
ABAC Oversight Committee which includes representation from
As has previously been disclosed, the Group in 2014 has been key functional areas and business units.
subject to regulatory action and media focus with regard to bribery
Additionally, we have a dedicated ABAC team responsible for the
investigations in China and other markets. On 19 September 2014,
implementation and evolution of the programme in response to
the Group announced that the Changsha Intermediate People’s
developments in the internal and external environment. This is
Court in Hunan Province, China ruled that, according to Chinese
complemented with ABAC investigations and ABAC Audit teams
law, GSK China Investment Co. Ltd (“GSKCI”) had offered money
which have separate reporting lines.
or property to non-government personnel in order to obtain
improper commercial gains, and been found guilty of bribing We continually benchmark our ABAC programme against other
non-government personnel. The verdict followed investigations large multi-national companies and use external expertise to review
initiated by China’s Ministry of Public Security in June 2013. and help improve elements of our ABAC programme. As a result
As a result of the Court’s verdict, GSKCI has paid a fine of of the China and other country investigations, the Group has
RMB 3 billion (£301 million) to the Chinese government. increased resources in both its centrally located ABAC team as
well as regional ABAC teams.
The US and UK authorities are leading extra-territorial
ABAC inquires into certain of the Group’s operations.
These investigations are further discussed in Note 45
‘Legal Proceedings’.
GSK Annual Report 2014 237Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Principal risks and uncertainties
Risk factors – continued
Commercial practices and scientific engagement
Risk definition At times, researchers, HCPs, healthcare organisations (HCOs)
Failure to engage in commercial and/or scientific activities that and other external experts that we engage may be compensated
are consistent with the letter and spirit of legal, industry, or the for services and expertise provided. However, payments must
Group’s requirements relating to marketing and communications not be excessive and must never be or be perceived to be an
about our medicines and associated therapeutic areas; inducement or reward for prescribing our products. Consistent
appropriate interactions with healthcare professionals (HCPs) with our ABAC policies, they also must comply with a market’s
and patients; and legitimate and transparent transfer of value. ABAC laws if the recipient of any payment is a government official.
Risk impact Mitigating activities
Failure to comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations may We have taken action at all levels of the Group to enhance and
result in governmental investigation, regulatory action and legal improve standards and procedures for Scientific Engagement
proceedings brought against the Group by governmental and and promotional interactions, based on our values of transparency,
private plaintiffs. Failure to provide accurate and complete respect, integrity and patient focus. We have policies and
information related to our products may result in incomplete standards governing promotional activities and Scientific
awareness of the benefit:risk profile of our medicines and possibly Engagement undertaken by the Group or on its behalf. All of these
suboptimal treatment of patients. Any of these consequences activities we conduct worldwide must conform to high ethical,
could materially and adversely affect our financial results. Any medical, and scientific standards. Where local standards differ
practices that are found to be misaligned with our values could from global standards, the more stringent of the two applies.
also result in reputational damage and dilute trust established
The Group has harmonized policies and procedures to guide
with key stakeholders. In 2012, we paid $3 billion to resolve above country Commercial Practices and Scientific Engagement
government investigations in the US focused in large part on
processes as well as clarified applicable standards when
promotional practices.
engaging in the markets. Specific accountability and authorisation
Context for Scientific Engagement resides within the Medical Governance
We are committed to legitimate Scientific Engagement and the framework that is overseen by the Medical Governance Executive
ethical and responsible commercialisation of medicines to support Committee (MGEC), accountable to the Chief Medical Officer.
our mission to improve the quality of human life by enabling people MGEC is responsible for oversight of applicable Policies and
to do more, feel better, and live longer. To accomplish this mission, ensuring the highest level of integrity and continuous development
we engage the healthcare community in various ways to advance of Scientific Engagement at GSK. Commercial Practices activities
our scientific knowledge as well as to provide important have oversight from both business unit Risk Management and
information about our medicines. Compliance Boards (RMCBs) and Country Executive Boards
(CEBs) that manage risks across in-country business activities.
The Group disseminates information about its products through
both non-promotional Scientific Engagement and promotional All promotional materials and activities must be reviewed and
activities. The former is the interaction and exchange of information approved according to the Group’s policies and standards,
between the Group and partners and external communities in and conducted in accordance with local laws and regulations,
order to advance scientific and medical understanding including to help ensure that these materials and activities fairly represent
the appropriate development and use of our products; the the products or services of the Group. When necessary, we have
management of disease; and patient care. It is distinct from disciplined (up to and including termination) employees who have
promotional activities which may take place only after authorisation engaged in misconduct and have broadened our ability to claw
of a new product or indication, and must be conducted strictly in back remuneration from senior management in the event of
accordance with promotional laws, codes and the Group’s Policy. misconduct.
Promotion of approved medicines helps ensure that HCPs globally During 2014, we took further proactive risk mitigation steps to
have access to information they need, that patients have access to assure our operations reflect our values. GSK publicly committed
the medicines they need and that medicines are prescribed and to stop in 2016 various payments to HCPs and Healthcare
used in a manner that provides the maximum healthcare benefit to Organisations (HCOs). GSK also committed extended steps
patients. We are committed to communicating information related already taken in the US to changing its sales compensation model
to our approved products in a responsible, legal, and ethical globally from one based on sales targets to an approach that
manner. individually rewards our sales force on the quality of their
interactions with healthcare professionals, not on the end result.
238 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Research practices
Risk definition Mitigating activities
Failure adequately to protect and inform patients involved in human We established an Office of Animal Welfare, Ethics and Strategy
clinical trial research; conduct objective, ethical preclinical and (OAWES), led by the Chief of Animal Welfare, Ethics and Strategy,
clinical trials using sound scientific principles; guarantee the integrity to help ensure the humane and responsible care of animals and
of discovery, preclinical, and clinical development data; manage increase the knowledge and application of non-animal alternatives
human biological samples according to established ethical for the Group. OAWES embeds a framework of animal welfare
standards and regulatory expectations; treat animals ethically and governance, promotes application of 3Rs (replacement, refinement
practice good animal welfare; appropriately disclose human subject and reduction of animals in research), explores opportunities for
research for medicinal products; and ensure the integrity of our cross-industry data sharing, and conducts quality assessments.
regulatory filings and of the data that we publish.
We report the results of our human subject research for our
Risk impact medicines and vaccines on our publicly accessible clinical study
The impacts of the risk include harm to patients, reputational register website, on government-required repositories, and we
damage, failure to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals submit human research results as manuscripts for publication in
for our products, governmental investigation, legal proceedings peer reviewed scientific journals. During 2014, we disclosed over
(product liability suits and claims for damages), and regulatory 130 Clinical Study Reports of marketed and terminated medicines
action such as fines, penalties or loss of product authorisation, (once the research results were published in the scientific literature)
which could materially and adversely affect our financial results. on our register. In early 2014, the GSK online system to allow
researchers to request access to anonymised patient-level data from
Context
the Group’s clinical trials, was re-configured into a multi-sponsor
Research relating to animals can raise ethical concerns. While we
request site, www.clinicalstudydatarequest.com, to include studies
attempt to proactively address this, animal studies remain a vital part
conducted by other sponsors and by the end of 2014 we had listed
of our research. In many cases, they are the only method that can be
over 1000 GSK trials available for request.
used to investigate the effects of a potential new medicine in a living
body before it is tested in humans, and they are generally mandated We have a Global Human Biological Samples Management (HBSM)
by regulators and ethically imperative. Animal research can provide governance framework in place to oversee the ethical and lawful
critical information about the causes of diseases and how they acquisition and management of human biological samples. Our
develop. Some countries require additional animal testing even global HBSM network champions HBSM activities and provides an
when medicines have been approved for use elsewhere. experienced group to support internal Sample Custodians on best
practice.
Clinical trials in healthy volunteers and patients are used to assess
and demonstrate an investigational product’s efficacy and safety It remains an important priority to enhance our data integrity
or further evaluate the product once it has been approved for controls. During 2014 we established plans to develop new written
marketing. We also work with human biological samples. These standards to ensure the integrity of our data across Research and
samples are fundamental to the discovery, development and safety Development (R&D). A Data Integrity Committee was established to
monitoring of our products. provide oversight and a Data Integrity Quality Assurance team was
created to provide independent business monitoring of our internal
The integrity of our data is essential to success in all stages of
controls for R&D activities.
the research data lifecycle: design, generation, recording and
management, analysis, reporting and storage and retrieval. The Chief Regulatory Officer oversees the activities of the
Our research data is governed by legislation and regulatory Regulatory Governance Board which includes promoting
requirements. compliance with regulatory requirements and Group-wide
standards, making regulatory services more efficient and agile,
Research data and supporting documents are core components
and further aligning regulatory capabilities with our international
at various stages of pipeline progression decision-making and also
business needs at the enterprise and local levels.
form the content of regulatory submissions. Poor data integrity can
compromise our research efforts.
There are innate complexities and interdependencies required
for regulatory filings, particularly given our global research and
development footprint. Rapid changes in submission requirements
in developing countries continue to increase the complexity of
worldwide product registration.
GSK Annual Report 2014 239Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Principal risks and uncertainties
Risk factors – continued
Environment, health and safety and sustainability
Risk definition Mitigating activities
Failure to manage environment, health and safety and sustainability The Corporate Executive Team is responsible for EHSS
(EHSS) risks consistent with the Group’s ethics, objectives, governance for the Group under a global policy. Under that policy,
policies and relevant laws and regulations. the CET ensures there are systems in place to manage the risks,
impacts and legal compliance issues that relate to EHSS and for
Risk impact
assigning responsibility to senior managers for providing and
Failure to manage EHSS risks could lead to significant harm to
maintaining those systems. Individual managers are responsible for
people, the environment and communities in which we operate,
making sure the EHSS management system is effective and well
fines, failure to meet stakeholder expectations and regulatory
implemented in their respective business area and that it is fully
requirements, litigation or regulatory action, and damage to the
compliant with all applicable laws and regulations, adequately
Group’s reputation and could materially and adversely affect our
resourced, maintained, communicated, and monitored.
financial results.
Additionally, each employee is personally responsible for ensuring
Context that all applicable local standard operating procedures are
The Group is subject to health, safety and environmental laws of followed and expected to take responsibility for EHSS matters.
various jurisdictions. These laws impose duties to protect people,
Our risk-based, proactive approach is articulated in our Global
the environment and the communities in which we operate as well
EHS Standards which support our EHSS policy and objective to
as potential obligations to remediate contaminated sites. We have
discover, develop, manufacture, supply and sell our products
also been identified as a potentially responsible party under the
without harming people or the environment. In addition to the
US Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and
design and provision of safe facilities, plant and equipment, we
Liability Act at a number of sites for remediation costs relating to
operate rigorous procedures that help us eliminate hazards where
our use or ownership of such sites. Failure to manage these
practicable and protect employees’ health and well-being. Our
environmental risks properly could result in litigation, regulatory
employment practices are designed to create a work place culture
action and additional remedial costs that may materially and
in which all employees feel valued, respected, empowered and
adversely affect our financial results. See Note 45 to the financial
inspired to achieve our goals.
statements, ‘Legal proceedings’, for a discussion of the
environmental related proceedings in which we are involved. We Through our continuing efforts to improve environmental
routinely accrue amounts related to our liabilities for such matters. sustainability we have reduced water consumption, hazardous
waste, and energy consumption. We actively manage our
environmental remediation obligations to help ensure practices are
environmentally sustainable and compliant.
Our EHSS performance results are shared with the public each
year in our Responsible Business Supplement.
Information protection
Risk definition Mitigating activities
Risk to the Group’s business activity if critical or sensitive The Group has a global information protection policy that is
computer systems or information are not available when needed, supported through a dedicated programme of activity. To increase
are accessed by those not authorised, or are deliberately changed our focus on information security, the Group established the
or corrupted. Information Protection & Privacy function to provide strategy,
direction, and oversight while enhancing our global information
Risk impact
security capabilities.
Failure to adequately protect critical and sensitive systems and
information may result in our inability to maintain patent rights, We assess changes in our information protection risk environment
loss of commercial or strategic advantage, damage to our through briefings by government agencies, subscription to
reputation or business disruption including litigation or regulatory commercial threat intelligence services and knowledge sharing
sanction and fines, which could materially and adversely affect with other Pharmaceutical and cross-industry companies.
our financial results.
We aim to use industry best practices as part of our information
Context security policies, processes and technologies and invest in
We rely on critical and sensitive systems and data, such as strategies that are commensurate with the changing nature of the
corporate strategic plans, sensitive personally identifiable security threat landscape.
information, intellectual property, manufacturing systems and trade
We are also subject to various laws that govern the processing of
secrets. There is the potential that malicious or careless actions
Personally Identifiable Information (Pll). To help ensure compliance
expose our computer systems or information to misuse or
with cross-border PII transfer requirements, the Group’s Binding
unauthorised disclosure.
Corporate Rules (BCRs) have been approved by the UK
Information Commissioner’s Office for human resource and
research activities data. BCRs make it possible to transfer PII
internationally between the Group’s entities without individual
privacy agreements in each European Union country.
240 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Crisis and continuity management
Risk definition Mitigating activities
Inability to recover and sustain critical operations following a CCM governance for the Group is set forth in a global policy.
disruption or to respond to a crisis incident in a timely manner. Under that policy, each business unit and functional area head
(“BU”) ensures effective crisis management and business
Risk impact
continuity plans are in place that include authorised response and
Failure to manage crisis and continuity management (CCM)
recovery strategies, key areas of responsibility and clear
effectively can lead to prolonged business disruption, greater
communication routes before a business disruption occurs.
damage to the Group’s assets, and risk of supply disruption to
Additionally, each BU is represented on a CCM governance board
patients of a medicine, any of which could materially and adversely
which performs risk oversight and provides vital information to the
affect our financial results. Delays to operational activities and
CCM programme team regarding new threats, acquisitions or
delivery of our products to consumers and patients who rely on
significant business or organisational changes.
them could also expose us to litigation or regulatory action,
materially and adversely affect our financial results and lead to A dedicated team of CCM experts supports the business.
reputational damage. Their responsibilities include: chairing the governance board;
coordinating crisis management and business continuity training;
Context
facilitating exercises and monitoring to provide for global
The Group’s international operations, and those of its partners,
consistency and alignment; and centrally storing and monitoring
maintain a vast global footprint exposing our workforce, facilities,
updates for plans supporting our critical business processes.
operations and information technology to potential disruption
These activities help ensure an appropriate level of readiness and
resulting from a natural event (e.g. storm or earthquake), a man-
response capability is maintained. We also develop and maintain made event (e.g. civil unrest, terrorism), or a global emergency
partnerships with external bodies like the Business Continuity
(e.g. Ebola outbreak, Flu pandemic). Through effective crisis
Institute and the UN International Strategy for Disaster Risk
management and business continuity planning we are committed
Reduction which helps improve our business continuity initiatives
to providing for the health and safety of our people, minimising
in disaster prone areas and supports the development of
damage and impact to the Group, and maintaining functional
community resilience to disasters.
operations following a natural or man-made disaster,
or a public health emergency. We continually improve our CCM risk management programme
and tools based on learning from plan activations. For example, the
Group has implemented a Global Disaster Monitoring tool to
monitor disruptions and support local crisis teams with guidance
and central support as needed. We regularly evaluate and
introduce new tools to improve our CCM practices.
Third-Party Oversight
Risk definition Mitigating activities
Failure to maintain adequate governance and oversight over third-party It is our responsibility that all activities are performed safely and
relationships; failure of third-parties to meet their contractual, in compliance with applicable laws and GSK’s values, standards
regulatory, confidentiality or other obligations; failure of third-parties to and code of conduct. Each business unit leadership team retains
comply with the law or appropriately manage their respective ultimate accountability for managing third party interactions and
operations to mitigate the Principal Risks to the Group outlined above. risks, and for appropriately governing these interactions. When
working with third parties, all GSK employees are expected to
Risk impact
manage external interactions and commitments responsibly. This
Failure to adequately manage third-party relationships could result
expectation is embedded in our values and code of conduct.
in business interruption and exposure to risk ranging from sub-
optimal contractual terms and conditions, to severe business To help guide and enforce our global principles for interactions
sanctions and/or significant reputational damage. Any of these with third-parties we have in place a policy framework applicable
consequences could materially and adversely affect our business to buying goods and services, managing our external spend,
operations and financial results. paying and working with our third-parties. This policy framework
applies to all employees and complementary workers worldwide.
Context The framework is complemented by technical and local standards
Third parties are critical to our business delivery and are an integral
designed to help ensure alignment with the nature of third party
part of the solution to improve our productivity, quality, service and
interactions, such as good manufacturing practice and adherence
innovation. We rely on third-parties, including suppliers, distributors,
to local laws and regulations. Independent business monitoring
individual contractors, licensees, and other pharmaceutical and
of key financial and operational controls is in place and is
biotechnology collaboration partners for discovery, manufacture, and
supplemented by periodic checks from the company’s
marketing of our products and important business processes.
independent Audit & Assurance function.
However, these business relationships present a material risk.
To help enhance continuous monitoring and performance of third
For example, we share critical and sensitive information such as
party interactions we established in 2014 the Third Party Oversight
marketing plans, clinical data, and employee data with specific
programme. This global programme takes an enterprise view of
third parties who are conducting the relevant outsourced business
third party related risks, and will help strengthen due diligence
operations. Inadequate protection or misuse of this information
efforts on third parties and improve overall management of
by third parties could have significant business impact. Similarly,
our third party risks through the lifecycle of the third-party
we use distributors and agents in a range of activities such as
engagement. Oversight for the programme is provided from
promotion and tendering which have inherent risks such as
GSK’s Global Ethics and Compliance group.
inappropriate promotion or corruption. Insufficient internal
compliance and controls by the distributors could affect our
reputation. These risks are further increased by the complexities
of working with large numbers of third parties.
GSK Annual Report 2014 241Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Shareholder information
Share capital and control Share buy-back programme
The Board has been authorised to issue and allot Ordinary Shares
Details of our issued share capital and the number of shares under Article 9 of the company’s Articles of Association. The
held in Treasury as at 31 December 2014 can be found in Note 33 power under Article 9 and the authority for the company to make
to the financial statements, ‘Share capital and share premium purchases of its own shares are subject to shareholder authorities
account’. which are sought on an annual basis at our Annual General
Our Ordinary Shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange Meeting (AGM). Any shares purchased by the company may be
and are also quoted on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) cancelled or held as Treasury shares or used for satisfying Share
in the form of American Depositary Shares (ADS). Each ADS Options and Grants under Group Employee Share Plans.
represents two Ordinary Shares. For details of listed debt and We continued our long-term buy-back programme in 2014 and
where it is listed refer to Note 32 to the financial statements, 14.7 million shares were purchased at a total cost of £238 million.
‘Net debt’. The date of the final share purchase in 2014 was 24 June 2014.
Holders of Ordinary Shares and ADS are entitled to receive No shares were purchased in the period 25 June 2014 to
dividends (when declared), the company’s Annual Report or 19 February 2015.
Annual Summary, to attend and speak at general meetings of Our programme covers purchases of shares for cancellation or
the company, to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights. to be held as Treasury shares, in accordance with the authority
There are no restrictions on the transfer, or limitations on the renewed by shareholders at the AGM in May 2014, when the
holding, of Ordinary Shares and ADS and no requirements to company was authorised to purchase a maximum of just under
obtain approval prior to any transfers. No Ordinary Shares or ADS 486 million shares. Details of shares purchased, those cancelled,
carry any special rights with regard to control of the company and and those held as Treasury shares are disclosed in Note 33 to the
there are no restrictions on voting rights. Major shareholders have financial statements, ‘Share capital and share premium account’.
the same voting rights per share as all other shareholders. There
In determining specific share repurchase levels, the company
are no known arrangements under which financial rights are held
considers the development of free cash flow during the year. Given
by a person other than the holder of the shares and no known
the impact of the sustained strength of Sterling on free cash flow,
agreements on restrictions on share transfers or on voting rights.
the company suspended its share repurchase programme during
Shares acquired through our share schemes and plans rank 2014. Following the completion of the Novartis transaction, GSK
equally with the other shares in issue and have no special rights. intends to return to shareholders £4 billion of the net proceeds.
The trustees of our Employee Share Ownership Plan trusts have The company does not expect to make any Ordinary Share
waived their rights to dividends on shares held by those trusts. repurchases in 2015.
Exchange controls and other limitations Market capitalisation
affecting security holders The market capitalisation, based on shares in issue excluding
Other than certain economic sanctions, which may be in force Treasury shares, of GSK at 31 December 2014 was £66.92
from time to time, there are currently no applicable laws, decrees billion.
or regulations restricting the import or export of capital or affecting
At that date, GSK was the fourth largest company by market
the remittance of dividends or other payments to holders of the
capitalisation in the FTSE index.
company’s shares who are non-residents of the UK. Similarly, other
than certain economic sanctions which may be in force from time to Share price
2014 2013 2012
time, there are no limitations relating only to non-residents of the UK £ £ £
under English law or the company’s Articles of Association on the At 1 January 16.12 13.35 14.72
right to be a holder of, and to vote in respect of, the company’s
At 31 December 13.76 16.12 13.35
shares.
(Decrease)/increase (14.6)% 20.7% (9.3)%
Interests in voting rights High during the year 16.91 17.82 15.08
Other than as stated below, as far as we are aware, there are no Low during the year 13.24 13.35 13.18
persons with significant direct or indirect holdings in the company.
The table above sets out the middle market closing prices.
Information provided to the company pursuant to the Financial
The company’s share price decreased by 14.6% in 2014. This
Conduct Authority’s (FCA) Disclosure and Transparency Rules
compares with a decrease in the FTSE 100 index of 2.7% during
(DTRs) is published on a Regulatory Information Service and on
the year. The share price on 19 February 2015 was £15.26.
the company’s website.
At 19 February 2015, the company had received notifications in
accordance with the FCA’s DTRs of the following notifiable UK£ US$
interests in the voting rights in the company’s issued share capital:
18 75
*Percentage of 17 70
No. of issued
shares capital (%) 16 65
BlackRock, Inc. 304,779,454 6.27% 15 60
Legal & General Group Plc 149,809,659 3.08% 14 55
13 50
* P ercentage of Ordinary Shares in issue, excluding Treasury shares.
12 45
We have not acquired or disposed of any interests in our own
11 40
shares during the period under review, other than in connection
with our share buy-back programme. 10 35
09 30
31/12/11 31/12/12 31/12/13 31/12/14
UK share price (UK£) US ADS price (US$)
242 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Nature of trading market
The following tables set out, for the periods indicated, the high and low middle market closing quotations in pence for the shares on the
London Stock Exchange, and the high and low closing prices in US dollars for the ADS on the NYSE.
Ordinary Shares ADS
Pence per share US dollars per share
High Low High Low
February 2015* 1556 1453 47.94 43.96
January 2015 1500 1357 45.19 41.68
December 2014 1502 1327 47.14 41.30
November 2014 1485 1414 46.52 44.75
October 2014 1434 1324 45.90 42.88
September 2014 1467 1413 48.62 45.97
August 2014 1475 1377 49.10 46.35
Quarter ended 30 September 2014 1583 1377 54.52 45.97
Quarter ended 30 June 2014 1666 1543 56.39 51.55
Quarter ended 31 March 2014 1691 1554 56.66 50.90
Quarter ended 31 December 2013 1665 1546 53.68 49.31
Quarter ended 30 September 2013 1753 1558 52.96 50.17
Quarter ended 30 June 2013 1782 1520 53.59 46.79
Quarter ended 31 March 2013 1539 1359 46.91 43.93
Year ended 31 December 2012 1508 1318 47.45 41.90
Year ended 31 December 2011 1474 1312 45.74 40.53
Year ended 31 December 2010 1340 1095 42.97 32.34
* t o 19 February 2015
Analysis of shareholdings at 31 December 2014
Number of % of total % of total Number of
accounts accounts shares shares
Holding of shares
Up to 1,000 99,244 71.12 0.68 36,674,916
1,001 to 5,000 32,256 23.12 1.29 68,979,416
5,001 to 100,000 6,929 4.96 1.83 98,225,447
100,001 to 1,000,000 749 0.54 4.91 262,941,428
Over 1,000,000 357 0.26 91.29 4,888,476,025
139,535 100.00 100.00 5,355,297,232
Held by
Nominee companies 7,071 5.07 64.62 3,460,457,315
Investment and trust companies 27 0.02 0.06 3,399,366
Insurance companies 5 0.00 0.00 3,648
Individuals and other corporate bodies 132,429 94.91 10.03 537,234,534
BNY (Nominees) Limited 2 0.00 16.11 862,686,419
Held as Treasury shares by GlaxoSmithKline 1 0.00 9.18 491,515,950
139,535 100.00 100.00 5,355,297,232
BNY Mellon is the Depositary for the company’s ADSs, which are listed on the NYSE. Ordinary Shares representing the company’s
ADR programme, which is managed by the Depositary, are registered in the name of BNY (Nominees) Limited. At 19 February 2015,
BNY (Nominees) Limited held 863,571,705 Ordinary Shares representing 17.75% of the issued share capital (excluding Treasury shares)
at that date.
At 19 February 2015, the number of holders of Ordinary Shares in the USA was 1,044 with holdings of 1,088,475 Ordinary Shares,
and the number of registered holders of ADS was 26,022 with holdings of 431,785,852 ADS. Certain of these Ordinary Shares and
ADS were held by brokers or other nominees. As a result, the number of holders of record or registered holders in the USA is not
representative of the number of beneficial holders or of the residence of beneficial holders.
GSK Annual Report 2014 243Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Shareholder information
continued
Dividends UK shareholders
This summary only applies to a UK resident shareholder that holds
The company pays dividends quarterly and continues to return shares as capital assets.
cash to shareholders through its dividend policy. Dividends remain
an essential component of total shareholder return and the Taxation of dividends
company is committed to increasing its dividend over the long- UK resident shareholders will generally be subject to UK income
term. Details of the dividends declared, the amounts and the tax on the full amount of dividends paid, grossed up for the amount
payment dates are given in Note 16 to the financial statements, of a tax credit. The tax credit may be set against the individual’s
‘Dividends’. income tax liability in respect of the gross dividend, but is not
repayable to shareholders with a tax liability of less than the
Dividends per share associated tax credit. For the tax year 2010-11 and subsequent tax
The table below sets out the dividend per share and per ADS for the years, an additional rate of income tax on dividends was imposed
last five years. The dividend per ADS is translated into US dollars at for taxpayers whose income is above £150,000. UK resident
applicable exchange rates. shareholders that are corporation taxpayers should note that
dividends are generally entitled to exemption from corporation tax.
Year Dividend pence US$
2014 80 2.59 Taxation of capital gains
2013 78 2.47 UK shareholders may be liable for UK tax on gains on the disposal
2012 74 2.35 of shares or ADR. For disposals by individuals and subject to the
availability of any exemption or relief such as the annual exempt
2011 70 2.25
amount, a taxable capital gain accruing on a disposal of shares
2011 Supplemental* 5 0.16
or ADR will be taxed at 28% if, after all allowable deductions, such
2010 65 2.04
shareholders’ taxable income for the tax year exceeds the basic
* The 2011 supplemental dividend related to the disposal of certain rate income tax limit. In other cases, a taxable capital gain accruing
non-core OTC brands in North America. This was paid with the fourth on a disposal of shares or ADR may be taxed at 18% or 28% or at
quarter ordinary dividend for 2011. a combination of both rates. Corporation taxpayers may be entitled
to an indexation allowance which applies to reduce capital gains
Dividend calendar
to the extent that such gains arise due to inflation. Indexation
ADS ex-dividend Ex-dividend allowance may reduce a chargeable gain but will not create an
Quarter date date Record date Payment date
allowable loss.
Q4 2014 18 February 2015 19 February 2015 20 February 2015 9 April 2015
Q1 2015 13 May 2015 14 May 2015 15 May 2015 9 July 2015 Inheritance tax
Q2 2015 12 August 2015 13 August 2015 14 August 2015 1 October 2015 Individual shareholders may be liable to inheritance tax on the
transfer of shares or ADR. Tax may be charged on the amount by
Q3 2015 10 November 2015 12 November 2015 13 November 2015 14 January 2016
which the value of the shareholder’s estate is reduced as a result
of any transfer by way of gift or other disposal at less than full
Tax information for shareholders
market value. If such a gift or other disposal were subject to both
A summary of certain UK tax and US federal income tax UK inheritance tax and US estate or gift tax, the Estate and Gift
consequences for holders of shares and ADR who are citizens Tax Convention would generally provide for tax paid in the USA
of the UK or the USA is set out below. It is not a complete analysis to be credited against tax payable in the UK.
of all the possible tax consequences of the purchase, ownership
Stamp duty
or sale of these securities. It is intended only as a general guide.
UK stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax (SDRT) will, subject to
Holders are advised to consult their advisers with respect to the
certain exemptions, be payable on the transfer of shares at a rate
tax consequences of the purchase, ownership or sale of their
of 0.5% of the consideration for the transfer.
shares or ADR and the consequences under state and local
tax laws in the USA and the implications of the current UK/US
tax conventions.
US holders of ADR generally will be treated as the owners of
the underlying shares for the purposes of the current USA/UK
double taxation conventions relating to income and gains (Income
Tax Convention), estate and gift taxes (Estate and Gift Tax
Convention), and for purposes of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986, as amended (the Code).
244 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
US shareholders Stamp duty
This summary only applies to a shareholder (who is a citizen or UK stamp duty or SDRT will, subject to certain exemptions,
resident of the USA or a domestic corporation or a person that is be payable on any transfer of shares to the ADR custodian or
otherwise subject to US federal income tax on a net income basis depository at a rate of 1.5% of the amount of any consideration
in respect of the shares or ADR) that holds shares or ADR as provided (if transferred on sale), or their value (if transferred for
capital assets, is not resident in the UK for UK tax purposes and no consideration).
does not hold shares for the purposes of a trade, profession or
No SDRT would be payable on the transfer of, or agreement to
vocation that is carried on in the UK through a branch or agency.
transfer, an ADR. No UK stamp duty should be payable on the
The summary also does not address the tax treatment of holders transfer of an ADR provided that any instrument of transfer is
that are subject to special tax rules, such as banks, tax-exempt executed and remains at all times outside the UK. Any stamp duty
entities, insurance companies, dealers in securities or currencies, on the transfer of an ADR would be payable at a rate of 0.5% of
persons that hold shares or ADR as part of an integrated the consideration for the transfer. Any sale of the underlying shares
investment (including a ‘straddle’) comprised of a share or ADR would, subject to certain exceptions, result in liability to UK stamp
and one or more other positions, and persons that own (directly duty or, as the case may be, SDRT at a rate of 0.5%.
or indirectly) 10% or more of the voting stock of the company.
Annual General Meeting 2015
Taxation of dividends
The gross amount of dividends received is treated as foreign
2.30pm (UK time) on Thursday 7 May 2015
source dividend income for US tax purposes. It is not eligible
The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary,
for the dividend received deduction allowed to US corporations.
Westminster, London SW1P 3EE.
Dividends on ADR are payable in US dollars; dividends on shares
are payable in pounds Sterling. Dividends paid in pounds Sterling The AGM is the company’s principal forum for communication
will be included in income in the US dollar amount calculated by with private shareholders. In addition to the formal business,
reference to the exchange rate on the day the dividends are there will be a presentation by the CEO on the performance of
received by the holder. Subject to certain exceptions for short-term the Group and its future development. There will be an opportunity
or hedged positions, an individual eligible US holder will be subject for questions to be asked to the Board. Chairmen of the Board’s
to US taxation at a maximum rate of 23.8% in respect of qualified Committees will take questions relating to those Committees.
dividends.
Investors holding shares through a nominee service should arrange
Taxation of capital gains with that nominee service to be appointed as a proxy in respect of
Generally, US holders will not be subject to UK capital gains tax, their shareholding in order to attend and vote at the meeting.
but will be subject to US tax on capital gains realised on the sale
ADR holders wishing to attend the meeting must obtain a proxy
or other disposal of shares or ADR. Such gains will be long-term
from BNY Mellon, as Depositary, by notifying them of your request capital gains (subject to reduced rates of taxation for individual
to do so. This will enable you to attend and vote on the business
holders) if the shares or ADR were held for more than one year.
to be transacted. ADR holders may instruct BNY Mellon as to the
Information reporting and backup withholding way in which the shares represented by their ADR should be voted
Dividends and payments of the proceeds on a sale of shares or by completing and returning the voting card provided by the
ADR, paid within the USA or through certain US-related financial Depositary.
intermediaries are subject to information reporting and may be
Documents on display
subject to backup withholding unless the US holder is a
The Articles of Association of the company and Directors’ service
corporation or other exempt recipient or provides a taxpayer
contracts or, where applicable, letters of appointment between
identification number and certifies that no loss of exemption has
Directors and the company or any of its subsidiaries (and any side
occurred. Non-US holders generally are not subject to information
letters relating to severance terms and pension arrangements) are
reporting or backup withholding, but may be required to provide a
available for inspection at the company’s registered office and will
certification of their non-US status in connection with payments
be made available for inspection at the AGM.
received. Any amounts withheld will be allowed as a refund or
credit against a holder’s US federal income tax liability provided
the required information is furnished to the Internal Revenue
Service.
Estate and gift taxes
Under the Estate and Gift Tax Convention, a US shareholder is
not generally subject to UK inheritance tax.
GSK Annual Report 2014 245Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Shareholder information
continued
Financial calendar The definitions of political donations, political expenditure and
political organisations used in the legislation are very wide. In
Event Date particular, the definition of EU political organisations may extend to
Quarter 1 results’ announcement April/May 2015 bodies such as those concerned with policy review, law reform, the
Annual General Meeting May 2015 representation of the business community and special interest
Quarter 2 results’ announcement July 2015 groups such as those concerned with the environment, which the
Quarter 3 results’ announcement October 2015 company and its subsidiaries might wish to support. As a result,
Preliminary/Quarter 4 results’ announcement February 2016 the definitions may cover legitimate business activities not in the
ordinary sense considered to be political donations or political
Annual Report announcement February/March 2016
expenditure.
Annual Report/Summary distribution March 2016
Such activities are not designed to support any political party or
Information about the company, including the share price, is available
independent election candidate. The authority which the Board
on our website at www.gsk.com. Information made available on the
has sought annually is a precautionary measure to ensure that the
website does not constitute part of this Annual Report.
company and its subsidiaries do not inadvertently breach the
Results announcements legislation.
Results announcements are issued to the London Stock Exchange
Directors and are available on its news service. They are also sent to the
US Securities and Exchange Commission and the NYSE, issued Our Directors’ powers are determined by UK legislation and our
to the media and made available on our website. Articles of Association, which are available on our website. The
Articles may be amended by a special resolution of the members.
Financial reports
The Directors may exercise all the company’s powers provided that
The company publishes an Annual Report and, for the shareholder the Articles or applicable legislation do not stipulate that any such
not needing the full detail of the Annual Report, a Summary. powers must be exercised by the members.
These documents are available on our website from the date of
The rules about the appointment and replacement of Directors
publication. The Summary is sent to all shareholders. Shareholders
are contained in our Articles. They provide that Directors may be
may elect to receive the Annual Report by contacting the registrar.
appointed by an ordinary resolution of the members or by a resolution
Alternatively, shareholders may elect to receive notification by
of the Directors, provided that, in the latter instance, a Director
email of the publication of financial reports by registering on
appointed in this way retires at the first AGM following his or her
www.shareview.co.uk.
appointment.
Copies of previous financial reports are available on our website.
Our Articles also provide that Directors should normally be subject
Printed copies can be obtained from our registrar in the UK and
to re-election at the AGM at intervals of three years or annually if
from the GSK Response Center in the USA (see pages 249 and
they have held office for a continuous period of nine years or more.
250 for the contact details).
However, the Board agreed in 2011 that all Directors who wish to
continue as members of the Board should seek re-election
Donations to political organisations
annually in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
and political expenditure Members may remove a Director by passing an ordinary resolution
of which special notice has been given, or by passing a special
With effect from 1 January 2009, to ensure a consistent approach
resolution.
to political contributions across the Group, we introduced a global
policy to stop voluntarily all corporate political contributions. A Director may automatically cease to be a Director if:
In the period from 1 January 2009 to 31 December 2014, the • he or she becomes bankrupt or compounds with his or her
Group did not make any political donations to EU or non-EU creditors generally
organisations.
• he or she ceases to be a Director by virtue of the Companies
Notwithstanding the introduction of this policy, in accordance with Act or the Articles
the Federal Election Campaign Act in the USA, we continue to
• he or she is suffering from mental or physical ill health and the
support an employee-operated Political Action Committee (PAC)
Board resolves that he or she shall cease to be a Director that facilitates voluntary political donations by eligible GSK
employees. • he or she has missed Directors’ meetings for a continuous
period of six months without permission and the Board
The PAC is not controlled by GSK. Decisions on the amounts and
resolves that he or she shall cease to be a Director
recipients of contributions are made by participating employees
exercising their legal right to pool their resources and make • he or she is prohibited from being a Director by law
political contributions, which are subject to strict limitations. In
• he or she resigns
2014, a total of US$525,900 (US$484,810 in 2013) was donated
to political organisations by the GSK employee PAC. • he or she offers to resign and the Board accepts that offer
At the AGM in May 2001, shareholders first authorised the • all other Directors (being at least three in number) require
company to make donations to EU political organisations and to him or her to resign.
incur EU political expenditure, under the provisions of the Political
Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000, of up to £100,000
each year. This authority has since been renewed annually. The
Companies Act 2006 requires companies to continue to obtain
shareholder approval before they can make donations to EU
political organisations or incur EU political expenditure.
However, we do not make and do not intend to make donations to
political parties or independent election candidates, nor do we
make any donations to EU political organisations or incur EU
political expenditure.
246 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Directors’ conflicts of interest US law and regulation
All Directors have a duty under the Companies Act 2006 to avoid
A number of provisions of US law and regulation apply to the
a situation in which they have, or could have, a direct or indirect
company because our shares are quoted on the New York Stock
conflict of interest or possible conflict with the company. The duty
Exchange (NYSE) in the form of ADSs. applies, in particular, to the exploitation of any property, information or
opportunity whether or not the company could take advantage of it. NYSE rules
Our Articles provide a general power for the Board to authorise such In general, the NYSE rules permit the company to follow UK
conflicts. corporate governance practices instead of those applied in the
USA, provided that we explain any significant variations. This
The Nominations Committee has been authorised by the Board to
explanation is contained in our Form 20-F, which can be accessed
grant and periodically, but in any event annually, to review any
from the Securities and Exchange Commission’s (SEC) EDGAR
potential or actual conflict authorisations. Directors are not
database or via our website. NYSE rules that came into effect in
counted in the quorum for the authorisation of their own actual or
2005 require us to file annual and interim written affirmations
potential conflicts. Authorisations granted are recorded by the
concerning the Audit & Risk Committee and our statement on
Company Secretary in a register and are noted by the Board.
significant differences in corporate governance.
On an ongoing basis, the Directors are responsible for informing
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
the Company Secretary of any new actual or potential conflicts
Following a number of corporate and accounting scandals in the
that may arise or if there are any changes in circumstances that
USA, Congress passed the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
may affect an authorisation previously given. Even when provided
Sarbanes-Oxley is a wide-ranging piece of legislation concerned
with authorisation, a Director is not absolved from his or her
largely with financial reporting and corporate governance.
statutory duty to promote the success of the company. If an actual
conflict arises post-authorisation, the Board may choose to As recommended by the SEC, the company has established a
exclude the Director from receipt of the relevant information and Disclosure Committee. The Committee reports to the CEO, the
participation in the debate, or suspend the Director from the CFO and to the Audit & Risk Committee. It is chaired by the
Board, or, as a last resort, require the Director to resign. Company Secretary and the members consist of senior managers
from finance, legal, corporate communications and investor
The Nominations Committee reviewed the register of potential
relations.
conflict authorisations in October 2014 and reported to the Board
that the conflicts had been appropriately authorised and that the External legal counsel, the external auditors and internal experts
process for authorisation continues to operate effectively. Except are invited to attend its meetings periodically. It has responsibility
as described in Note 35 to the financial statements, ‘Related party for considering the materiality of information and, on a timely basis,
transactions’, during or at the end of the financial year no Director determining the disclosure of that information. It has responsibility
or connected person had any material interest in any contract of for the timely filing of reports with the SEC and the formal review of
significance with a Group company. the Annual Report and Form 20-F. In 2014, the Committee met 11
times.
Independent advice
The Board recognises that there may be occasions when one or Sarbanes-Oxley requires that the annual report on Form 20-F
more of the Directors feel it is necessary to take independent legal contain a statement as to whether a member of our Audit & Risk
and/or financial advice at the company’s expense. There is an Committee (ARC) is an audit committee financial expert as defined
agreed procedure, which is set out on our website, to enable them by Sarbanes-Oxley. Such a statement for each of the relevant
to do so. members of the ARC (Stacey Cartwright, Judy Lewent and Tom
de Swaan) is included in the Audit & Risk Committee report on
Indemnification of Directors
page 87 and in their biographies on pages 74 and 75. Additional
Qualifying third party indemnity provisions (as defined in the
disclosure requirements arise under section 302 and section
Companies Act 2006) are in force for the benefit of Directors and
404 of Sarbanes-Oxley in respect of disclosure controls and
former Directors who held office during 2014 and up to the signing
procedures and internal control over financial reporting.
of the Annual Report.
Change of control and essential contracts
We do not have contracts or other arrangements which individually
are fundamental to the ability of the business to operate effectively,
nor is the company party to any material agreements that would take
effect, be altered, or terminate upon a change of control following
a takeover bid. We do not have agreements with any Director that
would provide compensation for loss of office or employment
resulting from a takeover, except that provisions of the company’s
share plans may cause options and awards granted under such
plans to vest on a takeover. Details of the termination provisions in
the company’s framework for contracts for Executive Directors are
given on pages 124 and 125.
GSK Annual Report 2014 247Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Shareholder information
continued
Section 302: Corporate responsibility for financial reports • management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of
Sarbanes-Oxley also introduced a requirement for the CEO and internal control over financial reporting based on the framework,
the CFO to complete formal certifications, confirming that: Internal Control – Integrated Framework (2013) issued by
the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway
• they have each reviewed the annual report on Form 20-F Commission (COSO)
• based on their knowledge, the annual report on Form 20-F • there have been no changes in the Group’s internal control over
contains no material misstatements or omissions financial reporting during 2014 that have materially affected,
• based on their knowledge, the financial statements and other or are reasonably likely to affect materially, the Group’s internal
financial information fairly present, in all material respects, the control over financial reporting
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows as of • management has assessed the effectiveness of internal control
the dates, and for the periods, presented in the annual report on over financial reporting as at 31 December 2014 and its
Form 20-F conclusion will be filed as part of the Group’s Form 20-F, and
• they are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, which has audited the consolidated
controls and procedures that ensure that material information is financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December
made known to them, and have evaluated the effectiveness of 2014, has also assessed the effectiveness of the Group’s internal
these controls and procedures as at the year-end, the results of control over financial reporting under Auditing Standard No. 5 of
such evaluation being contained in the annual report on the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).
Form 20-F Their audit report will be filed with the Group’s Form 20-F.
• they are responsible for establishing and maintaining internal Section 13(r) of the US Securities Exchange Act
control over financial reporting that provides reasonable Section 13(r) of the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and amended, requires issuers to make specific disclosure in their Annual
the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in Reports of certain types of dealings with Iran, including transactions
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles or dealings with government-owned entities, as well as dealings with
entities sanctioned for activities related to terrorism or proliferation of
• they have disclosed in the annual report on Form 20-F any
weapons of mass destruction, even when those activities are not
changes in internal controls over financial reporting during the
prohibited by US law and do not involve US persons. The Group
period covered by the annual report on Form 20-F that have
does not have a legal entity based in Iran, but it does export certain
materially affected, or are reasonably likely to affect materially,
pharmaceutical and vaccine products to Iran, via sales by non-US
the company’s internal control over financial reporting, and they
entities, to two privately held Iranian distributors. The Group also
have disclosed, based on their most recent evaluation of internal
does business, via non-US entities, in other jurisdictions targeted by
control over financial reporting, to the external auditors and the
sanctions laws, including Syria, Crimea, North Korea and Sudan.
ARC, all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the We do not believe that any of the Group’s direct dealings with Iran
design or operation of internal controls over financial reporting
require specific disclosure under these requirements, and the Group
which are reasonably likely to affect adversely the company’s
limits sales to Iran, North Korea, Syria, Sudan and Cuba to essential
ability to record, process, summarise and report financial
medicines (determined in part using criteria set by the World Health
information, and any fraud (regardless of materiality) involving
Organization). The Group has no direct knowledge of the identity of
persons that have a significant role in the company’s internal
its distributors’ downstream customers in Iran, and it is possible that
control over financial reporting.
these customers include entities, such as government-owned
The Group has carried out an evaluation under the supervision hospitals and pharmacies, that are owned or controlled directly or
and with the participation of its management, including the CEO indirectly by the Iranian government or by persons or entities
and CFO, of the effectiveness of the design and operation sanctioned in connection with terrorism or proliferation activities.
of the Group’s disclosure controls and procedures as at Because the Group has no direct knowledge of its distributors’
31 December 2014. customers, it cannot establish the proportion of gross revenue or
sales potentially attributable to entities affiliated with the Iranian
There are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system
government or parties sanctioned for disclosable activities. As a
of disclosure controls and procedures, including the possibility
result, the Group is reporting the entire gross revenues (£0.2 million)
of human error and the circumvention or overriding of the controls
and net losses (£1.36 million) from the Group’s sales to Iran in 2014.
and procedures. Accordingly, even effective disclosure controls
and procedures can only provide reasonable assurance of The Group is also aware that some hospitals or other medical
achieving their control objectives. facilities in Lebanon may be affiliated with or controlled by Hezbollah,
which is designated by the United States as a terrorist organization.
The CEO and CFO expect to complete these certifications and
Again, the Group does not deal directly with such facilities and sells
report their conclusions on the effectiveness of disclosure controls
through a distributor. The Group is also unable to identify with
and procedures in February 2015, following which the certificates
certainty the degree or nature of any affiliation of the end customers
will be filed with the SEC as part of our Group’s Form 20-F.
with Hezbollah, and the Group is unable to establish the proportion
Section 404: Management’s annual report on internal control of gross revenue or sales potentially attributable to reportable
over financial reporting entities. As a result, the Group is reporting the entire gross revenues
In accordance with the requirements of section 404 of Sarbanes- (£41 million) and net profits (£16.3 million) from the Group’s sales to
Oxley, the following report is provided by management in respect Lebanon in 2014.
of the company’s internal control over financial reporting (as
defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the US Securities
Exchange Act of 1934):
• management is responsible for establishing and maintaining
adequate internal control over financial reporting for the Group.
Internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with IFRS
248 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Shareholder services and contacts
Registrar
The company’s registrar is:
Equiniti Limited
Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, BN99 6DA
www.shareview.co.uk
Tel: 0871 384 2991 (in the UK)*
Tel: +44(0)121 415 7067 (outside the UK)
Equiniti provides a range of services for shareholders:
Service What it offers How to participate
Dividend Reinvestment Plan As an alternative to receiving cash dividends you may A DRIP election form can be
(DRIP) choose to reinvest your dividends to buy more GSK downloaded from
shares. www.shareview.co.uk or
requested by telephoning Equiniti.
Dividend payment direct to your bank If you currently receive your dividends by cheque through A dividend bank mandate form can be
account (Bank Mandate) the post, you can instead have them paid directly into your downloaded from
bank or building society account. This is quicker, more www.shareview.co.uk or
secure and avoids the risk of your cheque going astray. requested by telephoning Equiniti.
Dividend payment direct to Instead of waiting for a sterling cheque to arrive by post, For more details on this service and the
bank account for overseas shareholders Equiniti will convert your dividend into your local currency costs involved please contact Equiniti.
and send it direct to your local bank account. This service
is available in over 100 countries worldwide.
Electronic communications Shareholders may elect to receive electronic notifications You can register at
of company communications including our Annual Report, www.shareview.co.uk
dividend payments (if paid by way of a Bank Mandate),
access to electronic tax vouchers and the availability of
online voting for all general meetings. Each time GSK
mails out hard copy shareholder documents you will
receive an email containing a link to the document or
relevant website.
Shareview service This enables you to create a free online portfolio to view You can register at:
your share balance and movements, update your address www.shareview.co.uk
and dividend payment instructions and register your votes
for our AGM.
Duplicate publications or mailings If you receive duplicate copies of this report or other Please contact Equiniti.
mailings, please contact Equiniti and they will arrange for
your accounts to be merged into one for your convenience
and to avoid waste and unnecessary costs.
Share dealing service† Shareholders may trade shares, either held in certificated For internet transactions, please log on
(please note that market trading hours form or held in our Corporate Sponsored Nominee, by to www.shareview.co.uk/dealing.
are from 8.00am to 4.30pm UK time, internet, telephone or by a postal dealing service provided
For telephone transactions, please call
Monday to Friday, excluding UK public by Equiniti Financial Services Limited.
0845 603 7037 (in the UK) or
holidays)
+44 (0)121 415 7560 (outside the UK).
For postal transactions, please call
0871 384 2991 to request a dealing
form.
Corporate Sponsored Nominee Account This is a convenient way to manage your shares without An application form can be downloaded
requiring a share certificate. The service provides a facility from
for you to hold your shares in a nominee company www.shareview.co.uk or
sponsored by the company. You will continue to receive requested by telephoning Equiniti.
dividend payments, annual reports and can attend and
vote at the company’s general meetings. Shareholders’
names do not appear on the publicly available share
register and the service is free to join.
Individual Savings Accounts (ISAs)† The company has arranged for Equiniti Financial Services Details are available from
Limited to provide a GSK Corporate ISA to hold GSK www.shareview.co.uk or can be
Ordinary Shares. requested by telephoning Equiniti.
* UK lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday, except UK public holidays, and calls to the number are charged at 8p
per minute plus network extras.
† The provision of share dealing details is not intended to be an invitation or inducement to engage in an investment activity. Advice on
share dealing should be obtained from a stockbroker or independent financial adviser.
GSK Annual Report 2014 249Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Shareholder information
continued
ADR Depositary Contacts
Investor relations
The ADR programme is administered by The Bank of New York
Mellon: Investor relations may be contacted as follows:
UK BNY Mellon Shareowner Services
980 Great West Road
PO Box 30170
Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS
College Station, TX 77842-3170
Tel: +44 (0)20 8047 5000
Overnight correspondence should be sent to:
USA
BNY Mellon Shareowner Services
Five Crescent Drive
211 Quality Circle, Suite 210
Philadelphia PA 19112
College Station, TX 77845
Tel: 1 888 825 5249 (US toll free)
www.mybnymdr.com Tel: +1 215 751 4611 (outside the USA)
Tel: 1 877 353 1154 (US toll free)
Tel: +1 201 680 6825 (outside the USA) GSK Response Center
email: shrrelations@cpushareownerservices.com Tel: 1 888 825 5249 (US toll free)
The Depositary also provides Global BuyDIRECT†, a direct ADS Share scam alert
purchase/sale and dividend reinvestment plan for ADR holders. If you receive an unsolicited telephone call offering to sell or buy
For details of how to enrol please visit www.mybnymdr.com or call your shares, please take extra care. The caller may be part of a
the above helpline number to obtain an enrolment pack. highly organised financial scam.
Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham If you are a UK shareholder, please contact the Financial Conduct
Corporate PEPs Authority for further information on this, or other similar activities,
The Share Centre Limited at www.fca.org.uk/consumers or on its consumer helpline:
Oxford House, Oxford Road, Aylesbury, Bucks HP21 8SZ Tel: 0845 606 1234 (in the UK)
Tel: +44 (0)1296 414 141 Lines are open from 8.00am to 6.00pm, UK time,
www.share.com Monday to Friday, except UK public holidays.
Donating shares to Save the Children Responsible Business Supplement
In 2013, GSK embarked on an ambitious global partnership with We are publishing our Responsible Business Supplement 2014
Save the Children to share our expertise and resources with the online. This will outline GSK’s approach to, and performance in,
aim of helping to save the lives of one million children. our key responsible business areas, Health for all, Our behaviour,
Our people and Our planet.
Shareholders with a small number of shares, the value of which
makes it uneconomical to sell, may wish to consider donating them
to Save the Children. Donated shares will be aggregated and sold
by Save the Children who will use the funds raised to help them
reach the above goal.†
To obtain a share donation form, please contact our registrar,
Equiniti, who is managing the donation and sale of UK shares to
Save the Children free of charge.
† The provision of share dealing details is not intended to be an
invitation or inducement to engage in an investment activity.
Advice on share dealing should be obtained from a stockbroker
or independent financial adviser.
250 GSK Annual Report 2014Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Glossary of terms
Terms used in the Annual Report US equivalent or brief description
Accelerated capital allowances Tax allowance in excess of depreciation arising from the purchase of fixed assets that delay
the charging and payment of tax. The equivalent of tax depreciation.
American Depositary Receipt (ADR) Receipt evidencing title to an ADS. Each GSK ADR represents two Ordinary Shares.
American Depositary Shares (ADS) Listed on the New York Stock Exchange; represents two Ordinary Shares.
Basic earnings per share Basic income per share.
Called up share capital Ordinary Shares, issued and fully paid.
CER growth Growth at constant exchange rates.
The company GlaxoSmithKline plc.
Corporate Integrity Agreement (CIA) In 2012, the company entered into a settlement with the US Federal Government related to past
sales and marketing practices. As part of the settlement the company entered into a Corporate
Integrity Agreement with the US Department of Health and Human Services, under which
improvements are being built into its existing compliance programmes.
Currency swap An exchange of two currencies, coupled with a subsequent re-exchange of those currencies,
at agreed exchange rates and dates.
Defined benefit plan Pension plan with specific employee benefits, often called ‘final salary scheme’.
Defined contribution plan Pension plan with specific contributions and a level of pension dependent upon the growth
of the pension fund.
Derivative financial instrument A financial instrument that derives its value from the price or rate of some underlying item.
Diluted earnings per share Diluted income per share.
Employee Share Ownership Plan Trusts Trusts established by the Group to satisfy share-based employee incentive plans.
Equity Shareholders’ funds Shareholders’ equity.
Finance lease Capital lease.
Freehold Ownership with absolute rights in perpetuity.
The Group GlaxoSmithKline plc and its subsidiary undertakings.
GSK GlaxoSmithKline plc and its subsidiary undertakings.
Hedging The reduction of risk, normally in relation to foreign currency or interest rate movements,
by making off-setting commitments.
Intangible fixed assets Assets without physical substance, such as computer software, brands, licences, patents,
know-how and marketing rights purchased from outside parties.
Ordinary Share A fully paid up ordinary share in the capital of the company.
Profit Income.
Profit attributable to shareholders Net income.
Share capital Ordinary Shares, capital stock or common stock issued and fully paid.
Share option Stock option.
Share premium account Additional paid-up capital or paid-in surplus (not distributable).
Shares in issue The number of shares outstanding.
Subsidiary An entity in which GSK exercises control.
Treasury share Treasury stock.
Turnover Revenue.
UK Corporate Governance Code As required by the UK Listing Authority, the company has disclosed in the Annual Report how it
has applied the best practice corporate governance provisions of the Financial Reporting
Council’s UK Corporate Governance Code.
GSK Annual Report 2014 251Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Index
Page Page
Accounting principles and policies 140 Late-stage pipeline summary 29
Acquisitions and disposals 183 Legal proceedings 206
Adjustments reconciling profit after tax to operating Long-term Incentive plans 101
cash flows 181 Major restructuring costs 154
Annual General Meeting 2015 245 Movements in equity 179
Assets held for sale 166 Net debt 176
Associates and joint ventures 155 New accounting requirements 146
Cash and cash equivalents 166 Non-Executive Directors’ fees 110
CEO’s statement 4 Notes to the financial statements 140
Chairman’s statement 2 Operating profit 152
Commitments 189 Other intangible assets 162
Committee reports 85 Other investments 165
Competition 10 Other non-current assets 165
Consolidated balance sheet 137 Other non-current liabilities 176
Consolidated cash flow statement 139 Other operating income 151
Consolidated income statement 136 Other provisions 175
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 138 Our Board 72
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 136 Our business 18
Consumer Healthcare products and competition 231 Our people 44
Contingent liabilities 176 Our strategy priorities 12
Corporate Executive Team 76 Outlook 5
Corporate governance 78 Pensions and other post-employment benefits 167
Critical accounting policies 63 Pharmaceutical products, competition and
Directors and senior management 118 intellectual property 229
Directors’ interests in shares 111 Pipeline 229
Directors’ statement of responsibilities 130 Presentation of the financial statements 140
Dividends 158 Principal Group companies 204
Donations to political organisations and Property, plant and equipment 158
political expenditure 246 Proposed Novartis transaction 203
Earnings per share 158 Quarterly trend 218
Employee costs 153 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt 182
Employee share schemes 200 Registrar 249
Exchange rates 146 Related party transactions 181
Executive Director remuneration 97 Relations with shareholders 84
Finance expense 155 Remuneration policy report 119
Finance income 154 Remuneration report 96
Financial instruments and related disclosures 190 Research and development 24,32,34
Financial position and resources 65 Responsible business 36
Financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc, prepared Risk factors 232
under UK GAAP 211 Segment information 147
Five year record 222 Share capital and control 242
Glossary of terms 251 Share capital and share premium account 178
Goodwill 160 Share price 242
Group financial review 52 Shareholder information 242
Independent Auditors’ report 131 Taxation 156
Inventories 166 Tax information for shareholders 244
Investments in associates and joint ventures 164 The Remuneration Committee 108
Investor relations 250 Trade and other payables 167
Key accounting judgements and estimates 144 Trade and other receivables 166
Key performance indicators 14 US law and regulation 247
252 GSK Annual Report 2014B GSK Annual Report 2014
Strategic
Report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
About GSK
GlaxoSmithKline plc was incorporated as an Notice regarding limitations on
Director Liability under English Law
English public limited company on 6 December Under the UK Companies Act 2006, a safe harbour limits
the liability of Directors in respect of statements in and
1999. We were formed by a merger between omissions from the Directors’ Report (for which see page
95), the Strategic report and the Remuneration report.
Glaxo Wellcome plc and SmithKline Beecham Under English law the Directors would be liable to the
company, but not to any third party, if one or more of these
plc. GSK acquired these two English companies reports contained errors as a result of recklessness or
knowing misstatement or dishonest concealment of a
on 27 December 2000 as part of the merger material fact, but would otherwise not be liable. Pages 71
to 95, 130, 211 and 232 to 248 inclusive comprise the
arrangements. Directors’ Report, pages 2 to 70 inclusive comprise the
Strategic report and pages 96 to 118 inclusive comprise
the Remuneration report, each of which have been drawn
up and presented in accordance with and in reliance upon
English company law and the liabilities of the Directors
Our shares are listed on the London Stock in connection with these reports shall be subject to the
limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
Exchange and the New York Stock Exchange.
Website
GSK’s website www.gsk.com gives additional information
on the Group. Notwithstanding the references we make
Read more at www.gsk.com in this Annual Report to GSK’s website, none of the
information made available on the website constitutes part
of this Annual Report or shall be deemed to be incorporated
by reference herein.
Cautionary statement regarding
forward-looking statements
The Group’s reports filed with or furnished to the US
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including
this document and written information released, or oral
statements made, to the public in the future by or on behalf
of the Group, may contain forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements give the Group’s current
expectations or forecasts of future events. An investor
can identify these statements by the fact that they do not
relate strictly to historical or current facts. They use words
such as ‘anticipate’, ‘estimate’, ‘expect’, ‘intend’, ‘will’,
‘project’, ‘plan’, ‘believe’ and other words and terms of
similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future
Here you will find downloadable PDFs of: operating or financial performance. In particular, these
include statements relating to future actions, prospective
• Annual Report 2014 products or product approvals, future performance or
results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts,
• Annual Summary 2014 expenses, the outcome of contingencies such as legal
proceedings, and financial results. Other than in accordance
with its legal or regulatory obligations (including under the
• Form 20-F UK Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency
Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority), the Group
• Responsible Business Supplement 2014 undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking
statements, whether as a result of new information, future
events or otherwise. The reader should, however, consult
any additional disclosures that the Group may make in any
documents which it publishes and/or files with the SEC.
All readers, wherever located, should take note of these
disclosures. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that
any particular expectation will be met and shareholders are
cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-
looking statements.
Forward-looking statements are subject to assumptions,
inherent risks and uncertainties, many of which relate to
Brand names
factors that are beyond the Group’s control or precise
Brand names appearing in italics throughout this report estimate. The Group cautions investors that a number of
are trade marks either owned by and/or licensed to GSK important factors, including those in this document, could
or associated companies, with the exception of Boniva/ cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed
Bonviva, a trade mark of Roche, NicoDerm, a trade or implied in any forward-looking statement. Such factors
mark of Johnson & Johnson, Merrell, Novartis, Sanofi or include, but are not limited to, those discussed under ‘Risk
GlaxoSmithKline, Potiga, a trade mark of Valeant, Prolia factors’ on pages 232 - 241 of this Annual Report. Any
and Xgeva, trade marks of Amgen, Vesicare, a trade mark forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the
of Astellas Pharmaceuticals in many countries and of Group speak only as of the date they are made and are
Yamanouchi Pharmaceuticals in certain countries, Volibris, based upon the knowledge and information available to the
a trade mark of Gilead, Xyzal, a trade mark of UCB or GSK Directors on the date of this Annual Report.
and Zyrtec, a trade mark of UCB or GSK all of which are
used in certain countries under licence by the Group. A number of adjusted measures are used to report the
performance of our business. These measures are defined
Acknowledgements on page 52 and a reconciliation of core results to total
results is set out on page 61.
Design
Salterbaxter
The information in this document does not constitute an
offer to sell or an invitation to buy shares in GlaxoSmithKline
Printing
plc or an invitation or inducement to engage in any other
Printed at Pureprint Group, ISO 14001.
investment activities. Past performance cannot be relied
FSC certified and CarbonNeutral.
upon as a guide to future performance. Nothing in this
Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
Paper
This Annual Report is printed on
Amadeus 100 Silk, a 100% recycled
paper with full FSC certification. All pulps
used are made from 100% de-inked,
post-consumer waste and are elemental
chlorine free. The manufacturing mill
holds the ISO 14001 and EU Ecolabel
certificates for environmental
management.
GSK Annual Report 2014Doctors like Kaali (pictured) are on the frontline against malaria.
He works in Ghana, where he treats children with malaria and
educates families about how to prevent the disease. Along with
our partners, we are committed to fighting malaria on all fronts –
from improving access to medicines, to encouraging use of
preventative tools like bed nets, and searching for new treatments
as well as developing a potential vaccine.
Head Office and Registered Office www.gsk.com
GlaxoSmithKline plc
980 Great West Road
Brentford, Middlesex TW8 9GS You can also search for us here
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)20 8047 5000
Registered number: 3888792