Do more, feel better, live longer
Grow
Deliver
Simplify
Annual Report 2008Find out more about GSK online…
www.gsk.com
Website
GlaxoSmithKline’s website www.gsk.com gives additional information on the Group. Information made available on the website does not constitute part of
this Annual Report.
Notice regarding limitations on Director liability under English Law
Under the UK Companies Act 2006, a safe harbour limits the liability of Directors in respect of statements in and omissions from the Report of the Directors
contained on pages 12 to 98. Under English law the Directors would be liable to the company (but not to any third party) if the Report of the Directors
contains errors as a result of recklessness or knowing misstatement or dishonest concealment of a material fact, but would not otherwise be liable.
Report of the Directors
Pages 12 to 98 inclusive consist of a Report of the Directors that has been drawn up and presented in accordance with and in reliance upon English company
law and the liabilities of the Directors in connection with that report shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements
The Group’s reports filed with or furnished to the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including this document and written information released,
or oral statements made, to the public in the future by or on behalf of the Group, may contain forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements give
the Group’s current expectations or forecasts of future events. A shareholder can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to
historical or current facts. They use words such as ‘anticipate’, ‘estimate’, ‘expect’, ‘intend’, ‘will’, ‘project’, ‘plan’, ‘believe’ and other words and terms of similar
meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. In particular, these include statements relating to future actions,
prospective products or product approvals, future performance or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, the outcome of
contingencies such as legal proceedings, and financial results. The Group undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a
result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties. The Group cautions investors that a number of important factors, including those in this
document, could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement. Such factors include, but are not limited to,
those discussed under ‘Risk factors’ on pages 50 to 53 of this Annual Report.GSK Annual Report 2008 1
Grow Contents
a diversified global business
Chairman and CEO summary 3
Strategy 4
Deliver
more products of value Report of the Directors
Business review 12
Corporate governance 60
Remuneration Report 78
Simplify
Financial statements
the operating model
Directors’ statement of responsibilities 100
Independent Auditors’ report 101
Consolidated income statement 102
Consolidated balance sheet 103
Consolidated cash flow statement 104
Consolidated statement of
recognised income and expense 105
Notes to the financial statements 106
Financial statements of
GlaxoSmithKline plc 181
In 2008 we set out three new strategic Shareholder information
Financial record 188
priorities that aim to improve our long-term
Product development pipeline 199
financial performance. Shareholder information 203
Taxation information for shareholders 206
Glossary of terms 207
We believe these priorities will enable us to
Index 208
navigate the coming years successfully and
retain our leading-edge as a company able
to meet patients’ and payers’ needs into
the future.
Find out more about our priorities on the
following pages.2 GSK Annual Report 2008
Our mission
We have a challenging and inspiring
mission to improve the quality of human
life by enabling people to do more, feel
better and live longer.
By focusing our business around our
strategic priorities, we’re confident that
we can fulfil this promise.
Sir Christopher Gent Andrew Witty
Chairman Chief Executive OfficerGSK Annual Report 2008 3
Chairman and CEO summary
2008 marked a turning point for GSK and we are now in a pivotal Strategic priorities
period of change as we redefine our business model to increase In 2008 we established our three strategic priorities to: grow a
sales growth, reduce risk and deliver long-term sustainable financial diversified global business; deliver more products of value; and
performance to shareholders. simplify the operating model.
Financial performance* These priorities are designed to radically transform our business by
We are pleased with the response of the business to what we always reducing our relative dependence on small molecule pharmaceuticals
knew would be a challenging 12 months, due to the adverse impact in developed Western markets. We expect to see an increase in
of significant US patent expiries and further decline in Avandia sales. the relative importance of our emerging markets and Japanese
As anticipated, these factors led to a decline in earnings per share businesses and an increasingly greater contribution to our business
(EPS) for the year, which was compounded by an unexpected legal from vaccines and consumer products. We also anticipate a
charge in the fourth quarter. growing capability to deliver more products of value from R&D
which will not only deliver benefits to patients but will also more
Total sales for the year were £24.4 billion, down 3% in constant readily meet payers’ needs and therefore enable us to achieve more
exchange rate (CER) terms, and EPS excluding major restructuring rapid, reimbursed product approvals. Our expanded restructuring
was 104.7p, a decrease of 9% over 2007 in CER terms. Cash programme, which is expected to deliver annual savings of
generation remains strong, with net cash inflow from operating £1.7 billion by 2011, is a vital catalyst of this change.
activities of £7.2 billion, up 17% in sterling terms.
These priorities and the progress we made to implement them
The Board declared a dividend for the year of 57p, up from 53p for during 2008 are explained on the following pages. You can find
2007. During the year we completed share repurchases of £3.7 billion. more information, including regular updates on progress as we
We do not expect to make any significant repurchases in 2009. Our move through 2009, by visiting our website at www.gsk.com
financial strategy remains to maintain an efficient balance sheet, while
using cash resources to invest in our strategic priorities and increase Changes to the Board
returns to shareholders through our progressive dividend policy. Sir Ian Prosser and Dr Ronaldo Schmitz will retire from the Board
after the Annual General Meeting. We thank them for their
The performance of our core pharmaceuticals business and the dedicated service to the Boards of GSK and our heritage companies
increasing diversification of its sales base are important indicators of and for the valuable contributions they have made to our business.
GSK’s progress. Our pharmaceutical turnover declined 3% in CER
terms, reflecting the adverse impact of generic competition to our In May 2009, we welcome James Murdoch to the Board, as a Non-
patented products and lower Avandia and pandemic product sales. Executive Director. As the Chairman and Chief Executive of News
Excluding genericised products, Avandia and pandemic products, Corporation Europe and Asia, James brings great experience and
which have significant sales volatility, the remaining pharmaceuticals expertise to our boardroom, which will be particularly evident in
business delivered £16.4 billion in sales and grew by 10% in CER his role as a member of GSK’s Corporate Responsibility Committee.
terms. Within this, vaccines sales rose by 20% to £2.47 billion.
Outlook
Our sales in emerging markets grew by 12% to £2.3 billion. Sales in Asia We enter 2009 with confidence and expect to make further good
Pacific and Japan totalled £1.9 billion; we are now moving into a phase progress in implementing our strategic priorities that will enable
of converting our extensive pipeline in Japan into approved medicines. us to meet our long-term objective of reducing risk and delivering
sustainable growth to shareholders.
In 2008, we continued the good work of the previous year and
launched 12 pharmaceutical products including vaccines. We are Finally, we would especially like to recognise the enormous
now also starting to see good traction with our new pharmaceutical contribution of our employees and our wide network of partners.
products launched in the last two years, which contributed sales of Their willingness, energy and enthusiasm for change are strong
almost £0.8 billion during the year. foundations on which to build our new business model.
Improved productivity and disciplined allocation of capital are key
elements of our R&D strategy. We currently have around 30 assets
in our late-stage pipeline, a level we aim to sustain. The augmentation
of our pipeline, over the past few years, has been accomplished
without substantial increases in total R&D expenditure.
Sir Christopher Gent Andrew Witty
Sales in Consumer Healthcare were just under £4 billion and we are Chairman Chief Executive Officer
making good progress with our strategy of investment in innovation,
acquisitions and marketing excellence in this area of our business.
To find out more visit us at
* Constant exchange rates (CER) are explained on page 16. www.gsk.com4 GSK Annual Report 2008
Our strategy
The pharmaceutical industry is experiencing a time of unprecedented Corporate responsibility
challenge. Patent expiries, regulatory issues and increased pressures Running our business in a responsible way is fundamental to
from healthcare providers have combined to create an environment our success and inseparable from our strategic priorities.
where our sector is associated with lower growth and higher risk.
We operate in a way that reflects our values, seeks to understand
We are addressing these challenges through three key strategic and respond to stakeholder views and connects our business decisions
priorities which we believe will transform GSK into a company that to ethical, social and environmental concerns. In this way we aim
delivers more growth, less risk and an improved financial performance. to minimise the negative impacts and maximise the positive benefits
of our business.
Key challenges
The patents on many medicines that have driven sales growth in our Responsibility is vital in all parts of our business and we understand the
industry over the last decade are coming to an end. These medicines need to be open about how we are operating. We also understand
may not be replaced by products of equivalent financial size. that transparency is a key factor in building trust with our stakeholders
and have implemented a number of initiatives to improve the
In addition, there are increasing pressures on pharmaceutical transparency of our activities.
companies to deliver products with demonstrable benefits over
current treatments. No longer do we merely have to discover and Comprehensive information on our approach to responsibility
develop products that help people do more, feel better and live issues can be found in our annual Corporate Responsibility Report
longer. We now have to justify that our products represent the at www.gsk.com/responsibility
greatest value for healthcare providers.
At the same time, the pharmaceutical sector has been exposed
to controversy regarding ethical and patient safety issues. As an
industry, we are in danger of eroding what trust we already have
when we actually need to be building stronger relationships with
governments, regulators and the general public.
These factors have combined to move the industry from one which
was expected to deliver high growth at low risk, to the very opposite.
Three strategic priorities
In 2008 we established the following three strategic priorities:
• Grow a diversified global business
• Deliver more products of value
• Simplify the operating model
We believe these priorities will enable us to navigate the coming
years successfully and retain our leading-edge as a company able
to meet patients’ and healthcare providers’ needs into the future.
Updates on our progress will be published on our website at
www.gsk.com and also feature in our regular financial results.GSK Annual Report 2008 5
Grow a diversified global business
We are reducing risk by broadening and balancing our portfolio,
diversifying into new product areas that show potential, while
also fully capturing opportunities for our products across all
geographic boundaries.
The plans which underpin this strategic priority:
• Drive growth in the pharmaceutical business in
our core markets
• Deliver our ambitious vaccines forecast
• Fulfil the potential of emerging markets
• Expand our business in Japan
• Grow the Consumer Healthcare business
To find out more go to page 6
Deliver more products of value
We are striving to build one of the strongest pipelines in the industry.
We are transforming R&D to ensure that we not only deliver the
current pipeline but are also able to sustain a flow of new products
for years to come.
The plans which underpin this strategic priority:
• Focus on the best science
• Diversify through externalisation
• Re-personalise R&D
• Focus on return on investment
To find out more go to page 8
Simplify the operating model
Manufacturing
Pharma R&D
Vaccines
Consumer
healthcare
GSK is a complex organisation. We recognise that we need to simplify
our operating model further, changing the way we work, removing
unnecessary processes and structures which slow us down and
distract us from our mission.
The plans which underpin this strategic priority:
• Evolve our commercial model
• Re-shape manufacturing
• Streamline our processes
• Reduce working capital
To find out more go to page 106 GSK Annual Report 2008
We are reducing risk by broadening and balancing our
portfolio, diversifying into new product areas that show
potential, while also fully capturing opportunities for our
products across all geographic boundaries.
Specifically, we expect to generate future sales growth
by strengthening our core pharmaceuticals business
and supplementing it with increased investment in
growth areas such as vaccines, biopharmaceuticals and
consumer healthcare.
We are also seeking to unlock the geographic potential of
our businesses, particularly in emerging markets and Japan.
We have made good progress on this priority during 2008,
and we believe there remain many opportunities for GSK
to diversify further.
Grow a diversified
global business
Our plans We are targeting sustained growth in our vaccines portfolio, by
launching new vaccines and working to expand our franchise in
Drive growth in the pharmaceutical business in our Japan and emerging markets.
core markets
Our established strengths in the small molecule pharmaceutical During 2008, Cervarix our new cervical cancer vaccine, was
sectors of larger markets such as the USA, UK, France, Germany, successful in approximately 60% of all tenders, achieving several
Italy and Spain remain central to our business. During 2008, we notable successes including Europe’s largest vaccination programme
received European approval for Tyverb for advanced breast cancer, against cervical cancer, which is taking place in the UK. The year also
Volibris for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension, saw Rotarix, Boostrix (adult indication) and Kinrix receive approval
Avamys a new allergic rhinitis treatment and US approval for from the FDA.
Promacta for the treatment of thrombocytopenia and Entereg for
postoperative ileus. In our US pharmaceuticals business we have Fulfil the potential of emerging markets
initiated a major change programme, refocusing marketing to Emerging markets feature a less-defined distinction between
demonstrate value and introducing new product offerings which pharmaceutical, over-the-counter and retail market structure and
focus on volume opportunities. our ability to operate across this spectrum is a clear competitive
advantage. We have an opportunity to improve this capability and
Deliver our ambitious vaccines forecast further energise our business in fast-growing emerging markets.
Increasingly, healthcare providers recognise the important role that
vaccines play in preventative healthcare. Our proven capability and
strong pipeline, plus the high barriers to entry faced by our competitors,
mean that this is expected to be a source of future growth for GSK.GSK Annual Report 2008 7
In 2008, we entered into an alliance with Aspen Holdings Grow the Consumer Healthcare business
of South Africa. This new relationship gives us priority access Our Consumer Healthcare business continues
to commercialised products from a portfolio of over 1,000 to drive growth through a portfolio of powerful
potential products. brands in three key segments: over-the-counter (OTC)
medicines, Oral healthcare and Nutritional Healthcare.
As the year ended we acquired a BMS portfolio in Egypt and
reached agreement to acquire a BMS portfolio in Pakistan. The brand portfolio, which includes alli for weight loss, Panadol
In early 2009 we also agreed with UCB to acquire its current a range of analgesics, Sensodyne toothpaste and Lucozade is
marketed product portfolio in a range of territories. supported by a strategy focused on innovation, marketing excellence,
geographic expansion and acquisitions.
Expand our business in Japan
Japan is a key market for GSK investment and growth. We have In September 2008 we launched Sensodyne into the Chinese
an extensive product pipeline and expect to launch more than 40 market, our first major consumer launch in the country for a decade.
products in this market over the next five years. We are now preparing to launch alli, the first OTC weight loss
product approved by the European Commission, across Europe.
Major approvals in this market recently were Lamictal for epilepsy
and Adoair for COPD.
To find out more visit us at
www.gsk.com8 GSK Annual Report 2008
We are striving to build one of the strongest pipelines in the Diversify through externalisation
industry. We are transforming R&D to ensure that we not We recognise that we do not have a monopoly on the best science.
only deliver our current pipeline of new pharmaceuticals, Therefore we have proactively expanded collaborations with
vaccines and Consumer Healthcare products, but are also external partners as well as with academia to access innovation and
able to sustain this flow of new products for years to come. strengthen our early pipeline.
As we move towards a more diversified business we will Recent alliances with organisations such as Cellzome and the
concentrate on developing a higher volume of mid-size Harvard Stem Cell Institute and acquisitions such as that of Sirtris and
products for more clearly-defined patient populations. Genelabs are providing us with competitive advantage in important
This will help develop a lower risk portfolio which is not areas of research.
dependent on the performance of one or two large products.
In the last year, we completed or expanded 21 new drug discovery
Positive steps have already been taken, with 30 late-stage alliances adding significant breadth and scale to our R&D activities.
assets currently in our pharmaceuticals and vaccines pipeline. There are currently 70 discovery units working either inside the
Our objective is to sustain this throughput of products over company or externally.
the long-term.
Biopharmaceuticals will play an increasingly important role in our
future portfolio. Offering a worldwide market of approximately
Our plans £40 billion with projected compound annual growth of 18% over
the next five years, biopharmaceuticals are compounds capable of
Focus on the best science being manufactured by living organisms, usually cultured cells.
Around 75% of assets in our pipeline are entirely new
compounds or vaccines, demonstrating our strong drive Currently only 6% of our pipeline comprises biopharmaceuticals,
towards innovation. which is below the industry average. We have significantly expanded
our biopharmaceutical pipeline through in-house discovery, the
During the year we rebalanced our Drug Discovery organisation acquisition of Domantis and by in-licensing late-stage products.
to improve efficiency and focus on the areas of new science that There are currently 10 clinical research programmes underway
we believe are most likely to lead to new medicines. Together including five assets in late-stage development.
with vaccines, GSK’s R&D is now focused on eight therapy areas:
Biopharmaceuticals, Immuno-inflammation, Infectious diseases,
Metabolic pathways, Neuroscience, Oncology, Ophthalmology
and Respiratory.
Deliver more
products of valueGSK Annual Report 2008 9
Re-personalise R&D Focus on return on investment
We want to create an environment where there is no impediment We have adopted a more disciplined approach to how and where we
to our best scientists making the kind of discoveries which will allocate resources within R&D. More than 35% of discovery projects
transform the company’s future by delivering value to patients, have been terminated following our therapy area rebalancing exercise
healthcare providers and shareholders. and reviews by the new Drug Discovery Investment Board.
2008 saw the creation of Discovery Performance Units (DPUs) within As part of the same process, all our 35 Discovery Performance Units
our Centres of Excellence for Drug Discovery (CEDDs). Each DPU is a now have three year funding in place to develop their projects.
compact, fully-empowered, focused and integrated team which has
responsibility for a small part of the pipeline. We realise that reimbursement is the key to long-term financial
performance and we are working hard to bring a health outcome
We have also created new, integrated R&D Units for focus to R&D which will in turn deliver greater value to healthcare
Biopharmaceuticals and Oncology. The R&D centre we established providers. For example, in Europe direct dialogue now exists
in China in 2007 is now 200 people strong and has recruited between payer organisations and our R&D teams to improve our
experienced scientists who are dedicated solely to GSK’s understanding of the perceived benefit and value of new products.
neurodegenerative research.
To find out more visit us at
www.gsk.com
v i t y
ti
c
u
d
o
r P
P e
o
p
l
e
s
t
c
udorP10 GSK Annual Report 2008
GSK is a complex organisation. We recognise that we need to
simplify our operating model further, changing the way we
work, removing unnecessary processes and structures which Manufacturing
slow us down and distract us from our mission.
Our global restructuring programme is a vital catalyst of our
strategy. We believe it will radically change our business
model giving us the capability to support a more diverse, R&D
Pharma
growing business that is also expected to be more profitable
in the long-term.
Vaccines
Consumer
Healthcare
Simplify the
operating model
Our plans We continue to improve the efficiency of our sites, by applying
benchmarked studies and seizing opportunities to do more with less.
Evolve our commercial model In addition, we are simplifying our operating model to clarify roles
We have reorganised so that we now have one single commercial and responsibilities, to improve prioritisation and decision making
support structure for Europe, Emerging Markets and Asia and to introduce simpler, more efficient ways of working.
Pacific/Japan. In the USA, we have radically restructured our
pharmaceuticals business. This includes the transformation of the US Streamline our processes
sales force as well as the decision to designate a single headquarters We are simplifying our organisation to speed up decision-making
for US Pharmaceuticals, located at Research Triangle Park, North and improve alignment to our business priorities. There are
Carolina to reduce complexity and streamline our US operations. many different programmes and initiatives across GSK including
a comprehensive programme to simplify and reduce costs in IT.
Re-shape manufacturing Through an innovative partnership with Microsoft Online we
Manufacturing is a key capability at GSK and we are taking an will produce financial savings, improve productivity and enhance
ambitious approach to re-shaping our operations. We are moving to collaboration internally and with our external partners.
match network capacity more closely to volume and are leveraging
our network of sites and contractors to ensure the flexibility to
sustain growth and adapt to changing business models.GSK Annual Report 2008 11
Manufacturing
R&D
Pharma
Vaccines
Consumer
Healthcare
Simplify the
operating model
We are striving to ensure that cross-business processes and
structures are simpler and more efficient. For example, a number
of reviews are currently underway to simplify our support functions
infrastructure and create a leaner corporate centre.
Reduce working capital
Our current working capital requirement is around £8 billion. In
September 2008, we started a programme which has successfully
delivered cash flow benefits of more than £500 million, which we
are using to invest in our strategic priorities.
To find out more visit us at
www.gsk.com12 GSK Annual Report 2008
Report of the Directors
Financial trends and ratios
2008 Growth* 2007 Growth* 2006
Total results £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m
Turnover 24,352 (3) 7 22,716 2 (2) 23,225
Cost of sales (6,415) 13 21 (5,317) 8 6 (5,010)
Selling, general and administration (7,656) 2 10 (6,954) – (4) (7,257)
Research and development (3,681) 4 11 (3,327) (1) (4) (3,457)
Other operating income 541 475 307
Operating profit 7,141 (20) (6) 7,593 3 (3) 7,808
Profit before taxation 6,659 (24) (11) 7,452 2 (4) 7,799
Profit after taxation for the year 4,712 (25) (11) 5,310 3 (3) 5,498
Profit attributable to minority interests 110 96 109
Profit attributable to shareholders 4,602 5,214 5,389
Basic earnings per share (pence) 88.6p (21) (6) 94.4p 5 (1) 95.5p
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 88.1p 93.7p 94.5p
Results before major restructuring
Turnover 24,352 (3) 7 22,716 2 (2) 23,225
Cost of sales (5,776) 4 11 (5,206) 6 4 (5,010)
Selling, general and administration (7,352) – 8 (6,817) (2) (6) (7,257)
Research and development (3,506) 2 8 (3,237) (3) (6) (3,457)
Other operating income 541 475 307
Operating profit 8,259 (10) 4 7,931 8 2 7,808
Profit before taxation 7,782 (14) – 7,790 6 – 7,799
Profit after taxation for the year 5,551 (14) – 5,571 8 1 5,498
Profit attributable to minority interests 110 96 109
Profit attributable to shareholders 5,441 5,475 5,389
Basic earnings per share (pence) 104.7p (9) 6 99.1p 10 4 95.5p
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 104.1p 98.3p 94.5p
Research and development – total
Pharmaceuticals 3,557 3,215
Consumer Healthcare 124 112
Total 3,681 3,327
Net finance cost cover – total
Net finance costs 530 191
Cover 14 times 40 times
Net finance cost cover is profit before tax plus net finance costs, divided by net finance costs.
Tax rate – total 29.2% 28.7%
Tax rate – before major restructuring 28.7% 28.5%
Borrowings
Net debt 10,173 6,039
Gearing 122% 61%
The gearing ratio is calculated as net debt as a percentage of total equity.
* C ER% represents growth at constant exchange rates. Sterling% or £% represents growth at actual exchange rates. See page 13.
The calculation of results before major restructuring, is described in Note 1 to the financial statements, ‘Presentation of the financial statements’.GSK Annual Report 2008 13
Report of the Directors
Report of the Directors
The Report of the Directors provides users of the financial Directors’ remuneration
statements with a more complete picture of GSK. It supplements This sets out the remuneration policies operated for our
the information in the financial statements with a discussion of Directors and the Corporate Executive Team (CET) members.
other aspects of our activities, our future and the environment There are disclosures on Directors’ remuneration including those
in which we operate. required by The Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations
2002 (the Regulations). The sections cover:
The report is divided into a number of sections. These are:
Letter from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 78
Business review
Remuneration policy 80-87
This discusses our financial and non-financial activities,
Executive Director terms, conditions and remuneration 87
resources development and performance during 2008 and
Non-Executive Director terms, conditions and fees 88
outlines the factors including the trends and the principal risks
Directors and Senior Management remuneration 89
and uncertainties which are likely to affect future development.
Annual remuneration 90
This is sub divided into:
Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration 91
Financial trends and ratios 12 Directors’ interests 92
2008 Performance overview 14 Share options 92
Products, intellectual property and competition 17 Incentive plans 94
Global manufacturing and supply 20 Pensions 97
Research and development 21 Directors and Senior Management 98
Our employees 26 Directors’ interests in contracts 98
Our responsibility 27
Accounting presentation
Regulation 32
This report is prepared in accordance with International Financial
Economy, world market and outlook 33
Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the European Union
Financial review 2008 34
and also with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting
Financial position and resources 43
Standards Board.
Risk factors 50
Financial review 2007 54 Data for market share and market growth rates are GSK estimates based
Corporate governance on the most recent data from independent external sources, and where
appropriate, are valued in Sterling at relevant exchange rates. Figures
This discusses our management structures and governance
quoted for product market share reflect sales by GSK and licensees.
procedures. It includes disclosures on compliance with the Combined
Code on Corporate Governance of the Financial Reporting Council Exchange rates
(Combined Code) and with US laws and regulation. The Group operates in many countries and earns revenues and
Biographies of our Board 60 incurs costs in many currencies. The results of the Group, as
Biographies of our Corporate Executive Team 62 reported in Sterling, are affected by movements in exchange rates
Governance and policy 64 between Sterling and other currencies. Average exchange rates
Dialogue with shareholders 68 prevailing during the period are used to translate the results and
Share capital and control 68 cash flows of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures
Donations to EU political organisations and EU into Sterling. Period end rates are used to translate the net assets
political expenditure 70 of those entities.
Annual General Meeting 71
Currencies
Internal control framework 71
The currencies that most influence the Group’s results remain
Committee reports 73
the US dollar, the euro, the yen and the pound.
The Combined Code 76
US law and regulation 76 In 2008 the pound weakened by 28% against the dollar, to
$1.44/£1 at year-end. In addition, the pound weakened by 24%
against the euro and by 40% against the yen. A new £/€ record
low of 1.02 was set in December.14 GSK Annual Report 2008
Report of the Directors
2008 Performance overview
Key performance indicators Our strategies
Turnover
£bn CER growth % During 2008 we set out three new strategic priorities.
Full details are given on pages 4 to 11.
2008 24.4 (3)
2007 22.7 2
2006 23.2 9 Grow a diversified global business
Broadening and balancing our portfolio,
diversifying into new product areas while also
fully capturing opportunities for our products
Earnings per share before major restructuring*
across all geographic boundaries.
pence CER growth %
2008 104.7 (9)
2007 99.1 10
2006 95.5 19
Total shareholder return
175 Deliver more products of value
150 Transforming R&D to ensure we not only deliver
125 the current pipeline but are also able to sustain
the flow of products for years to come.
100
75
31/12/03 31/12/04 31/12/05 31/12/06 31/12/07 31/12/08
• GlaxoSmithKline Total Return Index
• GlaxoSmithKline Pharma Peers Return Index
• FTSE 100 Total Return Index
Free cash flow+
£m
5,000
4,679 Simplify the operating model
4,000
3,857
3,000 Simplifying our operating model to ensure that
2,000 2,623 it is fit for purpose and able to support our
business in the most efficient and effective way.
1,000
0
2006 2007 2008
* T he calculation of results before major restructuring is described in Note 1 to the
financial statements, ‘Presentation of the financial statements’.
+ Free cash flow is described on page 46.GSK Annual Report 2008 15
Report of the Directors
Our measures Progress in 2008
We are developing a number of measures to track We made good progress during the year, with
our progress against the strategic priorities over the a number of notable successes
medium to long term. These include the following:
• Performance of core pharmaceuticals business, • Excluding genericised products, Avandia and pre-pandemic
including growth in vaccines preparations, our core pharmaceuticals business had turnover of
£16.4 billion and grew by 10%.
• Growth of Consumer Healthcare market share • Consumer Healthcare sales grew 3% to nearly £4 billion.
Continued market share growth in Oral healthcare and
Nutritional healthcare but sales fell in OTC due to lower sales
of smoking cessation products.
• Contribution of Emerging Markets to our overall • Sales in Emerging Markets grew 12% to £2.3 billion.
sales and growth Transactions with Aspen and BMS executed to build broader
and more geographically diverse portfolio.
• Expansion of Japanese business • Major recent approvals in Japan for Lamictal for epilepsy and
Adoair for COPD. Around 40 new product opportunities in
development. Sales in Japan fell by 3% as a result of price cuts
mandated by government.
• Contribution to sales of new products • New product launches in the last two years contributed
sales of almost £0.8 billion in 2008.
• Number of reimbursable product approvals and filings • 12 key product launches, including Tyverb, Volibris and
Avamys in Europe and Treximet, Entereg, Promacta, Kinrix
and Rotarix in the USA. Secured 17% of all FDA approvals
for new chemical entities and vaccines.
• Sustaining late-stage pipeline of around 30 assets • Late stage pipeline maintained at around 30 assets.
Five new assets moved into phase III development during
2008, including darapladib for atherosclerosis and Syncria
for type 2 diabetes.
• Enhanced productivity and increased externalisation for • Created 35 Discovery Performance Units, small teams
Drug Discovery each with three-year funding in place. Entered or expanded
21 new drug discovery alliances.
• Delivery of major restructuring programme • Annual cost savings of £390 million already achieved.
Programme expanded to deliver annual savings of
£1.7 billion by 2011.
• Evolution of our commercial model • Rescaled and redeployed US pharmaceuticals sales force.
Sales forces expanded in Emerging Markets.
• Reshaping of Global Manufacturing and Supply • Manufacturing network rationalisation continuing with
multiple site exits ongoing.
• Reduction in working capital • Delivered more than £500 million of cash flow benefits
from the working capital reduction programme which
started in September 2008.16 GSK Annual Report 2008
Report of the Directors
History and development of the company Business segments
GlaxoSmithKline plc is a public limited company incorporated on GSK operates in two industry segments:
6th December 1999 under English law. Its shares are listed on the
• Pharmaceuticals (prescription pharmaceuticals and vaccines)
London Stock Exchange and the New York Stock Exchange.
• Consumer Healthcare (OTC medicines, Oral healthcare and
On 27th December 2000 the company acquired Glaxo Wellcome plc
Nutritional healthcare).
and SmithKline Beecham plc, both English public limited companies,
by way of a scheme of arrange ment for the merger of the two
Results before major restructuring
companies. GSK and its subsidiary and associated undertakings
In October 2007, the Board approved the implementation of a
constitute a major global healthcare group engaged in the creation,
detailed formal plan for, and GSK announced, a significant new
discovery, development, manufacture and marketing of pharma-
Operational Excellence restructuring programme. A second formal
ceutical and consumer health-related products.
plan, representing a significant expansion of the Operational
GSK has its corporate head office in London and has its US Excellence programme, was approved by the Board and announced
headquarters in Research Triangle Park, with operations in in February 2009. With an estimated total cost of approximately £3.6
some 114 countries, and products sold in over 150 countries. billion, the expanded programme is expected to deliver annual pre-tax
savings of approximately £1.7 billion by the time it is substantially
Annual Report and Summary
complete in 2011. GSK presents the restructuring costs incurred
This report is the Annual Report of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the solely as a direct result of the Operational Excellence programme in a
year ended 31st December 2008, prepared in accordance with separate column in the income statement titled ‘Major restructuring’.
United Kingdom requirements. It was approved by the Board of In addition to the restructuring costs of the Operational Excellence
Directors on 3rd March 2009 and published on 4th March 2009. programme, the major restructuring column in the income statement
A summary of the year, intended for the shareholder not needing includes restructuring costs incurred solely as a direct result of
the full detail of the Annual Report, is produced as a separate any restructuring programmes that follow, and relate to, material
document and issued to all shareholders. The summary does acquisitions where the operations of the acquired business overlap
not constitute a set of summary financial statements as defined extensively with GSK’s existing operations. The $1.65 billion (£814
by section 251 of the Companies Act 1985. The Annual Report million) acquisition of Reliant Pharmaceuticals in December 2007 is
is issued to shareholders who have elected to receive it. Both the only acquisition since October 2007 that meets these criteria.
documents are available on GSK’s website. The Group’s results before the costs of the Operational Excellence
In this Report ‘GlaxoSmithKline’, the ‘Group’ or ‘GSK’ means programme and acquisition-related restructuring programmes
GlaxoSmithKline plc and its subsidiary undertakings; the ‘company’ meeting the criteria described above are described as ‘Results
means Glaxo SmithKline plc; ‘GlaxoSmithKline share’ means an before major restructuring’. This presentation, which GSK intends
Ordinary Share of GlaxoSmithKline plc of 25p; American Depositary to apply consistently to future major restructuring programmes
Shares (ADS) each represents two GlaxoSmithKline shares. that have a material impact on GSK’s operating results and on
the manner in which GSK’s business is conducted, has been
Brand names adopted to show clearly the Group’s results both before and
Brand names appearing in italics throughout this report are trademarks after the costs of these restructuring programmes. Management
either owned by and/or licensed to GlaxoSmithKline or associated believes that this presentation assists shareholders in gaining a
companies, with the exception of Baycol and Levitra, trademarks of clearer understanding of the Group’s financial performance and in
Bayer, Boniva/Bonviva, a trademark of Roche, Citrucel, a trademark making projections of future financial performance, as results that
of Merrell Pharmaceuticals, Entereg, a trademark of Adolor include such costs, by virtue of their size and nature, have limited
Corporation in the USA, Volibris, a trademark of Gilead, NicoDerm, a comparative value. This presentation is also consistent with the
trademark of Sanofi-Aventis, Pfizer Canada, Elan, Novartis, Merrell or way management assesses the Group’s financial performance.
GlaxoSmithKline, and Vesicare, a trademark of Astellas Pharmaceuticals CER growth
in many countries and of Yamanouchi Pharmaceuticals in certain
In order to illustrate underlying performance, it is the Group’s
countries, all of which are used in certain countries under licence by the
practice to discuss its results in terms of constant exchange rate
Group.
(CER) growth. This represents growth calculated as if the exchange
rates used to determine the results of overseas companies in
Sterling had remained unchanged from those used in the previous
year. CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates. £%
represents growth at actual exchange rates.
All commentaries in this Report are presented in terms of CER
unless otherwise stated.GSK Annual Report 2008 17
Report of the Directors
Products, intellectual property and competition
Pharmaceutical products Within the pharmaceutical industry, the introduction of new
products and processes by our competitors may affect pricing or
GSK’s principal pharmaceutical products are currently directed to eight
result in changing patterns of product use. There is no assurance
main therapeutic areas. A description of the products is on pages 18
that products will not become outmoded, notwithstanding patent
to 19 and an analysis of sales by therapeutic area, is on page 35.
or trademark protection. In addition, increased government
Competition and other pressures for physicians and patients to use generic
pharmaceuticals, rather than brand-name medicines, may increase
Our principal pharmaceutical competitors range from small to
competition for products that are no longer protected by patent.
large pharmaceutical companies often with substantial resources.
Some of these companies are:
Intellectual property
• Abbott Laboratories Intellectual property is a key business asset for our company,
• Amgen and the effective legal protection of our intellectual property (via
• AstraZeneca patents, trademarks, registered designs, copyrights and domain
name registrations) is critical in ensuring a reasonable return on
• Bristol-Myers Squibb
investment in R&D.
• Eli Lilly
Patents
• Johnson & Johnson
• Merck It is our policy to try to obtain patents on commercially important,
protectable inventions discovered or developed through our R&D
• Novartis
activities. Patent protection for new active ingredients is available in
• Pfizer
most major markets and patents can also be obtained for new drug
• Roche Holdings formulations, manufacturing processes, medical uses and devices
• Sanofi-Aventis for administering products. Although we may obtain patents for
our products, this does not prevent them from being challenged
• Schering-Plough
before they expire. Further, the grant of a patent does not provide
• Wyeth
assurance that the issued patent will be held valid and enforceable
Pharmaceuticals may be subject to competition from other by a court. Significant litigation concerning such challenges
products during the period of patent protection and, once is summarised in Note 44 to the financial statements, ‘Legal
off patent, from generic versions. The manufacturers of proceedings’. If a court determines that a patent we hold is invalid,
generic products typically do not bear significant research and non infringed or unenforceable, it will not protect the market from
development or education and marketing development costs third party entry prior to patent expiry.
and consequently are able to offer their products at considerably
The life of a patent in most countries is 20 years from the filing date.
lower prices than the branded competitors. As a research and
Patents protecting new active ingredients are generally applied for
development based company we will normally seek to achieve a
early in the development process. The long development time for
sufficiently high profit margin and sales volume during the period
pharmaceutical products may result in a substantial amount of this
of patent protection to repay the original investment, which is
patent life being used up before launch. In some markets (including
generally substantial, and to generate profits and fund research
the USA and in Europe) it is possible to have some of this lost time
for the future. Competition from generic products generally occurs
restored and this leads to variations in the amount of patent life
as patents in major markets expire. Increasingly patent challenges
actually available for each product we market. Further, certain
are made prior to patent expiry, claiming that the innovator patent
countries provide a period of data or market exclusivity that prevents
is not valid and/or that it is not infringed by the generic product.
a third party company from relying on our clinical trial data to enter
For details of some of the challenges to our products see legal
the market with its copy for the period of exclusivity.
proceedings on pages 172 to 180. Following the loss of patent
protection, generic products rapidly capture a large share of the The patent expiry dates for our significant products are in the
market, particularly in the USA. following table. Dates provided are for expiry of patents in the
USA and major European markets on the active ingredient, unless
We believe that remaining competitive is dependent upon the
otherwise indicated, and include extensions of patent term (including
discovery and development of new products, together with
for paediatric use in the USA) where available.
effective marketing of existing products.18 GSK Annual Report 2008
Report of the Directors
Products, intellectual property and competition
continued
Product Compounds Indication Major Patent expiry dates
competitor brands USA EU
Respiratory
Seretide/Advair salmeterol xinafoate / asthma/COPD Singulair, Symbicort, 2010 20132
fluticasone propionate Spiriva, Asmanex, Pulmicort (combination) (combination)
Flixotide/Flovent fluticasone propionate asthma/COPD Qvar, Singulair expired expired
Serevent salmeterol xinafoate asthma/COPD Foradil, Spiriva expired expired
Veramyst fluticasone furoate rhinitis Nasacort 2021 2023
Flixonase/Flonase fluticasone propionate rhinitis Nasonex, Rhinocort expired expired
Anti-virals 2016 2019
Epzicom/Kivexa lamivudine and abacavir HIV/AIDS Truvada, Atripla (combination) (combination)
Combivir lamivudine and zidovudine HIV/AIDS Truvada, Atripla 2012 2013
(combination) (combination)
Trizivir lamivudine, zidovudine HIV/AIDS Truvada, Atripla 2016 2016
and abacavir (combination) (combination)
Agenerase amprenavir HIV/AIDS Prezista, Kaletra, Reyataz 2013 2014
Lexiva fosamprenavir HIV/AIDS Prezista, Kaletra, Reyataz 2017 2019
Epivir lamivudine HIV/AIDS Truvada, Atripla 2010 2011
Ziagen abacavir HIV/AIDS Truvada, Atripla 2012 2014
Valtrex valaciclovir genital herpes, coldsores, Famvir 2009 2009
shingles
Zeffix lamivudine chronic hepatitis B Hepsera 2010 2011
Relenza zanamivir influenza Tamiflu 2013 2014
Central nervous system
Lamictal lamotrigine epilepsy, bipolar disorder Keppra, Dilantin expired expired
Imigran/Imitrex sumatriptan migraine Zomig, Maxalt, Relpax expired expired
Seroxat/Paxil paroxetine depression, various Effexor, Cymbalta, expired expired
anxiety disorders Lexapro
Wellbutrin SR bupropion depression Effexor, Cymbalta, expired 2009
Lexapro
Requip ropinirole Parkinson’s disease, Mirapex expired 2011
restless legs syndrome (use in treating
Parkinson’s
disease)
Treximet sumatriptan and naproxen migraine Zomig, Maxalt, Relpax 2017 NA
(combination
and use)
Cardiovascular and urogenital
Avodart dutasteride benign prostatic hyperplasia Proscar, Flomax, finasteride 2015 2017
Lovaza formulation of omega-4 acid very high triglycerides Tricor 2017
ethyl esters (Formulation)
Coreg CR carvedilol phosphate mild-to-severe heart failure, Toprol XL 20231 NA
hypertension, left ventricular
dysfunction post MI
Fraxiparine nadroparin deep vein thrombosis, Lovenox expired expired
pulmonary embolism
Arixtra fondaparinux deep vein thrombosis, Lovenox, Fragmin expired expired
pulmonary embolism Innohep
Vesicare solifenacin overactive bladder Detrol, Detrol LA, Enablex, 2018 NA
Sanctura
1 Generic competition possible in 2010 as a result of patent settlement
2 The UK patent has been revoked by the UK courtsGSK Annual Report 2008 19
Report of the Directors
Products, intellectual property and competition
continued
Product Compounds Indication Major Patent expiry dates
competitor brands USA EU
Metabolic
Avandia rosiglitazone maleate type 2 diabetes Actos, Januvia 2012 2013
Avandamet rosiglitazone maleate and type 2 diabetes Competact, Janumet 2012 2013
metformin HCI Actoplus met
Bonviva/Boniva ibandronate osteoporosis Actonel, Fosamax 2012 2011
Anti-bacterials
Augmentin amoxicillin/clavulanate common infections expired expired
potassium
Altabax retapamulin skin infections 2021 2022
Oncology and emesis
Hycamtin topotecan ovarian cancer, small cell Doxil, Gemzar 2010 2011
lung cancer
Zofran ondansetron nausea and vomiting Kytril, Emend, Aloxi expired expired
from cancer
Tykerb lapatanib advanced and metastatic Herceptin 2020 2023
breast cancer in HER2
positive patients
Vaccines
Infanrix/Pediarix diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, Pentavac, Pentaxim, 2017 2016
polio, hepatitis B (HepB), polio, hepatitis B (HepB), Pediacel, Pentacel
inactivated antigens
Fluarix split inactivated influenza virus seasonal influenza Vaxigrip, Mutagrip, Fluzone, none none
subtypes A and type B antigens Influvac, Aggripal, Fluad
FluLaval split inactivated influenza virus seasonal influenza Vaxigrip, Mutagrip, Fluzone, none none
subtypes A and type B antigens Influvac, Aggripal, Fluad
Cervarix HPV 16 & 18 virus like particles human papilloma virus Gardasil, Silgard 2026 2019
(VLPs), AS04 adjuvant (MPL + type 16 & 18
aluminium hydroxide)
Rotarix live attenuated rotavirus rotavirus gastroenteritis Rotateq 2022 2020
strain GIP(8)
Trademarks
All of GSK’s commercial products are protected by registered trademarks in major markets. There may be local variations, for example,
in the USA the trademark Advair covers the same product sold in the EU as Seretide. Trademark protection may generally be extended as
long as the trademark is used by renewing it when necessary. GSK’s trademarks are important for maintaining the brand identity of its
products. GSK enforces its trademark rights to prevent infringements.
Consumer Healthcare products
Our portfolio comprises three main categories: OTC medicines, Oral healthcare and Nutritional healthcare.
Sales of key Consumer Healthcare products in 2008 are shown on page 37.
Our leading Consumer Healthcare products include the following:
OTC medicines
• alli, the first licenced weight loss medicine to be available without a prescription, launched in the USA in 2007 and has now won
approval to launch across Europe in 2009
• Panadol, the global paracetamol/acetaminophen analgesic
• Smoking control products NicoDerm, NiQuitin CQ, Nicabate and in the USA, Nicorette
• Other brands include Breathe Right nasal strips, Tums, Citrucel, Contac and FiberChoice.20 GSK Annual Report 2008
Report of the Directors
Products, intellectual property and competition
continued
Oral healthcare Global manufacturing and supply (GMS)
• Aquafresh, a range of toothpastes, toothbrushes More than 31,000 people work in GMS across our network of
and mouthwashes 78 sites in 37 countries. GMS supports the commercial ambition
• Sensodyne, a range of toothpastes and toothbrushes, including of GSK by delivering quality medicines and consumer products to
Pronamel to protect from acid erosion patients and customers around the world.
• Biotene, acquired late in 2008 and the leading treatment for The scale of manufacturing in GSK is staggering, with the
dry mouth manufacture of over 4 billion packs per year in 28,000 different
presentations (including tablets, creams/ointments, inhalers,
• Polident, PoliGrip and Corega, the denture care cleansers and
injections, liquids and steriles), which are then supplied to over
adhesives
150 markets. Over £3.6 billion is spent on production each year.
• Other brands include Odol, Macleans and Dr Best.
GMS operates a procurement operation on behalf of the Group.
Nutritional healthcare We spend over £2 billion annually with external suppliers,
purchasing active ingredients, chemical intermediates, packaging
• Lucozade, a range of energy and sports drinks
components and part-finished and finished products.
• Horlicks, a range of milk-based malted food and chocolate drinks
During 2008, as our commercial customers sought every
• Ribena, a blackcurrant juice-based drink.
opportunity to grow their business, we focused on the cost-
competitive supply of quality product to meet their ambition. We
Consumer Healthcare competition
began adapting to the emerging commercial model by leveraging
GSK holds leading global positions in all its key consumer product
our network of sites and contractors to give us built-in flexibility
areas. Worldwide it is the third largest in Oral healthcare and
to sustain future growth and adapt to emerging commercial
in OTC medicines. In Nutritional healthcare it holds the leading
business models. In an increasingly rigorous external regulatory
position in the UK, India and Ireland.
environment, we have continued to leverage technology in
The environment in which the Consumer Healthcare business support of process understanding, control, and capability.
operates has become ever more challenging:
Our Primary supply sites supply high quality, competitively priced
• consumers are demanding better quality, better value and bulk actives and focus on improvements in primary technologies
improved performance and processes. Our new product and global supply sites work closely
with R&D’s development teams to ensure that the right technical
• retailers have consolidated and globalised which has
competencies are in place to support rapid and successful new product
strengthened their negotiation power
introduction. These sites serve as the focal point for developing and
• cycle times for innovation have reduced. introducing new secondary manufacturing technologies. The sites in our
Regional Pharma supply division focus on reducing costs, allowing GSK
The main competitors include the major international companies
to compete more effectively in all its markets. Our Consumer Healthcare
Colgate-Palmolive, Johnson & Johnson, Procter & Gamble, Unilever
sites deliver high-quality, competitively priced products and support
and Wyeth. In addition, there are many other smaller companies
rapid new product introduction in a highly innovative and competitive
that compete with GSK in certain markets.
business. New technologies have become a fundamental platform for
The major competitor products in OTC medicines are: driving innovation, lowering costs, and providing flexibility in operations.
• in the USA: Metamucil (laxative), Pepcid (indigestion) and private We are embedding new ways of working that are simplifying
label smoking control products the business and achieving greater efficiencies. It is our focus on
customer service, including support for new product launches, our
• in the UK: Lemsip (cold remedy), Nurofen and Anadin
strong compliance culture, our commitment to health, safety and
(analgesics), and Nicorette and Nicotinell (smoking control
the environment, and our commitment to developing our people
treatments).
that have delivered strong results for GSK even as the external
In Oral healthcare the major competitors are Colgate-Palmolive’s environment has become more demanding.
Colgate and Procter & Gamble’s Crest.
Vaccine manufacturing is particularly complex as it requires the use
In Nutritional healthcare the major competitors to Horlicks of innovative technologies and living micro-organisms. Sophisticated
are Ovaltine and Milo malted food and chocolate drinks. The quality assurance and quality control procedures are in place to
competitors to Ribena are primarily local fruit juice products, ensure the vaccine’s quality and safety. This includes animal use
while Lucozade competes with other energy drinks. according to health authorities’ requirements. Due to their biological
nature, individual health authorities may subject vaccines to a
second control to guarantee the highest quality standards.GSK Annual Report 2008 21
Report of the Directors
Research and development
Research and development – Pharmaceuticals • We continue to identify compounds from other companies
that would enhance the portfolio and to create innovative
GSK R&D is striving to build one of the strongest pipelines of
collaborations to ensure that we are seen as a partner of choice
potential new medicines in the industry. In 2008, Pharmaceutical
for large and small companies. Our internal R&D expertise allows
R&D was actively managing over 150 projects in human clinical
us to have a strong position in business development, and makes
trials across the globe. Delivering this pipeline to patients safely
us able to complement our internal pipeline with acquisitions,
and efficiently is the number one goal.
in-licensing, co-marketing/co-promotion deals, or future
Discovering potential medicines options collaborations.
Late Stage
• The early research identifies the biological targets interfering
Project Team MDC Development
with a particular disease, and creates small molecules or
biopharmaceuticals that interact with these disease targets. Drug
Discovery (DD) is formed of the Centres of Excellence for Drug
Discovery (CEDDs), groups focused around defined Therapy Areas.
• A Therapy Area Review exercise conducted in 2007 and early 2008
helped R&D refocus its discovery effort around well identified
promising areas of science that are more likely to deliver products R&D
Unit
of value. R&D invested in growth areas such as ophthalmology
and ceased less promising areas of science such as urology. The
focus of Drug Discovery at GSK is summarised in the table below.
• F ollowing this Therapy Area Review, a major transformation of Drug
Discovery was conducted in our company in 2008 to create an even
more nimble, creative, and entrepreneurial environment, building
Discovery CEDD Drug
on the success of the existing CEDD model. Each CEDD created
Performance Discovery
Discovery Performance Units (DPU), gathering small integrated and Unit
empowered groups of scientists (size ranging from 5 to 70 people),
Delivering these medicines to patients
focusing on a particular disease or pathway, taking the CEDD model
one step further. The number of DPUs in each CEDD varies according • Progression into late-stage development consists of optimising
to the science, and some standalone DPUs were created to explore both the physical product properties of the medicine, (the
new therapy areas (such as Ophthalmology), or new ways of working. chemical steps and formulation required to manufacture and
deliver it), as well as the much larger scale studies in humans
• Each of the CEDDs and standalone DPUs submits a 3-year business
confirming efficacy and safety. The combination of the results of
plan with overall budget and clearly defined objectives. The CEDDs
these two steps into a regulatory file for submission to regulatory
are accountable for the production of quality proofs of concept,
agencies and approval for patient use is the responsibility of the
and are tackling this challenge through internal discovery as well
regulatory team.
as extensive collaborations with academia and biotech companies.
• Medicines Development is the collection of four therapeutically
Centres of Excellence for Drug Discovery (CEDD) aligned Medicine Development Centres (MDCs): Cardiovascular
and Metabolic (CVM), Infectious Diseases (ID), Neurosciences
All include several Discovery Performance Units (DPU) and Respiratory. Each MDC has ultimate accountability for
• Immuno-Inflammation developing experimental drugs into regulatory-approved
• Infectious Diseases medicines for patients. The MDCs are responsible for creating
• Metabolic Pathways value through the execution of full product development plans
• Neurosciences and ensuring strong partnerships with the rest of R&D and GSK,
• Respiratory in particular the CEDDs, preclinical development, the regulatory
• Centre of Excellence for External Drug Discovery (CEEDD) and commercial groups, and manufacturing.
Additional standalone Discovery Performance Units (DPU) • In 2008, emphasis was put on the creation of strongly
• Macrolides empowered project teams, with the creation of Medicine
• Opthiris (focusing on ophthalmology) Development Leader roles for all the key late stage assets.
• Virtual PoC The Centre for Clinical Study Excellence was also created as a
• Sirtris professional organisation providing study operations capabilities
• Academic DPU which, in partnership with the MDCs and the CEDDs, delivers
GSK clinical trials.22 GSK Annual Report 2008
Report of the Directors
Research and development
continued
Major opportunity in oncology – creation of an R&D employees
Oncology R&D unit in 2008 R&D employs staff with a wide variety of educational backgrounds,
In 2008, we created an integrated Oncology unit, spanning from with biologists, chemists, clinical scientists and physicians being
drug target identification through to late stage development. Its some of the more prominent qualifications. Given the number of
strong pipeline of cancer medicines, as well as unique aspects of structural changes in 2008, we are ensuring that staff retention is
oncology medicines development, were behind the creation of the a top priority, through personal development programmes, staff
Oncology R&D unit. Oncology is an important investment area for engagement strategies and active talent management.
GSK and 2008 has seen its late stage pipeline flourish.
Diseases of the developing world
Future growth in biopharmaceuticals – creation of a Continued investment in research into diseases of the developing
Biopharm R&D unit in 2008 world is essential if there is to be a long-term improvement in
With the goal of becoming a leader in biopharmaceuticals, we the health of people who live in these regions. As part of our
created the Biopharm R&D unit in 2008. Biopharmaceuticals are response to this challenge, we operate a drug discovery unit based
large molecules such as antibodies, proteins or peptides which are at Tres Cantos (Spain), which focuses on malaria and tuberculosis.
manufactured using living cells. Because they are very different Additional R&D sites in the USA and the UK are focused on
to small molecules (which are made by chemical synthesis), the the development of new medicines to treat HIV/AIDS and drug
R&D process requires quite specific treatment from a discovery, resistant bacteria, while vaccine research is conducted in
development and manufacturing perspective. The Biopharm R&D Rixensart (Belgium).
unit brings all of these functions together in a single cohesive
Through these R&D efforts, we are addressing the prevention and
group with discovery, biopharmaceutical process development and
treatment of all three of the World Health Organization’s (WHO)
late stage development forming part of one organisation.
priority infectious diseases.
Investment in global R&D: growth of R&D China
Public/Private Partnerships (PPPs) remain essential to fund research
In line with our aim to access the best science and to ensure GSK where there is no commercially viable market for a potential
is a truly global company, we announced in 2007 the creation of product. We remain a leader in working in PPPs and continue to
R&D China. In 2008, this group grew to 200 employees focusing collaborate closely with many governments, academic centres,
on neurodegeneration and has created three DPUs during the year. United Nations’ agencies and other global funding bodies in this
R&D China is currently focusing on discovery, but as the unit grows area, to maximise expertise and knowledge.
and the pipeline matures, it will expand its capabilities to be a fully
integrated R&D centre.
Governance
Key projects reaching significant milestones are reviewed each
month by the Product Management Board (PMB), which is
responsible for determining if a medicine has met criteria for
passing into the next phase of development.
GSK’s Chief Medical Officer, working with the Global Safety
Board, is ultimately accountable for oversight of all major decisions
regarding patient safety. Our Global Safety Board is responsible
internally for approving pivotal studies and investigating any
issues related to patient safety arising during the development
programme. Information from GSK clinical trials is widely and
easily available at the Clinical Trial Register on GSK’s website.
The oversight of strategic issues, organisation choices and
budget management across R&D is owned by RADEX, the R&D
Executive team.GSK Annual Report 2008 23
Report of the Directors
Research and development
continued
Vaccines R&D Animals and research
GSK is active in the fields of vaccine research, development and For ethical, regulatory and scientific reasons, research using
production and has a portfolio of over 30 vaccines approved animals remains a small but vital part of research and development
for marketing. We have over 1,600 scientists devoted to of new medicines and vaccines. We only use animals where there
discovering innovative vaccines that contribute to the health and is no alternative and only in the numbers required for each test.
well-being of people of all generations around the world. The We strive to exceed regulatory standards in the care and use of the
discovery and development of a new vaccine is a complex process animals used and undertake internal and external review to assure
requiring long-term investment and with more than 20 vaccines these standards.
in clinical development, we have one of the strongest vaccine
The vast majority of the experimental methods do not use animals.
pipelines in the industry. Although vaccines have traditionally
We are actively engaged in research to develop and validate more
been used to ward off illness, GSK’s vaccine division is developing
tests that either avoid the use of animals in research or reduce the
therapeutic immunotherapeutics aimed at educating the patient’s
numbers needed. When animals are used in research, unnecessary
immune system to identify and attack cancer cells in a highly
pain or suffering is scrupulously avoided.
specific manner.
We decided not to initiate funding of studies using great apes
Vaccine discovery involves many collaborations with academia
after 28th October 2008. This is a voluntary decision and provides
and the biotech industry to identify new vaccine antigens which
a tangible demonstration of our commitment to the 3Rs of
are then expressed in yeast, bacteria or mammalian cells and
animal research, which advocates the replacement and reduction
purified to a very high level. This is followed by formulation of
of animals in research and refining of experiments to improve
the clinical lots of the vaccine. This may involve mixing antigens
animal welfare.
with selected GSK novel proprietary adjuvant systems, which are
combinations of selected adjuvants designed to elicit the most We understand that use of animals for research purposes
appropriate immune response to a specific antigen. The right commands a high level of public interest. Our Public Policy Position
combination of antigen and adjuvant system can help the body ‘The care and ethical use of animals in research’, and further
mobilise the most effective immunological pathway, which is information and reports, are available on our website.
designed to provide maximum protection against specific diseases
Research and development –
in targeted populations.
Consumer Healthcare
Once formulated, the candidate vaccine is evaluated from a safety
The continuous creation and development of innovative
and efficacy perspective through the different phases of preclinical
products keeps our brands relevant, vibrant and valuable. Our
testing, then through the clinical trials involving healthy individuals.
portfolio spans three major categories: over-the-counter (OTC)
These will range from safety analysis in a small group of volunteers
medicines, Oral healthcare and Nutritional healthcare. For our
in phase I, dose adjustment and proof of concept in phase II to
major brands, dedicated R&D teams partner with and work
large-scale safety and efficacy analysis in phase III. The results
alongside their commercial brand team colleagues in office-free
obtained during clinical trials and data regarding the development
hub environments that foster collaboration and fast decision-
of a quality and large-scale production process and facilities are
making. Hubs have quickly become a preferred way of working at
then combined into a regulatory file which is submitted
our Innovation Centres in Weybridge, UK and Parsippany, USA.
to the authorities in the countries where the vaccine will be
made available.
After launch, post marketing studies of considerable size are
set up to assess vaccination programmes and to monitor
vaccine safety.24 GSK Annual Report 2008
Report of the Directors
Research and development
continued
Therapeutic area Compound
We have a full and diverse product development pipeline. Biopharmaceuticals belimumab1 Systematic lupus erythematosus
Our key late stage projects are highlighted here, comprising both otelixizumab1 Type 1 diabetes
new chemical entities and new combinations and formulations of Syncria† Type 2 diabetes
existing assets. The most advanced status is shown and includes ofatumumab1 1. Follicular lymphoma
2008 approvals in at least one major market. 2. Rheumatoid arthritis
3. Refractory chronic lymphocytic leukaemia
Key:
Bosatria (mepolizumab) Hypereosinophilic syndrome
Phase III 3
Large comparative study (compound versus placebo and/or Cardiovascular & Metabolic Avandamet XR Type 2 diabetes – extended release
established treatment) in patients to establish clinical benefit Avandia + simvastatin Type 2 diabetes
and safety. darapladib1 Atherosclerosis
Arixtra Treatment of acute coronary syndrome
Filed F
Following successful Phase III trials, we file the product for approval
Neurosciences almorexant1 Insomnia
by the regulatory authorities.
retigabine1 Epilepsy – partial seizures
Approval A rosiglitazone XR Alzheimer’s disease
Only when approval is granted can we begin to market the Lamictal XR Epilepsy – partial seizures, once-daily
medicine or vaccine. Lunivia1 Insomnia
Solzira (1838262)1 Restless legs syndrome
Our full pipeline is on pages 199 to 202 and on our website
www.gsk.com
Oncology Avodart Reduction in the risk of prostate cancer
. elesclomol1 2 Metastatic melanoma
pazopanib + Tyverb/Tykerb Inflammatory breast cancer
Tyverb/Tykerb 1. Breast cancer, adjuvant therapy
2. Breast cancer, first line therapy
3. Gastric cancer
4. Head & neck squamous cell carcinoma (resectable disease)
pazopanib 1. Sarcoma
2. Renal cell cancer
Duodart (Avodart + alpha blocker) Benign prostatic hyperplasia - fixed dose combination
Zunrisa/Rezonic Chemotherapy-induced & postoperative nausea & vomiting
Revolade/Promacta† 1. Chronic liver disease induced thrombocytopaenia
2. Hepatitis C induced thrombocytopaenia
3. Idiopathic thrombocytopaenic purpura
Vaccines Hib-MenCY-TT Neisseria meningitis groups C & Y disease & Haemophilus influenzae type b disease prophylaxis
MAGE-A3 ASCI 1. Treatment of non-small cell lung cancer
2. Treatment of melanoma
MenACWY-TT Neisseria meningitis groups A, C, W & Y disease prophylaxis
New generation flu vaccine Seasonal influenza prophylaxis for the elderly
Simplirix Genital herpes prophylaxis
Synflorix Streptococcus pneumoniae disease prophylaxis in infants and children
Cervarix1 Human papilloma virus infection prophylaxis
Prepandrix (Flu pre-pandemic)1 Pre-pandemic influenza prophylaxis
1 In-licence or other alliance relationship with third party.
2 See Note 40 to the financial statements, ‘Post balance sheet events’GSK Annual Report 2008 25
Report of the Directors
Research and development
continued
Indication
Phase 3FilA edpproved
Biopharmaceuticals belimumab1 Systematic lupus erythematosus 3
otelixizumab1 Type 1 diabetes 3
Syncria† Type 2 diabetes 3
ofatumumab1 1. Follicular lymphoma 3
2. Rheumatoid arthritis 3
3. Refractory chronic lymphocytic leukaemia F
Bosatria (mepolizumab) Hypereosinophilic syndrome F
Cardiovascular & Metabolic Avandamet XR Type 2 diabetes – extended release 3
Avandia + simvastatin Type 2 diabetes 3
darapladib1 Atherosclerosis 3
Arixtra Treatment of acute coronary syndrome A
Neurosciences almorexant1 Insomnia 3
retigabine1 Epilepsy – partial seizures 3
rosiglitazone XR Alzheimer’s disease 3
Lamictal XR Epilepsy – partial seizures, once-daily F
Lunivia1 Insomnia F
Solzira (1838262)1 Restless legs syndrome F
Oncology Avodart Reduction in the risk of prostate cancer 3
elesclomol1 2 Metastatic melanoma 3
pazopanib + Tyverb/Tykerb Inflammatory breast cancer 3
Tyverb/Tykerb 1. Breast cancer, adjuvant therapy 3
2. Breast cancer, first line therapy 3
3. Gastric cancer 3
4. Head & neck squamous cell carcinoma (resectable disease) 3
pazopanib 1. Sarcoma 3
2. Renal cell cancer F
Duodart (Avodart + alpha blocker) Benign prostatic hyperplasia - fixed dose combination F
Zunrisa/Rezonic Chemotherapy-induced & postoperative nausea & vomiting F
Revolade/Promacta† 1. Chronic liver disease induced thrombocytopaenia 3
2. Hepatitis C induced thrombocytopaenia 3
3. Idiopathic thrombocytopaenic purpura A
Vaccines Hib-MenCY-TT Neisseria meningitis groups C & Y disease & Haemophilus influenzae type b disease prophylaxis 3
MAGE-A3 ASCI 1. Treatment of non-small cell lung cancer 3
2. Treatment of melanoma 3
MenACWY-TT Neisseria meningitis groups A, C, W & Y disease prophylaxis 3
New generation flu vaccine Seasonal influenza prophylaxis for the elderly 3
Simplirix Genital herpes prophylaxis 3
Synflorix Streptococcus pneumoniae disease prophylaxis in infants and children F
Cervarix1 Human papilloma virus infection prophylaxis A
Prepandrix (Flu pre-pandemic)1 Pre-pandemic influenza prophylaxis A26 GSK Annual Report 2008
Report of the Directors
Our employees
Recruitment, talent management and • Face to face communications activities – town hall presentations
leadership development led by senior executives, lunches with CET and senior executives.
In 2008, as with every year, recruiting, retaining and developing To ensure our communications activities are effective and to
our employees was critical to enhancing and sustaining our enable us to continue to improve, there are a number of
performance and reputation. Some areas of focus: evaluation processes. Feedback and monitoring mechanisms are
part of every major communication event, and Q&A and feedback
• Our recruiters proactively identify, engage and attract top external
facilities are a core feature of our web communications channels.
talent and assess their potential fit with the organisation. This
Other broader processes include a Global Leadership Survey
takes places across all functions, businesses and geographical
every two to three years. The survey asks over 10,000 managers
areas. Our assessment process is aligned to a core set of
worldwide to comment on critical issues such as culture and
competencies, of which ethics and integrity are central.
confidence in GSK’s future.
• Our streamlined annual performance and development planning
As our business evolves, there will be changes that affect
(PDP) process means employees have business-aligned objectives
employees and we remain committed to consulting on these
and behavioural goals. With regular reviews, the progress is
changes via a number of internal consultation forums and
ongoing, culminating with an end-of-year review.
discussions with the European Employee Consultation Forum and
• We have an annual talent management cycle to identify the similar bodies in countries where this is national practice.
highest performing people in each business, followed up with
tailored management and leadership programmes for key talent. 5 6 Employee numbers by region
1
Performance and reward 4 1 USA (21,176)
2 Europe (44,677)
Our reward systems support high performance and help to attract
3 Emerging Markets (8,631)
and retain the best people. Performance-based pay and bonuses,
4 Asia Pacific (18,983)
share rewards and share options align employee interests with 3
5 Japan (3,174)
business targets.
6 Canada (2,362)
Communication and employee involvement
2
When new full-time employees join our organisation, they have
Diversity
the opportunity to take part in the GSK Experience, an interactive
We are committed to employment policies free from discrimination
induction programme offered at many locations across the UK
against existing or potential employees on the grounds of age,
and USA. Programme modules are also provided to support
race, ethnic and national origin, gender, sexual orientation, faith
local induction and awareness seminars around the world. This
or disability. GSK is committed to offering people with disabilities
experience gives employees a flavour of the communications and
access to the full range of recruitment and career opportunities.
engagement activities on offer throughout GSK.
Every effort is made to retain and support employees who become
Our communication channels are designed to keep employees disabled while working at GSK. For more details on diversity
informed, engaged and involved in activities across all areas of measures, see our Corporate Responsibility Report.
our organisation. We encourage two-way, open and honest
communication with employees, and in 2008 web technology was Healthy high performance
used increasingly to engage more employees in a more immediate To be able to meet our mission and strategy, our Employee Health
way. New or updated communication channels in 2008 include: and Performance initiatives focus on the health factors that
enable employees to perform at the highest level by sustaining
• myCEO – an area on the GSK intranet that allows employees to
energy and engagement. The programmes developed to
engage directly with the CEO via discussion and Q&A
deliver this health strategy range from the traditional – such as
• The Ambassador community – provides slides, statements and
immunisations, smoking control, and weight management – to
films which give employees company information and keep
cutting-edge programmes in the areas of team and personal
them up-to-date on the issues affecting GSK and the
resilience, ergonomics and Energy for Performance. These
pharmaceutical industry
programmes, available in many languages, are designed to address
• GSKtv – a web-based library of all GSK’s video assets including the root causes of excessive work pressure and low energy and
presentations on strategy and employee broadcasts engagement at work and at home. They are complimented by our
commitment to flexible working that enables employees to do
• Interactive multimedia events such as web broadcasts, multi-site
their best work in an environment that helps them integrate their
Q&A sessions – give regular updates globally from CEO, business
work and personal lives. For more details on scope and impact of
or function leaders
these programmes, see our Corporate Responsibility Report.GSK Annual Report 2008 27
Report of the Directors
Our responsibility
Improving access to medicines Programmes in other countries
We have also introduced Orange Cards providing discounts
Access to healthcare in the developing world
on certain GSK prescription medicines for eligible patients in
There are no easy solutions to the challenge of providing
a number of other countries. The nature of the discounts
sustainable access to healthcare in developing countries. Poverty
varies between countries and the ways in which the healthcare
is the single biggest barrier. In many countries people do not have
systems operate.
enough food, access to a clean water supply, hospitals or clinics
in which to receive treatment and healthcare professionals to care
Patient Advocacy
for them.
The Patient Advocacy initiative has demonstrated significant
We are committed to playing a full part in addressing the progress since its inception in 2002. Initially launched as a US
healthcare challenges of the developing world by taking an programme, it is now a critical initiative throughout GSK. Patient
innovative, responsible and, above all, sustainable approach. GSK Advocacy teams in the USA and Europe share best practices and
is making a vital contribution to developing country healthcare established processes to optimise interaction with patient groups.
through action in a number of areas including: preferential Typically these relationships provide mutual opportunities: to
pricing of our anti-retrovirals and anti-malarials; tiered pricing of learn about patient needs and priorities and for patient groups
our vaccines; investing in R&D that targets diseases particularly to develop an understanding of drug development challenges.
affecting the developing world (see page 28); community
In 2008, we continued to partner with patient groups on
investment activities and partnerships that foster effective
common issues: advocating for access to medicines and treatment,
healthcare (see page 29); and seeking innovative partnerships
increasing funding for health programs and improving health
and solutions. We cover our contribution to improving access to
care delivery. We are considered to be a trustworthy partner with
medicines extensively in our Corporate Responsibility Report.
patient groups and we have worked with patient groups and
In 2008, we were a clear leader in the first Access to Medicines our trade associations to increase the transparency of all of
Index produced by the ATM Foundation. We will continue to build our interactions.
on our product, pricing and partnership commitments to help
improve healthcare in the developing world. In February 2009, Our work with communities
we announced a new approach to pricing in the UN defined list We work as a partner with under-served communities in the
of least developed countries. However, a significant increase in developed and developing world supporting programmes that
funding from the global community is still needed to support are innovative, sustainable and bring real benefits to these
R&D and to provide access to the resultant medicines communities. Our global community investment in 2008 was
and vaccines. £124 million. This compares with £109 million in 2007 on a
like for like basis, an increase of 13%. This comprised product
While much has been achieved, sustainable progress will only
donations valued at £68 million, cash giving of £37 million,
occur if the significant barriers that stand in the way of better
in-kind donations of £4 million plus costs of £15 million to
access to healthcare are tackled as a shared responsibility by all
manage and deliver community programmes in over 100
sectors of global society – governments, international agencies,
countries. The product donations include £56 million for GSK’s
charities, academic institutions, the pharmaceutical industry
patient assistance programmes, £7 million worth of albendazole
and others.
for the Lymphatic filariasis (LF) programme and £5 million for
Access to medicines in the developed world humanitarian product donations. Product donations are for the
Programmes in the USA first time valued at cost (average cost of goods) rather than
We are working to provide access to medicines for people wholesale price (WAC). Our new approach to valuing donations
with limited financial resources and without prescription is a more accurate reflection of the cost to GSK and is therefore
drug insurance. more transparent. We believe we are the first pharmaceutical
company to adopt this practice. For comparative purposes the
For uninsured Americans who do not qualify for Medicare or
total value of donations in 2008 using WAC for products would
Medicaid, GSK and 11 other pharmaceutical companies created
be £343 million compared with £282 million in 2007.
Together Rx Access, a programme for qualified individuals offering
reductions in the pharmacy cost on more than 300 medicines. We do not operate a single charitable foundation for our
Over 820,000 Together Rx Access cardholders saved about community investment programmes, but have a number of
$24 million in 2008. country based foundations and their 2008 grants are included
in the investment total.28 GSK Annual Report 2008
Report of the Directors
Our responsibility
continued
Our cash giving was targeted primarily at health and education PHASE
initiatives as follows: The PHASE programme (Personal Hygiene And Sanitation Education),
initiated by us in 1998, is now providing education to thousands of
5
school children in 13 countries to improve their health and hygiene to
4 1 Health (55%) fight infectious diseases. In 2008, we committed three years funding
3 2 Education (22%) of £320,000 to extend the programme into India.
3 Arts and Culture (5%) Humanitarian product donations
1
4 Environment (2%)
During 2008, we donated essential products, such as antibiotics,
2 5 Other (16%) through non-profit partners including AmeriCares, Direct Relief
International, MAP International and Project HOPE, to support
humanitarian relief efforts and community healthcare. The total
value of our international humanitarian product donations was
Global Health Programmes
£5 million at average cost.
Eliminating lymphatic filariasis
Community initiatives
Our effort to eliminate the disabling disease, LF from the world,
We are dedicated to strengthening the fabric of communities
continued in close partnership with the governments of countries
through providing health and education initiatives and support
where the disease is endemic, the WHO and over 40 partner
for local civic and cultural institutions that improve the quality
organisations. We are committed to donating as much of the
of life. In the UK, we contributed £6 million in 2008 to our
anti-parasitic drug albendazole as required to treat the one
continuing programme of charitable activities supporting over 70
billion people at risk in over 80 countries. In 2008, 266 million
organisations in health, medical research, science education, the
albendazole treatments were donated to 30 countries. We have
arts and the environment.
donated over one billion albendazole treatments since the global
elimination programme started in 2000. Programmes in North America at a national and local level focused
on improving public education, increasing access to healthcare
Positive Action on HIV/AIDS
for children and healthcare (prevention and access) for breast or
Positive Action is our pioneering global programme working
gynaecologic cancers. Funding for these was of $24 million.
with communities affected by AIDS. Started in 1992, it supports
community-based organisations to deliver effective HIV and AIDS GSK was one of 21 companies, and the only manufacturing
education, prevention and healthcare services. During 2008, company, to be awarded the new CommunityMark, following
Positive Action worked with 16 partners to support programmes independent assessment. The Mark created by Business in the
in 21 countries. Positive Action’s larger programmes operate in Community (BitC) was given for our work at local and national
Mexico, Kenya, India, China, Cambodia and Vietnam. level in the UK as well as for our larger international programmes.
The GlaxoSmithKline African Malaria Partnership
Our malaria advocacy programme ‘Mobilising for Malaria’ has
launched country Coalitions Against Malaria in the UK, Belgium,
France, Ethiopia and Cameroon to increase awareness of malaria
and mobilise resources. During 2008, GSK co-sponsored The
Guardian International Development Journalism Awards to
recognise the work of NGOs in addressing the UN Millennium
Development Goals – which included a focus on malaria.GSK Annual Report 2008 29
Report of the Directors
Our responsibility
continued
Health initiatives
Our contribution to improve healthcare included the following grants:
Non Profit partner Amount in 2008 Purpose of grant
Children’s Health Fund $888,000 To extend the Referral Management Initiative (RMI) which ensures
USA continuity of specialist medical care for high-risk children who are
often homeless
Pittsburgh Mercy Foundation $450,000 To provide access to healthcare for homeless men and women in
USA Pittsburgh, USA
GSK IMPACT Awards £489,000 To recognise excellence in non-profit community health
UK and Philadelphia organisations. Charities receive unrestricted grants for their work
dealing with diverse and difficult social issues
Medical Research Charities £449,000 To support medical research programmes
UK
Education initiatives
Non Profit partner Amount in 2008 Purpose of grant
Institute for a Competitive Workforce $100,000 To improve education and create a skilled workforce for the future,
USA working in partnership with a broad business coalition and staffed
by the US Chamber of Commerce
‘Science in the Summer’ $575,000 To teach basic scientific concepts and inspire school children
Philadelphia, Pittsburgh and North Carolina through a library-based science education programme
Project ENTHUSE £200,000 To support Continuing Professional Development (CPD) for science
UK teachers and ultimately encourage children to engage with science
and pursue careers in science and technology
CREST Star Investigators £120,000 To provide science activities and awards for after school clubs in
UK 5,000 UK primary schools, working in partnership with the British
Association for the Advancement of Science
Further information about GSK grants and programmes are available on gsk.com.
Employee involvement
Our employees are encouraged to contribute to their local communities through employee volunteering schemes. Support includes
employee time, cash donations to charities where employees volunteer and matching gift programmes.
Through the US GSK Matching Gift Program, we matched 17,000 employee and retiree gifts at a value of $5 million in 2008 plus
$1 million to the United Way campaign. GSK’s GIVE programme provided grants of over $416,000 to 437 organisations where US
employees volunteered and £244,000 to 400 UK-based non-profit organisations via the GSK Making a Difference programme.30 GSK Annual Report 2008
Report of the Directors
Our responsibility
continued
Responsibility for environment, health EHS and sustainability strategy and plan
and safety The 10-year strategic plan for EHS that extends to 2015 is aligned
Caring for the environment and the health and safety (EHS) of with our strategic priorities and includes management objectives
employees is a key part of our drive to be a sustainable company. with performance measures and targets. In 2008, GSK’s progress
was evaluated against the targets set in 2006.
Traditional environmental control programmes address risks and
impacts from wastes generated by manufacturing and other The focus for 2008 was embedding EHS in the business which
activities. We meet this responsibility with treatment and waste is fundamental to making GSK a sustainable business. It involves
disposal systems that comply with laws, regulations and our own caring for the present while thinking to the future in making
standards of performance. This was the standard of practice for decisions. This supports all three aspirations in the 2006 to 2015
most companies beginning in the 1970’s and 1980’s. Even now plan – embedding EHS in the business, environmental sustainability
we continue to improve our handling of waste but we recognise and open and transparent stakeholder relations. In 2008 we
that these changes are incremental rather than transformative. reviewed our EHS and sustainability priorities with our external and
internal stakeholders. This review identified the following
In the early 1990’s, the concept of sustainability was emerging.
key issues:
Sustainability means we need to be concerned not only with
the short term impacts of pollution but also with the long term • Manufacturing efficiency: The mass efficiency of processes in
impact of resource consumption, the types of materials used development continues to improve and progress is being made
and the persistence of waste in the environment. Our journey to achieve the target to double mass efficiency and thereby halve
to sustainability started with looking holistically at continuing to the waste per unit of product for the manufacturing processes
treat the waste while also finding ways to prevent waste from for all phase III compounds by 2010. Late stage products have
being produced. This requires what is now called sustainable been evaluated since 2005 for efficiency and we are making
technologies – more efficient chemistries and more efficient progress toward our goal.
processes. We recognise that sustainability principles apply to
• Climate change: A comprehensive strategy on climate change
all aspects of our operations. They apply to minimising waste
and energy efficiency was approved and is available on GSK’s
and consumption of natural resources and possibly using
website. A climate change and energy reduction team has been
renewable materials in discovering, manufacturing, packaging
formed to manage a special fund which is used to support
and selling our products and even the impacts from consumers’
climate change projects. The team identified more than 400
use of our products.
projects for 2007 and 2008 to reduce energy consumption and
While traditional environmental programmes are seen as a to increase our use of renewable energy.
cost without a financial return, a sustainable approach, using
• Pharmaceuticals in the Environment: We apply product
less resource, being concerned with the social impact of our
stewardship principles to the issue of pharmaceuticals in
operations, also has a financial benefit. By using less resource,
the environment – principally unmetabolised drugs excreted
we spend less money on operations.
from patients.
We need to continue to address traditional environmental issues at
• Process safety: Our Process Safety Management System is
the same time as we integrate sustainability into all aspects of our
being enhanced, with new engineering standards and training
business from discovering and developing to manufacturing and
programmes under development. The standards will be used
selling pharmaceutical and consumer healthcare products, all of
to design new process plant and to upgrade existing plants
which use energy and resources and produce emissions and waste.
where needed. The training programmes will increase process
safety awareness and competencies for engineers, chemists
and managers.GSK Annual Report 2008 31
Report of the Directors
Our responsibility
continued
EHS management In 2008, GSK remained on track to eliminate the use of CFCs by
2010 and to meet its target for water consumption. Progress was
Responsibility for EHS is at the highest level. The Corporate
made to meet its 2010 targets for wastewater pollution, disposal
Responsibility Committee of the Board of Directors provides
of waste and emissions of volatile organic compounds to air
oversight and a Sustainability Council was formed in 2008 with
due to a combination of conservation programmes and reduced
representatives from all areas of the company. There is a corporate
production of several products. The rate of injuries and illnesses
department reporting to the Chief of Staff that has overall
also improved in line with the target due to continued emphasis
responsibility for providing governance and leadership on EHS and
on employee safety behaviours.
sustainability issues. The head of this department makes regular
reports to the Corporate Executive Team (CET) and the Audit and There was no progress towards the 2010 energy and related
Corporate Responsibility Committees of the Board. Within the greenhouse gas emissions targets and therefore our carbon
businesses all executives and managers are responsible for EHS and footprint remained unchanged. Our energy efficiency projects
are supported by site-based EHS and occupational medical staff. continue with 171 projects completed in 2008 and another 600
identified. The gains from the 2008 projects will be fully realised
As part of our governance responsibility, we conduct EHS audits
in 2009 and beyond. The gains experienced in 2008 in some parts
of our sites, operating entities and key suppliers, assessing the
of the business were offset by the continued expansion of the
management of key risks and impacts and performance against
vaccines business.
our global EHS standards. This includes providing audited sites and
suppliers with quantitative performance information as well as Final EHS performance data for 2008 with explanations of the
highlighting areas for risk reduction and improvement. trends will be published in the Corporate Responsibility report.
EHS targets Sustainability
As part of the EHS plan, targets are set every five years with 2006 In working towards sustainability, we are addressing the economic,
as the baseline year for the targets to 2010. environmental and social issues in research, manufacturing,
sales and distribution of our medicines and consumer healthcare
We selected our measures of performance improvement based
products. Sustainability starts with healthcare solutions found by
on the potential for adverse impact on people, the environment,
R&D and continues with innovations to improve the efficiency of
business continuity or business reputation.
manufacturing processes for new products. This reduces resource
Most of the measures selected are similar to those reported use which in turn lowers waste and cost. With lower costs our
by other companies and are recommended by the Global products may be available to a wider population around the world.
Reporting Initiative, a long-term, multi-stakeholder, international In the future, the EHS plan for excellence proposes investigating
undertaking, to develop and disseminate globally applicable the use of renewable resources in manufacturing.
sustainability reporting guidelines.
We seek dialogue with external stakeholders and consider their
Targets have been set to eliminate chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) from views when developing approaches to sustainable development.
all uses by 2010 and each year to reduce non-hazardous waste More information on EHS programmes and performance may be
disposed by 1%, reduce water use and volatile organic compound found on GSK’s website.
(VOC) releases to air by 2%, reduce pollution of wastewater,
measured as chemical oxygen demand, by 3% and reduce energy
usage and related greenhouse gas emissions by 20% by 2010
and 45% by 2015. All targets are normalised by sales based on
constant exchange rates.32 GSK Annual Report 2008
Report of the Directors
Regulation
Regulation – Pharmaceuticals Generally, national regulatory authorisation is also required
to approve the switch of products from prescription to OTC.
GSK operates within a highly regulated environment. Regional and
However, in a history-making first for the OTC industry, the
country-specific laws and regulations define the data required to
weight loss medicine alli received a centralised European positive
show safety and efficacy of pharmaceutical products, as well as
opinion from the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human
govern testing, approval, manufacturing, labelling and marketing
Use (CHMP) in October. This resulted in approval to market alli
of drugs. These regulatory requirements are a major factor in
across all 27 EU member countries as the first licensed weight loss
determining whether a marketable product may be successfully
treatment available without a prescription.
developed and the amount of time and expense associated with
the development.
Price controls
Drug safety remains a primary focus of the FDA and US In many countries the prices of pharmaceutical products are
congressional oversight committees and, as in Europe, evaluation controlled by law. Governments may also influence prices through
of benefit and risk continues to be a paramount consideration for their control of national healthcare organisations, which may bear
approval of a new drug. The FDA Amendments Act, US legislation a large part of the cost of supplying medicines to consumers.
passed in 2007, renewed the User Fee system for drug reviews
Recent government healthcare reforms in countries such as France,
and mandates a rigorous FDA review of safety from approval
Spain and Germany may restrict pricing and reimbursement.
through the post-marketing phase of the product. The legislation
also provides the FDA with the authority to convene Advisory In the USA, recent legislative proposals on healthcare reform,
Committees to review all new drugs prior to approval decisions by cross-border trade, the acceleration of generics to market and
FDA, to require sponsors to complete post-marketing studies and comparative effectiveness have further increased the focus on
to direct companies to make product labelling changes. The FDA pricing. Currently, there are no government price controls over
are routinely exercising these new authorities. private sector purchases, but federal law requires pharmaceutical
manufacturers to pay prescribed rebates on certain drugs to be
Regulations requiring development of prescription drugs and
eligible for reimbursement under Medicaid and other state and
biologics for paediatric populations are now in place in the US and
federal healthcare programmes. Healthcare remains a leading
EU. GSK fully supports the objective of ensuring the development
domestic issue. During the 2008 US Presidential elections the
of better medicines for children.
candidates focused on health reforms to address chronic disease
In Europe, proposals for further legislative change were announced as the primary healthcare cost driver, rather than focusing on drug
by the European Commission during 2008. These aim to prices alone.
strengthen the EU system for the safety monitoring of medicines,
improve citizen’s access to reliable information on medicines and Medicare
strengthen EU laws to protect citizens better from the threats From 2006, the US Medicare program, a federally funded
posed by fake medicines. healthcare insurance programme benefiting senior citizens and
certain disabled Americans, included coverage for prescription
The regulatory environment in Emerging Markets and Asia-Pacific
medicines. The coverage is voluntary, includes brand-name and
continues to evolve, with a number of countries continuing to
generic drugs and is open to the 41 million Americans with
develop their regulatory review systems. GSK actively participates
Medicare coverage.
in a number of specific regional and national regulatory initiatives,
which provide opportunities for meaningful scientific and regulatory
Value for money
dialogue between industry, agencies and other stakeholders. GSK
Payers around the world are concerned about the cost of
continues to include broader sets of patient populations from a
healthcare and the pricing of medicines. The requirement to
number of these countries in medicine development programmes in
satisfy healthcare purchasers on value for money is becoming
order to increase global patient access to new innovative medicines
an additional hurdle for product acceptance over and above the
and optimise regulatory approvals.
regulatory tests of safety, efficacy and quality.
Regulation – Consumer Healthcare
The consumer healthcare industry is subject to national regulation
comparable to that for prescription medicines for the testing,
approval, manufacturing, labelling and marketing of products.
High standards of technical appraisal frequently involve a lengthy
approval process before a new product is launched.GSK Annual Report 2008 33
Report of the Directors
Economy, world market and outlook
World economy World market – pharmaceuticals
The world economy deteriorated sharply during 2008 as the financial
Global pharmaceutical sales in 2008 were £366 billion compared
crisis deepened, particularly following the bankruptcy of Lehman
with £329 billion in 2007.
Brothers in September. Despite aggressive cuts in official interest
rates, fiscal stimulus measures and national initiatives to support World market by Value % of Growth
the international banking system, the International Monetary Fund geographic region £bn total £%
forecasts that global growth will slow from an estimated 3.4% in USA 145 39 1
2008 to a mere 0.5% in 2009, the lowest rate since World War II. Europe 112 31 18
The advanced economies are expected to contract by 2% in 2009, France 21 6 18
the first annual contraction in the post-war period. Germany 20 6 20
Italy 13 3 19
The slump in global demand led to a collapse in equity prices, with
UK 12 3 2
the FTSE 100 Index falling by 31% and the Dow Jones Industrial
Rest of World 109 30 19
Average by 33% in 2008, and also a collapse in commodity
Emerging markets 49 13 24
prices. Weak economic activity and lower commodity prices have Asia Pacific 17 5 16
dampened inflationary pressures. In the advanced economies the Japan 33 9 16
headline inflation rate is forecast by the IMF to decline from an Canada 10 3 17
estimated 3.5% in 2008 to a record low of 0.3% in 2009.
Total 366 100 11
In order to engender economic recovery, the Federal Open Market
The US market has increased by 1%. This represents 39% of the
Committee (FOMC) decided in December to cut the target for the
global prescription pharmaceutical market compared with 30%
federal funds rate from 1% to 0-0.25%. The decision signalled
a decade ago.
that the FOMC would effectively target the supply of credit rather
than the price of credit. Nonetheless, the IMF forecasts that real At 30th September 2008, GSK held second position in the world
GDP in the USA will contract by 2% in 2009. The housing market pharmaceutical market with a market share of 5.3%, behind Pfizer
remains of particular concern. with a market share of 6.4%. GSK had three of the world’s top
60 pharmaceutical products. These were Lamictal, Seretide/Advair
Like the FOMC, the Monetary Policy Committee of the Bank of England
and Valtrex.
aggressively eased its monetary stance in 2008, cutting the bank
rate from 5.5% to 2%. The bank rate has already been cut further World market – Value % of Growth
in 2009 to 1%. To reinforce the impact of the cuts in the bank rate, top six therapeutic classes £bn total £%
the Government has empowered the Bank of England to purchase Central nervous system 60 16 11
high quality assets like corporate bonds and commercial paper from Cardiovascular 54 15 4
commercial banks. The IMF forecasts that real GDP in the UK will Alimentary tract and metabolic 44 12 10
contract by 2.8% in 2009, more than in any other advanced economy. Antineoplastic/Immunomodulatory 40 11 20
Anti-infectives (bacterial, 38 10 11
The European Central Bank maintained a more cautious approach
viral and fungal) excluding
to monetary relaxation, cutting the refinancing rate from 4.25% to vaccines
2.5% in 2008. The refinancing rate was cut another 0.5 percentage Respiratory 25 7 8
point in January 2009. Additional monetary easing is anticipated.
The IMF forecasts that real GDP in the euro-zone will contract by (Note: data based on 12 months to 30th September 2008)
2% in 2009, with real GDP in Germany plunging by 2.5%.
Outlook
Like the other major industrialised economies, Japan fell into recession 2008 marked a turning point and those factors which impacted
in 2008. The prime factor was the downturn in external demand. our performance, in particular declines in Avandia sales, are
The Bank of Japan cut the overnight call money rate from 0.5% to now starting to reduce. 2008 also saw the first steps towards
0.1%. Real GDP is forecast by the IMF to contract by 2.6% in 2009. a radical transformation of our business model. We enter 2009
with confidence and expect to make further good progress in
China and India remained on a path of economic expansion
implementing our strategic priorities that will enable us to meet
in 2008. However, the pace of expansion decelerated. Further
our long-term objective of reducing risk and delivering sustainable
deceleration is expected in 2009. Economic activity in Brazil
growth to shareholders.
remained buoyant in 2008 but is expected to slow markedly
in 2009. Uncertainties surrounding the economic outlook are
unusually large, with downside risks continuing to dominate.34 GSK Annual Report 2008
Report of the Directors
Financial review 2008
Pharmaceutical turnover CNS
All growth rates included in the review of turnover are at constant CNS sales decreased 21% to £2.9 billion.
exchange rates (CER) unless otherwise stated. Sterling growth
The majority of GSK’s CNS franchise is now impacted by generic
rates may be found in the tables of pharmaceutical turnover by
competition in the USA, as generic competition to Lamictal, Imigran
therapeutic areas on page 35 and by geographic region on
and the remaining presentation of Wellbutrin started during
page 36.
the course of 2008. There was, however, some positive news as
Total pharmaceutical turnover declined 3% for the year to Treximet was approved for migraine by the FDA in April 2008.
£20.4 billion, driven largely by US performance, down 11% to
Cardiovascular and urogenital
£8.9 billion, which was impacted by expected generic competition
Cardiovascular and urogenital sales increased 8% to £1.8 billion.
to several mature brands and further declines in Avandia sales.
Sales in Asia Pacific and Japan fell 1% to £1.9 billion, reflecting Strong growth across most of the portfolio of products was partly
lower government orders for Relenza and the impact of offset by generic competition to Coreg IR. Lovaza, for very high
pharmaceutical price cuts in Japan. These declines were partly triglycerides, which was acquired from Reliant Pharmaceuticals
offset by growth in Europe, up 3% to £6.5 billion, and Emerging in 2007, grew 71% on a proforma basis to £290 million and
Markets, up 12% to £2.3 billion. In sterling terms, pharmaceutical grew its US market share by 33%. Avodart, for benign prostatic
turnover grew by 6%, reflecting the weakness of Sterling against hyperplasia (enlarged prostate), grew 27% to £399 million taking
most major currencies. a further percentage point of market share, Arixtra, for deep vein
thrombosis and pulmonary embolism, grew 53% to £170 million
Pharmaceutical turnover by therapeutic area
and Coreg CR grew 73% to £165 million.
GSK turnover declined by 3% in 2008 as the impact of lower
Metabolic
Avandia sales, US generic competition to a range of GSK’s
Metabolic sales decreased 28% to £1.2 billion.
products and lower flu pre-pandemic sales was partly offset by
strong growth of key products such as Advair, Valtrex, Epzicom, Strong growth of Bonviva/Boniva, for postmenopausal osteoporosis,
Avodart, Lovaza and the vaccines franchise. up 34% to £237 million was not enough to offset a full year impact
to Avandia whose sales started to fall in May 2007 (see Financial
Respiratory review 2007 on page 54). Avandia product sales declined 40%
Respiratory sales increased 5% to £5.8 billion. during the year to £805 million, with US sales falling 49% to
£434 million and European sales down 22% to £198 million. In
Sales of Seretide/Advair for asthma and COPD rose 8% to
Emerging Markets, Avandia product sales returned to growth in the
£4.1 billion. In the USA, Advair sales rose 6% to £2.2 billion, with
second half of the year (Q4 sales were up 12%).
a return to volume growth in the second half of the year. During
2008, the FDA granted Advair an indication in COPD for prevention
Oncology and emesis
of exacerbations and this has helped grow the COPD segment of
Oncology and emesis sales decreased 6% to £0.5 billion.
our Advair business. In Europe, sales increased by 4%
to £1.4 billion. Advair performance was particularly strong in Tykerb, for breast cancer, continued to grow following approval
Emerging Markets, up 26% to £215 million, and Japan, where in the USA last year. Approvals in other countries were achieved
sales of the product more than doubled to £83 million following throughout 2008, with the European approval being achieved
its launch in 2007. in June.
Anti-virals Vaccines
Anti-virals decreased 4% to £3.2 billion. Vaccine sales increased 15% to £2.5 billion.
GSK’s HIV business continues to experience strong competition. Within the vaccines portfolio, there were strong performances
Epzicom/Kivexa grew by 23% to £442 million but this was more from Hepatitis vaccines (up 14% to £665 million) and combination
than offset by declines across the rest of the portfolio. Sales of paediatric vaccines Infanrix/Pediarix (up 12% to £682 million).
Valtrex, for herpes, rose 16% to £1.2 billion with US sales up 20% Rotarix, for rotavirus gastroenteritis, rose 71% to £167 million,
fuelling the growth. Sales of flu anti-viral Relenza fell 80% largely driven by government tender orders in Latin America and
to £57 million reflecting fewer government orders for the launch of the product in the USA in August. New cervical
pre-pandemic stockpiling. cancer vaccine, Cervarix, recorded sales of £125 million for the
year, following several tender wins, including national government
orders in the UK and the Netherlands.GSK Annual Report 2008 35
Report of the Directors
Financial review 2008
continued
Pharmaceutical turnover by therapeutic area 2008
Total USA Europe Rest of World
Therapeutic area/ % of 2008 2007 Growth 2008 Growth 2008 Growth 2008 Growth
major products total £m £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Respiratory 29 5,817 5,032 5 16 2,720 6 14 1,982 2 14 1,115 9 22
Seretide/Advair 4,137 3,499 8 18 2,161 6 14 1,416 4 17 560 29 42
Flixotide/Flovent 677 621 (2) 9 317 3 12 175 (4) 11 185 (9) 3
Serevent 263 269 (12) (2) 72 (9) (3) 136 (9) 1 55 (23) (10)
Veramyst 72 21 >100 >100 56 >100 >100 11 – – 5 >100 >100
Flixonase/Flonase 186 199 (15) (7) 52 (29) (28) 52 (6) 6 82 (8) 5
Anti-virals 16 3,206 3,027 (4) 6 1,600 (1) 7 850 (12) – 756 (1) 10
HIV 1,513 1,442 (5) 5 640 (7) – 636 (6) 7 237 4 13
Epzicom/Kivexa 442 324 23 36 178 15 25 209 25 40 55 48 67
Combivir 433 455 (14) (5) 180 (14) (8) 166 (19) (8) 87 1 10
Trizivir 212 233 (18) (9) 106 (18) (12) 92 (18) (6) 14 (20) (7)
Agenerase, Lexiva 160 141 2 13 83 (1) 6 61 – 15 16 40 60
Epivir 139 156 (20) (11) 47 (19) (11) 58 (22) (9) 34 (18) (13)
Ziagen 106 109 (11) (3) 45 (9) – 36 (11) – 25 (14) (11)
Valtrex 1,195 934 16 28 870 20 30 144 9 25 181 4 20
Zeffix 188 168 – 12 15 8 15 27 – 17 146 (1) 11
Relenza 57 262 (80) (78) 20 (86) (85) 6 (92) (92) 31 (49) (44)
Central nervous system 14 2,897 3,348 (21) (13) 1,815 (29) (24) 565 (1) 12 517 (3) 11
Lamictal 926 1,097 (22) (16) 711 (26) (20) 147 (8) 3 68 2 10
Imigran/Imitrex 687 685 (8) – 550 (9) (1) 96 (3) 8 41 (8) 8
Seroxat/Paxil 514 553 (19) (7) 79 (49) (45) 115 (14) (4) 320 (7) 10
Wellbutrin 342 529 (40) (35) 310 (44) (39) 18 >100 >100 14 8 8
Requip 266 346 (31) (23) 102 (60) (57) 133 29 46 31 65 82
Requip XL 43 – – – 9 – – 34 – – – – –
Treximet 25 – – – 25 – – – – – – – –
Cardiovascular and urogenital 9 1,847 1,554 8 19 1,107 6 14 512 10 28 228 15 25
Avodart 399 285 27 40 242 27 38 118 21 39 39 48 56
Lovaza 290 5 >100 >100 289 >100 >100 – – – 1 – –
Coreg 203 587 (68) (65) 200 (68) (66) – – – 3 (67) (50)
Coreg CR 165 88 73 88 163 72 85 – – – 2 – –
Coreg IR 38 499 (93) (92) 37 (93) (92) – – – 1 (83) (83)
Fraxiparine 226 184 7 23 – – – 178 – 18 48 36 45
Arixtra 170 100 53 70 88 49 60 71 56 82 11 67 83
Vesicare 71 50 32 42 71 32 42 – – – – – –
Levitra 60 49 12 22 57 11 21 3 – 50 – – –
Metabolic 6 1,191 1,508 (28) (21) 590 (39) (34) 294 (11) 1 307 (14) (5)
Avandia products 805 1,219 (40) (34) 434 (49) (44) 198 (22) (12) 173 (25) (19)
Avandia 512 877 (46) (42) 299 (53) (49) 82 (33) (26) 131 (30) (25)
Avandamet 256 292 (21) (12) 109 (32) (26) 111 (13) – 36 – 6
Bonviva/Boniva 237 161 34 47 156 25 36 74 48 68 7 >100 >100
Anti-bacterials 7 1,429 1,323 (2) 8 174 (17) (11) 635 (6) 8 620 7 15
Augmentin 587 530 – 11 49 (31) (27) 272 – 14 266 11 18
Altabax 16 11 36 45 15 27 36 1 – – – – –
Oncology and emesis 2 496 477 (6) 4 243 (17) (11) 169 9 25 84 9 20
Hycamtin 140 119 7 18 81 7 16 49 5 23 10 11 11
Zofran 110 196 (51) (44) 3 (97) (96) 63 (21) (10) 44 (17) (8)
Tykerb 102 51 80 100 47 22 31 42 >100 >100 13 >100 >100
Vaccines 12 2,539 1,993 15 27 629 (7) – 1,155 28 44 755 21 34
Hepatitis 665 529 14 26 275 28 38 263 - 14 127 16 27
Infanrix/Pediarix 682 543 12 26 212 1 8 377 21 39 93 11 22
Fluarix, FluLaval 215 174 11 24 85 (20) (13) 78 63 90 52 37 49
Flu-prepandemic 66 146 (55) (55) 1 (99) (99) 64 25 25 1 - -
Cervarix 125 10 >100 >100 – – – 104 >100 >100 21 >100 >100
Rotarix 167 91 71 84 21 – – 43 61 87 103 46 51
Boostrix 70 66 (5) 6 35 (20) (13) 26 21 37 9 14 29
Other 5 959 901 (3) 6 16 (78) (75) 321 14 26 622 (1) 7
100 20,381 19,163 (3) 6 8,894 (11) (4) 6,483 3 17 5,004 5 16
CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates. £% represents growth at actual exchange rates. Turnover by quarter is given in the Financial record on pages 190 to 193.36 GSK Annual Report 2008
Report of the Directors
Financial review 2008
continued
Regional analysis The following table gives the adjustments made in order to
restate the turnover for markets within Europe on a turnover
Pharmaceutical turnover by geographic region in 2008 created basis.
on an invoiced basis
The turnover reported in the table below represents sales invoiced 2008 2007
Region/ Invoiced Adjustment Created Invoiced Adjustment Created
by GSK’s local entity to its customers in the local market plus
major markets £m £m £m £m £m £m
co-promotion income within each market.
Europe 6,483 – 6,483 5,560 – 5,560
France 1,069 (55) 1,014 991 (43) 948
Region/ % of 2008 2007 Growth* UK 900 83 983 822 101 923
major markets total £m £m CER% £%
Italy 757 (19) 738 620 (14) 606
USA 44 8,894 9,273 (11) (4)
Germany 707 107 814 602 87 689
Europe 32 6,483 5,560 3 17 Spain 700 (10) 690 605 (12) 593
France 1,069 991 (7) 8 Other Europe 2,350 (106) 2,244 1,920 (119) 1,801
UK 900 822 9 9
Italy 757 620 5 22 These adjustments are GSK’s estimates based on the most recent
Germany 707 602 2 17 data from independent external sources, valued in Sterling at
Spain 700 605 – 16
relevant exchange rates. Management believes that this turnover
Other Europe 2,350 1,920 6 22
created basis of reporting turnover by market provides a better
Rest of World 24 5,004 4,330 5 16 reflection of the performance of the businesses in each market
Emerging Markets 2,290 1,895 12 21 within Europe.
Japan 1,027 867 (3) 18
The total turnover for the Europe region is unaffected by
Asia Pacific 891 834 1 7
these adjustments.
Canada 503 477 (4) 5
Other 293 257 4 14 Parallel trade occurs occasionally elsewhere in the world, but it is
100 20,381 19,163 (3) 6 not sufficiently material to affect significantly the turnover data
by market presented on an invoiced basis.
* CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates. £% represents growth
Pharmaceutical turnover by geographic region in 2008
at actual exchange rates.
on a turnover created basis
Individual governments determine the pricing of medicines in most
countries within Europe, which can result in wide price variations Turnover by market within Europe has been adjusted for the
for the same product. Parallel trade occurs when third parties effects of parallel trade to show turnover on the basis of the
exploit this price differential by purchasing products in markets country where the product is finally consumed, not where the
where low prices are enforced and selling them to governments product was sold by GSK.
and other purchasers in those markets where higher prices have
been agreed. This parallel trade is permitted under the single Region/ % of 2008 2007 Growth*
major markets total £m £m CER% £%
market rules in the European Union. GSK does not derive any
USA 44 8,894 9,273 (11) (4)
benefit from the profit on resale at the higher price.
Europe 32 6,483 5,560 3 17
As a result, management believes that within the European region, France 1,014 948 (8) 7
turnover by market, on an invoiced basis as presented above, UK 983 923 7 7
does not properly represent the consumption of the products Italy 738 606 5 22
within each market. GSK employees based in each market are Germany 814 689 2 18
instrumental in the promotion of the Group’s products within the Spain 690 593 1 16
market, thereby creating a product sale and final consumption Other Europe 2,244 1,801 7 25
in that market.
Rest of World 24 5,004 4,330 5 16
Emerging Markets 2,290 1,895 12 21
Japan 1,027 867 (3) 18
Asia Pacific 891 834 1 7
Canada 503 477 (4) 5
Other 293 257 4 14
100 20,381 19,163 (3) 6
* CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates. £% represents growth
at actual exchange rates. Turnover by quarter is given in the Financial record on
pages 190 to 193.GSK Annual Report 2008 37
Report of the Directors
Financial review 2008
continued
USA OTC medicines
Sales in the USA declined 11% to £8.9 billion, principally reflecting OTC product sales declined 2% to £1.9 billion in 2008, with sales of
a full year impact on Avandia (down 49%) and generic competition smoking cessation products down 12% to £299 million. Panadol sales
to significant products such as Lamictal (down 26%), Imigran (down grew 12% to £324 million, twice the global average in 2008.
9%), Wellbutrin XL (down 45%), Requip (down 60%) and Coreg IR
(down 93%). These declines were partly offset by Advair (up 6%), Oral healthcare
Valtrex (up 20%) and Lovaza (up 71% on proforma basis). Sales of Oral healthcare products rose 6% to £1.2 billion, whereas the
market grew just 2%. There were strong performances from Sensodyne,
Europe up 12% to £363 million, and Aquafresh, up 3% to £452 million.
Sales in Europe increased 3% to £6.5 billion with continued growth Sensodyne’s growth represented 35% of world toothpaste growth in
of Seretide and particularly strong vaccines growth offsetting 2008 in markets where GSK competes.
the impact of generic competition to a number of products and
continued price cuts from governments across the region. Nutritional healthcare
Within Nutritionals, Horlicks sales rose 13% to £204 million, Lucozade
Emerging Markets sales rose 7% to £382 million and Ribena sales were flat at £161 million,
Sales in Emerging Markets increased 12% to £2.3 billion with strong although sales of Lucozade and Ribena in the second half of the year
growth in Russia (up 36%), China (up 22%) and Latin America (up declined slightly, largely as a result of poor weather in the UK.
16%). The growth was fuelled primarily by vaccines, up 32% to
£0.5 billion, and the respiratory franchise, up 16% to £0.4 billion. Results before major restructuring
and total results
Asia Pacific/Japan
In October 2007 the Board approved the implementation of
Increased sales of Seretide/Advair (up 48% to £204 million) were
a detailed formal plan for, and GSK announced, a significant
offset by lower Government orders for Relenza in Japan and some
new Operational Excellence restructuring programme.
price cuts.
A second formal plan, representing a significant expansion of
Consumer Healthcare turnover the Operational Excellence programme, was approved by the
Board and announced in February 2009. This restructuring
% of 2008 2007 Growth programme, comprising these detailed formal plans, covers all
total £m £m CER% £% areas of GSK’s business, including manufacturing, selling, R&D
Over-the-counter medicines 49 1,935 1,788 (2) 8 and infrastructure. With an estimated total cost of approximately
Panadol franchise 324 263 12 23 £3.6 billion, the expanded programme is expected to deliver
Smoking cessation products 299 314 (12) (5) annual pre-tax savings of approximately £1.7 billion by the time
Tums 91 88 (5) 3 it is substantially complete in 2011. Approximately 40% of these
Cold sore franchise 89 79 3 13
costs were incurred by 31st December 2008, and approximately
Breathe Right 81 63 17 29
35% are expected to be incurred in 2009, 20% in 2010 and the
alli 75 150 (53) (50)
balance mostly in 2011. In total, approximately 75% of these
Oral healthcare 31 1,240 1,049 6 18 costs are expected to be cash expenditures and 25% are expected
Aquafresh franchise 452 398 3 14 to be accounting write-downs. Uncertainties exist over the exact
Sensodyne franchise 363 293 12 24 amount and timing of cash outflows, as a result of potential
Dental care 271 222 8 22 future exchange rate fluctuations and as many elements of the
restructuring programme are subject to employee consultation
Nutritional healthcare 20 796 716 8 11
Lucozade 382 347 7 10 procedures, making it difficult to predict with precision when
Horlicks 204 174 13 17 these procedures will be completed. However, the majority
Ribena 161 156 – 3 of the remaining cash payments are expected to be made in
2009 and 2010. Given the extent and cost of the Operational
100 3,971 3,553 3 12
Excellence programme, management believes it has a material
* CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates. £% represents growth impact on GSK’s operating results and on the manner in which
at actual exchange rates. Turnover by quarter is given in the Financial record
GSK’s business is conducted. GSK presents the restructuring costs
on pages 194 to 195.
incurred solely as a direct result of the Operational Excellence
Total Consumer Healthcare sales for the year rose 3% to £4 billion. programme, which in 2008 amounted to £1,089 million before
This compares with growth of 14% in 2007, which benefited from tax (2007 – £338 million), in a separate column in the income
launch stocking of new anti-obesity treatment alli. 2008 sales of alli statement titled ‘Major restructuring’.
were £75 million, down 53%. Excluding alli, Consumer Healthcare
sales rose 5% in 2008 (up 9% in 2007).38 GSK Annual Report 2008
Report of the Directors
Financial review 2008
continued
In addition to the restructuring costs of the Operational Excellence The remaining costs of £236 million in 2008 arose from
programme, the major restructuring column in the income miscellaneous expenditures incurred solely as a direct result of
statement includes restructuring costs incurred solely as a direct the restructuring programmes, including consultancy and project
result of any restructuring programmes that follow, and relate management fees, the termination of leases, site closure costs and,
to, material acquisitions where the operations of the acquired with respect to 2008, the recognition of foreign exchange losses
business overlap extensively with GSK’s existing operations. following the liquidation of a subsidiary in Puerto Rico. No costs
arising from GSK’s ongoing operating activities have been reported
The restructuring activities that follow, and relate to, such
in the major restructuring column.
acquisitions are of the same nature as those undertaken under
the Operational Excellence programme and are also carried out Any restructuring costs that do not arise solely as a direct result
following a detailed formal plan. Management therefore considers of the Operational Excellence programme and restructuring
it appropriate to present the costs of these restructuring activities programmes following, and relating to, acquisitions meeting the
in the same manner. The $1.65 billion (£814 million) acquisition criteria described above continue to be reported in operating
of Reliant Pharmaceuticals Inc. in December 2007 is the only expenses within results before major restructuring. These costs
acquisition since October 2007 that meets the criteria set out included restructuring costs related to minor acquisitions and
above and thus is the only acquisition where the costs incurred £20 million of costs in 2008 (2007 – £92 million) that related to
as a direct result of a related restructuring programme have restructuring activity initiated before the commencement of the
been included within the major restructuring column. The total Operational Excellence programme. None of this restructuring
restructuring costs incurred as a direct result of this acquisition activity had a material impact on GSK’s operating results or on the
were £34 million, all of which have been charged and paid manner in which its business is conducted.
in 2008.
During the anticipated duration of the Operational Excellence
The Group’s results before the costs of the Operational Excellence programme, GSK does not currently expect to incur any material
programme and acquisition-related restructuring programmes restructuring costs except those related to that programme and
meeting the criteria described above are also presented in a acquisitions meeting the criteria described above. If any further,
separate column in the income statement and are described as unanticipated material restructuring costs were to arise during
‘Results before major restructuring’. This presentation, which this period, GSK would expect also to include them in the major
GSK intends to apply consistently to future major restructuring restructuring column.
programmes that have a material impact on GSK’s operating
GSK’s operating profit, profit before taxation, taxation and profit
results and on the manner in which GSK’s business is conducted,
for the year are discussed below in terms of both total results,
has been adopted to show clearly the Group’s results both
which include major restructuring costs, and results before major
before and after the costs of these restructuring programmes.
restructuring.
Management believes that this presentation assists shareholders
in gaining a clearer understanding of the Group’s financial Operating profit – total results
performance and in making projections of future financial
Total results include restructuring costs related to the new
performance, as results that include such costs, by virtue of their
Operational Excellence programme, which commenced in
size and nature, have limited comparative value. This presentation
October 2007, and the Reliant restructuring programme.
is also consistent with the way management assesses the Group’s
financial performance.
2008 2007 Growth
£m % £m % CER% £%
Only the restructuring costs incurred solely as a direct result of
Turnover 24,352 100 22,716 100.0 (3) 7
the Operational Excellence programme and the restructuring
programme following the Reliant acquisition have been reported Cost of sales (6,415) (26.3) (5,317) (23.4) 13 21
in the major restructuring column in the income statement. Selling, general
These restructuring costs principally have arisen from impairments and administration (7,656) (31.4) (6,954) (30.6) 2 10
Research and
to property, plant and equipment and the termination of the
development (3,681) (15.2) (3,327) (14.7) 4 11
employment contracts of staff made redundant as part of the
Other operating
restructuring activities. As set out in Note 7 to the financial
income 541 2.2 475 2.1 11 14
statements, ‘Major restructuring programmes’, asset impairments
and staff redundancies together accounted for £887 million of the Operating profit 7,141 29.3 7,593 33.4 (20) (6)
£1,123 million restructuring costs incurred in 2008 and reported in
the major restructuring column (2007 – £338 million).GSK Annual Report 2008 39
Report of the Directors
Financial review 2008
continued
Cost of sales Profit before taxation – total results
Cost of sales increased to 26.3% of turnover (2007 – 23.4%).
At constant exchange rates, cost of sales as a percentage of turnover Net finance costs
increased by 3.8 percentage points to 27.2%, reflecting charges
2008 2007
related to the major restructuring programmes of £639 million Finance income £m £m
(2007 – £111 million) and unfavourable product and regional Interest and other finance income 322 255
mix compared with 2007, partly offset by savings from the Fair value adjustments and hedges (9) 7
restructuring programmes. 313 262
Selling, general and administration Finance costs
SG&A costs, including legal charges, were 31.4% of turnover Interest costs (829) (434)
(2007 – 30.6%), a increase of 0.8 percentage points. At constant Unwinding of discount on liabilities (16) (27)
exchange rates, the increase was 1.4 percentage points. Legal Fair value adjustments and hedges 2 8
costs of £611 million (2007 – £255 million) included a
(843) (453)
£278 million charge announced in January 2009 related to the
US investigation into GSK’s marketing and promotional practices Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures
which originated in Colorado. SG&A costs included charges of The share of after tax profits of associates of £48 million
£304 million (2007 – £137 million) related to the major (2007 – £50 million) arises principally from the Group’s holding
restructuring programmes. Excluding legal costs, SG&A decreased in Quest Diagnostics Inc.
by 1.6%.
Profit before taxation – total results
Research and development Taking account of net finance costs and the share of profits of
R&D expenditure increased 4% and included charges related to associates, total profit before taxation was £6,659 million compared
the major restructuring programmes of £175 million with £7,452 million in 2007, a 24% CER decline and an 11%
(2007 – £90 million). Excluding these charges, R&D expenditure sterling decline.
increased 2% in CER terms as investment in the late stage pipeline
was partly offset by restructuring savings. Operating profit – results before
major restructuring
Other operating income
Other operating income of £541 million (2007 – £475 million) The results before major restructuring are set out below:
included strong growth in royalty income to £307 million
(2007 – £216 million). Product, intellectual property and equity 2008 2007 Growth
£m % £m % CER% £%
investment disposals realised £230 million in 2008 compared with
Turnover 24,352 100 22,716 100.0 (3) 7
£90 million in 2007. The Roche litigation settlement was included
in 2007. Cost of sales (5,776) (23.7) (5,206) (22.9) 4 11
Selling, general
Operating profit – total results and administration (7,352) (30.2) (6,817) (30.0) – 8
Research and
Total operating profit of £7,141 million decreased by 6% in sterling
development (3,506) (14.4) (3,237) (14.3) 2 8
terms and 20% in CER terms compared with 2007. Pharmaceuticals
Other operating
operating profit was £6,331 million, down 21%, while Consumer
income 541 2.2 475 2.1 11 14
Healthcare operating profit fell by only 2% to £810 million.
Operating profit 8,259 33.9 7,931 34.9 (10) 4
In the year, gains from asset disposals and settlements were
£293 million (2007 – £213 million), costs for legal matters were Cost of sales
£611 million (2007 – £255 million), fair value movements on financial Cost of sales increased by 0.8 percentage points to 23.7% of
instruments resulted in a charge of £10 million (2007 – income turnover. At constant exchange rates the increase was 1.5 percentage
of £41 million) and charges relating to previous restructuring points of turnover, principally reflecting the impact of generic
programmes were £20 million (2007 – £92 million). Charges competition to higher margin products in the USA, lower Avandia
related to the major restructuring programmes were £1,118 million sales and a higher proportion of sales generated in lower margin
(2007 – £338 million). The impact of all these items on total vaccines, brands sold in Emerging Markets and Consumer
operating profit was a £1,466 million charge in 2008 compared Healthcare products. This was partly offset by savings from the
with a £431 million charge in 2007. restructuring programmes.40 GSK Annual Report 2008
Report of the Directors
Financial review 2008
continued
Selling, general and administration Profit before taxation – results before
SG&A costs, including legal charges, were 30.2% of turnover major restructuring
(2007 – 30.0%). At constant exchange rates, SG&A costs increased
by 0.7 percentage points to 30.7% of turnover. Legal costs of Net finance costs
£611 million (2007 – £255 million) included a £278 million charge
2008 2007
announced in January 2009 related to the US investigation into Finance income £m £m
GSK’s marketing and promotional practices which originated in Interest and other income 322 255
Colorado. Excluding legal costs, SG&A as a percentage of turnover Fair value adjustments and hedges (9) 7
fell 1.2 percentage points to 27.7% (2007 – 28.9%). This was a
313 262
3% growth in sterling terms, but a 4% reduction at constant
exchange rates, reflecting the benefits of the restructuring Finance costs
programmes. Selling and distribution fell by 1%, advertising and Interest costs (829) (434)
promotion by 5% and general and administration expenditure, Unwinding of discount on liabilities (11) (27)
excluding legal charges, by 7%. Fair value adjustments and hedges 2 8
(838) (453)
Research and development
R&D expenditure increased by 2% to 14.4% of turnover Taking account of net finance costs and the share of profits of
(2007 – 14.3%) as investment in the late stage pipeline was partly associates, profit before tax before major restructuring was
offset by restructuring savings. £7,782 million compared with £7,790 million in 2007, a 14%
CER decline but flat in sterling terms.
Other operating income
Other operating income of £541 million (2007 – £475 million) Taxation
included strong growth in royalty income to £307 million
(2007 – £216 million). Product, intellectual property and equity 2008 2007
£m £m
investment disposals realised £230 million in 2008 compared
UK corporation tax 289 452
with £90 million in 2007. The Roche litigation settlement was
Overseas taxation 1,589 1,962
included in 2007.
Current taxation 1,878 2,414
Operating profit – results before major restructuring Deferred taxation 69 (272)
Operating profit before major restructuring of £8,259 million for
Taxation on total profits 1,947 2,142
the year increased by 4% in sterling terms but decreased by
10% in CER terms compared with 2007. Pharmaceuticals The charge for taxation on profit before major restructuring
operating profit was £7,427 million, down 11%, while Consumer charges, amounting to £2,231 million (2007 – £2,219 million),
Healthcare operating profit was flat in CER terms at £832 million. and represents an effective tax rate of 28.7% (2007 – 28.5%).
Excluding legal costs, operating profit decreased by 6%, which The charge for taxation on total profits amounted to
was greater than the turnover decline of 3%, primarily due to £1,947 million (2007 – £2,142 million) and represented an
higher cost of sales as a percentage of turnover. effective tax rate of 29.2% (2007 – 28.7%). The Group’s balance
sheet at 31st December 2008 included a tax payable liability of
In the year, gains from asset disposals and settlements were
£780 million and a tax recoverable asset of £76 million.
£293 million (2007 – £213 million), costs for legal matters
were £611 million (2007 – £255 million), fair value movements The Group’s main open tax issues are in the USA, Canada and Japan.
on financial instruments resulted in a charge of £10 million
In July, following discussions with HMRC, the Group settled
(2007 – income of £41 million) and charges relating to previous
substantially all outstanding UK tax issues for all periods up to and
restructuring programmes were £20 million (2007 – £92 million).
including 31st December 2006.
The impact of these items on operating profit before major
Following its audit of the period 2001 to 2003, the IRS issued
restructuring was a £348 million charge in 2008
Statutory Notices of Deficiency to GSK asserting income
(2007 – £93 million).
and withholding tax deficiencies, and associated penalties,
arising from its reclassification of an intercompany financing
arrangement in those years from debt to equity, and its consequent
recharacterisation of the amounts paid as dividends subject
to withholding tax under the US – UK treaty. All amounts due
under the financing arrangement were timely paid, with the final
payment made in April 2008.GSK Annual Report 2008 41
Report of the Directors
Financial review 2008
continued
The IRS commenced its audit of the period 2004 to 2006 in June Total results including restructuring costs produced a basic EPS
2008, and is examining the issue for these years. GSK disagrees of 88.6p compared with 94.4p in 2007. This was a 21% decline
with the IRS’s position and, in August 2008, initiated actions in at CER and a 6% decline in sterling terms. Excluding major
the United States Tax Court to contest the Statutory Notices of restructuring costs, EPS was 104.7p compared with 99.1p.
Deficiency. GSK estimates that the IRS claim for tax, penalties, and This was a 9% decline at CER but a 6% increase in sterling terms.
interest at 31st December 2008, net of federal tax relief, for 2001 The 15 percentage point currency benefit arose from the weakness
through 2003 is $864 million. GSK believes that this claim has no of Sterling against most major currencies.
merit and that no adjustment is warranted. If, contrary to GSK’s
view, the IRS prevailed in its argument before a court in respect Dividend
of the years 2001-2003, GSK would expect to have an additional The Board has declared a fourth interim dividend of 17 pence per
liability for the five year period 2004-2008 in the amount of share resulting in a dividend for the year of 57 pence, a four pence
$1,059 million in tax, penalties, and interest at 31st December increase over the dividend of 53 pence per share for 2007.
2008, net of federal tax relief for those years. In the event that The equivalent fourth interim dividend receivable by ADR holders is
the company is not able to resolve this issue with the IRS, a court 49.4564 cents per ADS based on an exchange rate of £1/$1.4546.
decision would not be expected before 2011. The ex-dividend date will be 11th February 2009, with a record
date of 13th February 2009 and a payment date of 9th April 2009.
Lower courts in Japan have upheld claims by the tax authorities
for Yen 39 billion (£177 million) relating to Japanese CFC
Critical accounting policies
legislation. The company has paid and fully provided for the full
tax but is pursuing a claim for refund to the Japanese Supreme The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance
Court. In Canada a court decision in respect of transfer pricing with IFRS, as adopted for use in the European Union, and also
in the early 1990s was completed in May 2008. GSK filed an with IFRS as issued by the IASB, following the accounting policies
appeal in June and a court date is awaited. approved by the Board and described in Note 2 to the financial
statements, ‘Accounting principles and policies’. Management
GSK continues to believe that it has made adequate provision
is required to make estimates and assumptions that affect the
for the liabilities likely to arise from open assessments. The
amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses reported in the
ultimate liability for such matters may vary from the amounts
financial statements. Actual amounts and results could differ from
provided and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation
those estimates. The critical accounting policies adopted relate to
proceedings and negotiations with the relevant tax authorities.
the following areas:
Profit for the year • Turnover
• Taxation
2008 2007 Growth • Legal and other disputes
£m £m CER% £%
• Property, plant & equipment
Total profit after taxation
for the year 4,712 5,310 (25) (11) • Goodwill
Total profit attributable to
• Other intangible assets
shareholders 4,602 5,214 (26) (12)
• Pensions and other post-employment benefits.
Basic earnings per share (pence) 88.6p 94.4p (21) (6)
Basic earnings per ADS (US$) $3.28 $3.77 Information on the judgements and estimates made in these areas
is given in Note 3 to the financial statements, ‘Key accounting
Results before major restructuring
profit after taxation for the year 5,551 5,571 (14) – judgements and estimates’.
Results before major restructuring
In respect of the Turnover accounting policy, the Group’s largest
profit attributable to shareholders 5,441 5,475 (15) (1)
business is US pharmaceuticals, and the US market has the most
Adjusted earnings per share (pence) 104.7p 99.1p (9) 6
complex arrangements for rebates, discounts and allowances.
Adjusted earnings per ADS (US$) $3.87 $3.96
The following briefly describes the nature of the arrangements in
Weighted average number
existence in the Group’s US pharmaceuticals business.
of shares (millions) 5,195 5,524
• GSK has arrangements with certain indirect customers whereby
Diluted total earnings per share (pence) 88.1p 93.7p
the customer is able to buy products from wholesalers at
Diluted total earnings per ADS (US$) $3.26 $3.75
reduced prices. A chargeback represents the difference
Diluted weighted average number
of shares (millions) 5,226 5,567 between the invoice price to the wholesaler and the indirect
customer’s contractual discounted price. Accruals for estimating
chargebacks are calculated based on the terms of each
agreement, historical experience and product growth rates.42 GSK Annual Report 2008
Report of the Directors
Financial review 2008
continued
• Customer rebates are offered to key managed care and group Chargebacks have decreased in 2008 as a result of sales of
purchasing organisations (GPO) and other direct and indirect products into US government stockpiles during 2007, which did
customers. These arrangements require the customer to achieve not arise in 2008. Managed care, Medicare Part D and GPO rebates
certain performance targets relating to value of product purchased, were flat in dollar terms, despite additional Tricare prescription
formulary status or pre-determined market shares relative to rebates. In January 2008, the National Defense Authorisation Act
competitors. Rebates given under Medicare, Part D are included in this was approved, which authorises the Department of Defense to
category. The Medicare, Part D programme was introduced in 2006 access discounted federal pricing on drugs dispensed at Tricare
and replaced the Government Medicaid subsidies for some individuals network retail pharmacies to members of the US armed forces,
with subsidised coverage provided through private prescription plans. their dependants and military retirees. Rebates given under the
The accrual for these rebates is estimated based on the specific terms US government and state programmes have risen in 2008 mainly
in each agreement, historical experience and product growth rates. due to pricing adjustments on Imitrex and Lamictal following the
introduction of generic competition, together with the inclusion of
• The US Medicaid programme is a state-administered programme
new products from the Reliant Pharmaceuticals acquisition.
providing assistance to certain poor and vulnerable patients.
In 1990, the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program was established to The total accruals for rebates, discounts, allowances and returns
reduce state and federal expenditure on prescription drugs. in the US pharmaceuticals business were as follows:
GSK participates by providing rebates to states. Accruals for
At 31st At 31st
Medicaid rebates are calculated based on the specific terms of
December December
individual state agreements using a combination of historical 2008 2007
£m £m
experience, product and population growth, anticipated price
Chargebacks 50 38
increases and the impact of contracting strategies.
Managed care, Medicare Part D
• Cash discounts are offered to customers to encourage prompt and GPO rebates 474 340
payment. These are accrued for at the time of invoicing and US government and state programmes 345 240
adjusted subsequently to reflect actual experience. Cash discounts 25 21
Customer returns 259 194
• Where there is historical experience of customer returns,
Other 50 37
GSK records an accrual for estimated sales returns by applying
Total 1,203 870
historical experience of customer returns to the amounts invoiced,
together with market related information such as stock levels at Sterling values have increased largely as a result of exchange
wholesalers, anticipated price increases and competitor activity. rate movements. In dollar terms, the 2008 provision is largely
unchanged from 2007. A monthly process is operated to monitor
A reconciliation of gross turnover to net turnover for the US
inventory levels at wholesalers for any abnormal movements.
pharmaceuticals business is as follows:
This process uses gross sales volumes, prescription volumes
2008 2007 2006 based on third party data sources and information received
£m % £m % £m % from key wholesalers. The aim of this is to maintain inventories
Gross turnover 11,602 100 11,826 100 13,131 100 at a consistent level from year to year based on the pattern of
consumption. On this basis, US pharmaceutical inventory levels at
Chargebacks 892 8 917 8 846 6
wholesalers and in other distribution channels at 31st December
Managed care, Medicare
2008 were estimated to amount to approximately one month of
Part D and GPO
turnover. This calculation uses third party information, the accuracy
rebates 764 6 727 6 912 7
of which cannot be totally verified, but is believed to be sufficiently
US government and
state programmes 554 5 481 4 507 4 reliable for this purpose.
Cash discounts 207 2 208 2 248 2
Customer returns 126 1 131 1 140 1
Prior year adjustments (38) – (73) – (69) –
Other items 203 1 162 1 194 1
Total deductions 2,708 23 2,553 22 2,778 21
Net turnover 8,894 77 9,273 78 10,353 79
Sterling values have increased by approximately 8% compared
with 2007 as a result of exchange rate movements.GSK Annual Report 2008 43
Report of the Directors
Financial position and resources
Financial position Property, plant and equipment
GSK’s business is science-based, technology-intensive and highly
2008 2007
£m £m regulated by governmental authorities. The Group allocates significant
Assets financial resources to the renewal and maintenance of its property,
Non-current assets plant and equipment to minimise risks of interruption of production
Property, plant and equipment 9,678 7,821 and to achieve compliance with regulatory standards. A number of its
Goodwill 2,101 1,370 processes use chemicals and hazardous materials.
Other intangible assets 5,869 4,456
Investments in associates and joint ventures 552 329 The total cost of the Group’s property, plant and equipment
Other investments 478 517 at 31st December 2008 was £18,987 million, with a net book
Deferred tax assets 2,760 2,196 value of £9,678 million. Of this, land and buildings represented
Derivative financial instruments 107 1 £3,756 million, plant and equipment £3,644 million and assets in
Other non-current assets 579 687 construction £2,278 million. In 2008, GSK invested £1,444 million
in new and renewal property, plant and equipment. This is mainly
Total non-current assets 22,124 17,377
related to a large number of projects for the renewal, improvement
Current assets
and expansion of facilities at various worldwide sites. Property is
Inventories 4,056 3,062
mainly held freehold. New investment is financed from Group liquid
Current tax recoverable 76 58
resources. At 31st December 2008, GSK had capital contractual
Trade and other receivables 6,265 5,495
commitments for future expenditure of £489 million and operating
Derivative financial instruments 856 475
lease commitments of £448 million. GSK believes that its facilities are
Liquid investments 391 1,153
Cash and cash equivalents 5,623 3,379 adequate for its current needs.
Assets held for sale 2 4
The Group observes stringent procedures and uses specialist skills
Total current assets 17,269 13,626 to manage environmental risks from these activities. Environmental
Total assets 39,393 31,003 issues, sometimes dating from operations now modified or
discontinued, are reported under ‘Responsibility for environment,
Liabilities health and safety’ (page 30) and in Note 44 to the financial
Current liabilities
statements, ‘Legal proceedings’.
Short-term borrowings (956) (3,504)
Trade and other payables (6,075) (4,861) Goodwill
Derivative financial instruments (752) (262)
Goodwill has increased during the year from £1,370 million at
Current tax payable (780) (826)
31st December 2007 to £2,101 million. The increase primarily reflects
Short-term provisions (1,454) (892)
the goodwill arising on the acquisition of Sirtris Pharmaceuticals
Total current liabilities (10,017) (10,345) Inc. of £242 million and that arising on the acquisition of the BMS
Non-current liabilities Egypt business of £52 million as well as a significant strengthening
Long-term borrowings (15,231) (7,067) of overseas currencies on the translation of existing foreign currency
Deferred tax provision (714) (887) goodwill balances.
Pensions and other post-employment benefits (3,039) (1,383)
Other provisions (1,645) (1,035) Other intangible assets
Derivative financial instruments (2) (8) Other intangible assets include the cost of intangibles acquired from
Other non-current liabilities (427) (368) third parties and computer software. The net book value of other
intangible assets as at 31st December 2008 was £5,869 million
Total non-current liabilities (21,058) (10,748)
(2007 – £4,456 million). The increase in 2008 reflects additions of
Total liabilities (31,075) (21,093)
£847 million and currency movements partly offset by the amortisation
Net assets 8,318 9,910
and impairment of existing intangibles. The largest element of
Equity the additions is £106 million relating to the acquisition of Sirtris
Share capital 1,415 1,503 Pharmaceuticals Inc., reflecting the existence of the technology and a
Share premium account 1,326 1,266 large patent application portfolio covering areas of sirtuin biology.
Retained earnings 4,622 6,475
Other reserves 568 359
Shareholders’ equity 7,931 9,603
Minority interests 387 307
Total equity 8,318 9,91044 GSK Annual Report 2008
Report of the Directors
Financial position and resources
continued
Investments Pensions and other post-employment benefits
GSK held investments, including associates and joint ventures, The Group accounts for pension and other post-employment
with a carrying value at 31st December 2008 of £1,030 million arrangements in accordance with IAS 19. The net deficits
(2007 – £846 million). The market value at 31st December 2008 before allowing for deferred taxation were £1,736 million
was £1,883 million (2007 – £1,517 million). The largest of these (2007 – £411 million) on pension arrangements and £1,303 million
investments is in an associate, Quest Diagnostics Inc., which (2007 – £972 million) on unfunded post-employment liabilities.
had a book value at 31st December 2008 of £463 million The pension liabilities increased following declines in asset values and
(2007 – £299 million). The investments include equity stakes a negative impact of exchange movements only partially offset by
in companies where the Group has research collaborations, which further special funding contributions to the UK pension funds
provide access to biotechnology developments of potential interest of £200 million (2007 – £285 million to the UK pension schemes);
or interests in companies that arise from business divestments. a strengthening of long-term interest rates, including an increase in
the rate used to discount UK pension liabilities from 5.75% to 6.20%
Derivative financial instruments: assets and a decrease in the estimated long term inflation rate in the UK.
GSK had both non-current and current derivative financial instruments
held at fair value of £963 million (2007 – £476 million). The increase Net debt
primarily reflects fluctuations in far forward valuations on foreign
exchange contracts hedging inter-company loans and deposits. 2008 2007
£m £m
Exchange movements are largely due to changes in Euro,
Cash, cash equivalents and
US dollar and Yen market rates.
liquid investments 6,014 4,532
Borrowings – repayable within one year (956) (3,504)
Inventories
Borrowings – repayable after one year (15,231) (7,067)
Inventory of £4,056 million has increased by £994 million during
Net debt (10,173) (6,039)
the year. The majority of this increase arises from a strengthening
of overseas currencies, with the remainder caused partly by
Net debt increased by £4,134 million primarily due to share
strategic stock building to support growth in specific products.
repurchases, further acquisition of businesses and a significant
strengthening of the foreign currencies in which group debt
Trade and other receivables
is denominated, partly offset by increased cash inflows from
Trade and other receivables of £6,265 million have increased from
operating activities.
2007 reflecting the impact of strengthening overseas currencies on
the translation of foreign currency receivables partly offset by the
Total equity
completion of non-recourse factoring arrangements in Japan and
A summary of the movements in equity is set out below.
reductions in overdue receivables in certain European markets.
2008 2007
Derivative financial instruments: liabilities £m £m
GSK held both non-current and current derivative financial Total equity at beginning of year 9,910 9,648
instruments held at fair value of £754 million (2007 – £270 Total recognised income and expense
million) relating primarily to hedging exchange on translation of for the year 4,829 6,134
currency assets on consolidation. The increase again reflects the Dividends to shareholders (2,929) (2,793)
impact from Euro, US dollar and Yen currency fluctuations. Ordinary Shares issued 62 417
Ordinary Shares purchased and held as
Trade and other payables Treasury shares – (3,537)
Trade and other payables amounting to £6,075 million have Ordinary Shares purchased and cancelled (3,706) (213)
Consideration received for shares transferred
increased from 2007 primarily reflecting the strengthening of
by ESOP Trusts 10 116
overseas currencies.
Ordinary Shares acquired by ESOP Trusts (19) (26)
Provisions Share-based incentive plans 241 237
Tax on share-based incentive plans (1) 4
The Group carried deferred tax provisions and other short-term and
Distributions to minority interests (79) (77)
non-current provisions of £3,813 million at 31st December 2008
(2007 – £2,814 million) in respect of estimated future liabilities, of Total equity at end of year 8,318 9,910
which £1,903 million related to legal and other disputes. Provision
At 31st December 2008, total equity had decreased from £9,910
has been made for legal and other disputes, indemnified disposal
million at 31st December 2007 to £8,318 million. The decrease
liabilities and the costs of restructuring programmes to the extent
arises principally from actuarial losses on defined benefit pension
that at the balance sheet date an actual or constructive obligation
plans in the year and further share repurchases, partially offset by
existed and could be reasonably estimated.
recognised income and expenses for the year.GSK Annual Report 2008 45
Report of the Directors
Financial position and resources
continued
Share purchases Contractual obligations and commitments
In 2008, the Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) Trusts acquired The following table sets out the Group’s contractual obligations and
£19 million of shares in GSK plc (2007 – £26 million). Shares are held commitments at 31st December 2008 as they fall due for payment.
by the Trusts to satisfy future exercises of options and awards under
the Group share option and award schemes. A proportion of the Total Under 1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs+
£m £m £m £m £m
shares held by the Trusts are in respect of awards where the rules of
Loans 16,051 911 703 4,600 9,837
the scheme require GSK to satisfy exercises through market purchases
Interest on loans 11,868 782 1,525 1,339 8,222
rather than the issue of new shares. The shares held by the Trusts are
Finance lease obligations 136 48 62 19 7
matched to options and awards granted.
Finance lease charges 18 5 7 4 2
At 31st December 2008, the ESOP Trusts held 129 million GSK shares Operating lease
against the future exercise of share options and share awards. The commitments 448 140 185 76 47
carrying value of £1,445 million (2007 – £1,617 million) has been Intangible assets 13,048 660 1,269 1,556 9,563
deducted from other reserves. The market value of these shares was Property, plant & equipment 489 388 100 1 –
Investments 56 46 10 – –
£1,657 million (2007 – £1,721 million).
Purchase commitments 145 70 74 1 –
GSK repurchased £3,706 million of shares for cancellation in 2008 Business combinations 227 227 – – –
(2007 – £213 million) and £nil of shares to be held as Treasury shares Pensions 597 334 132 131 –
(2007 – £3,537 million). In order to ensure that GSK has sufficient Other commitments 46 17 19 5 5
flexibility to deliver its strategic priorities the company does not expect
Total 43,129 3,628 4,086 7,732 27,683
to make any significant repurchases under the existing share buy-back
programme during 2009. The exact amount and timing of future Commitments in respect of loans and future interest payable on loans
purchases, and the extent to which repurchased shares will be held as are disclosed after taking into account the effect of derivatives. The
Treasury shares rather than being cancelled, will be determined by the Group has entered into a number of research collaborations to develop
company and is dependent on market conditions and other factors. new compounds with other pharmaceutical companies. The terms of
At 31st December 2008, GSK held 474.2 million shares as Treasury these arrangements can include up-front fees, equity investments, loans
shares (2007 – 504.2 million shares), at a cost of £6,286 million and commitments to fund specified levels of research. In addition, the
(2007 – £6,683 million), which has been deducted from Group will often agree to make further payments if future ‘milestones’
retained earnings. are achieved. As some of these agreements relate to compounds in
the early stages of development, milestone payments will continue for
There have been no purchases since 31 December 2008 under the
a number of years if the compounds move successfully through the
existing programme.
development process. Generally the closer the product is to marketing
approval the greater the possibility of success. The payments shown above
Commitments and contingent liabilities
within intangible assets represent the maximum that would be paid if all
Financial commitments are summarised in Note 39 to the financial
milestones are achieved.
statements, ‘Commitments’. Other contingent liabilities and obligations
in respect of short and long-term debt are set out in Note 31 to the A number of new commitments were made in 2008 under
financial statements, ‘Contingent liabilities’ and Note 32 to the financial licensing and other agreements, including arrangements with
statements, ‘Net debt’. Actelion Pharmaceuticals Limited, Archemix Corporation, Dynavax
Technologies Corporation, and Mpex Pharmaceuticals, Inc. The
Amounts provided for pensions and post-retirement benefits are set
commitments relating to business combinations reflect agreements to
out in Note 28 to the financial statements, ‘Pensions and other post-
acquire the issued share capital of Genelabs Technologies, Inc., Bristol
employment benefits’. Amounts provided for restructuring programmes
Myers Squibb Pakistan (Private) Limited and AZ Tika SNC, the latter
and legal, environmental and other disputes are set out in Note 29 to
being subject to clearance by the Swedish Competition Authority.
the financial statements, ‘Other provisions’.
In 2006, GSK formalised an agreement with the trustees of the UK
pension schemes to make additional contributions, in addition to the
normal contributions, over a four year period ending 31st December
2009 in order to eliminate the then funded pension deficits on an IAS 19
basis by that point. The table above shows this commitment, net of £166
million of additional contributions made in 2008, but excludes the normal
ongoing annual funding requirement of approximately £150 million. GSK
has also committed to eliminate any future deficits that may arise over a
rolling five-year period. This agreement will be reviewed during 2009. For
further information on pension obligations, see Note 28 to the financial
statements, ‘Pensions and other post-employment benefits’.46 GSK Annual Report 2008
Report of the Directors
Financial position and resources
continued
Contingent liabilities The net cash outflow from investing activities was £1,149 million, a
The following table sets out contingent liabilities, comprising discounted decrease of £1,899 million which reflected marginally lower capital
bills, performance guarantees, letters of credit and other items arising expenditure, repayments of liquid investments and a reduced cost of
in the normal course of business, and when they are expected to expire. business purchases during 2008, including Sirtris Pharmaceuticals for
£324 million, net of cash acquired of £52 million, and the Egyptian
Total Under 1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs+ business of BMS for £130 million, net of deferred consideration of
£m £m £m £m £m
£10 million. In 2007, the comparable acquisitions comprised of Reliant
Guarantees 98 73 14 – 11
Pharmaceuticals for £794 million and Domantis for £218 million, net
Other contingent liabilities 36 3 12 3 18
of cash acquired.
Total 134 76 26 3 29
Free cash flow
In the normal course of business GSK has provided various Free cash flow
indemnification guarantees in respect of business disposals in which £m
5,000
legal and other disputes have subsequently arisen. A provision
3,751 3,706
is made where a reasonable estimate can be made of the likely 4,000 4,679
outcome of the dispute and this is included in Note 29 to the
3,857
3,000
financial statements, ‘Other provisions’.
2,000
It is the Group’s policy to provide for the settlement costs of asserted
claims and environmental disputes when a reasonable estimate 1,000
may be made. Prior to this point no liability is recorded. Legal and
0
environmental costs are discussed in ‘Risk factors’ on pages 50 to 53
2008 2007
and Note 44 to the financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’. GSK
continues to believe that it has made adequate provision for the Free cash flow is the amount of cash generated by the business after
liabilities likely to arise from open taxation assessments. The ultimate meeting its obligations for interest, tax and dividends paid to minority
liability for such matters may vary significantly from amounts provided interests, and after capital expenditure on non-current tangible and
and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation proceedings and intangible assets. It was £4,679 million, an increase of 21% over 2007,
negotiations with the relevant tax authorities. This is discussed further principally reflecting the higher operating profit before non-cash charges,
in Note 14 to the financial statements, ‘Taxation’. primarily from the major restructuring programmes, and working capital
improvements, partly offset by higher levels of interest paid as a result of
Cash flow the significant debt issuances during the year of US $9 billion under the
A summary of the consolidated cash flow is set out below. US shelf registration and £0.7 billion under the EMTN programme.
Free cash flow is used by GSK’s management for planning and reporting
2008 2007
£m £m purposes and in discussions with and presentations to investment analysts
Net cash inflow from operating activities 7,205 6,161 and rating agencies. GSK’s free cash flow measure is not defined in IFRS.
Net cash outflow from investing activities (1,149) (3,048) This measure may not be directly comparable with similarly described
Net cash outflow from financing activities (4,908) (1,702) measures used by other companies. A reconciliation of net cash inflow
Increase/(decrease) in cash and bank overdrafts 1,148 1,411 from operating activities, which is the closest equivalent IFRS measure, to
free cash flow is shown below.
Exchange adjustments 1,103 48
Cash and bank overdrafts at beginning of year 3,221 1,762
Reconciliation of free cash flow
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year 5,472 3,221
2008 2007
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year £m £m
comprise: Net cash inflow from operating activities 7,205 6,161
Purchase of non-current tangible assets (1,437) (1,516)
Cash and cash equivalents 5,623 3,379
Purchase of non-current intangible assets (632) (627)
Overdrafts (151) (158)
Disposal of non-current tangible fixed assets 20 35
5,472 3,221 Interest paid (730) (378)
The net cash inflow from operating activities after taxation paid was Interest received 320 247
£7,205 million, an increase of £1,044 million over 2007 reflecting an Dividends received from joint ventures and
associated undertaking 12 12
unchanged profit before tax (excluding the impact of the significant
Dividends paid to minority interests (79) (77)
increase in non-cash charges made in the year, primarily from the major
restructuring programmes), together with improved working capital Free cash flow 4,679 3,857
management.GSK Annual Report 2008 47
Report of the Directors
Financial position and resources
continued
Movements in net debt Payment policies
2008 2007 Group companies are responsible for monitoring and managing
£m £m their working capital. The terms of sales collections and supplier
Net debt at beginning of year (6,039) (2,450) payments reflect local commercial practice.
Increase in cash and bank overdrafts 1,148 1,411
Cash (inflow)/outflow from liquid investments (905) 39 In the UK, the company and each of its UK subsidiaries have
Net increase in long-term loans (5,523) (3,276) policies to ensure that suppliers are paid on time. In particular,
Net repayment of/(increase in) short-term loans 3,059 (1,632) the UK companies seek:
Exchange movements (1,918) (88)
• to settle terms of payment with suppliers when agreeing the
Other movements 5 (43)
terms of the transaction
Net debt at end of year (10,173) (6,039)
• to ensure that suppliers are made aware of the agreed terms
Investment appraisal of payment
GSK has a formal process for assessing potential investment
• to abide by the terms of payment.
proposals in order to ensure decisions are aligned with the
Group’s overall strategy. This process includes an analysis of The policy permits arrangements for accelerated payment to
the impact of the project on earnings, its return on invested small suppliers.
capital and an assessment of the return based on discounted
Payment performance
cash flows. The discount rate used to perform financial analysis
At 31st December 2008, the average number of days’ payable
is decided internally, to allow determination of the extent to
outstanding represented by trade payables of the parent company
which investments cover the Group’s cost of capital. For specific
was nil (2007 – nil) and in respect of the company and its UK
investments the discount rate may be adjusted to take into
subsidiaries in aggregate was 20 days (2007 – 21 days).
account country or other risk weightings.
Treasury policies
Capital expenditure and financial investment
Cash payments for tangible and intangible fixed assets
GSK reports in Sterling and pays dividends out of Sterling profits.
amounted to £2,069 million (2007 – £2,143 million;
The role of Corporate Treasury is to manage and monitor our
2006 - £1,590 million). Disposals realised £191 million
external and internal funding requirements and financial risks
(2007 – £44 million; 2006 - £218 million). Cash payments to
in support of our corporate objectives. Treasury activities are
acquire equity investments of £87 million (2007 – £186 million;
governed by policies and procedures approved by the Board of
2006 - £57 million) were made in the year and sales of equity
Directors, most recently on 25th September 2008.
investments realised £42 million (2007 – £45 million;
A Treasury Management Group (TMG) chaired by our Chief
2006 - £32 million).
Financial Officer, meets on a monthly basis to review treasury
Future cash flow activities. Its members receive management information relating
The Group expects that future operating cash flow will be sufficient to treasury activities.
to fund its operating and debt service costs, to satisfy normal levels
Capital management
of capital expenditure, to meet obligations under existing licensing
Our operations are global, primarily through subsidiary companies
agreements, to meet the expenditure arising from the major
established in the markets in which we trade. With significant
restructuring programmes (the precise timing of which is uncertain)
levels of patent protection, our products compete largely on
outlined in Note 7 to the financial statements, ‘Major restructuring
product efficacy rather than on price. Selling margins are sufficient
programmes’ and to meet other routine outflows including tax and
to cover normal operating costs and our operating subsidiaries are
dividends, subject to the ‘Risk factors’ discussed on pages 50 to 53.
generally cash generative.
GSK may from time to time have additional demands for finance,
such as for acquisitions. It has access to other sources of liquidity Operating cash flow is used to fund investment in research and
from short and long-term capital markets and banks and other development of new products. It is also used to make the routine
financial institutions, in addition to the cash flow from operations, outflows of capital expenditure, tax, dividends, repayment of
for such needs. maturing debt and, to the extent determined by the Board,
share repurchases.
Our policy is to borrow centrally using a variety of capital
market issues and borrowing facilities to meet anticipated
funding requirements.48 GSK Annual Report 2008
Report of the Directors
Financial position and resources
continued
These borrowings, together with cash generated from operations, At 31st December 2008, we had centrally available cash reserves
are on-lent, contributed as equity to certain subsidiaries or used to of £4.3 billion and committed undrawn bank facilities of
pay dividends, make acquisitions or fund share buy-backs. $3.9 billion. As at that date we had short-term debt and bank
overdrafts and loans repayable within one year of £1.0 billion.
For further details of GSK’s share buy-back programme, please see
Note 33, ‘Share capital and share premium account’. We manage our net borrowing requirements through a portfolio
of long-term borrowings, including bonds, together with short-
Liquidity term finance under a $10 billion commercial paper programme.
As at 31st December 2008, our cash and liquid investments were During the year, our committed undrawn bank facilities reduced
held as follows: from $5 billion to $3.9 billion as a consequence of Royal Bank of
Scotland’s acquisition of ABN AMRO and the collapse of Lehman
2008 2007
Brothers. The facilities were renewed in October 2008. We
£m £m
consider this level of committed facilities to be adequate given our
Bank balances and deposits 3,778 1,431
Treasuries and treasury-repo only money current cash holdings. For further information on these facilities,
market funds 1,852 1,713 please refer to Note 32 to the financial statements, ‘Net debt’. We
Corporate debt instruments 75 1,170 also benefit from strong positive cash flow from operating units.
Government securities 309 218
We have a European Medium Term Note programme of
6,014 4,532 £10 billion. At 31st December 2008, we had £7.9 billion of
notes in issue under this programme. We also have a US shelf
£4.3 billion of this amount is managed centrally and available
registration statement. At 31st December 2008, we had
within three months. We had net debt at 31st December 2008 of
$11.1 billion (£7.7 billion) of notes in issue under this programme.
£10.2 billion. The table below summarises cash and gross debt.
The TMG monitors the cash flow forecast on a monthly basis.
2008 2007
The long-term borrowings mature at dates between 2010 and
£m £m
2042. Our long-term debt ratings have remained stable since
Cash and liquid investments 6,014 4,532
February 2008. Currently we are rated A+ stable outlook by
Gross debt – fixed (13,814) (6,254)
– floating (2,373) (4,317) Standard and Poor’s and A1 negative outlook by Moody’s. Our
short-term debt ratings are A-1 and P-1 with Standard and Poor’s
Net debt (10,173) (6,039)
and Moody’s respectively.
The maturity profile of gross debt is shown in the table below:
MATURITY PROFILE OF GROSS DEBT
£m equivalent
3,500
3,000
2,500
2,000
1,500
1,000
500
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2025 2033 2034 2038 2039 2042
• • • •
USD EUR GBP OtherGSK Annual Report 2008 49
Report of the Directors
Financial position and resources
continued
Treasury operations We use an interest rate swap to redenominate one of our external
borrowings into the interest rate coupon required by GSK. The
The objective of treasury activity is to manage the post-tax net
duration of this swap matches the duration of the principal
cost or income of financial operations to the benefit of earnings.
instrument. Interest rate derivative instruments are accounted for
Corporate Treasury does not operate as a profit centre. We use a
as fair value or cash flow hedges of the relevant assets or liabilities.
variety of financial instruments, including derivatives, to finance
our operations and to manage market risks from those operations. Counterparty risk management
Our policy on counterparty risk management is to work with a
Derivatives, principally comprising forward foreign currency
select group of relationship banks. Global counterparty limits are
contracts, interest rate and currency swaps, are used to swap
assigned to each of GSK’s banking and investment counterparties
borrowings and liquid assets into our required currencies and
based on long-term credit ratings from Moody’s and Standard
to manage exposure to funding risks from changes in foreign
and Poor’s. Corporate Treasury’s usage of these limits is monitored
exchange and interest rates.
daily by a Corporate Compliance Officer (CCO) independent of
We do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for
Corporate Treasury. Any breach of these limits is reported to the
speculative purposes. Our treasury policies specifically prohibit
CFO immediately. The CCO also monitors the credit rating of
such activity. All transactions in financial instruments are
these counterparties and, when changes in ratings occur, notifies
undertaken to manage the risks arising from underlying business
Corporate Treasury so the appropriate amendment can be made
activities, not for speculation.
to limits. A full counterparty analysis is presented to the TMG
annually for approval.
Foreign exchange management
Foreign currency transaction exposure arising on internal and Since July 2007, we have tightened our criteria for holding cash
external trade flows is not hedged. The exposure of overseas equivalents and liquid investments in response to the credit crisis.
operating subsidiaries to transaction risk is minimised by matching
On 15th September 2008, Lehman Brothers filed for Chapter
local currency income with local currency costs.
11 proceedings in the USA and appointed administrators in the
For this purpose, our internal trading transactions are matched UK. Although Lehman was one of GSK’s relationship banks,
centrally and we manage intercompany payment terms to reduce our exposure to Lehman at the time of the collapse was limited
risk. Exceptional foreign currency cash flows are hedged selectively to immaterial costs on foreign exchange contracts and the
under the management of Corporate Treasury. termination of the Quest Collar referred to in more detail
in Note 20 to the financial statements, ‘Investments in associates
We manage the short-term cash surpluses or borrowing
and joint ventures’.
requirements of subsidiary companies centrally using forward
Financial assets and liabilities
contracts to hedge future repayments back into the
originating currency.
An analysis of net debt is given in Note 32 to the financial
We seek to denominate borrowings in the currencies of our statements, ‘Net debt’. An analysis of financial assets and liabilities
principal assets and cash flows. These are primarily denominated at carrying value and fair value is given in Note 41 to the financial
in US dollars, Euros and Sterling. Certain borrowings are swapped statements, ‘Financial instruments and related disclosures’.
into other currencies as required.
We continue to benefit from strong positive cash flow from
Borrowings denominated in, or swapped into, foreign currencies operating activities. Our net debt would have decreased in the
that match investments in our overseas assets are treated as a hedge year to 31st December 2008, but for our purchase of our
against the relevant assets. Forward contracts are also used in major own shares in the market of £3.7 billion and acquisitions of
currencies to reduce our exposure to our investment in overseas approximately £0.5 billion.
Group assets (see ‘Net Investment Hedges’ section of Note 41 for
The financial assets and liabilities at 31st December 2008 are
further details). The TMG review the ratio of borrowings to assets
representative of our treasury policies and strategies applied since
for major currencies.
July 2007. GSK raised £8.0 billion in the Capital Markets between
December 2007 and May 2008 of which £2.4 billion was raised in
Interest rate risk management
2007. We do not expect to make any significant share repurchases
The policy on interest rate risk management requires the minimum
in 2009.
amount of net borrowings at fixed rates to increase with the ratio
of forecast interest payable to trading profit. The fixed to floating
ratio is reviewed monthly by the TMG.50 GSK Annual Report 2008
Report of the Directors
Risk factors
Risk factors Generic drug manufacturers are seeking to market generic versions
of many of the Group’s most important products, prior to the
There are risks and uncertainties relevant to the Group’s business,
expiration of the Group’s patents, and have exhibited a readiness
financial condition and results of operations that may affect future
to do so for other products in the future. The US launch of generic
performance. These include R&D, anticipated sales growth and
products competing with Lamictal, Imitrex, Paxil CR, Requip and
expected earnings. The factors below are among those that the
Wellbutrin XL had a significant impact on the Group’s overall
Group thinks could cause its actual results to differ materially
turnover and earnings for 2008.
from expected and historical results. There are other risks and
Potential changes in intellectual property laws and regulations
uncertainties not currently known to the Group or which are
Proposals to change existing patent and data exclusivity laws
deemed immaterial. The management and mitigation of risk is
and regulations in major markets in which the Group sells its
discussed on page 72 ‘Corporate Governance’.
products are a continuing feature of the political process in those
The major risks that might affect GSK’s business are:
countries. These include proposals that could have the effect of
making prosecution of patents for new products more difficult and
Risk that R&D will not deliver commercially successful
time-consuming or adversely affecting the exclusivity period for
new products
the Group’s products, including biological products. Should such
Continued development of commercially viable new products as well
proposals be enacted they could have an adverse impact on the
as the development of additional uses for existing products is critical
Group’s future sales and results of operations.
to the Group’s ability to replace sales of older products that decline
upon expiration of exclusive rights, and to increase overall sales. Weakness of intellectual property protection in
Developing new products is a costly, lengthy and uncertain process. certain countries
In some of the countries in which the Group operates, patent
A new product candidate can fail at any stage of the process, and
protection may be significantly weaker than in the USA or the
one or more late-stage product candidates could fail to receive
European Union. In an effort to control public health crises, some
regulatory approval.
developing countries, such as South Africa, Thailand and Brazil,
New product candidates may appear promising in development but, have considered plans for substantial reductions in the scope
after significant investment, fail to reach the market or have only limited of patent protection for pharmaceutical products. In particular,
commercial success. This, for example, could be as a result of efficacy these countries could facilitate competition within their markets
or safety concerns, inability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, from generic manufacturers who would otherwise be unable to
difficulty or excessive costs to manufacture, erosion of patent term as introduce competing products for a number of years.
a result of a lengthy development period, infringement of patents or
Any loss of patent protection, including abrogation of patent
other intellectual property rights of others or inability to differentiate the
rights or compulsory licensing, is likely to affect adversely the
product adequately from those with which it competes.
Group’s operating results in those national markets but is not
Health authorities such as the US FDA, the European Medicines expected to be material to the Group overall. Absence of adequate
Agency and the Japan Pharmaceuticals and Medicines Device patent protection could limit the opportunity to look to such
Agency have increased their focus on safety when assessing the markets for future sales growth.
benefit/risk balance of drugs. Payers are also becoming increasingly
Risk of substantial adverse outcome of litigation
more demanding with regard to the incremental benefit required
and government investigations
to gain reimbursement and secure appropriate pricing.
See Note 44 to the financial statements, ’Legal proceedings’,
Risk of unplanned loss of patents
for a discussion of proceedings and governmental investigations
Patent infringement litigation – involving matters which if proven could give rise to civil and/
The Group’s patents, in common with all patents, can be challenged or criminal liabilities – in which the Group is currently involved.
at any time. Efforts by generic manufacturers may involve challenges Unfavourable resolution of these and similar future proceedings or
to the validity or enforceability of a patent or assertions that investigations may have a material adverse effect on the Group’s
their generic product does not infringe the Group’s patents. If financial condition and results of operations. The Group has
GSK is not successful in defending an attack on its patents and made material provisions in 2006, 2007 and 2008 related to legal
maintaining exclusive rights to market one or more of its major proceedings and investigations which reduced its earnings.
products, particularly in the USA where the Group has its highest
The Group may also make additional significant provisions related
turnover and margins, the Group’s turnover and margins would
to legal proceedings and investigations in the future, which would
be adversely affected. See Note 44 to the financial statements,
reduce its earnings. In many cases the practice of the plaintiff bar is to
‘Legal proceedings’, for a discussion of patent-related proceedings
claim damages in amounts that bear no relationship to the underlying
in which the Group is involved and page 18 for a description of
harm. Accordingly it is potentially misleading to quantify the potential
resolution of prior proceedings which affect the dates on which
exposure to claims, proceedings and investigations of the type
generic versions of the Group’s products may be introduced.
described in Note 44 to the financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’.GSK Annual Report 2008 51
Report of the Directors
Risk factors
continued
Recent insurance loss experience, including pharmaceutical In the USA, for example, the Group is responding to federal
product liability exposures, has increased the cost of, and and state governmental investigations into pricing, marketing
narrowed the coverage afforded by, insurance for pharmaceutical and reimbursement of its prescription drug products. These
companies generally, including the Group. investigations could result in related restitution or civil false claims
act litigation on behalf of the federal or state governments, as well
In order to contain insurance costs in recent years the Group has
as related proceedings initiated against the Group by or on behalf
continued to adjust its coverage profile, accepting a greater degree
of consumers and private payers. Such proceedings may result in
of un-insured exposure. In addition, where claims are made under
trebling of damages awarded or fines in respect of each violation of
insurance policies, insurers may reserve the right to deny coverage
law. Criminal proceedings may also be initiated against the Group.
on various grounds. If denial of coverage is ultimately upheld on
these claims, this could result in material additional charges.
Risks of competition, price controls and limitations
Product liability litigation on sales
Pre-clinical and clinical trials are conducted during the Third party competition
development of potential products to determine the safety and The Group operates in highly competitive markets. In the
efficacy of products for use by humans following approval by pharmaceuticals business, it faces competition both from proprietary
regulatory bodies. Notwithstanding these efforts, when drugs and products of large international manufacturers and producers of
vaccines are introduced into the marketplace, unanticipated side generic pharmaceuticals. Significant product innovations, technical
effects may become evident. advances or the intensification of price competition by competitors
could adversely affect the Group’s operating results. The Group
In other instances third parties may perform analyses of published
cannot predict the timing or impact of competitive products or
clinical trial results which, although not necessarily accurate or
their potential impact on sales of the Group’s products. Continued
meaningful, may raise questions regarding safety of pharmaceutical
consolidation in the pharmaceutical industry could adversely affect
products which may be publicised by the media and may result
the Group’s competitive position, while continued consolidation
in product liability claims. The Group is currently a defendant in a
among the Group’s customers may increase pricing pressures.
number of product liability lawsuits, including class actions, that
involve substantial claims for damages related to the Group’s The Group had eight products with over £500 million in annual
pharmaceutical products. Litigation, particularly in the USA, is global sales in 2008. Among these products are Augmentin IR, Imitrex
inherently unpredictable and excessive verdicts that are not justified by and Lamictal for which there is generic competition, and Avandia
the evidence can occur. Class actions that sweep together all persons and Valtrex, with respect to which the Group’s intellectual property
who were prescribed the Group’s products can inflate the potential rights in the USA are currently the subject of litigation or settlement
liability by the force of numbers. Claims for pain and suffering and agreements related to such litigation.
punitive damages are frequently asserted in product liability actions
If any of the Group’s major products were to become subject to a
and, if allowed, can represent potentially open-ended exposure.
problem such as unplanned loss of patent protection, unexpected
Anti-trust litigation side effects, regulatory proceedings, publicity affecting doctor or
In the USA it has become increasingly common that following patient confidence or pressure from competitive products, or if a
publicity around government investigations or an adverse outcome new, more effective treatment should be introduced, the adverse
in prosecution of patent infringement actions, the defendants and impact on the Group’s revenues and operating results could be
direct and indirect purchasers and other payers initiate anti-trust significant. In particular, the Group faces intense competition
actions as well. Claims by direct and indirect purchasers and other from manufacturers of generic pharmaceutical products in all
payers are typically filed as class actions. The relief sought may of its major markets. Generic products often enter the market
include treble damages and restitution claims. Damages in adverse upon expiration of patents or data exclusivity periods for the
anti-trust verdicts are subject to automatic trebling in the USA. Group’s products. Introduction of generic products typically leads
Similarly, anti-trust claims may be brought following settlement to a dramatic loss of sales and reduces the Group’s revenues
of patent litigation, alleging that such settlements are anti- and margins for its proprietary products. The expiration dates
competitive and in violation of anti-trust laws. for patents for the Group’s major products and a description of
litigation settlements which may affect the dates on which generic
Sales, marketing and regulation
versions of the Group’s products may be introduced are set out on
The Group operates globally in complex legal and regulatory
page 18. Legal proceedings involving patent challenges are set out
environments that often vary among jurisdictions. The failure
in Note 44 to the financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’.
to comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations in these
jurisdictions may result in civil and criminal legal proceedings. Governmental and payer controls
As those rules and regulations change or as governmental Pharmaceutical products are subject to price controls or pressures
interpretation of those rules and regulations evolve, prior conduct and other restrictions in many markets, including Japan, Germany,
may be called into question. Spain, France and Italy. Some governments intervene directly in
setting prices.52 GSK Annual Report 2008
Report of the Directors
Risk factors
continued
In addition, in some markets major purchasers of pharmaceutical Risk of interruption of product supply
products (whether governmental agencies or private health care The manufacture of pharmaceutical products and their constituent
providers) have the economic power to exert substantial pressure materials requires compliance with good manufacturing practice
on prices or the terms of access to formularies. regulations. The Group’s manufacturing sites are subject to review
and approval by the FDA and other regulatory agencies. Compliance
The Group cannot predict whether existing controls, pressures or
failure by suppliers of key services and materials or the Group’s own
restrictions will increase or new controls, pressures or restrictions
manufacturing facilities could lead to product recalls and seizures,
will be introduced that will reduce the Group’s margins or affect
interruption of production and delays in the approvals of new products
adversely its ability to introduce new products profitably.
pending resolution of manufacturing issues. Non-compliance can also
For example, in the USA, where the Group has its highest margins result in fines and disgorgement of profits.
and the most sales for any country, pricing pressures could
Any interruption of supply or fines or disgorgement remedy could
significantly increase as experience develops under the outpatient
materially and adversely affect the Group’s financial results. For
pharmaceutical programme covering Medicare beneficiaries that
example, during resolution of FDA observations of deficiencies in
began in 2006. The private insurers through which coverage is
manufacturing practices at the Group’s Cidra, Puerto Rico facility, as
offered, through their enormous purchasing power under the
referred to in Note 44 to the financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’,
programme, could demand discounts that may implicitly create
supplies of certain products manufactured at that site were curtailed or
price controls on prescription drugs.
constricted which had an adverse impact on sales in 2005 and 2006.
Changes to the enabling legislation could afford the US government
Although the Group undertakes business continuity planning,
a direct role in negotiating prices under the Medicare programme.
single sourcing for certain components, bulk active materials
Additionally, a number of states have proposed or implemented
and finished products creates a risk of failure of supply in the
various schemes to control prices for their own senior citizens’
event of regulatory non-compliance or physical disruption at the
programmes, including importation from other countries and bulk
manufacturing sites.
purchases of drugs. The growth in the number of patients covered
through large managed care institutions in the USA, which has
Risk from concentration of sales to wholesalers
increased with implementation of the Medicare benefit, also increases
In the USA, in line with other pharmaceutical companies, the Group
pricing pressures on the Group’s products. These trends may adversely
sells its products through a small number of wholesalers in addition
affect the Group’s revenues and margins from sales in the USA.
to hospitals, pharmacies, physicians and other groups. Sales to
Regulatory controls the three largest wholesalers amounted to approximately 84%
The Group must comply with a broad range of regulatory controls on of the Group’s US pharmaceutical sales. At 31st December 2008
the testing, approval, manufacturing and marketing of many of its the Group had trade receivables due from these three wholesalers
pharmaceutical and consumer healthcare products, particularly in the totalling £1,067 million (31st December 2007 – £915 million). The
USA and countries of the European Union, that affect not only the Group is exposed to a concentration of credit risk in respect of these
cost of product development but also the time required to reach the wholesalers such that, if one or more of them is affected by financial
market and the uncertainty of successfully doing so. Health authorities difficulty, it could materially and adversely affect the Group’s
have increased their focus on safety when assessing the benefit risk/ financial results.
balance of drugs in the context of not only initial product approval but
also in the context of approval of additional indications and review of Reliance on information technology
information regarding marketed products. Stricter regulatory controls The Group is increasingly dependent on information technology
also heighten the risk of changes in product profile or withdrawal systems, including Internet-based systems, for internal
by regulators on the basis of post-approval concerns over product communication as well as communication with customers and
safety, which could reduce revenues and can result in product recalls suppliers. Any significant disruption of these systems, whether due
and product liability lawsuits. There is also greater regulatory scrutiny, to computer viruses or other outside incursions, could materially
especially in the USA, on advertising and promotion and in particular and adversely affect the Group’s operations.
on direct-to-consumer advertising.
Global political and economic conditions
In addition, in some cases the Group may voluntarily cease
As described on page 33, many of the world’s largest economies,
marketing a product or face declining sales based on concerns
including the major markets in which the Group operates, and
about efficacy or safety (for example, declines in sales of Avandia in
financial institutions currently face extreme financial difficulty,
2007 following publicity around questions regarding risks associated
including a decline in asset prices, liquidity problems and limited
with the product), whether or not scientifically justified, even in the
availability of credit. It is uncertain how long this crisis will last, but
absence of regulatory action. The development of the post-approval
many countries are concerned that their economies may enter a
adverse event profile for a product or the product class may have a
deep and prolonged recession.
major impact on the marketing and sale of the product.GSK Annual Report 2008 53
Report of the Directors
Risk factors
continued
Such a decline in economic activity may have a material adverse Failure to manage properly the environmental risks could result in
effect on the Group’s sales, results of operations, financial additional remedial costs that could materially and adversely affect the
condition and ability to raise capital. Some of the Group’s Group’s operations. See Note 44 to the financial statements, ‘Legal
businesses, including Consumer Healthcare, may be particularly proceedings’, for a discussion of environmental-related proceedings in
sensitive to declines in consumer spending. In addition, the which the Group is involved.
financial crisis may result in a lower return on the Group’s financial
Accounting standards
investments and may cause the value of the Group’s investments
New or revised accounting standards, rules and interpretations
in its pension plans to decrease, requiring the Group to increase its
circulated from time to time by an international standard setting board
funding of those pension plans.
could result in changes to the recognition of income and expense
The Group conducts a substantial portion of its operations outside that may adversely impact the Group’s reported financial results.
the UK. The Group’s management of foreign exchange rates is International standard changes in the market valuation of certain
discussed in Business Review, ‘Foreign exchange management’ financial instruments are reflected in the Group’s reported results
(see page 49). Fluctuations in exchange rates between Sterling before those gains or losses are actually realised and could have a
and other currencies, especially the US dollar, the Euro and the significant impact on the income statement in any given period.
Japanese Yen, could materially affect the Group’s financial results.
Accounting for deferred taxation on inter-company inventory
The Group has no control over changes in inflation and interest may give rise to volatility depending upon the ownership of the
rates, foreign currency exchange rates and controls or other inventory. Regulators regularly review the financial statements of
economic factors affecting its businesses or the possibility of listed companies for compliance with accounting and regulatory
political unrest, legal and regulatory changes or nationalisation in requirements.
jurisdictions in which the Group operates. The Group believes that it complies with the appropriate regulatory
requirements concerning its financial statements and disclosures.
Taxation
However, other companies have experienced investigations
The effective tax rate on the Group’s earnings benefits from the fact
into potential non-compliance with accounting and disclosure
that a portion of its earnings is taxed at more favourable rates in some
requirements that have resulted in restatements of previously
jurisdictions outside the UK. Changes in tax laws or in their application
reported results and sometimes significant penalties.
with respect to matters such as transfer pricing, foreign dividends,
controlled companies or a restriction in tax relief allowed on the Human resources
interest on intra-Group debt, could increase the Group’s effective tax The Group has approximately 99,000 employees globally and is
rate and adversely affect its financial results. The Group has open issues subject to laws and regulations concerning its employees – ranging
with the revenue authorities in the USA, Japan and Canada. These from discrimination and harassment to personal privacy to labour
matters are discussed in Note 14 to the financial statements, ‘Taxation’. relations – that vary significantly from jurisdiction to jurisdiction.
The Group faces intense competition for qualified individuals from
Disruption from pandemic influenza
other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, universities,
In the event of pandemic influenza, the Group could be subject to
governmental entities and other research institutions. Failure to
disruption from a range of factors. National governments may be
continue to recruit and retain the right people and maintain a
more willing to abrogate intellectual property rights for medicines
culture of compliance may have a significant adverse effect.
that might otherwise be in short supply.
Failure of third party providers
In a country afflicted by pandemic ‘flu, there would be a risk that
employees and their families will be affected with the consequence Unaffiliated third-party suppliers provide a number of goods and
that sales and distribution and manufacturing activities could services to the Group’s operations. Many of these services, for
be shut down and supply continuity – for active ingredients and example services provided by clinical research organizations to support
finished goods – affected. development of key products, are very important to the operations of
the Group’s businesses. Materials provided by third-party suppliers are
Environmental liabilities necessary for the commercial production of our products, including
The environmental laws of various jurisdictions impose actual and speciality chemicals, commodities and components necessary for
potential obligations on the Group to remediate contaminated sites. the manufacture, fill-finish and packaging of many of the Group’s
The Group has also been identified as a potentially responsible party pharmaceutical and consumer health products. While the Group does
under the US Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation not believe that any of these third-party relationships are individually
and Liability Act at a number of sites for remediation costs relating to significant in the context of the overall Group, the failure of any third-
the Group’s use or ownership of such sites. party supplier to fulfil its contractual obligations in a timely manner
may result in delays or service interruptions which could constrain the
sales of the Group’s products.54 GSK Annual Report 2008
Report of the Directors
Financial review 2007
In accordance with US SEC disclosure requirements, the following In sterling terms total pharmaceutical turnover decreased 4%, four
discussion compares results for the year to 31st December 2007 percentage points less than CER, principally due to the strength of
with the results for the year to 31st December 2006. Sterling against the US dollar.
In 2008, the Group realigned the regional reporting structure
Pharmaceutical turnover by therapeutic area
within the Pharmaceuticals business and reallocated entities and
expenses between the Pharmaceuticals and Consumer Healthcare Turnover in 2007 was in line with 2006 as high-value growth
businesses. Comparative information for 2007 and 2006 below products were offset by lower Avandia sales and US generic
has been restated on a consistent basis. See Note 2 to the financial competition to Coreg IR, Flonase, Wellbutrin XL and Zofran.
statements, ‘Accounting principles and policies. The high-value growth products included Seretide/Advair, vaccines,
Lamictal, Valtrex, Requip, Avodart and Boniva.
Exchange
Respiratory
The currencies that most influence the Group’s results are the US
We continued to be a global leader in respiratory pharmaceuticals
dollar, the Euro and the Japanese Yen.
with sales of our three key products, Seretide/Advair, Flixotide/
In 2007, the US dollar fell by 2% against the pound, to $1.99 at Flovent and Serevent amounting to £4.4 billion, up 8%.
the year-end. The year-end rates for the Euro strengthened by 8% Total sales of Seretide/Advair, for asthma and COPD, rose 10% to
£3.5 billion. In the USA, sales grew 9% to £1.9 billion. In Europe
and the Japanese yen by 5% against Sterling.
sales grew 8.1% to £1.2 billion and in Rest of World markets sales
World market – pharmaceuticals grew 24% to £393 million, enhanced by its launch in Japan
in June.
Global pharmaceutical sales in 2007 were £329 billion compared
with £328 billion in 2006. CNS
CNS sales decreased 2% to £3.3 billion. Sales decreased in the
World market by Value % of Growth USA and Europe, reflecting generic competition to Seroxat/Paxil in
geographic region £bn total £%
both regions. Rest of World sales grew 6% which included
USA 140.8 43 (3) 4% growth in Paxil in Japan. Total Seroxat/Paxil sales declined
Europe 97.6 30 5 6% to £553 million. Total Wellbutrin sales declined 37% to
Rest of World 90.4 27 1
£529 million, owing to US generic competition to Wellbutrin SR/IR
Total 328.8 100 – and Wellbutrin XL 300mg tablet.
The US market has decreased by 3%, but it still represents 43% Sales of Lamictal, for the treatment of epilepsy and bipolar disorder,
of the global prescription pharmaceutical market compared with grew 18% to £1.1 billion, driven by sales in the USA which were up
30% a decade ago. 26% to £892 million, benefiting from its new indication.
At 30th September 2007, GSK held second position in the world Sales of Requip, for Parkinson’s disease and Restless Legs
pharmaceutical market with a market share of 5.9%, behind Pfizer Syndrome (RLS), grew 36% to £346 million.
with a market share of 7%. GSK had four of the world’s top 60
Anti-virals
pharmaceutical products. These were Avandia, Lamictal, Seretide/
Total sales of HIV products were £1.4 billion, down 1%.
Advair and Valtrex.
Competition to older products, Combivir down 10% to £455
World market – Value % of Growth million and Epivir down 20% to £156 million, was largely offset
top six therapeutic classes £bn total £% by strong sales growth of new products Epzicom/Kivexa, which
Central nervous system 54.4 17 1 grew 39% to £324 million and Lexiva/Agenerase, up 13% to
Cardiovascular 50.7 15 (6) £141 million.
Alimentary tract and metabolic 39.7 12 (1)
Sales of Valtrex, for herpes, rose 18% to £934 million, with US
Antineoplastic/Immunomodulatory 35.6 11 8
sales up 20% to £668 million driven by increased use of the
Anti-infectives (bacterial, 32.9 10 (1)
product for prevention of disease transmission. Sales in Europe
viral and fungal) excluding
grew 9% to £115 million and in Rest of World grew 14% to
vaccines
£151 million. Sales of Relenza, an antiviral treatment for ‘flu, were
Respiratory 22.1 7 2
£262 million (2006 – £91 million), driven primarily by one-off
government orders for stockpiling against a possible ‘flu pandemic.
(Note: data based on 12 months to 30th September 2007.)
Pharmaceutical turnover Metabolic
Total pharmaceutical turnover in 2007 was £19,163 million In 2007, sales of the Avandia product group, for type 2 diabetes,
compared with £20,013 million in 2006, in line with 2006 declined 22% to £1.2 billion. In the USA sales fell 29% to £780
turnover at CER. million, with fourth quarter sales down 55% to £130 million.GSK Annual Report 2008 55
Report of the Directors
Financial review 2007
continued
Pharmaceutical turnover by therapeutic area 2007 (restated)
Total USA Europe Rest of World
Therapeutic area/ % of 2007 2006 Growth 2007 Growth 2007 Growth 2007 Growth
major products total £m £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Respiratory 26 5,032 4,991 5 1 2,377 4 (3) 1,740 4 4 915 10 6
Seretide/Advair 3,499 3,313 10 6 1,891 9 1 1,215 8 9 393 24 21
Flixotide/Flovent 621 659 (1) (6) 284 3 (5) 158 (7) (7) 179 (3) (7)
Serevent 269 291 (4) (8) 74 (7) (14) 134 (5) (4) 61 - (6)
Veramyst 21 - - - 20 - - - - - 1 - -
Flixonase/Flonase 199 309 (34) (36) 72 (60) (61) 49 - - 78 5 3
Anti-virals 16 3,027 2,826 13 7 1,494 19 10 846 - 1 687 15 9
HIV 1,442 1,515 (1) (5) 637 (2) (9) 595 (3) (3) 210 9 4
Epzicom/Kivexa 324 241 39 34 142 23 14 149 54 54 33 74 74
Combivir 455 528 (10) (14) 195 (11) (18) 181 (15) (15) 79 6 1
Trizivir 233 268 (9) (13) 120 (8) (15) 98 (14) (13) 15 14 7
Agenerase, Lexiva 141 131 13 8 78 14 5 53 10 10 10 22 11
Epivir 156 202 (20) (23) 53 (16) (23) 64 (27) (27) 39 (11) (13)
Ziagen 109 117 (3) (7) 45 2 (6) 36 (10) (10) 28 (3) (3)
Valtrex 934 845 18 11 668 20 11 115 9 10 151 14 8
Zeffix 168 162 8 4 13 8 - 23 - - 132 10 5
Relenza 262 91 >100 >100 131 - - 76 21 23 55 >100 90
Central nervous system 17 3,348 3,642 (2) (8) 2,377 (1) (8) 505 (15) (14) 466 6 -
Lamictal 1,097 996 18 10 892 26 17 143 (17) (17) 62 10 5
Imigran/Imitrex 685 711 3 (4) 558 9 1 89 (25) (25) 38 (2) (10)
Seroxat/Paxil 553 620 (6) (11) 143 (12) (18) 120 (19) (18) 290 5 (3)
Wellbutrin 529 900 (37) (41) 512 (38) (42) 4 100 100 13 (13) (19)
Requip 346 268 36 29 238 46 35 91 11 12 17 64 55
Cardiovascular and urogenital 8 1,554 1,636 - (5) 970 (2) (10) 401 3 4 183 7 2
Avodart 285 216 38 32 175 44 34 85 22 23 25 63 56
Lovaza 5 - - - 5 - - - - - - - -
Coreg 587 779 (18) (25) 581 (19) (25) - - - 6 17 -
Fraxiparine 184 209 (12) (12) - - - 151 (13) (11) 33 (10) (15)
Arixtra 100 58 81 72 55 88 72 39 70 70 6 100 100
Vesicare 50 32 69 56 50 69 56 - - - - - -
Levitra 49 43 23 14 47 24 15 2 100 100 - (100) (100)
Metabolic 8 1,508 1,870 (15) (19) 895 (24) (30) 290 15 16 323 (2) (6)
Avandia products 1,219 1,645 (22) (26) 780 (29) (35) 225 3 4 214 (6) (9)
Avandia 877 1,399 (34) (37) 592 (40) (45) 111 (11) (10) 174 (14) (16)
Avandamet 292 204 49 43 147 85 71 111 20 21 34 35 31
Bonviva/Boniva 161 95 79 69 115 49 39 44 >100 >100 2 - -
Anti-bacterials 7 1,323 1,363 (1) (3) 195 (3) (10) 588 (4) (3) 540 3 -
Augmentin 530 570 (6) (7) 67 (23) (29) 238 (9) (8) 225 6 4
Altabax 11 - - - 11 - - - - - - - -
Oncology and emesis 2 477 1,069 (54) (55) 272 (65) (67) 135 (10) (9) 70 (13) (17)
Hycamtin 119 113 10 5 70 6 (3) 40 18 21 9 13 13
Zofran 196 847 (77) (77) 78 (88) (89) 70 (34) (34) 48 (21) (23)
Tykerb 51 - - - 36 - - 13 - - 2 - -
Vaccines 11 1,993 1,692 20 18 628 44 35 800 14 15 565 7 6
Hepatitis 529 479 14 10 199 33 24 230 5 6 100 3 -
Infanrix/Pediarix 543 511 9 6 196 23 14 271 (4) (3) 76 26 25
Fluarix, FluLaval 174 170 7 2 98 16 8 41 11 14 35 (16) (19)
Flu-prepandemic 146 - - - 95 - - 51 - - - - -
Cervarix 10 - - - - - - 9 - - 1 - -
Rotarix 91 44 >100 >100 - - - 23 >100 >100 68 79 74
Boostrix 66 60 15 10 40 5 (2) 19 27 27 7 75 75
Other 5 901 924 - (2) 65 (18) (22) 255 (1) 1 581 3 (1)
100 19,163 20,013 - (4) 9,273 (3) (10) 5,560 1 2 4,330 6 3
CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates. £% represents growth at actual exchange rates.56 GSK Annual Report 2008
Report of the Directors
Financial review 2007
continued
This followed publication of an article in the New England Consumer Healthcare turnover (restated)
Journal of Medicine. This article suggested that there may be
cardiovascular risk associated with Avandia. Despite GSK’s efforts, % of 2007 2006 Growth
doctors became reluctant to start new patients on Avandia without total £m £m CER% £%
further guidance from the FDA. Following clarification from the Over-the-counter medicines 50 1,788 1,561 20 15
FDA in October, there was a new approved label for Avandia. Panadol franchise 263 234 14 12
Outside the USA, sales in Europe grew 3% to £225 million, and in Smoking cessation products 314 353 (6) (11)
Tums 88 93 2 (5)
Rest of World markets, sales declined 6% to £214 million.
Cold sore franchise 79 69 19 14
We recorded in turnover a £161 million share of co-promotion Breathe Right 63 2 >100 >100
income for Boniva/Bonviva, a once-monthly oral bisphosphonate alli 150 – – –
for the treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis.
Oral healthcare 30 1,049 993 8 6
Aquafresh franchise 398 374 9 6
Vaccines
Sensodyne franchise 293 257 16 14
Vaccine sales increased 20% to £2.0 billion, with good
Dental care 222 217 6 2
performances in all regions: US sales rose 44% to £628 million;
European sales grew 14% to £800 million and sales in Rest of Nutritional healthcare 20 716 658 9 9
World were up 7% to £565 million. Sales of hepatitis vaccines Lucozade 347 301 16 15
grew 14% to £529 million, driven by US growth of 33%. Horlicks 174 156 12 12
Ribena 156 169 (7) (8)
Infanrix/Pediarix grew 9% to £543 million, again driven by US
100 3,553 3,212 14 11
growth of 23%. Sales of the new two-dose vaccine, Rotarix, to
prevent rotavirus gastroenteritis, doubled to £91 million, with * CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates. £% represents growth
strong growth in both Europe and Rest of World. Sales of Cervarix, at actual exchange rates.
GSK’s vaccine to prevent cervical cancer, were £10 million. Oral healthcare
Oral healthcare sales grew 8% to over £1 billion. Sales of
Cardiovascular and urogenital
Aquafresh were up 9% to £398 million, helped by the success of
Sales of Coreg, for heart disease, fell 18% to £587 million,
the new Aquafresh White Trays. Sensodyne also grew strongly, up
following the introduction of US generic competition to Coreg IR
16% for the year to £293 million, driven by a successful launch of
in September. Sales of Coreg CR, which was launched in March
Sensodyne ProNamel.
2007, were £88 million. Avodart, for benign prostatic hyperplasia
(enlarged prostate), continued to perform strongly with sales up Nutritional healthcare
38% to £285 million.
Nutritional healthcare product sales grew 9% to £716 million.
Lucozade grew 16% to £347 million, and Horlicks grew 12% to
Anti-bacterials
£174 million. Ribena sales were down 7% to £156 million.
Anti-bacterial sales declined 1% to £1,323 million reflecting
generic competition in all regions. Operating profit – total results
Oncology and emesis Total results include restructuring costs related to the new
Tykerb achieved sales of £51 million in its first year, £36 million Operational Excellence programme, which commenced in
of which arose in the USA following its launch in March. Sales October 2007.
of Zofran declined 77% to £196 million, reflecting generic
competition in the USA, Europe and Rest of World where sales 2007 2006 Growth
£m % £m % CER% £%
declined 88%, 34% and 21% respectively.
Turnover 22,716 100.0 23,225 100.0 2 (2)
Consumer Healthcare sales Cost of sales (5,317) (23.4) (5,010) (21.6) 8 6
Selling, general
OTC medicines and administration (6,954) (30.6) (7,257) (31.2) – (4)
Over-the-counter medicine sales grew 20% to £1.8 billion, with Research and
Panadol up 14% to £263 million and alli sales of £150 million development (3,327) (14.7) (3,457) (14.9) (1) (4)
Other operating
since launch in the USA in June. Smoking control products
income 475 2.1 307 1.3
declined 6% to £314 million due to strong competition in the US
market. Breathe Right and FiberChoice, added to the portfolio with Operating profit 7,593 33.4 7,808 33.6 3 (3)
the acquisition of CNS in December 2006, achieved combined
sales of £81 million.GSK Annual Report 2008 57
Report of the Directors
Financial review 2007
continued
Cost of sales The total operating profit impact of these items was a £535 million
Cost of sales as a percentage of turnover increased by 1.8 charge in 2007 (£340 million charge in 2006).
percentage points. At constant exchange rates, cost of sales as
a percentage of turnover increased by 1.3 percentage points, Profit before taxation – total results
reflecting charges related to the new Operational Excellence
programme of £111 million (2006 – £nil) and unfavourable Net finance costs
product and regional mixes compared with 2006.
2007 2006
Finance income £m £m
Selling, general and administration
Interest and other income 255 285
Selling, general and administration (SG&A) costs as a percentage
Fair value adjustments and hedges 7 2
of turnover reduced 0.6 percentage points. At constant exchange
262 287
rates, the decrease was 0.7 percentage points, reflecting flat
expenditure compared with the prior year on a turnover growth of
Finance costs
2%. SG&A costs included charges related to the new Operational
Interest costs (432) (314)
Excellence programme of £137 million (2006 – £nil). Advertising
Unwinding of discount on liabilities (27) (36)
and promotion increased by 2%, selling and distribution increased
Fair value adjustments and hedges 6 (2)
by 2%, and general and administration expenditure declined 5%.
(453) (352)
Research and development
Finance costs increased owing to increased levels of debt to
R&D expenditure declined 1% and included charges related to
finance the share buy-back programme.
the new Operational Excellence programme of £90 million (2006
– £nil). The benefit arose from lower impairment charges and the
Share of after tax profits of associates and
winding-down of previous restructuring activities. Excluding these
joint ventures
items, R&D expenditure declined 2% on last year. Pharmaceutical
The share of profits of associates arises principally from the Group’s
R&D expenditure represented 16.7% (2006 – 16.7%) of
holding in Quest Diagnostics Inc.
pharmaceutical turnover.
Profit before taxation – total results
Other operating income
Taking account of net finance costs and the contribution from
Other operating income includes royalty income, equity
associates, total profit before taxation was £7,452 million
investment disposals and impairments, product disposals and
compared with £7,799 million in 2006, an increase of 2% at
fair value adjustments to financial instruments. Other operating
constant exchange rates, but a 4% sterling decline.
income was £475 million in 2007 (2006 – £307 million). The
increase is primarily due to higher royalty income (£216 million
Major restructuring programmes
in 2007 compared with £94 million in 2006), favourable fair
In October 2007, GSK announced a significant new £1.5 billion
value movements on financial instruments (£41 million in 2007
Operational Excellence programme to improve the effectiveness
compared with £29 million in 2006), and the Roche litigation
and productivity of its operations.
settlement relating to carvedilol, partially offset by lower asset
disposal profits. An expansion to the programme was announced in February 2009
and this programme is now expected to deliver annual pre-tax
Operating profit – total results savings of £1.7 billion by 2011. One-off charges of £338 million
Overall, the operating profit margin decreased 0.2 percentage before tax relating to the programme were recorded in Q4 2007.
points as operating profit decreased 3% in sterling terms to There were no significant acquisition-related restructuring costs
£7,593 million. Operating profit increased 3% at constant incurred in 2006 or 2007.
exchange rates and the CER margin increased 0.5 percentage
Because of the extent and cost of the Operational Excellence
points, reflecting flat SG&A expenditure and higher other
programme, a columnar presentation has been adopted in the
operating income, partially offset by an increase in cost of sales.
income statement. The analysis below of operating profit and
In 2007, gains from asset disposals were £109 million the subsequent discussion excludes restructuring costs related
(£169 million in 2006), costs for legal matters were £255 million to the new Operational Excellence programme. Management
(£333 million in 2006), fair value movements on financial believes that this presentation assists shareholders in gaining a
instruments resulted in an income of £41 million (income of clearer understanding of the Group’s financial performance and
£29 million in 2006), charges related to old restructuring activity is consistent with the way management assesses the Group’s
were £92 million (£205 million in 2006) and charges related to the financial performance.
new Operational Excellence programme were £338 million
(2006 – £nil).58 GSK Annual Report 2008
Report of the Directors
Financial review 2007
continued
Operating profit – results before Operating profit – results before major restructuring
major restructuring Overall, the operating profit margin increased 1.3 percentage
points as operating profit increased 2% in sterling terms to
2007 2006 Growth £7,931 million. Operating profit increased 8% at constant
£m % £m % CER% £% exchange rates and the margin increased 2 percentage points,
Turnover 22,716 100.0 23,225 100.0 2 (2) reflecting declines in SG&A and R&D expenditure on turnover
Cost of sales (5,206) (22.9) (5,010) (21.6) 6 4 growth of 2%, and higher other operating income.
Selling, general
In 2007, gains from asset disposals were £109 million (2006 –
and administration (6,817) (30.0) (7,257) (31.2) (2) (6)
£169 million), costs for legal matters were £255 million (2006
Research and
– £333 million), fair value movements on financial instruments
development (3,237) (14.3) (3,457) (14.9) (3) (6)
resulted in an income of £41 million (2006 – £29 million) and
Other operating
charges related to old restructuring activity were £92 million
income 475 2.1 307 1.3
(2006 – £205 million). The operating profit impact of these items
Operating profit 7,931 34.9 7,808 33.6 8 2
was a £197 million charge in 2007 (2006 – £340 million).
Cost of sales
Profit before taxation – results before
Cost of sales as a percentage of turnover increased by 1.3
major restructuring
percentage points. At constant exchange rates, cost of sales as
a percentage of turnover increased by 0.8 percentage points,
Net finance costs
reflecting unfavourable product and regional mix.
2007 2006
Finance income £m £m
Selling, general and administration
Interest and other income 255 285
Selling, general and administration (SG&A) costs as a percentage
Fair value adjustments and hedges 7 2
of turnover reduced 1.2 percentage points and at constant
exchange rates, the decrease was 1.3 percentage points, reflecting 262 287
a 2% decline in expenditure compared with prior year on a
Finance costs
turnover growth of 2%. SG&A costs were down 2% due to lower
selling and general and administration expenditure partly offset Interest costs (434) (314)
by higher advertising and promotion. Advertising and promotion Unwinding of discount on liabilities (27) (36)
increased 2% and accounted for less than a 1% increase in Fair value adjustments and hedges 8 (2)
total SG&A. Selling and distribution declined 1% and general (453) (352)
and administration expenditure declined 7%. Collectively these
items accounted for a 2% decline in total SG&A, of which one Profit before taxation – results before
major restructuring
percentage point was due to lower charges related to
legal matters. Taking account of net finance costs and the contribution from
associates, results before major restructuring, profit before taxation
Research and development was £7,790 million compared with £7,799 million in 2006, an
R&D expenditure decreased 3% partly as a result of lower increase of 6% CER, but flat in sterling terms.
impairment charges and the winding-down of previous
restructuring activities. Excluding these items, R&D expenditure Taxation
was flat. Pharmaceutical R&D expenditure represented 16.2%
(2006 – 16.7%) of pharmaceutical turnover. 2007 2006
£m £m
UK corporation tax 452 400
Other operating income
Overseas taxation 1,962 2,310
Other operating income was £475 million in 2007 (2006 –
£307 million). The increase is primarily due to higher royalty Current taxation 2,414 2,710
income (£216 million in 2007 compared with £94 million in 2006), Deferred taxation (272) (409)
favourable fair value movements on financial instruments Taxation on total profits 2,142 2,301
(£41 million in 2007 compared with £29 million in 2006), and
the Roche litigation settlement relating to carvedilol, partially The charge for taxation on total profit amounting to £2,142
offset by lower asset disposal profits. million, represents an effective tax rate of 28.7% (2006 – 29.5%).
The charge for taxation on results before major restructuring
profit, amounting to £2,219 million, represents an effective tax
rate of 28.5% (2006 – 29.5%).GSK Annual Report 2008 59
Report of the Directors
Financial review 2007
continued
The Group balance sheet at 31st December 2007 included a tax Results before major restructuring profit for the year were
payable liability of £826 million and a tax recoverable asset of £5,571 million, an increase of 8% (1% in sterling terms).
£58 million. Profit attributable to minority interests was £96 million and profit
attributable to shareholders was £5,475 million, an increase of
The integrated nature of the Group’s worldwide operations,
8% (2% in sterling terms). The interest cost of the share buy-back
involving significant investment in research and strategic
programme adversely impacts the Group’s profits but benefits
manufacture at a limited number of locations, with consequential
EPS. Results before major restructuring EPS increased 10%,
cross-border supply routes into numerous end-markets, gives rise
reflecting higher profits and also the reduction in the weighted
to complexity and delay in negotiations with revenue authorities
average number of shares resulting from the Group’s share
as to the profits on which individual Group companies are liable
buy-back programme. At actual rates of exchange, earnings per
to tax. Disagreements with, and between, revenue authorities as
share increased 4%. The unfavourable currency impact on EPS
to intra-Group transactions, in particular the price at which goods
of six percentage points reflected a strengthening of Sterling
should be transferred between Group companies in different
against the US dollar and compared with a four percentage point
tax jurisdictions, can produce conflicting claims from revenue
unfavourable currency impact on turnover.
authorities as to the profits to be taxed in individual territories.
Resolution of such issues is a continuing fact of life for GSK.
Dividend
In 2007, our main open tax issues were in the UK, USA, Canada The Board declared a fourth interim dividend of 16 pence per
and Japan. share resulting in a dividend for the year of 53 pence, a five pence
increase over the dividend of 48 pence per share for 2006.
For the latest position on Taxation see ‘Taxation’ in the 2008
Financial Review on page 40.
Profit for the year
2007 2006 Growth
£m £m CER% £%
Total profit after taxation
for the year 5,310 5,498 3 (3)
Total profit attributable to
shareholders 5,214 5,389 3 (3)
Basic earnings per share (pence) 94.4p 95.5p 5 (1)
Basic earnings per ADS (US$) $3.77 $3.53
Results before major restructuring 5,571 5,498 8 1
profit after taxation for the year
Results before major restructuring
profit attributable to shareholders 5,475 5,389 8 2
Adjusted earnings per share (pence) 99.1p 95.5p 10 4
Adjusted earnings per ADS (US$) $3.96 $3.53
Weighted average number
of shares (millions) 5,524 5,643
Diluted total earnings per share (pence) 93.7p 94.5p
Diluted total earnings per ADS (US$) $3.75 $3.50
Weighted average number
of shares (millions) 5,567 5,700
Total results including restructuring costs related to the new
Operational Excellence programme produced a basic EPS of 94.4p
compared with 95.5p in 2006. This was a 5% increase in CER
terms compared with 2006, but a 1% decline in sterling terms.60 GSK Annual Report 2008
Report of the Directors
The Board
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
1 Sir Christopher Gent (Aged 60) 4 Dr Stephanie Burns (Aged 54)
Appointed on 1st June 2004. Chairman. Sir Christopher was the Appointed on 12th February 2007. Non-Executive Director.
Chief Executive Officer of Vodafone Group plc, until his retirement Dr Burns is Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of
in July 2003. He is a Non-Executive Director of Lehman Brothers Dow Corning Corporation. She is also a member of the American
Holdings Inc, a Non-Executive Director of Ferrari SpA, a member Chemical Society and sits on the Executive Committee of the
of KPMG’s Chairman’s Advisory Group, a Senior Adviser at Bain Society of Chemical Industry, America Section, serves on the Board
& Co. and a member of the Advisory Board of Reform. of Directors of the American Chemistry Council, and on the Board
of Directors for the Society for Women’s Health Research. Dr Burns
2 Andrew Witty (Aged 44)
holds a PhD in organic chemistry from Iowa State University.
Appointed on 31st January 2008. Chief Executive Officer.
Mr Witty was named Chief Executive Officer Designate for GSK in 5 Lawrence Culp (Aged 45)
October 2007 and was appointed Chief Executive Officer (CEO) on Appointed on 1st July 2003. Non-Executive Director.
21st May 2008. He joined the Group in 1985 and has held senior Mr Culp is President and Chief Executive Officer of Danaher
positions in Asia, Africa and the USA. Immediately prior to being Corporation. Prior to joining Danaher, he held positions in
appointed CEO, Andrew was President, Pharmaceuticals Europe, a Accenture, previously Andersen Consulting.
position he held from January 2003. He is a member of the Business
6 Sir Crispin Davis (Aged 59)
Council for Britain, a Board Member of PhRMA, a Vice-President
Appointed on 1st July 2003. Non-Executive Director.
of EFPIA and a Member of the Singapore Economic Development
Sir Crispin is Chief Executive Officer of Reed Elsevier PLC. Prior to
Board’s International Advisory Council.
that, he was Chief Executive of Aegis Group plc, which he joined
3 Professor Sir Roy Anderson (Aged 61) from Guinness plc, where he was a member of the main Board and
Appointed on 1st October 2007. Non-Executive Director. Group Managing Director of United Distillers. He spent his early
Professor Anderson is Professor of Infectious Disease Epidemiology career with Procter & Gamble.
in the Faculty of Medicine, Imperial College, London, and is Rector
7 Julian Heslop (Aged 55)
of Imperial College. He is a fellow of the Royal Society and a Foreign
Appointed on 1st April 2005. Chief Financial Officer.
Associate Member of the Institute of Medicine at the US National
Mr Heslop joined Glaxo Wellcome as Financial Controller in April
Academy of Sciences. Until September 2007, Professor Anderson
1998. In January 2001 he was appointed Senior Vice President,
was the Chief Scientific Adviser at the Ministry of Defence in the UK.
Operations Controller. Prior to joining the Group he held senior
finance roles at Grand Metropolitan.GSK Annual Report 2008 61
Report of the Directors
8 9 10 11 12 13 14
8 Sir Deryck Maughan (Aged 61) 12 Dr Moncef Slaoui (Aged 49)
Appointed on 1st June 2004. Non-Executive Director. Appointed on 17th May 2006. Chairman, Research &
Sir Deryck is a Partner of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co, Development. Dr Slaoui joined GSK Biologicals in 1988 where
and a Non-Executive Director of Thomson Reuters and BlackRock he engineered the development of a robust vaccines pipeline
Inc. He was formerly Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of and subsequently led Worldwide Business Development for
Citigroup International and of Salomon Brothers Inc. pharmaceuticals before his appointment to lead R&D. He is a
member of the Board of the Agency for Science, Technology
9 Dr Daniel Podolsky (Aged 55)
& Research (A*STAR) and has a PhD in Molecular Biology and
Appointed on 1st July 2006. Non-Executive Director.
Immunology from Université Libre de Bruxelles.
Dr Podolsky is President of the University of Texas Southwestern Medical
Center in Dallas and holds the Phillip O’Bryan Montgomery, Jr., M.D. 13 Tom de Swaan (Aged 62)
Distinguished Presidential Chair in Academic Administration, and the Appointed on 1st January 2006. Non-Executive Director.
Doris and Bryan Wildenthal Distinguished Chair in Medical Science. Mr de Swaan is a member of the Board of Directors of Zurich Financial
He is a member of the Board of the Southwest Medical Foundation, Services and Vice Chairman of the Supervisory Board and Chairman
and is also Chairman of the Board and Scientific Co-Founder of the of the Audit Committee of Royal Ahold, a member of the Supervisory
GI Company. Board of Royal DSM, and Chairman of the Supervisory Board of
VanLanschot Bankiers. Until January 2006, he was a member of the
10 Sir Ian Prosser (Aged 65)
Managing Board and Chief Financial Officer of ABN AMRO.
Appointed on 23rd May 2000. Senior Independent Director.
Sir Ian was formerly a Non-Executive Director of SmithKline Beecham 14 Sir Robert Wilson (Aged 65)
plc. He is Non-Executive Deputy Chairman of BP plc, Chairman of Appointed on 1st November 2003. Non-Executive Director.
the Navy, Army and Air Force Institutes (NAAFI), a Non-Executive Sir Robert is Non-Executive Chairman of BG Group plc and The
Director of Sara Lee Corporation and a member of the CBI Economist Group and was previously Executive Chairman of Rio Tinto.
President’s Committee.
James Murdoch (Aged 36)
11 Dr Ronaldo Schmitz (Aged 70) To join the Board on 20th May 2009. Non-Executive Director.
Appointed on 23rd May 2000. Non-Executive Director. Mr Murdoch is Chairman and Chief Executive of News Corporation,
Dr Schmitz was formerly a Non-Executive Director of Glaxo Wellcome Europe and Asia. He is also Non-Executive Chairman of BSkyB
plc. He is a Non-Executive Director of Legal & General Group plc, a and a member of the Board of News Corporation. He served as
member of the Board of Directors of Rohm and Haas Company and Chief Executive Officer of BSkyB from 2003 to 2007 and was also
Cabot Corporation and of the Supervisory Board of SICK AG. previously Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Star TV. He also
serves on the Leadership Council of The Climate Group.
Other Directors
Dr Jean-Pierre Garnier, formerly Chief Executive Officer, retired from
the Board on 21st May 2008. Mr Christopher Viehbacher, formerly
Details of membership of the Board Committees may be found on President, North American Pharmaceuticals, who was appointed
page 66. to the Board on 31st January 2008, resigned from the Board with
effect from 8th September 2008.62 GSK Annual Report 2008
Report of the Directors
The Corporate Executive Team (CET)
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
1 Andrew Witty 6 Eddie Gray
Chief Executive Officer. Andrew succeeded JP Garnier as Chief President, Pharmaceuticals Europe. Eddie became responsible
Executive Officer in May 2008. He joined Glaxo UK in 1985. During for the Group’s operations in Europe in January 2008. He joined
his career with the company he has held the roles of Managing Beecham in 1988 and, prior to his current appointment, was Senior
Director South Africa, Vice President and General Manager Vice President and General Manager, Pharmaceuticals UK.
Marketing in the US and Senior Vice President, Asia Pacific.
7 Julian Heslop
He was appointed President, Pharmaceuticals Europe for
Chief Financial Officer. Julian became Chief Financial Officer
GlaxoSmithKline in January 2003.
in April 2005. As head of the finance function he is responsible for
2 Simon Bicknell activities such as financial reporting and control, tax and treasury,
Senior Vice President, Company Secretary and Compliance finance systems, internal audit and insurance. He joined Glaxo
Officer. Simon ensures that compliance and risk management are Wellcome as Financial Controller in April 1998.
effectively embedded within the business and oversees corporate
8 Abbas Hussain
governance for the Group. Simon joined the Corporate Secretariat
President, Emerging Markets. Abbas joined GSK in June 2008
in 1984. He was appointed Deputy Company Secretary of Glaxo
from Eli Lilly and Company, where he spent 20 years overseeing
Wellcome in 1995 and Company Secretary of GlaxoSmithKline plc
markets throughout Europe, Africa/Middle East and Australasia.
in 2000.
9 Duncan Learmouth
3 John Clarke
Senior Vice President, Corporate Communications and
President, Consumer Healthcare. John is responsible for the
Community Partnerships. Duncan is responsible for the Group’s
Consumer Healthcare business which produces oral healthcare,
investor relations, internal and external communications, its image
over-the-counter and nutritional healthcare products. He joined
and partnerships with communities. He joined Glaxo in 1991 and
Beecham in 1976 and was the President of the Futures Group
was Vice President, Global Investor Relations, before appointment
before his current appointment in January 2006.
to his current position in July 2006.
4 Deirdre Connelly
10 Bill Louv
President, North American Pharmaceuticals. Deirdre joined GSK
Chief Information Officer. Bill was appointed Chief Information
in February 2009 after working at Eli Lilly and Company for 24 years.
Officer in January 2007. He is responsible for information
She held a variety of positions including sales professional, General
technology across GSK. Bill joined Glaxo in 1994 as Vice President,
Manager of Puerto Rico, Executive Director of Human Resources and
Medical Data Sciences. Prior to his current role, Bill was Senior Vice
most recently President of US operations.
President, R&D Information Technology.
5 Marc Dunoyer
President, Pharmaceuticals Asia Pacific/Japan. Marc was
appointed President, Pharmaceuticals Asia Pacific/Japan in May 2008.
He joined the Group in 1999 and was President, Pharmaceuticals Japan
from January 2000 until his current appointment.GSK Annual Report 2008 63
Report of the Directors
10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17
11 Dan Phelan 15 Jean Stéphenne
Chief of Staff. Dan is responsible for Corporate Strategy and President and General Manager, Biologicals. Jean has led
Development, IT, HR, Real Estate and Facilities, Environmental GSK’s global vaccines business since 1989. Previously he was Vice
Health and Safety, and Global Security. He joined Smith Kline President of Human Vaccines Research and Development and
& French in 1981 and previously held the role of Senior Vice Production. He joined the company in 1974 as Head of Bacterial and
President Human Resources until his appointment as Chief of Viral Vaccines production. Jean was named Baron by King Albert II
Staff in May 2008. of the Belgians in 2000 in recognition of his leading contribution to
R&D and industry in Belgium.
12 David Pulman
President, Global Manufacturing and Supply. David is 16 Claire Thomas
responsible for the Global Manufacturing and Supply organisation Senior Vice President, Human Resources. Claire leads the global
and Global Procurement. He joined Glaxo in 1978. He has broad Human Resources (HR) function. Previously, she oversaw HR in
experience of manufacturing operations having previously led Pharmaceuticals International and in Pharmaceuticals Europe. Claire
the Primary Supply, European manufacturing, North American joined the company in 1996 and was appointed Director of Human
manufacturing, Global Logistics and Manufacturing Strategy Resources for UK Pharmaceuticals in 1997. Claire was honoured as
organisations. an Outstanding European Woman of Achievement in 2007.
13 David Redfern 17 Dan Troy
Chief Strategy Officer. David is responsible for proactive Senior Vice President and General Counsel. Dan joined GSK
exploration of new business opportunities and strategic planning. as Senior Vice President and General Counsel in September 2008.
He began his career with GSK in 1994 in Corporate Development Previously he was a Partner at the Washington law firm Sidley
before being appointed Finance Director of Europe Pharmaceuticals Austin LLP and Chief Counsel for the FDA where he served as a
in 1999. He was appointed Area Director for Central Europe in primary liaison to the White House and the US Department of
2003 and Northern Europe in 2005. Health and Human Services (HHS).
14 Moncef Slaoui Other members
Chairman, Research & Development. Moncef leads the Group’s Bob Ingram continues to act as a special consultant to the Group
drug discovery and development activities. He joined the Group in and attends some CET meetings in that capacity.
1988 and was a key player in building GSK’s vaccines pipeline. In
Changes to the CET in 2008
2003 he was appointed Senior Vice President, Worldwide Business
JP Garnier, Chief Executive Officer, retired from GSK in May 2008.
Development until his current appointment in June 2006.
Rupert Bondy, Senior Vice President and General Counsel, left
GSK in March 2008. Russell Greig, President, Pharmaceuticals
International, left the CET in May 2008 for a new role as President
of the GSK Venture Fund. Chris Viehbacher, President, US
Pharmaceuticals, left GSK in December 2008.64 GSK Annual Report 2008
Report of the Directors
Corporate governance
continued
Governance and policy Chairman and CEO
Sir Christopher Gent has chaired the company since 1st January
This section discusses GSK’s management structures and governance
2005 and was Chairman throughout 2008. Mr Witty is the Chief
procedures. It includes disclosures on compliance with the Combined
Executive Officer (CEO). He succeeded Dr Garnier, who retired
Code on Corporate Governance of the Financial Reporting Council
from the Board at the end of the AGM on 21st May 2008.
(Combined Code) and with US laws and regulation.
Mr Witty’s biographical details can be found on page 60.
The Board and Corporate Executive Team The Chairman leads the Board, and represents the Board to
The Directors are listed under ‘The Board’ on page 60. the CEO and other CET members as necessary between Board
meetings. The CEO manages the Group and implements the
The Board is responsible for the Group’s system of corporate
strategy and policies adopted by the Board. The Chairman and
governance and is ultimately accountable for the Group’s activities,
the chairmen of Board Committees communicate regularly with
strategy and financial performance.
the CEO and other CET members. The division of responsibilities
Independence between the role of Chairman and the CEO has been set out in
The Board considers all its Non-Executive Directors to be writing, agreed by the Board and appears in full on the
independent in character and judgement. company’s website.
Dr Schmitz has served on the Board for more than ten years, The CEO is responsible for executive management of the Group
having been appointed to the Board of Glaxo Wellcome plc on and is assisted by the CET. The CET meets at least 11 times per year
1st January 1997. During consideration of the Annual Review and otherwise as necessary. The members and their responsibilities
of Board effectiveness at its meeting in January 2009, the Board are listed under ‘Corporate Executive Team’ (page 62).
concluded that Dr Schmitz remained independent, notwithstanding
Senior Independent Director
his length of service. In the opinion of the Board, Dr Schmitz
Sir Ian Prosser was appointed Senior Independent Director (SID)
continued to demonstrate the characteristics of independence, such
on 1st January 2005 and held this role throughout 2008. Sir
as objectively challenging management and taking part in rigorous
Robert Wilson will become the SID following Sir Ian’s retirement
debate, while at the same time possessing an outstanding knowledge
from the Board in May 2009.
of the company’s business and affairs, together with his experience
gained as Chairman of the Audit Committee. In a long cycle Board process
investment business, such as GSK, it was considered to be particularly The Board has the authority, and is accountable to shareholders,
important to have experienced members on the Board. for ensuring that the company is appropriately managed and
achieves the strategic objectives it sets. The Board discharges those
When Sir Christopher Gent was appointed to the Board as Deputy
responsibilities through an annual programme of meetings which
Chairman, he was determined by the Board to be independent.
includes the approval of overall budgetary planning and business
Upon taking up the chairmanship of the Board on 1st January
strategy. The Board reviews the company’s internal controls and
2005, in accordance with the Combined Code, he was excluded
risk management policies and approves its governance structure
from the determination of whether at least half the Board are
and code of ethics.
independent Non-Executive Directors. Sir Christopher Gent is a
member of the Remuneration Committee, as permitted by the The Board appraises and approves major financing, investment and
Combined Code, in light of his independence upon appointment licensing decisions in excess of defined thresholds. In addition, the
as Chairman. Board evaluates and monitors the performance of the Group as a
whole. This includes:
The Board considers that Professor Sir Roy Anderson, Dr Burns, Mr
Culp, Sir Crispin Davis, Sir Deryck Maughan, Dr Podolsky, Sir Ian Prosser, • engaging at Board meetings with the CEO, the other Executive
Dr Schmitz, Mr de Swaan and Sir Robert Wilson are independent in Directors and members of the CET as appropriate, on the
accordance with the recommendations of the Combined Code. financial and operating performance of GSK and external issues
material to the Group’s prospects
Mr James Murdoch will join the Board with effect from 20th May 2009
• evaluating progress towards the achievement of the Group’s
and the Board has determined that he will be an independent Non-
financial and business objectives and annual plans
Executive Director in accordance with the Combined Code.
• monitoring, through reports received directly or from various
Sir Ian Prosser and Dr Schmitz will retire from the Board following the
committees, the significant risks facing the Group.
AGM in May 2009.
At the date of publication and throughout 2008, a majority of the
Board members, excluding the Chairman, were independent Non-
Executive Directors.GSK Annual Report 2008 65
Report of the Directors
Corporate governance
continued
The Board has overall responsibility for succession planning for the Indemnification of Directors
CEO and the other Executive Directors. The Board has given the CEO Qualifying third party indemnity provisions (as defined in section
broad authority to operate the business of the Group, and the CEO 234 of the Companies Act 2006) are in force for the benefit of the
is accountable for, and reports to the Board on, the performance of Directors and former Directors who held office during 2008.
the business. CET members make regular presentations to the Board
Directors’ Conflicts of Interest
on their areas of responsibility, and the Board meets with all the CET
Directors have a duty to avoid a situation in which they have, or
members on an annual basis to discuss collectively the Group’s strategy.
can have, a direct or indirect conflict of interest or possible conflict
A primary element of the induction process for new Non-Executive of interest with the company. The duty applies in particular to the
Directors is undertaken by members of the CET, and all Non- exploitation of any property, information or opportunity, whether
Executive Directors are encouraged to have separate informal or not GSK could take advantage of it. The company’s Articles of
discussions at their discretion with any CET members. Association include a general power for the Board to authorise
such conflicts. There is no breach of duty if the relevant matter has
The Board met six times in 2008, with each member attending
been so authorised in advance.
as follows:
The Board has established procedures for handling situational
Number of meetings
held whilst a Board Number of conflicts of interest, which are in line with the best practice
Name member meetings attended
guidance issued by the General Counsel 100 Group and in
Sir Christopher Gent 6 6 accordance with the company’s Articles. It has authorised the
Mr A Witty* 6 6 Nominations Committee to grant and review periodically, but in
Mr J Heslop 6 6 any event annually, any potential or actual conflict authorisations.
Dr M Slaoui 6 6 Directors are not counted in the quorum for the authorisation of
Professor Sir Roy Anderson 6 6 their own actual or potential conflicts. The Company Secretary
minutes the consideration of any conflict. Authorisations granted
Dr S Burns 6 6
are recorded by the Company Secretary in a register of conflict
Mr L Culp 6 6
authorisations which are noted by the Board at its next meeting.
Sir Crispin Davis 6 6
On an ongoing basis, the Directors are responsible for informing
Sir Deryck Maughan 6 6
the Company Secretary of any new, actual or potential conflicts
Dr D Podolsky 6 6
that may arise or, if there are any changes in circumstances that
Sir Ian Prosser 6 6
may affect an authorisation previously given. Even when provided
Dr R Schmitz 6 6
with authorisation, a Director is not absolved from his or her duty
Mr T de Swaan 6 6
to promote the success of the company. If an actual conflict arises,
Sir Robert Wilson 6 6 post authorisation, the Board will choose to exclude the Director
Dr JP Garnier* 3 3 from the relevant information and debate, or suspend the Director
Mr C Viehbacher* 4 4 from the Board, or, as a last resort, require the Director to resign.
* Mr Witty and Mr Viehbacher were appointed to the Board on 31st Company Secretary
January 2008. Dr Garnier retired from the Board on 21st May 2008. The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board and is
Mr Viehbacher resigned from the Board on 8th September 2008. available to individual Directors in respect of Board procedures.
The Company Secretary is Mr Simon Bicknell, who was appointed
In addition to the six scheduled meetings, the Board also met on a
in May 2000. He is a barrister and joined the Group in 1984. He is
quorate basis on six occasions.
Secretary to all of the Board Committees except the Remuneration
Business environment development
Committee. The Deputy Company Secretary, Mrs Victoria Whyte,
To ensure that the Board is kept up-to-date on important matters,
was appointed Secretary to the Remuneration Committee with
including legal, governance and regulatory developments, presentations
effect from 27th January 2009. She is a solicitor and a Fellow of
are made on a regular basis by both external and internal advisers.
the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
Independent advice
Board Committees
The Board recognises that there may be occasions when one or
The Board has established a number of Committees and provides
more of the Directors feel it is necessary to take independent legal
sufficient resources to enable them to undertake their duties.
and/or financial advice at the company’s expense. There is an
Executive Directors are not members of the Audit, Remuneration,
agreed procedure to enable them to do so. This is explained in the
Nominations or Corporate Responsibility Committees, although
Governance section of the company’s website.
they may be invited to attend meetings. Each Director is a
member of the Corporate Administration & Transactions and
Finance Committees.66 GSK Annual Report 2008
Report of the Directors
Corporate governance
continued
Corporate governance framework
BOARD
(Chairman, 3 Executive Directors and 10
Independent Non-Executive Directors)
Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Corporate Responsibility
Chief Executive
6 Independent 4 Independent Non-Executive 4 Independent Non-Executive
Officer
Non-Executive Directors Directors & the Chairman Directors & the Chairman
Nominations Committee Corporate Administration
Finance Committee
4 Independent Non-Executive & Transactions Committee CET
Directors
Directors & the Chairman Directors & CET Members
Key
Board Committees
Management Committee
Current membership of these Committees is shown in the table below.
Corporate
Audit Remuneration Nominations Responsibility
Sir Christopher Gent – M C C
Professor Sir Roy Anderson – – – –
Dr S Burns – – – M
Mr L Culp – M M –
Sir Crispin Davis – M – –
Sir Deryck Maughan M – – –
Dr D Podolsky M – – M
Sir Ian Prosser M – M M
Dr R Schmitz M M M –
Mr T de Swaan C – – M
Sir Robert Wilson M C M –
Key: C = Chairman M = MemberGSK Annual Report 2008 67
Report of the Directors
Corporate governance
continued
Each Committee has written terms of reference which have been approved by the Board. The following is a summary of the role and
terms of reference of each Committee. The current full terms of reference of each Committee may be obtained from the Company
Secretary or the Governance section of the company’s website.
No of meetings Committee Report
Committee Role and Terms of Reference Membership comprises per year on page
Audit Reviews the financial and internal reporting process, Independent Non- ≥ 4 73-74
the system of internal controls, the management Executive Directors
of risks and the external and internal audit process.
The Committee also proposes to shareholders the
appointment of the external auditors and is directly
responsible for their remuneration and oversight of
their work.
Remuneration Determines the terms of service and remuneration of Independent Non- ≥ 4 78-98
the Executive Directors and members of the CET and, Executive Directors
with the assistance of external independent advisers, & the Chairman
it evaluates and makes recommendations to the Board
on overall executive remuneration policy.
(The Chairman and the CEO are responsible for
evaluating and making recommendations to the Board
on the remuneration of Non-Executive Directors.)
Nominations Reviews the structure, size and composition of the Independent Non- ≥ 1 75
Board and appointment of members to the Board Executive Directors
and the CET, and makes recommendations to the & the Chairman
Board as appropriate. The Committee also monitors
the planning of succession to the Board and Senior
Management.
Corporate Provides a Board-level forum for the regular review Independent Non- ≥ 3 75-76
Responsibility of external issues that have the potential for serious Executive Directors
impact upon the Group’s business and reputation. & the Chairman
The Committee is also responsible for oversight of
GSK’s worldwide donations and community support.
Finance Reviews and approves, on behalf of the Board, the Executive & Non- As necessary –
Annual Report and Form 20-F, and convening of the Executive Directors
AGM, together with the preliminary and quarterly
statements of trading results. It also approves
certain major licensing and capital transactions and
changes to the Group’s Investment Instrument and
Counterparty Limits.
Corporate Reviews and approves matters in connection with Executive & Non- As necessary –
Administration the administration of the Group’s business and Executive Directors,
& Transactions certain corporate transactions. CET members
and the Company
Secretary68 GSK Annual Report 2008
Report of the Directors
Corporate governance
continued
Evaluation of the Board, Board Committees The AGM takes place in London, and formal notification is sent
and Directors to shareholders at least one month in advance. At the Meeting, a
In previous years the evaluation of the performance of the business presentation is made to shareholders and all Directors able
Chairman, the Board, its Committees and Directors has been to attend are available, formally during the AGM, and informally
undertaken by the SID, in collaboration with the Committee afterwards, for questions. Committee Chairmen ordinarily attend the
Chairmen. In 2008 the Board engaged Dr Long of Boardroom AGM to respond to shareholders’ questions. The entire Board was in
Review to act as an independent facilitator for the Board attendance at the company’s AGM in May 2008. All resolutions at
evaluation process. the AGM are decided on a poll as required by the company’s Articles
of Association. The results of the poll are announced to the London
The process included a tailored questionnaire, a one-to-one
Stock Exchange and posted on the company’s website. Details of the
interview with each Director and the Company Secretary,
2009 AGM are set out in the section ‘Annual General Meeting’
observation of the Board and Committee meetings held in
(see page 71) and the Notice of AGM is published on the
December 2008 and a review of associated papers. The questions
company’s website.
covered a variety of aspects associated with Board effectiveness
including Board and Committee roles and responsibilities, culture To ensure that the Non-Executive Directors are aware of and
and dynamics, processes and support and individual effectiveness. understand the views of major shareholders about the company,
Feedback from the review was provided in the form of a written the Board has in place a process focusing on sector-specific issues,
report and presentation to the Board, which then discussed as well as general shareholder preferences.
its findings.
The CEO and CFO maintain a dialogue with institutional
The review concluded that the Chairman, the Board and its shareholders on performance, plans and objectives through a
Committees were operating effectively to a high level. The programme of regular meetings. Following his appointment as
Board agreed the following actions to generate more inclusive CEO in May 2008, Andrew Witty has undertaken an extensive
engagement with the executive management team and further series of meetings with GSK’s institutional shareholders.
improve its collective decision making process:
The Group’s Investor Relations department, with offices in London
• Identify how to utilise the time spent in Board and Committee and Philadelphia, acts as a focal point for contact with investors
meetings more effectively and facilitate further contribution by throughout the year.
Non-Executive Directors on a broader range of issues
The Chairman meets regularly with institutional investors to
• Seek to enhance further the Non-Executive Directors’ continuing hear their views and discuss issues of mutual importance and
education process beyond their initial induction communicates the views of investors to the Board as a whole.
The SID is also available to shareholders.
• Provide greater visibility to the Board of GSK’s executive talent
and the management succession planning process. The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee meets annually
with major shareholders to discuss executive remuneration policy.
The Board members also met separately, without the Chairman
being present, to discuss the Chairman’s performance and All Non-Executive Directors, including new appointees, are
contribution. It was agreed during this meeting that the Chairman available to meet with major shareholders if requested.
was performing well and had the unanimous and unequivocal
The company’s website provides access to current financial and
support of the other Directors, both Executive and Non-Executive.
business information about the Group.
Dialogue with shareholders
Share capital and control
Financial results are announced quarterly.
Details of the company’s authorised and issued share capital
The company reports formally to shareholders twice a year, when and the number of shares held in Treasury, as at 31st December
its half-year and full-year results are announced. The full-year 2008, can be found in Note 33 to the financial statements, ‘Share
results are included in the company’s Annual Report which is capital and share premium account’. GSK’s shares are listed on
published for shareholders. The company now produces an the London Stock Exchange and are also quoted on the New York
annual Summary which is sent to all shareholders to advise them Stock Exchange (NYSE) in the form of American Depositary shares
of the availability of the Annual Report and Notice of Meeting (ADS). Each ADS represents two Ordinary Shares.
on www.gsk.com. The CEO and CFO give presentations on the
full-year results to institutional investors, analysts and the media.
There are normally webcast teleconferences after the release of
the first, second and third quarter results for institutional investors,
analysts and the media. The Annual Report, Summary and
quarterly results are available on the company’s website.GSK Annual Report 2008 69
Report of the Directors
Corporate governance
continued
The holders of Ordinary Shares are entitled to receive dividends, The Bank of New York Mellon is the Depositary for the company’s
when declared, the company’s reports and accounts, to attend and ADS, which are listed on the New York Stock Exchange. Ordinary
speak at General Meetings of the company, to appoint proxies and Shares representing the company’s ADR program, which are
to exercise voting rights. managed by the Depositary, are registered in the name of BNY
(Nominees) Limited. Details of the number of Ordinary Shares held
There are no restrictions on transfer, or limitations on the holding
by the Depositary can be found on page 187.
of Ordinary Shares and no requirements to obtain prior approval
to any transfers. No Ordinary Shares carry any special rights with The company has not acquired or disposed of any interests in its
regard to control of the company and there are no restrictions on own shares, other than in connection with the company’s share
voting rights. Major shareholders have the same voting rights per buy-back programme. Details of the shares purchased, cancelled
share as all other shareholders. There are no known arrangements and held in Treasury are disclosed in Note 33 to the financial
under which financial rights are held by a person other than the statements, ‘Share capital and share premium account’.
holder of the shares and no known agreements on restrictions on
Directors and Officers
share transfers or on voting rights.
The interests of Directors and Officers and their connected
Shares acquired through GSK share schemes and plans rank persons in the issued share capital of the company are given in the
equally with the other shares in issue and have no special rights. Remuneration Report (pages 78 to 98).
The trustees of the company’s Employee Share Ownership Plan
The rules about the appointment and replacement of Directors are
(ESOP) trusts have waived their rights to dividends on shares held
contained in the company’s Articles of Association. The company’s
by the ESOP trusts.
Articles must be approved by shareholders in accordance with the
Change of control and essential contracts legislation in force from time to time.
The company does not have contracts or other arrangements
The Articles provide that Directors may be appointed by an
which individually are essential to the businesses nor is it party
ordinary resolution of the members or by a resolution of the
to any significant agreements that would take effect, alter or
Directors, provided that, in the latter instance, a director appointed
terminate upon a change of control following a takeover bid.
in this way retires at the first AGM following his appointment.
The company does not have agreements with any Director or
The Articles also provide that Directors should be subject to
Officer that would provide compensation for loss of office or
re-election at the AGM at intervals of three years or if they have
employment resulting from a takeover, except that provisions of
held office for a continuous period of nine years or more. The
the company’s share plans may cause options and awards granted
company’s members may remove a director by passing an ordinary
under such plans to vest on a takeover.
resolution of which special notice has been given. A Director may
Interests in voting rights automatically cease to be a Director if:
Other than as stated below, as far as the company is aware, there
• he becomes bankrupt or compounds with his creditors generally
are no persons with significant direct or indirect holdings in the
company. Information provided to the company pursuant to the • he ceases to be a Director by virtue of the Companies Acts or
Financial Services Authority’s (FSA) Disclosure and Transparency the Articles
Rules (DTRs) is published on a Regulatory Information Service and
• he is suffering from mental ill health
on the company’s website.
• he has missed Directors’ meetings for a continuous period of six
At 24th February 2009, the company had received notifications
months without permission and the Board resolves that he shall
in accordance with the FSA’s DTRs of the following notifiable
cease to be a Director
interests, in the voting rights in the company’s issued share capital:
• he is prohibited from being a Director by law
No . of Percentage of issued
shares capital (%)* • he resigns
Barclays PLC 186,518,653 3.59
• he offers to resign and the Board accept that offer, or
* P ercentage of Ordinary Shares in issue, excluding Treasury shares as at
24th February 2009. • all other Directors (being at least three in number) require him
to resign.70 GSK Annual Report 2008
Report of the Directors
Corporate governance
continued
Memorandum and Articles of Association The definitions of political donations, political expenditure and
The powers of the Directors are determined by UK legislation political organisations used in the legislation are very wide.
and the company’s Memorandum and Articles of Association, In particular, the definition of EU political organisations may extend
available on GSK’s website. The articles may be amended by a to bodies such as those concerned with policy review, law reform,
special resolution of the members. The Directors may exercise all the representation of the business community and special interest
the company’s powers provided that the Articles or applicable groups such as those concerned with the environment, which the
legislation do not stipulate that any such powers must be exercised company and its subsidiaries might wish to support. As a result,
by the members. The Directors have been authorised to issue the definitions may cover legitimate business activities not in the
and allot Ordinary Shares under Article 10 and the company is ordinary sense considered to be political donations or political
authorised to make purchases of its own shares under Article 7. expenditure. Such activities are not designed to support any
The powers under Articles 8 and 10 are subject to shareholder political party or independent election candidate. The authority
authorities which are sought on an annual basis at the AGM. Any which the Board has sought annually is a precautionary measure to
shares purchased by the company may be cancelled or held as ensure that the company and its subsidiaries do not inadvertently
Treasury shares. breach the legislation.
Share buy-back programme With effect from 1st January 2009, to ensure a consistent
A £12 billion programme of share repurchases commenced in approach to political contributions across the GSK group,
July 2007. Shares costing £6.2 billion have been repurchased GSK introduced a global policy to stop voluntarily all
under this programme and the company does not expect to make political contributions.
any significant repurchases in 2009. The programme covered
purchases by the company of shares for cancellation or to be held 2008 2007
Political Donations to: £ £
as Treasury shares, in accordance with the authority renewed by
EU Political Organisations – –
shareholders at the company’s AGM in 2008.
Non-EU Political Organisations
In May 2008, the company was authorised to purchase a comprising:
maximum of 584 million shares. Details of shares purchased, USA 319,000 249,000
those held as Treasury shares and those cancelled are disclosed Canada 28,000 27,000
in Note 33 to the financial statements ‘Share capital and share
347,000 276,000
premium account’. In total, the company has purchased
£15.3 billion of its own shares since 1st January 2001. Prior to the introduction of the Group’s new approach to political
contributions, the USA was the largest recipient of political
The exact amount and timing of future purchases, and the extent
donations. In line with US law, the corporate donations were
to which repurchased shares will be held as Treasury shares rather
not made at a federal level, but only to candidates and political
than being cancelled, will be determined by the company and is
parties at the state and local levels. In 2008, GSK supported
dependent on market conditions and other factors.
those candidates who sought an environment that appropriately
Donations to EU political organisations and EU rewarded high-risk, high-investment industries.
political expenditure
The situation was similar in Canada, and in the rest of the world
At the AGM in May 2001, shareholders first authorised the
donations were very rare and of low value.
company to make donations to EU political organisations and to
incur EU political expenditure, under the provisions of the Political Notwithstanding the new policy, the company continues to
Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000, of up to £100,000 support a GSK Political Action Committee (PAC) for employees in
each year. This authority has since been renewed annually. The law the USA which gives political donations. A PAC is an employee
requires companies to continue to obtain shareholder approval organisation which allows employees to contribute to a fund for
before they can make donations to EU political organisations or political donations. Employees decide upon the recipients of the
incur EU political expenditure. However, the company does not PAC donations. In 2008, a total of £539,359 (£522,172 in 2007)
make and does not intend to make donations to political parties or was donated to political organisations by the GSK PAC.
independent election candidates, nor does it make any donations
to EU political organisations or incur EU political expenditure.GSK Annual Report 2008 71
Report of the Directors
Corporate governance
continued
Annual General Meeting Shareholders are entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend
The AGM will be held at 2.30pm on Wednesday, 20th May 2009 the AGM and to speak and vote on their behalf.
at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary,
Details on how to appoint or be appointed a corporate
Westminster, London SW1P 3EE. The business to be transacted at
representative or proxy can be found on page 204. The Notice of
the meeting will include:
AGM will be published on the company’s website.
• Receiving and adopting GlaxoSmithKline’s 2008
Internal control framework
Annual Report
The Board recognises its responsibility to present a balanced and
• Approving the 2008 Remuneration Report understandable assessment of the Group’s position and prospects.
The Remuneration Report on pages 78 to 98 sets out the
The Board has accountability for reviewing and approving the
remuneration policies operated by GlaxoSmithKline and
adequacy and effectiveness of internal controls operated by the
disclosures on Directors’ remuneration, including those required
Group, including financial, operational and compliance controls
by the Companies Act 2006 and the Directors’ Remuneration
and risk management. The Board has delegated responsibility for
Report Regulations 2002. A resolution will be proposed to
such review to the Audit Committee, which receives reports from
approve the Remuneration Report.
those individuals identified in the Committee’s Report on pages
• Retirement, election and re-election of Directors 73 to 74. It is the responsibility of management, through the
Mr Larry Culp, Sir Crispin Davis, Dr Moncef Slaoui and Mr Tom CET, to implement Board policies on risk and control. The CET is
de Swaan will each retire and offer themselves for re-election to responsible for identifying, approving, monitoring and enforcing
the Board under Article 85 of the company’s Articles key policies that go to the heart of how the Group conducts
of Association. business. The internal control framework includes central direction,
resource allocation and risk management of the key activities of
Sir Ian Prosser and Dr Ronaldo Schmitz will also be retiring by
research and development, manufacturing, marketing and sales,
rotation but will not be seeking re-appointment as they will be
legal, human resources, information systems and financial practice.
retiring from the Board after the conclusion of the AGM.
As part of this framework, there is a comprehensive planning
Mr James Murdoch has been appointed a Director with effect
system with an annual budget approved by the Board. The results
from 20th May 2009 and will offer himself for election to
of operating units are reported monthly and compared with the
the Board.
budget. Forecasts are prepared regularly during the year.
• Re-appointment and remuneration of Auditors
Extensive financial controls, procedures and risk activities are
Resolutions will be proposed to re-appoint
reviewed by the Group’s internal auditors. Commercial and
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as auditors and to authorise
financial responsibility, however, is clearly delegated to local
the Audit Committee to determine their remuneration.
business units, supported by a regional management structure.
• Special business These principles are designed to provide an environment of
The company will seek authority to: central leadership coupled with local operating autonomy as the
framework for the exercise of accountability and control within
• make donations to EU political organisations and incur EU
the Group.
political expenditure, each capped at £50,000
The Group also attaches importance to clear principles and
• allot Ordinary Shares in the company
procedures designed to achieve appropriate accountability and
• give the Directors authority to disapply pre-emption rights control. A Group policy, ‘Risk Management and Legal Compliance’,
when allotting new shares in connection with rights issues or mandates that business units establish processes for managing and
otherwise up to a maximum of 5% of the current issued share monitoring risks significant to their businesses and the Group.
capital and purchase its own Ordinary Shares up to a maximum
The internal control framework also relies on the following for
of just under 10% of the current issued share capital
overseeing and reporting risk and compliance issues.
• exempt the Auditors from having to state the name of
their senior statutory auditor for the company in GSK’s
Annual Report
• reduce the notice required to call a general meeting to not less
than 14 clear days
• adopt new Performance Share, Share Option and Deferred
Annual Bonus plans.72 GSK Annual Report 2008
Report of the Directors
Corporate governance
continued
Risk Oversight and Compliance Council (ROCC) The CEC is managed by the Corporate Compliance Officer, who
The ROCC is a council of senior executives authorised by the Board reports directly to the CEO. The Corporate Compliance Officer
to assist the Audit Committee oversee the risk management and chairs the ROCC and provides summary reports on the ROCC’s
internal control activities of the Group. Membership comprises activities and the Group’s significant risks to the CET and the Audit
several CET members and some of the heads of departments Committee on a regular basis. The Corporate Compliance Officer’s
with internal control, risk management, assurance, audit and direct reporting line to the Audit Committee provides a mechanism
compliance responsibilities. for bypassing the executive management should the need
ever arise.
The ROCC meets on a regular basis to review and assess significant
risks and their mitigation plans and provide oversight of internal Areas of potentially significant risk
controls to ensure compliance with applicable laws, regulations For details of risks affecting the Group, see ‘Risk factors’
and internal GSK policies. The ROCC, responding to the Group on pages 50 to 53 and Note 44 to the financial statements,
policy referred to above, has provided the business units with ‘Legal proceedings’.
a framework for risk management and upward reporting of Effectiveness of controls
significant risks. Mitigation planning and identification of a
The internal control framework has been in operation for the
manager with overall responsibility for management of any given
whole of the year under review and continues to operate up to the
risk is a requirement.
date of approval of this report. The system of internal controls is
Risk Management and Compliance Boards (RMCBs) designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of not achieving
Risk Management and Compliance Boards (RMCBs) have been business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not
established in each of the major business units. Membership often absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
comprises members of the senior executive team of the respective
The Audit Committee receives reports on areas of significant
business unit, augmented by specialists where appropriate. The
risk to the Group and on related internal controls. Following
RMCBs oversee management of all risks that are considered
consideration of these reports, the Audit Committee reports
important for their respective business units, including those risks
annually to the Board on the effectiveness of controls. Such
that are designated as significant to GlaxoSmithKline as a whole,
controls may mitigate but cannot eliminate risks. In addition,
thus increasing the number of risks that are actively managed
there are areas of the Group’s business where it is necessary to
across the Group.
take risks to achieve a satisfactory return for shareholders, such as
Each RMCB regularly reports the status regarding its significant investment in R&D and in acquiring new products or businesses.
risks to the ROCC.
In these cases, it is the Group’s objective to apply its expertise in
Compliance functions the prudent management rather than elimination of risk.
In a number of risk areas, specific standards that meet or The Directors’ review relates to the company and its subsidiaries
exceed requirements of applicable law have been established. and does not extend to material associated undertakings, joint
Specialist audit and compliance functions (for example Corporate ventures or other investments.
Environment, Health & Safety Audit, Global Manufacturing
The Board, through the Audit Committee, has reviewed the
and Supply Audit and Risk Management, and Research and
assessment of risks and the internal control framework that
Development Global Quality and Compliance) assist in the
operates in GlaxoSmithKline and has considered the effectiveness
dissemination, implementation and audit of these standards. These
of the system of internal control in operation in the Group for the
audit functions are coordinated by a Corporate Assurance group
year covered by this report and up to the date of its approval by
reporting to the Corporate Compliance Officer.
the Board. The process followed by the Board in reviewing the
Corporate Ethics & Compliance (CEC) system of internal controls accords with the guidance on internal
The ROCC is also supported by the Corporate Ethics & Compliance control issued by the Turnbull Committee.
department which is responsible for supporting the development
and implementation of practices that facilitate employees’
compliance with laws and Group policy.
The thrust of the Group’s compliance effort is due diligence in
preventing and detecting misconduct or non-compliance with law
or regulation by promoting ethical behaviour, compliance with
all laws and regulations, corporate responsibility at all levels and
effective compliance systems.GSK Annual Report 2008 73
Report of the Directors
Corporate governance
continued
Committee reports
Financial & Accounting Experience
Board Committees report regularly to the Board on the
Mr Tom de Swaan • Chief Financial Officer of ABN AMRO until
performance of the activities they have been assigned.
31st December 2005
Audit Committee Report
• D etermined by the Board to be the Audit
Committee Financial Expert, as defined by the
Attendance at meetings
during 2008 Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 (Sarbanes-Oxley)
Full Quorate
Sir Deryck Maughan • A Partner of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co.
Members Committee member since meetings meetings
(KKR) and Chairman of KKR Japan
Mr Tom de Swaan 1st January 2006 6/6 5/5
• F ormer Chairman & CEO of Citigroup
(Chairman from
International and Vice Chairman of
1st September 2006)
Citigroup Inc.
Sir Deryck Maughan 21st January 2005 6/6 4/5
• Former Chairman and Co-Chief Executive
Dr Daniel Podolsky 1st January 2007 6/6 5/5 Officer of Salomon Smith Barney
Sir Ian Prosser 27th December 2000 6/6 4/5 • Former Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer of Salomon Brothers Inc.
Dr Ronaldo Schmitz 27th December 2007 6/6 5/5
Sir Robert Wilson 12th December 2003 6/6 4/5 Sir Ian Prosser • Former CFO and subsequently CEO of Bass plc
• Chartered Accountant
Other attendees at Committee meetings:
Dr Ronaldo Schmitz • Former Member of Glaxo Wellcome plc’s
• CEO
Audit Committee
• CFO
• Former Member of Executive Board of
• Chairman
Directors of Deutsche Bank AG
• General Counsel
• Former Head of Investment Banking of
• Head of Global Internal Audit
Deutsche Bank
• Company Secretary & Corporate Compliance Officer
• External Auditors. • Former member of the Executive Board of
Directors of BASF from 1980 to 1990. CFO
The Committee’s main responsibilities include:
of BASF from 1985 to 1990
• Reviewing the corporate accounting and financial reporting process • Former Chairman of the Committee from
• Monitoring the integrity of the financial statements April 2001 to September 2006
• Evaluating the system of internal control and management of risks
• MBA from INSEAD
• Overseeing activities of each of the Group’s compliance audit
functions and overseeing compliance with laws, regulations and Sir Robert Wilson • Economist
ethical codes of practice. • Chairman of BG Group plc
• R etired from Rio Tinto in 2003 where he held
The Committee’s oversight role requires it to address regularly the
Senior Management positions culminating in
relationships between management and the internal and external
his appointment as Executive Chairman
auditors and understand and monitor the reporting relationships
and tiers of accountability between them.
Scientific Expertise
The Committee receives regular reports from members of the CET Dr Daniel Podolsky • A world renowned researcher with advanced
and senior managers covering the key compliance activities of the knowledge of underlying mechanisms of disease
Group, including those concerning R&D, manufacturing, sales and and new therapies for gastrointestinal disorders
marketing and Environment, Health & Safety. • President of the University of Texas
Qualifications of Audit Committee Members Southwestern Medical Centre
Committee members, with the exception of Dr Podolsky, • F ormer Mallinkrodt Professor of Medicine
bring considerable financial and accounting experience to the and Chief of Gastroenterology at
Committee’s work. Members have past employment experience Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard
in either finance or accounting roles or comparable experience Medical School.
in corporate activities. Dr Podolsky’s background as a world
renowned researcher enables him to bring scientific expertise
to the Committee’s deliberations.74 GSK Annual Report 2008
Report of the Directors
Corporate governance
continued
In 2008, the Committee worked to a structured programme of The Audit Committee, management, internal auditors and the
activities, with standing items that the Committee is required to full Board work together to ensure the quality of the company’s
consider at each meeting together with other matters focused to corporate accounting and financial reporting. The Committee
coincide with key events of the annual financial reporting cycle: serves as the primary link between the Board and the external and
internal auditors. This facilitates the necessary independence from
External Auditors r eported on all critical accounting management and encourages the external and internal auditors to
policies, significant judgements and communicate freely and regularly with the Committee. In 2008,
practices used by the Group, alternative the Committee met both collectively and separately with the
accounting treatments which had been external auditors and the Head of Global Internal Audit, and the
discussed with management and their Corporate Compliance Officer without members of management
resultant conclusion, material written being present.
communications with management and
The Committee has primary responsibility for making a
any restrictions on access to information
recommendation to shareholders on the appointment,
CFO reported on the financial performance of reappointment and removal of the external auditors by annually
the company and on technical financial assessing the qualifications, expertise, resources and independence
and accounting matters of the external auditors and the effectiveness of the audit process.
General Counsel reported on material litigation In making its assessment, the Committee considers papers which
detail the relevant regulatory requirements relating to external
Company Secretary reported on corporate governance and
auditors and evaluates reports from the external auditors on their
& Corporate on the activities undertaken by the ROCC
compliance with the requirements. Where the external auditors
Compliance Officer
provide non-audit services, the Committee ensures that auditor
Heads of the the majority of the Heads of these groups objectivity and independence are safeguarded by a policy requiring
Group’s Compliance reported on their audit scope, annual pre-approval by the Committee for such services. These services
and Audit Groups coverage, audit resources and on the may include audit services, audit-related services, tax services and
results of audits conducted throughout other services. Pre-approval is detailed as to the particular service
the year or categories of services, and is subject to a specific budget.
Company Secretary, reported on matters that affected the The external auditors and management report regularly to the
as Chairman of quality and timely disclosure of financial Committee regarding the extent of services provided in accordance
the Disclosure and other material information to the with this pre-approval and the fees for the services performed.
Committee Board, to the public markets and to The Committee may also pre-approve additional services on a
shareholders. This enabled the Committee case-by-case basis. Expenditure on audit and non-audit services is
to review the clarity and completeness set out in Note 9 to the financial statements, ‘Operating profit’.
of the disclosures in the published
The guidelines set out in the company’s policy on engaging the
annual financial statements, interim
external auditors to provide non-audit services include ascertaining
reports, quarterly and preliminary results
that: the skills and experience of the external auditors make them
announcements and other formal
a suitable supplier of the non-audit services; adequate safeguards
announcements relating to financial
are in place so that the objectivity and independence of the audit
performance prior to their release by
are not compromised; and the fee levels relative to the annual
the Board.
audit fee are within the limits set by the Committee.
The company also has well-established policies, including a Code
of Ethics, which is available on its website, and a help-line facility
for the reporting and investigation of unlawful conduct.
No waivers to the Code were made in 2008.GSK Annual Report 2008 75
Report of the Directors
Corporate governance
continued
Nominations Committee Report When appointing new Executive Directors and CET members,
the Committee considers the skills, knowledge and experience
Attendance at required for the particular executive position. The Committee
meetings during
will consider potential external and internal candidates before
2008
recommending to the Board to approve the new appointment.
Full
Members Committee member since meetings All new Directors offer themselves for election at the company’s
next AGM. Their appointments are announced publicly.
Sir Christopher Gent 9th December 2004 3/3
(Chairman from The Committee recommended the appointment of Mr Larry Culp
1st January 2005)
and Sir Robert Wilson to the Nominations Committee in March 2008.
Mr Larry Culp 28th March 2008 2/2
The Committee also recommended to the Board the appointment of
Sir Ian Prosser 27th December 2000 2/3 Mr James Murdoch as a Non-Executive Director and as a member of the
(Committee Chairman Corporate Responsibility Committee with effect from 20th May 2009.
February-December 2003)
Additionally, on the Committee’s recommendation, the Board
Dr Ronaldo Schmitz 17th May 2004 3/3 approved the following changes which take effect on Sir Ian Prosser
Sir Robert Wilson 28th March 2008 2/2 and Dr Schmitz’s retirement from the Board at the conclusion of
the AGM in May 2009; Sir Robert Wilson will replace Sir Ian as the
Other attendees at Committee meetings: SID, Sir Crispin Davis will replace Sir Robert as the Chairman of the
Remuneration Committee, Professor Sir Roy Anderson will become
• CEO
a member of the Audit Committee and Sir Crispin and Sir Deryck
• Chief of Staff
Maughan will become members of the Nominations Committee.
• Head of HR
• Company Secretary. Remuneration Report
The Remuneration Report can be found on pages 78 to 98.
The Committee’s main responsibilities include proposing the
appointment of Board and Committee members. Corporate Responsibility Committee Report
During 2008, the Committee’s main focus was on the recruitment
Attendance at
of new Non-Executive Directors to refresh the Board. meetings during
2008
When recruiting Non-Executive Directors, the Committee considers Full
Members Committee member since meetings
the particular skills, knowledge and experience that would benefit
the Board most significantly for each appointment. Sir Christopher Gent 9th December 2004 3/3
(Chairman from
Broad selection criteria are used which focus on achieving a
1st January 2005)
balance between the representation of European, UK and US
markets, and having individuals with CEO experience and skills Dr Stephanie Burns 6th December 2007 3/3
developed in various sectors and specialities. During 2008, Dr Daniel Podolsky 1st July 2006 3/3
particular focus was placed upon recruiting replacements for Sir Ian Prosser 17th May 2004 3/3
Sir Ian Prosser and Dr Ronaldo Schmitz, who will retire at the AGM
Mr Tom de Swaan 1st July 2006 3/3
in 2009. The process continues into 2009, with the Committee
placing emphasis on candidates who are current CEOs or have
Following his appointment to the Board with effect from
had government or administration experience. Professional
20th May 2009, Mr James Murdoch will also become a member
search agencies are engaged specialising in the recruitment
of the Committee.
of high calibre Non-Executive Directors. Dossiers of potential
Non-Executive appointees are provided to the Committee and Other attendees at Committee meetings may include:
candidates are shortlisted for interview after considering their
• CEO
relevant qualifications.
• General Counsel
A customised induction process is conducted for each of the new • Head of Corporate Communications
Non-Executive Directors focusing on their particular experience & CommunityPartnerships
and taking account of their different backgrounds. This process • Head of Corporate Responsibility
includes meeting members of the CET and other senior executives • Chief of Staff
and visiting particular operational facilities of the Group. • Head of HR
• Company Secretary.76 GSK Annual Report 2008
Report of the Directors
Corporate governance
continued
The main responsibilities of the Corporate Responsibility NYSE rules
Committee are set out on page 67. The Committee has a rolling In general, the NYSE rules permit the company to follow UK corporate
agenda and receives reports from the members of the CET and governance practices instead of those applied in the USA, provided
senior managers to ensure that progress on meeting GSK’s that the company explains any significant variations. This explanation
Corporate Responsibility Principles is reviewed. Five Principles: is contained in the company’s Form 20-F filing, which can be accessed
access to medicines; standards of ethical conduct; research from the Securities and Exchange Commission’s (SEC) EDGAR
and innovation; employment practices; and global community database or via the company’s website. NYSE rules that came into
partnerships are reviewed annually. Other Principles are discussed effect in 2005 require the company to file annual and interim written
at least once every two years. The Committee also reviews and affirmations concerning the Audit Committee and the company’s
approves the Corporate Responsibility Report. statement on significant differences in corporate governance.
During the year the Committee reviewed the following areas: Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
Following a number of corporate and accounting scandals in the USA,
• access to medicines in developing countries
Congress passed the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Sarbanes-Oxley is
• community partnerships and investment a wide ranging piece of legislation concerned largely with financial
reporting and corporate governance.
• humanitarian donations
As recommended by the SEC, GSK has established a Disclosure
• employee volunteering
Committee. The Committee reports to the CEO, the CFO and
• sales and marketing practices to the Audit Committee. It is chaired by the Company Secretary
and the members consist of senior managers from finance, legal,
• disclosure of funding of medical education and patient
compliance, corporate communications and investor relations.
advocacy groups
External legal counsel and the external auditors are invited to attend
• product safety and communication of clinical trial results
its meetings periodically. It has responsibility for considering the
• R&D on diseases of the developing world materiality of information and, on a timely basis, determining the
disclosure of that information. It has responsibility for the timely
• use of animals in research
filing of reports with the SEC and the formal review of the Annual
• globalisation and externalisation of R&D Report and Form 20-F. In 2008, the Committee met 11 times.
• reduction of employee numbers through restructuring Sarbanes-Oxley requires that the Annual Report contains a
statement as to whether a member of the company’s Audit
• employee consultation requirements
Committee is an Audit Committee Financial Expert as defined by
• employment litigation in the USA. Sarbanes-Oxley. For a summary regarding the Board’s judgement
GSK’s Corporate Responsibility Report is available on the on this matter, refer to page 73. Additional disclosure requirements
company’s website. arise under Section 302 and Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley in
respect of disclosure controls and procedures, and internal control
The Combined Code
over financial reporting.
Throughout 2008, the company complied with the provisions of
the Combined Code, except as follows:
• B.1.1 – In designing schemes of performance-related
remuneration, the Remuneration Committee should
follow the provisions in Schedule A to the Code. Item 6 of
Schedule A states that, in general, only basic salary should
be pensionable. The company’s position is explained in the
Remuneration Report on pages 78 to 98.
US law and regulation
A number of provisions of US law and regulation apply to GSK
because the company’s shares are quoted on the NYSE in the form
of ADS.GSK Annual Report 2008 77
Report of the Directors
Corporate governance
continued
Section 302: Corporate responsibility for The CEO and CFO expect to complete these certifications and report
financial reports their conclusions on the effectiveness of disclosure controls and
Sarbanes-Oxley also introduced a requirement for the CEO and the procedures on 4th March 2009, following which the certificates will
CFO to complete formal certifications, confirming that: be filed with the SEC as part of the Group’s Form 20-F.
• they have each reviewed the Annual Report and Form 20-F Section 404: Management’s annual report on internal
control over financial reporting
• based on their knowledge, it contains no material misstatements
In accordance with the requirements of section 404 of Sarbanes-
or omissions
Oxley, the following report is provided by management in respect
• based on their knowledge, the financial statements and other of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting (as
financial information fairly present, in all material respects, the financial defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the US Securities
condition, results of operations and cash flows as of the dates, and for Exchange Act of 1934):
the periods, presented in the Annual Report and Form 20-F
• Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining
• they are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure adequate internal control over financial reporting for the Group.
controls and procedures that ensure that material information is Internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide
made known to them, have evaluated the effectiveness of these reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
controls and procedures as at the year-end, the results of such reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
evaluation being contained in the Annual Report and Form 20-F purposes in accordance with IFRS
• they are responsible for establishing and maintaining internal • Management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness
control over financial reporting that provides reasonable of internal control over financial reporting based on the
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and framework in Internal Control – Integrated Framework
the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles Treadway Commission
• they have disclosed in the Annual Report and Form 20-F any • There have been no changes in the Group’s internal control over
changes in internal controls over financial reporting during the financial reporting during 2008 that have materially affected,
period covered by the Annual Report and Form 20-F that have or are reasonably likely to affect materially, the Group’s internal
materially affected, or are reasonably likely to affect materially, control over financial reporting
the company’s internal control over financial reporting
• Management has assessed the effectiveness of internal control
• they have disclosed, based on their most recent evaluation of over financial reporting, as at 31st December 2008 and its
internal control over financial reporting, to the external auditors conclusion will be filed as part of the Group’s Form 20-F
and the Audit Committee, all significant deficiencies and material
• PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, which has audited the consolidated
weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over
financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31st
financial reporting which are reasonably likely to affect adversely
December 2008, has also assessed the effectiveness of the
the company’s ability to record, process, summarise and report
Group’s internal control over financial reporting under Auditing
financial information and any fraud (regardless of materiality)
Standard No. 5 of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
involving persons that have a significant role in the company’s
Board (United States). Their audit report will be filed with the
internal control over financial reporting.
Group’s Form 20-F.
The Group has carried out an evaluation under the supervision and
with the participation of the Group’s management, including the
CEO and CFO, of the effectiveness of the design and operation
of the Group’s disclosure controls and procedures as at 31st
December 2008.
There are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system
of disclosure controls and procedures, including the possibility of
human error and the circumvention or overriding of the controls
and procedures. Accordingly, even effective disclosure controls and
procedures can only provide reasonable assurance of achieving
their control objectives.78 GSK Annual Report 2008
Report of the Directors
Remuneration Report
Dear Shareholder
Managing the balance of quantum versus risk
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Committee’s
The current economic crisis has emphasised the need to ensure
Report on Remuneration for 2008 for which we will be seeking
that the potential quantum and the stretch of performance
approval from shareholders at our AGM in May.
targets do not implicitly encourage inappropriate behaviour.
Background and principles for proposed changes We are satisfied that our proposed structure does not do this.
Following the appointment of a new Chief Executive Officer It also improves alignment to UK investor expectations through
in May 2008, the Remuneration Committee decided to review the capping of long-term incentive plans.
senior executive arrangements to ensure that our remuneration
Reflecting perhaps the problems in the banking sector, several
policy supports the future direction of the business.
shareholders have raised the question of whether there should
Our current long-term incentive plans expire in 2010 and we be a ‘claw-back’ mechanism if and when problems arise years
are therefore reviewing them a year earlier than necessary. after awards have been made. In an effort to address this, we
The current economic climate, as well as the change from a propose that where there has been continuity of executive
US-based to a UK-based Chief Executive Officer, has provided responsibility (between initiation of an adverse event and its
an opportunity to make some fundamental changes to GSK’s emergence as a problem), the adverse event should be taken into
remuneration policy. The proposed changes are designed to account in assessing annual bonuses in the year the problem can
strengthen the alignment of GSK’s remuneration arrangements be identified. This means, of course, that we do not intend to
with views expressed by investors, particularly those in the UK, penalise an executive for the misjudgements of his predecessor
and to reflect better GSK’s UK home base. As such, the most as far as annual bonus is concerned, although the consequences
fundamental changes will apply largely to some of the company’s of an adverse event for the share price will inevitably reduce the
UK-based executives, including the Chief Executive Officer and potential value of long-term incentives.
the Chief Financial Officer.
Rebalancing long-term incentives
The following sets out the key principles for the review and Under the new policy those executives (including the Chief
highlights some of the main changes proposed: Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer) whose remuneration
is benchmarked primarily against a UK cross-industry comparator
Aligning pay with the relevant market
group, will not receive share option grants for the foreseeable
Remuneration for some of the UK-based members of the CET,
future. Instead, their long-term incentives will be focused on
including the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial
performance shares. In order to remain competitive against the
Officer, will be benchmarked primarily against a UK cross-
global pharmaceutical market, certain other Executives, including
industry comparator group although, for obvious reasons, we
the Chairman, Research & Development, will continue to receive
cannot ignore intra-industry comparison. Remuneration for the
share options, although their weighting in the overall package
Chairman, Research & Development, as well as certain other
will be kept under review.
roles, will continue to be benchmarked against other global
pharmaceutical companies to reflect the market in which GSK Annual Bonus Plan
competes for that talent. We will not operate the additional bonus flagged in the 2007
Remuneration Report, but will integrate it within the existing
As far as benchmarking the Chief Executive Officer role is
annual bonus structure. The maximum annual bonus opportunity
concerned, this shift from global pharmaceuticals to UK cross-
will remain at 200% of salary. We are reducing the 96%
industry companies represents a major change and will have
performance threshold for annual plans to 90%, reflecting more
a significant impact on the structure and quantum of his
stretching annual bonus plan targets.
remuneration. At this time, at least, the proposed remuneration
package of the Chief Executive Officer would be well below the In addition, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer
median of his pharmaceutical industry peers. (and other Executives who do not participate in the share option
plan) will also have the opportunity to invest up to half of their
annual bonus in GSK shares and this will be matched subject to
relative total shareholder return performance over three years.GSK Annual Report 2008 79
Report of the Directors
Remuneration Report
continued
Aligning performance measures to strategy
The performance conditions for the performance share plan will
be broadened so that the CET is incentivised against a range
of measures. It is intended that broadly half of the award will
continue to be based on relative total shareholder return against
other global pharmaceutical companies. The remaining half will
be based on an additional measure or measures to support GSK’s
strategy over the coming years.
For awards made in 2009, 60% of the award will remain on
relative total shareholder return against global pharmaceutical
companies. The remaining 40% will be targeted at generating
cash for investment and/or return to shareholders. Accordingly,
for 2009 awards, 40% will be subject to the achievement
of adjusted free cash flow targets. The Committee may
make adjustments for acquisitions and divestments, currency
movements and other distortions which may arise. Subject to
shareholder approval, the 2009 performance share awards will be
made following the AGM in May 2009. To satisfy concerns about
transparency, we will disclose the adjusted free cash flow targets
for the performance share awards in the announcement to the
London Stock Exchange each time an award is made.
Reflecting the long-term nature of the
pharmaceutical industry
To reflect better the long-term nature of the pharmaceutical
industry, the performance period for the performance shares
granted to members of the CET will be extended so that half
of the total shareholder return element of each award will
be measured over three years and half over four years. The
performance period for share options granted to CET members
in 2009 will similarly be extended.
In addition, to support further our emphasis on long-term
decision making, the timeframes for vesting of awards on
retirement and redundancy will be extended to maturity rather
than vesting in the year of departure.
Over time, the Committee would like to see the range of long-
term performance measures more fully reflect the company’s
strategic direction (eg turnover growth and R&D productivity).
However, before introducing such metrics, the Committee wants
to be satisfied that the measures are robust and not capable of
creating unintended behaviour.
The Committee believes that the new policy represents a
significant step forward in supporting the future direction of the
business and is in the best interests of shareholders.
Sir Robert Wilson
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
3rd March 200980 GSK Annual Report 2008
Report of the Directors
Remuneration Report
continued
This Directors’ Remuneration Report has been prepared During the course of 2008, the Committee’s principal focus was
in accordance with the Directors’ Remuneration Report to review the appropriateness of GSK’s current remuneration
Regulations 2002 (the Regulations) and meets the relevant policy in light of the appointment of a new CEO, changes to
requirements of the FSA Listing Rules. In accordance with the management team and GSK’s new strategy. This led to the
the Regulations, the following sections of the Remuneration development of a policy which will appropriately support the
Report are subject to audit: Annual remuneration; Non- business going forward, including the design of new long-term
Executive Directors’ remuneration; Share options; Incentive incentive (LTI) plans to replace the existing plans which expire
plans; performance criteria on the vested Performance Share in 2010.
Plan awards and Share options; and Pension benefits for which
Two quorate meetings were held during the year to approve the
the opinion thereon is expressed on page 182. The remaining
formal grant of share options and performance share awards in
sections are not subject to audit nor are the pages referred to
accordance with GSK’s remuneration policy.
from within the audited sections.
With the exceptions of Mr Bicknell (Company Secretary) and
The Remuneration Committee
Mrs Whyte (Deputy Company Secretary), no employees of the
Sir Robert Wilson has been Chairman of the Committee since company were involved in the conduct of Committee meetings.
17th May 2004. Sir Crispin Davis, Mr Culp, Sir Christopher Gent Dr Garnier (former CEO), Mr Witty (CEO), Mr Phelan (Chief of
and Dr Schmitz were members of the Committee throughout Staff) and Ms Thomas (Senior Vice President, Human Resources)
2008. The Board deemed all of the members of the Committee were invited to attend part of some meetings of the Committee
to be independent Non-Executive Directors in accordance with as required.
the Combined Code, with the exception of the Chairman of
Deloitte LLP has been appointed by the Committee to provide
the company, Sir Christopher Gent, who was independent on
it with independent advice on executive remuneration. They
appointment to the company.
provided other tax services to GSK during the year, but did not
The Committee met 7 times during 2008, with each member provide advice on executive remuneration matters other than to
attending as follows: the Committee. Towers Perrin provided additional market data
to the Committee.
Attendance at
full meetings Commitment to shareholders
Members Committee member since during 2008
The Committee engages in regular dialogue with shareholders
Sir Robert Wilson 1st January 2004 7/7
and holds an annual meeting with GSK’s largest investors
(Committee Chairman
to discuss and take feedback on its remuneration policy
since May 2004)
and any key developments during the year. In particular, the
Mr L Culp 1st January 2004 7/7
Committee will discuss any significant changes to the policy
Sir Crispin Davis 1st July 2003 7/7 or the measures used to assess performance. In line with this
Sir Christopher Gent 1st January 2007 7/7 commitment, GSK’s largest investors were consulted on the
proposed changes set out in this report.
Dr R Schmitz 25th May 2005 7/7
Summary of proposals
Sir Robert will step down as Chairman of the Committee
Until now, GSK’s remuneration policy has been based on
following the conclusion of the 2009 AGM and will be
the principle of achieving competitiveness with the global
succeeded by Sir Crispin Davis. Sir Robert will remain a member
pharmaceutical industry, which has been the primary pay
of the Committee.
comparator. The essential policy change underlying these new
The role of the Committee is to set the company’s remuneration proposals is that the Committee will decide on an individual
policy for Executive Directors and CET members (together the executive basis whether the primary pay comparator should be
Executives), ensuring that it is consistent with the company’s the global pharmaceutical sector, the UK-based large cross-
scale and scope of operations, supports the business strategy industry multinationals or some other comparator group.
and growth plans and helps drive the creation of shareholder For example, of the three Executive Directors, the Committee
value. In setting remuneration policy and levels for the proposes that the primary comparator group for the CEO and
most senior executives, the Committee gives consideration CFO, at this time, should be UK-based large cross-industry
to remuneration policy and levels for the wider employee multinationals. For the Chairman, Research & Development
population. The Committee’s full terms of reference are (Chairman, R&D), the comparator group should continue to be
available on the company’s website. the global pharmaceutical companies.GSK Annual Report 2008 81
Report of the Directors
Remuneration Report
continued
The following charts summarise the proposed changes to GSK’s remuneration policy and more particularly to GSK’s individual
remuneration elements.
Summary of proposed changes to GSK’s Remuneration Policy
Current Proposed policy for 2009
All Executive Directors CEO & CFO Chairman, R&D
Remuneration Global pharmaceutical UK-based large cross-industry Global pharmaceutical comparator
benchmarking comparator group comparator group group
Annual bonus Bonus based on financial and Some changes to calculation of bonus and target ranges to reflect
personal performance changes in target setting in line with new strategy
Operational bonus N/A Operational targets will be included within the overall annual bonus
framework and there will be no stand-alone operational bonus
LTI and share mix LTIs provided though a mix of Eligible for performance shares and Eligible for performance shares
c.60% performance shares and deferred annual bonus with and share options.
c.40% share options by value a performance based match. Not eligible for deferred annual
Will not receive share options bonus and performance based
for the foreseeable future match
Plan limits Levels of LTI awards set annually Annual individual limits will be introduced
Benchmarking Projected value Expected value
methodology
Key terms for remuneration elements
Current Proposed policy for 2009
Salary • Benchmarked against the global • Benchmarked against a UK cross-industry comparator
pharmaceutical comparator group group or the global pharmaceutical comparator group
or another comparator group as appropriate
Annual bonus • Most of the bonus is based on the achievement • In addition to the current targets, achievement of
of financial targets (based on Group profit before operational efficiency will also be taken into account
interest and tax and on business unit operating in determining the annual bonuses in respect of 2009
profit). There are R&D specific key performance and 2010
indicators for R&D employees. Individual
performance is also taken into account in
determining individual bonus payments
Performance • Based on relative total shareholder return (TSR) • 60% based on relative TSR against comparator group
Share against comparator group of 14 pharmaceutical currently comprising 12 pharmaceutical companies and
Plan (PSP) companies 40% based on adjusted free cash flow
• Measured over three years • TSR component measured half over three years and
• Further two-year holding period half over four years
• 35% vesting at median, with 100% vesting for • Adjusted free cash flow measured over three years
performance in line with the second company • Two-year holding period removed
• Three-month averaging period for TSR • For the TSR elements, 30% vesting at median, with
• Dividend equivalents 100% vesting for upper quartile performance
• For the cash flow element, 25% vesting at threshold,
rising to 100% for stretching performance exceeding
the set threshold by a specified margin
• Twelve-month averaging period for TSR
• Dividend equivalents
Share Option • Based on EPS growth relative to RPI • Intended only for certain Executives
Plan • Measured over three years • Based on EPS growth relative to RPI
• 50% vesting for threshold performance • Will be measured over three and/or four years
• 30% vesting for threshold performance
Deferred Annual N/A • Only for individuals not eligible for share options
Bonus Plan • 50% of bonus may be deferred
• Up to one-for-one match subject to relative TSR
performance over three years (vesting as for PSP)
• Dividend equivalents82 GSK Annual Report 2008
Report of the Directors
Remuneration Report
continued
Total remuneration benchmarking
1 CEO
The Committee reviews GSK’s total remuneration against
comparable companies on a regular basis, to ensure that 1 Salary
remuneration arrangements are competitive, are structured 2 Cash bonus
appropriately and deliver value for money for shareholders. Under 4 2 3 Deferred bonus including match
the new remuneration policy, the relevant comparator group(s) 4 Performance shares
will be determined for each individual Executive.
For benchmarking purposes, total remuneration incorporates base 3
salary, annual bonus (including any deferred element) and LTIs .
CFO
When setting pay, the Committee also takes into account pension
1
arrangements.
1 Salary
2 Cash bonus
UK cross-industry comparator group Global pharmaceutical comparator group 4 3 Deferred bonus including match
AngloAmerican France Sanofi-Aventis 2 4 Performance shares
AstraZeneca Switzerland Novartis
Barclays Roche Holdings
3
BG Group UK AstraZeneca
BHP Billiton USA Abbott Laboratories 1 Chairman, R&D
BP Amgen*
4
British American Tobacco Bristol-Myers Squibb 1 Salary
Diageo Eli Lilly 2 Cash bonus
HSBC Johnson & Johnson 2 3 Share options
Reckitt Benckiser Merck 4 Performance shares
Royal Dutch Shell Pfizer
Rio Tinto Schering-Plough
Standard Chartered Wyeth
3
Tesco
Unilever Base salary
Vodafone Base salaries are set by reference to the relevant comparator group
to secure the talent needed to deliver GSK’s strategic priorities.
* A mgen is included for benchmarking but not in the TSR comparator group.
Salary levels are reviewed annually and are influenced by the
Since 2004, GSK has used a projected value methodology to
Executive’s role and experience. The table below sets out current
benchmark remuneration. The principal reason for this was to
base salaries and those proposed for 2009.
recognise the difference in LTI arrangements and, in particular,
the less common use of performance targets in other global Mr Witty and Mr Heslop’s salary increases form part of the
pharmaceutical companies. wider changes proposed to their remuneration packages and, in
particular, reflect the move to benchmark remuneration against
Given the increased emphasis on benchmarking against UK
a UK cross-industry comparator group. Mr Witty’s proposed
companies and the increasing introduction of performance targets
salary increase also reflects the Committee’s assessment of his
for LTIs in the pharmaceutical comparators, the Committee
performance in his role since appointment. Dr Slaoui’s increase
has decided to move to an expected value benchmarking
reflects his progression within the role and is intended to bring
methodology. This approach provides a benchmark which takes
him more in line with the market. Salary increases typically take
all possible outcomes into account based on the probability of
effect in April 2009. However, as an integral part of the wider
achieving different performance levels.
remuneration policy, Mr Witty’s and Mr Heslop’s salary increases
will not be implemented until after the 2009 AGM.
Individual elements of remuneration
The balance between the fixed (base salary) and variable (annual
2008 base Effective date for 2009 base Effective date for
bonus and LTI) elements of remuneration varies depending on salary 2008 salary salary 2009 salary
performance. The charts opposite show the anticipated mix Mr Witty £850,000*22nd May 2008 £1,000,000 1st April 2009
between fixed and variable pay on an expected value basis under Mr Heslop £485,000 1st April 2008 £525,000 1st April 2009
the new remuneration policy. The actual mix may be higher or Dr Slaoui $825,000 1st April 2008 $875,000 1st April 2009
lower, depending on the performance of GSK and the individual.
* T his reflects Mr Witty’s base salary which took effect on his succession as CEO in
Typically, a significant portion (approximately 75%–85%) of an
May 2008.
Executive Director’s package is variable.GSK Annual Report 2008 83
Report of the Directors
Remuneration Report
continued
Annual bonus The strategic objectives set for 2008 focused in particular on the
The annual bonus is designed to drive the achievement of GSK’s continued development and launch of late-stage pipeline assets,
annual financial targets and personal objectives. delivery of commercial targets and execution of restructuring
programmes to simplify the operating model.
The maximum annual bonus for the CEO remains at 200% of
salary and the maximum bonuses for Executives other than the Bonus measures for R&D employees, including Dr Slaoui, are
CEO range between 100% and 200% of salary. There will be no linked to the pipeline. A robust governance structure has been
increases to the maximum bonus opportunity of 200% in 2009. established to ensure that the bonus payable fairly reflects R&D
productivity and performance as well as performance against profit
As part of the wider remuneration review, the Committee revised
targets. As the plan is relatively new, the Committee reviewed its
the annual bonus plan to strengthen the alignment to the new
operation during the year and decided that it should continue as
business strategy and budgeting process.
the annual bonus for R&D. The Committee will continue to keep
For 2009, the majority of the annual bonus opportunity will be its operation under review and may in future consider extending it
based on a formal review of performance against stretching to other Executives including the CEO.
financial targets based on Group profit before interest and tax
The Committee took into account GSK’s success in achieving the
and business unit operating profit targets, with the remainder
above objectives, as well as each individual’s performance, when
being based on achievements against individual objectives. Annual
determining the bonus awards for 2008. Actual bonus payments
bonuses will be calibrated to reflect the stretching targets which
are shown on page 90 and ranged from 86% to 118% of base
have been established to drive significant changes to GSK’s
salaries as at 31st December 2008.
business model. The bonus threshold will be 90% of target with
the maximum being payable for achievement of 110% of target.
LTIs
The reduction of the bonus threshold from 96% to 90% reflects
Currently, LTI awards are provided through a mix of performance
more stretching bonus targets.
shares and share options. GSK’s existing LTI plans (the performance
In the 2007 Remuneration Report, reference was made to the share and share option plans) expire in 2010 and in light of
possible introduction of additional bonuses to encourage delivery changes within the company, the Committee decided it was
of operational targets in 2009 and 2010. After further review, appropriate to review the terms of the LTI plans as part of the
the Committee determined not to increase the overall bonus wider remuneration review during 2008. The new long-term
opportunity and that these measures should be incorporated incentive plans will therefore be submitted for shareholder
within the existing overall bonus. approval at the 2009 AGM.
Bonus targets for the CEO are set by the Board. In setting the In line with the new remuneration policy based on individual
objectives for the CEO, the Board focuses on the strategies that market focus, and to provide better alignment to market practice,
have been developed for the company, which are set out on page it is intended that the CEO and the CFO will not receive share
5 of the Annual Report. For reasons of commercial sensitivity, option grants for the foreseeable future. Instead, their LTIs will
the specific objectives are kept confidential. Following the end be in the form of performance shares. They will also have the
of the financial year, the Board reviews the CEO’s performance opportunity to defer part of any bonus earned into shares and to
generally and against the set objectives, and the Committee then receive matching shares subject to the achievement of additional
determines the bonus payable. performance conditions. These changes are based on established
practices within the UK cross-industry comparator group.
For the other Executives, the CEO makes recommendations to
the Committee regarding performance against objectives. These The Chairman, R&D and certain other Executives will continue
recommendations are considered by the Committee in determining to receive share option grants as well as performance shares to
the level of bonuses payable. The Committee considered whether remain competitive against the global pharmaceutical market.
to reduce any individual Executive’s bonus award for 2008 to However, the use of share options will be kept under review and
reflect revised provisions relating to any prior year activities, and their relative importance may be reduced in the future. Share
determined that no current Executives were materially involved options will continue to be used to incentivise our employees
in the management of any relevant issues and therefore that below the CET.
no reduction of bonus payments would be appropriate. For
Under the proposed new LTI plans, the Committee may
future bonus years, the Committee will continue to review the
reduce grant or vesting levels if it determines that a participant
ongoing financial impact of any prior year activities and the role
has engaged in conduct which is contrary to the legitimate
of individual Executives in such activities, and the Committee may
expectations of the company for an employee in the
make appropriate adjustments to future individual bonus awards
participant’s position.
to reflect those circumstances.84 GSK Annual Report 2008
Report of the Directors
Remuneration Report
continued
Typically, performance shares and share options are delivered to US To provide a focus on sustained longer-term performance, the
resident executives in the form of ADS. Awards are delivered in the performance period will be extended so that half of the TSR
form of Ordinary Shares to executives resident in the UK and other element of each award will be measured over three years and half
countries. All awards are made under plans which incorporate over four years. The element based on adjusted free cash flow
dilution limits consistent with the guidelines provided by the will be measured over three years. There will be no retesting of
Association of British Insurers. Current estimated dilution from performance.
existing awards under all GSK employee share schemes made since
For the TSR element, the percentage vesting at median will be
the merger is approximately 6.7% of the company’s share capital
reduced from 35% to 30% to align better the remuneration policy
at 31st December 2008.
with shareholder expectations. Full vesting will take place for upper
The new plans are summarised in the relevant sections below quartile performance. For the adjusted free cash flow element, 25%
together with the basis on which awards will be made to the will vest for threshold performance, rising to 100% for stretching
Executives in 2009. performance exceeding the set threshold by a specified margin.
The graph below shows the TSR vesting schedule for awards to
a) Performance shares
be granted in 2009. Where GSK’s performance falls between two
The Performance Share Plan ensures focus on GSK’s long-term companies, vesting is calculated on a straight-line basis.
shareholder returns relative to other pharmaceutical companies
and on the delivery of GSK’s strategic priorities. Proportion vesting
100%
Under the plan, measurement of performance will be broadened
100%
so that the most senior team is incentivised against operational
measures aligned with GSK’s business strategy as well as TSR. TSR
75%
is considered to remain an appropriate comparative measure since
it focuses on the return to shareholders, is a well-understood and
tested mechanism to measure performance and allows comparison
between companies operating in different countries. Therefore, 50%
typically between 40% and 60% of any award made to Executives
will continue to be subject to relative TSR. The balance will be
based on strategic or operational measures to support the 25% 30%
business strategy.
2009 Awards
0%
Performance share awards to Executives for 2009 will be made
12 11 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
following approval of the new Performance Share Plan at the
TSR rank position
2009 AGM.
An individual annual limit on the maximum value of performance
For awards made in 2009, 60% of the award will be based
shares that may be granted to an individual in any one year will
on relative TSR against a group currently comprising 12 global
be introduced. Other than in exceptional circumstances, the
pharmaceutical companies.
maximum face value of performance shares that may be granted
In order to recognise the importance of effective working capital to an individual in any one year will be six times salary. It is
management and of generating cash, the remaining 40% will vest intended that the value of performance shares granted to the CEO
subject to the achievement of adjusted free cash flow targets. The in 2009 will be five times salary. The CFO will receive an award of
adjusted free cash flow target may be adjusted for material factors four times salary and the Chairman, R&D will receive an award of
which could distort free cash flow as a performance measure. 69,000 ADS.
These will typically include exchange rate movements and may
To provide a stable assessment of performance and to reflect
include legal and major taxation settlements and special pension
better the long-term nature of the pharmaceutical industry, the
contributions, which could materially distort this calculation in
TSR averaging period will be twelve months for awards from
either direction. The impact of any acquisition or divestment will
2009 onwards.
be quantified and adjusted for at the time of the event. Major
adjustments in the calculation will be disclosed to shareholders.
For the awards in 2009, the threshold free cash flow target will be
£13.5 billion, with maximum vesting for £16 billion.GSK Annual Report 2008 85
Report of the Directors
Remuneration Report
continued
To provide a closer link between shareholder returns and payments The vesting schedule for the 2009 awards is shown below.
to the Executives, notional dividends are reinvested and paid out
Proportion vesting
in proportion to the vesting of the award. The value of reinvested 100%
dividends has been incorporated into the benchmarking of
award levels. 85%
The Performance Share Plan awards granted to the Executive
Directors, excluding Dr Slaoui, in February 2006, with the 65%
performance period starting on 1st January 2006 and ending on
31st December 2008 did not vest as GSK’s TSR performance was
below median. The awards made to other senior executives in
2006, including Dr Slaoui (who was not on the CET at the time the
awards were made), were dependent in part on TSR performance 30%
and in part on EPS performance. The TSR element did not vest, but
the EPS element vested in full.
The vesting tables for recent performance share awards are shown
on page 96.
0% RPI+3% RPI+4% RPI+5% RPI+6 %
b) Share options EPS target
GSK’s share option plan is designed to ensure GSK remains An individual annual limit on the maximum value of share
competitive against its global pharmaceutical peers. It also options that may be granted to an individual in any one year will
incentivises sustained delivery of earnings growth and shareholder be introduced. Where an individual receives an award of both
value creation. performance shares and share options, the expected value of share
options granted in any year will typically not exceed 60% of the
As noted earlier, the Chairman, R&D as well as certain other
expected value of the aggregate LTIs. Where an individual is not
Executives will continue to be granted share options but will not
granted performance shares, the annual award limit for share
participate in the new deferred annual bonus.
options will be calculated on an equivalent basis to that which
The CEO and CFO will not receive share options for the
applies to the performance share plan.
foreseeable future.
The Committee will set out the basis of its decision if it considers it
As part of the wider review, the Committee reviewed the
appropriate to make any significant adjustments to the calculation
performance measure used for share options and concluded that
of EPS for performance measurement purposes.
EPS remains an important measure of success. The vesting of
share options granted to Executives will therefore continue to be No significant adjustments were made in respect of the share
linked to the achievement of compound annual EPS growth over options granted in February 2006, of which 50.7% vested.
the performance period. Targets will be reviewed and set annually
c) Deferred annual bonus
taking into account company and market expectations.
A new deferred annual bonus plan will be introduced for those
2009 Awards
Executives who will no longer receive share option grants,
The targets for the 2009 awards will remain unchanged. including the CEO and the CFO. The plan is designed to encourage
long-term shareholding and to help drive long-term shareholder
To reflect better the long-term nature of the pharmaceutical
returns relative to other global pharmaceutical companies.
industry, the performance period will be extended so that half of
each share option grant will be measured over three years and Up to 50% of any annual bonus earned may be invested in shares
half will be measured over four years. There will be no retesting of and will be deferred for three years. The company will match these
performance. shares up to one-for-one depending on the company’s relative TSR
over this period. The performance measure and vesting schedule
From 2009, the percentage vesting for threshold performance
will be the same as under the three-year TSR component of the
will be reduced from 50% to 30% of the award to reflect better
performance share plan described above.
shareholder expectations. Threshold vesting will take place for
compound EPS growth of RPI plus 3% p.a. with full vesting for Dividend equivalents will accrue and be delivered in respect of any
compound EPS growth of RPI plus 6% p.a. EPS is measured at CER invested shares and matching shares that vest.
in line with GSK’s practice to measure performance on a CER basis.86 GSK Annual Report 2008
Report of the Directors
Remuneration Report
continued
GSK’s LTI performance conditions continue to be challenging as Executives participating in the defined contribution plan will now
is demonstrated by the table below. TSR has been an important benefit from a company contribution of 15%–20% of base salary
part of the LTI measures for many years. This has been maintained depending on grade. They will also have the opportunity to receive
under the proposed policy and, for the reasons set out on page up to a further 4% in matched contributions in line with policy for
84, it remains the primary measure under the PSP despite the TSR all other members of the pension plan.
element not paying out.
The legacy final salary plans provide for up to two-thirds of final
The following table shows the vesting levels of GSK’s Performance salary at age 60. For employees subject to the cap, benefits
Share and Share Option awards to Executives since 2001. A total in excess of the cap are currently provided through unfunded
vesting percentage of 0% indicates that GSK’s TSR performance arrangements. Under the legacy final salary plans, actuarial
was below the median of the comparator group for that reduction factors apply where a participant leaves employment
performance period. of his/her own accord before the age of 60. If employment is
terminated by the company other than for cause the reduction
Share factors will not apply in the same way as for all other members of
Performance Share Plan Option
Plan the legacy final salary plans.
Vesting Vesting Vesting
Performance under TSR under EPS Total under EPS b) US pension arrangements
period measure % measure % vesting % measure %
In the USA, GSK operates a US Cash Balance Plan which provides
2001 01/01/02 – 31/12/04 0 100 50 100
for an annual contribution and interest on the sum accumulated in
2002 01/01/03 – 31/12/05 0 100 50 100
the cash balance plan but with no contractual promise to provide
2003 01/01/04 – 31/12/06 0 – 0 100
specific levels of retirement income. The plan incorporates an
2004 01/01/05 – 31/12/07 38.47 – 38.47 100
2006 01/01/06 – 31/12/08 0 – 0 50.7 Executive Pension Credit for senior US executives. Contribution
rates under the plan range from 15% to 38% of base salary
The performance measure for PSP awards for Executives was changed to exclude EPS
depending on grade. All current senior US executives are eligible
following the Remuneration Review during 2003. No award was made during 2005
for the new executive Pension Credit.
due to a change in the award cycle.
For capped employees in the USA, benefits above the cap are
Pensions
provided through an unfunded non-qualified plan.
The Executives participate in GSK senior executive pension plans.
The pension arrangements are structured in accordance with the
plans operated for Executives in the country in which they are
likely to retire. Details of individual arrangements for the Executive
Directors are set out on page 97.
New Executives to GSK will be eligible for either a defined
contribution scheme or a cash balance plan. Existing obligations
under defined benefit schemes in the UK will continue to
be honoured.
During the year, the Committee reviewed the competitiveness of
its pension policy for new employees to ensure that it remains
competitive and enables the company to attract the talent required
to run the business successfully. The review highlighted that the
defined contribution pension policy was uncompetitive for UK
Executives. The Committee therefore made some changes to align
this better to evolving practice in the wider market.
a) UK pension arrangements
The company currently operates a defined contribution plan,
and legacy final salary plans which are closed to new entrants.
Newly hired Executives in the UK will participate in the defined
contribution plan.GSK Annual Report 2008 87
Report of the Directors
Remuneration Report
continued
Share ownership requirements Executive Director terms, conditions and remuneration
To align the interests of Executives with those of shareholders,
Executive Director contracts
Executives are required to build up and maintain significant
The policy set out below provides the framework for contracts for
holdings of shares in GSK over time. The CEO is required to build a
Executive Directors.
shareholding to the value of four times base salary. Other Executive
Directors are required to build a value of three times base salary
Notice period on 12 calendar months
and other members of the CET a value of two times base salary.
termination by the
Shareholdings for the purpose of share ownership requirements employing company or
executive
(SOR) as at 31st December 2008 were:
Termination payment 1 x annual salary and
Holding for SOR purposes 1 x annual ‘on-target’ bonus1
No mitigation required2
Mr Witty 73,753 Ordinary Shares
Mr Heslop 47,750 Ordinary Shares Vesting of LTIs Rules of relevant incentive plan3
Dr Slaoui 49,799 Ordinary Shares
Pension Based on existing arrangements and
Executives are required to continue to satisfy these shareholding terms of the relevant pension plan
requirements for a minimum of twelve months following retirement
Non-compete clause 12 months from termination
from the company to support the long-term nature of the business.
notice date2
As at 31st December 2008, Dr Garnier’s holding was in excess of the
share ownership requirements. 1 M r Witty’s target bonus is 125% of salary, Dr Slaoui’s is 85% and Mr Heslop’s is
75% of salary. When reviewing the policy for the level of severance payments,
Other remuneration elements the Committee considered shareholder and Department for Business Enterprise
The Executives participate in various all-employee share plans in & Regulatory Reform guidance. However, it determined that in line with
competitive practice it is appropriate to provide for the payment of salary and
either the UK or the USA.
target bonus on termination.
The Sharesave plan and the ShareReward plan are UK HM Revenue 2 T he imposition of a 12-month non-compete period (and a non-solicitation
& Customs approved plans open to all UK employees on the same restriction) on the Executives is considered vitally important by the company in
order to protect the Group’s intellectual property and staff. In light of the non-
terms. Mr Witty and Mr Heslop are members of the Sharesave plan.
compete clause and competitor practice, the Committee believes that it would
Mr Witty contributes £250 a month into the plan and, up until the not be appropriate to provide for mitigation in the contracts.
maturity of his savings contract in December 2008, Mr Heslop also
3 A s approved by shareholders of GlaxoSmithKline, Glaxo Wellcome and
contributed £250 a month into the plan. This provides them with the SmithKline Beecham, as appropriate.
option to buy shares at the end of the three-year savings period in
The following table sets out the details of the Executive Directors’
line with the opportunity available to all UK employees.
service contracts:
Mr Witty and Mr Heslop also contribute £125 per month to buy
shares under the ShareReward plan. The company matches the Current Directors Date of contract Effective date Expiry date
number of shares bought each month.
Mr A Witty* 18.06.08 22.05.08 31.08.24
The Executives also receive other benefits including healthcare Mr J Heslop 16.03.05 01.04.05 31.01.14
(medical and dental), personal financial advice and life assurance. Dr M Slaoui 16.05.06 01.06.06 01.08.19
The cash value of the benefits received by the Executive Directors in
* M r Witty’s contract was renewed in June 2008 following his appointment
2008 is shown on page 90. as CEO.
On 19th February 2008, the company made a conditional award of No termination payments will be made in respect of any part of a
111,750 ADS to Mr Viehbacher, with vesting subject to his continued notice period extending beyond the contract expiry date.
employment with GSK and the Committee’s assessment of his
performance over the vesting period. Following Mr Viehbacher’s
resignation on 8th September 2008 the award lapsed.88 GSK Annual Report 2008
Report of the Directors
Remuneration Report
continued
Other entitlements Non-Executive Director terms, conditions and fees
In addition to the contractual provisions outlined above, in the event Non-Executive Directors of GlaxoSmithKline do not have
that Executive Directors’ service agreements are terminated by their service contracts but instead have letters of appointment under
employing company, the following will apply: which it is agreed that they serve the company as a Non-
Executive Director until the conclusion of the AGM following
• in the case of outstanding awards under the GlaxoSmithKline
the third anniversary of their appointment. In each case this
Annual Investment Plan, provided that their agreement is
can be extended for a further term of three years by mutual
terminated other than for cause, any deferred amount, and
agreement. No Directors serve a term longer than three years
any income and gains, are automatically distributed as soon as
without offering themselves for re-election by the shareholders.
administratively practicable after termination. If they resign, retire
or the termination is for cause, then any deferred amount is not The following table shows the date of the initial letter of
distributed until the end of the minimum three-year deferral period appointment of each Non-Executive Director:
• in line with the policy applicable to US senior executives,
Non-Executive Director Date of letter of appointment
Dr Garnier is entitled to receive continuing medical and dental
insurance after retirement. Dr Slaoui is a member of the same plan Professor Sir Roy Anderson 28.09.07
and may become eligible, at a future date, to receive continuing Dr S Burns 12.02.07
medical and dental cover into retirement. Mr L Culp 09.06.03
Sir Crispin Davis 09.06.03
Following the merger, those participants in the legacy share option
Sir Deryck Maughan 26.05.04
schemes who elected to exchange their legacy options for options Mr James Murdoch 26.02.09
over GlaxoSmithKline shares will receive an additional cash benefit Dr D Podolsky 03.07.06
equal to 10% of the grant price of the original option. This additional Sir Ian Prosser 19.06.00
benefit is triggered when the new option is exercised or lapses. To Dr R Schmitz 19.06.00
qualify for this additional cash benefit, participants had to retain their Mr T de Swaan 21.12.05
options until at least the second anniversary of the effective date of Sir Robert Wilson 09.06.03
the merger.
The fee structures for the Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman
Outside appointments for Executive Directors were reviewed during the year and some changes were made by the
Any outside appointments must be approved by the Chairman on Board to ensure that these remained competitive. The company aims
behalf of the Board. It is the company’s policy that remuneration to provide Non-Executive Directors with fees that are competitive
earned from such appointments may be kept by the individual with other companies of equivalent size and complexity. Fees
Executive Director. applying from 2008 are as follows:
Per annum
Standard annual cash retainer fee £75,000
Supplemental fees
Senior Independent Director, the Audit Committee £30,000
Chairman and Scientific/Medical Experts
Chairman of the Remuneration and Corporate £20,000
Responsibility Committee
Non-Executive Director undertaking £7,500
intercontinental travel to meetings per meetingGSK Annual Report 2008 89
Report of the Directors
Remuneration Report
continued
Exchange rate TSR performance graph
Fees that are paid in US dollars were converted at a rate of The following graph sets out the performance of the company
£1/US$1.8162 for the period from 1st January to 31st March relative to the FTSE 100 Index of which the company is a
2008, being the exchange rate that applied on 29th July 2004 constituent and to the pharmaceutical performance comparator
when the fee arrangements were initially approved by the group from 1st January 2003 to 31st December 2008. The graph
Board. Following the approval of the new fee arrangements, has been prepared in accordance with the Regulations and is not
the exchange rate applicable was set by the Board at an indication of the likely vesting of awards granted under any of
£1/US$1.9918. This rate applied from 1st April to the company’s incentive plans.
31st December 2008.
TSR PERFORMANCE
Non-Executive Directors’ share allocation plan
To enhance the link between Directors and shareholders 200
GlaxoSmithKline requires Non-Executive Directors to receive
a significant part of their fees in the form of shares. At least
175
25% of the Non-Executive Directors’ total fees, excluding the
Chairman, are paid in the form of shares or ADS and allocated
to a share account. The Non-Executive Directors may also take
150
the opportunity to invest part or all of the balance of their fees
into the same share account.
125
The shares or ADS which are notionally awarded to the Non-
Executive Directors and allocated to their interest accounts
are included within the Directors’ interests tables on page 92. 100
The accumulated balance of these shares or ADS, together
with notional dividends subsequently reinvested, are not paid
75
out to the Non-Executive Directors until retirement from the
Board. Upon retirement, the Non-Executive Directors will receive 31/12/03 31/12/04 31/12/05 31/12/06 31/12/ 07 31/12/ 08
either the shares or ADS or a cash amount equal to the value GlaxoSmithKline Total Return Index
of the shares or ADS at the date of retirement. Non-Executive GlaxoSmithKline Pharma Peers Return Index
Directors are not entitled to compensation if their appointment FTSE 100 Total Return Index
is terminated.
Chairman Directors and Senior Management remuneration
Sir Christopher Gent’s letter of appointment to the Board was The following tables set out for the Directors of GlaxoSmithKline
dated 26th May 2004, under which it was agreed that he plc the remuneration earned in 2008, their interests in shares of
would serve the company as Deputy Chairman until GlaxoSmithKline plc, their interests in share options and incentive
31st December 2004 and from 1st January 2005 as Chairman plans and their pension benefits. The members of the CET also
until the conclusion of the AGM following the third anniversary participate in the same remuneration plans as the Executive
of his appointment. This was extended for a further term of Directors. The aggregate remuneration and interests of the
three years by mutual agreement. Directors and Senior Management are also provided.
The Chairman’s fees were increased from £460,000 to
£540,000 per annum plus an allocation of shares to the value
of £135,000 per annum (previously £115,000) with effect from
1st April 2008. This was in line with GSK’s policy to ensure Non-
Executive Directors’ fees remained competitive.90 GSK Annual Report 2008
Report of the Directors
Remuneration Report
continued
Annual remuneration
2008 2007
Total Total
Fees and Other Annual annual Fees and Other Annual annual
salary benefits bonus remuneration salary benefits bonus remuneration
Footnote 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000
Executive Directors
Mr A Witty a,b £687 £92 £999 £1,778 – – – –
Mr J Heslop b £476 £32 £418 £926 £438 £16 £410 £864
Dr M Slaoui c $805 $405 $942 $2,152 $701 $321 $843 $1,865
Non-Executive Directors
Professor Sir Roy Anderson £116 – – £116 £23 – – £23
Sir Crispin Davis £86 – – £86 £70 – – £70
Sir Christopher Gent £650 £1 – £651 £575 £1 – £576
Sir Ian Prosser £111 – – £111 £95 – – £95
Dr R Schmitz £86 – – £86 £70 – – £70
Mr T de Swaan £116 – – £116 £100 – – £100
Sir Robert Wilson £106 – – £106 £90 – – £90
Dr S Burns $194 – – $194 $124 – – $124
Mr L Culp $179 – – $179 $127 – – $127
Sir Deryck Maughan $179 – – $179 $136 – – $136
Dr D Podolsky $252 – – $252 $191 – – $191
Former Directors
Mr J Coombe – £3 – £3 – £69 – £69
Dr M Barzach d £71 – – £71 £56 – – £56
Sir Richard Sykes – – – – – £1 – £1
Dr JP Garnier b,c $756 $1,586 $759 $3,101 $1,810 $1,516 $2,709 $6,035
Mr C Viehbacher f $687 $123 – $810 – – – –
Dr T Yamada b – $2,243 – $2,243 – $250 – $250
Dr L Shapiro e $85 – – $85 $85 – – $85
Total remuneration £4,201 £2,483 £2,336 £9,020 £3,104 £1,131 £2,186 £6,421
Analysed as:
Executive Directors £1,598 £343 £1,926 £3,867 £789 £177 £831 £1,797
Non-Executive Directors £1,706 £1 – £1,707 £1,312 £1 – £1,313
Former Directors £897 £2,139 £410 £3,446 £1,003 £953 £1,355 £3,311
Total remuneration £4,201 £2,483 £2,336 £9,020 £3,104 £1,131 £2,186 £6,421
Remuneration for Directors on the US payroll is reported in Dollars. Dollar amounts are included in the totals based on conversion to Sterling at the average exchange rates
for each year.
a) M r Witty joined the Board on 31st January 2008 and his remuneration is disclosed from this date.
b) F ollowing the merger, and in order to encourage employees to convert their non-savings related options held over Glaxo Wellcome or SmithKline Beecham shares or ADS,
for options over GlaxoSmithKline shares or ADS, employees were granted an additional cash benefit equal to 10% of the grant price of the original option. This additional
benefit, known as the Exchange Offer Incentive (EOI), is only payable when the new option is exercised or lapses. To qualify for this additional cash benefit, participants
had to retain these options until at least the second anniversary of the effective date of the merger. During the year, Mr Witty received £9,374 in EOI payments as a
result of options granted to him in March 1998 lapsing and Mr Heslop received £14,499 as a result of options granted to him in July 1998 lapsing. Dr Garnier received
$1,227,599 (2007 – $1,132,994), Mr Viehbacher received $50,744 and Dr Yamada received $2,225,018 (2007 – $184,516).
c) D r Garnier retired as a Director on 21st May 2008 and retired from the company on 31st May 2008. He is a Non-Executive Director of United Technologies Corporation,
in respect of which he received $89,651 up to the end of May 2008 (2007 – $230,000) in the form of deferred stock units which is not included above. Dr Slaoui is a
Non-Executive Director of the Agency for Science, Technology and Research (A*STAR) in respect of which he received $3,961 during 2008 (2007 – $667) which are not
included above.
d) D r Barzach received fees of €89,700 (2007 – €81,933) from GlaxoSmithKline France for healthcare consultancy provided. These are included within fees and salary above.
e) Dr Shapiro retired from the Board on 17th May 2006 and stepped down as a member of GlaxoSmithKline’s Scientific Advisory Board on 21st July 2008. During 2008 she
received fees of $85,000 (2007 – $85,000), of which $30,000 (2007 – $30,000) was in the form of ADS. These are included within fees and salary above.
f) M r Viehbacher was appointed to the Board on 31st January 2008 and his remuneration is disclosed from this date. He resigned from the Board on 8th September 2008.
None of the above Directors received reimbursement for expenses during the year requiring separate disclosure as required by the Regulations.GSK Annual Report 2008 91
Report of the Directors
Remuneration Report
continued
Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration
2008 2007
Total Cash Shares/ADS Total Cash Shares/ADS
Fees 000 000 000 000 000 000
Current Non-Executive Directors
Professor Sir Roy Anderson £116 £87 £29 £23 £17 £6
Sir Crispin Davis £86 – £86 £70 – £70
Sir Christopher Gent £650 £520 £130 £575 £460 £115
Sir Ian Prosser £111 £56 £55 £95 £48 £47
Dr R Schmitz £86 £51 £35 £70 £42 £28
Mr T de Swaan £116 £87 £29 £100 £75 £25
Sir Robert Wilson £106 £79 £27 £90 £68 £22
Dr S Burns $194 $97 $97 $124 $62 $62
Mr L Culp $179 – $179 $127 – $127
Sir Deryck Maughan $179 – $179 $136 – $136
Dr D Podolsky $252 $126 $126 $191 $96 $95
Total Remuneration £1,706 £1,001 £705 £1,312 £789 £523
The table above sets out the remuneration received as Non-Executive Directors of GlaxoSmithKline.
Non-Executive Directors are required to take at least a part of their total fees in the form of shares allocated to a share account which is
not paid out until retirement from the Board (see page 89 for further details). The total value of these shares and ADS as at the date of
award, together with the cash payment, forms their total fees, which are included within the Annual remuneration table under ‘Fees and
salary’. The table above sets out the value of their fees received in the form of cash and shares and ADS.
The table below sets out the accumulated number of shares and ADS held by the Non-Executive Directors in relation to their fees received
as Board members as at 31st December 2008, together with the movements in their accounts over the year.
Number of shares and ADS
Dividends
Non-Executive Directors’ share arrangements At 31.12.07 Elected reinvested At 31.12.08
Current Non-Executive Directors
Shares
Professor Sir Roy Anderson 438 2,526 37 3,001
Sir Crispin Davis 24,069 7,511 1,103 32,683
Sir Christopher Gent 27,153 11,192 1,244 39,589
Sir Ian Prosser 24,861 4,828 1,113 30,802
Dr R Schmitz 19,639 3,005 875 23,519
Mr T de Swaan 3,156 2,526 102 5,784
Sir Robert Wilson 6,607 2,310 304 9,221
ADS
Dr S Burns 1,184 2,378 83 3,645
Mr L Culp 11,747 4,347 728 16,822
Sir Deryck Maughan 9,800 4,347 609 14,756
Dr D Podolsky 2,796 3,084 184 6,06492 GSK Annual Report 2008
Report of the Directors
Remuneration Report
continued
Directors’ interests
The following interests of the Directors of the company and their connected persons are shown in accordance with the Listing Rules.
Shares ADS
24th February 31st December 1st January 24th February 31st December 1st January
Footnote 2009 2008 2008 2009 2008 2008
Executive Directors
Mr A Witty a,c 74,535 73,753 51,740 – – –
Mr J Heslop c 48,304 47,750 41,529 – – –
Dr M Slaoui b 59,518 48,636 40,961 485 411 286
Non-Executive Directors
Professor Sir Roy Anderson d 3,001 3,001 438 – – –
Dr S Burns d 44 44 44 3,805 3,805 1,344
Mr L Culp d – – – 16,822 16,822 11,747
Sir Crispin Davis d 39,443 39,443 29,236 – – –
Sir Christopher Gent d 39,589 39,589 27,153 – – –
Sir Deryck Maughan d – – – 14,756 14,756 9,800
Dr D Podolsky d – – – 6,065 6,065 2,796
Sir Ian Prosser d 31,712 31,712 25,771 – – –
Dr R Schmitz d 29,199 29,199 25,319 – – –
Mr T de Swaan d 5,784 5,784 3,156 – – –
Sir Robert Wilson d 15,349 15,349 12,736 – – –
One GlaxoSmithKline ADS represents two GlaxoSmithKline shares. The interests of the above-mentioned Directors at 24th February 2009 reflect the change between the year-
end and that date.
a) M r Witty joined the Board on 31st January 2008 and his holdings are disclosed from this date.
b) I ncludes ADS purchased in the GlaxoSmithKline Stock Fund within the US Retirement Savings Plan and US Executive Supplemental Savings Plan.
c) I ncludes shares purchased through the GlaxoSmithKline ShareReward Plan for Mr Heslop totalling 1,853 at 31st December 2008 (31st December 2007 – 1,523) and 1,911
shares at 24th February 2009 and Mr Witty totalling 1,853 at 31st December 2008 and 1,911 shares at 24th February 2009.
d) I ncludes shares and ADS received as part or all of their fees, as described under Non-Executive Directors’ share allocation plan on page 89. Dividends received on these shares
and ADS were converted to shares and ADS as at 31st December 2008.
Share options
Options – Shares Granted
Footnote At 31.12.07 Date of grant Exercise period Grant price Number Exercised Lapsed At 31.12.08
Mr A Witty a,c 999,244 19.02.08 19.02.11 – 18.02.18 £11.47 525,000 – 5,630 1,664,623
23.07.08 23.07.11 – 22.07.18 £12.21 145,000
01.12.08 01.12.11 – 31.05.15 £9.51 1,009
Mr J Heslop c 785,254 19.02.08 19.02.11 – 18.02.18 £11.47 242,750 – 7,643 1,020,361
Dr M Slaoui b 170,712 – – – – – 170,712
Mr C Viehbacher d 778,367 – – – – 778,367 –
Options – ADS Granted
At 31.12.07 Date of grant Exercise period Grant price Number Exercised Lapsed At 31.12.08
Dr M Slaoui b,c 162,320 19.02.08 19.02.11 – 18.02.18 $44.75 162,320 – – 324,640
Dr JP Garnier e 4,453,448 – – – – – 225,324 4,228,124
Mr C Viehbacher d 364,000 19.02.08 19.02.11 – 18.02.18 $44.75 97,750 – 461,750 –
a) M r Witty joined the Board on 31st January 2008 and his options are disclosed from this date.
b) These details include the interests of Dr Slaoui’s connected person who is also an employee of GSK.
c) A s part of the main option grant that occurred on 17th February 2009, Dr Slaoui and his connected person were awarded 164,690 ADS options with a grant price of $33.42.
The options granted to Dr Slaoui will vest in two parts, with 50% of awards vesting in February 2012 and the remaining 50% vesting in February 2013. In line with the new
remuneration policy, Mr Witty and Mr Heslop will not receive share options for the forseeable future.
d) M r Viehbacher joined the Board on 31st January 2008 and his options are disclosed above from this date until 8th September 2008 when he resigned from the Board. His
unvested options lapsed on 1st December 2008 when he left the company.
e) Dr Garnier retired from the Board on 21st May 2008 and the closing balance of his options is disclosed as at that date.GSK Annual Report 2008 93
Report of the Directors
Remuneration Report
continued
For those options outstanding at 31st December 2008, the earliest and latest vesting and lapse dates for options above and below the
market price for a GlaxoSmithKline share at the year-end are given in the table below.
Weighted average Vesting date Lapse date
Mr A Witty grant price Number earliest latest earliest latest
Options above market price at year-end: vested £17.17 234,298 24.03.02 28.11.04 23.03.09 27.11.11
unvested £14.78 373,000 21.02.09 20.02.10 20.02.16 19.02.17
Options below market price at year-end: vested £11.85 386,316 03.12.05 27.10.08 27.04.09 01.12.14
unvested £11.63 671,009 18.02.11 01.12.11 31.05.12 21.07.18
Total share options as at 31st December 2008 £13.17 1,664,623
Weighted average Vesting date Lapse date
Mr J Heslop grant price Number earliest latest earliest latest
Options above market price at year-end: vested £16.96 186,795 24.03.02 28.11.04 22.03.09 27.11.11
unvested £14.78 473,750 21.02.09 20.02.10 20.02.16 19.02.17
Options below market price at year-end: vested £11.91 117,066 28.10.06 27.10.08 27.04.09 01.12.14
unvested £11.47 242,750 19.02.11 19.02.11 18.02.18 18.02.18
Total share options as at 31st December 2008 £14.06 1,020,361
Weighted average Vesting date Lapse date
Dr M Slaoui grant price Number earliest latest earliest latest
Options above market price at year-end: vested £18.56 15,522 24.11.02 24.11.02 23.11.09 23.11.09
unvested £14.68 73,340 21.02.09 21.02.09 20.02.16 20.02.16
Options below market price at year-end: vested £11.59 81,850 03.12.05 02.12.07 02.10.12 01.12.14
Total share options as at 31st December 2008 £13.55 170,712
Options above market price at year-end: unvested $51.38 324,640 20.02.10 19.02.11 19.02.17 18.02.18
Total ADS options as at 31st December 2008 $51.38 324,640
This includes those share options held by Dr Slaoui’s connected person, who is also an employee of GSK.
Weighted average Vesting date Lapse date
Dr JP Garnier grant price Number earliest latest earliest latest
Options above market price at year-end: vested $52.13 2,728,124 15.03.02 02.12.07 14.03.09 01.12.14
unvested $54.68 1,050,000 21.02.09 20.02.10 20.02.16 19.02.17
Options below market price at year-end: vested $37.25 450,000 03.12.05 03.12.05 02.12.12 02.12.12
Total ADS options as at 21st May 2008 $51.18 4,228,12494 GSK Annual Report 2008
Report of the Directors
Remuneration Report
continued
GSK grants share options to Executive Directors and Senior Managers on an annual basis. The Directors hold these options under the
various share option plans referred to in Note 42 to the financial statements, ‘Employee share schemes’. None of the Non-Executive
Directors had an interest in any option over the company’s shares.
The table below sets out, for share options granted in respect of 2006, 2007 and 2008, the performance period, whether or not the
options have vested at 31st December 2008 and the performance targets.
Performance target
Vesting status Annualised growth Percentage of
Grant Footnote Performance period at 31.12.08 in EPS award vesting
February 2006 a 01.01.06 – 31.12.08 Unvested > RPI + 6% 100%
February 2007 01.01.07 – 31.12.09 Unvested RPI + 5% 83%
February 2008 01.01.08 – 31.12.10 Unvested RPI + 4% 67%
RPI + 3% 50%
< RPI + 3% 0%
a) T he performance targets for these share options were partially met, and as a result part of the option grant will vest on the third anniversary of the date of grant.
The table below sets out, for share options granted in respect of 2009, the performance period and targets.
Performance target
Vesting status Annualised growth Percentage of
Grant Performance period at 31.12.08 in EPS award vesting
February 2009 – 50% of award 01.01.09 – 31.12.11 Unvested > RPI + 6% 100%
February 2009 – 50% of award 01.01.09 – 31.12.12 Unvested RPI + 5% 85%
RPI + 4% 65%
RPI + 3% 30%
< RPI + 3% 0%
2008 2007
Options exercised Grant Market
Date Number price price Gain Gain
Dr JP Garnier – – – – – $4,222,318
Aggregate gain on options exercised – £2,111,159
The highest and lowest closing prices during the year ended 31st December 2008 for GlaxoSmithKline shares were £13.85 and £9.95,
respectively. The highest and lowest prices for GlaxoSmithKline ADS during the year ended 31st December 2008 were $54.36 and
$32.02, respectively. The market price for a GlaxoSmithKline share on 31st December 2008 was £12.85 (31st December 2007 – £12.79)
and for a GlaxoSmithKline ADS was $37.27 (31st December 2007 – $50.39). The prices on 24th February 2009 were £11.06 per
GlaxoSmithKline share and $32.19 per GlaxoSmithKline ADS.
Incentive plans
Performance Share Plan (PSP) awards
Market Additional
Mr A Witty - Shares Number price on Vested shares by
Unvested granted in date of Market dividends Unvested
Performance period at 31.01.08 2008 grant Number price Gain Lapsed reinvested at 31.12.08
01.01.05 – 31.12.07 85,250 – £11.63 33,271 £11.23 £373,633 53,215 1,236 –
01.01.06 – 31.12.08 81,838 – £14.68 – – – – 4,104 85,942
01.01.07 – 31.12.09 87,436 – £14.88 – – – – 4,385 91,821
01.01.08 – 31.12.10 – 225,000 £11.47 – – – – 7,908 232,908
01.01.08 – 31.12.10 – 62,000 £12.21 – – – – 1,443 63,443GSK Annual Report 2008 95
Report of the Directors
Remuneration Report
continued
Market Additional
Mr J Heslop - Shares Number price on Vested shares by
Unvested granted in date of Market dividends Unvested
Performance period at 31.12.07 2008 grant Number price Gain Lapsed reinvested at 31.12.08
01.01.05 – 31.12.07 16,982 – £11.63 6,698 £11.23 £75,219 10,712 428 –
01.01.06 – 31.12.08 105,178 – £14.68 – – – – 6,435 111,613
01.01.07 – 31.12.09 106,887 – £14.88 – – – – 6,539 113,426
01.01.08 – 31.12.10 – 105,000 £11.47 – – – – 3,690 108,690
Market Additional
Dr M Slaoui - Shares Number price on Vested shares by
Unvested granted in date of Market dividends Unvested
Performance period at 31.12.07 2008 grant Number price Gain Lapsed reinvested at 31.12.08
01.01.05 – 31.12.07 14,260 – £11.63 10,122 £11.23 £113,670 4,498 360 –
01.01.06 – 31.12.08 30,208 – £14.68 – – – – 1,847 32,055
Market Additional
Dr M Slaoui - ADS Number price on Vested ADS by Number
Unvested granted in date of Market dividends Unvested granted
Performance period at 31.12.07 2008 grant Number price Gain Lapsed reinvested at 31.12.08 in 2009
01.01.07 – 31.12.09 71,840 – $58.00 – – – – 4,444 76,284 –
01.01.08 – 31.12.10 – 70,570 $44.75 – – – – 2,545 73,115 –
01.01.09 – 31.12.11 – – – – – – – – – 2,620
This includes those performance shares held by Dr Slaoui’s connected person, who is also an employee of GSK.
Market Additional
Dr JP Garnier – ADS Vested & Number price on Vested ADS by
Unvested deferred at granted in date of Market dividends Unvested
Performance period at 31.12.07 31.12.07 2008 grant Number price Gain Lapsed reinvested at 21.05.08
01.01.01 – 31.12.03 (Deferred) – 39,216 – $51.30 40,599 $47.53$1,929,657 – 1,383 –
01.01.01 – 31.12.03 (Deferred) – 36,826 – $37.25 38,125 $35.44$1,351,156 – 1,299 –
01.01.05 – 31.12.07 218,945 – – $43.73 86,326 $44.75$3,863,089 138,072 5,453 –
01.01.06 – 31.12.08 231,300 – – $51.02 – – – – 8,549 239,849
01.01.07 – 31.12.09 244,320 – – $58.00 – – – – 9,029 253,349
As set out in Dr Garnier’s contract, his unvested PSP awards all vest, subject to achievement of the performance conditions, at the end of
the performance periods set out above.
Market Additional
Mr C Viehbacher - ADS* Number price on Vested ADS by
Unvested granted in date of Market dividends Unvested
Performance period at 31.01.08 2008 grant Number price Gain Lapsed reinvested at 01.12.08
01.01.05 – 31.12.07 42,585 – $43.73 16,618 $44.75 $743,656 26,579 612 –
01.01.06 – 31.12.08 40,898 – $51.02 – – – 42,982 2,084 –
01.01.07 – 31.12.09 43,715 – $58.00 – – – 45,942 2,227 –
01.01.08 – 31.12.10 – 42,500 $44.75 – – – 44,033 1,533 –
* Mr Viehbacher joined the Board on 31st January 2008 and his PSPs are disclosed from this date until 8th September when he resigned from the Board. All unvested
PSPs lapsed when Mr Viehbacher left the company on 1st December 2008.
Under the terms of the PSP the number of shares actually vesting is determined following the end of the relevant measurement period
and is dependent on GSK’s performance during that period as described on pages 84 to 85.96 GSK Annual Report 2008
Report of the Directors
Remuneration Report
continued
Dividends are reinvested on the performance shares awarded to Executives, throughout the performance period and up to the date of
the final award. The dividend reinvestment is calculated as of the ex-dividend date. Under the terms of the PSP, US participants may defer
receipt of all or part of their vested awards. The total gain on vesting of PSP awards made by Executive Directors is £4,826,067
(2007 – £74,400).
The PSP awards granted to Executive Directors in February 2006, excluding Dr Slaoui, with the performance period starting on
1st January 2006 and ending on 31st December 2008 lapsed because GSK’s relative TSR performance was below the median of the
comparator group.
The awards made to other senior Executives, including Dr Slaoui who was not a member of the CET at the time of the award, in 2006
were dependent in part on TSR performance and in part on EPS performance. The TSR portion lapsed and the EPS portion vested in full.
The following vesting schedule applies to PSP awards made in 2006.
Vesting schedule
Award Performance Period TSR rank with 13 companies Percentage of award vesting*
2006 01.01.06 – 31.12.08 1 100%
2 100%
3 87%
4 74%
5 61%
6 48%
Median 35%
Below median 0%
The following vesting schedules apply to PSP awards made in 2007 and 2008.
Vesting schedule
Award Performance Period TSR rank with 14 companies Percentage of award vesting*
2007 01.01.07 – 31.12.09 1 100%
2008 01.01.08 – 31.12.10 2 100%
3 90%
4 80%
5 70%
6 60%
7 50%
Median 35%
Below median 0%
* TSR is measured on a pro-rata basis. Where GlaxoSmithKline’s performance falls between two of the comparators, the level of vesting will be determined by the actual
relative level of TSR rather than simple ranking. Dividends will be treated as reinvested during the performance period.
The 2009 awards will be made following approval of the new PSP at the 2009 AGM.
Share Value Plan awards
Market
Dr M Slaoui - Shares and ADS Number price on Vested & deferred
Unvested granted in date of Market Unvested Number of ADS
Plan year at 31.12.07 2008 grant Number price Gain Lapsed at 31.12.08 granted in 2009
2006 (shares) 1,200 – £14.68 – – – – 1,200 –
2007 (ADS) 890 – $58.00 – – – – 890 –
2008 (ADS) – 890 $44.75 – – – _ 890 –
2008 (ADS) – 2,980 $48.55 – – – – 2,980 –
2009 (ADS) – – – – – – – – 1,490
As an Executive Director, Dr Slaoui is not eligible to receive awards under the Share Value Plan. The awards shown above reflect the holdings
of Dr Slaoui’s connected person, an employee of GSK. The awards are subject to three-year vesting periods and vesting is contingent on
continued employment with GSK.GSK Annual Report 2008 97
Report of the Directors
Remuneration Report
continued
Vested and Additional ADS Vested and
deferred by dividends deferred
participations reinvested participations
Mid-Term Incentive Plan – ADS at 31.12.07 in 2008 Exercised Market Price Gain at 21.05.08
Dr JP Garnier 180,137 6,353 186,490 $47.53 $8,863,870 –
The Mid-Term Incentive Plan (MTIP) was a share award scheme operated by SmithKline Beecham. The plan closed to new entrants upon
completion of the merger and no further participations have been granted.
Where a final award of ADS is made, receipt of the award may be deferred by a Director. Dr Garnier deferred receipt of the full amounts
which vested in each year between 1999 and 2003. The deferred awards, together with any additional ADS subsequently received
through dividend reinvestment, are not included in the Directors’ interests table on page 92 since they are retained in the MTIP until
paid out.
On 19th February 2008, the company made a conditional award of 111,750 ADS to Mr Viehbacher. Following Mr Viehbacher’s
resignation from the Board, with effect from 8th September 2008, this conditional award lapsed in full.
Pension benefits
The accrued annual pension benefits and transfer values for Executive Directors in office on 31st December 2008 on retirement are set
out below.
The Companies Act 1985 requires disclosure of the accrued benefit at the end of the year, the change in accrued benefit over the year,
the transfer value at both the beginning and end of the year and the change in the transfer value over the year. The Listing Rules require
additional disclosure of the change in the accrued benefit net of inflation and the transfer value of this change. Pensions for the Executive
Directors have been disclosed in the currency in which the pension is payable.
Change in
Change in Personal accrued Transfer value
Accrued Accrued accrued contributions Transfer Transfer Change benefit over of change
benefit at benefit at benefit made during value at value at in transfer year net in accrued
Executive Directors
31.12 0.0 07
0
31.12 0.0 08
0
over y 0e 0a 0r the y 0e 0a 0r 31.12 0.0 07
0
31.12 0.0 08
0
va 0l 0u 0e
*
of infla 0ti 0on
0
ben 0e 0fi 0t *
Mr A Witty £218 £315 £97 £22 £2,598 £3,848 £1,228 £89 £1,112
Mr J Heslop £142 £170 £28 £14 £2,609 £2,837 £214 £23 £374
Dr M Slaoui $72 $131 $59 – $399 $731 $332 $58 $332
Dr M Slaoui €53 €55 €2 – €572 €608 €36 €1 €36
Former Executive Directors
Dr JP Garnier $1,235 $1,353 $118 – $16,239 $17,423 $1,184 $106 $1,184
Mr C Viehbacher $126 $187 $61 – $682 $1,013 $331 $60 $331
* These are shown net of contributions made by the individual.
Mr Witty and Mr Heslop participate in the Glaxo Wellcome Defined Benefit Plan with an accrual rate of 1/30th of final pensionable
salary per annum. In 2000 all benefits accrued under the Glaxo Wellcome UK pension arrangements were augmented by the Trustees of
the plans by 5% to reflect a distribution of surplus. This augmentation will apply to that element of Mr Witty and Mr Heslop’s pension
earnings before 31st March 2000.
Mr Witty’s and Mr Heslop’s transfer values have been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with pensions regulation.
The transfer value represents the present value of future payments to be made under the pension plan. Mr Witty’s annual accrued benefit
has increased by £97,331 (£88,814 excluding the effects of inflation), and the transfer value less personal contributions has increased by
£1,228,350 over the year. The increase in Mr Witty’s pensionable salary of £300,000 reflecting his appointment to CEO is the primary
reason for the increase in transfer value. Mr Heslop’s annual accrued benefit has increased by £28,459 (£22,911 excluding the effects of
inflation) and the transfer value less personal contributions has increased by £214,095 over the year.98 GSK Annual Report 2008
Report of the Directors
Remuneration Report
continued
Pension benefits Directors and Senior Management
Dr Slaoui and Mr Viehbacher are members of the US Executive Further information is also provided on compensation and
Cash Balance Pension Plan. The plan provides for an Executive interests of Directors and Senior Management as a group (‘the
Pension Credit, under which GSK makes annual contributions group’). For this purpose, the group is defined as the Executive
calculated as a percentage of the executive’s base salary. and Non-Executive Directors and members of the CET. For the
GSK makes contributions at 38% of base pay. The fund financial year 2008, the total compensation paid to members
increases at an interest rate set annually in advance based on of the group for the periods during which they served in that
the 30 year US Treasury bond rate to provide a cash sum at capacity was £17,352,130, the aggregate increase in accrued
retirement. The plan has no entitlement to a spouse’s pension pension benefits, net of inflation, was £772,637 and the
or to pension increases. aggregate payment to defined contribution schemes
was £485,612.
Mr Viehbacher resigned from the Board on 8th September
2008 and left the company on 1st December 2008. During 2008, the members of the group were granted
1,454,517 share options and 607,836 ADS options under the
The transfer value, or cash sum, has increased by $331,860 for
Share Option plan, were awarded 629,176 shares and 291,547
Dr Slaoui and $331,407 for Mr Viehbacher over the year as a
ADS under the Performance Share Plan, were awarded 2,520
result of further accumulation of interest and contributions paid
shares and 3,870 ADS under the Share Value Plan and were
by the company.
awarded 35,778 notional shares under the Deferred Investment
Dr Slaoui was an active participant in the Belgium Fortis Plan Award Plan. Members of the group were also awarded through
until 31st May 2006. This plan is a defined benefit plan with the reinvestment of dividends 71,755 shares and 54,110 ADS in
a lump sum payable at normal retirement which is age 60 for the Performance Share Plan and 2,100 notional shares and 144
the plan. The transfer value, or cash sum, of Dr Slaoui’s plan notional ADS in the Deferred Investment Award Plan.
has increase by €36,380 over the year as a result of further
At 24th February 2009, the group (comprising 28 persons)
accumulation of interest.
owned 765,249 shares and 78,770 ADS, constituting less than
Dr Garnier retired from the company on 31st May 2008. 1% of the issued share capital of the company. The group also
He was a member of the US Cash Balance Pension Plan, held, at that date: options to purchase 6,742,286 shares and
under which GSK made annual contributions calculated as 2,170,034 ADS; 1,124,013 shares and 417,316 ADS awarded
a percentage of base salary and bonus. GSK made annual under the Performance Share Plan, including those shares and
contributions of 15% of Dr Garnier’s annual salary and bonus ADS that are vested and deferred; 38,113 vested and deferred
as detailed in his contract. The fund increased at an interest ADS under the legacy SmithKline Beecham Mid-Term Incentive
rate set annually based on the 30 year US Treasury bond rate to Plan; 20,130 shares and 6,250 ADS awarded under the Share
provide a cash sum at retirement. The plan has no entitlement Value Plan and 83,460 notional shares awarded under the
to a spouse’s pension or to pension increases. Dr Garnier has Deferred Investment Award Plan. These holdings were issued
selected to receive his pension payments on an annual basis under the various executive share option plans described in
paid over 15 years commencing January 2009. The transfer Note 42 to the financial statements, ‘Employee share schemes’.
value, or cash sum, has increased by $1,184,468 over the year
for Dr Garnier’s plan as a result of further accumulation of Directors’ interests in contracts
interest and contributions paid by the company. Except as described in Note 35 to the financial statements, ‘Related
party transactions’, during or at the end of the financial year no
Dr Slaoui, Dr Garnier and Mr Viehbacher are also members of
Director or connected person had any material interest in any
the US Retirement Savings Plan, a 401k savings scheme open to
contract of significance in relation to the Group’s business with a
all US employees and the Executive Supplemental Savings Plan,
Group company.
a savings scheme open to executives to accrue benefits above
US government limits imposed on the Retirement Savings Plan. The Directors’ Remuneration Report has been approved by the
Contributions to both plans are invested in a range of funds Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by
and the value of the accumulated funds is paid at retirement.
During 2008, contributions of $98,474 (£53,229) were Sir Christopher Gent
paid into these two schemes by GSK in respect of Dr Slaoui, Chairman
$143,314 (£77,467) in respect of Dr Garnier and $96,958 3rd March 2009
(£52,410) in respect of Mr Viehbacher.GSK Annual Report 2008 99
Financial statements
Financial statements
The financial statements set out below/(overleaf) provide a Directors’ statement of responsibilities 100
summary of the Group’s financial performance throughout Independent Auditors’ report 101
2008 and its position as at 31st December 2008. The financial
Financial statements
statements are prepared in accordance with the IFRS as
Consolidated income statement 102
adopted by the European Union and also IFRS as issued by Consolidated balance sheet 103
the International Accounting standards board. The financial Consolidated cash flow statement 104
statements comprise of the following audited primary statements Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense 105
and related notes:
Notes to the financial statements
1. Presentation of the financial statements 106
• Consolidated income statement;
2. Accounting principles and policies 107
• Consolidated balance sheet; 3. Key accounting judgements and estimates 111
4. New accounting requirements 112
• Consolidated cash flow statement; and
5. Exchange rates 113
• Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense. 6. Segment information 114
7. Major restructuring programmes 117
8. Other operating income 119
9. Operating profit 119
10. Employee costs 120
11. Finance income 120
12. Finance costs 121
13. Associates and joint ventures 121
14. Taxation 122
15. Earnings per share 124
16. Dividends 125
17. Property, plant and equipment 125
18. Goodwill 127
19. Other intangible assets 129
20. Investments in associates and joint ventures 131
21. Other investments 132
22. Other non-current assets 132
23. Inventories 132
24. Trade and other receivables 133
25. Cash and cash equivalents 133
26. Assets held for sale 133
27. Trade and other payables 134
28. Pensions and other post-employment benefits 134
29. Other provisions 142
30. Other non-current liabilities 144
31. Contingent liabilities 144
32. Net debt 144
33. Share capital and share premium account 146
34. Movements in equity 147
35. Related party transactions 149
36. Adjustments reconciling profit after tax to operating
cash flows 149
37. Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt 150
38. Acquisitions and disposals 150
39. Commitments 154
40. Post balance sheet events 155
41. Financial instruments and related disclosures 156
42. Employee share schemes 164
43. Principal Group companies 169
44. Legal proceedings 172
Financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc,
prepared under UK GAAP 181100 GSK Annual Report 2008
Financial statements
Directors’ statement of responsibilities
Directors’ statement of responsibilities in relation to • the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in
the Group financial statements accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and IFRS as issued
by IASB, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities,
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report,
financial position and profit of the Group; and
the Remuneration Report and the Group financial statements in
accordance with applicable law and regulations. • the Business review section contained in the Annual Report
includes a fair review of the development and performance of
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements
the business and the position of the Group, together with a
for each financial year. Under that law the Directors have prepared the
description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial
Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union. In Disclosure of information to auditors
preparing the Group financial statements, the Directors have also elected The Directors in office at the date of this Report have each
to comply with IFRS, as issued by the International Accounting Standards confirmed that:
Board (IASB). The Group financial statements are required by law to give
• so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit
a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group as at the end of
information of which the company’s auditors are unaware; and
the financial period and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
• he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to:
taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply relevant audit information and to establish that the company’s
them consistently; auditors are aware of that information.
• make judgements and estimates that are reasonable
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance
and prudent;
with the provisions of Section 234 ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
• state that the Group financial statements comply with IFRS as
Going concern basis
adopted by the European Union and IFRS as issued by the IASB,
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the
the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence
financial statements.
for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue to adopt the
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial
Internal control
position of the Group and to enable them to ensure that the Group
financial statements and the Directors’ Remuneration Report comply The Board, through the Audit Committee, has reviewed the
with the Companies Acts 1985 and 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS assessment of risks and the internal control framework that operates
Regulation. They are also responsible for taking reasonable steps to in GSK and has considered the effectiveness of the system of internal
safeguard the assets of the Group and ensuring the operation of control in operation in the Group for the year covered by this report
systems of internal control, and hence for taking reasonable steps and up to the date of its approval by the Board of Directors.
for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities. The Combined Code
The Group financial statements for the year ended 31st December The Board considers that GlaxoSmithKline plc applies the principles
2008, comprising principal statements and supporting notes, are of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance of the Financial
set out in ‘Financial statements’ on pages 102 and 180 of Reporting Council, as described under ‘Corporate governance’
this Report. on pages 60 to 77, and has complied with its provisions except as
described on page 76.
The responsibilities of the auditors in relation to the Group
financial statements are set out in the Independent Auditors’ As required by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services
report on page 101. Authority, the auditors have considered the Directors’ statement
of compliance in relation to those points of the Combined Code
The Group financial statements for the year ended 31st December
which are specified for their review.
2008 are included in the Annual Report, which is published in
hard-copy printed form and made available on the company’s Annual Report
website. The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and The Annual Report for the year ended 31st December 2008,
integrity of the Annual Report on the website in accordance comprising the Report of the Directors, the Remuneration Report,
with UK legislation governing the preparation and dissemination the Financial statements and additional information for investors, has
of financial statements. Access to the website is available from been approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by
outside the UK, where comparable legislation may be different.
Each of the current Directors, whose names and functions are Sir Christopher Gent
listed in the Corporate governance section of the Annual Report Chairman
2008 confirms that, to the best of his or her knowledge: 3rd March 2009GSK Annual Report 2008 101
Financial statements
Independent Auditors’ report
to the members of GlaxoSmithKline plc
We have audited the Group financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any
plc for the year ended 31st December 2008 which comprise the apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group
Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated balance sheet, the financial statements.
Consolidated cash flow statement, the Consolidated statement of
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
recognised income and expense and the related notes. These Group
financial statements have been prepared under the accounting Basis of audit opinion
policies set out therein. We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards
on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
We have reported separately on the parent company financial
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant
statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year ended
to the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial statements.
31st December 2008 and on the information in the Remuneration
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and
Report that is described as having been audited.
judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the Group
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and appropriate to the Group’s circumstances, consistently applied and
the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law adequately disclosed.
and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the
by the European Union are set out in the Directors’ Statement of
information and explanations which we considered necessary in
Responsibilities (page 100 opposite).
order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in assurance that the Group financial statements are free from material
accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). This report, In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of
including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the the presentation of information in the Group financial statements.
company’s members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the
Opinion
Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving
In our opinion:
this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to
any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it • the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in
may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing. accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the
state of the Group’s affairs as at 31st December 2008 and of its
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial
profit and cash flows for the year then ended;
statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group
financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance • the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in
with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information IAS Regulation; and
given in the Report of the Directors is consistent with the Group
• the information given in the Report of the Directors is consistent
financial statements.
with the Group financial statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not
Separate opinion in relation to IFRS
received all the information and explanations we require for
As explained in Note 1 to the Group financial statements, the Group
our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors’
in addition to complying with its legal obligation to comply with IFRS
remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
as adopted by the European Union, has also complied with the IFRS
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined
In our opinion the Group financial statements give a true and fair
Code (2006) specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial
view, in accordance with IFRS, of the state of the Group’s affairs
Services Authority, and we report if it does not. We are not required to
as at 31st December 2008 and of its profit and cash flows for the
consider whether the board’s statements on internal control cover all
year then ended.
risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s
corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures. PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider
London
whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial statements.
3rd March 2009
The other information comprises only Chairman and CEO Summary,
Our strategy, Report of the Directors (excluding the audited part of
the Remuneration Report), Directors’ statement of responsibilities and
Shareholder information.102 GSK Annual Report 2008
Financial statements
Consolidated income statement
for the year ended 31st December 2008
2008 2007 2006
Results Results
before major Major Total before major Major Total Total
Notes restructuring restructuring £m restructuring restructuring £m £m
Turnover 6 24,352 – 24,352 22,716 – 22,716 23,225
Cost of sales (5,776) (639) (6,415) (5,206) (111) (5,317) (5,010)
Gross profit 18,576 (639) 17,937 17,510 (111) 17,399 18,215
Selling, general and administration (7,352) (304) (7,656) (6,817) (137) (6,954) (7,257)
Research and development (3,506) (175) (3,681) (3,237) (90) (3,327) (3,457)
Other operating income 8 541 – 541 475 – 475 307
Operating profit 9,10 8,259 (1,118) 7,141 7,931 (338) 7,593 7,808
Finance income 11 313 – 313 262 – 262 287
Finance costs 12 (838) (5) (843) (453) – (453) (352)
Share of after tax profits of associates
and joint ventures 13 48 – 48 50 – 50 56
Profit before taxation 7,782 (1,123) 6,659 7,790 (338) 7,452 7,799
Taxation 14 (2,231) 284 (1,947) (2,219) 77 (2,142) (2,301)
Profit after taxation for the year 5,551 (839) 4,712 5,571 (261) 5,310 5,498
Profit attributable to minority interests 110 – 110 96 – 96 109
Profit attributable to shareholders 5,441 (839) 4,602 5,475 (261) 5,214 5,389
5,551 (839) 4,712 5,571 (261) 5,310 5,498
Basic earnings per share (pence) 15 88.6p 94.4p 95.5p
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 15 88.1p 93.7p 94.5p
The calculation of ‘Results before major restructuring’ is described in Note 1, ‘Presentation of the financial statements’.GSK Annual Report 2008 103
Financial statements
Consolidated balance sheet
at 31st December 2008
2008 2007
Notes £m £m
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 17 9,678 7,821
Goodwill 18 2,101 1,370
Other intangible assets 19 5,869 4,456
Investments in associates and joint ventures 20 552 329
Other investments 21 478 517
Deferred tax assets 14 2,760 2,196
Derivative financial instruments 41 107 1
Other non-current assets 22 579 687
Total non-current assets 22,124 17,377
Current assets
Inventories 23 4,056 3,062
Current tax recoverable 14 76 58
Trade and other receivables 24 6,265 5,495
Derivative financial instruments 41 856 475
Liquid investments 32 391 1,153
Cash and cash equivalents 25 5,623 3,379
Assets held for sale 26 2 4
Total current assets 17,269 13,626
Total assets 39,393 31,003
Current liabilities
Short-term borrowings 32 (956) (3,504)
Trade and other payables 27 (6,075) (4,861)
Derivative financial instruments 41 (752) (262)
Current tax payable 14 (780) (826)
Short-term provisions 29 (1,454) (892)
Total current liabilities (10,017) (10,345)
Non-current liabilities
Long-term borrowings 32 (15,231) (7,067)
Deferred tax liabilities 14 (714) (887)
Pensions and other post-employment benefits 28 (3,039) (1,383)
Other provisions 29 (1,645) (1,035)
Derivative financial instruments 41 (2) (8)
Other non-current liabilities 30 (427) (368)
Total non-current liabilities (21,058) (10,748)
Total liabilities (31,075) (21,093)
Net assets 8,318 9,910
Equity
Share capital 33 1,415 1,503
Share premium account 33 1,326 1,266
Retained earnings 34 4,622 6,475
Other reserves 34 568 359
Shareholders’ equity 7,931 9,603
Minority interests 34 387 307
Total equity 8,318 9,910
Approved by the Board on 3rd March 2009
Sir Christopher Gent
Chairman104 GSK Annual Report 2008
Financial statements
Consolidated cash flow statement
for the year ended 31st December 2008
2008 2007 2006
Notes £m £m £m
Cash flow from operating activities
Profit after taxation for the year 4,712 5,310 5,498
Adjustments reconciling profit after tax to operating cash flows 36 4,343 2,770 2,705
Cash generated from operations 9,055 8,080 8,203
Taxation paid (1,850) (1,919) (3,846)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 7,205 6,161 4,357
Cash flow from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (1,437) (1,516) (1,366)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 20 35 43
Purchase of intangible assets (632) (627) (224)
Proceeds from sale of intangible assets 171 9 175
Purchase of equity investments (87) (186) (57)
Proceeds from sale of equity investments 42 45 32
Share transactions with minority shareholders 38 – – (157)
Purchase of businesses, net of cash acquired 38 (454) (1,027) (273)
Disposal of businesses and interest in associates 38 – – 5
Investments in associates and joint ventures 38 (9) (1) (13)
Decrease/(increase) in liquid investments 905 (39) (55)
Interest received 320 247 299
Dividends from associates and joint ventures 12 12 15
Net cash outflow from investing activities (1,149) (3,048) (1,576)
Cash flow from financing activities
Proceeds from own shares for employee share options 9 116 151
Shares acquired by ESOP Trusts (19) (26) –
Issue of share capital 33 62 417 316
Purchase of own shares for cancellation (3,706) (213) –
Purchase of Treasury shares – (3,538) (1,348)
Increase in long-term loans 5,523 3,483 –
Repayment of long-term loans – (207) –
Net (repayment of)/increase in short-term loans (3,059) 1,632 (739)
Net repayment of obligations under finance leases (48) (39) (34)
Interest paid (730) (378) (414)
Dividends paid to shareholders (2,929) (2,793) (2,598)
Dividends paid to minority interests (79) (77) (87)
Other financing cash flows 68 (79) 16
Net cash outflow from financing activities (4,908) (1,702) (4,737)
Increase/(decrease) in cash and bank overdrafts 37 1,148 1,411 (1,956)
Exchange adjustments 1,103 48 (254)
Cash and bank overdrafts at beginning of year 3,221 1,762 3,972
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year 5,472 3,221 1,762
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year comprise:
Cash and cash equivalents 5,623 3,379 2,005
Overdrafts (151) (158) (243)
5,472 3,221 1,762GSK Annual Report 2008 105
Financial statements
Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense
for the year ended 31st December 2008
2008 2007 2006
£m £m £m
Exchange movements on overseas net assets 1,101 411 (359)
Tax on exchange movements 15 21 (78)
Fair value movements on available-for-sale investments (81) (99) 84
Deferred tax on fair value movements on available-for-sale investments 8 19 (15)
Actuarial (losses)/gains on defined benefit plans (1,370) 671 429
Deferred tax on actuarial movements in defined benefit plans 441 (195) (161)
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges 6 (6) (5)
Deferred tax on fair value movements on cash flow hedges (3) 2 2
Net profits/(losses) recognised directly in equity 117 824 (103)
Profit for the year 4,712 5,310 5,498
Total recognised income and expense for the year 4,829 6,134 5,395
Total recognised income and expense for the year attributable to:
Shareholders 4,670 6,012 5,307
Minority interests 159 122 88
4,829 6,134 5,395106 GSK Annual Report 2008
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
1 Presentation of the financial statements With an estimated total cost of approximately £3.6 billion, the
expanded programme is expected to deliver annual pre-tax
Description of business
savings of approximately £1.7 billion by the time it is substantially
GlaxoSmithKline is a major global healthcare Group which is
complete in 2011. Given the extent and cost of the Operational
engaged in the creation and discovery, development, manufacture
Excellence programme, management believes it has a material
and marketing of pharmaceutical products including vaccines,
impact on GSK’s operating results and on the manner in which
over-the-counter (OTC) medicines and health-related consumer
GSK’s business is conducted. GSK presents the restructuring costs
products. GSK’s principal pharmaceutical products include
incurred solely as a direct result of the Operational Excellence
medicines in the following therapeutic areas: respiratory, central
programme in a separate column in the income statement titled
nervous system, anti-virals, anti-bacterials, metabolic, vaccines,
‘Major restructuring’.
cardiovascular and urogenital, oncology and emesis.
In addition to the restructuring costs of the Operational Excellence
Compliance with applicable law and IFRS
programme, the major restructuring column in the income
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance
statement includes restructuring costs incurred solely as a direct
with the Companies Act 1985, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation
result of any restructuring programmes that follow, and relate
and International Accounting Standards (IAS) and International
to, material acquisitions where the operations of the acquired
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and related interpretations,
business overlap extensively with GSK’s existing operations.
as adopted by the European Union.
The restructuring activities that follow, and relate to, such
The financial statements are also in compliance with IFRS as issued acquisitions are of the same nature as those undertaken under
by the International Accounting Standards Board. the Operational Excellence programme and are also carried out
Composition of financial statements following a detailed formal plan. Management therefore considers
it appropriate to present the costs of these restructuring activities
The consolidated financial statements are drawn up in Sterling, the
in the same manner. The $1.65 billion (£814 million) acquisition of
functional currency of GlaxoSmithKline plc, and in accordance with
Reliant Pharmaceuticals in December 2007 is the only acquisition
IFRS accounting presentation. The financial statements comprise:
since October 2007 that meets the criteria set out above and thus
• Consolidated income statement is the only acquisition where the costs incurred as a direct result of
• Consolidated balance sheet a related restructuring programme have been included within the
• Consolidated cash flow statement major restructuring column.
• Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense The Group’s results before the costs of the Operational Excellence
• Notes to the financial statements. programme and acquisition-related restructuring programmes
meeting the criteria described above are also presented in a
Accounting convention
separate column in the income statement and are described as
The financial statements have been prepared using the historical
’Results before major restructuring’. This presentation, which
cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain items, as
GSK intends to apply consistently to future major restructuring
stated in the accounting policies.
programmes that have a material impact on GSK’s operating
Financial period results and on the manner in which GSK’s business is conducted,
These financial statements cover the financial year from 1st has been adopted to show clearly the Group’s results both
January to 31st December 2008, with comparative figures for before and after the costs of these restructuring programmes.
the financial years from 1st January to 31st December 2007 and, Management believes that this presentation assists investors
where appropriate, from 1st January to 31st December 2006. in gaining a clearer understanding of the Group’s financial
performance and in making projections of future financial
Composition of the Group
performance, as results that include such costs, by virtue of their
A list of the subsidiary and associated undertakings which, in the opinion
size and nature, have limited comparative value. This presentation
of the Directors, principally affected the amount of profit or the net
is also consistent with the way management assesses the Group’s
assets of the Group is given in Note 43, ‘Principal Group companies’.
financial performance.
Presentation of restructuring costs
Any restructuring costs that do not arise solely as a direct result
In October 2007, the Board approved the implementation of a
of the Operational Excellence programme and restructuring
detailed formal plan for, and GSK announced, a significant
programmes following, and relating to, acquisitions meeting the
new Operational Excellence restructuring programme.
criteria described above continue to be reported in operating
A second formal plan, representing a significant expansion of the
expenses within results before major restructuring.
Operational Excellence programme, was approved by the Board
and announced in February 2009. This restructuring programme,
comprising these detailed formal plans, covers all areas of GSK’s
business, including manufacturing, selling, R&D and infrastructure.GSK Annual Report 2008 107
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
Accounting principles and policies Entities over which the Group has the power to govern the
The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with financial and operating policies are accounted for as subsidiaries.
generally accepted accounting principles requires management to Where the Group has the ability to exercise joint control, the
make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts entities are accounted for as joint ventures, and where the Group
of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and has the ability to exercise significant influence, they are accounted
liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported for as associates. The results and assets and liabilities of associates
amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. and joint ventures are incorporated into the consolidated financial
Actual results could differ from those estimates. statements using the equity method of accounting.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance Interests acquired in entities are consolidated from the date the
with the Group’s accounting policies approved by the Board Group acquires control and interests sold are de-consolidated from
and described in Note 2, ‘Accounting principles and policies’. the date control ceases.
Information on the application of these accounting policies,
Transactions and balances between subsidiaries are eliminated;
including areas of estimation and judgement is given in Note 3,
no profit before tax is taken on sales between subsidiaries or on
‘Key accounting judgements and estimates’. Where appropriate,
sales to joint ventures and associates until the products are sold
comparative figures are reclassified to ensure a consistent
to customers outside the Group. Deferred tax relief on unrealised
presentation with current year information.
intra-Group profit is accounted for only to the extent that it is
Restated comparative information considered recoverable.
As a result of the review of the strategic direction of the Group,
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of interests in subsidiaries, joint
the regional reporting structure within the Pharmaceuticals
ventures and associates, representing the excess of the acquisition
business has been realigned. Russia and a number of developing
cost over the Group’s share of the fair values of the identifiable
Eastern European markets, previously reported within Europe are
assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired, is capitalised
now included within the Emerging Markets sector in the Rest of
as a separate item in the case of subsidiaries and as part of the
World. No change has been made to the reporting structure in
cost of investment in the case of joint ventures and associates.
the Consumer Healthcare business where these markets are still
Goodwill is denominated in the currency of the operation
reported within Europe.
acquired. Where the cost of acquisition is below the fair value of
The Group has also taken the opportunity to review the allocation the net assets acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the
of entities and expenses between the Pharmaceuticals and income statement.
Consumer Healthcare businesses. As a result, one entity in
Foreign currency translation
China has been reclassified from Pharmaceuticals to Consumer
Foreign currency transactions are booked in the functional
Healthcare. Comparative information has been restated onto a
currency of the Group company at the exchange rate ruling on the
consistent basis.
date of transaction. Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities
These reallocations have no impact on Group turnover or Group are retranslated into the functional currency at rates of exchange
operating profit. ruling at the balance sheet date. Exchange differences are included
in the income statement.
Parent company financial statements
The financial statements of the parent company, GlaxoSmithKline On consolidation, assets and liabilities, including related goodwill,
plc, have been prepared in accordance with UK GAAP and with UK of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, are
accounting presentation. The company balance sheet is presented translated into Sterling at rates of exchange ruling at the balance
on page 183 and the accounting policies are given on page 184. sheet date. The results and cash flows of overseas subsidiaries,
associates and joint ventures are translated into Sterling using
2 Accounting principles and policies
average rates of exchange.
Consolidation
Exchange adjustments arising when the opening net assets and
The consolidated financial statements include: the profits for the year retained by overseas subsidiaries, associates
and joint ventures are translated into Sterling, less exchange
• the assets and liabilities, and the results and cash flows, of the
differences arising on related foreign currency borrowings which
company and its subsidiaries, including ESOP Trusts
hedge the Group’s net investment in these operations, are taken to
• the Group’s share of the results and net assets of associates and a separate component of equity.
joint ventures.
The financial statements of entities consolidated are made up to
31st December each year.108 GSK Annual Report 2008
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
2 Accounting principles and policies continued Research and development
Research and development expenditure is charged to the income
When translating into Sterling the assets, liabilities, results and
statement in the period in which it is incurred. Development
cash flows of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures
expenditure is capitalised when the criteria for recognising an asset
which are reported in currencies of hyper-inflationary economies,
are met, usually when a regulatory filing has been made in a major
adjustments are made to reflect current price levels. Any loss
market and approval is considered highly probable. Property, plant
on net monetary assets is charged to the consolidated
and equipment used for research and development is depreciated
income statement.
in accordance with the Group’s policy.
Revenue
Environmental expenditure
Revenue is recognised in the income statement when goods or
Environmental expenditure related to existing conditions resulting
services are supplied or made available to external customers
from past or current operations and from which no current or
against orders received, title and risk of loss is passed to the
future benefit is discernible is charged to the income statement.
customer, and reliable estimates can be made of relevant
The Group recognises its liability on a site-by-site basis when it can
deductions. Turnover represents net invoice value after the
be reliably estimated. This liability includes the Group’s portion of
deduction of discounts and allowances given and accruals for
the total costs and also a portion of other potentially responsible
estimated future rebates and returns. The methodology and
parties’ costs when it is probable that they will not be able to
assumptions used to estimate rebates and returns are monitored
satisfy their respective shares of the clean-up obligation. Recoveries
and adjusted regularly in the light of contractual and legal
of reimbursements are recorded as assets when virtually certain.
obligations, historical trends, past experience and projected market
conditions. Market conditions are evaluated using wholesaler and Legal and other disputes
other third-party analyses, market research data and internally Provision is made for the anticipated settlement costs of legal or
generated information. Turnover also includes co-promotion other disputes against the Group where an outflow of resources
income where the Group records its share of the revenue but no is considered probable and a reasonable estimate can be made
related cost of sales. Value added tax and other sales taxes are of the likely outcome. In addition, provision is made for legal or
excluded from revenue. other expenses arising from claims received or other disputes. In
respect of product liability claims related to products where there
Royalty income is recognised in other operating income on
is sufficient history of claims made and settlements, an incurred
an accruals basis in accordance with the terms of the relevant
but not reported (IBNR) actuarial technique is used to determine a
licensing agreements.
reasonable estimate of the Group’s exposure to unasserted claims
Expenditure for those products and a provision is made on that basis.
Expenditure is recognised in respect of goods and services
No provision is made for other unasserted claims or where an
received when supplied in accordance with contractual terms.
obligation exists under a dispute but it is not possible to make a
Provision is made when an obligation exists for a future liability in
reasonable estimate. Costs associated with claims made by the
respect of a past event and where the amount of the obligation
Group against third parties are charged to the income statement
can be reliably estimated. Manufacturing start-up costs between
as they are incurred.
validation and the achievement of normal production are
expensed as incurred. Advertising and promotion expenditure is Pensions and other post-employment benefits
charged to the income statement as incurred. Shipment costs on The costs of providing pensions under defined benefit schemes are
intercompany transfers are charged to cost of sales; distribution calculated using the projected unit credit method and spread over
costs on sales to customers are included in selling, general and the period during which benefit is expected to be derived from
administrative expenditure. the employees’ services, consistent with the advice of qualified
actuaries. Pension obligations are measured as the present value
Restructuring costs are recognised and provided for, where
of estimated future cash flows discounted at rates reflecting the
appropriate, in respect of the direct expenditure of a business
yields of high quality corporate bonds.
reorganisation where the plans are sufficiently detailed and
well advanced, and where appropriate communication to those
affected has been undertaken.GSK Annual Report 2008 109
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
2 Accounting principles and policies continued Leases
Leasing agreements which transfer to the Group substantially
Pension scheme assets are measured at fair value at the balance
all the benefits and risks of ownership of an asset are treated as
sheet date. Actuarial gains and losses, differences between the
finance leases, as if the asset had been purchased outright. The
expected and actual returns of assets and the effect of changes
assets are included in PP&E or computer software and the capital
in actuarial assumptions, are recognised in the statement of
elements of the leasing commitments are shown as obligations
recognised income and expense in the year in which they
under finance leases. Assets held under finance leases are
arise. The Group’s contributions to defined contribution plans
depreciated on a basis consistent with similar owned assets or the
are charged to the income statement as incurred. The costs
lease term if shorter. The interest element of the lease rental is
of other post-employment liabilities are calculated in a similar
included in the income statement. All other leases are operating
way to defined benefit pension schemes and spread over the
leases and the rental costs are charged to the income statement
period during which benefit is expected to be derived from the
on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
employees’ services, in accordance with the advice of
qualified actuaries. Goodwill
Goodwill is stated at cost less impairments. Goodwill is deemed to
Employee share plans
have an indefinite useful life and is tested for impairment annually.
Incentives in the form of shares are provided to employees under
share option and share award schemes. Where the fair value of the interest acquired in an entity’s assets,
liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the consideration paid, this
The fair values of these options and awards are calculated at
excess is recognised immediately as a gain in the income statement.
their grant dates using a Black-Scholes option pricing model and
charged to the income statement over the relevant vesting periods. Other intangible assets
Intangible assets are stated at cost less provisions for amortisation
The Group provides finance to ESOP Trusts to purchase company
and impairments.
shares on the open market to meet the obligation to provide shares
when employees exercise their options or awards. Costs of running Licences, patents, know-how and marketing rights separately
the ESOP Trusts are charged to the income statement. Shares held acquired or acquired as part of a business combination are
by the ESOP Trusts are deducted from other reserves. A transfer is amortised over their estimated useful lives, not exceeding 25 years,
made between other reserves and retained earnings over the vesting using the straight-line basis, from the time they are available for
periods of the related share options or awards to reflect the ultimate use. The estimated useful lives for determining the amortisation
proceeds receivable from employees on exercise. charge take into account patent lives, where applicable, as well
as the value obtained from periods of non-exclusivity. Asset
Property, plant and equipment
lives are reviewed, and where appropriate adjusted, annually.
Property, plant and equipment (PP&E) is stated at the cost of
Contingent milestone payments are recognised at the point
purchase or construction less provisions for depreciation and
that the contingent event becomes certain. Any development
impairment. Financing costs are not capitalised.
costs incurred by the Group and associated with acquired
Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost less residual value licences, patents, know-how or marketing rights are written off
of PP&E, excluding freehold land, using the straight-line basis over to the income statement when incurred, unless the criteria for
the expected useful life. Residual values and lives are reviewed, recognition of an internally generated intangible asset are met,
and where appropriate adjusted, annually. The normal expected usually when a regulatory filing has been made in a major market
useful lives of the major categories of PP&E are: and approval is considered highly probable.
Freehold buildings 20 to 50 years Acquired brands are valued independently as part of the fair value
Leasehold land and Lease term or 20 to 50 years of businesses acquired from third parties where the brand has a
buildings value which is substantial and long-term and where the brands
Plant and machinery 10 to 20 years either are contractual or legal in nature or can be sold separately
Fixtures and equipment 3 to 10 years from the rest of the businesses acquired. Brands are amortised
over their estimated useful lives, except where it is considered that
On disposal of PP&E, the cost and related accumulated
the useful economic life is indefinite.
depreciation and impairments are removed from the financial
statements and the net amount, less any proceeds, is taken to the The costs of acquiring and developing computer software for
income statement. internal use and internet sites for external use are capitalised
as intangible fixed assets where the software or site supports
a significant business system and the expenditure leads to the
creation of a durable asset. ERP systems software is amortised over
seven years and other computer software over three to five years.110 GSK Annual Report 2008
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
2 Accounting principles and policies continued Trade receivables
Trade receivables are carried at original invoice amount less any
Impairment of non-current assets
provisions for doubtful debts. Provisions are made where there is
The carrying values of all non-current assets are reviewed for
evidence of a risk of non-payment, taking into account ageing,
impairment when there is an indication that the assets might be
previous experience and general economic conditions. When a
impaired. Additionally, goodwill, intangible assets with indefinite
trade receivable is determined to be uncollectable it is written off,
useful lives and intangible assets which are not yet available
firstly against any provision available and then to the
for use are tested for impairment annually. Any provision for
income statement.
impairment is charged to the income statement in the
year concerned. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously provided for are
credited to the income statement. Long-term receivables are
Impairments of goodwill are not reversed. Impairment losses on
discounted where the effect is material.
other non-current assets are only reversed if there has been a
change in estimates used to determine recoverable amounts and Trade payables
only to the extent that the revised recoverable amounts Trade payables are held at amortised cost which equates to
do not exceed the carrying values that would have existed, nominal value. Long-term payables are discounted where the
net of depreciation or amortisation, had no impairments effect is material.
been recognised.
Cash and cash equivalents
Investments in associates and joint ventures Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, current balances
Investments in associates and joint ventures are carried in the with banks and similar institutions and highly liquid investments
consolidated balance sheet at the Group’s share of their net assets with original maturities of three months or less. They are readily
at date of acquisition and of their post-acquisition retained profits convertible into known amounts of cash and have an insignificant
or losses together with any goodwill arising on the acquisition. risk of changes in value.
Available-for-sale investments Taxation
Liquid investments and other investments are classified as Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid
available-for-sale investments and are initially recorded at fair applying tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted
value plus transaction costs and then remeasured at subsequent by the balance sheet date.
reporting dates to fair value. Unrealised gains and losses on
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on
available-for-sale investments are recognised directly in equity.
temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and
Impairments arising from the significant or prolonged decline in
liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements.
fair value of an investment reduce the carrying amount of the
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable
asset directly and are charged to the income statement.
that future taxable profits will be available against which the
On disposal or impairment of the investments, any gains and
temporary differences can be utilised. Deferred tax is provided
losses that have been deferred in equity are recycled into the
on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries,
income statement. Dividends on equity investments are recognised
associates and joint ventures, except where the timing of the
in the income statement when the Group’s right to receive
reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled and it is
payment is established. Equity investments are recorded in non-
probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the
current assets unless they are expected to be sold within one year.
foreseeable future. Deferred tax is provided using rates of tax that
Purchases and sales of equity investments are accounted for on have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet
the trade date and purchases and sales of other available-for-sale date. Deferred tax liabilities and assets are not discounted.
investments are accounted for on settlement date.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging
Inventories Derivative financial instruments are used to manage exposure to
Inventories are included in the financial statements at the lower market risks from treasury operations. The principal derivative
of cost (including raw materials, direct labour, other direct costs instruments used by GlaxoSmithKline are foreign currency swaps,
and related production overheads) and net realisable value. Cost interest rate swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts. The
is generally determined on a first in, first out basis. Pre-launch Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for
inventory is held as an asset when there is a high probability of trading or speculative purposes.
regulatory approval for the product. Before that point a provision
is made against the carrying value to its recoverable amount; the
provision is then reversed at the point when a high probability of
regulatory approval is determined.GSK Annual Report 2008 111
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
2 Accounting principles and policies continued The level of accrual is reviewed and adjusted regularly in the
light of contractual and legal obligations, historical trends, past
Derivative financial instruments are classified as held-for-trading
experience and projected market conditions. Market conditions are
and are carried in the balance sheet at fair value. Derivatives
evaluated using wholesaler and other third-party analyses, market
designated as hedging instruments are classified on inception as
research data and internally generated information. Future events
cash flow hedges, net investment hedges or fair value hedges.
could cause the assumptions on which the accruals are based to
Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow change, which could affect the future results of the Group.
hedges are recognised in equity, to the extent that the hedges
Where the Group co-promotes a product and the third party
are effective. Ineffective portions are recognised in profit or loss
records the sale, the Group records its share of revenue as co-
immediately. Amounts deferred in equity are recycled to the
promotion income within turnover. The nature of co-promotion
income statement when the hedged item affects profit or loss.
activities is such that the Group records no costs of sales.
Net investment hedges are accounted for in a similar way to cash Pharmaceutical turnover includes co-promotion revenue of
flow hedges. £378 million (2007 – £274 million, 2006 – £182 million).
Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as fair value Taxation
hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with the Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid, and
changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability. deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between the
tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts, at
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not
the rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the
qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the
balance sheet date.
income statement.
The Group has open tax issues with a number of revenue
Discounting
authorities. GSK continues to believe that it has made adequate
Where the time effect of money is material, balances are discounted
provision for the liabilities likely to arise from open assessments.
to current values using appropriate rates of interest. The unwinding
Where open issues exist the ultimate liability for such matters
of the discounts is recorded in finance income/costs.
may vary from the amounts provided and is dependent upon the
outcome of negotiations with the relevant tax authorities or, if
3 Key accounting judgements and estimates
necessary, litigation proceedings.
In preparing the financial statements, management is required
Legal and other disputes
to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts of
GSK provides for anticipated settlement costs where an outflow of
assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses reported in the financial
resources is considered probable and a reasonable estimate may
statements. Actual amounts and results could differ from those
be made of the likely outcome of the dispute and legal and other
estimates. The following are considered to be the key accounting
expenses arising from claims against the Group.
judgements and estimates made.
The company’s Directors, having taken legal advice, have
Turnover
established provisions after taking into account the relevant
Revenue is recognised when title and risk of loss is passed to
facts and circumstances of each matter and in accordance with
the customer and reliable estimates can be made of relevant
accounting requirements. Provisions for product liability claims on
deductions. Gross turnover is reduced by rebates, discounts,
certain products have been made on an ‘incurred but not reported’
allowances and product returns given or expected to be given,
basis where sufficient history of claims made and settlements is
which vary by product arrangements and buying groups. These
available. No provisions have been made for other unasserted
arrangements with purchasing organisations are dependent upon
claims or for claims for which no reasonable estimate of the likely
the submission of claims some time after the initial recognition of
outcome can yet be made.
the sale. Accruals are made at the time of sale for the estimated
rebates, discounts or allowances payable or returns to be made, The ultimate liability for pending and unasserted claims may vary
based on available market information and historical experience. from the amounts provided, if any, and is dependent upon the
outcome of litigation proceedings, investigations and possible
Because the amounts are estimated they may not fully reflect the
settlement negotiations.
final outcome, and the amounts are subject to change dependent
upon, amongst other things, the types of buying group and
product sales mix.112 GSK Annual Report 2008
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
3 Key accounting judgements and estimates Pensions and other post-employment benefits
continued The costs of providing pensions and other post-employment
benefits are charged to the income statement in accordance
Property, plant and equipment
with IAS 19 over the period during which benefit is derived from
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed
the employee’s services. The costs are assessed on the basis of
for impairment when there is an indication that the values of the
assumptions selected by management. These assumptions include
assets might be impaired. Impairment is determined by reference
future earnings and pension increases, discount rates, expected
to the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use,
long term rates of return on assets and mortality rates, and are
measured by assessing risk-adjusted future cash flows discounted
disclosed in Note 28, ‘Pensions and other post-employment
using appropriate interest rates. These future cash flows are based
benefits’.
on business forecasts and are therefore inherently judgemental.
Future events could cause the assumptions used in these The expected long term rates of return on bonds are determined
impairment reviews to change with a consequent adverse effect based on the portfolio mix of index-linked, government and
on the future results of the Group. corporate bonds. An equity risk premium is added to this for equities.
Goodwill Discount rates are based on appropriate long-term indices, including
Goodwill arising on business combinations is capitalised and the iBoxx over 15 year AA index for the UK, and Moody’s Aa index
allocated to an appropriate cash generating unit. It is deemed for the USA. Sensitivity analysis is provided in Note 28, ‘Pensions
to have an indefinite life and so is not amortised. Annual and other post-employment benefits’, but a 0.25% reduction in
impairment tests of the relevant cash generating units are the discount rate would lead to an increase in the net pension
performed. Impairment tests are based on established market deficit of approximately £349 million and an increase in the annual
multiples or risk-adjusted future cash flows discounted using pension cost of approximately £4 million. The selection of different
appropriate interest rates. These future cash flows are based assumptions could affect the future results of the Group.
on business forecasts and are therefore inherently judgemental.
Future events could cause the assumptions used in these 4 New accounting requirements
impairment reviews to change with a consequent adverse
The following IFRS and IFRIC interpretations have been issued by
effect on the future results of the Group.
the IASB and are likely to affect future Annual Reports, although
Other intangible assets none is expected to have a material impact on the results or
Where intangible assets are acquired by GSK from third parties financial position of the Group.
the costs of acquisition are capitalised. Licences to compounds
IFRS 8 ‘Operating segments’ was issued in November 2006
in development are amortised from the point at which they are
and is required to be implemented by GSK from 1st January
available for use, over their estimated useful lives, which may
2009. This standard replaces IAS 14 and aligns the segmental
include periods of non-exclusivity. Estimated useful lives are
reporting requirements with those of the equivalent US
reviewed annually and impairment tests are undertaken if events
standard, whereby segmental information is to be disclosed
occur which call into question the carrying values of the assets.
on the same basis as that used for internal reporting purposes.
Brands acquired with businesses are capitalised independently
GSK is assessing the impact of this standard on the presentation
where they are separable and have an expected life of more than
of its segmental information.
one year. Brands are amortised on a straight-line basis over their
estimated useful lives, not exceeding 25 years, except where the IAS 23 (Revised) ‘Borrowing costs’ was issued in March 2007
end of the useful economic life cannot be foreseen. Where brands and will be implemented prospectively from 1st January 2009.
are not amortised, they are subject to annual impairment tests. It requires borrowing costs attributable to the acquisition or
Impairment tests are based on established market multiples or risk- construction of certain assets to be capitalised. The option
adjusted future cash flows discounted using appropriate interest currently taken by GSK of expensing such costs as incurred will no
rates. These future cash flows are based on business forecasts and longer be available.
are therefore inherently judgemental. Future events could cause
the assumptions used in these impairment reviews to change with
a consequent adverse effect on the future results of the Group.GSK Annual Report 2008 113
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
IAS 1 (Revised) ‘Presentation of financial statements’ was issued 5 Exchange rates
in September 2007 and will be effective from 1st January 2009. The Group uses the average of exchange rates prevailing during
The amendments to the Standard mandate various presentation the period to translate the results and cash flows of overseas
formats and disclosures, many of which are already adopted by subsidiaries, joint ventures and associated undertakings into
GSK. Movements in equity will be presented in a Statement of Sterling and period end rates to translate the net assets of
changes in equity rather than as a note to the financial statements. those undertakings. The currencies which most influence these
IFRS 2 (Revised) ‘Share-based payment’ was issued in January translations and the relevant exchange rates were:
2008. The revised Standard will apply retrospectively from
2008 2007 2006
1st January 2009 and specifies that all cancellations of share-
Average rates:
based payment arrangements, including those by an employee or
£/US$ 1.85 2.00 1.85
other counterparty, should receive the same accounting treatment
£/Euro 1.26 1.46 1.47
of requiring immediate recognition in the income statement of
£/Yen 192 235 215
the charge that would otherwise have been recognised over the
remainder of the service period. Period end rates:
£/US$ 1.44 1.99 1.96
The IASB’s annual improvements project was published in May
£/Euro 1.04 1.36 1.48
2008 and will be effective from 1st January 2009. The project £/Yen 131 222 233
makes minor amendments to a number of Standards on topics
including investments in associates, intangible assets, borrowing
costs and impairment of assets.
IFRS 3 (Revised) ‘Business combinations’ was issued in January
2008 and will apply to business combinations arising from
1st January 2010. Amongst other changes, the new Standard
will require recognition of subsequent changes in the fair value
of contingent consideration in the income statement rather
than against goodwill, and transaction costs to be recognised
immediately in the income statement. Fair value gains or losses on
existing investments in an acquired company will be recognised in
the income statement at the date of acquisition.
IAS 27 (Revised) ‘Consolidated and separate financial statements’
was issued in January 2008 and will be implemented at the
same time as IFRS 3 (Revised). In respect of transactions with
non-controlling interests in Group entities that do not result
in a change of control, the revised Standard requires that the
difference between the consideration paid or received and the
recorded non-controlling interest is recognised in equity. In the
case of divestment of a subsidiary, any retained interest will be
remeasured to fair value and the difference between fair value and
the previous carrying value will be recognised immediately in the
income statement.
IFRS 3 (Revised) and IAS 27 (Revised) will both be applied
prospectively to transactions occurring after the implementation
date. It is therefore not possible to assess in advance their impact
on the financial statements of the Group.114 GSK Annual Report 2008
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
6 Segment information
The Group’s primary segment reporting is by business sector with geographical reporting being the secondary format. The business sectors
consist of Pharmaceuticals and Consumer Healthcare. The geographical sectors of the USA, Europe and Rest of World reflect the Group’s
most significant regional markets and are consistent with the Group’s regional market management reporting structure. Business sector
data includes an allocation of corporate costs to each sector on an appropriate basis. There are no sales between business sectors. The
Group’s activities are organised on a global basis. The geographical sector figures are influenced by the location of the Group’s operating
resources, in particular manufacturing and research, and by variations over time in intra-Group trading and funding arrangements. Turnover
is shown by business sector, by location of customer and by location of subsidiary. Operating profit is shown by business sector and by
location of subsidiary. Other geographic information is given by location of subsidiary. Following a review of the strategic direction of
the Group during the year, several entities have been reclassified from Europe to Rest of World. In addition, one entity in China has been
reclassified from Pharmaceuticals to Consumer Healthcare. Comparative information has been restated onto a consistent basis.
2007 2006
2008 (restated) (restated)
£m £m £m
Turnover by business sector
Pharmaceuticals 20,381 19,163 20,013
Consumer Healthcare 3,971 3,553 3,212
Turnover 24,352 22,716 23,225
Profit by business sector
Pharmaceuticals 6,331 6,877 7,108
Consumer Healthcare 810 716 700
Operating profit 7,141 7,593 7,808
Finance income 313 262 287
Finance costs (843) (453) (352)
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures:
Pharmaceuticals 48 50 56
Consumer Healthcare – – –
Profit before taxation 6,659 7,452 7,799
Taxation (1,947) (2,142) (2,301)
Profit after taxation for the year 4,712 5,310 5,498
Property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets by business sector
Additions
Pharmaceuticals 2,173 2,562
Consumer Healthcare 138 327
Total additions 2,311 2,889
Depreciation/amortisation
Pharmaceuticals (1,175) (931)
Consumer Healthcare (56) (91)
Total depreciation/amortisation (1,231) (1,022)
Impairment
Pharmaceuticals (391) (216)
Consumer Healthcare – (2)
Total impairment (391) (218)
Impairment reversal
Pharmaceuticals 18 67
Consumer Healthcare 2 –
Total impairment reversal 20 67GSK Annual Report 2008 115
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
6 Segment information continued
2007
2008 (restated)
£m £m
Investments in associates and joint ventures by business sector
Pharmaceuticals 552 329
Consumer Healthcare – –
Investment in associates and joint ventures 552 329
Total assets by business sector
Pharmaceuticals 25,060 20,221
Consumer Healthcare 3,966 3,187
Total operating assets 29,026 23,408
Investments in associates and joint ventures 552 329
Liquid investments 391 1,153
Derivative financial instruments 963 476
Cash and cash equivalents 5,623 3,379
Current and deferred taxation 2,836 2,254
Assets held for sale 2 4
Total assets 39,393 31,003
Total liabilities by business sector
Pharmaceuticals (11,520) (7,633)
Consumer Healthcare (1,120) (906)
Total operating liabilities (12,640) (8,539)
Short-term borrowings (956) (3,504)
Long-term borrowings (15,231) (7,067)
Derivative financial instruments (754) (270)
Current and deferred taxation (1,494) (1,713)
Total liabilities (31,075) (21,093)
Net assets by business sector
Pharmaceuticals 13,540 12,588
Consumer Healthcare 2,846 2,281
Net operating assets 16,386 14,869
Net debt (10,173) (6,039)
Investments in associates and joint ventures 552 329
Derivative financial instruments 209 206
Current and deferred taxation 1,342 541
Assets held for sale 2 4
Net assets 8,318 9,910116 GSK Annual Report 2008
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
6 Segment information continued
2007 2006
2008 (restated) (restated)
£m £m £m
Turnover by location of customer
USA 9,746 10,168 11,102
Europe 8,262 7,107 6,905
Rest of World 6,344 5,441 5,218
Turnover 24,352 22,716 23,225
Turnover by location of subsidiary undertaking
USA 10,209 10,400 11,362
Europe 14,744 14,009 14,007
Rest of World 8,782 10,911 9,349
Turnover including inter-segment turnover 33,735 35,320 34,718
USA 398 341 339
Europe 5,671 6,042 6,337
Rest of World 3,314 6,221 4,817
Inter-segment turnover 9,383 12,604 11,493
USA 9,811 10,059 11,023
Europe 9,073 7,967 7,670
Rest of World 5,468 4,690 4,532
External turnover 24,352 22,716 23,225
Operating profit by location of subsidiary undertaking
USA 1,951 2,849 2,495
Europe 2,963 3,671 2,701
Rest of World 2,227 1,073 2,612
Operating profit 7,141 7,593 7,808
Property, plant and equipment and other intangible asset additions by location
USA 589 1,172
Europe 1,512 1,456
Rest of World 210 261
Total additions 2,311 2,889
Total assets by location
USA 8,147 6,125
Europe 15,584 12,812
Rest of World 5,610 5,106
Inter-segment trading balances (315) (635)
Total operating assets 29,026 23,408GSK Annual Report 2008 117
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
6 Segment information continued
2008 2007
£m £m
Net operating assets by location
USA 2,245 2,385
Europe 10,119 9,212
Rest of World 4,022 3,272
Net operating assets 16,386 14,869
UK segment
The UK is included in the Group’s Europe market region.
2008 2007 2006
£m £m £m
Turnover by location of customer 1,642 1,553 1,501
Turnover including inter-segment turnover 5,181 4,977 4,890
Inter-segment turnover 3,127 2,956 3,086
Turnover by location of subsidiary 2,054 2,021 1,804
Non-current assets 4,404 4,380
7 Major restructuring programmes
In October 2007, GSK announced a significant new Operational Excellence programme to improve the effectiveness and productivity of
its operations. A significant expansion of the Operational Excellence programme was approved by the Board and announced in February
2009. Total costs for the implementation of the expanded programme are expected to be approximately £3.6 billion, to be incurred over
the period from 2007 to 2011. Approximately 40% of these costs were incurred by 31st December 2008, and approximately 35% are
expected to be incurred in 2009, 20% in 2010 and the balance mostly in 2011. In total, approximately 75% of these costs are expected
to be cash expenditures and 25% are expected to be accounting write-downs. Uncertainties exist over the exact amount and timing of
cash outflows as a result of potential future exchange rate fluctuations and as many elements of the restructuring programme are subject
to employee consultation procedures, making it difficult to predict with precision when these procedures will be completed. However, the
majority of the remaining cash payments are expected to be made in 2009 and 2010. The programme is expected to deliver total annual
pre-tax savings of up to £1.7 billion by 2011, with savings realised across the business. Costs of £1,084 million incurred in 2008 under the
Operational Excellence programme have arisen in the following areas:
• the commencement of the closure of a number of manufacturing sites, including Dartford and Crawley in the UK and Cidra in Puerto
Rico, giving rise to asset write-downs, staff reductions and a foreign exchange loss on the liquidation of a subsidiary;
• the adoption of more customised sales approaches, leading to staff reductions in a number of sales forces, principally in the USA;
• cost saving projects in R&D, focused primarily on the simplification and streamlining of support infrastructure, and
• projects to eliminate unnecessary processes and simplify continuing processes, leading to staff reductions in administrative and
support functions.
In addition, costs of £34 million were incurred during the year under the restructuring programme related to the integration of the Reliant
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. business in the USA, following its acquisition in December 2007.118 GSK Annual Report 2008
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
7 Major restructuring programmes continued
The analysis of the costs incurred under these programmes in 2008 and 2007 is as follows:
Asset Staff Other
2008 impairment reductions costs Total
£m £m £m £m
Cost of sales (181) (370) (88) (639)
Selling, general and administration (2) (177) (125) (304)
Research and development (14) (143) (18) (175)
Effect on operating profit (197) (690) (231) (1,118)
Net finance expense (5)
Effect on profit before taxation (1,123)
Effect on taxation 284
Effect on earnings (839)
Asset Staff
2007 impairment reductions Total
£m £m £m
Cost of sales (77) (34) (111)
Selling, general and administration (1) (136) (137)
Research and development (28) (62) (90)
Effect on profit before taxation (106) (232) (338)
Effect on taxation 77
Effect on earnings (261)
Asset impairments of £197 million (2007 – £106 million) and other costs totalling £137 million (2007 – £nil) are non-cash items. All other
charges have been or will be settled in cash.
These restructuring costs are reported in the major restructuring column of the Income statement on page 102. There were no costs
related to major restructuring programmes in 2006. Other costs related to minor restructuring activity initiated prior to October 2007
amounting to £20 million (2007 – £92 million) are reported within ‘Results before major restructuring’.
The costs of the major restructuring programmes have arisen as follows:
2008 2007
£m £m
Increase in provision for major restructuring programmes (see Note 29) (740) (220)
Amount of provision reversed unused (see Note 29) 7 –
Impairments to property, plant and equipment (see Note 17) (197) (106)
Foreign exchange loss recognised on liquidation of subsidiary (84) –
Other non-cash charges (53) –
Other cash costs (51) (12)
Net finance expense (5) –
Effect on profit before taxation (1,123) (338)
Other non-cash charges are principally accelerated depreciation arising where asset lives have been shortened as a result of the major
restructuring programmes. Other cash costs include consultancy and project management fees, the termination of leases and site closure costs.GSK Annual Report 2008 119
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
8 Other operating income
2008 2007 2006
£m £m £m
Royalty and milestone income 318 223 112
Impairment of equity investments (63) (19) (14)
Disposal of equity investments 33 32 18
Disposal of other assets and legal settlements 260 181 151
Fair value adjustments on derivative financial instruments (10) 41 29
Other income 3 17 11
541 475 307
Royalty and milestone income is principally a core of recurring income from the out-licensing of intellectual property. Fair value
adjustments on derivative financial instruments include movements on the now expired Quest collar and Theravance put and call options.
9 Operating profit
2008 2007 2006
The following items have been included in operating profit: £m £m £m
Employee costs (Note 10) 6,524 5,733 5,495
Advertising 805 744 759
Distribution costs 310 270 276
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 920 796 732
Amortisation of intangible assets 311 226 226
Net foreign exchange (gains)/losses (145) (1) 36
Inventories:
Cost of inventories included in cost of sales 5,734 4,784 4,480
Write-down of inventories 258 265 146
Reversal of prior year write-down of inventories (118) (103) (93)
Operating lease rentals:
Minimum lease payments 143 121 114
Contingent rents 15 13 11
Sub-lease payments 1 2 2
Fees payable to company’s auditor for the audit of parent company and
consolidated financial statements 1.6 1.8 1.7
Fees payable to the company’s auditor and its associates for other services 17.6 14.5 15.9
The reversals of prior year write-downs of inventories principally arise from the reassessment of usage or demand expectations prior to
inventory expiration.
2008 2007 2006
Fees payable to the company’s auditor and its associates for other services £m £m £m
Audit of accounts of the Group’s UK and overseas subsidiaries and related pension
schemes of the company, pursuant to legislation 9.3 7.9 7.7
Other assurance services, pursuant to such legislation 2.9 2.9 4.4
Other tax services 2.5 2.5 1.9
All other services, including regulatory, compliance and treasury related services 2.9 1.2 1.9
17.6 14.5 15.9
At 31st December 2008, the amount due to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and its associates for fees yet to be invoiced was £4.5 million,
comprising statutory audit £4.0 million, taxation services £0.4 million and other services £0.1 million.
In 2008, fees payable to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and its associates increased by 10% in CER terms.
Fees in respect of the GlaxoSmithKline pension schemes included above:
2008 2007 2006
£m £m £m
Audit 0.4 0.2 0.3
Other services – 0.1 0.1
0.4 0.3 0.4120 GSK Annual Report 2008
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
10 Employee costs
2008 2007 2006
£m £m £m
Wages and salaries 4,640 4,444 4,363
Social security costs 653 527 461
Pension and other post-employment costs, including augmentations (Note 28) 505 313 377
Cost of share-based incentive plans 241 237 226
Severance and other costs from integration and restructuring activities 485 212 68
6,524 5,733 5,495
In 2008, wages and salaries declined by 4% in CER terms.
The Group provides benefits to employees, commensurate with local practice in individual countries, including, in some markets,
healthcare insurance, subsidised car schemes and personal life assurance.
2008 2007 2006
The average number of persons employed by the Group (including Directors) during the year:
Number Number Number
Manufacturing 33,372 33,975 32,403
Selling, general and administration 52,115 53,707 53,665
Research and development 15,646 15,719 15,734
101,133 103,401 101,802
The average number of Group employees excludes temporary and contract staff. The numbers of Group employees at the end of each
financial year are given in the Financial record on page 198. The average number of persons employed by GlaxoSmithKline plc in 2008
was nil (2007 – nil).
The compensation of the Directors and Senior Management (members of the CET) in aggregate, was as follows:
2008 2007 2006
£m £m £m
Wages and salaries 17 16 15
Social security costs 1 1 1
Pension and other post-employment costs 3 3 3
Cost of share-based incentive plans 12 15 14
33 35 33
11 Finance income
2008 2007 2006
£m £m £m
Interest income arising from:
– cash and cash equivalents 107 98 168
– available-for-sale investments 31 49 35
– derivatives at fair value through profit or loss 159 79 59
– loans and receivables 22 27 21
Realised gains on liquid investments 2 1 1
Fair value adjustments on derivatives at fair value through profit or loss 4 – 4
Net investment hedge ineffectiveness (13) 7 (2)
Unwinding of discounts on assets 1 1 1
313 262 287
All derivatives at fair value through profit or loss other than designated and effective hedging instruments (see Note 41, ‘Financial
instruments and related disclosures’) are classified as held-for-trading financial instruments under IAS 39. Interest income arising from
derivatives at fair value through profit or loss relates to swap interest income.GSK Annual Report 2008 121
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
12 Finance costs
2008 2007 2006
£m £m £m
Interest expense arising on:
financial liabilities at amortised cost (664) (313) (241)
derivatives at fair value through profit or loss (165) (121) (73)
Fair value hedges:
fair value adjustments on derivatives designated as hedging instruments 92 10 (31)
fair value adjustments on hedged items (90) (8) 28
Fair value adjustments on other derivatives at fair value through profit or loss – 6 1
Unwinding of discounts on provisions (16) (27) (36)
(843) (453) (352)
All derivatives at fair value through profit or loss except designated and effective hedging instruments are classified as held-for-trading
financial instruments under IAS 39.
13 Associates and joint ventures
2008 2007 2006
£m £m £m
Associates:
Share of after tax profits of Quest Diagnostics Inc. 47 48 59
Share of after tax losses of other associates (3) (3) (2)
44 45 57
Share of after tax profits/(losses) of joint ventures 4 5 (1)
48 50 56
Share of turnover of joint ventures 13 13 21
Sales to joint ventures and associates 9 9 18
Summarised income statement information in respect of the Group’s associates is set out below:
2008 2007 2006
£m £m £m
Total turnover:
Quest Diagnostics Inc. 3,919 3,352 3,389
Others 3 – 3
3,922 3,352 3,392
Total profit:
Quest Diagnostics Inc. 314 170 317
Others (7) (3) (2)
307 167 315122 GSK Annual Report 2008
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
14 Taxation
2008 2007 2006
Taxation charge based on profits for the year £m £m £m
UK corporation tax at the UK statutory rate 2,213 791 2,512
Less double taxation relief (1,924) (339) (2,112)
289 452 400
Overseas taxation 1,589 1,962 2,310
Current taxation 1,878 2,414 2,710
Deferred taxation 69 (272) (409)
1,947 2,142 2,301
2008 2007 2006
Reconciliation of the taxation rate on Group profits % % %
UK statutory rate of taxation 28.5 30.0 30.0
Overseas taxes 1.9 4.3 4.2
Benefit of special tax status (2.4) (3.6) (5.2)
R&D credits (1.3) (1.5) (1.3)
Intercompany stock profit 2.1 (0.8) (1.9)
Impact of share based payments 0.7 0.6 0.5
Tax on profit of associates (0.4) (0.3) (0.4)
Other differences 1.2 (0.3) 0.3
Prior year items (1.6) 0.1 3.3
Restructuring 0.5 0.2 –
Tax rate 29.2 28.7 29.5
Additional UK corporation tax and double taxation relief in 2008 arise from dividends received from overseas subsidiaries.
The Group operates in countries where the tax rate differs from the UK tax rate. The impact of these overseas taxes on the overall rate of
tax is shown above. Profits arising from certain operations in Singapore, Puerto Rico and Ireland are accorded special status and are taxed
at reduced rates compared with the normal rates of tax in these territories. The effect of this reduction in the taxation charge increased
earnings per share by 2.8p in 2008, 4.9p in 2007 and 7.2p in 2006. The Group is required under IFRS to create a deferred tax asset in
respect of unrealised intercompany profit arising on inventory held by the Group at the year-end by applying the tax rate of the country
in which the inventory is held (rather than the tax rate of the country where the profit was originally made and the tax paid, which is the
practice under UK and US GAAP). As a result of this difference in accounting treatment the Group tax rate under IFRS increased by 2.1%
in 2008 (2007 – 0.8% decrease, 2006 – 1.9% decrease) arising from changes in work-in-progress and finished goods.
The integrated nature of the Group’s worldwide operations, involving significant investment in research and strategic manufacture at a
limited number of locations, with consequential cross-border supply routes into numerous end-markets, gives rise to complexity and delay
in negotiations with revenue authorities as to the profits on which individual Group companies are liable to tax. Resolution of such issues
is a continuing fact of life for GSK. The Group’s main open tax issues are in the USA, Canada and Japan.
In July, following discussions with HMRC, the Group settled substantially all outstanding UK tax issues for all periods up to and including
31st December 2006.
Following its audit of the period 2001 to 2003, the IRS issued Statutory Notices of Deficiency to GSK asserting income and withholding
tax deficiencies, and associated penalties, arising from its reclassification of an intercompany financing arrangement in those years from
debt to equity, and its consequent recharacterisation of the amounts paid as dividends subject to withholding tax under the US – UK
treaty. All amounts due under the financing arrangement were paid on a timely basis, with the final payment made in April 2008. The
IRS commenced its audit of the period 2004 to 2006 in June 2008 and is examining the issue for these years. GSK disagrees with the IRS
position and, in August 2008, initiated actions in the United States Tax Court to contest the Statutory Notices of Deficiency. GSK estimates
that the IRS claim for tax, penalties, and interest at 31st December 2008, net of federal tax relief, for 2001 to 2003 is $864 million.
GSK believes that this claim has no merit and that no adjustment is warranted. If, contrary to GSK’s view, the IRS prevailed in its argument
before a court in respect of the years 2001 to 2003, GSK would expect to have an additional liability for the five year period 2004-2008 in
the amount of $1,059 million in tax, penalties, and interest at 31st December 2008, net of federal tax relief for those years. In the event
that the company is not able to resolve this issue with the IRS, a court decision would not be expected before 2011.GSK Annual Report 2008 123
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
14 Taxation continued
Lower courts in Japan have upheld claims by the tax authorities for Yen 39 billion (£177 million) relating to Japanese CFC legislation.
The company has paid and fully provided for the full tax but is pursuing a claim for refund to the Japanese Supreme Court. In Canada a
court decision in respect of transfer pricing in the early 1990s was completed in May 2008. GSK filed an appeal in June and a court date
is awaited.
GSK continues to believe that it has made adequate provision for the liabilities likely to arise from open assessments. The ultimate liability
for such matters may vary from the amounts provided and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation proceedings and negotiations
with the relevant tax authorities.
No provision has been made for taxation which would arise on the distribution of profits retained by overseas subsidiary and associated
undertakings, on the grounds that no remittance of profit retained at 31st December 2008 is required in such a way that incremental tax
will arise. The aggregate amount of these unremitted profits at the balance sheet date was approximately £28 billion (2007 – £31 billion).
Payable Recoverable Net
Movement on current tax account £m £m £m
At 1st January 2008 (826) 58 (768)
Exchange adjustments (109) 15 (94)
Charge for the year (1,687) (191) (1,878)
Cash paid 1,663 187 1,850
Transfer to/from deferred tax 138 – 138
Other movements 41 7 48
At 31st December 2008 (780) 76 (704)
Movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities
Pensions & Manu- Share Other
Accelerated Intra- other post Legal facturing Stock option net Offset
Deferred taxation capital group retirement Tax & other restruct- valuation and award temporary within
allowances Intangibles profit benefits losses disputes uring adjustments schemes differences countries Total
asset/(liability)
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Deferred tax asset at
1st January 2008 4 94 1,140 458 137 170 108 18 101 640 (674) 2,196
Deferred tax liability at
1st January 2008 (596) (782) – (2) – – – (127) – (54) 674 (887)
At 1st January 2008 (592) (688) 1,140 456 137 170 108 (109) 101 586 – 1,309
Exchange adjustments (44) (145) 250 182 52 72 17 (55) – 196 – 525
(Charge)/credit to income
statement (69) 61 (156) 52 (41) 3 83 (68) 6 60 – (69)
Credit/(charge) to equity – – – 441 – – – – (5) 6 – 442
Transfer to/from current tax 2 – – (69) – 4 (46) – – (29) – (138)
Acquisitions – (46) – – 25 – – – – (2) – (23)
At 31st December 2008 (703) (818) 1,234 1,062 173 249 162 (232) 102 817 – 2,046
Deferred tax assets at
31st December 2008 23 152 1,234 1,062 196 249 162 15 102 830 (1,265) 2,760
Deferred tax liability at
31st December 2008 (726) (970) – – (23) – – (247) – (13) 1,265 (714)
(703) (818) 1,234 1,062 173 249 162 (232) 102 817 – 2,046
The deferred tax charge to income relating to changes in tax rates is £18 million. All other deferred tax movements arise from the
origination and reversal of temporary differences. Other net temporary differences include accrued expenses and other provisions.124 GSK Annual Report 2008
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
14 Taxation continued
At 31st December 2008, the Group had recognised a deferred tax asset of £173 million (2007 – £137 million) in respect of income tax
losses of approximately £566 million (2007 – £494 million). Of these losses, £142 million (2007 – £139 million) are due to expire between
2009–2019, £357 million (2007 – £327 million) are due to expire between 2020–2028 and £67 million (2007 – £28 million) are available
indefinitely. At 31st December 2008, the Group had not recognised any deferred tax asset in respect of income tax losses of approximately
£4,526 million (2007 – £3,688 million), of which £37 million (2007 – £62 million) are due to expire between 2009–2019, £66 million
(2007 – £45 million) are due to expire between 2020–2028 and £4,423 million (2007 – £3,581 million) which are available indefinitely.
The Group had capital losses at 31st December 2008 of approximately £5 billion in respect of which no deferred tax asset has been
recognised. Deferred tax assets are recognised where it is probable that future taxable profit will be available to utilise losses.
15 Earnings per share
2008 2007 2006
pence pence pence
Basic earnings per share 88.6 94.4 95.5
Adjustment for major restructuring 16.1 4.7
Results before major restructuring earnings per share (basic) 104.7 99.1
Diluted earnings per share 88.1 93.7 94.5
Adjustment for major restructuring 16.0 4.6
Results before major restructuring earnings per share (diluted) 104.1 98.3
Basic and adjusted earnings per share have been calculated by dividing the profit attributable to shareholders by the weighted average
number of shares in issue during the period after deducting shares held by the ESOP Trusts and Treasury shares.
Adjusted earnings per share is calculated using results before major restructuring earnings. The calculation of results before major
restructuring is described in Note 1 ‘Presentation of the financial statements’.
Diluted earnings per share have been calculated after adjusting the weighted average number of shares used in the basic calculation to
assume the conversion of all potentially dilutive shares. A potentially dilutive share forms part of the employee share schemes where its
exercise price is below the average market price of GSK shares during the period and any performance conditions attaching to the scheme
have been met at the balance sheet date.
The numbers of shares used in calculating basic and diluted earnings per share are reconciled below.
Weighted average number of shares in issue 2008 2007 2006
millions millions millions
Basic 5,195 5,524 5,643
Dilution for share options 31 43 57
Diluted 5,226 5,567 5,700
Shares held by the ESOP Trusts are excluded. The trustees have waived their rights to dividends on the shares held by the ESOP Trusts.GSK Annual Report 2008 125
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
16 Dividends
First interim Second interim Third interim Fourth interim Total
2008
Total dividend (£m) 683 679 730 860 2,952
Dividend per share (pence) 13 13 14 17 57
Paid/payable 10th July 2008 9th October 2008 8th January 2009 9th April 2009
2007
Total dividend (£m) 670 667 708 859 2,904
Dividend per share (pence) 12 12 13 16 53
Paid 12th July 200711th October 2007 10th January 2008 10th April 2008
2006
Total dividend (£m) 619 620 671 785 2,695
Dividend per share (pence) 11 11 12 14 48
Paid 6th July 2006 5th October 2006 4th January 2007 12th April 2007
Under IFRS interim dividends are only recognised in the financial statements when paid and not when declared. GSK normally pays a
dividend two quarters after the quarter to which it relates and one quarter after it is declared. The 2008 financial statements recognise
those dividends paid in 2008, namely the third and fourth interim dividends for 2007 and the first and second interim dividends for 2008.
The amounts recognised in each year are as follows:
2008 2007 2006
£m £m £m
Dividends to shareholders 2,929 2,793 2,598
17 Property, plant and equipment
Plant,
Land and equipment Assets in
buildings and vehicles construction Total
£m £m £m £m
Cost at 1st January 2007 4,244 7,776 1,423 13,443
Exchange adjustments 143 229 61 433
Additions 140 401 1,042 1,583
Additions through business combinations 1 7 – 8
Disposals and write-offs (20) (309) (16) (345)
Reclassifications 134 418 (552) –
Transfer to assets held for sale (8) (25) (2) (35)
Cost at 31st December 2007 4,634 8,497 1,956 15,087
Exchange adjustments 1,046 1,471 442 2,959
Additions 124 425 895 1,444
Additions through business combinations 13 7 – 20
Disposals and write-offs (128) (356) (27) (511)
Reclassifications 292 643 (944) (9)
Transfer to assets held for sale (2) (1) – (3)
Cost at 31st December 2008 5,979 10,686 2,322 18,987126 GSK Annual Report 2008
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
17 Property, plant and equipment continued
Plant,
Land and equipment Assets in
buildings and vehicles construction Total
£m £m £m £m
Depreciation at 1st January 2007 (1,325) (4,805) – (6,130)
Exchange adjustments (45) (125) – (170)
Provision for the year (177) (619) – (796)
Disposals and write-offs 10 242 – 252
Transfer to assets held for sale 3 17 – 20
Depreciation at 31st December 2007 (1,534) (5,290) – (6,824)
Exchange adjustments (385) (914) – (1,299)
Provision for the year (228) (692) – (920)
Disposals and write-offs 85 265 – 350
Transfer to assets held for sale – 1 – 1
Depreciation at 31st December 2008 (2,062) (6,630) – (8,692)
Impairment at 1st January 2007 (141) (231) (11) (383)
Exchange adjustments (2) (3) (1) (6)
Disposals and write-offs 7 32 5 44
Impairment losses (29) (53) (82) (164)
Reversal of impairments 43 16 8 67
Impairment at 31st December 2007 (122) (239) (81) (442)
Exchange adjustments (22) (27) (14) (63)
Disposals and write-offs 50 67 27 144
Impairment losses (70) (176) (20) (266)
Reclassifications – (44) 44 –
Reversal of impairments 3 7 – 10
Impairment at 31st December 2008 (161) (412) (44) (617)
Total depreciation and impairment at 31st December 2007 (1,656) (5,529) (81) (7,266)
Total depreciation and impairment at 31st December 2008 (2,223) (7,042) (44) (9,309)
Net book value at 1st January 2007 2,778 2,740 1,412 6,930
Net book value at 31st December 2007 2,978 2,968 1,875 7,821
Net book value at 31st December 2008 3,756 3,644 2,278 9,678
The net book value at 31st December 2008 of the Group’s land and buildings comprises freehold properties £3,510 million
(2007 – £2,752 million), properties with leases of 50 years or more £185 million (2007 – £168 million) and properties with leases of less
than 50 years £61 million (2007 – £58 million).
Included in land and buildings at 31st December 2008 are leased assets with a cost of £519 million (2007 – £424 million), accumulated
depreciation of £263 million (2007 – £198 million), impairment of £8 million (2007 – £nil) and a net book value of £248 million
(2007 – £226 million). Included in plant, equipment and vehicles at 31st December 2008 are leased assets with a cost of £77 million
(2007 – £180 million), accumulated depreciation of £36 million (2007 – £81 million), and a net book value of £41 million
(at 1st January 2008 – £99 million). Some lease agreements include renewal or purchase options or escalation clauses.GSK Annual Report 2008 127
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
17 Property, plant and equipment continued
The impairment losses principally arise from decisions to rationalise facilities and are calculated based on either fair value less costs to sell
or value in use. The value in use calculations determine the net present value of the projected risk-adjusted, post-tax cash flows of the
relevant asset or cash generating unit, applying a discount rate of the Group post-tax weighted average cost of capital (WACC) of 8%,
adjusted where appropriate for country specific risks. Where an impairment is indicated and a pre-tax cash flow calculation is expected to
give a materially different result, the test would be reperformed using pre-tax cash flows and a pre-tax discount rate. The Group WACC
is equivalent to a pre-tax discount rate of approximately 11%. The impairment losses have been charged through cost of sales (£209
million), R&D (£47 million) and SG&A (£10 million), and include £197 million (2007 – £106 million) arising from the major
restructuring programmes.
Reversals of impairment arise from subsequent reviews of the impaired assets where the conditions which gave rise to the original
impairments are deemed no longer to apply. All of the reversals have been credited to cost of sales.
18 Goodwill
2008 2007
£m £m
Cost at 1st January 1,370 758
Exchange adjustments 437 81
Additions through business combinations 294 533
Impairments – (2)
Cost at 31st December 2,101 1,370
Net book value at 1st January 1,370 758
Net book value at 31st December 2,101 1,370
The additions in the year, translated at acquisition exchange rates, comprise £242 million on the acquisition of Sirtris Pharmaceuticals Inc. and
£52 million on the acquisition of the BMS Egypt business. See Note 38, ‘Acquisitions and disposals’ for further details.
The carrying value of goodwill, translated at year-end exchange rates, is made up of balances arising on acquisition of the
following companies:
2008 2007
Cash generating unit £m £m
Reliant Pharmaceuticals, Inc. US Pharmaceuticals 485 356
ID Biomedical Corporation Vaccines 404 367
Sirtris Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Worldwide Pharmaceuticals 329 –
GlaxoSmithKline K.K. Japan Pharmaceuticals 238 140
Domantis Limited Worldwide Pharmaceuticals 181 181
CNS, Inc. Consumer Healthcare 153 111
Polfa Poznan S.A. Poland Pharmaceuticals 128 111
BMS Egypt Emerging Markets Pharmaceuticals 48 –
Corixa Corporation Vaccines 33 24
Others 102 80
2,101 1,370128 GSK Annual Report 2008
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
18 Goodwill continued
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units which are tested for impairment at least annually. The valuations of the Worldwide
Pharmaceuticals cash generating unit (for Sirtris Pharmaceuticals and Domantis) and the US Pharmaceuticals cash generating unit (for
Reliant Pharmaceuticals) have both been prepared on a fair value less costs to sell basis, using turnover and earnings multiples derived
from observed market data. In each case the value of goodwill inherent in the cash generating units is considerably in excess of the book
values of the acquired goodwill.
The recoverable amounts of the other cash generating units are assessed using either a value in use or a fair value less costs to sell model.
Value in use is calculated as the net present value of the projected risk-adjusted post-tax cash flows plus a terminal value of the cash
generating unit to which the goodwill is allocated. Initially a post-tax discount rate is applied to calculate the net present value of the
post-tax cash flows. The post-tax discount rate used is based on the Group WACC of 8%, as most cash generating units have integrated
operations across large parts of the Group. The discount rate is increased where specific country risks are sufficiently significant to have a
material impact on the outcome of the impairment test. The Group WACC is equivalent to a pre-tax discount rate of approximately 11%.
Where the impairment test indicates that the recoverable value of the unit is close to or below its carrying value, it is reperformed using a
pre-tax discount rate and pre-tax cash flows in order to determine if an impairment exists and to establish its magnitude.
Fair value is calculated using a similar discounted cash flow approach based on the Group’s acquisition valuation model. A post-tax
discount rate is applied to the projected risk-adjusted post-tax cash flows and terminal value.
Details relating to the discounted cash flow models used in the impairment tests of the other significant goodwill balances are as follows:
Vaccines CGU Japan Pharmaceuticals CGU Consumer Healthcare CGU Poland Pharmaceuticals CGU
for ID Biomedical for GlaxoSmithKline KK for CNS for Polfa Poznan
Valuation basis Fair value less costs to sell Fair value less costs to sell Fair value less costs to sell Value in use
Key assumptions Sales growth rates Sales growth rates Sales growth rates Sales growth rates
Profit margins Profit margins Advertising and Profit margins
Discount rate Discount rate promotion investment Discount rate
Terminal growth rate
Determination of Growth rates are internal Growth rates are internal Growth rates are internal Growth rates are internal
assumptions forecasts based on both forecasts based on both forecasts based on both forecasts based on both
internal and external internal and external internal and external internal and external
market information. market information. market information. market information.
Margins reflect past Margins reflect past Advertising and promotion Margins reflect past
experience, adjusted for experience, adjusted for investment based on experience, adjusted for
expected changes. expected changes. historical levels adjusted expected changes.
Discount rate based on Discount rate based on for management’s view of Discount rate based on
Group WACC. Group WACC. support needed for Group WACC.
innovation and expansion.
Terminal growth rate
based on management’s
estimate of future long-
term average growth rates.
Period of specific 5 years 5 years 4 years 5 years
projected cashflows
Discount rate 8% 8% 8% 8%
Terminal
growth rate 2% p.a. 2% p.a. 3% p.a. 13% p.a. decline.
The terminal growth rates do not exceed the long-term projected growth rates for the relevant markets. The terminal growth rate used in
the value in use calculation for the Poland Pharmaceuticals CGU reflects the impact of future generic competition and takes no account
of new product launches. The Consumer Healthcare cash generating unit comprises a collection of smaller cash generating units including
brands with indefinite lives with a carrying value of £1,794 million (2007 – £1,332 million) as detailed in Note 19 ‘Other intangible assets’.
In each case the valuations indicate sufficient headroom such that a reasonably possible change to key assumptions is unlikely to result
in an impairment of the related goodwill.GSK Annual Report 2008 129
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
19 Other intangible assets
Computer Licences, Amortised Indefinite life
software patents, etc. brands brands Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Cost at 1st January 2007 715 2,282 64 1,309 4,370
Exchange adjustments 9 128 (1) 44 180
Capitalised internal development costs 41 6 – – 47
Additions through business combinations 1 670 – – 671
Other additions 44 333 203 – 580
Disposals and asset write-offs (8) (26) – – (34)
Transfer to assets held for sale (1) – – – (1)
Cost at 31st December 2007 801 3,393 266 1,353 5,813
Exchange adjustments 110 738 65 371 1,284
Capitalised internal development costs 27 – – – 27
Additions through business combinations – 171 – – 171
Other additions 58 492 – 99 649
Disposals and asset write-offs (2) – – – (2)
Reclassifications 9 – – – 9
Cost at 31st December 2008 1,003 4,794 331 1,823 7,951
Amortisation at 1st January 2007 (444) (475) (4) – (923)
Exchange adjustments (8) (13) (1) – (22)
Provision for the year (80) (141) (5) – (226)
Disposals and asset write-offs 1 7 – – 8
Transfer to assets held for sale 1 – – – 1
Amortisation at 31st December 2007 (530) (622) (10) – (1,162)
Exchange adjustments (75) (168) (3) – (246)
Provision for the year (96) (204) (11) – (311)
Disposals and asset write-offs 3 (1) – – 2
Amortisation at 31st December 2008 (698) (995) (24) – (1,717)
Impairment at 1st January 2007 (24) (109) – (21) (154)
Exchange adjustments – (6) – – (6)
Impairment losses – (54) – – (54)
Disposals and asset write-offs – 19 – – 19
Impairment at 31st December 2007 (24) (150) – (21) (195)
Exchange adjustments (1) (46) – (8) (55)
Impairment losses (7) (118) – – (125)
Impairment reversals – 10 – – 10
Impairment at 31st December 2008 (32) (304) – (29) (365)
Total amortisation and impairment at 31st December 2007 (554) (772) (10) (21) (1,357)
Total amortisation and impairment at 31st December 2008 (730) (1,299) (24) (29) (2,082)
Net book value at 1st January 2007 247 1,698 60 1,288 3,293
Net book value at 31st December 2007 247 2,621 256 1,332 4,456
Net book value at 31st December 2008 273 3,495 307 1,794 5,869130 GSK Annual Report 2008
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
19 Other intangible assets continued
Amortisation and impairment losses, net of reversals, have been charged in the income statement as follows:
Amortisation Net impairment losses
2008 2007 2008 2007
£m £m £m £m
Cost of sales 34 32 – –
Selling, general and administration 181 123 25 3
Research and development 96 71 90 51
311 226 115 54
The additions through business combinations in the year of £171 million comprise £106 million acquired with the acquisition of Sirtris
Pharmaceuticals and £65 million acquired with the acquisition of BMS Egypt (see Note 38, ‘Acquisitions and disposals’). At 31st December
2008, the net book value included £795 million arising from the acquisition of Reliant Pharmaceuticals Inc. in 2007 and £654 million
arising from the acquisition of ID Biomedical Corporation in 2005. It also included £132 million (2007 – £136 million) of internally
generated costs of which £125 million (2007 – £130 million) related to computer software and £7 million (2007 – £6 million) related to
compounds in development.
Amortised brands include OTC rights relating to alli, with a book value at 31st December 2008 of £294 million (2007 – £249 million).
Indefinite life brands comprise a portfolio of Consumer Healthcare products acquired with the acquisitions of Sterling Winthrop, Inc.
in 1994, Block Drug Company, Inc. in 2001 and CNS, Inc. in 2006. The book values of the major brands are as follows:
2008 2007
£m £m
Panadol 411 330
Sensodyne 289 231
Breathe Right 216 165
Polident 123 98
Corega 109 87
Biotene 99 –
Poligrip 75 60
Solpadeine 60 57
Others 412 304
1,794 1,332
Each of these brands is considered to have an indefinite life, given the strength and durability of the brand and the level of marketing
support. The brands are in relatively similar stable and profitable market sectors, with similar risk profiles, and their size, diversification and
market shares mean that the risk of market-related factors causing a reduction in the lives of the brands is considered to be relatively low.
The Group is not aware of any material legal, regulatory, contractual, competitive, economic or other factor which could limit their useful
lives. Accordingly, they are not amortised.
Each brand is tested annually for impairment applying a fair value less costs to sell methodology, generally using four year post-tax cash
flow forecasts with a terminal value calculation and a discount rate equal to the Group post-tax weighted average cost of capital of
8%, adjusted where appropriate for country-specific risks. The main assumptions include future sales price and volume growth, product
contribution and the future expenditure required to maintain the product’s marketability and registration in the relevant jurisdictions.
These assumptions are based on past experience and are reviewed as part of management’s budgeting and strategic planning cycle for
changes in market conditions and sales erosion through competition. The terminal growth rates applied of between 2% and 3% are
management’s estimates of future long-term average growth rates of the relevant markets. In each case the valuations indicate sufficient
headroom such that a reasonably possible change to key assumptions is unlikely to result in an impairment of these brands.GSK Annual Report 2008 131
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
20 Investments in associates and joint ventures
Joint Associated 2008 Joint Associated 2007
ventures undertakings Total ventures undertakings Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1st January 15 314 329 16 279 295
Exchange adjustments 6 131 137 – (4) (4)
Additions 6 3 9 – 1 1
Transfer from other investments – 39 39 – – –
Fair value adjustment – 3 3 – 1 1
Retained profit/(loss) for the year 1 34 35 (1) 37 36
At 31st December 28 524 552 15 314 329
The principal associated undertaking is Quest Diagnostics Inc., a US clinical laboratory business listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
The investment had a book value at 31st December 2008 of £463 million (2007 – £299 million) and a market value of £1,316 million
(2007 – £970 million). At 31st December 2008, the Group owned 18.7% of Quest (2007 – 18.9%). Although the Group holds less than
20% of the ownership interest and voting control in Quest, the Group has the ability to exercise significant influence through both its
significant shareholding and its nominated director’s active participation on the Quest Board of Directors and Board sub-committees.
The transfers from other investments relates to the Group’s holding in Chemocentryx, previously classified within Other investments,
which increased during the year to 23.5%.
Summarised balance sheet information in respect of the Group’s associates is set out below:
2008 2007
£m £m
Total assets:
Quest Diagnostics Inc. 5,836 4,305
Others 115 37
5,951 4,342
Total liabilities:
Quest Diagnostics Inc. (3,333) (2,634)
Others (20) –
(3,353) (2,634)
Net assets 2,598 1,708
Group’s share of associates’ net assets 524 314
In 2002, GSK hedged part of the equity value of its holding in Quest Diagnostics Inc. through a series of variable sale forward contracts.
The contracts (‘the equity collar’) were renewed in 2006 and were structured in five series, each over two million Quest shares, and were
due to mature between 2010 and 2012. A second series of hedging contracts over an additional 10 million shares was entered into on
15th February 2007. These contracts were also structured in five series, each over two million Quest shares, and were due to mature
between 2013 and 2015. During the year, these contracts held with Lehman Brothers Finance S.A., with respect to a total of 20 million
Quest shares terminated with no material financial impact to GSK.
Investments in joint ventures comprise £36 million share of gross assets (2007 – £21 million) and £8 million share of gross liabilities
(2007 – £6 million). These principally arise from 50% interests in two joint ventures, Shionogi-GlaxoSmithKline Holdings, L.P., which is
developing specified chemical compounds, and GlaxoSmithKline Shire Canada, which primarily co-markets Combivir, Trizivir and Epivir in
certain territories, together with a 29% interest in another joint venture, Pharmaceutical Insurance Limited, which is a mutual insurance
company covering pharmaceutical property risk.132 GSK Annual Report 2008
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
21 Other investments
2008 2007
£m £m
At 1st January 517 441
Exchange adjustments 129 12
Additions 87 206
Net fair value movements (94) (67)
Impairments (65) (31)
Transfer to associates (39) –
Disposals (57) (44)
At 31st December 478 517
Other investments comprise non-current equity investments which are available-for-sale investments recorded at fair value at each
balance sheet date. For investments traded in an active market, the fair value is determined by reference to the relevant stock exchange
quoted bid price. For other investments, the fair value is estimated by reference to the current market value of similar instruments or
by reference to the discounted cash flows of the underlying net assets. Equity investments are recorded as non-current assets unless
they are expected to be sold within one year, in which case they are recorded as current assets. The Group holds a number of equity
investments in entities where the Group has entered into research collaborations. Other investments include listed investments of
£319 million (2007 – £413 million) that offer the Group the opportunity for return through dividend income and fair value gains.
On disposal of investments, fair value movements are reclassified from reserves to the income statement based on average cost for
shares acquired at different times.
The impairment losses recorded in the tables above have been recognised in the income statement for the year within other operating
income, together with amounts recycled from the fair value reserve on recognition of the impairments. These impairments initially
result from prolonged or significant declines in the fair value of the equity investments below acquisition cost, subsequent to which any
further declines in fair value are immediately taken to the income statement. At 31st December 2008 impaired assets with a fair value of
£118 million (2007 – £90 million) are included in other investments.
The transfer to associates relates to the Group’s holding in Chemocentryx which increased during the year to 23.5%.
22 Other non-current assets
2008 2007
£m £m
Amounts recoverable under insurance contracts 293 271
Pension schemes in surplus 39 255
Other receivables 247 161
579 687
23 Inventories
2008 2007
£m £m
Raw materials and consumables 1,127 1,105
Work in progress 1,295 771
Finished goods 1,634 1,186
4,056 3,062GSK Annual Report 2008 133
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
24 Trade and other receivables
2008 2007
£m £m
Trade receivables 5,333 4,649
Prepaid pension contributions 1 1
Other prepayments and accrued income 294 238
Interest receivable 39 37
Employee loans and advances 63 55
Other receivables 535 515
6,265 5,495
Trade receivables include £14 million (2007 – £8 million) due from associates and joint ventures.
Bad and doubtful debt provision 2008 2007
£m £m
At 1st January 98 104
Exchange adjustments 29 6
Charge for the year 21 18
Subsequent recoveries of amounts provided for (15) (28)
Utilised (4) (2)
At 31st December 129 98
25 Cash and cash equivalents
2008 2007
£m £m
Cash at bank and in hand 652 627
Short-term deposits 4,971 2,383
Commercial paper – 369
5,623 3,379
26 Assets held for sale
2008 2007
£m £m
Land and buildings 2 3
Plant, equipment and vehicles – 1
2 4134 GSK Annual Report 2008
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
27 Trade and other payables
2008 2007
£m £m
Trade payables 1,153 931
Wages and salaries 946 812
Social security 148 116
Other payables 233 214
Deferred income 103 48
Customer return and rebate accruals 1,337 973
Other accruals 2,155 1,767
6,075 4,861
Customer return and rebate accruals are provided for by the Group at the point of sale in respect of the estimated rebates, discounts
or allowances payable to customers, principally in the USA. Provisions are made at the time of sale but the actual amounts paid are
based on claims made some time after the initial recognition of the sale. As the amounts are estimated they may not fully reflect the
final outcome and the amounts are subject to change dependent upon, amongst other things, the types of buying group and product
sales mix. The level of provision is reviewed and adjusted quarterly in the light of historical experience of actual rebates, discounts
or allowances given and returns made and any changes in arrangements. Future events could cause the assumptions on which the
provisions are based to change, which could affect the future results of the Group.
28 Pensions and other post-employment benefits
2008 2007 2006
Pension and other post-employment costs £m £m £m
UK pension schemes 236 108 159
US pension schemes 60 24 35
Other overseas pensions schemes 87 89 91
Unfunded post-retirement healthcare schemes 118 90 91
Other post-employment costs 4 2 1
505 313 377
Analysed as:
Funded defined benefit/hybrid pension schemes 318 171 237
Unfunded defined benefit pension schemes 23 17 19
Unfunded post-retirement healthcare schemes 118 90 91
Defined benefit schemes 459 278 347
Defined contribution pension schemes 42 33 29
Other post-employment costs 4 2 1
505 313 377
The costs of the defined benefit pension and post-retirement healthcare schemes are charged in the income statement as follows:
Cost of sales 179 72 74
Selling, general and administration 160 129 175
Research and development 120 77 98
459 278 347
GSK entities operate pension arrangements which cover the Group’s material obligations to provide pensions to retired employees.
These arrangements have been developed in accordance with local practices in the countries concerned. Pension benefits can be provided
by state schemes; by defined contribution schemes, whereby retirement benefits are determined by the value of funds arising from
contributions paid in respect of each employee; or by defined benefit schemes, whereby retirement benefits are based on employee
pensionable remuneration and length of service. Some ‘hybrid’ defined benefit schemes also include defined contribution sections.GSK Annual Report 2008 135
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
28 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
Pension costs of defined benefit schemes for accounting purposes have been calculated using the projected unit method. In certain
countries pension benefits are provided on an unfunded basis, some administered by trustee companies. Formal, independent, actuarial
valuations of the Group’s main plans are undertaken regularly, normally at least every three years.
Actuarial movements in the year are recognised through the statement of recognised income and expense. The UK and US discount rates
are derived from AA rated corporate bond yields and are intended to reflect the term of the expected benefit payments. The expected
rate of return on bonds reflects the portfolio mix of index-linked, government and corporate bonds. An equity risk premium of between
3% and 4% is added to longer term government bond yields to give the expected rate of return on equities. Projected inflation rate and
pension increases are long-term predictions based on the yield gap between long-term index-linked and fixed interest Gilts. In the UK,
mortality rates are determined by adjusting the PA92 standard mortality tables to reflect recent scheme experience. These rates are then
projected to reflect improvements in life expectancy in line with the medium cohort (i.e. improvements at recently observed higher levels
which are assumed to continue to 2020) with minimum improvements thereafter of 1% per year for males and 0.5% for females. In the
USA, mortality rates are calculated using the RP2000 fully generational table, projected using scale AA, with the white collar adjustment.
The mortality assumptions for the UK and US schemes were reviewed in 2007 and updated in 2008. GSK expects to review these again in 2009.
The average life expectancy assumed now for an individual at the age of 60 and projected to apply in 2028 for an individual then at the
age of 60 is as follows:
UK USA
Male Female Male Female
Years Years Years Years
Current 26.8 28.1 24.5 26.2
Projected for 2028 29.3 30.0 25.9 27.0
The assets of funded schemes are generally held in separately administered trusts or are insurance contracts. Assets are invested in
different classes in order to maintain a balance between risk and return. Investments are diversified to limit the financial effect of the
failure of any individual investment. Following an asset liability study in 2007, the Group decided to adopt a strategy to reduce gradually
the allocation of investment in equities. In the UK it is proposed that the strategy will be linked to the funding levels in the schemes and
this will be considered further with the trustees of the UK schemes in 2009. The target allocation of equities and property in the US
scheme was reduced from 80% of the total to 60% in 2008.
In the UK the defined benefit pension schemes operated for the benefit of former Glaxo Wellcome employees and former SmithKline
Beecham employees remain separate. These schemes were closed to new entrants in 2001 and subsequent UK employees are entitled
to join a defined contribution scheme. In the USA the former Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham defined benefit schemes were
merged during 2001. In addition, the Group operates a number of post-retirement healthcare schemes, the principal one of which is in
the USA.
The Group has applied the following financial assumptions in assessing the defined benefit liabilities:
UK USA Rest of World
2008 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006
% pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa
Rate of increase of future earnings 3.90 4.25 4.25 4.50 5.00 5.00 3.10 3.25 3.25
Discount rate 6.20 5.75 5.00 6.00 6.00 5.75 5.00 4.75 4.25
Expected pension increases 2.90 3.25 3.00 n/a n/a n/a 2.10 2.00 2.00
Cash balance credit/conversion rate n/a n/a n/a 4.50 4.75 4.75 1.20 1.60 1.75
Inflation rate 2.70 3.25 3.00 2.50 2.50 2.50 1.70 1.75 1.75136 GSK Annual Report 2008
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
28 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
The amounts recorded in the income statement and statement of recognised income and expense for the three years ended 31st December
2008 in relation to the defined benefit pension and post-retirement healthcare schemes were as follows:
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
2008 UK USA Rest of World Group Group
£m £m £m £m £m
Amounts charged to operating profit
Current service cost 126 61 59 246 30
Past service cost – 10 2 12 4
Expected return on pension scheme assets (442) (144) (47) (633) –
Interest on scheme liabilities 377 121 53 551 62
Settlements and curtailments 175 12 (22) 165 22
236 60 45 341 118
Actuarial (losses)/gains recorded in the statement of
recognised income and expense (776) (576) (82) (1,434) 64
The amounts included with settlements and curtailments include £208 million of augmentation costs arising from major restructuring
programmes (see Note 29 ‘Other provisions’).
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
2007 UK USA Rest of World Group Group
£m £m £m £m £m
Amounts charged to operating profit
Current service cost 138 60 57 255 30
Past service cost – (7) 1 (6) –
Expected return on pension scheme assets (389) (141) (37) (567) –
Interest on scheme liabilities 335 107 41 483 54
Settlements and curtailments 24 5 (6) 23 6
108 24 56 188 90
Actuarial gains recorded in the statement of
recognised income and expense 523 66 43 632 39
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
2006 UK USA Rest of World Group Group
£m £m £m £m £m
Amounts charged to operating profit
Current service cost 135 66 56 257 48
Past service cost 33 – (2) 31 –
Expected return on pension scheme assets (333) (142) (30) (505) –
Interest on scheme liabilities 307 113 42 462 57
Settlements and curtailments 17 (2) (4) 11 (14)
159 35 62 256 91
Actuarial gains recorded in the statement of
recognised income and expense 111 169 10 290 139
The total actuarial losses recorded in the statement of recognised income and expense since 1st January 2003 amount to £1,388 million.GSK Annual Report 2008 137
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
28 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
The fair values of the assets and liabilities of the UK and US defined benefit pension schemes, together with aggregated data for other defined
benefit pension schemes in the Group are as follows:
UK USA Rest of World Group
Average
Expected rate Fair Expected rate Fair expected rate Fair Fair
At 31st December 2008
of return value of return value of return value value
% £m % £m % £m £m
Equities 7.75 3,334 8.25 838 7.00 211 4,383
Property 6.75 331 7.25 259 6.75 22 612
Bonds 4.75 2,430 5.25 893 3.25 598 3,921
Other assets 2.75 40 1.50 26 4.25 306 372
Fair value of assets 6,135 2,016 1,137 9,288
Present value of scheme obligations (6,885) (2,738) (1,357) (10,980)
(750) (722) (220) (1,692)
Unrecognised past service cost – – 1 1
Restriction on surplus – – (6) (6)
Recognised on the balance sheet (750) (722) (225) (1,697)
Included in other non-current assets – – 39 39
Included in pensions and other post-employment
benefits (750) (722) (264) (1,736)
(750) (722) (225) (1,697)
Actual return on plan assets (1,249) (470) (87) (1,806)
UK USA Rest of World Group
Average
Expected rate Fair Expected rate Fair expected rate Fair Fair
At 31st December 2007
of return value of return value of return value value
% £m % £m % £m £m
Equities 8.00 4,578 8.50 1,446 7.50 223 6,247
Property 7.00 338 7.50 213 7.00 20 571
Bonds 5.00 2,322 5.00 335 4.00 430 3,087
Other assets 6.00 55 4.75 10 4.25 212 277
Fair value of assets 7,293 2,004 885 10,182
Present value of scheme obligations (7,371) (1,945) (1,022) (10,338)
(78) 59 (137) (156)
Included in other non-current assets 10 215 30 255
Included in pensions and other post-employment
benefits (88) (156) (167) (411)
(78) 59 (137) (156)
Actual return on plan assets 557 187 19 763138 GSK Annual Report 2008
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
28 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
UK USA Rest of World Group
Average
Expected rate Fair Expected rate Fair expected rate Fair Fair
At 31st December 2006
of return value of return value of return value value
% £m % £m % £m £m
Equities 8.00 4,218 8.50 1,412 7.25 205 5,835
Property 7.00 210 7.50 169 6.75 11 390
Bonds 4.50 2,026 5.50 324 3.50 351 2,701
Other assets 5.00 100 5.00 48 3.75 174 322
Fair value of assets 6,554 1,953 741 9,248
Present value of scheme obligations (7,444) (1,949) (952) (10,345)
(890) 4 (211) (1,097)
Included in other non-current assets – 160 19 179
Included in pensions and other post-employment
benefits (890) (156) (230) (1,276)
(890) 4 (211) (1,097)
Actual return on plan assets 560 310 56 926GSK Annual Report 2008 139
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
28 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
Movements in defined benefit obligations UK USA Rest of World Group Group
£m £m £m £m £m
Obligations at 1st January 2006 (7,054) (2,150) (922) (10,126) (1,308)
Exchange adjustments – 267 30 297 151
Service cost (168) (66) (54) (288) (48)
Interest cost (307) (113) (42) (462) (57)
Settlements and curtailments (17) 2 12 (3) 14
Actuarial (losses)/gains (116) 1 (16) (131) 139
Scheme participants’ contributions (11) – (3) (14) (8)
Benefits paid 229 110 43 382 54
Obligations at 31st December 2006 (7,444) (1,949) (952) (10,345) (1,063)
Exchange adjustments – 34 (80) (46) 9
Service cost (138) (53) (58) (249) (30)
Interest cost (335) (107) (41) (483) (54)
Settlements and curtailments (24) (5) 4 (25) (6)
Actuarial gains 355 20 61 436 39
Scheme participants’ contributions (38) – (5) (43) –
Benefits paid 253 115 49 417 44
Transfers to other provisions – – – – 89
Recognised on the balance sheet at 31st December 2007 (7,371) (1,945) (1,022) (10,338) (972)
Unrecognised past service cost – – – – (47)
Obligations at 31st December 2007 (7,371) (1,945) (1,022) (10,338) (1,019)
Exchange adjustments – (753) (353) (1,106) (351)
Service cost (126) (71) (61) (258) (28)
Interest cost (377) (121) (53) (551) (62)
Settlements and curtailments (175) (12) 19 (168) (16)
Actuarial gains 915 38 58 1,011 64
Scheme participants’ contributions (33) – (5) (38) (9)
Benefits paid 282 126 60 468 53
Transfers – – – – 14
Obligations at 31st December 2008 (6,885) (2,738) (1,357) (10,980) (1,354)
Unrecognised past service cost – – 1 1 51
Recognised on the balance sheet at 31st December 2008 (6,885) (2,738) (1,356) (10,979) (1,303)
The UK defined benefit schemes include defined contribution sections with obligations totalling £553 million at 31st December 2008
(2007 – £693 million, 2006 – £609 million).
The liability for the US post-retirement healthcare scheme has been assessed using the same assumptions as for the US pension
scheme, together with the assumption for future medical inflation of 9.0% (2007 – 8.5%), reducing by 0.5% per year to 5% in 2017
and thereafter. During 2007, the US post-retirement healthcare scheme was amended. The main change was an increase in the cap
on company costs. At 31st December 2008 the US plan obligation was £1,223 million (2007 – £879 million; 2006 – £927 million).
However, in accordance with IAS 19 the unvested part of a benefit improvement is not recognised immediately on the balance sheet
but is recognised gradually through the income statement. At 31st December 2008, the unrecognised amount of £51 million primarily
relates to the effect of this change in the US post-retirement scheme. At 31st December 2007, the past service cost not recognised from
this scheme amounted to £47 million.140 GSK Annual Report 2008
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
28 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
The defined benefit pension obligation is analysed as follows:
2008 2007 2006
£m £m £m
Funded (10,662) (10,079) (10,099)
Unfunded (318) (259) (246)
(10,980) (10,338) (10,345)
Post-retirement benefits are unfunded.
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
Movements in fair values of assets UK USA Rest of World Group Group
£m £m £m £m £m
Assets at 1st January 2006 5,744 1,976 657 8,377 –
Exchange adjustments – (255) (30) (285) –
Expected return on assets 333 142 30 505 –
Settlements and curtailments – – (8) (8) –
Actuarial gains 227 168 26 421 –
Employer contributions 468 32 106 606 46
Scheme participants’ contributions 11 – 3 14 8
Benefits paid (229) (110) (43) (382) (54)
Assets at 31st December 2006 6,554 1,953 741 9,248 –
Exchange adjustments – (29) 68 39 –
Expected return on assets 389 141 37 567 –
Settlements and curtailments – – 2 2 –
Actuarial gains 168 46 (18) 196 –
Employer contributions 397 8 99 504 41
Scheme participants’ contributions 38 – 5 43 3
Benefits paid (253) (115) (49) (417) (44)
Assets at 31st December 2007 7,293 2,004 885 10,182 –
Exchange adjustments – 598 298 896 –
Expected return on assets 442 144 47 633 –
Settlements and curtailments – – 3 3 –
Actuarial losses (1,691) (614) (134) (2,439) –
Employer contributions 340 10 93 443 44
Scheme participants’ contributions 33 – 5 38 9
Benefits paid (282) (126) (60) (468) (53)
Assets at 31st December 2008 6,135 2,016 1,137 9,288 –
The UK defined benefit schemes include defined contribution sections with account balances totalling £553 million at 31st December
2008 (2007 – £693 million, 2006 – £609 million).
During 2008, the Group made special funding contributions to the UK pension schemes totalling £200 million (2007 – £285 million to
the UK pension schemes) of which £166 million related to a prepayment of any contributions that would be due in 2009. In 2006, GSK
formalised an agreement with the trustees of the UK defined benefit pension schemes to make additional contributions each year in
addition to the normal contributions, over a four-year period ending 31st December 2009 in order to eliminate the then pension deficits
in the funded schemes on an IAS 19 basis. GSK has also committed to eliminate any future deficits that arise over a rolling five-year
period. This agreement will be reviewed during 2009.
Employer contributions for 2009, including special funding contributions, are estimated to be approximately £900 million in respect of
defined benefit pension schemes and £55 million in respect of post-retirement benefits.GSK Annual Report 2008 141
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
28 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
History of experience gains and losses UK USA Rest of World Group Group
£m £m £m £m £m
2008
Experience losses of scheme assets (£m) (1,691 ) (614) (134) (2,439)
Percentage of scheme assets at 31st December 2008 28% 30% 12% 26%
Experience (losses)/gains of scheme liabilities (£m) (148) 2 1 (145) (14)
Percentage of scheme obligations at 31st December 2008 2% – – 1% 1%
Fair value of assets 6,135 2,016 1,137 9,288 –
Present value of scheme obligations (6,885) (2,738) (1,357) (10,980) (1,354)
Deficits in the schemes (750) (722) (220) (1,692) (1,354)
2007
Experience gains/(losses) of scheme assets (£m) 168 46 (18) 196
Percentage of scheme assets at 31st December 2007 2% 2% 2% 2%
Experience gains/(losses) of scheme liabilities (£m) 33 (30) 6 9 –
Percentage of scheme obligations at 31st December 2007 – 2% 1% – –
Fair value of assets 7,293 2,004 885 10,182 –
Present value of scheme obligations (7,371) (1,945) (1,022) (10,338) (1,019)
(Deficits)/surpluses in the schemes (78) 59 (137) (156) (1,019)
2006
Experience gains of scheme assets (£m) 227 168 26 421
Percentage of scheme assets at 31st December 2006 3% 9% 4% 5%
Experience (losses)/gains of scheme liabilities (£m) (37) (16) (42) (95) 17
Percentage of scheme obligations at 31st December 2006 – 1% 4% 1% 2%
Fair value of assets 6,554 1,953 741 9,248 –
Present value of scheme obligations (7,444) (1,949) (952) (10,345) (1,063)
(Deficits)/surpluses in the schemes (890) 4 (211) (1,097) (1,063)
2005
Experience gains of scheme assets (£m) 647 3 35 685
Percentage of scheme assets at 31st December 2005 11% – 5% 8%
Experience losses of scheme liabilities (£m) (94) (10) (35) (139) (4)
Percentage of scheme obligations at 31st December 2005 1% – 4% 1% –
Fair value of assets 5,744 1,976 657 8,377 –
Present value of scheme obligations (7,054) (2,150) (922) (10,126) (1,308)
Deficits in the schemes (1,310) (174) (265) (1,749) (1,308)
2004
Experience gains of scheme assets (£m) 196 86 23 305
Percentage of scheme assets at 31st December 2004 4% 5% 4% 5%
Experience (losses)/gains of scheme liabilities (£m) (25) (5) (18) (48) 47
Percentage of scheme obligations at 31st December 2004 – – 2% 1% 5%
Fair value of assets 4,561 1,638 547 6,746 –
Present value of scheme obligations (5,735) (1,750) (761) (8,246) (1,005)
Deficits in the schemes (1,174) (112) (214) (1,500) (1,005)142 GSK Annual Report 2008
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
28 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
Sensitivity analysis
Effect of changes in assumptions used on the annual defined benefit pension and post-retirement costs or the benefit obligations:
£m
A 0.25% decrease in discount rate would have the following approximate effect:
Increase in annual pension cost 4
Increase in annual post-retirement benefits cost 1
Increase in pension obligation 349
Increase in post-retirement benefits obligation 44
A one year increase in life expectancy would have the following approximate effect:
Increase in annual pension cost 18
Increase in annual post-retirement benefits cost 4
Increase in pension obligation 232
Increase in post-retirement benefits obligation 51
A 0.25% decrease in expected rates of returns on assets would have the following approximate effect:
Increase in annual pension cost 22
A 1% increase in the rate of future healthcare inflation would have the following approximate effect:
Increase in annual post-retirement benefits cost 5
Increase in post-retirement benefits obligation 43
A 0.25% increase in inflation would have the following approximate effect:
Increase in annual pension cost 22
Increase in pension obligation 265
29 Other provisions
Integration
Legal Major Employee and
and other restructuring related manufacturing Other
disputes programmes provisions re-organisation provisions Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1st January 2008 1,152 246 234 116 179 1,927
Exchange adjustments 424 91 48 13 42 618
Charge for the year 719 740 55 9 2 1,525
Reversed unused (149) (7) (16) (14) (30) (216)
Unwinding of discount 8 5 – – 3 16
Utilised (251) (215) (67) (34) (14) (581)
Transfer to pensions obligations – (208) – – – (208)
Reclassifications and other movements – – 14 – 4 18
At 31st December 2008 1,903 652 268 90 186 3,099
To be settled within one year 695 606 68 54 31 1,454
To be settled after one year 1,208 46 200 36 155 1,645
At 31st December 2008 1,903 652 268 90 186 3,099GSK Annual Report 2008 143
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
29 Other provisions continued Provisions for staff severance payments are made when
management has made a formal decision to eliminate certain
Legal and other disputes
positions and this has been communicated to the groups of
GSK is involved in a number of legal and other disputes, including
employees affected. No provision is made for staff severance
notification of possible claims, as set out in Note 44 ‘Legal
payments that are made immediately.
proceedings’. Provisions for legal and other disputes include
amounts relating to US anti-trust, product liability, contract Approximately 40% of the costs were incurred by 31st December
terminations, self-insurance, environmental clean-up and property 2008, and approximately 35% are expected to be incurred in
rental. The company’s Directors, having taken legal and other 2009, 20% in 2010 and the balance mostly in 2011. In total,
specialist advice, have established provisions after taking into approximately 75% of these costs are expected to be cash
account insurance and other agreements and having regard expenditures and 25% are expected to be accounting write-
to the relevant facts and circumstances of each matter and in downs. Uncertainties exist over the exact amount and timing
accordance with accounting requirements. of cash outflows, as a result of potential future exchange
rate fluctuations and as many elements of the restructuring
The charge for the year included a charge of £278 million
programme are subject to employee consultation procedures,
announced in January 2009 related to the US investigation into
making it difficult to predict with precision when these
GSK’s marketing and promotional practices which originated in
procedures will be completed. However, the majority of the
Colorado. The discount on these provisions decreased by £61 million
remaining cash payments are expected to be made in 2009
in 2008 (2007 - £10 million decrease) and was calculated using
and 2010.
risk-adjusted projected cash flows and risk-free rates of return. The
movement in 2008 includes a decrease of £64 million arising from a In addition, costs of £34 million were incurred during the year
change in the discount rate in the year. A number of products have under the restructuring programme related to the integration of
a history of claims made and settlements which makes it possible the Reliant Pharmaceuticals, Inc. business in the USA, following
to use an IBNR (incurred but not reported) actuarial technique its acquisition in December 2007.
to determine a reasonable estimate of the Group’s exposure for
Pension augmentations arising from staff redundancies of
unasserted claims in relation to those products. Apart from the
£208 million have been charged during the year and then
IBNR provision, no provisions have been made for unasserted
transferred to the pension obligations provision as shown in
claims. The ultimate liability for such matters may vary from the
Note 28 ‘Pensions and other post-employment benefits’. Asset
amounts provided and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation
write-downs have been recognised as impairments of property,
proceedings, investigations and possible settlement negotiations.
plant and equipment in Note 17 ‘Property, plant and equipment’.
It is in the nature of the Group’s business that a number of these
Employee related provisions
matters, including those provided using the IBNR actuarial technique,
Employee related provisions includes the exchange offer incentive
may be the subject of negotiation and litigation over several years.
programme which operated at the time of the merger to encourage
The largest individual amounts provided are expected to be settled
staff to convert Glaxo Wellcome or SmithKline Beecham share
within three years.
options into GlaxoSmithKline share options. The incentive is paid
At 31st December 2008, it is expected that £112 million either when employees exercise the relevant options, or when the
(2007 – £89 million) of the provision made for legal and other options lapse, up to 2010. There is no impact of discounting on
disputes will be reimbursed by third party insurers. This amount is this provision in 2008 (2007 increased by £7 million), which was
included within current and non-current assets. For a discussion calculated using risk-free rates of return. The Group also provides
of legal issues, refer to Note 44 ‘Legal proceedings’. certain medical benefits to disabled employees and their spouses in
the USA. At 31st December 2008, the provision for these benefits
Major restructuring programmes
amounted to £115 million. Other employee benefits reflect a variety
In October 2007 GSK announced a significant new Operational
of provisions for severance costs, jubilee awards and other long-
Excellence programme to improve the effectiveness and
service benefits.
productivity of its operations (see Note 7 ‘Major restructuring
programmes’). A significant expansion of the Operational Integration and manufacturing re-organisation
Excellence programme was approved by the Board and The Group has recognised costs in previous years in respect of
announced in February 2009. Total costs for the implementation plans for the integration of the Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline
of the expanded programme are now expected to be Beecham businesses. Implementation of the integration following
approximately £3.6 billion, to be incurred over the period from the merger is substantially complete. Costs recognised in the
2007 to 2011. remaining merger integration provision in respect of identified
severances are expected to be settled in 2009. Other smaller
cost-saving initiatives since the merger are now included within
this category.144 GSK Annual Report 2008
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
30 Other non-current liabilities
2008 2007
£m £m
Accruals and deferred income 96 68
Other payables 331 300
427 368
31 Contingent liabilities
At 31st December 2008, contingent liabilities, comprising guarantees, discounted bills and other items arising in the normal course of
business, amounted to £134 million (2007 – £92 million). At 31st December 2008, £12 million (2007 – £7 million) of financial assets
were pledged as collateral for contingent liabilities. For discussions of tax and legal issues, refer to Note 14, ‘Taxation’ and Note 44,
‘Legal proceedings’.
32 Net debt
2008 2007
Listing exchange £m £m
Current assets:
Liquid investments 391 1,153
Cash and cash equivalents 5,623 3,379
6,014 4,532
Short-term borrowings:
3.25% € European Medium Term Note 2009 London Stock Exchange (481) –
3.375% € European Medium Term Note 2008 London Stock Exchange – (736)
4.875% £ European Medium Term Note 2008 London Stock Exchange – (497)
Commercial paper – (2,064)
Bank loans and overdrafts (426) (161)
Other loans (1) (6)
Obligations under finance leases (48) (40)
(956) (3,504)
Long-term borrowings:
3.25% € European Medium Term Note 2009 London Stock Exchange – (368)
US$ Floating rate Note 2010 New York Stock Exchange (694) –
3.00% € European Medium Term Note 2012 London Stock Exchange (718) (548)
5.125% € European Medium Term Note 2012 London Stock Exchange (2,154) (1,645)
4.85% US$ US Medium Term Note 2013 New York Stock Exchange (1,728) –
4.375% US$ US Medium Term Note 2014 London Stock Exchange (1,146) (746)
5.625% € European Medium Term Note 2017 London Stock Exchange (1,193) (912)
5.65% US$ US Medium Term Note 2018 New York Stock Exchange (1,901) –
4.00% € European Medium Term Note 2025 London Stock Exchange (709) (542)
5.25% £ European Medium Term Note 2033 London Stock Exchange (979) (978)
5.375% US$ US Medium Term Note 2034 London Stock Exchange (344) (249)
6.375% US$ US Medium Term Note 2038 New York Stock Exchange (1,888) –
6.375% £ European Medium Term Note 2039 London Stock Exchange (693) –
5.25% £ European Medium Term Note 2042 London Stock Exchange (984) (984)
Loan stock (8) (9)
Bank loans (1) (1)
Other loans and private financing (3) (2)
Obligations under finance leases (88) (83)
(15,231) (7,067)
Net debt (10,173) (6,039)GSK Annual Report 2008 145
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
32 Net debt continued
Current assets
Liquid investments are classified as available-for-sale investments. At 31st December 2008, they included government bonds and
US Treasury notes. The effective interest rate on liquid investments at 31st December 2008 was approximately 5.5%
(2007 – approximately 4.9%). Liquid investment balances at 31st December 2008 earning interest at floating and fixed rates amount
to £1 million and £390 million, respectively (2007 – £868 million and £285 million).
The effective interest rate on cash and cash equivalents at 31st December 2008 was approximately 1.8% (2007 – approximately 5.0%).
Cash and cash equivalents balances at 31st December 2008 earning interest at floating and fixed rates amount to £5,520 million and
£4 million, respectively (2007 – £3,257 million and £36 million).
GSK has tightened its criteria for holding cash equivalents and liquid investments in response to the credit crisis. GSK’s policy regarding
the credit quality of cash and cash equivalents is referred to in Note 41, ‘Financial instruments and related disclosures’.
Short-term borrowings
Commercial paper comprises a US $10 billion programme, of which $nil (£nil) was in issue at 31st December 2008
(2007 – $4.1 billion (£2.1 billion)), backed up by committed facilities of 364 days duration of $3.9 billion (£2.7 billion)
(2007 – $5 billion (£2.5 billion)) renewable annually, and liquid investments, cash and cash equivalents as shown in the table above.
The weighted average interest rate on current bank loans and overdrafts at 31st December 2008 was 1.59% (2007 – 4.85%).
Long-term borrowings
At the year-end, GSK had long-term borrowings of £15.2 billion (2007 – £7.1 billion) of which £9.8 billion (2007 – £4.4 billion) falls
due in more than five years.
Long-term borrowings repayable after five years carry interest at effective rates between 3.51% and 6.38%. The repayment dates range
from 2014 to 2042. The average effective interest rate of all notes at 31st December 2008 was approximately 5.0%
(2007 – approximately 4.7%).
Secured liabilities
GSK had no loans secured by charges on non-current and current assets in the year (2007 – £nil). The Group has pledged investments
in US Treasury Notes with a par value of $198 million (2007 – $220 million) as security against irrevocable letters of credit issued on the
Group’s behalf in respect of the Group’s self-insurance activity. Provisions in respect of self-insurance are included within the provisions
for legal and other disputes discussed in Note 29, ‘Other provisions’.
2008 2007
Finance lease obligations £m £m
Rental payments due within one year 53 45
Rental payments due between one and two years 39 40
Rental payments due between two and three years 30 26
Rental payments due between three and four years 17 11
Rental payments due between four and five years 6 5
Rental payments due after five years 9 10
Total future rental payments 154 137
Future finance charges (18) (14)
Total finance lease obligations 136 123
Finance lease obligations at 31st December 2008 bearing interest at floating and fixed rates amount to £98 million and £38 million,
respectively (2007 – £94 million and £29 million).146 GSK Annual Report 2008
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
33 Share capital and share premium account
Share
Ordinary Shares of 25p each premium
Number £m £m
Share capital authorised
At 31st December 2006 10,000,000,000 2,500
At 31st December 2007 10,000,000,000 2,500
At 31st December 2008 10,000,000,000 2,500
Share capital issued and fully paid
At 1st December 2006 5,962,851,256 1,491 549
Issued under share option schemes 28,750,592 7 309
At 31st December 2006 5,991,601,848 1,498 858
Issued under share option schemes 37,307,678 9 408
Share capital purchased and cancelled (16,322,500) (4) –
At 31st December 2007 6,012,587,026 1,503 1,266
Issued under share option schemes 5,640,119 2 60
Share capital purchased and cancelled (356,910,908) (90) –
At 31st December 2008 5,661,316,237 1,415 1,326
31st December 31st December
2008 2007
Number (‘000) of shares issuable under outstanding options (Note 42) 220,459 218,182
Number (‘000) of unissued shares not under option 4,118,225 3,769,231
At 31st December 2008, of the issued share capital, 128,969,260 shares were held in the ESOP Trust, 474,194,158 shares were held as
Treasury shares and 5,058,152,819 shares were in free issue. All issued shares are fully paid. The nominal, carrying and market values
of the shares held in the ESOP Trust are disclosed in Note 42, ‘Employee share schemes’. Share capital purchased and cancelled in 2008
includes the cancellation of 30 million of previously acquired Treasury shares.
A total of £15.3 billion has been spent by the company between 1st January 2001 and 31st December 2008 on buying its own shares for
cancellation or to be held as Treasury shares.
£3.7 billion was spent on repurchases in 2008 and a total of £6.2 billion has been repurchased under the current £12 billion share buy-
back programme. There have been no purchases since 31st December 2008 under this programme and GSK does not expect to make
significant share repurchases in 2009.
The table below sets out the monthly purchases under the share buy-back programme:
Average share price excluding
Number of shares commission and stamp duty
Month 000 £
January 2008 – –
February 2008 41,199 11.16
March 2008 49,745 10.49
April 2008 42,180 11.02
May 2008 40,685 11.30
June 2008 50,356 11.02
July 2008 48,024 11.86
August 2008 7,337 12.55
September 2008 16,150 12.31
October 2008 2,195 11.60
November 2008 17,418 11.61
December 2008 11,622 11.84
Total 326,911 11.28
All of the shares purchased in 2008 have been cancelled. For details of substantial shareholdings refer to ‘Substantial shareholdings’ on page 187.GSK Annual Report 2008 147
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
34 Movements in equity
Shareholders’ equity
Share Share Retained Other Minority Total
Total
capital premium earnings reserves interests equity
£m
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1st January 2006 1,491 549 5,579 (308) 7,311 259 7,570
Recognised income and expense for the year – – 5,248 59 5,307 88 5,395
Changes in minority shareholdings – – – – – 2 2
Distributions to minority shareholders – – – – – (87) (87)
Dividends to shareholders – – (2,598) – (2,598) – (2,598)
Ordinary Shares issued 7 309 – – 316 – 316
Ordinary Shares purchased and held as Treasury shares – – (1,348) – (1,348) – (1,348)
Ordinary Shares transferred by ESOP Trusts – – – 151 151 – 151
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts – – (163) 163 – – –
Share-based incentive plans – – 226 – 226 – 226
Tax on share based incentive plans – – 21 – 21 – 21
At 31st December 2006 1,498 858 6,965 65 9,386 262 9,648
Recognised income and expense for the year – – 6,104 (92) 6,012 122 6,134
Distributions to minority shareholders – – – – – (77) (77)
Dividends to shareholders – – (2,793) – (2,793) – (2,793)
Ordinary Shares issued 9 408 – – 417 – 417
Ordinary Shares purchased and cancelled (4) – (213) 4 (213) – (213)
Ordinary Shares purchased and held as Treasury shares – – (3,537) – (3,537) – (3,537)
Ordinary Shares acquired by ESOP Trusts – – – (26) (26) – (26)
Ordinary Shares transferred by ESOP Trusts – – – 116 116 – 116
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts – – (292) 292 – – –
Share-based incentive plans – – 237 – 237 – 237
Tax on share-based incentive plans – – 4 – 4 – 4
At 31st December 2007 1,503 1,266 6,475 359 9,603 307 9,910
Recognised income and expense for the year – – 4,723 (53) 4,670 159 4,829
Distributions to minority shareholders – – – – – (79) (79)
Dividends to shareholders – – (2,929) – (2,929) – (2,929)
Ordinary Shares issued 2 60 – – 62 – 62
Ordinary Shares purchased and cancelled (90) – (3,706) 90 (3,706) – (3,706)
Ordinary Shares acquired by ESOP Trusts – – – (19) (19) – (19)
Ordinary Shares transferred by ESOP Trusts – – – 10 10 – 10
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts – – (181) 181 – – –
Share-based incentive plans – – 241 – 241 – 241
Tax on share-based incentive plans – – (1) – (1) – (1)
At 31st December 2008 1,415 1,326 4,622 568 7,931 387 8,318148 GSK Annual Report 2008
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
34 Movements in equity continued
Retained earnings and other reserves amounted to £5,190 million at 31st December 2008 (2007 – £6,834 million, 2006 – £7,030 million) of
which £391 million (2007 – £218 million, 2006 – £185 million) relates to joint ventures and associated undertakings. The cumulative translation
exchange in equity is shown below in the following table:
Net translation exchange included in:
Total
Fair value Retained Minority translation
reserve earnings interest exchange
£m £m £m £m
At 1st January 2006 14 272 (69) 217
Exchange movements on overseas net assets (5) (331) (23) (359)
At 31st December 2006 9 (59) (92) (142)
Exchange movements on overseas net assets – 394 17 411
At 31st December 2007 9 335 (75) 269
Exchange movements on overseas net assets 1 952 64 1,017
Recycling of exchange on liquidation of overseas subsidiary – 84 – 84
At 31st December 2008 10 1,371 (11) 1,370
The analysis of other reserves is as follows:
ESOP Trust Fair value Cash flow Other
shares reserve hedge reserve reserves Total
£m £m £m £m £m
At 1st January 2006 (2,313) 76 (1) 1,930 (308)
Transferred to income and expense in the year on disposals – (19) – – (19)
Transferred to income and expense in the year on impairment – (2) – – (2)
Net fair value movement in the year – 82 (2) – 80
Ordinary Shares transferred by ESOP Trusts 151 – – – 151
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts 163 – – – 163
At 31st December 2006 (1,999) 137 (3) 1,930 65
Transferred to income and expense in the year on disposals – (34) – – (34)
Transferred to income and expense in the year on impairment – (12) – – (12)
Net fair value movement in the year – (42) (4) – (46)
Ordinary Shares purchased and cancelled – – – 4 4
Ordinary Shares acquired by ESOP Trusts (26) – – – (26)
Ordinary Shares transferred by ESOP Trusts 116 – – – 116
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts 292 – – – 292
At 31st December 2007 (1,617) 49 (7) 1,934 359
Transferred to income and expense in the year on disposals – (32) – – (32)
Transferred to income and expense in the year on impairment – (2) – – (2)
Net fair value movement in the year – (23) 4 – (19)
Ordinary Shares purchased and cancelled – – – 90 90
Ordinary Shares acquired by ESOP Trusts (19) – – – (19)
Ordinary Shares transferred by ESOP Trusts 10 – – – 10
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts 181 – – – 181
At 31st December 2008 (1,445) (8) (3) 2,024 568
Other reserves consist of various non-distributable merger and pre-merger reserves amounting to £1,849 million at 31st December 2008
(2007 – £1,849 million; 2006 – £1,849 million). Other reserves also include the capital redemption reserve created as a result of the share
buy-back programme amounting to £175 million at 31st December 2008 (2007 – £85 million, 2006 – £81 million).GSK Annual Report 2008 149
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
35 Related party transactions
GSK held an 18.7% interest in Quest Diagnostics Inc. at 31st December 2008 (2007 – 18.9%). The Group and Quest Diagnostics
are parties to a long-term contractual relationship under which Quest Diagnostics is the primary provider of clinical laboratory testing
to support the Group’s clinical trials testing requirements worldwide. During 2008, Quest Diagnostics provided services of £42 million
(2007 – £38 million) to the Group. At 31st December 2008, the balance payable by GSK to Quest Diagnostics was £nil (2007 –
£5 million).
In 2008, both the Group and Shionogi & Co. Ltd. entered into transactions with their 50/50 US joint venture company in support of the research
and development activities conducted by that joint venture company. During 2008, GSK provided services to the joint venture of £7 million
(2007 – £2 million). At 31st December 2008, the balance due to GSK from the joint venture was £5 million (2007 – £2 million).
Dr Shapiro, a former Non-Executive Director of GlaxoSmithKline plc, received fees of $85,000 (2007 – $85,000) of which $30,000
(2007 – $30,000) was in the form of ADS, from a subsidiary of the company, for her membership of the Group’s Scientific Advisory Board.
These fees are included within ‘Annual remuneration’ in the Remuneration Report on page 90.
The aggregate compensation of the Directors, CET and Company Secretary is given in Note 10, ‘Employee Costs’.
36 Adjustments reconciling profit after tax to operating cash flows
2008 2007 2006
£m £m £m
Profit after tax 4,712 5,310 5,498
Tax on profits 1,947 2,142 2,301
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures (48) (50) (56)
Finance income/costs 530 191 65
Depreciation 920 796 732
Amortisation of intangible assets 311 226 226
Impairment and assets written off 436 206 208
Profit on sale of intangible assets (170) (5) (158)
Profit on sale of equity investments (33) (32) (18)
Changes in working capital:
Increase in inventories (411) (457) (298)
Decrease/(increase) in trade receivables 519 (77) (255)
Decrease/(increase) in other receivables 22 (2) (274)
(Decrease)/increase in trade payables (39) 9 82
(Decrease)/increase in other payables (162) (196) 272
Increase/(decrease) in pension and other provisions 548 (123) (270)
Share-based incentive plans 241 237 226
Other (268) (95) (78)
Cash generated from operations 9,055 8,080 8,203
As a result of two reclassifications, the cash generated from operations of £9,055 million is £106 million lower than that given in GSK’s
unaudited Preliminary Results Announcement issued on 5th February 2009. In addition the decrease in liquid investments for the year has
been reclassified from financing activities to investing activities. Comparative amounts have also been reclassified.150 GSK Annual Report 2008
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
37 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt
2008 2007 2006
£m £m £m
Net debt at beginning of year (6,039) (2,450) (1,237)
Increase/(decrease) in cash and bank overdrafts 1,148 1,411 (1,956)
Cash (inflow)/outflow from liquid investments (905) 39 55
Net increase in long-term loans (5,523) (3,276) –
Net repayment of/(increase in) short-term loans 3,059 (1,632) 739
Net repayment of obligations under finance leases 48 39 34
Exchange adjustments (1,918) (88) (9)
Other non-cash movements (43) (82) (76)
Movement in net debt (4,134) (3,589) (1,213)
Net debt at end of year (10,173) (6,039) (2,450)
Analysis of changes in net debt At 31.12.07 Exchange Other Acquisitions Cash flow At 31.12.08
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Liquid investments 1,153 143 – – (905) 391
Cash and cash equivalents 3,379 1,227 – 52 965 5,623
Overdrafts (158) (124) – – 131 (151)
3,221 1,103 – 52 1,096 5,472
Debt due within one year:
Commercial paper (2,064) – – – 2,064 –
Eurobonds and Medium-Term Notes (1,233) (175) (337) – 1,264 (481)
Other (49) (10) 4 – (269) (324)
(3,346) (185) (333) – 3,059 (805)
Debt due after one year:
Eurobonds, Medium-Term Notes and
private financing (6,972) (2,963) 327 – (5,523) (15,131)
Other (95) (16) (37) – 48 (100)
(7,067) (2,979) 290 – (5,475) (15,231)
Net debt (6,039) (1,918) (43) 52 (2,225) (10,173)
For further information on significant changes in net debt see Note 32 ‘Net debt’.
38 Acquisitions and disposals
Details of the acquisition and disposal of subsidiary and associated undertakings, joint ventures and other businesses are given below:
2008
Acquisitions
Sirtris Pharmaceuticals Inc.
On 5th June 2008, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Sirtris Pharmaceuticals Inc., a biopharmaceutical company
based in Massachusetts, USA for a cash consideration of £376 million. The company is focused on discovering and developing proprietary,
orally available, small molecule drugs with the potential to treat diseases associated with ageing, including metabolic diseases such as Type
2 diabetes. Sirtris’ drug candidates are designed to mimic certain beneficial health effects of calorie restriction by activation of sirtuins,
a recently discovered class of enzymes that Sirtris believes control the ageing process. This transaction has been accounted for by the
purchase method of accounting. The goodwill arising on the acquisition reflects the potential for enabling GSK to enhance its metabolic,
neurology, and immuno-inflammation research efforts by establishing a world-leading presence in the sirtuin field, aided by the existence
in the company of a highly experienced development team that encompasses all aspects of sirtuin biology. Sirtris Pharmaceuticals Inc. had
a turnover of £nil and a loss after tax of £25 million for the year, of which £nil of turnover and £14 million of loss after tax related to the
period since acquisition and are included in the Group accounts.GSK Annual Report 2008 151
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
38 Acquisitions and disposals continued
Book Fair value Fair
value adjustment value
£m £m £m
Net assets acquired
Intangible assets – 106 106
Property, plant and equipment 2 – 2
Other assets including cash and cash equivalents 86 – 86
Deferred tax provision – (21) (21)
Other liabilities (39) – (39)
49 85 134
Goodwill – 242 242
Total consideration 49 327 376
Bristol Myers Squibb (Egypt)
On 14th October 2008, the Group acquired the Egyptian mature products business of Bristol Myers Squibb (BMS) for a cash consideration
of £140 million of this amount £10 million is deferred with payment being made when alternative supply arrangements are established.
The Group acquired 20 branded products that occupy leading market positions in four therapeutic disease areas in Egypt, including
Duricef (antibiotic); Capozide and Capoten (ACE inhibitors); Theragran-H (iron supplement) and Kenacomb (topical steroid). Total sales of
this combined mature products pharmaceuticals business in 2007 were $48.5 million. The Group will also take ownership of BMS’s high
quality manufacturing facility in Giza (Greater Cairo) that will continue to supply the acquired products. The Group will have the ability
to export generic versions of the acquired products to markets outside of Egypt, thereby creating a further opportunity to drive sales
growth in the Middle East and North Africa region and this fact is reflected in the goodwill arising on the acquisition. The business had a
turnover of £25 million and a profit after tax of £4 million for the year, of which £4 million of turnover and £0.2 million of profit after tax
are related to the period since acquisition and are included in the Group accounts. The fair values set out below are based on provisional
valuations and may be subject to change in the future.
Book Fair value Fair
value adjustment value
£m £m £m
Net assets acquired
Intangible assets – 65 65
Property, plant and equipment 9 9 18
Inventory 5 – 5
14 74 88
Goodwill – 52 52
Total consideration 14 126 140
If Sirtris and BMS (Egypt) had been acquired at the beginning of the year, combined Group turnover for the year would have been
£24,373 million and combined Group profit for the year would have been £4,705 million.
Shionogi-
Euclid SR GlaxoSmithKline
Cash flows Sirtris BMS (Egypt) Partners LP Holdings Ltd Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Cash consideration 376 130 2 6 1 515
Cash and cash equivalents acquired (52) – – – – (52)
Net cash payment on acquisitions 324 130 2 6 1 463
Euclid SR Partners, LP
During 2008, an additional £2 million was invested in Euclid SR Partners, LP, an associate in which the Group has a 38.6% share.
Shionogi-GlaxoSmithKline Holdings Ltd
During 2008, an additional £6 million was invested in Shionogi-GlaxoSmithKline Holdings Ltd, a joint venture in which the Group has a
50% share.152 GSK Annual Report 2008
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
38 Acquisitions and disposals continued
2007
Acquisitions
Reliant Pharmaceuticals Inc.
On 18th December 2007, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Reliant Pharmaceuticals Inc., a pharmaceutical
company based in the USA for a cash consideration of £814 million. The company specialises in the development and marketing of
speciality medicines to combat heart disease which includes the US rights to Lovaza, a treatment for adult patients with very high levels
of triglycerides. This transaction has been accounted for by the purchase method of accounting. The goodwill arising on the acquisition
reflects the potential for product growth throughout the USA and Puerto Rico and the expected synergies for the Group. Reliant
Pharmaceuticals Inc. had a turnover of £276 million and a profit after tax of £8 million for the year, of which £8 million of turnover and
£1 million of profit after tax related to the period since acquisition and are included in the Group accounts.
Book Fair value Fair
value adjustment value
£m £m £m
Net assets acquired
Intangible assets 13 600 613
Property, plant and equipment 2 4 6
Other assets including cash and cash equivalents 80 16 96
Deferred tax provision – (175) (175)
Other liabilities (75) (1) (76)
20 444 464
Goodwill – 350 350
Total consideration 20 794 814
Domantis Limited
On 5th January 2007, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Domantis Limited, a drug discovery company based in the
UK for a cash consideration of £234 million. The company is developing the next generation of antibody therapies. This transaction has
been accounted for by the purchase method of accounting. The goodwill arising on the acquisition reflects the potential for combining
the world-leading technology of Domantis with the development programme already in place within GSK to put the Group at the
forefront of biotechnology. Domantis Limited had a turnover of £nil and a loss after tax of £10 million for the year, of which £nil of
turnover and £9 million of loss after tax related to the period since acquisition and are included in the Group accounts.
Book Fair value Fair
value adjustment value
£m £m £m
Net assets acquired
Intangible assets – 51 51
Property, plant and equipment 1 – 1
Other assets including cash and cash equivalents 19 – 19
Deferred tax provision – (14) (14)
Other liabilities (4) – (4)
16 37 53
Goodwill – 181 181
Total consideration 16 218 234GSK Annual Report 2008 153
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
38 Acquisitions and disposals continued
Praecis Pharmaceuticals Inc.
On 16th February 2007, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Praecis Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a biopharmaceutical
company based in the USA, for a cash consideration of £39 million. The company has developed a more efficient method of identifying
drug leads targeting human disease using proprietary technology. This transaction has been accounted for by the purchase method of
accounting. Praecis Pharmaceuticals Inc. had a turnover of £nil and a loss after tax of £11 million for the year, of which £nil of turnover
and £9 million of loss after tax related to the period since acquisition and are included in the Group accounts.
Book Fair value Fair
value adjustment value
£m £m £m
Net assets acquired
Intangible assets – 7 7
Property, plant and equipment 1 – 1
Other assets including cash and cash equivalents 25 – 25
Deferred tax asset – 10 10
Other liabilities (6) – (6)
20 17 37
Goodwill – 2 2
Total consideration 20 19 39
Reliant Domantis Praecis Other Total
Cash flows £m £m £m £m £m
Cash consideration 814 234 39 1 1,088
Cash and cash equivalents acquired (20) (16) (24) – (60)
Net cash payment on acquisitions 794 218 15 1 1,028
If Reliant, Domantis and Praecis had been acquired at the beginning of the year, combined Group turnover for the year would have been
£22,984 million and combined Group profit for the year would have been £5,314 million.
2006
Acquisitions
CNS, Inc.
On 19th December 2006, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of CNS, Inc., a consumer healthcare company based in
the USA for a cash consideration of £280 million. The company markets Breathe Right nasal dilator strips and FiberChoice dietary fibre
supplements. These are the key intangible assets acquired and have been valued using a discounted cash flow calculation. This transaction
has been accounted for by the purchase method of accounting. The goodwill arising on the acquisition reflects the potential for
expansion of the brands into other overseas markets and the expected synergies for the Group. CNS, Inc. had a turnover of £71 million
(2005 – £60 million) and a profit of £11 million (2005 – profit £9 million) for 2006 of which £2 million of turnover and £nil of profit
related to the period since acquisition and are included in the Group accounts.
Book Fair value Fair
value adjustment value
£m £m £m
Net assets acquired
Intangible assets 4 203 207
Property, plant and equipment 1 – 1
Other assets including cash and cash equivalents 44 – 44
Deferred tax provision – (77) (77)
Other liabilities (7) – (7)
42 126 168
Goodwill – 112 112
Total consideration 42 238 280154 GSK Annual Report 2008
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
38 Acquisitions and disposals continued
Euclid SR Partners, LP
During 2006, an additional £5 million was invested in Euclid SR Partners, LP, an associate in which the Group has a 38.7% share.
Shionogi-GlaxoSmithKline Holdings Ltd
During 2006, an additional £8 million was invested in Shionogi GlaxoSmithKline Holdings Ltd, a joint venture in which the Group has a
50% share.
Pliva Research Institute Ltd.
In May 2006, the Group purchased the entire share capital of the Pliva Research Institute Ltd. for a cash consideration of £26 million, of
this amount £8 million is deferred, with payment being made when phase I clinical trials are initiated.
GlaxoSmithKline K.K.
In August 2006, a Japanese subsidiary of the Group made a cash payment of £150 million to complete the purchase of the remaining
15% of the share capital held by the minority shareholder. This payment was preceded in the year by a dividend to the minority
shareholders of £7 million representing additional consideration.
Shionogi Pliva
Euclid SR GlaxoSmithKline Research GlaxoSmith-
CNS Partners, LP Holdings, Ltd Institute Kline K.K. Other Total
Cash flows £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cash consideration 280 5 8 18 157 – 468
Cash and cash equivalents acquired (24) – – (1) – – (25)
Net cash payment on acquisitions 256 5 8 17 157 – 443
Net cash proceeds from disposals – – – – – (5) (5)
39 Commitments
2008 2007
Contractual obligations and commitments £m £m
Contracted for but not provided in the financial statements:
Intangible assets 13,048 5,730
Property, plant and equipment 489 597
Investments 56 65
Purchase commitments 145 159
Business combinations 227 –
Pensions 597 650
Other commitments 46 32
Interest on loans 11,868 5,170
Finance lease charges 18 14
26,494 12,417
The commitments related to intangible assets include milestone payments, which are dependent on successful clinical development or on
meeting specified sales targets, and which represent the maximum that would be paid if all milestones, however unlikely, are achieved.
The amounts are not risk-adjusted or discounted. As the majority of the intangible commitments are denominated in US dollars, the
significant strengthening of foreign currencies during the year has led to an increase in the commitments reported above. A number of
commitments were made in 2008 under licensing and other agreements, including arrangements with Actelion Pharmaceuticals Limited,
Archemix Corporation, Dynavax Technologies Corporation, and Mpex Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
The commitments relating to business combinations reflect agreements to acquire the issued share capital of Genelabs Technologies,
Inc., Bristol Myers Squibb Pakistan (Private) Limited and AZ Tika SNC, the latter being subject to clearance by the Swedish Competition
Authority.
In 2006, GSK formalised an agreement with the trustees of the UK pension schemes to make additional contributions in addition to the
normal contributions, over a four-year period ending 31st December 2009 in order to eliminate the then funded pension deficits on an
IAS 19 basis by that point. The table above shows this commitment, net of £166 million of additional contributions made in 2008, but
excludes the normal ongoing annual funding requirement of approximately £150 million. GSK has also committed to eliminate any future
deficits that may arise over a rolling five-year period.GSK Annual Report 2008 155
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
39 Commitments continued
The Group also has other commitments which principally relate to revenue payments to be made under licences and other alliances.
Commitments in respect of future interest payable on loans are disclosed after taking into account the effect of interest rate swaps.
2008 2007
Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases £m £m
Rental payments due within one year 140 101
Rental payments due between one and two years 109 76
Rental payments due between two and three years 76 58
Rental payments due between three and four years 54 41
Rental payments due between four and five years 22 33
Rental payments due after five years 47 51
Total commitments under non-cancellable operating leases 448 360
40 Post balance sheet events
On 23rd January 2009, GSK acquired UCB’s marketed product portfolio across certain territories in Africa, the Middle East, Asia Pacific
and Latin America, for £483 million.
On 26th February 2009, Synta Pharmaceuticals Corp. announced that, following the identification of safety concerns, it had stopped
a Phase III study on elesclomol, a compound it was developing jointly with GSK. GSK’s intangible assets include £83 million relating to
milestones paid to Synta Pharmaceuticals in relation to this compound, which are now likely to be impaired. It is not yet possible to
determine the final amount of any impairment, pending the completion of full analyses of the data.
Subsequent to the year-end, GSK has also completed business and product acquisitions with Genelabs and BMS Pakistan and
collaboration agreements with Archemix and Idenix.156 GSK Annual Report 2008
Financial statements
NNootteess ttoo tthhee fifinnaanncciiaall ssttaatteemmeennttss
continued
41 Financial instruments and related disclosures Selling margins are sufficient to cover normal operating costs
and our operations are cash generative.
GlaxoSmithKline plc reports in Sterling and pays dividends out
of Sterling profits. The role of Corporate Treasury is to manage Operating cash flow is used to fund investment in research
and monitor our external and internal funding requirements and development of new products. It is also used to make
and financial risks in support of our corporate objectives. the routine outflows of capital expenditure, tax, dividends,
Treasury activities are governed by policies and procedures repayment of maturing debt and, to the extent determined by
approved by the Board of Directors, most recently on 25th the Board, share repurchases.
September 2008.
Our policy is to borrow centrally, using a variety of capital
A Treasury Management Group (TMG) chaired by our Chief Financial market issues and borrowing facilities, to meet anticipated
Officer, meets on a monthly basis to review treasury activities. Its funding requirements.
members receive management information relating to treasury
These borrowings, together with cash generated from
activities. Our internal auditors review the Treasury internal control
operations, are on-lent and used to fund our ongoing
environment regularly.
operations and our acquisition strategy.
GSK uses a variety of financial instruments, including
The total capital for the Group has increased from £15,949
derivatives, to finance its operations and to manage market
million in 2007 to £18,491 million in 2008. This has resulted
risks from those operations. Derivatives, principally comprising
primarily from an increase in net debt partially off set by a
forward foreign currency contracts, interest rate and currency
decrease in total equity. The decrease in total equity principally
swaps, are used to swap borrowings and liquid assets into
arises from actuarial losses on defined benefit pension plans
currencies required for Group purposes and to manage
in the year and further share repurchases, partially offset by
exposure to funding risks from changes in foreign exchange
retained earnings. Net debt has primarily increased with the
rates and interest rates.
issuance of $9 billion of debt under the US shelf registration
GSK does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments statement and £700 million under the EMTN programme of
for speculative purposes and our Treasury policies specifically primarily long term debt. Part of the proceeds were used to
prohibit such activity. All transactions in financial instruments repay maturing short-term debt, resulting in an overall increase
are undertaken to manage the risks arising from underlying in the cash position at the 31st December 2008.
business activities, not for speculation. Liquidity risk
Capital management We manage our net borrowing requirements through a
We manage our capital to ensure that entities in the Group portfolio of long-term borrowings, including bonds, together
are able to operate as going concerns and to optimise return with short-term finance under the US$10 billion commercial
to shareholders through an appropriate balance of debt and paper programme.
equity. The Board reviews the Group’s dividend policy and
During the year, our committed undrawn bank facilities
funding requirements annually.
reduced from $5 billion to $3.9 billion as a consequence of the
The capital structure of the Group consists of net debt (see acquisition of ABN AMRO and the collapse of Lehman Brothers.
Note 32, ‘Net debt’) and shareholders’ equity (see Note 34, The facilities were renewed in October 2008. We consider this
‘Movements in equity’). level of committed facilities to be adequate given our current
cash holdings.
With recent changes in financial markets we now expect more
investment opportunities to arise that will allow the Group to We have a European Medium Term Note programme of
invest in support of its strategic priorities. To ensure we have £10 billion. At 31st December 2008 we had £7.9 billion of
sufficient flexibility to take advantage of these opportunities we notes in issue under this programme. We also have a US shelf
do not currently expect to make significant share repurchases registration statement. At 31st December 2008 we had $11.1
in 2009. Investment opportunities will continue to be assessed billion (£7.7 billion) of notes in issue under this programme. The
against strict financial criteria. TMG monitors the cash flow forecast on a monthly basis.
Our operations are global, primarily through subsidiary The long-term borrowings mature at dates between 2010 and
companies established in the markets in which we trade. 2042. Our long-term debt ratings have remained stable since
With significant levels of patent protection our pharmaceutical February 2008. Currently we are rated A+ stable outlook by
products compete largely on product efficacy rather than Standard and Poor’s and A1 negative outlook by Moody’s.
on price.GSK Annual Report 2008 157
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
41 Financial instruments and related disclosures GSK’s greatest concentration of credit risk is £1.9 billion
continued (2007 – £1.7 billion) invested in US Treasuries and Treasury-Repo
only money market funds which bear credit exposure to the US
Our short-term debt ratings are A-1 and P-1 with Standard
government. See page 159 for details on the Group’s total
and Poor’s and Moody’s respectively. As well as our committed
financial assets.
facilities we also had substantial cash and liquid investments,
Treasury-related credit risk
which amounted to £6 billion at 31st December 2008. We also
benefit from strong positive cash flow from operating units. In 2008, credit risk increased during the global credit crisis. A report
on relationship banks and their credit ratings is presented
Market risk
annually to the TMG for approval.
Interest rate risk management
The policy on interest rate risk management requires the The aggregate credit risk in respect of financial instruments the
minimum amount of net borrowings at fixed rates to increase Group may have with one counterparty is limited by reference
with the ratio of forecast interest payable to trading profit. to the long-term credit ratings assigned for that counterparty by
The fixed to floating ratio is reviewed monthly by the TMG. Moody’s and Standard and Poor’s. The table below sets out the
credit ratings of counterparties for liquid investments, cash and
We use an interest rate swap to redenominate one of our
cash equivalents and derivatives.
external borrowings into the interest rate coupon required by
GSK. The duration of this swap matches the duration of the
CCreredditi tR Raatitningg o of fC Coouunnteterprpaartryty
principal instrument. Interest rate derivative instruments are 2008 Aaa/AAA Aa1/AA+ Aa2/AA Aa3/AA- A1/A+ A2/A Total
accounted for as fair value or cash flow hedges of the relevant £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Bank balances &
assets or liabilities.
deposits 64 – 1,019 642 2,035 18 3,778
Foreign exchange risk management US Treasury &
Foreign currency transaction exposure arising on internal and Treasury repo
external trade flows is not hedged. The exposure of overseas only money
operating subsidiaries to transaction risk is minimised by market funds 1,852 – – – – – 1,852
matching local currency income with local currency costs. Corporate debt
For this purpose, our internal trading transactions are matched instruments 75 – – – – – 75
centrally and we manage intercompany payment terms to Government
securities 260 – 49 – – – 309
reduce risk. Exceptional foreign currency cash flows are hedged
3rd party financial
selectively under the management of Corporate Treasury.
derivatives – – 160 210 540 – 910
We manage the short-term cash surpluses or borrowing Total 2,251 – 1,228 852 2,575 18 6,924
requirements of subsidiary companies centrally using forward
contracts to hedge future repayments back into the
CCrreeddiitt RRaattiinngg ooff CCoouunntteerrppaarrttyy
originating currency.
2007 Aaa/AAAAa1/AA+ Aa2/AA Aa3/AA- A1/A+ A2/A Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
We seek to denominate borrowings in the currencies of
Bank balances &
our principal assets and cash flows. These are primarily
deposits 123 477 217 552 62 – 1,431
denominated in US dollars, Euros and Sterling. Certain
US Treasury &
borrowings are swapped into other currencies as required.
Treasury repo
only money
Borrowings denominated in, or swapped into, foreign
market funds 1,713 – – – – – 1,713
currencies that match investments in overseas Group assets
Corporate debt
are treated as a hedge against the relevant assets. Forward
instruments 64 – 245 861 – – 1,170
contracts are also used in major currencies to reduce our
Government
exposure to our investment in overseas Group assets (see ‘Net
securities 180 – 38 – – – 218
Investment Hedges’ section of this note for further details).
3rd party financial
The TMG review the ratio of borrowings to assets for major
derivatives – 43 355 17 51 – 466
currencies monthly.
Total 2,080 520 855 1,430 113 – 4,998
Credit risk
The credit ratings in the above tables are as assigned by
The Group considers its maximum credit risk to be
Moody’s Investor Services and Standard and Poor’s respectively
£13,265 million (2007 – £10,594 million) which is the total
(and their global associates). Where the opinion of the two
of the Group’s financial assets with the exception of ’Other
rating agencies differ, GSK assigns the lower rating of the two
investments’ which do not bear credit risk.
to the counterparty.158 GSK Annual Report 2008
Financial statements
NNootteess ttoo tthhee fifinnaanncciiaall ssttaatteemmeennttss
ccoonnttiinnuueedd
41 Financial instruments and related disclosures • Cash and cash equivalents – approximates to the
continued carrying amount
• Liquid investments – based on quoted market prices in the
Our centrally managed cash reserves amounted to £4.3 billion
case of marketable securities; based on principal amounts in
at 31st December 2008, all available within 3 months. The
the case of non-marketable securities because of their short
Group invests centrally managed liquid assets in bank deposits,
repricing periods
Treasury-only money market funds with a credit rating of AAA/
Aaa (Standard and Poor’s/Moody’s Investors’ Services), short • Other investments – investments traded in an active market
term corporate debt instruments with a minimum short-term determined by reference to the relevant stock exchange quoted
credit rating of A-1/P1 and bank deposits. bid price; other investments determined by reference to the
current market value of similar instruments or by reference to
Global counterparty limits are assigned to each of GSK’s
the discounted cash flows of the underlying net assets
banking and investment counterparties based on long-term
• Short-term loans and overdrafts – approximates to the
credit ratings from Moody’s and Standard and Poor’s. Corporate
carrying amount because of the short maturity of
Treasury’s usage of these limits is monitored daily by a
these instruments
Corporate Compliance Officer (CCO) independent of Corporate
Treasury. Any breach of these limits would be reported to the • Long-term loans – based on quoted market prices in the
CFO immediately. The CCO also monitors the credit rating case of the Eurobonds and other fixed rate borrowings;
of these counterparties and, when changes in ratings occur, approximates to the carrying amount in the case of floating
notifies Corporate Treasury so that the appropriate amendment rate bank loans and other loans
can be made to limits. • Forward exchange contracts – based on market data and
Wholesale and retail credit risk exchange rates at the balance sheet date
In the USA, in line with other pharmaceutical companies, the • Currency swaps – based on market data at the balance
Group sells its products through a small number of wholesalers sheet date
in addition to hospitals, pharmacies, physicians and other • Interest rate swaps – based on the net present value of
groups. Sales to the three largest wholesalers amount to discounted cash flows
approximately 84% of the Group’s US pharmaceutical sales.
• Receivables and payables – approximates to the
At 31st December 2008, the Group had trade receivables due
carrying amount
from these three wholesalers totalling £1,067 million
• Lease obligations – approximates to the carrying amount.
(2007 – £915 million). The Group is exposed to a concentration
of credit risk in respect of these wholesalers such that, if one or
Fair value of investments in GSK shares
more of them encounters financial difficulty, it could materially
At 31st December 2008, the ESOP Trusts held GSK shares with
and adversely affect the Group’s financial results.
a carrying value of £1,445 million (2007 – £1,617 million) with
The Group’s credit risk monitoring activities relating to a fair value of £1,657 million (2007 – £1,721 million) based on
these wholesalers includes review of their quarterly financial quoted market price. The shares represent purchases by the
information and Standard & Poor’s credit ratings, development ESOP Trusts to satisfy future exercises of options and awards
of GSK internal risk ratings, and establishment and periodic under employee incentive schemes. The carrying value, which
review of credit limits. However, the Group believes there is no is the lower of cost or expected proceeds, of these shares has
further credit risk provision required in excess of the normal been recognised as a deduction from other reserves. At
provision for bad and doubtful debts (see Note 24, Trade and 31st December 2008, GSK held Treasury shares at a cost
other receivables’). Outside the USA no customers account for of £6,286 million (2007 – £6,683 million) which has been
more than 5% of the trade receivables balance. deducted from retained earnings.
Fair value of financial assets and liabilities Committed facilities
The table on page 159 presents the carrying amounts and the The Group has committed facilities to back up the commercial
fair values of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities at paper programme of $3.9 billion (£2.7 billion) (2007 – $5 billion
31st December 2008 and 31st December 2007. (£2.5 billion)) of 364 days duration, renewable annually.
At 31st December 2008, undrawn committed facilities totalled
The fair values of the financial assets and liabilities are included
$3.9 billion (£2.7 billion) (2007 – $5 billion (£2.5 billion)).
at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged
in a current transaction between willing parties, other than
in a forced or liquidation sale. The following methods and
assumptions were used to estimate the fair values:GSK Annual Report 2008 159
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
41 Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
2008 2007
Carrying Fair Carrying Fair
value value value value
£m £m £m £m
Cash and cash equivalents 5,623 5,623 3,379 3,379
Available-for-sale investments:
Liquid investments:
– redeemable shares – – 736 736
– government bonds 299 299 205 205
– other 92 92 212 212
Total liquid investments 391 391 1,153 1,153
Other investments 478 478 517 517
Loans and receivables:
Trade and other receivables and Other non-current
assets in scope of IAS 39 6,288 6,288 5,586 5,586
Held-for-trading financial assets:
Derivatives designated as accounting hedges 111 111 175 175
Other derivatives 852 852 301 301
Total financial assets 13,743 13,743 11,111 11,111
Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost:
Borrowings:
– bonds in a designated hedging relationship (5,693) (5,813) (5,452) (5,433)
– other bonds (9,919) (10,214) (2,753) (2,599)
– commercial paper – – (2,064) (2,064)
– bank loans and overdrafts (427) (427) (171) (171)
– other loans and private financing (12) (12) (8) (8)
– obligations under finance leases (136) (136) (123) (123)
Total borrowings (16,187) (16,602) (10,571) (10,398)
Trade and other payables and Other non-current
liabilities in scope of IAS 39 (5,452) (5,452) (4,450) (4,450)
Held-for-trading financial liabilities:
Derivatives designated as accounting hedges (638) (638) (226) (226)
Other derivatives (116) (116) (44) (44)
Total financial liabilities (22,393) (22,808) (15,291) (15,118)
Net financial assets and financial liabilities (8,650) (9,065) (4,180) (4,007)160 GSK Annual Report 2008
Financial statements
NNootteess ttoo tthhee fifinnaanncciiaall ssttaatteemmeennttss
ccoonnttiinnuueedd
41 Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Trade and other receivables and other non-current assets in scope of IAS 39
The following table reconciles trade and other receivables and other non-current assets which fall within the scope of IAS 39 to the
relevant balance sheet amounts. Other assets include tax receivables, pension surplus balances and prepayments, which are outside the
scope of IAS 39. The financial assets are predominantly non-interest earning.
2008 2007
£m £m
Trade and other receivables (Note 24) 6,265 5,495
Other non-current assets (Note 22) 579 687
6,844 6,182
Analysed as:
Financial assets in scope of IAS 39 6,288 5,586
Other assets 556 596
6,844 6,182
The following table shows the age of such financial assets which are past due and for which no provision for bad or doubtful debts has
been raised:
2008 2007
£m £m
Past due by 1–30 days 310 288
Past due by 31–90 days 154 101
Past due by 91–180 days 115 97
Past due by 181–365 days 89 108
Past due by more than 365 days 117 214
785 808
Amounts past due by greater than 90 days total £321 million (2007 – £419 million). Of this balance £227 million (2007 – £315 million)
relates to receivables due from state hospital authorities in certain European countries. Given the profile of our customers, including large
wholesalers and government backed agencies, no further credit risk has been identified with the trade receivables not past due other than
those balances for which an allowance has been made.
Trade and other payables and other non-current liabilities in scope of IAS 39
The following table reconciles trade and other payables and other non-current liabilities which fall within the scope of IAS 39 to the
relevant balance sheet amounts. Other liabilities include payments on account and tax and social security payables, which are outside the
scope of IAS 39. The financial liabilities are predominantly non-interest bearing.
2008 2007
£m £m
Trade and other payables (Note 27) (6,075) (4,861)
Other non-current liabilities (Note 30) (427) (368)
(6,502) (5,229)
Analysed as:
Financial liabilities in scope of IAS 39 (5,452) (4,450)
Other liabilities (1,050) (779)
(6,502) (5,229)GSK Annual Report 2008 161
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
41 Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Debt interest rate repricing table
The following table sets out the exposure of the Group to interest rates on debt before and after the effect of interest rate swaps.
The maturity analysis of fixed rate debt is stated by contractual maturity and of floating rate debt by interest rate repricing dates.
For the purpose of this table, debt is defined as all classes of borrowings other than obligations under finance leases.
2008 2007
Effect of Effect of
interest interest
Debt rate swaps Total Debt rate swaps Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Floating and fixed rate debt less than one year (901) (1,146) (2,047) (3,455) (746) (4,201)
Between one and two years (703) – (703) (369) – (369)
Between two and three years – – – (1) – (1)
Between three and four years (2,872) – (2,872) (1) – (1)
Between four and five years (1,728) – (1,728) (2,194) – (2,194)
Between five and ten years (4,240) 1,146 (3,094) (4,409) 746 (3,663)
Greater than ten years (5,597) – (5,597) – – –
Total (16,041) – (16,041) (10,429) – (10,429)
Original issuance profile:
Fixed rate interest (14,922) 1,146 (13,776) (8,204) 1,979 (6,225)
Floating rate interest (1,119) (1,146) (2,265) (2,225) (1,979) (4,204)
Total interest bearing (16,041) – (16,041) (10,429) – (10,429)
Non-interest bearing (10) – (10) (19) – (19)
(16,051) – (16,051) (10,448) – (10,448)
Sensitivity analysis
The sensitivity analysis has been prepared on the assumption that the amount of net debt, the ratio of fixed to floating interest rates of
the debt and derivatives portfolio and the proportion of financial instruments in foreign currencies are all constant and on the basis of the
hedge designations in place at 31st December.
Financial instruments affected by market risk include borrowings, deposits and derivative financial instruments. The following analyses are
intended to illustrate the sensitivity of such financial instruments to changes in relevant foreign exchange and interest rates.
Foreign exchange sensitivity
The table below shows the Group’s sensitivity to foreign exchange rates on its US dollar, Euro and Yen financial instruments excluding
obligations under finance leases and certain non-derivative financial instruments not in net debt and which do not present a material
exposure. These three currencies are the major currencies in which GSK’s financial instruments are denominated. GSK has considered
movements in these currencies over the last three years and has concluded that a 20% movement in rates is a reasonable benchmark. In this
table, financial instruments are only considered sensitive to foreign exchange rates where they are not in the functional currency of the entity
that holds them. Intercompany loans which are fully hedged to maturity with a currency swap have been excluded from this analysis.
2008 2007
Increase/(decrease) Reduction Increase/(decrease) Reduction
in income in equity in income in equity
£m £m £m £m
20% appreciation (2007 – 10% appreciation) of the US dollar 210 991 38 580
20% appreciation (2007 – 10% appreciation) of the Euro (20) 1,760 (10) 709
20% appreciation (2007 – 10% appreciation) of the Yen 1 52 – 15
A 20% (2007 – 10%) depreciation of the stated currencies would have an equal and opposite effect. The movements in the income statement
relate primarily to hedging instruments for US dollar legal provisions, trade payables and trade receivables. Whilst these are economic hedges,
the provisions are not financial instruments and therefore are not included in the table above. The sensitivity of these hedging instruments
would be insignificant if the provisions were included. The movements in equity relate to foreign exchange positions used to hedge Group
assets denominated in US dollar, Euro and Yen. Therefore, a depreciation on the currency swap would give rise to a corresponding appreciation
on the Group asset. Foreign exchange sensitivity on Group assets other than financial instruments is not included above.162 GSK Annual Report 2008
Financial statements
NNootteess ttoo tthhee fifinnaanncciiaall ssttaatteemmeennttss
ccoonnttiinnuueedd
41 Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Interest rate sensitivity
The table below shows the Group’s sensitivity to interest rates on its floating rate Sterling, US dollar and Euro financial instruments, being
the currencies in which GSK has historically issued debt and held investments. GSK has considered movements in these interest rates over
the last three years and has concluded that a 2% increase is a reasonable benchmark. Debt with a maturity of less than one year is
floating rate for this calculation. A 2% movement in interest rates is not deemed to have a material effect on equity.
2008 2007
Increase/(decrease) Increase/(decrease)
in income in income
£m £m
2% increase (2007 – 1% increase) in Sterling interest rates 16 1
2% increase (2007 – 1% increase) in US dollar interest rates 13 (16)
2% increase (2007 – 1% increase) in Euro interest rates 4 3
A 2% (2007 – 1%) decrease in these interest rates would have an equal and opposite effect, with the exception of US dollar, where interest
rates could not be decreased by 2% as they are currently less than 0.5%. The maximum decrease in income would therefore be limited to
£1 million. Interest rate movements on obligations under finance leases, foreign currency and interest rate derivatives, trade payables, trade
receivables and other financial instruments not in net debt do not present a material exposure to the Group’s balance sheet based on a 2%
increase or decrease in these interest rates.
Contractual cash flows for non-derivative financial liabilities and derivative instruments
The following is an analysis of the anticipated contractual cash flows including interest payable for the Group’s non-derivative financial
liabilities on an undiscounted basis. For the purpose of this table, debt is defined as all classes of borrowings except for obligations under
finance leases. Interest is calculated based on debt held at 31st December without taking account of future issuance. Floating rate interest
is estimated using the prevailing interest rate at the balance sheet date. Cash flows in foreign currencies are translated using spot rates at
31st December.
Finance charge Trade and
Obligations on obligations other
Interest on under finance under finance payables not
At 31st December 2008 Debt debt leases leases in net debt Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Due less than one year (907) (790) (48) (5) (5,246) (6,996)
Between one and two years (704) (767) (35) (4) (68) (1,578)
Between two and three years – (757) (27) (3) (25) (812)
Between three and four years (2,885) (757) (14) (2) (32) (3,690)
Between four and five years (1,736) (582) (4) (2) (5) (2,329)
Between five and ten years (4,156) (2,373) (8) (2) (76) (6,615)
Greater than ten years (5,678) (5,850) – – – (11,528)
Gross contractual cash flows (16,066) (11,876) (136) (18) (5,452) (33,548)
Finance charge Trade and
Obligations on obligations other
Interest on under finance under finance payables not
At 31st December 2007 Debt debt leases leases in net debt Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Due less than one year (3,466) (412) (40) (5) (4,330) (8,253)
Between one and two years (368) (339) (37) (3) (75) (822)
Between two and three years (10) (327) (24) (2) (15) (378)
Between three and four years – (327) (9) (2) (3) (341)
Between four and five years (2,206) (327) (4) (1) (1) (2,539)
Between five and ten years (1,657) (856) (9) (1) (26) (2,549)
Greater than ten years (2,821) (2,707) – – – (5,528)
Gross contractual cash flows (10,528) (5,295) (123) (14) (4,450) (20,410)GSK Annual Report 2008 163
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
41 Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
The following table provides an analysis of the anticipated contractual cash flows for the Group’s derivative instruments, excluding
embedded derivatives and equity options, using undiscounted cash flows. Cash flows in foreign currencies are translated using spot rates
at 31st December.
2008 2007
Receivables Payables Receivables Payables
£m £m £m £m
Less than one year 36,105 (37,738) 23,784 (23,630)
Between one and two years 184 (204) 389 (323)
Between two and three years 110 (120) 10 (14)
Between three and four years 521 (532) 34 (39)
Between four and five years 35 (46) 216 (246)
Greater than five years – (6) – (5)
Gross contractual cash flows 36,955 (38,646) 24,433 (24,257)
Derivative financial instruments and hedging programmes
The following table sets out the principal amounts and fair values of derivatives held by GSK.
2008 2007
Fair value Fair value
Principal Principal
amount Assets Liabilities amount Assets Liabilities
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Cash flow hedges:
Cross currency swaps 481 – (37) 368 57 –
Fair value hedges:
Interest rate swaps 1,042 107 – 1,989 7 (6)
Net investment hedges:
Foreign exchange contracts (12,848) 4 (601) (9,553) – (220)
Cross currency swaps – – – 388 111 –
Derivatives designated as accounting hedges (11,325) 111 (638) (6,808) 175 (226)
Foreign exchange contracts 12,093 837 (108) 10,156 287 (40)
Equity related instruments:
Options and warrants – – – 4 4 –
Equity collar – – – 532 7 (2)
Embedded derivatives 73 15 (8) 92 3 (2)
Other derivatives 12,166 852 (116) 10,784 301 (44)
Total derivative instruments 841 963 (754) 3,976 476 (270)
Analysed as:
Current 856 (752) 475 (262)
Non-current 107 (2) 1 (8)
Total 963 (754) 476 (270)164 GSK Annual Report 2008
Financial statements
NNootteess ttoo tthhee fifinnaanncciiaall ssttaatteemmeennttss
ccoonnttiinnuueedd
41 Financial instruments and related disclosures 42 Employee share schemes
continued
The Group operates share option schemes, whereby
Derivative financial instruments options are granted to employees to acquire shares or ADS
The principal amount on foreign exchange contracts is calculated in GlaxoSmithKline plc at the grant price, savings-related
based on outstanding positions at the balance sheet date, share option schemes and share award schemes, whereby
calculated net by currency and buy/sell side position. The majority awards are granted to employees to acquire shares or ADS in
of contracts are for periods of 12 months or less. GlaxoSmithKline plc at no cost, subject to the achievement by
the Group of specified performance targets.
At 31st December 2008, the Group held outstanding foreign
exchange contracts consisting primarily of currency swaps with The Group also operates a share award scheme, the Share Value
a total fair value of £729 million (2007 – £247 million) which Plan, whereby awards are granted to employees to acquire shares
represent hedges of inter-company loans and deposits, but are or ADS in GlaxoSmithKline plc at no cost after a three year vesting
not designated as accounting hedges. Changes in fair value are period. The granting of restricted share awards has replaced the
taken to profit and loss in the period to offset the exchange gains granting of options to certain employees as the cost of the scheme
and losses on the related inter-company lending and borrowing. more readily equates to the potential gain to be made by
Cash flow hedges the employee.
The Group has entered into a cross currency swap and designated Grants under share option schemes are normally exercisable
it a cash flow hedge converting fixed Euro interest on Euro debt between three and ten years from the date of grant. Grants of
within the Group’s Japanese subsidiary, payable annually, to fixed restricted shares and share awards are normally exercisable at the
Yen payments. The bond matures in 2009. The risk being hedged end of the three year vesting/performance period. Grants under
is the variability of cash flows arising from currency fluctuations. savings-related share option schemes are normally exercisable
No ineffectiveness is assumed on the hedge. All cash flows after three years’ saving. Options under the share option schemes
relating to the hedge are expected to occur within the next year. are granted at the market price ruling at the date of grant. In
The amounts recognised in equity are recycled to the income accordance with UK practice, the majority of options under the
statement to offset the exchange gains or losses in the same savings-related share option schemes are granted at a price 20%
period on the underlying bond as a result of revaluation at the below the market price ruling at the date of grant. Share options
balance sheet date. awarded to the Directors and, with effect from the 2004 grant,
the CET are subject to performance criteria.
The amount recognised in equity in 2008 for cross currency
interest rate swaps was £88 million debit (2007 – £10 million
credit). The amount recycled from equity to the income statement
in 2008 for cross currency interest rate swaps to offset the
exchange gain on the underlying bond recognised in the income
statement was £101 million (2007 – £14 million). The net fair
value movements on cash flow hedges are disclosed in the
Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense.
Fair value hedges
The Group has designated an interest rate swap as a fair value
hedge. The risk being hedged is the variability of the fair value of
the bond arising from interest rate fluctuations. Gains and losses
on fair value hedges are disclosed in Note 12, ‘Finance costs’.
Net investment hedges
Foreign exchange contracts have been designated as net
investment hedges in respect of the foreign currency translation
risk principally arising on consolidation of the Group’s net
investment in its US dollar, Euro and Yen foreign operations.
In addition, Euro loan capital issued during 2007 of €3.5 billion,
and €750 million from previous years, has been designated as
a non-monetary net investment hedge in respect of the foreign
currency translation risk principally arising on consolidation of
the Group’s net investment in its Euro operations. Net investment
hedge ineffectiveness is disclosed in Note 11, ‘Finance income’.GSK Annual Report 2008 165
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
42 Employee share schemes continued
Option pricing
For the purposes of valuing options to arrive at the stock-based compensation charge, the Black-Scholes option pricing model has been
used. The assumptions used in the model for 2006, 2007 and 2008 are as follows:
2008 2007 2006
Risk-free interest rate 1.3% – 4.8% 4.7% – 5.3% 4.2% – 5.0%
Dividend yield 4.8% 4.0% 3.3%
Volatility 19% – 24% 17% – 25% 18% – 29%
Expected lives of options granted under:
Share option schemes 5 years 5 years 5 years
Savings-related share option and share award schemes 3 years 3 years 3 years
Weighted average share price for grants in the year:
Ordinary Shares £11.59 £14.41 £14.64
ADS $45.02 $57.59 $51.40
Volatility is determined based on the three and five year share price history where appropriate. The fair value of performance share plan
grants take into account market conditions. Expected lives of options were determined based on weighted average historic exercises
of options.
Options outstanding Share option Share option Savings-related
schemes - shares schemes - ADS share option schemes
Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted
Number exercise fair Number exercise fair Number exercise fair
000 price value 000 price value 000 price value
At 1st January 2006 166,926 £14.97 95,592 $46.86 8,766 £10.66
Options granted 9,776 £14.78 £3.53 7,940 $51.36 $11.59 2,069 £11.40 £3.41
Options exercised (13,244) £11.66 (13,310) $41.78 (2,009) £9.48
Options lapsed (6,755) £15.35 (1,791) $46.88 (653) £10.97
At 31st December 2006 156,703 £15.22 88,431 $48.02 8,173 £11.11
Options granted 10,587 £14.82 £3.07 8,624 $57.58 $10.93 3,212 £10.50 £2.87
Options exercised (9,863) £12.10 (18,149) $44.27 (1,140) £9.74
Options lapsed (8,386) £15.64 (1,632) $50.90 (1,707) £11.33
At 31st December 2007 149,041 £15,38 77,274 $49.91 8,538 £11.02
Options granted 11,314 £11.50 £1.32 7,690 $44.89 $3.84 5,570 £9.51 £2.56
Options exercised (2,198) £11.84 (1,989) $42.18 (453) £10.26
Options lapsed (21,602) £16.52 (7,497) $53.13 (2,401) £10.67
At 31st December 2008 136,555 £14.93 75,478 $49.29 11,254 £10.38
Range of exercise prices £10.76 – £19.77 $37.09 – $61.35 £9.52 – £11.45
Weighted average remaining
contractual life 4.16 years 4.88 years 2.1 years166 GSK Annual Report 2008
Financial statements
NNootteess ttoo tthhee fifinnaanncciiaall ssttaatteemmeennttss
ccoonnttiinnuueedd
42 Employee share schemes continued
In order to encourage employees to convert options, excluding savings-related share options, held over Glaxo Wellcome or SmithKline
Beecham shares or ADS, into those over GlaxoSmithKline shares or ADS, a programme was established to give an additional cash benefit
of 10% of the exercise price of the original option provided that the employee did not voluntarily leave the Group for two years from the
date of the merger and did not exercise the option before the earlier of six months from the expiry date of the original option and two
years from the date of the merger. The cash benefit will also be paid if the options expire unexercised if the market price is below the
exercise price on the date of expiry.
Share option Share option Savings-related
Options outstanding schemes - shares schemes - ADS share option schemes
at 31st December 2008 Weighted Latest Weighted Latest Weighted Latest
Number exercise exercise Number exercise exercise Number Exercise exercise
Year of grant 000 price date 000 price date 000 price date
1999 13,540 £18.19 30.11.09 6,021 $60.14 23.11.09 – – –
2000 13,163 £14.89 29.10.10 288 $58.88 15.03.10 – – –
2001 36,566 £18.12 25.11.11 22,215 $51.84 25.11.11 – – –
2002 15,324 £11.96 30.11.12 6,040 $37.67 30.11.12 – – –
2003 20,496 £12.67 13.12.13 11,028 $43.55 13.12.13 – – –
2004 7,260 £11.23 02.12.14 6,612 $43.17 01.12.14 – – –
2005 190 £13.05 30.10.15 428 $47.33 31.12.15 3,248 £11.45 26.04.09
2006 8,879 £14.69 28.11.16 7,202 $51.27 28.07.16 967 £11.40 25.04.10
2007 10,012 £14.81 18.08.17 8,184 $57.59 25.07.17 1,651 £10.50 24.04.11
2008 11,125 £11.50 20.07.18 7,460 $44.91 02.11.18 5,388 £9.51 22.04.12
Total 136,555 £14.93 75,478 $49.29 11,254 £10.38
Options normally become exercisable from three years from the date of grant but may, under certain circumstances, vest earlier as set out
within the various scheme rules.
There has been no change in the effective exercise price of any outstanding options during the year.
Share option Share option Savings-related
Options exercisable schemes - shares schemes - ADS share option schemes
at 31st December 2008 Weighted Weighted Weighted
Number exercise Number exercise Number exercise
000 price 000 price 000 price
At 31st December 2006 137,983 £15.51 71,238 $48.32 179 £10.20
At 31st December 2007 129,209 £15.47 60,927 $48.70 307 £9.52
At 31st December 2008 109,207 £15.29 55,384 $48.57 3,248 £11.45GSK Annual Report 2008 167
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
42 Employee share schemes continued
GlaxoSmithKline share award schemes
Performance Share Plan
The Group operates a Performance Share Plan whereby awards are granted to Directors and senior executives at no cost. The percentage
of each award that vests is based upon the performance of the Group over a three year measurement period. The performance conditions
consist of two parts, each of which applies to 50% of the award. The first part of the condition compares GSK’s TSR over the period with
the TSR of 13 pharmaceutical companies in the comparator group over the same period. The second part of the performance condition
compares GSK’s earnings per share growth to the increase in the UK Retail Prices Index over the three year performance period. Awards
granted to Directors and members of the CET are subject to a single performance condition which compares GSK’s TSR over the period
with the TSR of companies in the comparator group over the same period.
Shares Weighted ADS Weighted
Number of shares and ADS issuable Number (000) fair value Number (000) fair value
At 1st January 2006 3,627 3,007
Awards granted 2,068 £10.06 1,452 $35.13
Awards exercised (438) (187)
Awards cancelled (501) (238)
At 31st December 2006 4,756 4,034
Awards granted 2,071 £10.26 1,501 $34.87
Awards exercised (147) (77)
Awards cancelled (949) (1,131)
At 31st December 2007 5,731 4,327
Awards granted 2,834 £7.77 1,467 $27.99
Awards exercised (1,519) (1,516)
Awards cancelled (511) (420)
At 31st December 2008 6,535 3,858
Share Value Plan
The Group operates a Share Value Plan whereby awards are granted, in the form of shares, to certain employees at no cost. The awards
vest after three years. There are no performance criteria attached.
Shares Weighted ADS Weighted
Number of shares and ADS issuable Number (000) fair value Number (000) fair value
At 1st January 2006 4,514 3,849
Awards granted 4,759 £13.45 4,126 $52.53
Awards exercised (131) (66)
Awards cancelled (348) (280)
At 31st December 2006 8,794 7,629
Awards granted 5,155 £13.22 4,231 $52.08
Awards exercised (3,643) (3,038)
Awards cancelled (672) (539)
At 31st December 2007 9,634 8,283
Awards granted 5,572 £9.85 4,640 $36.46
Awards exercised (926) (931)
Awards cancelled (592) (630)
At 31st December 2008 13,688 11,362168 GSK Annual Report 2008
Financial statements
NNootteess ttoo tthhee fifinnaanncciiaall ssttaatteemmeennttss
ccoonnttiinnuueedd
42 Employee share schemes continued
Deferred Investment Award Plan
The Group operates a Deferred Investment Award Plan whereby awards are granted, in the form of notional shares, to certain senior
executives at no cost. Awards typically vest over a three-year period commencing on the fourth anniversary from date of grant with
50% of the award initially vesting and then 25% in each of the subsequent two years. There are no performance criteria attached.
Shares Weighted ADS Weighted
Number of shares and ADS issuable Number (000) fair value Number (000) fair value
At 1st January 2006 40 55
Awards granted 106 £13.90 15 $53.60
Awards exercised – –
Awards cancelled (13) (5)
At 31st December 2006 133 65
Awards granted 95 £13.20 40 $53.40
Awards exercised – (9)
Awards cancelled (4) –
At 31st December 2007 224 96
Awards granted 334 £11.70 70 $43.80
Awards exercised (20) (20)
Awards cancelled – (27)
At 31st December 2008 538 119
Employee Share Ownership Plan Trusts
The Group sponsors Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) Trusts to acquire and hold shares in GlaxoSmithKline plc to satisfy awards
made under employee incentive plans and options granted under employee share option schemes. The trustees of the ESOP Trusts
purchase shares on the open market with finance provided by the Group by way of loans or contributions. Costs of running the ESOP
Trusts are charged to the income statement. Shares held by the ESOP Trusts are deducted from other reserves and held at the value of
proceeds receivable from employees on exercise. If there is deemed to be a permanent diminution in value this is reflected by a transfer
to retained earnings. The Trusts also acquire and hold shares to meet notional dividends re-invested on deferred awards under the
SmithKline Beecham Mid-Term Incentive Plan. The trustees have waived their rights to dividends on the shares held by the ESOP Trusts.
Shares held for share award schemes 2008 2007
Number of shares (‘000) 53,147 45,247
£m £m
Nominal value 13 11
Carrying value 234 242
Market value 683 579
Shares held for share option schemes 2008 2007
Number of shares (‘000) 75,822 89,283
£m £m
Nominal value 19 22
Carrying value 1,211 1,375
Market value 974 1,142GSK Annual Report 2008 169
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
43 Principal Group companies
The following represent the principal subsidiary and associated undertakings of the GlaxoSmithKline Group at 31st December 2008. Details are given
of the principal country of operation, the location of the headquarters, the business segment and the business activities. The equity share capital of these
undertakings is wholly owned by the Group except where its percentage interest is shown otherwise. All companies are incorporated in their principal
country of operation except where stated.
Europe Location Subsidiary Segment Activity %
England Brentford +GlaxoSmithKline Holdings Limited Ph,CH h
Brentford +GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (One) Limited Ph,CH h
Brentford +GlaxoSmithKline Services Unlimited Ph,CH s
Brentford GlaxoSmithKline Finance plc Ph,CH f
Brentford GlaxoSmithKline Capital plc Ph f
Brentford SmithKline Beecham p.l.c. Ph,CH d e h m p r
Brentford Wellcome Limited Ph,CH h
Greenford Glaxo Group Limited Ph h
Greenford Glaxo Operations UK Limited Ph p
Brentford Glaxo Wellcome International B.V. (i) Ph,CH h
Brentford Glaxo Wellcome Investments B.V. (i) Ph,CH h
Brentford GlaxoSmithKline Export Limited Ph e
Brentford GlaxoSmithKline Research & Development Limited Ph d r
Brentford GlaxoSmithKline UK Limited Ph m p
Brentford SmithKline Beecham (Investments) Limited Ph,CH f
Brentford Setfirst Limited Ph,CH h
Brentford Setfirst (No.2) Limited Ph,CH h
Greenford The Wellcome Foundation Limited Ph p
Cambridge Domantis Limited Ph d r
Brentford SmithKline Beecham Overseas Limited Ph h
Brentford SmithKline Beecham Holdings (UK) Limited Ph h
Brentford GlaxoSmithKline (Netherlands) B.V. (i) Ph h
Austria Vienna GlaxoSmithKline Pharma GmbH Ph m
Belgium Genval GlaxoSmithKline S.A. Ph m
Rixensart GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals S.A. Ph d e m p r
Czech Republic Prague GlaxoSmithKline s.r.o. Ph,CH m
Denmark Orestadt GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare A/S CH m
Brøndby GlaxoSmithKline Pharma A/S Ph m
Finland Espoo GlaxoSmithKline Oy Ph m
France Marly le Roi Groupe GlaxoSmithKline S.A.S. Ph h
Marly le Roi Laboratoire GlaxoSmithKline S.A.S. Ph m r d
Marly le Roi Glaxo Wellcome Production S.A.S. Ph p
Marly le Roi GlaxoSmithKline Sante Grand Public S.A.S. CH m
St. Amand Les Eaux GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals S.A.S Ph p
Germany Buehl GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare GmbH & Co. KG CH d h m p r s
Munich GlaxoSmithKline GmbH & Co. KG Ph d h m p r s
Greece Athens GlaxoSmithKline A.E.B.E Ph,CH m
Hungary Budapest GlaxoSmithKline Medicine and Healthcare Products Limited Ph,CH e m
Italy Verona GlaxoSmithKline S.p.A. Ph d h m r
Milan GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare S.p.A. CH h m
Verona GlaxoSmithKline Manufacturing S.p.A. Ph p170 GSK Annual Report 2008
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
43 Principal Group companies continued
Europe Location Subsidiary Segment Activity %
Luxembourg Mamer GlaxoSmithKline International (Luxembourg) S.A. Ph,CH f h
Netherlands Zeist GlaxoSmithKline B.V. Ph m
Utrecht GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare B.V. CH m
Norway Oslo GlaxoSmithKline AS Ph m
Poland Poznan GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals S.A. Ph p 97
Poznan GSK Services Sp.z o.o. Ph m
Warsaw GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Sp.z o.o. CH m e
Portugal Alges GlaxoSmithKline-Produtos Farmaceuticos, Limitada Ph m
Republic of Carrigaline SmithKline Beecham (Cork) Limited (ii) Ph d p r
Ireland Cork GlaxoSmithKline Trading Services Limited (ii) Ph e
Dublin GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (Ireland) Limited (ii) CH m
Dublin GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited Ph m
Russian Moscow GlaxoSmithKline Trading ZAO Ph m
Federation Moscow GlaxoSmithKline Healthcare ZAO CH m
Spain Madrid GlaxoSmithKline S.A. Ph m
Madrid GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare S.A. CH m
Aranda de Duero Glaxo Wellcome S.A. Ph p
Sweden Solna GlaxoSmithKline AB Ph m
Switzerland Muenchenbuchsee GlaxoSmithKline AG Ph m
USA
USA Hamilton Corixa Corporation Ph m p
Philadelphia SmithKline Beecham Corporation Ph,CH d e h m p r s
Pittsburgh CNS, Inc. CH m
Pittsburgh GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare, L.P. CH m p 88
Pittsburgh Block Drug Company, Inc. CH h m
Liberty Corner Reliant Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Ph m r
Wilmington GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (Americas) Inc. Ph,CH h
Wilmington GlaxoSmithKline Capital Inc. Ph f
Wilmington Sirtris Pharmaceuticals Inc. Ph r
Americas
Bermuda Hamilton GlaxoSmithKline Insurance Ltd Ph,CH i
Canada Mississauga GlaxoSmithKline Inc. Ph m p r
Oakville GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Inc. CH m
Laval ID Biomedical Corporation Ph h
Laval ID Biomedical Corporation of Quebec Ph d m p r
Asia Pacific
Australia Boronia GlaxoSmithKline Australia Pty Ltd Ph,CH d e m p r
China Beijing GlaxoSmithKline (China) Investment Co. Ltd Ph,CH d h m
Hong Kong GlaxoSmithKline Limited Ph,CH m
Tianjin Sino-American Tianjin Smith Kline & French Laboratories Ltd Ph,CH d m p r 55GSK Annual Report 2008 171
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
43 Principal Group companies continued
Asia Pacific Location Subsidiary Segment Activity %
India Mumbai GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Limited Ph m p 51
Nabha GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Limited (iii) CH m p 43
Malaysia Petaling Jaya GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceutical Sdn Bhd Ph m
Selangor GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Sdn Bhd CH m
New Zealand Auckland GlaxoSmithKline NZ Limited Ph,CH m
Pakistan Karachi GlaxoSmithKline Pakistan Limited Ph,CH m p e 79
Philippines Makati GlaxoSmithKline Philippines Inc Ph,CH m
Singapore Singapore Glaxochem Pte Ltd Ph h
Singapore Glaxo Wellcome Manufacturing Pte Ltd Ph d h p r
Singapore GlaxoSmithKline Pte Ltd Ph,CH m
South Korea Seoul GlaxoSmithKline Korea Limited Ph ,CH m p
Thailand Bangkok GlaxoSmithKline (Thailand) Limited Ph,CH m
Japan
Japan Tokyo GlaxoSmithKline K.K. Ph,CH d m p
Latin America
Argentina Buenos Aires GlaxoSmithKline Argentina S.A. Ph,CH e m p
Brazil Rio de Janeiro GlaxoSmithKline Brasil Limitada Ph,CH e m p
Colombia Bogota GlaxoSmithKline Colombia S.A. Ph,CH m
Mexico Delegacion Tlalpan GlaxoSmithKline Mexico S.A. de C.V. Ph,CH e m p s
Puerto Rico Guaynabo GlaxoSmithKline Puerto Rico Inc. Ph m
Venezuela Caracas GlaxoSmithKline Venezuela C.A. Ph,CH m
Middle East & Africa
Egypt Cairo GlaxoSmithKline S.A.E Ph m p 91
South Africa Bryanston GlaxoSmithKline South Africa (Pty) Limited Ph,CH m p
Turkey Istanbul GlaxoSmithKline Ilaclari Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S. Ph m p
USA
USA Madison Quest Diagnostics Incorporated (iv) Clinical testing 19
i) Incorporated in the Netherlands.
ii) Exempt from the provisions of Section 7 of the Companies (Amendment) Act 1986 (Ireland).
iii) C onsolidated as a subsidiary undertaking in accordance with Section 258 (4)(a) of the Companies Act 1985 on the grounds of dominant
influence.
iv) Equity accounted on the grounds of significant influence.
+ Directly held wholly owned subsidiary of GlaxoSmithKline plc.
Key
Business segment: Ph Pharmaceuticals, CH Consumer Healthcare
Business activity: d development, e exporting, f finance, h holding company, i insurance, m marketing, p production, r research, s service
Full details of all Group subsidiary and associated undertakings will be attached to the company’s Annual Return to be filed with the Registrar
of Companies. Each of GlaxoSmithKline Capital Inc. and GlaxoSmithKline Capital plc is a wholly-owned finance subsidiary of the company, and the
company has fully and unconditionally guaranteed the securities issued by each of GlaxoSmithKline Capital Inc. and GlaxoSmithKline Capital plc.172 GSK Annual Report 2008
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
44 Legal proceedings In October 2007, the Group filed a complaint with the Patent
Dispute Chamber of the Regional Court in Düsseldorf, Germany
The Group is involved in significant legal and administrative
against Neolab (UK) for infringement of its German patent
proceedings, principally product liability, intellectual property,
claiming compositions containing the combination of salmeterol
tax, antitrust and governmental investigations, as well as related
and fluticasone propionate used in Seretide (known as Viani in
private litigation. The Group makes provision for these proceedings
Germany). The complaint was based on Neolab’s stated intention
on a regular basis as summarised in Note 2, ‘Accounting principles
by letter to market a salmeterol/fluticasone combination product
and policies’ and Note 29, ‘Other provisions’. The Group may
in Germany in 2008 (which event did not occur). A trial took place
make additional significant provisions for such legal proceedings
in the Patent Dispute Chamber of the Regional Court in Düsseldorf
as required in the event of further developments in these
in January 2009 at which Neolab argued that a letter stating a
matters, consistent with generally accepted accounting principles.
proposed intent to sell in the future does not constitute a basis
Litigation, particularly in the USA, is inherently unpredictable.
for an infringement decision. A decision is expected in March
Excessive awards may occur even if they may not be justified by
2009. In January 2009, Neolab filed an action to invalidate the
the evidence. The Group could in the future incur judgements
combination patent in the Federal Court of Germany. Revocation
or enter into settlements of claims that could result in payments
actions against the combination patent in Germany have also
that exceed its current provisions by an amount that would have a
been filed by Mylan Dura GmbH (March 2008) and Hexal AG
material adverse effect on the Group’s financial condition, results
(December 2008). No trial date has been set for these actions. The
of operations and/or cash flows. Intellectual property claims
basic patent covering the combination product in Seretide expires
include challenges to the validity and enforceability of the Group’s
in September 2010 but is subject to a Supplementary Protection
patents on various products or processes as well as assertions of
Certificate, which extends protection until September 2013.
non-infringement of those patents. A loss in any of these cases
could result in loss of patent protection for the product at issue. In March 2008, the Group initiated an infringement action in
The consequences of any such loss could be a significant decrease the Federal Court of The Hague against a number of internet
in sales of that product and could materially affect future results of pharmacy organisations together with Cipla Limited, for
operations for the Group. infringement of the Group’s Dutch combination patent relating
to Seretide. The action was heard on 24th October 2008. In a
Legal expenses incurred and provisions related to legal claims are
decision dated 26th November 2008, the Court did not find
charged to selling, general and administration costs. Provisions are
infringement but indicated that they saw no evidence that brought
made, after taking appropriate legal and other specialist advice,
patent validity into question. In particular, the Court noted that
when a reasonable estimate can be made of the likely outcome of
a prior UK revocation decision of 2004 on the corresponding
the dispute. The Group has established an actuarially determined
UK patent was out-dated because it was reached using an
provision for product liability claims incurred, but not yet reported
interpretation of the law relating to inventive step that was no
as described in Note 29, ‘Other provisions’. At 31st December
longer followed.
2008, the Group’s aggregate provision for legal and other disputes
(not including tax matters described in Note 14, ‘Taxation’) was A revocation action against the basic patent covering the Seretide
£1.9 billion. The ultimate liability for legal claims may vary from combination in Ireland was filed in the High Court in Dublin on
the amounts provided and depends upon the outcome of litigation behalf of Ivax in July 2008. The trial is scheduled to begin in
proceedings, investigations and possible settlement negotiations. March 2009.
The most significant of those matters are described below. Argatroban
In December 2007, Encysive Pharmaceuticals Inc., Mitsubishi Kasei
Intellectual property
Corporation and the Group filed an action in the US District Court
Advair/Seretide for the Southern District of New York against Barr Laboratories,
In September 2004, the Group applied to the US Patent and Inc. for infringement of Mitsubishi’s pharmaceutical composition
Trademark Office (USPTO) for re-issue of its combination patent patent covering Argatroban. Pursuant to a license from Mitsubishi,
for Advair, an inhaled combination of salmeterol and fluticasone Encysive has developed Argatroban for the treatment of heparin-
propionate, which expires in September 2010. The USPTO reissued induced thrombocytopenia and holds the New Drug Application
the patent in February 2008. The re-issued patent has the same approved by the US FDA. Encysive has licensed the US marketing
September 2010 expiration date as the original combination rights to Argatroban to the Group. The Mitsubishi patent
patent and is listed in the register of pharmaceutical patents expires in June 2014. Barr had filed an Abbreviated New Drug
maintained by the US FDA, the Orange Book. Application (ANDA) with the FDA with a certification of invalidity,
unenforceability and non-infringement of the Mitsubishi patent.
FDA approval of that ANDA is stayed until the earlier of May 2010
or resolution of the patent infringement action. The case is in the
discovery phase.GSK Annual Report 2008 173
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
44 Legal proceedings continued In August 2008, the Group filed suit against Lupin in the
District Court for the District of Delaware for infringement of its
Avodart
combination patent. The Group did not file suit against Lupin
In January 2008, the Group received notice that Barr Laboratories
under the crystal form patent. FDA approval of Lupin’s ANDA is
filed an ANDA with the FDA with an allegation of invalidity
stayed until the earlier of January 2011 or resolution of the patent
of the three patents listed in the Orange Book with cover the
infringement action favourable to Lupin. Neither Teva nor Lupin
active ingredient in Avodart, and its use to treat benign prostatic
has challenged the compound patent that claims lamivudine, one
hyperplasia (BPH). In February 2008, SmithKline Beecham filed an
of the active ingredients in Combivir. That patent expires in 2010.
action in the US District Court for the District of Delaware against
Barr for infringement of these patents. The basic compound Coreg CR
patent expires in 2015. The other two patents expire in 2013. In December 2007, the Group received notice that United Research
FDA approval of Barr’s ANDA is stayed until the earlier of July Laboratories Inc./Mutual Pharmaceuticals Company, Inc. filed an
2010, or resolution of the patent infringement action. The case is ANDA with the FDA with a certification of invalidity, unenforceability
in the discovery phase. or non-infringement of the patents covering the crystalline salt
form and delayed release technology used for manufacturing that
Boniva
product, which expire in 2023 and 2016, respectively. In February
The Group participates in the marketing of Boniva pursuant to a
2008, the Group filed suit under the crystal form patent and, in the
co-promotion agreement with Roche. In September 2007, Roche
alternative, requested the court to dismiss Mutual’s certification
Laboratories commenced actions in the US District Court for the
as ineffective because its ANDA had not been accepted for filing
District of New Jersey against eight generic drug manufacturers. In
by the FDA when it sent its certification. In April 2008, the court
each case, Roche alleged infringement of Roche patents relating
dismissed the case on summary judgement. Mutual appealed
to Boniva tablets. Each of the defendants had filed an ANDA
to the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. The appeal was
with the FDA with a certification of invalidity, unenforceability
dismissed in November 2008.
or non-infringement of at least one of the Roche patents. Two
manufacturers have challenged the basic compound patent, which In March 2008, the FDA accepted Mutual’s ANDA, and Mutual
expires in 2012. Final FDA approval of those ANDAs is stayed until filed a second certification for Coreg CR alleging that the Group’s
the earlier of November 2010 or resolution of the relevant patent patents for Coreg CR were invalid, unenforceable or not infringed.
infringement action. In August 2008, Roche obtained a new The Group filed suit in April 2008 in the District Court for the
patent on the monthly dosing regimen for Boniva and brought suit Eastern District of Pennsylvania under the crystal form patent and
against all ANDA filers that were challenging its patents. The new a patent covering the use of Coreg CR in treating congestive heart
patent expires in 2023. The cases are ongoing. failure. In October 2008, the Group filed a motion to dismiss the
action and gave Mutual a covenant not-to-sue under the patents.
Combivir
Mutual has opposed the dismissal of the case. The parties await
Patents listed in the Orange Book for Combivir include composition
a decision on the motion to dismiss. Coreg CR has been granted
of matter (3TC/lamivudine), combination (lamivudine and AZT)
data exclusivity by the FDA that precludes approval of a generic
and lamivudine crystal form patents that expire in 2010, 2012
until April 2010.
and 2016, respectively. In September 2007, the Group received
notice that Teva filed an ANDA with the FDA alleging that the Paxil/Seroxat
combination patent is invalid. In the USA a number of manufacturers or distributors of generic
Paxil filed applications with the FDA to market their generic
In November 2007, the Group filed an action in the District Court
versions prior to the expiration in 2007 of the Group’s patent on
for the District of Delaware against Teva Pharmaceuticals for
paroxetine hyrdrochloride hemihydrate. Of these actions, only
infringement of the combination patent. FDA approval of Teva’s
one remains pending namely, an action against Apotex in the
ANDA is stayed until the earlier of March 2010 or resolution of the
District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania on patents
patent infringement action favourable to Teva. The case is in the
with composition of matter and process of manufacture claims.
discovery phase. In October 2008, Teva filed a certification that the
The case is in the discovery phase. An anti-trust counterclaim
Group’s patent covering the crystal form of lamivudine is invalid or
has been asserted by Apotex, as discussed below. In Europe,
not infringed. The Group did not file suit under this patent.
generic products containing paroxetine hydrochloride are now on
In July 2008, we received notice that Lupin Pharmaceuticals the market in most European countries. Litigation with Synthon
filed a certification with the FDA alleging that the combination BV was recently settled, litigation with FAL is ongoing and
patent is invalid or not infringed by its product. Lupin also filed a counterclaims for unfair competition have been asserted against
certification that the Group’s patent covering the crystal form of the Group. Following the litigation in Canada with Apotex over
lamivudine is invalid or not infringed. several patents related to paroxetine, Apotex launched its generic
product in Canada in October 2003.174 GSK Annual Report 2008
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
44 Legal proceedings continued Wellbutrin XL
In December 2004, Biovail commenced actions in the US District
Apotex has now alleged that as a result of that litigation it had
Court for the Central District of California against Anchen
been enjoined from launching that product after receipt of
Pharmaceuticals and in the US District Court for the Southern
regulatory approval. An action by Apotex to recover damages
District of Florida against Abrika Pharmaceuticals, in each case,
related to the delay occasioned by those injunctions is ongoing.
alleging infringement of Biovail formulation patents for Wellbutrin
Paxil CR XL. In April 2005, Biovail filed an action in the US District Court for
A US patent covering a delayed and controlled release formulation the Eastern District of Pennsylvania against Impax Laboratories for
of paroxetine hydrochloride (Paxil CR) was issued to the Group infringement of the same patents. Those patents expire in 2018.
in June 2007 and listed in the FDA Orange Book. Thereafter the Each of Anchen, Abrika and Impax had filed an ANDA with the
Group filed an action in the US District Court for the District of FDA with a certification of invalidity or non-infringement of the
New Jersey against Mylan for infringement of that newly issued Biovail patents. The Group is the licensee under those patents. In
patent. Subsequently, the parties reached a settlement. Mylan August 2006, the judge granted Anchen’s motion and ruled that
entered the market in May 2008 under the terms of the Anchen’s ANDA product did not infringe Biovail’s patent. Biovail
settlement agreement. has appealed that decision to the CAFC, and the case remains
on appeal. The Group is not a party to any of those actions. In
Requip XL
September 2005, Biovail commenced actions in the US District
In January 2009, the Group received letters from Impax
Court for the Southern District of New York against Watson
Laboratories, Inc. and Actavis South Atlantic LLC indicating that
Laboratories alleging infringement of the Biovail formulation
their ANDAs for Requip XL had been accepted by the FDA. The
patents. Watson’s third party counterclaim against the Group
letters included an allegation that the patent licensed by the Group
based on listing activities associated with the FDA Orange Book
from SkyePharma covering the extended release formulation is not
was dismissed in October 2006. The 300mg generic product was
infringed by their products. The Group did not bring suits against
launched in the USA in December 2006.
these companies.
In March 2007, Biovail announced a comprehensive settlement
Treximet
with Anchen, Impax, Watson and Teva following a voluntary
In October 2008, the Group received a letter from Par
review by the US Federal Trade Commission. Certain aspects of the
Pharmaceuticals that the FDA had accepted its ANDA for Treximet,
settlement remain confidential; however, the parties did disclose
which included a certification that patents owned by Pozen,
that with defined exceptions the generic companies would not
Inc. relating to Treximet were invalid, unenforceable and/or not
market the 150mg strength of Wellbutrin XL until 2008. The
infringed. Pozen’s patents are licensed to the Group. In November
generic version of the 150mg tablet was launched in the USA in
2008, Pozen filed suit against Par under three of its patents in the
May 2008.
District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. In November 2008,
the Group received a letter from Alphapharm and its designated USPTO Action
agent, Mylan Pharmaceuticals, that the FDA had accepted its In October 2007, the Group filed an action against the US Patent
ANDA for Treximet, which included a certification that Pozen’s and Trademark Office in the US District Court for the Eastern
patents relating to Treximet were invalid, unenforceable and/or not District of Virginia to enjoin permanently Final Regulations
infringed. Pozen filed suit against Alphapharm and Mylan in January published by the US Patent and Trademark Office which would
2009 for infringement of two of these patents in the District Court limit the number of continuation patent applications and patent
for the Eastern District of Texas and Delaware. Treximet has data claims that a patent applicant could prosecute before the Office.
exclusivity that precludes approval of a generic product until Those regulations were due to become effective on
April 2011. The Group is not a party to any of the lawsuits 1st November 2007.
brought by Pozen.
In October 2007, the court issued an order preliminarily enjoining
Valtrex implementation of the rules until a full hearing and decision on
In May 2003, the Group commenced an action in the US District the parties’ cross-motions for summary judgement. Following a
Court for the District of New Jersey against Ranbaxy Laboratories, hearing in February 2008, the court issued a permanent injunction
alleging infringement of the Group’s compound patent for against implementation of the USPTO’s proposed rules in April
valacyclovir, the active ingredient in Valtrex. That patent expires 2008. The USPTO appealed the ruling to the US Court of Appeals
in December 2009. Ranbaxy had filed an ANDA with the FDA for the Federal Circuit (CAFC). The appeal was heard by the CAFC
with a certification that the Group’s compound patent is invalid, in December 2008. The parties await a decision.
unenforceable or not infringed. The case has been settled on terms
that permit Ranbaxy to enter the market in late 2009 (taking into
account expected paediatric exclusivity with respect to the Group’s
compound patent).GSK Annual Report 2008 175
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
44 Legal proceedings continued Others claim that persons who took Baycol, although not injured,
may be at risk of future injury or may have suffered economic
Product liability
damages from purchasing and using Baycol. Plaintiffs seek
Pre-clinical and clinical trials are conducted during the remedies including compensatory, punitive and statutory damages
development of potential products to determine the safety and and creation of funds for medical monitoring.
efficacy of products for use by humans following approval by
The Group and Bayer Corporation, the principal US subsidiary
regulatory bodies. Notwithstanding these efforts, when drugs and
of Bayer AG, have signed an allocation agreement under which
vaccines are introduced into the marketplace, unanticipated safety
Bayer Corporation has agreed to pay 95% of all settlements and
issues may become evident. The Group is currently a defendant
compensatory damages judgements, with each party retaining
in a number of product liability lawsuits related to the Group’s
responsibility for its own attorneys’ fees and any punitive damages.
pharmaceutical products. The most significant of those matters are
The federal cases have been consolidated in an MDL proceeding
described below.
in the US District Court for the District of Minnesota. To date two
Avandia statewide class actions have been certified – a medical monitoring
In May 2007, the New England Journal of Medicine (NEJM) case in Pennsylvania and a Consumer Fraud and Deceptive
published an article on Avandia in which the author, based on a Business Practices Act case in Illinois. The medical monitoring
meta-analysis of 42 clinical trials, raised concerns that use of the action was dismissed by the court on summary judgement.
drug rosiglitazone (Avandia) may be associated with an increased The certification of the consumer fraud case is currently on appeal
risk of heart attack and cardiovascular death in comparison to in the Illinois appellate courts.
the use of a placebo or other anti-diabetic therapies. Following
A nationwide class of third-party payers was certified by a
publication of the NEJM article, the Group has been named in
Pennsylvania state court. That case settled before trial. Another
product liability lawsuits on behalf of individuals and purported
class action, in which GSK was not named as a defendant, had
class action cases asserting consumer fraud and/or personal injury
been certified in Oklahoma. That case has been decertified, and
claims on behalf of purchasers and users of Avandia. The federal
the deadline for appealing the decertification order has passed.
cases are part of a multi-district litigation (MDL) proceeding
More than 3,100 claims for death or serious injury have been
pending in the US District Court for the Eastern District of
settled. Thousands of others alleging muscle aches and pains
Pennsylvania. Cases have also been filed in state courts. Cases filed
have been voluntarily or involuntarily dismissed.
in Philadelphia have been coordinated in the Mass Tort Program.
These matters are in the discovery phase. Additionally, a purported Paxil and Paxil CR
nationwide class action suit was filed in February 2009 in the US The Group has received lawsuits and claims alleging that use
District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania on behalf of of Paxil (paroxetine) during pregnancy resulted in the birth of a
all third party payers seeking economic damages under various child with birth defects or health issues. Separately, the Group
state unfair trade practices and consumer protection laws. The has received lawsuits and claims that patients who took Paxil
Group is in the process of evaluating the complaint. committed or attempted to commit suicide and/or acts of violence.
The Group also has received lawsuits and claims filed on behalf
Finally, one purported class action has been filed in Israel, and
of patients alleging that they suffered symptoms on discontinuing
briefing of whether to certify the class action is underway. Seven
treatment with Paxil. The cases filed in Philadelphia have been
class actions are pending in Canada, and are at an early stage.
coordinated in the Mass Tort Program. In September 2005,
Baycol the US label for Paxil was updated to reflect new information
In August 2001, Bayer AG withdrew Baycol (cerivastatin sodium) that suggested an increased risk of congenital malformations
worldwide in light of reports of adverse events, including deaths, (particularly cardiovascular malformations) in infants born to
involving rhabdomyolysis. The Group had participated in the mothers who took Paxil during the first trimester of pregnancy.
marketing of Baycol in the USA pursuant to a co-promotion In December 2005, the Paxil US label was further updated to
agreement with Bayer which was the licence holder and include new data and to strengthen the pregnancy warning from
manufacturer of the product. Following the withdrawal, Bayer and category C to category D. This category indicates there is evidence
the Group were named as defendants in thousands of lawsuits of risk to the foetus, but the potential benefits from the use of the
filed in state and federal courts in the USA on behalf of both drug in pregnant women may outweigh the risk.
individuals and putative classes of former Baycol users. A number
of the suits allege that the plaintiffs have suffered personal injuries,
including rhabdomyolsis, from the use of Baycol.176 GSK Annual Report 2008
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
44 Legal proceedings continued Two of the cases are purported class actions, although there
has been no determination whether any of those cases will be
In May 2006, the Paxil US label was again updated to include a
permitted to proceed as a class action. A number of purported
class warning concerning persistent pulmonary hypertension of the
class actions in other jurisdictions have been withdrawn or
newborn arising in mothers who took selective serotonin reuptake
dismissed. Plaintiffs seek remedies including compensatory,
inhibitor (SSRI) antidepressants after the 20th week of pregnancy.
punitive and statutory damages as well as the cost of a fund for
The Group has also received purported class action litigation
medical monitoring and research.
in Canada.
As of the date of this report, in the limited number of cases
The Group has received numerous claims and lawsuits alleging that
that have approached trial dates, vaccine manufacturers and
treatment with Paxil has caused homicidal or suicidal behaviour
manufacturers of other thimerosal containing medicinal products
exhibited by users of the product. Class certification was denied in
have been successful in excluding testimony of plaintiffs’ expert
January 2007 in a purported personal injury class action lawsuit.
witnesses on causation, specifically on grounds that plaintiffs have
Cases remain pending in federal and state courts. The cases filed
failed to establish that the hypothesized link between thimerosal
in Philadelphia have been coordinated in the Mass Tort Program.
and neurodevelopmental disorders is generally accepted as reliable
In January 2005, the FDA approved both a boxed warning that
within the relevant scientific community. Additionally, in February
antidepressants increased the risk of suicidal thoughts or behaviour
2009, the Office of Special Masters of the United States Court
in paediatric patients and other strengthened warnings for SSRI
of Federal Claims rejected the first three of approximately 4,900
products, including Paxil, as a class. In May 2006, the Paxil US label
autism claims filed under the National Vaccine Injury Compensation
was updated to warn that young adults, especially those with
Program (NVCIP) on the grounds that claimants failed to produce
Major Depressive Disorder, may be at increased risk for suicidal
reliable scientific evidence linking their vaccinations to their medical
behaviour during treatment with paroxetine.
conditions, including autism.
In August 2007, FDA required updated US labels for antidepressants,
The Group was not a party to these proceedings. The findings from
as a class, to state in the boxed warning that antidepressants
them cannot be used as evidence in the pending lawsuits against
increased the risk of suicidal thinking and behaviour in children,
the Group. The three NVICP claimants now have the option of
adolescents and young adults; that no increase was shown beyond
appealing the decisions or rejecting them and, instead, pursuing
age 24; that there was a reduction in risk in adults aged 65 and older;
personal injury lawsuits against the manufacturers of the vaccines
and that depression and other psychiatric disorders are themselves
administered to them. The remaining approximately 4,900 NVCIP
associated with increased risk.
claimants also will ultimately have the option of pursuing personal
The Group received lawsuits filed in state and federal courts injury lawsuits against the vaccine manufacturers, including the
in the USA and Canada on behalf of thousands of plaintiffs, Group. It is too early to determine whether the announcement of
including purported class actions, alleging that paroxetine (the the NVCIP decisions is likely to lead to an increase in the number
active ingredient in Paxil) is addictive and causes dependency and of civil cases filed against the Group. As of the date of this report,
withdrawal reactions. The US federal cases were consolidated in there are no cases scheduled for trial in 2009 in which the Group
an MDL proceeding. In January 2006, a conditional settlement is a defendant.
agreement became effective. The Group did not admit liability
with respect to the allegations in the lawsuits. Virtually all the US Sales and marketing and regulation
actions have now been resolved. A California court of appeals
Marketing and promotion
reversed dismissal of the class claims in a purported class action
In February 2004, the Group received a subpoena from the US
consumer fraud lawsuit, focused on discontinuation symptom.
Attorney’s office in Colorado regarding the Group’s sales and
That case is proceeding with no decision yet on class certification.
promotional practices relating to nine of its largest selling products,
There is purported class action litigation in Canada. The Group
for the period from January 1997 to 2004. In particular, the
is also defending litigation which has commenced in the UK on
government has inquired about alleged promotion of these drugs
behalf of hundreds of plaintiffs who allege that paroxetine has
for off-label uses, as well as Group-sponsored continuing medical
caused them to suffer from withdrawal reactions and dependency.
education programmes, other speaker events, special issue boards,
Thimerosal advisory boards, speaker training programmes, clinical studies and
The Group, along with a number of other pharmaceutical related grants, fees, travel and entertainment. Although the original
companies, has been named as a defendant in numerous subpoena was issued from the US Attorney’s office in Colorado, the
individual personal injury lawsuits in state and federal district scope of the inquiry is nationwide.
courts in the USA alleging that thimerosal, a preservative used in
the manufacture of vaccines, causes neurodevelopmental disorders
and other injuries, including autism.GSK Annual Report 2008 177
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
44 Legal proceedings continued A number of states, through their respective attorneys general, and
most of the counties in New York state have filed civil lawsuits in
The government is also inquiring about the Group’s response to
state and federal courts against GSK and many other drug companies
an October 2002 letter from the FDA’s Division of Drug Marketing,
claiming damages and restitution due to AWP and/or WAC price
Advertising and Communication requesting information on the
reporting for pharmaceutical products covered by the states’ Medicaid
Group’s alleged promotion of Wellbutrin SR for off-label use. The
programmes. The states seek recovery on behalf of the states as payers
Group is co-operating with the investigation and providing the
and, in some cases, on behalf of in-state patients as consumers.
requested information.
The Group has separately resolved AWP claims by state Medicaid
In February 2003, the Verona Public Prosecutor commenced
programmes in more than two-thirds of the states through the
a criminal investigation into the Group’s sales and marketing
DOJ Settlement or separate negotiations. Litigation concerning
practices in Italy. Specific areas of investigation include medical
AWP issues is continuing with eleven states, as well as with New
education programmes, clinical studies and congresses as well as the
York counties. In July 2008, an Alabama state court jury returned
interaction between the Group’s representatives and physicians.
an $81 million verdict against the Group in one such case filed by
The Public Prosecutor proposed that a number of physicians and the State of Alabama. The Group is seeking to have this decision
representatives of the Group face criminal charges. reversed on appeal by the Alabama Supreme Court.
However, at a hearing in January 2009, with the Public Prosecutor’s Nominal pricing
agreement, the Verona Court dismissed the charges against all the The Group responded to two letter requests from the US
remaining defendants which closes the case. The US Securities and Senate Committee on Finance, dated April 2004 and February
Exchange Commission (SEC) staff had initiated an investigation into 2005, for documents and information relating to the nominal
the allegations. The Group co-operated with this investigation, but price exception to the best price reporting requirements under
has not received any further requests for information from the SEC. the Medicaid Drug Rebate Programme. In January 2007, the
committee released its findings that some pharmaceutical
Following a United Nations report alleging that bribes had been
manufacturers inappropriately used the nominal price exception
paid to Iraqi government officials in connection with the UN Oil
contrary to the committee’s interpretation of Congressional intent.
for Food Programme, the Group received a subpoena from the
In May 2004, the Group was advised by the US Department
SEC in February 2006 in respect of the Group’s participation in
of Justice that it is investigating certain of the Group’s nominal
that programme. The US Department of Justice also initiated an
pricing and bundled sales arrangements to determine whether
investigation. In December 2007, the UK Serious Fraud Office
those arrangements qualify under the exception to the best price
issued a formal notice to the Group requiring production of
reporting requirements or violate civil statutes or laws. In March
documents related to the Group’s participation in the programme.
2008, the Group received a broad letter request from the US
The Group is co-operating with the investigations and has
Department of Justice seeking a range of documents relating to
provided documents responsive to the subpoena and the notice,
all of the Group’s nominal pricing arrangements since 1994 and
and is now responding to follow up questions and requests.
any possible bundled sales. The Group is continuing to co-operate
Average wholesale price
in the investigation and produce documents. The Group has also
The United States Department of Justice, a number of states and
received subpoenas and requests for documents and information
putative classes of private payers have for several years now been
from Delaware and Michigan related to the Group’s nominal price
investigating and/or bringing civil litigation regarding allegations that
arrangements. The Group is cooperating in those investigations
numerous pharmaceutical companies, including GSK, have violated
and producing responsive documents. In addition to these
federal or state fraud and abuse laws as a result of the way ‘average
governmental investigations, allegations concerning the nominal
wholesale price’ (AWP) and ‘wholesale acquisition cost’ (WAC)
pricing have been made by certain government payers as part of
have been determined and reported for various drugs reimbursed
the AWP litigation. The group has not entered into any nominal
under the Medicare, Medicaid and other insurance programmes.
price arrangements since December 2003.
In 2005 the Group reached a $149 million civil settlement with the
federal government to resolve allegations relating to the pricing and
marketing of Zofran and Kytril. The Group also amended its existing
corporate integrity agreement as a requirement of the settlement.
In 2007, the Group received final approval of a $70 million
nationwide private payer class action settlement relating to the
Group’s price reporting in an MDL proceeding in the US District
Court for the District of Massachusetts.178 GSK Annual Report 2008
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
44 Legal proceedings continued In October 2007, the Group announced plans to cease operations
340B Programme at the Cidra site. GSK expects to continue production of Paxil CR at
the site until that production can be transferred to another facility.
The Group is defending an action filed in federal court in the
The Group currently expects that to take place in 2009. Production
US District Court for the Northern District of California by the
of all other products at the site was discontinued by the end of
County of Santa Clara and two other counties, which seek to
2007.
represent a putative class of hospitals, clinics and other entities in
California that are eligible to receive discounted ‘ceiling prices’ on In April 2008, the FDA completed a general GMP inspection
pharmaceuticals under a federal programme known as the ‘340B which resulted in one inspectional observation. The Group has
Programme’. Plaintiffs allege that the Group and numerous other responded to the observation and has completed the corrective
pharmaceutical manufacturers have been setting ‘ceiling prices’ action commitment.
higher than allowed by law and, under the contract that governs
In April 2008, the Group advised FDA that the site had completed
the programme, and have therefore overcharged the entities in
the corrective action plan that the Group had submitted to FDA
California that are eligible to participate in the 340B Programme.
in September 2005. The Group continues to provide FDA with
The lawsuit was dismissed in 2006. It was reinstated in August
quarterly reports on the activities associated with closure of the
2008 following an appeal. It is now being actively litigated at the
facility. In July 2008, the Group successfully completed the final of
trial court level.
three annual inspections of the site by its independent third party
Paxil/Seroxat expert, as required by the Consent Decree.
Following the Group’s settlement of a lawsuit filed by the New
In October 2003, the US federal government executed a search
York State Attorney General’s office alleging failure to disclose
warrant at the Cidra facility and seized records relating to the
data on the use of Paxil in children and adolescents, similar cases,
manufacturing operations at the site.
some of which purported to be class actions, were filed by private
plaintiffs seeking to recover amounts paid for Paxil purchased In April 2005, the Group received a subpoena from the US Attorney’s
for use by patients under age 18. In 2008, a Minnesota court Office in Boston requesting production of records regarding
approved a $40 million class settlement of ensuing lawsuits manufacturing at the Cidra site, covering information that is similar to
seeking recovery on behalf of insurance companies and other that seized by the US government in Puerto Rico in 2003. Subsequently,
third-party payers for payments for prescriptions of Paxil to the Group received additional subpoenas from the government related
children and adolescents. The Group denied liability. In January to the Cidra facility. The Group is co-operating with the US Attorney’s
2009, a similar purported class action was filed in Canada seeking Office and producing the records responsive to the subpoenas. In
economic damages on behalf of individuals, third party payers addition, in July 2007, the Group learned that the US District Court for
and governmental entities that purchased Paxil for use by patients the District of Massachusetts had unsealed a complaint brought by a
under age 18. The Group likewise denied liability. former employee under the federal False Claims Act claiming monetary
damages as a result of the alleged failure of the Cidra facility to comply
The UK Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency
with GMPs in the manufacture of various products.
(MHRA) has completed its investigation into the Group’s
pharmacovigilance reporting obligations relating to clinical data for The Group is also named in two purported consumer fraud class
Seroxat/Paxil in children with no further action being taken. action lawsuits – one filed in California state court and the other in
The matter has thus been concluded. the US District Court for the District of Puerto Rico – alleging that Paxil
products were not manufactured according to GMP. Plaintiffs sought
Cidra, Puerto Rico manufacturing site
economic, statutory and punitive damages, along with a request
Following FDA inspections in October 2003 and November
for injunctive relief. In the summer of 2008, the Group reached a
2004, which resulted in observations of possible deficiencies in
tentative agreement to settle these matters, subject to court approval.
manufacturing practices at the Group’s manufacturing facility in
The settlement covers nationwide classes of Paxil CR consumer
Cidra, Puerto Rico, in March 2005 the FDA seized certain lots of
purchasers and third party payers. It provides a claims procedure
Paxil CR and Avandamet due to manufacturing issues. The FDA
for class members to receive payment only for split/defective
observations related to certain aspects of production controls,
Paxil CR tablets.
process validation and laboratory investigations. In April 2005, the
Group reached agreement with the FDA on a Consent Decree. In January 2009, the Group learned of a writ of summons filed in
The Consent Decree provides for an independent expert to review the Philadelphia Court of Common Pleas by a group of third party
manufacturing processes at the site for compliance with FDA Good payers. On information and belief, the action is related to alleged
Manufacturing Practice (GMP) requirements. As provided in the Paxil CR manufacturing issues at Cidra. The Group is currently
Consent Decree, in September 2005, the Group provided a report gaining more information on this filing and its relation to the above
to the FDA on the deficiencies identified in this review, setting out class litigation.
a corrective plan and timetable for completion.GSK Annual Report 2008 179
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
44 Legal proceedings continued Wellbutrin SR
In December 2004, January 2005 and February 2005, lawsuits,
Anti-trust
several of which purported to be class actions, were filed in the
Paxil/Seroxat US District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania against
In the paroxetine patent infringement actions brought by the the Group on behalf of direct and indirect purchasers of
Group as described under ‘Intellectual property’ above, Apotex Wellbutrin SR. The complaints allege violations of US anti-trust
and certain other companies filed anti-trust and unfair competition laws through sham litigation and fraud on the patent office
counterclaims against the Group in the US District Court for the by the Group in obtaining and enforcing patents covering
Eastern District of Pennsylvania. Wellbutrin SR. The complaints follow the introduction of generic
competition to Wellbutrin SR in April 2004, after district and
These were based on allegations that the Group monopolised
appellate court rulings that a generic manufacturer did not
a ‘market’ for Paxil by bringing allegedly sham patent litigation
infringe the Group’s patents. The parties are involved in discovery
and allegedly abusing the regulatory procedures for the listing
and the Group has filed a motion for summary judgement, which
of patents in the FDA Orange Book. Whilst the Apotex matter
remains pending.
remains in the discovery stage, the matters with the other
companies have been resolved. Secondary wholesaler
In July 2006, RxUSA Wholesale, Inc., a ‘secondary wholesaler’,
In November 2000, the FTC staff advised the Group that they
filed suit against the Group and many other pharmaceutical
were conducting a non-public investigation to determine if the
manufacturers and wholesalers in the US District Court for
Group was violating Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission
the Eastern District of New York. The complaint alleges that
Act by ‘monopolising or attempting to monopolise’ the
the defendants engaged in a conspiracy to refuse to supply
‘market’ for paroxetine hydrochloride by preventing generic
pharmaceutical products to RxUSA in violation of federal and
competition to Paxil and requested the Group to submit certain
state anti-trust laws. The Group’s motion to dismiss the complaint
information in connection with that investigation. In October
remains pending.
2003, the FTC closed its investigation on the basis of its
findings that no further action was warranted. Following public Wellbutrin XL
reference to the FTC investigation regarding Paxil, a number of As an outgrowth of those intellectual property matters discussed
governmental and private civil actions and claims were initiated above with respect to Wellbutrin XL, actions have been filed
in the USA. All US matters with the exception of the above- against Biovail and GSK by purported classes of direct and indirect
referenced Apotex matter have been resolved. purchasers who allege unlawful monopolization and other anti-
trust violations related to the enforcement of Biovail’s Wellbutrin
In October 2005, the Competition Directorate of the European
XL patents and the filing, by Biovail, of citizen petitions. The Group
Commission initiated an inspection concerning allegations that
has filed a motion to dismiss, which remains pending.
the Group has abused a dominant position in the marketplace
concerning enforcement of its intellectual property rights, litigation Flonase
surrounding regulatory approvals and marketing of Seroxat in Purported direct and indirect purchaser class actions have been
Europe. In October 2006, the Commission made a formal request filed in the US District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania
for further information. The Group responded to this request by alleging the Group illegally maintained monopoly power in the
the end of 2006. ‘market’ for Flonase and charged plaintiffs supra-competitive
prices. The predicate for these allegations was the filing by
In January 2008, the European Commission announced an inquiry
the Group of allegedly sham citizen petitions and subsequent
into certain aspects of competition in the pharmaceutical sector
litigation. The Group has filed a motion to dismiss the complaints
and initiated inspections at the premises of a number of innovator
of the purported classes of direct and indirect purchasers.
and generic pharmaceutical companies, including the Group.
Discovery is also underway.
The Commission published a preliminary report in November 2008
based on information provided to it by innovator and generic
pharmaceutical companies. The report suggests that defensive
patenting strategies may lead to obstacles to innovation and that
innovator companies employ measures to hinder generics coming
onto the market. It is anticipated that the final report will be issued
in the second quarter of 2009. The Group continues to co-operate
with the Commission in its investigation.180 GSK Annual Report 2008
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
continued
44 Legal proceedings continued Plaintiffs subsequently amended their complaints to
assert a class action, limited solely to pharmaceutical sales
Commercial and corporate
representatives working in California, and only asserting claims
Securities class actions under California’s wage and hour laws.
In September 2005, attorneys representing a purported class of
The suits seek a variety of compensatory, punitive and statutory
purchasers of GlaxoSmithKline shares and American Depositary
damages. The Group moved for summary judgement dismissing
Shares (ADS) filed a second amended securities class action
the claims of the putative class representatives on the ground
complaint against the Group in the US District Court for the
that they were exempt employees. The Court held that there are
Southern District of New York, alleging that the Group violated
appeals pending in the United States Court of Appeals for the
US securities laws through failure to disclose unfavourable clinical
Ninth Circuit in cases involving other manufacturers ‘with virtually
data from studies on Paxil, misrepresentation of the remaining
the same factual and legal arguments’. It therefore deferred ruling
patent protection for Paxil and Augmentin and violation of the
on the summary judgement motion and stayed any further activity
Federal False Claims Act on the basis of the Group’s recent AWP
in the case until the appellate court rules in at least one of the
settlement with the government. In October 2006, the judge
other companies’ pending cases.
entered an order dismissing the complaint, which was upheld by
the US Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in March 2008. A third case, filed in the US District Court for the District of
This matter has now concluded. Arizona in November 2008, seeks to establish a nationwide
collective action on behalf of the entire Group’s US pharmaceutical
In November 2007, attorneys purporting to represent a class
sales representatives on the ground that those representatives
of purchasers of GlaxoSmithKline shares and ADS filed an
were not ‘exempt’ employees under the US Fair Labor Standards
amended consolidated complaint against the Group and senior
Act. Plaintiffs seek double damages for all overtime allegedly
officers in the US District Court for the Southern District of New
worked by the Group’s pharmaceutical sales representatives over
York. It alleged that the Group and the individual defendants
a three year period.
violated US securities laws and artificially inflated the price of
GlaxoSmithKline’s stock by misleading investors about the safety Environmental matters
of Avandia. The amended consolidated complaint also alleges GSK has been notified of its potential responsibility relating to past
that several current and former senior officers and members of operations and its past waste disposal practices at certain sites,
the Group engaged in insider trading. A motion to dismiss the primarily in the USA. Some of these matters are the subject of
complaint has been filed on behalf of the Group and the individual litigation, including proceedings initiated by the US federal or state
defendants. In May 2008, the District Court entered an order governments for waste disposal, site remediation costs and tort
dismissing the case as to all defendants. Plaintiffs filed an appeal actions brought by private parties.
with the US Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. That appeal
GSK has been advised that it may be a responsible party at
remains pending.
approximately 29 sites, of which 14 appear on the National Priority
Relenza List created by the Comprehensive Environmental Response
In May 2004, Biota Holdings Limited filed a complaint in the Compensation and Liability Act (Superfund). These proceedings
Victorian Supreme Court in Australia alleging that the Group seek to require the operators of hazardous waste facilities,
had failed to fulfil its development, promotion and production transporters of waste to the sites and generators of hazardous
obligations for zanamivir (Relenza) under the terms of the licence waste disposed of at the sites to clean up the sites or to reimburse
agreement between the Group and Biota. Biota sought substantial the government for cleanup costs. In most instances, GSK is
damages. At a mediation ordered by the Court in July 2008 involved as an alleged generator of hazardous waste. Although
the dispute was settled without any admission of liability. GSK there are a few sites where GSK is involved as a current or former
continues to sell Relenza pursuant to the licence agreement. operator of the facility. Although Superfund provides that the
defendants are jointly and severally liable for cleanup costs, these
Wage and hour claims
proceedings are frequently resolved on the basis of the nature and
In December 2006, two purported class actions were filed against
quantity of waste disposed of by the generator at the site. GSK’s
the Group on behalf of the entire Group’s US pharmaceutical sales
proportionate liability for cleanup costs has been substantially
representatives. These actions, which were filed in or transferred to
determined for about 20 of the sites referred to above.
the US District Court for the Central District of California, initially
alleged that those representatives are not ‘exempt’ employees GSK’s potential liability varies greatly from site to site. While the
under California law and/or the US Fair Labor Standards Act and cost of investigation, study and remediation at such sites could,
are consequently entitled to overtime pay, among other things. over time, be substantial, GSK routinely accrues amounts related
to its share of the liability for such matters.GSK Annual Report 2008 181
Financial statements GlaxoSmithKline plc
Directors’ statement of responsibilities
Directors’ statement of responsibilities in relation Disclosure of information to auditors
to the company’s financial statements
The Directors in office at the date of this Report have each
confirmed that:
The Directors are responsible for preparing the parent company
financial statements and the Remuneration Report in accordance • so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit
with applicable law and regulations. information of which the company’s auditors are unaware; and
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial • he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have
statements for each financial year. Under that law the Directors taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any
have prepared the parent company financial statements in relevant audit information and to establish that the company’s
accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting auditors are aware of that information.
Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance
Practice). The parent company financial statements are required
with the provisions of Section 234 ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the
company as at the end of the financial period.
Going concern basis
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable
required to:
expectation that the company has adequate resources to continue
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason,
them consistently; they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the
financial statements.
• make judgements and estimates that are reasonable
and prudent;
The Combined Code
• state that with regard to the parent company financial The Board considers that GlaxoSmithKline plc applies the principles
statements that applicable UK Accounting Standards have been of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance of the Financial
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and Reporting Council, as described under ‘Corporate governance’
explained in the financial statements. on pages 60 to 77, and has complied with its provisions except as
described on page 76.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting
records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the As required by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services
financial position of the company and to enable them to ensure Authority, the auditors have considered the Directors’ statement
that the parent company financial statements comply with the of compliance in relation to those points of the Combined Code
Companies Acts 1985 and 2006. They are also responsible for which are specified for their review.
taking reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the company
and ensuring the operation of systems of internal control, and
hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection
of fraud and other irregularities.
The parent company financial statements for the year ended
31st December 2008, comprising the balance sheet for the year
Sir Christopher Gent
ended 31st December 2008 and supporting notes, are set out Chairman
on pages 183 and 186 of this report. 3rd March 2009
The responsibilities of the auditors in relation to the parent
company financial statements are set out in the Independent
Auditors’ report (page 182).
The financial statements for the year ended 31st December 2008
are included in the Annual Report, which is published in hard copy
printed form and made available on the website. The Directors
are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Annual
Report on the company’s website in accordance with UK legislation
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial
statements. Access to the website is available from outside the UK,
where comparable legislation may be different.182 GSK Annual Report 2008
Financial statements GlaxoSmithKline plc
Independent Auditors’ report
to the members of GlaxoSmithKline plc
We have audited the parent company financial statements of Basis of audit opinion
GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year ended 31st December 2008
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards
which comprise the company balance sheet - UK GAAP, and the
on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
related notes. These parent company financial statements have
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant
been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein. We
to the amounts and disclosures in the parent company financial
have also audited the information in the Remuneration Report
statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited.
that is described as having been audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the parent
of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year ended 31st December 2008. company financial statements, and of whether the accounting
policies are appropriate to the company’s circumstances, consistently
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors applied and adequately disclosed.
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the
Directors’ Remuneration Report and the parent company financial information and explanations which we considered necessary in
statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable
Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted assurance that the parent company financial statements and
Accounting Practice) are set out in the Directors’ statement of the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited are free
responsibilities. from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other
irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial
the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the
statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited
parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’
in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and
Remuneration Report to be audited.
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). This report,
including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the
Opinion
company’s members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of
the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose. We do not, In our opinion:
in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other
• the parent company financial statements give a true and fair
purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or
view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted
into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our
Accounting Practice, of the state of the company’s affairs as at
prior consent in writing.
31st December 2008;
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company
• the parent company financial statements and the part of the
financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly
company financial statements and the part of the Remuneration
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985; and
Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance
with the Companies Act 1985. We also report to you whether in • the information given in the Report of the Directors is consistent
our opinion the information given in the Report of the Directors is with the parent company financial statements.
consistent with the parent company financial statements.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all London
the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if 3rd March 2009
information specified by law regarding directors’ remuneration
and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and
consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company
financial statements. The other information comprises only the
Chairman and CEO Summary, Our strategy, Report of the Directors
including the unaudited part of the Remuneration Report, Directors’
statement of responsibilities and Shareholder information. We
consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any
apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent
company financial statements. Our responsibilities do not extend to
any other information.GSK Annual Report 2008 183
Financial statements GlaxoSmithKline plc
Company balance sheet - UK GAAP
at 31st December 2008
2008 2007
Notes £m £m
Fixed assets - investments D 19,560 19,505
Debtors E 965 304
Cash at bank 8 6
Current assets 973 310
Creditors: amounts due within one year F (5,303) (6,688)
Net current liabilities (4,330) (6,378)
Net assets 15,230 13,127
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital G 1,415 1,503
Share premium account G 1,326 1,266
Other reserves H 1,216 1,071
Profit and loss account H 11,273 9,287
Equity shareholders’ funds 15,230 13,127
Approved by the Board on 3rd March 2009.
Sir Christopher Gent
Chairman184 GSK Annual Report 2008
Financial statements GlaxoSmithKline plc
Notes to the company balance sheet - UK GAAP
A Presentation of the financial statements Expenditure
Description of business Expenditure is recognised in respect of goods and services received
GlaxoSmithKline plc is the parent company of GSK, a major global when supplied in accordance with contractual terms. Provision is
healthcare group which is engaged in the creation and discovery, made when an obligation exists for a future liability in respect of a
development, manufacture and marketing of pharmaceutical past event and where the amount of the obligation can be
products, including vaccines, over-the-counter (OTC) medicines reliably estimated.
and health-related consumer products. Investments in subsidiary companies
Preparation of financial statements Investments in subsidiary companies are held at cost less any
The financial statements, which are prepared on a going concern provision for impairment.
basis, are drawn up in accordance with UK generally accepted Impairment of investments
accounting principles (UK GAAP) and with UK accounting The carrying value of investments are reviewed for impairment
presentation as at 31st December 2008, with comparative figures when there is an indication that the investment might be impaired.
as at 31st December 2007. Where appropriate, comparative Any provision resulting from an impairment review is charged to
figures are reclassified to ensure a consistent presentation with the income statement in the year concerned.
current year information.
Share based payments
As permitted by s.230 of the Companies Act 1985, the profit and The issuance by the company to its subsidiaries of a grant over
loss account of the company is not presented in this Annual Report. the company’s options, represents additional capital contributions
Accounting convention and standards by the company in its subsidiaries. An additional investment in
The balance sheet has been prepared using the historical cost subsidiaries results in a corresponding increase in shareholders’
convention and complies with applicable UK accounting standards. equity. The additional capital contribution is based on the fair
value of the grant issued, allocated over the underlying grant’s
Accounting principles and policies
vesting period.
The preparation of the balance sheet in conformity with generally
Taxation
accepted accounting principles requires management
to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid
amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent applying tax rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted
assets and liabilities at the date of the balance sheet. Actual by the balance sheet date.
amounts could differ from those estimates. The company accounts for taxation which is deferred or
The balance sheet has been prepared in accordance with the accelerated by reason of timing differences which have originated
company’s accounting policies approved by the Board and but not reversed by the balance sheet date. Deferred tax assets are
described in Note B. only recognised to the extent that they are considered recoverable
against future taxable profits.
B Accounting policies
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are
Foreign currency transactions expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences
Foreign currency transactions are recorded at the exchange rate are expected to reverse. Deferred tax liabilities and assets are
ruling on the date of transaction, or at the forward rate if hedged not discounted.
by a forward exchange contract. Foreign currency assets and
Financial guarantees
liabilities are translated at rates of exchange ruling at the balance
Liabilities relating to guarantees issued by the company on behalf
sheet date, or at the forward rate.
of its subsidiaries are held at fair value and amortised over the life
Dividends paid and received of the guarantee.
Dividends paid and received are included in the accounts in the
period in which the related dividends are actually paid or received. C Operating profit
A fee of £11,440 (2007 – £11,000) relating to the audit of the
company has been charged in operating profit.GSK Annual Report 2008 185
Financial statements GlaxoSmithKline plc
Notes to the company balance sheet - UK GAAP
continued
D Fixed assets
2008 2007
£m £m
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Services Unlimited 613 613
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (One) Limited 18 18
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Holdings Limited 17,888 17,888
18,519 18,519
Capital contribution relating to share based payments 1,041 986
19,560 19,505
E Debtors
2008 2007
£m £m
Amounts due within one year:
UK Corporation tax recoverable 268 279
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 98 12
366 291
Amounts due after more than one year:
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 599 13
965 304
F Creditors
2008 2007
£m £m
Amounts due within one year:
Bank overdraft 8 6
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 4,625 6,659
Other creditors 670 23
5,303 6,688
The company has guaranteed debt issued by certain subsidiary companies for which it receives an annual fee from the subsidiary. During
the year the company guaranteed $9 billion of debt issued under the US shelf registration statement of its subsidiary GSK Capital Inc.
In aggregate, the company has issued guarantees over £8 billion of debt instruments.
The amount due from the subsidiary companies in relation to these guarantee fees will be recovered over the life of the bonds and are
disclosed within debtors (see Note E).186 GSK Annual Report 2008
Financial statements GlaxoSmithKline plc
Notes to the company balance sheet - UK GAAP
continued
G Share capital and share premium account
Share
Ordinary Shares of 25p each Premium
Number £m £m
Share capital authorised
At 31st December 2007 10,000,000,000 2,500
At 31st December 2008 10,000,000,000 2,500
Share capital issued and fully paid
At 1st January 2007 5,991,601,848 1,498 858
Issued under share option schemes 37,307,678 9 408
Purchased and cancelled (16,322,500) (4) –
At 31st December 2007 6,012,587,026 1,503 1,266
Issued under share option schemes 5,640,119 2 60
Purchased and cancelled (356,910,908) (90) –
At 31st December 2008 5,661,316,237 1,415 1,326
31st December 31st December
2008 2007
Number (‘000) of shares issuable under outstanding options 220,459 218,182
Number (‘000) of unissued shares not under option 4,118,225 3,769,231
At 31st December 2008, of the issued share capital, 128,969,260 shares were held in the ESOP Trust, 474,194,158 shares were held as
Treasury shares and 5,058,152,819 shares were in free issue. All issued shares are fully paid. The nominal, carrying and market values
of the shares held in the ESOP Trust are disclosed in Note 42, ‘Employee share schemes’. Share capital purchased and cancelled in 2008
includes the cancellation of 30 million of previously acquired Treasury shares.
H Reserves
Other Profit and
reserves loss account Total
£m £m £m
At 1st January 2007 1,008 6,172 7,180
Profit attributable to shareholders – 9,658 9,658
Dividends to shareholders – (2,793) (2,793)
Ordinary Shares purchased and cancelled 4 (213) (209)
Ordinary Shares purchased and held as Treasury shares – (3,537) (3,537)
Capital contribution relating to share based payments 59 – 59
At 31st December 2007 1,071 9,287 10,358
Profit attributable to shareholders – 8,621 8,621
Dividends to shareholders – (2,929) (2,929)
Ordinary Shares purchased and cancelled 90 (3,706) (3,616)
Capital contribution relating to share based payments 55 – 55
At 31st December 2008 1,216 11,273 12,489
The profit of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year was £8,621 million (2007 – £9,658 million), which after dividends of £2,929 million
(2007 – £2,793 million), gave a retained profit of £5,692 million (2007 – profit of £6,865 million). After the cost of shares purchased
and cancelled of £3,706 million (2007 – £213 million) and the cost of shares purchased and held as Treasury shares of £nil million
(2007 – £3,537 million), the profit and loss account reserve at 31st December 2008 stood at £11,273 million (2007 – £9,287 million),
of which £4,096 million is unrealised (2007 – £4,096 million).GSK Annual Report 2008 187
Shareholder information
The shareholder information section includes the financial record Financial record 188
presenting historical information prepared in accordance with Quarterly trend 188
IFRS as adopted by the European Union, and also with IFRS as Five year record 196
issued by the IASB, and the full product development pipeline. The Product development pipeline 199
section also discusses shareholder return in the form of dividends
Shareholder information 203
and share price movements and provides other information for
Share price and dividends 203
shareholders.
Nature of trading market 204
Annual General Meeting 204
The share price movements and dividends are shown by the
Investor relations and Registrar 205
graphs below. Details of the price movements and dividends are
Taxation information for shareholders 206
pages 203 to 204.
Glossary of terms 207
Index 208
Share price
Dividends per share
£ US$
16 65 pence US$
15 60 60 3.0
14 55 50 2.5
13 50 40 2.0
12 45 30 1.5
11 40 20 1.0
10 35 10 0.5
9 30 0 0
01/01/06 31/12/06 31/12/07 31/12/08 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
•• U UKK s hsahraer ep rpicreic e • • U SU ASD ARD pRr ipceri c(Ue S(U$)S$) •• U UKK d idviivdiednednsd ps epre srh sahrea re • •US U dSiv didievinddesn pdes rp AeDr ASDS
Analysis of shareholdings at 31st December 2008
Number of % of total % of total Number of
accounts accounts shares shares
Holding of shares
Up to 1,000 120,998 71 1 43,520,230
1,001 to 5,000 38,292 23 1 81,859,238
5,001 to 100,000 9,005 5 2 131,297,666
100,001 to 1,000,000 931 1 6 333,033,484
Over 1,000,000 414 – 90 5,071,605,619
Totals 169,640 100 100 5,661,316,237
Held by
Nominee companies 29,807 18 72 4,056,441,061
Investment and trust companies 54 – – 10,572,576
Insurance companies 12 – – 26,265
Individuals and other corporate bodies 139,765 82 6 329,462,391
BNY (Nominees) Limited 1 – 14 790,619,786
Held as Treasury shares by GlaxoSmithKline 1 – 8 474,194,158
Totals 169,640 100 100 5,661,316,237
The Bank of New York Mellon’s holding held through BNY (Nominees) Limited represents the company’s ADR programme, whereby each
ADS represents two Ordinary Shares of 25p nominal value. At 24th February 2009, BNY (Nominees) Limited held 784,505,385 Ordinary
Shares representing 15.12% of the issued share capital at that date.
At 24th February 2009, the number of holders of shares in the USA was 1,103 with holdings of 1,336,503 shares, and the number of
registered holders of the ADR was 35,412 with holdings of 392,252,669 ADR. Certain of these shares and ADR were held by brokers
or other nominees. As a result the number of holders of record or registered holders in the USA is not representative of the number of
beneficial holders or of the residence of beneficial holders.188 GSK Annual Report 2008
Shareholder information
Financial record
Quarterly trend
An unaudited analysis of the Group results and pharmaceutical sales by therapeutic area is provided by quarter in Sterling for the financial year 2008.
Income statement – total 12 months 2008 Q4 2008 Q3 2008 Q2 2008 Q1 2008
£m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Turnover – Pharmaceuticals 20,381 (3) 6 5,803 (4) 15 4,888 (4) 6 4,923 (2) 3 4,767 (4) –
– Consumer Healthcare 3,971 3 12 1,107 2 17 994 3 12 951 (1) 4 919 8 14
Total turnover 24,352 (3) 7 6,910 (3) 16 5,882 (3) 7 5,874 (2) 4 5,686 (3) 2
Cost of sales (6,415) 13 21 (1,953) 10 19 (1,590) 20 29 (1,513) 19 25 (1,359) 6 10
Selling, general and administrative (7,656) 2 10 (2,296) 9 26 (1,819) 4 12 (1,796) (7) (2) (1,745) – 4
Research and development (3,681) 4 11 (1,212) 4 16 (869) 6 13 (820) 1 4 (780) 5 7
Other operating income 541 133 53 194 161
Operating profit 7,141 (20) (6) 1,582 (35) – 1,657 (26) (13) 1,939 (7) 1 1,963 (13) (9)
Finance income 313 37 98 96 82
Finance costs (843) (241) (218) (214) (170)
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures 48 18 16 15 (1)
Profit before taxation 6,659 (24) (11) 1,396 (44) (9) 1,553 (31) (17) 1,836 (11) (3) 1,874 (17) (13)
Taxation (1,947) (379) (497) (529) (542)
Tax rate % 29.2% 27.1% 32.0% 28.8% 28.9%
Profit after taxation for the period 4,712 (25) (11) 1,017 (42) (5 ) 1,056 (35) (22) 1,307 (11) (4) 1,332 (17) (13)
Profit attributable to minority interests 110 35 29 21 25
Profit attributable to shareholders 4,602 982 1,027 1,286 1,307
Basic earnings per share (pence) 88.6p (21) (6) 19.3p (40) (2) 20.1p (30) (15) 24.6p (6) 3 24.4p (14) (10)
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 88.1p 19.2p 20.0p 24.4p 24.2p
Income statement – results before major restructuring
Turnover – Pharmaceuticals 20,381 (3) 6 5,803 (4) 15 4,888 (4) 6 4,923 (2) 3 4,767 (4) –
– Consumer Healthcare 3,971 3 12 1,107 2 17 994 3 12 951 (1) 4 919 8 14
Total turnover 24,352 (3) 7 6,910 (3) 16 5,882 (3) 7 5,874 (2) 4 5,686 (3) 2
Cost of sales (5,776) 4 11 (1,642) (2) 7 (1,460) 10 19 (1,375) 8 13 (1,299) 1 5
Selling, general and administrative (7,352) – 8 (2,205) (14) 31 (1,662) (5) 3 (1,765) (8) (4) (1,720) (2) 3
Research and development (3,506) 2 8 (1,090) (1) 14 (834) 2 8 (802) (1) 2 (780) 5 7
Other operating income 541 133 53 194 161
Operating profit 8,259 (10) 4 2,106 (21) 9 1,979 (10) 4 2,126 2 10 2,048 (9) (5)
Finance income 313 37 98 96 82
Finance costs (838) (238) (218) (214) (168)
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures 48 18 16 15 (1)
Profit before taxation 7,782 (14) – 1,923 (28) 3 1,875 (14) 0 2,023 (2) 7 1,961 (13) (8)
Taxation (2,231) (532) (559) (577) (563)
Tax rate % 28.7% 27.7% 29.8% 28.5% 28.7%
Profit after taxation for the period 5,551 (14) – 1,391 (27) 4 1,316 (16) (2) 1,446 (2) 7 1,398 (13) (9)
Profit attributable to minority interests 110 35 29 21 25
Profit attributable to shareholders 5,441 1,356 1,287 1,425 1,373
Adjusted earnings per share (pence) 104.7p (9) 6 26.7p (23) 9 25.2p (9) 6 27.2p 5 13 25.6p (9) (5)
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 104.1p 26.6p 25.0p 27.0p 25.5p
The calculation of results before major restructuring is described in Note 1 to the financial statements, ‘Presentation of the
financial statements’.GSK Annual Report 2008 189
Shareholder information
Financial record
continued
Quarterly trend
An unaudited analysis of the Group results and pharmaceutical sales by therapeutic area is provided by quarter in Sterling for the financial year 2008.
Income statement – total 12 months 2008 Q4 2008 Q3 2008 Q2 2008 Q1 2008
£m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Turnover – Pharmaceuticals 20,381 (3) 6 5,803 (4) 15 4,888 (4) 6 4,923 (2) 3 4,767 (4) –
– Consumer Healthcare 3,971 3 12 1,107 2 17 994 3 12 951 (1) 4 919 8 14
Total turnover 24,352 (3) 7 6,910 (3) 16 5,882 (3) 7 5,874 (2) 4 5,686 (3) 2
Cost of sales (6,415) 13 21 (1,953) 10 19 (1,590) 20 29 (1,513) 19 25 (1,359) 6 10
Selling, general and administrative (7,656) 2 10 (2,296) 9 26 (1,819) 4 12 (1,796) (7) (2) (1,745) – 4
Research and development (3,681) 4 11 (1,212) 4 16 (869) 6 13 (820) 1 4 (780) 5 7
Other operating income 541 133 53 194 161
Operating profit 7,141 (20) (6) 1,582 (35) – 1,657 (26) (13) 1,939 (7) 1 1,963 (13) (9)
Finance income 313 37 98 96 82
Finance costs (843) (241) (218) (214) (170)
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures 48 18 16 15 (1)
Profit before taxation 6,659 (24) (11) 1,396 (44) (9) 1,553 (31) (17) 1,836 (11) (3) 1,874 (17) (13)
Taxation (1,947) (379) (497) (529) (542)
Tax rate % 29.2% 27.1% 32.0% 28.8% 28.9%
Profit after taxation for the period 4,712 (25) (11) 1,017 (42) (5 ) 1,056 (35) (22) 1,307 (11) (4) 1,332 (17) (13)
Profit attributable to minority interests 110 35 29 21 25
Profit attributable to shareholders 4,602 982 1,027 1,286 1,307
Basic earnings per share (pence) 88.6p (21) (6) 19.3p (40) (2) 20.1p (30) (15) 24.6p (6) 3 24.4p (14) (10)
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 88.1p 19.2p 20.0p 24.4p 24.2p
Income statement – results before major restructuring
Turnover – Pharmaceuticals 20,381 (3) 6 5,803 (4) 15 4,888 (4) 6 4,923 (2) 3 4,767 (4) –
– Consumer Healthcare 3,971 3 12 1,107 2 17 994 3 12 951 (1) 4 919 8 14
Total turnover 24,352 (3) 7 6,910 (3) 16 5,882 (3) 7 5,874 (2) 4 5,686 (3) 2
Cost of sales (5,776) 4 11 (1,642) (2) 7 (1,460) 10 19 (1,375) 8 13 (1,299) 1 5
Selling, general and administrative (7,352) – 8 (2,205) (14) 31 (1,662) (5) 3 (1,765) (8) (4) (1,720) (2) 3
Research and development (3,506) 2 8 (1,090) (1) 14 (834) 2 8 (802) (1) 2 (780) 5 7
Other operating income 541 133 53 194 161
Operating profit 8,259 (10) 4 2,106 (21) 9 1,979 (10) 4 2,126 2 10 2,048 (9) (5)
Finance income 313 37 98 96 82
Finance costs (838) (238) (218) (214) (168)
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures 48 18 16 15 (1)
Profit before taxation 7,782 (14) – 1,923 (28) 3 1,875 (14) 0 2,023 (2) 7 1,961 (13) (8)
Taxation (2,231) (532) (559) (577) (563)
Tax rate % 28.7% 27.7% 29.8% 28.5% 28.7%
Profit after taxation for the period 5,551 (14) – 1,391 (27) 4 1,316 (16) (2) 1,446 (2) 7 1,398 (13) (9)
Profit attributable to minority interests 110 35 29 21 25
Profit attributable to shareholders 5,441 1,356 1,287 1,425 1,373
Adjusted earnings per share (pence) 104.7p (9) 6 26.7p (23) 9 25.2p (9) 6 27.2p 5 13 25.6p (9) (5)
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 104.1p 26.6p 25.0p 27.0p 25.5p
The calculation of results before major restructuring is described in Note 1 to the financial statements, ‘Presentation of the
financial statements’.190 GSK Annual Report 2008
Shareholder information
Financial record
continued
Quarterly trend
Pharmaceutical turnover – total Group
Q4 2008 Q3 2008 Q2 2008 Q1 2008
£m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Respiratory 1,731 7 27 1,348 3 14 1,383 4 10 1,355 6 11
Seretide/Advair 1,237 8 29 982 7 18 964 6 11 954 10 14
Flixotide/Flovent 208 (1) 19 149 (4) 6 158 (3) 5 162 (1) 5
Serevent 70 (18) (1) 60 (14) (5) 66 (11) (6) 67 (5) 3
Veramyst 25 >100 >100 17 >100 >100 17 89 89 13 – –
Flixonase/Flonase 42 9 31 33 (39) (33) 65 13 18 46 (33) (27)
Anti-virals 924 (4) 17 792 1 11 751 (5) – 739 (8) (4)
HIV 417 (3) 16 377 (5) 5 361 (6) (1) 358 (5) –
Epzicom/Kivexa 129 20 43 110 24 38 104 24 32 99 25 32
Combivir 114 (13) 6 110 (13) (4) 104 (15) (11) 105 (13) (9)
Trizivir 59 (14) 5 49 (20) (11) 50 (23) (17) 54 (16) (13)
Agenerase, Lexiva 47 6 31 40 (3) 8 38 9 15 35 (3) –
Epivir 36 (22) (3) 35 (16) (8) 34 (20) (15) 34 (22 ) (17 )
Ziagen 28 (18) – 27 (11) (4) 26 (7) (4) 25 (8 ) (4 )
Valtrex 366 16 44 303 21 32 277 19 23 249 9 11
Zeffix 53 2 26 42 (10) – 47 – 7 46 8 15
Relenza 13 (85) (83) 12 (57) (57) 3 (97) (96) 29 (71) (68)
Central nervous system 665 (43) (26) 585 (38) (29) 818 (4) (1) 829 3 4
Lamictal 177 (57) (41) 136 (59) (51) 323 18 19 290 16 16
Imigran/Imitrex 161 (34) (14) 188 5 14 173 2 4 165 (1) (1)
Seroxat/Paxil 154 (21) 2 112 (23) (13) 127 (18) (9) 121 (15) (10)
Wellbutrin 66 (63) (49) 53 (67) (61) 97 (27) (27) 126 (3) (5)
Requip 58 (53) (39) 56 (43) (36) 58 (37) (31) 94 15 18
Treximet 13 – – 4 – – 8 – – – – –
Cardiovascular and urogenital 548 51 84 466 12 23 435 (5) (1) 398 (12) (9)
Avodart 120 19 45 102 29 42 92 33 37 85 30 35
Lovaza 98 >100 >100 75 – – 67 – – 50 – –
Coreg 61 >100 >100 50 (69) (66) 44 (78) (78) 48 (77) (78)
Coreg CR 50 21 52 41 19 32 39 >100 >100 35 >100 >100
Coreg IR 11 >100 >100 9 (93) (92) 5 (97) (97) 13 (94) (94)
Fraxiparine 58 (2) 14 59 22 44 58 13 29 51 (4) 9
Arixtra 55 59 90 44 56 76 36 31 38 35 70 75
Vesicare 23 36 64 18 31 38 16 25 33 14 36 27
Levitra 17 18 55 16 15 23 13 18 18 14 – –
Metabolic 345 (11) 8 289 (11) (2) 285 (35) (32) 272 (45) (43)
Avandia products 229 (17) (1) 191 (23) (15) 194 (46) (44) 191 (56) (54)
Avandia 147 (24) (8) 118 (29) (23) 125 (51) (50) 122 (62) (61)
Avandamet 70 (8) 9 63 (7) 5 61 (33) (28) 62 (29) (25)
Bonviva/Boniva 76 23 46 56 24 37 56 47 56 49 50 53
Anti-bacterials 397 (7) 8 340 3 13 329 (1) 6 363 (2) 5
Augmentin 159 (5) 9 143 10 22 129 (1) 8 156 (1) 6
Altabax 5 – 25 5 >100 >100 4 (20) (20) 2 – –
Oncology and emesis 138 12 38 128 12 23 117 (11) (7) 113 (27) (23)
Hycamtin 41 10 32 34 3 13 35 18 25 30 (3) -
Zofran 17 (41) (23) 33 (9) 3 31 (49) (44) 29 (69) (67)
Tykerb 35 58 84 26 44 63 22 75 83 19 >100 >100
Vaccines 796 8 26 730 12 23 577 34 45 436 10 18
Hepatitis 185 5 26 174 11 23 167 23 30 139 16 23
Infanrix/Pediarix 194 19 42 168 9 23 167 13 24 153 6 14
Fluarix, FluLaval 66 12 35 144 11 20 5 25 25 – – –
Flu-prepandemic 17 (86) (86) 10 (52) (52) 34 – – 5 – –
Cervarix 55 >100 >100 43 >100 >100 15 – – 12 – –
Rotarix 66 59 69 39 57 70 35 >100 >100 27 79 93
Boostrix 17 – 31 22 (19) (15) 18 21 29 13 (8) –
Other 259 (11) 2 210 (3) 7 228 (6) 1 262 12 17
5,803 (4) 15 4,888 (4) 6 4,923 (2) 3 4,767 (4) –
Pharmaceutical turnover includes co-promotion income.GSK Annual Report 2008 191
Shareholder information
Financial record
continued
Quarterly trend
Pharmaceutical turnover – USA
Q4 2008 Q3 2008 Q2 2008 Q1 2008
£m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Respiratory 852 9 35 636 3 12 616 4 4 616 8 6
Seretide/Advair 674 6 31 515 5 14 473 2 1 499 10 9
Flixotide/Flovent 103 2 27 71 (1) 6 68 5 5 75 7 6
Serevent 22 (5) 16 17 (11) (6) 16 (11) (11) 17 (11) (11)
Veramyst 18 75 >100 12 >100 >100 14 56 56 12 – –
Flixonase/Flonase 8 >100 >100 7 (67) (67) 33 32 32 4 (84) (84)
Anti-virals 500 3 28 398 5 13 355 (2) (3) 347 (9) (10)
HIV 193 (1) 25 153 (11) (4) 142 (10) (11) 152 (6) (7)
Epzicom/Kivexa 55 19 49 44 21 29 39 6 8 40 17 14
Combivir 53 (4) 18 41 (26) (18) 41 (18) (18) 45 (8) (10)
Trizivir 32 (11) 14 24 (21) (14) 23 (25) (28) 27 (16) (16)
Agenerase, Lexiva 26 11 37 21 (5) 5 18 – (5) 18 (10) (10)
Epivir 14 (15) 8 11 (29) (21) 11 (8) (8) 11 (21) (21)
Ziagen 14 (9) 27 10 (17) (17) 11 – – 10 (9 ) (9 )
Valtrex 279 24 54 223 28 38 195 22 21 173 7 5
Zeffix 4 33 33 4 (25) – 4 33 33 3 – –
Relenza 5 (93) (88) 5 (58) (58) 2 (94) (94) 8 (82) (82)
Central nervous system 353 (61) (45) 321 (52) (46) 547 (6) (7) 594 7 5
Lamictal 119 (68) (52) 84 (71) (63) 268 22 21 240 22 20
Imigran/Imitrex 123 (40) (20) 154 8 16 139 2 2 134 – (1)
Seroxat/Paxil 19 (67) (51) 13 (67) (61) 16 (47) (53) 31 (16) (16)
Wellbutrin 56 (69) (55) 44 (72) (66) 89 (30) (30) 121 (4) (5)
Requip 11 (92) (83) 13 (81) (78) 18 (69) (69) 60 9 7
Treximet 13 – – 4 – – 8 – –
Cardiovascular and urogenital 344 >100 >100 280 9 17 251 (14) (14) 232 (22) (23)
Avodart 75 22 53 63 29 40 55 38 38 49 22 20
Lovaza 98 >100 >100 75 – – 66 – – 50 – –
Coreg 60 >100 >100 49 (69) (66) 43 (78) (78) 48 (78) (78)
Coreg CR 49 18 44 41 19 32 38 >100 >100 35 >100 >100
Coreg IR 11 >100 >100 8 (93) (93) 5 (97) (97) 13 (94) (94)
Fraxiparine – – – – – – – – – – – –
Arixtra 31 63 94 22 43 57 16 21 14 19 73 73
Vesicare 23 36 64 18 31 38 16 25 33 14 36 27
Levitra 16 9 45 15 17 25 13 18 18 13 – –
Metabolic 182 (13) 10 136 (22) (15) 139 (44) (45) 133 (57) (58)
Avandia products 132 (21) 2 99 (28) (24) 104 (54) (54) 99 (66) (66)
Avandia 89 (29) (10) 67 (33) (27) 72 (57) (57) 71 (69) (69)
Avandamet 34 – 31 26 (14) (10) 25 (44) (44) 24 (49) (49)
Bonviva/Boniva 51 8 34 36 18 29 36 38 38 33 48 43
Anti-bacterials 50 (23) (4) 40 (10) (2) 39 (20) (20) 45 (13) (15)
Augmentin 15 (13) – 9 (36) (18) 8 (47) (53) 17 (29) (29)
Altabax 5 – 25 4 100 100 4 (20) (20) 2 – –
Oncology and emesis 64 11 42 64 13 23 57 (24) (24) 58 (41) (42)
Hycamtin 25 18 47 20 – 11 19 19 19 17 (5) (11)
Zofran (10) (57) (43) 6 50 50 4 (84) (84) 3 (95) (95)
Tykerb 14 (8) 17 12 – 9 11 20 10 10 >100 >100
Vaccines 178 (31) (13) 218 (13) (8) 124 19 18 109 34 33
Hepatitis 74 6 37 82 17 24 66 43 40 53 66 66
Infanrix/Pediarix 56 – 27 56 (10) (3) 49 (4) (4) 51 21 19
Fluarix, FluLaval 22 (27) – 63 (19) (18) – – – – – –
Flu-prepandemic 1 (99) (99) – – – – – –
Cervarix – – – – – – – – – – – –
Rotarix 17 – – 4 – – – – – – – –
Boostrix 8 – 33 13 (40) (35) 9 29 29 5 (29) (29)
Other 3 (94) (91) 8 >100 >100 1 (67) (89) 4 (91) (88)
2,526 (13) 10 2,101 (13) (6) 2,129 (8) (9) 2,138 (10) (12)
Pharmaceutical turnover includes co-promotion income.192 GSK Annual Report 2008
Shareholder information
Financial record
continued
Quarterly trend
Pharmaceutical turnover – Europe
Q4 2008 Q3 2008 Q2 2008 Q1 2008
£m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Respiratory 550 3 18 449 – 12 497 – 12 486 4 14
Seretide/Advair 392 5 19 324 1 13 355 4 15 345 9 19
Flixotide/Flovent 50 2 16 38 (3) 15 43 (7) 5 44 (7) 7
Serevent 33 (17) (6) 32 (13) – 34 (11) (3) 37 6 16
Veramyst 6 – – 3 – – 1 – – 1 – –
Flixonase/Flonase 12 (17) – 11 11 22 16 (13) 7 13 – –
Anti-virals 224 (6) 9 199 (12) 1 218 (12) (1) 209 (17) (7)
HIV 165 (10) 6 150 (6) 7 164 (2) 11 157 (7) 4
Epzicom/Kivexa 57 16 33 50 19 35 54 33 50 48 33 45
Combivir 42 (18) (5) 38 (19) (10) 44 (19) (6) 42 (21) (13)
Trizivir 22 (24) (12) 22 (17) (4) 24 (13) 4 24 (19) (11)
Agenerase, Lexiva 15 (7) 7 15 (8) 15 16 8 23 15 8 15
Epivir 15 (20) – 13 (27) (13) 15 (19) (6) 15 (22 ) (17 )
Ziagen 9 (11) – 8 (22) (11) 10 – 11 9 (11 ) –
Valtrex 38 3 23 35 7 25 36 10 24 35 15 30
Zeffix 7 (17) 17 7 – 17 6 20 20 7 – 17
Relenza 5 25 25 – – – 1 (96) (96) – – –
Central nervous system 151 – 15 142 4 17 143 1 13 129 (8) 2
Lamictal 39 (8) 3 37 (9) 6 38 (3) 9 33 (14) (6)
Imigran/Imitrex 25 (4) 4 24 (5) 9 24 – 9 23 (5) 10
Seroxat/Paxil 29 (10) – 27 (8) 4 31 (13) – 28 (24) (18)
Wellbutrin 6 >100 >100 6 100 >100 3 – – 3 >100 >100
Requip 38 28 52 35 35 52 31 27 41 29 24 38
Treximet – – – – – – – – –
Cardiovascular and urogenital 137 5 25 130 17 38 129 12 29 116 6 20
Avodart 33 12 32 29 19 38 28 19 33 28 39 56
Lovaza – – – – – – – – – – – –
Coreg – – – – – – – – – – – –
Coreg CR – – – – – – – – – – – –
Coreg IR – – – – – – – – – – – –
Fraxiparine 44 (10) 7 47 18 42 46 3 21 41 (8) 5
Arixtra 21 64 91 19 78 >100 17 50 70 14 33 56
Vesicare – – – – – – – – – – – –
Levitra 1 (100) – 1 – – – – – 1 – –
Metabolic 76 (16) (1) 72 (2) 13 73 (19) (8) 73 (6) 4
Avandia products 47 (27) (16) 48 (16) (4) 49 (31) (21) 54 (14) (5)
Avandia 20 (25) (17) 20 (31) (23) 20 (40) (33) 22 (35) (29)
Avandamet 26 (29) (16) 26 – 13 28 (23) (10) 31 8 19
Bonviva/Boniva 23 33 53 18 60 80 18 60 80 15 44 67
Anti-bacterials 179 (9) 6 141 (1) 15 140 (2) 11 175 (8) 3
Augmentin 74 (6) 10 62 6 22 57 – 14 79 – 13
Altabax – – – 1 – – – – – – – –
Oncology and emesis 50 16 35 41 6 24 41 6 21 37 6 19
Hycamtin 14 – 27 12 10 20 12 – 20 11 11 22
Zofran 16 (18) (6) 15 (24) (12) 16 (13) – 16 (30) (20)
Tykerb 17 >100 >100 10 80 100 8 >100 >100 7 >100 >100
Vaccines 356 23 40 323 40 59 276 41 59 200 5 18
Hepatitis 74 – 17 61 2 13 72 3 24 56 (4) 2
Infanrix/Pediarix 113 36 55 89 23 46 94 26 45 81 (1) 13
Fluarix, FluLaval 21 89 >100 58 55 76 (1) – – – – –
Flu-prepandemic 15 (68) (68) 10 >100 >100 35 – – 4
Cervarix 45 >100 >100 38 – – 11 – – 10 – –
Rotarix 13 57 86 11 67 83 10 33 67 9 100 >100
Boostrix 7 20 40 7 40 40 7 20 40 5 – 25
Other 103 23 37 66 (6) 5 81 19 31 71 20 31
1,826 4 20 1,563 6 20 1,598 4 17 1,496 (2) 9
Pharmaceutical turnover includes co-promotion income.GSK Annual Report 2008 193
Shareholder information
Financial record
continued
Quarterly trend
Pharmaceutical turnover – Rest of World
Q4 2008 Q3 2008 Q2 2008 Q1 2008
£m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Respiratory 329 7 25 263 11 23 270 12 22 253 6 17
Seretide/Advair 171 30 47 143 35 47 136 31 43 110 19 29
Flixotide/Flovent 55 (10) 8 40 (10) – 47 (9) 4 43 (7) –
Serevent 15 (35) (12) 11 (23) (15) 16 (12) (6) 13 (21) (7)
Veramyst 1 – – 2 – 100 2 – – – – –
Flixonase/Flonase 22 (5) 16 15 (32) (21) 16 7 7 29 – 16
Anti-virals 200 (14) 3 195 7 17 178 (2) 6 183 8 15
HIV 59 8 23 74 11 21 55 (7) (4) 49 5 11
Epzicom/Kivexa 17 40 70 16 56 78 11 71 57 11 29 57
Combivir 19 (21) – 31 26 35 19 – (5) 18 (6 ) 6
Trizivir 5 33 67 3 (25) (25) 3 (60) (40) 3 – –
Agenerase, Lexiva 6 33 100 4 25 – 4 >100 >100 2 – –
Epivir 7 (33) (22) 11 22 22 8 (33) (33) 8 (22 ) (11 )
Ziagen 5 (38) (38) 9 14 29 5 (29) (29) 6 – –
Valtrex 49 (9) 14 45 3 15 46 14 28 41 12 24
Zeffix 42 3 27 31 (9) (3) 37 (6) 3 36 10 16
Relenza 3 (90) (90) 7 >100 >100 – – – 21 19 31
Central nervous system 161 (2) 23 122 (5) 6 128 1 10 106 (7) 2
Lamictal 19 – 19 15 – (6) 17 – 13 17 7 13
Imigran/Imitrex 13 (20) 30 10 – – 10 – 11 8 (11) (11)
Seroxat/Paxil 106 (2) 28 72 (9) 4 80 (7) 7 62 (10) (2)
Wellbutrin 4 – – 3 100 50 5 – 25 2 (33) (33)
Requip 9 33 50 8 60 60 9 >100 >100 5 67 67
Treximet - - - – – – – – –
Cardiovascular and urogenital 67 15 29 56 13 24 55 15 17 50 18 28
Avodart 12 22 33 10 67 67 9 50 50 8 75 100
Lovaza – – – – – – 1 – – – – –
Coreg 1 – – 1 (100) – 1 (100) (67) – – –
Coreg CR 1 100 >100 – – – 1 (100) – – – –
Coreg IR – – – 1 (100) – – – – – – –
Fraxiparine 14 30 40 12 38 50 12 71 71 10 13 25
Arixtra 3 – 50 3 50 50 3 – 50 2 – –
Vesicare – – – – – – – – – – – –
Levitra – – – – – – – – – – – –
Metabolic 87 (3) 13 81 4 14 73 (23) (17) 66 (30) (24)
Avandia products 50 4 11 44 (16) (2) 41 (33) (33) 38 (44) (40)
Avandia 38 (8) 3 31 (20) (11) 33 (36) (34) 29 (48) (44)
Avandamet 10 57 43 11 - 38 8 (11) (11) 7 (30) (30)
Bonviva/Boniva 2 >100 >100 2 (33) (33) 2 – – 1 – –
Anti-bacterials 168 1 14 159 10 17 150 7 12 143 11 16
Augmentin 70 (2) 9 72 24 31 64 13 21 60 9 13
Altabax – – – – – – – – – – – –
Oncology and emesis 24 6 33 23 16 21 19 12 12 18 – 13
Hycamtin 2 – (33) 2 – – 4 100 100 2 (50) –
Zofran 11 (17) (8) 12 (9) 9 11 (29) (21) 10 (9) (9)
Tykerb 4 >100 100 4 – – 3 – – 2 – –
Vaccines 262 32 49 189 12 24 177 37 48 127 2 9
Hepatitis 37 17 23 31 19 48 29 35 26 30 (4 ) 15
Infanrix/Pediarix 25 – 25 23 28 28 24 16 26 21 – 11
Fluarix, FluLaval 23 22 28 23 100 >100 6 – – – – –
Flu-prepandemic 1 – – – – – (1) – – 1 – –
Cervarix 10 – – 5 >100 >100 4 – – 2 – –
Rotarix 36 9 13 24 29 41 25 >100 >100 18 70 80
Boostrix 2 (50) – 2 100 100 2 – – 3 50 50
Other 153 (10) 5 136 (12) (5) 146 (12) (5) 187 32 36
1,451 3 21 1,224 5 15 1,196 4 12 1,133 6 14
Pharmaceutical turnover includes co-promotion income.194 GSK Annual Report 2008
Shareholder information
Financial record
continued
Quarterly trend
Consumer Healthcare turnover – total Group
Q4 2008 Q3 2008 Q2 2008 Q1 2008
£m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Over-the-counter medicines 579 (1) 16 476 (1) 10 443 (9) (4) 437 5 11
Panadol franchise 84 10 25 82 9 21 78 11 18 80 19 29
Smoking cessation 93 (10) 8 83 3 11 65 (15) (13) 58 (27) (26)
Tums 27 – 23 21 (17) (9) 22 5 5 21 (5) (5)
Cold sore franchise 28 (8) 8 22 – 10 19 20 27 20 6 11
Breathe Right 27 28 50 19 (5) – 18 42 50 17 14 21
alli 30 (35) (25) 18 (50) (47) 18 (76) (76) 9 – –
Oral healthcare 343 7 25 310 7 19 298 3 12 289 8 17
Aquafresh franchise 122 2 16 116 5 18 107 (3) 6 107 6 14
Sensodyne franchise 100 13 30 90 8 20 87 9 18 86 19 28
Dental care 77 9 33 68 9 21 66 7 20 60 6 13
Nutritional healthcare 185 1 8 208 5 7 210 11 12 193 14 18
Lucozade 89 (1) 3 100 2 5 107 11 14 86 18 19
Horlicks 47 10 18 53 10 10 48 14 14 56 18 27
Ribena 37 (3) 3 44 2 7 43 5 5 37 (5) (3)
1,107 2 17 994 3 12 951 (1) 4 919 8 14
Consumer Healthcare turnover – USA
Q4 2008 Q3 2008 Q2 2008 Q1 2008
£m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Over-the-counter medicines 207 (16) 5 155 (16) (9) 143 (30) (31) 125 (6) (7)
Panadol franchise – – – – – – – – – – – –
Smoking cessation 68 (13) 8 60 2 7 47 (8) (8) 38 (25) (25)
Tums 23 (5) 21 18 (16) (5) 19 5 – 18 (10) (10)
Cold sore franchise 15 (8) 15 10 (9) (9) 9 50 50 7 (13) (13)
Breathe Right 16 8 23 13 (8) – 10 – – 9 (25) (25)
alli 28 (44) (35) 18 (52) (45) 17 (76) (78) 8 – –
Oral healthcare 68 8 33 54 4 13 50 (7) (7) 50 4 2
Aquafresh franchise 26 – 30 20 6 18 18 (21) (25) 20 11 11
Sensodyne franchise 21 13 40 17 14 21 15 7 7 15 15 15
Dental care 19 7 36 15 – 7 15 – – 14 (7) (7)
Nutritional healthcare – – – – – – – – – – – –
Lucozade – – – – – – – – – – – –
Horlicks – – – – – – – – – – – –
Ribena – – – – – – – – – – – –
275 (11) 10 209 (11) (5) 193 (25) (26) 175 (3) (4)GSK Annual Report 2008 195
Shareholder information
Financial record
continued
Quarterly trend
Consumer Healthcare turnover – Europe
Q4 2008 Q3 2008 Q2 2008 Q1 2008
£m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Over-the-counter medicines 187 4 17 142 4 19 134 4 17 144 5 15
Panadol franchise 23 5 21 20 (6) 18 17 14 21 19 13 27
Smoking cessation 18 (6) 6 13 (8) – 13 (33) (28) 16 (35) (30)
Tums 1 – – – – – – – – – – –
Cold sore franchise 11 – 10 8 – 14 9 14 29 10 13 25
Breathe Right 6 33 100 4 100 100 5 100 >100 5 >100 >100
alli – – – – – – – – – – – –
Oral healthcare 189 4 20 174 7 22 169 5 17 159 7 19
Aquafresh franchise 73 - 12 72 2 18 66 4 16 64 2 14
Sensodyne franchise 48 8 23 43 9 23 43 8 19 41 23 32
Dental care 32 17 33 27 15 35 27 9 23 24 11 26
Nutritional healthcare 110 (5) (3) 127 1 2 134 6 7 110 8 10
Lucozade 76 (4) (1) 89 – 2 95 9 10 76 16 19
Horlicks 6 (14) (14) 5 (17) (17) 5 – – 6 (14) (14)
Ribena 27 (4) (4) 33 (3) – 34 3 3 27 (7) (7)
486 2 13 443 4 15 437 5 14 413 7 15
Consumer Healthcare turnover – Rest of World
Q4 2008 Q3 2008 Q2 2008 Q1 2008
£m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Over-the-counter medicines 185 14 30 179 13 27 166 11 19 168 16 24
Panadol franchise 61 13 27 62 14 22 61 10 17 61 21 30
Smoking cessation 7 – 17 10 33 67 5 (17) (17) 4 – –
Tums 3 – – 3 – – 3 – 50 3 50 50
Cold sore franchise 2 (33) (33) 4 50 100 1 (50) (50) 3 50 50
Breathe Right 5 >100 >100 2 (50) (50) 3 – – 3 100 >100
alli 2 >100 >100 – – – 1 – – 1 – –
Oral healthcare 86 10 28 82 9 19 79 7 16 80 14 23
Aquafresh franchise 23 10 15 24 15 20 23 – 15 23 15 15
Sensodyne franchise 31 22 35 30 4 15 29 13 21 30 17 30
Dental care 26 – 30 26 9 18 24 11 33 22 11 16
Nutritional healthcare 75 14 27 81 13 16 76 21 23 83 24 32
Lucozade 13 22 44 11 25 38 12 25 50 10 38 25
Horlicks 41 15 24 48 14 14 43 16 16 50 24 35
Ribena 10 – 25 11 25 38 9 13 13 10 – 11
346 13 29 342 12 22 321 13 19 331 17 25196 GSK Annual Report 2008
Shareholder information
Financial record
continued
Five year record
A record of financial performance is provided, analysed in accordance with current reporting practice. The information included in the
Five year record is prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union and also with IFRS as issued by the International
Accounting Standards Board.
2007 2006 2005 2004
2008 (restated) (restated) (restated) (restated)
Turnover by business segment
£m £m £m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals 20,381 19,163 20,013 18,583 17,031
Consumer Healthcare 3,971 3,553 3,212 3,077 2,955
24,352 22,716 23,225 21,660 19,986
2007 2006 2005 2004
2008 (restated) (restated) (restated) (restated)
Pharmaceutical turnover by therapeutic area
£m £m £m £m £m
Respiratory 5,817 5,032 4,991 5,050 4,392
Anti-virals 3,206 3,027 2,826 2,598 2,355
Central nervous system 2,897 3,348 3,642 3,219 3,462
Cardiovascular and urogenital 1,847 1,554 1,636 1,331 932
Metabolic 1,191 1,508 1,870 1,488 1,245
Anti-bacterials 1,429 1,323 1,363 1,513 1,542
Oncology and emesis 496 477 1,069 1,016 934
Vaccines 2,539 1,993 1,692 1,389 1,194
Other 959 901 924 979 975
20,381 19,163 20,013 18,583 17,031
2007 2006 2005 2004
2008 (restated) (restated) (restated) (restated)
Pharmaceutical turnover by geographic area
£m £m £m £m £m
USA 8,894 9,273 10,353 9,106 8,425
Europe 6,483 5,560 5,437 5,458 5,036
Rest of World:
Emerging markets 2,290 1,895 1,783 1,671 1,487
Japan 1,027 867 860 854 769
Asia Pacific 891 834 806 763 666
Canada 503 477 483 443 411
Other 293 257 291 288 237
Rest of World 5,004 4,330 4,223 4,019 3,570
20,381 19,163 20,013 18,583 17,031
Pharmaceutical turnover includes co-promotion income.
2007 2006 2005 2004
2008 (restated) (restated) (restated) (restated)
Consumer Healthcare turnover
£m £m £m £m £m
OTC medicines 1,935 1,788 1,561 1,515 1,469
Oral healthcare 1,240 1,049 993 943 913
Nutritional healthcare 796 716 658 619 573
3,971 3,553 3,212 3,077 2,955GSK Annual Report 2008 197
Shareholder information
Financial record
continued
Financial results – total 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004
£m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 24,352 22,716 23,225 21,660 19,986
Operating profit 7,141 7,593 7,808 6,874 5,756
Profit before taxation 6,659 7,452 7,799 6,732 5,779
Profit after taxation 4,712 5,310 5,498 4,816 4,022
pence pence pence pence pence
Basic earnings per share 88.6p 94.4p 95.5p 82.6p 68.1p
Diluted earnings per share 88.1p 93.7p 94.5p 82.0p 68.0p
Financial results – before major restructuring 2008 2007
£m £m
Turnover 24,352 22,716
Operating profit 8,259 7,931
Profit before taxation 7,782 7,790
Profit after taxation 5,551 5,571
pence pence
Adjusted earnings per share 104.7p 99.1p
Adjusted diluted earnings per share 104.1p 98.3p
2008 2007 2006 2005 2004
millions millions millions millions millions
Weighted average number of shares in issue:
Basic 5,195 5,524 5,643 5,674 5,736
Diluted 5,226 5,567 5,700 5,720 5,748
% % % % %
Return on capital employed 73.1 76.2 90.6 99.7 100.2
Return on capital employed is calculated as total profit before taxation as a percentage of average capital employed over the year.
Balance sheet 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004
£m £m £m £m £m
Non-current assets 22,124 17,377 14,561 14,021 12,164
Current assets 17,269 13,626 10,992 13,177 10,780
Total assets 39,393 31,003 25,553 27,198 22,944
Current liabilities (10,017) (10,345) (7,265) (9,511) (8,564)
Non-current liabilities (21,058) (10,748) (8,640) (10,117) (8,443)
Total liabilities (31,075) (21,093) (15,905) (19,628) (17,007)
Net assets 8,318 9,910 9,648 7,570 5,937
Shareholders’ equity 7,931 9,603 9,386 7,311 5,724
Minority interests 387 307 262 259 213
Total equity 8,318 9,910 9,648 7,570 5,937198 GSK Annual Report 2008
Shareholder information
Financial record
continued
Number of employees
2008 2007 2006 2005 2004
USA 21,176 24,838 24,726 23,822 23,782
Europe 44,677 46,869 45,758 43,999 44,679
Rest of World:
Asia Pacific 18,983 17,525 17,570 15,991 16,109
Japan 3,174 3,284 3,195 3,098 2,965
Middle East, Africa 3,403 3,156 3,204 5,682 5,134
Latin America 5,228 5,249 5,856 5,664 5,603
Canada 2,362 2,562 2,386 2,472 1,747
Rest of World 33,150 31,776 32,211 32,907 31,558
99,003 103,483 102,695 100,728 100,019
Manufacturing 32,622 33,995 33,235 31,615 31,143
Selling 42,430 44,499 44,484 44,393 44,646
Administration 8,787 8,960 9,024 9,225 9,193
Research and development 15,164 16,029 15,952 15,495 15,037
99,003 103,483 102,695 100,728 100,019
The number of employees is the number of permanent employed staff at the end of the financial period. It excludes those employees who
are employed and managed by GSK on a contract basis.
Exchange rates
As a guide to holders of ADS, the following tables set out, for the periods indicated, information on the exchange rate of US dollars
for Sterling as reported by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (‘noon buying rate’).
2008 2007 2006 2005 2004
Average 1.85 2.00 1.85 1.81 1.84
The average rate for the year is calculated as the average of the noon buying rates for each day of the year.
Feb Jan Dec Nov Oct Sept
2009 2009 2008 2008 2008 2008
High 1.49 1.52 1.55 1.62 1.78 1.86
Low 1.42 1.37 1.44 1.48 1.55 1.75
As at 31st December 2008, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York ceased publishing noon buying rates. The Bank of England 4pm buying
rates have been used for subsequent calculations.
The 4pm buying rate on 24th February 2009 was £1= US$1.44.GSK Annual Report 2008 199
Shareholder information
Product development pipeline
Key
† In-license or other alliance relationship with third party BLA Biological License Application
S Month of first submission MAA Marketing authorisation application (Europe)
A Month of first regulatory approval (for MAA, this is the first EU NDA New drug application (USA)
approval letter) Phase I Evaluation of clinical pharmacology, usually conducted in volunteers
AL Month Approvable or Complete Response Letter received – indicates Phase II Determination of dose and initial evaluation of efficacy, conducted in a
that ultimately approval can be given subject to resolution of small number of patients
outstanding queries Phase III Large comparative study (compound versus placebo and/or established
PO Month of EU Positive Opinion treatment) in patients to establish clinical benefit and safety.
Estimated submission dates are only disclosed where they are within 12 months of the date of the chart. This date represents the most
likely year of submission where it is considered that there is a reasonably high probability of successfully meeting the date assuming the
clinical data meets the expected end-points of the clinical trials.
Estimated submission dates
Compound Type Indication Phase MAA NDA/BLA
Biopharmaceuticals
249320 monoclonal antibody stroke I
933776 monoclonal antibody Alzheimer’s disease I
iboctadekin† + Doxil IL18 immunomodulator + topoisomerase II ovarian cancer I
inhibitor
iboctadekin† + rituximab IL18 immunomodulator + anti-CD20 non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma I
monoclonal antibody
315234 monoclonal antibody rheumatoid arthritis II
679586 monoclonal antibody severe asthma II
belimumab† anti-B lymphocyte stimulator monoclonal systemic lupus erythematosus II
antibody (s.c.)
mepolizumab anti-IL5 monoclonal antibody severe asthma & nasal polyposis II
ofatumumab† anti-CD20 human monoclonal antibody diffuse large B cell lymphoma II
ofatumumab† anti-CD20 human monoclonal antibody multiple sclerosis II
belimumab† anti-B lymphocyte stimulator monoclonal systemic lupus erythematosus III
antibody (i.v.)
ofatumumab† anti-CD20 human monoclonal antibody follicular lymphoma III
ofatumumab† anti-CD20 human monoclonal antibody rheumatoid arthritis III
otelixizumab† anti-CD3 monoclonal antibody type 1 diabetes III
Syncria† glucagon-like peptide 1 agonist type 2 diabetes III
Bosatria (mepolizumab) anti-IL5 monoclonal antibody hypereosinophilic syndrome Submitted S:Sep08
ofatumumab† anti-CD20 human monoclonal antibody refractory chronic lymphocytic leukaemia Submitted S:Feb09 S:Jan09
Cardiovascular & Metabolic
256073 high affinity nicotinic acid receptor (HM74A) dyslipidaemia I
agonist
1278863 prolyl hydroxylase inhibitor anaemia I
1292263 gastrin-releasing peptide (GRP) receptor agonist type 2 diabetes I
1521498 mu-opioid receptor inverse agonist obesity I
1614235† sodium dependent glucose transport (SGLT1) type 2 diabetes I
inhibitor
2245840 SIRT1 activator type 2 diabetes (also chronic obstructive pulmonary I
disease, COPD)
221149 oxytocin antagonist threatened pre-term labour II
756050 bile acid receptor agonist type 2 diabetes II
184072 SIRT1 activator type 2 diabetes (also oncology indications) II
losmapimod (856553) p38 kinase inhibitor cardiovascular disease (also COPD & depression) II
pazopanib multi-kinase angiogenesis inhibitor (eye drops) age-related macular degeneration (also cancer indications) II
remogliflozin etabonate† SGLT2 inhibitor type 1 diabetes II
remogliflozin etabonate† SGLT2 inhibitor type 2 diabetes II
rilapladib† Lp-PLA2 inhibitor atherosclerosis II
ronacaleret† calcium antagonist osteoporosis & fracture healing II
Avandamet XR PPAR gamma agonist + metformin type 2 diabetes – extended release III N/A
Avandia + simvastatin PPAR gamma agonist + statin type 2 diabetes III N/A
darapladib† Lp-PLA2 inhibitor atherosclerosis III
Arixtra synthetic factor Xa inhibitor treatment of acute coronary syndrome Approved A:Aug07 AL:Feb07
& Sep07
Avandia PPAR gamma agonist prevention of disease progression Approved S:Nov08 A:Jul08
Volibris† endothelin A antagonist pulmonary arterial hypertension Approved A:Apr08 N/A200 GSK Annual Report 2008
Shareholder information
Product development pipeline
continued
Estimated submission dates
Compound Type Indication Phase MAA NDA
Infectious Diseases
932121 plasmodium electron transport chain inhibitor malaria I
945237 topoisomerase II inhibitor treatment of bacterial infections I
1265744† HIV integrase inhibitor HIV infections I
1322322 novel class antibacterial agent treatment of bacterial infections I
1349572† HIV integrase inhibitor HIV infections II
IDX899† non-nucleotide reverse transcriptase inhibitor HIV infections II
sitamaquine 8-aminoquinoline treatment of visceral leishmaniasis II N/A
tafenoquine† 8-aminoquinoline Plasmodium vivax malaria II
Neurosciences
163090 5HT1 antagonist depression & anxiety I
424887 NK1 antagonist/SSRI depression & anxiety I
586529† CRF1 antagonist depression & anxiety I
598809 dopamine D3 antagonist drug dependency I
618334 dopamine D3 antagonist drug dependency I
729327 AMPA receptor modulator schizophrenia I
1014802 sodium channel blocker bipolar disorder I
1018921 type 1 glycine transport inhibitor schizophrenia I
1034702 muscarinic acetylcholine agonist dementia I
1144814 NK1/NK3 antagonist schizophrenia I
1482160 purinergic ATP receptor antagonist pain I
orvepitant NK1 antagonist depression & anxiety I
239512 histamine H3 antagonist dementia II
468816 glycine antagonist smoking cessation II
561679† CRF1 antagonist depression & anxiety II
649868† orexin antagonist sleep disorders II
681323 p38 kinase inhibitor neuropathic pain II
742457 5HT6 antagonist dementia II
firategrast† dual alpha4 integrin antagonist (VLA4) multiple sclerosis II
losmapimod (856553) p38 kinase inhibitor depression (also cardiovascular disease & COPD) II
Solzira (1838262)† voltage-gated calcium channel modulator migraine prophylaxis II
Solzira (1838262)† voltage-gated calcium channel modulator neuropathic pain II
almorexant† orexin antagonist insomnia III
Lamictal XR sodium channel inhibitor epilepsy – partial generalised tonic-clonic seizures, once-daily III N/A 2009
retigabine† neuronal potassium channel opener epilepsy – partial seizures III
rosiglitazone XR PPAR gamma agonist Alzheimer’s disease III
Lunivia† non-benzodiazepine GABA agonist insomnia Submitted PO:Oct08 N/A
Solzira (1838262)† voltage-gated calcium channel modulator restless legs syndrome Submitted S:Sep08 &
Jan09
Lamictal XR sodium channel inhibitor epilepsy – partial seizures, once-daily Approvable N/A AL: Sep07
Requip Modutab/XL† non-ergot dopamine agonist Parkinson’s disease – once-daily controlled release formulation Approved A:Mar07 A:Jun08
Treximet† 5HT1 agonist + naproxen migraine – fixed dose combination Approved N/A A:Apr08GSK Annual Report 2008 201
Shareholder information
Product development pipeline
continued
Estimated submission dates
Compound Type Indication Phase MAA NDA
Oncology
461364 polo-like kinase inhibitor cancer I
923295† centromere-associated protein E (CENP-E) cancer I
inhibitor
1120212† mitogen-activated protein kinase inhibitor cancer I
(MEK1/2)
totrombopag† thrombopoietin receptor agonist thrombocytopaenia I
184072 SIRT1 activator colon & haematologic cancers (also type 2 diabetes) II
1363089† mesenchymal-epithelial transition factor papillary renal cell carcinoma, gastric cancer and II
(C-met) kinase inhibitor head & neck squamous cell carcinoma
pazopanib multi-kinase angiogenesis inhibitor non-small cell lung cancer II
pazopanib multi-kinase angiogenesis inhibitor ovarian cancer II
pazopanib + multi-kinase angiogenesis inhibitor + Her2 and metastatic breast cancer II
Tyverb/Tykerb epidermal growth factor receptor
(EGFR) dual kinase inhibitor
Revolade/Promacta† thrombopoietin receptor agonist oncology-related thrombocytopaenia II
Tyverb/Tykerb Her2 and EGFR dual kinase inhibitor head & neck squamous cell carcinoma (unresectable disease) II
Tyverb/Tykerb Her2 and EGFR dual kinase inhibitor refractory inflammatory breast cancer II
Avodart 5-alpha reductase inhibitor reduction in the risk of prostate cancer III 2009 2009
elesclomol†* oxidative stress inducer metastatic melanoma III
pazopanib multi-kinase angiogenesis inhibitor sarcoma III
pazopanib + multi-kinase angiogenesis inhibitor + Her2 inflammatory breast cancer III
Tyverb/Tykerb and EGFR dual kinase inhibitor
Revolade/Promacta† thrombopoietin receptor agonist chronic liver disease induced thrombocytopaenia III
Revolade/Promacta† thrombopoietin receptor agonist hepatitis C induced thrombocytopaenia III
Tyverb/Tykerb Her2 and EGFR dual kinase inhibitor breast cancer, adjuvant therapy III
Tyverb/Tykerb Her2 and EGFR dual kinase inhibitor breast cancer, first line therapy III 2009 2009
Tyverb/Tykerb Her2 and EGFR dual kinase inhibitor gastric cancer III
Tyverb/Tykerb Her2 and EGFR dual kinase inhibitor head & neck squamous cell carcinoma (resectable disease) III
Duodart (Avodart + 5-alpha reductase inhibitor + alpha blocker benign prostatic hyperplasia - fixed dose combination Submitted S:Dec08 2009
alpha blocker)
pazopanib multi-kinase angiogenesis inhibitor renal cell cancer (also age-related macular degeneration) Submitted S:Feb09 S:Dec08
Zunrisa/Rezonic NK1 antagonist chemotherapy-induced & postoperative nausea & vomiting Submitted S:Jul08 S:May08
Hycamtin topoisomerase I inhibitor (oral) small cell lung cancer, second-line therapy Approved A:Mar08 A:Oct07
Revolade/Promacta† thrombopoietin receptor agonist idiopathic thrombocytopaenic purpura Approved S:Dec08 A:Nov08
Tyverb/Tykerb Her2 and EGFR dual kinase inhibitor refractory breast cancer Approved A:Jun08 A:Mar07
Respiratory & Immuno-inflammation
610677 p38 kinase inhibitor (inhaled) COPD I
656933 Chemokine receptor (CXCR2) antagonist cystic fibrosis & COPD I
705498 transient receptor potential vanilloid (TRPV1) non-allergic rhinitis I
antagonist (intranasal)
962040 motilin receptor agonist delayed gastric emptying I
1399686 anti-inflammatory macrolide conjugate (oral) inflammatory bowel disease I
2245840 SIRT1 activator COPD (also type 2 diabetes) I
159797† long-acting beta2 agonist COPD, also COPD & asthma in combination with a II
glucocorticoid agonist
159802† long-acting beta2 agonist COPD, also COPD & asthma in combination with a II
glucocorticoid agonist
256066 PDE IV inhibitor (inhaled) asthma & COPD II
573719 muscarinic acetylcholine antagonist COPD II
685698 glucocorticoid agonist asthma, also COPD & asthma in combination with a II
long-acting beta2 agonist
835726 histamine H1/H3 dual antagonist (oral) allergic rhinitis II
870086 novel glucocorticoid agonist (inhaled) asthma II
642444† long-acting beta2 agonist COPD, also COPD & asthma in combination with a II
glucocorticoid agonist
961081† muscarinic antagonist, beta2 agonist COPD II
1004723 histamine H1/H3 dual antagonist (intranasal) allergic rhinitis II
2190915† 5-lipoxygenase-activating protein (FLAP) asthma II
inhibitor
darotropium muscarinic acetylcholine antagonist COPD II
darotropium + 642444† muscarinic acetylcholine antagonist + COPD II
long-acting beta2 agonist
losmapimod (856553) p38 kinase inhibitor (oral) COPD (also cardiovascular disease & depression) II
Entereg† peripheral mu-opioid antagonist post operative ileus Approved N/A A:May08
* See Note 40 to the financial statements, ‘Post balance sheet events’.202 GSK Annual Report 2008
Shareholder information
Product development pipeline
continued
Estimated submission dates
Compound Type Indication Phase MAA BLA
Paediatric Vaccines
Mosquirix recombinant malaria prophylaxis II
Hib-MenCY-TT conjugated Neisseria meningitis groups C & Y disease & Haemophilus III 2009
influenzae type b disease prophylaxis
MenACWY-TT conjugated Neisseria meningitis groups A, C, W & Y disease prophylaxis III
Synflorix conjugated Streptococcus pneumoniae diseases prophylaxis in infants Submitted PO:Jan09
& children
Kinrix subunit – inactivated diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis and poliomyelitis prophylaxis Approved A:Jun08
(booster – 5th dose)
Rotarix† live attenuated (oral) rotavirus-induced gastroenteritis prophylaxis Approved A:Feb06 A:Apr08
Other Vaccines
Cytomegalovirus recombinant cytomegalovirus infection prophylaxis I
HIV recombinant HIV infection prophylaxis I
NTHi-Pneumo recombinant Streptococcus pneumoniae and Haemophilus influenzae I
disease prophylaxis in adults
S. pneumoniae adult recombinant – conjugated Streptococcus pneumoniae disease prophylaxis I
Tuberculosis recombinant tuberculosis prophylaxis II
Zoster recombinant Herpes Zoster prevention II
Flu pandemic & H5N1 inactivated split – monovalent pandemic influenza prophylaxis III 2009 2009
pre-pandemic† (Quebec)
New generation flu vaccine inactivated split - trivalent seasonal influenza prophylaxis for the elderly III
Simplirix recombinant genital herpes prophylaxis III
Boostrix subunit adult booster for diphtheria, tetanus & pertussis Approved A:Jun00 A:Dec08
Pandemrix (Flu pandemic)† H5N1 inactivated split – monovalent pandemic influenza prophylaxis Approved A:May08
(Dresden)
Prepandrix H5N1 inactivated split – monovalent pre-pandemic influenza prophylaxis Approved A:May08
(Flu pre-pandemic)† (Dresden)
Cervarix† recombinant human papilloma virus infection prophylaxis Approved A:Sep07 AL:Dec07
Antigen Specific Cancer Immunotherapeutic (ASCI)
WT1 recombinant treatment of acute myelogenous leukaemia I
MAGE-A3 ASCI recombinant treatment of melanoma III
MAGE-A3 ASCI recombinant treatment of non-small cell lung cancer IIIGSK Annual Report 2008 203
Shareholder information
Shareholder information
The Ordinary Shares of the company are listed on the London Dividends per ADS
Stock Exchange and on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) The table below sets out the dividends per ADS in US dollars in
in the form of American Depositary Shares (ADS). For details of the last five years, translated into US dollars at applicable
listed debt and where it is listed refer to Note 32, ‘Net debt’. exchange rates.
Share price
Year US$
2008 2007 2006 2008 2.01
£ £ £ 2007 2.14
At 1st January 12.79 13.44 14.69 2006 1.80
High during the year 13.85 14.93 15.77 2005 1.57
Low during the year 9.95 11.60 13.26 2004 1.53
At 31st December 12.85 12.79 13.44
Increase/(decrease) 0.5% (5)% (9)% Dividend calendar
The table above sets out the middle market closing prices. The Quarter Ex-dividend date Record date Payment date
company’s share price increased by 0.5% in 2008. This compares Q4 2008 11th February 2009 13th February 2009 9th April 2009
with a decrease in the FTSE 100 index of 31% during the year. Q1 2009 29th April 2009 1st May 2009 9th July 2009
The share price on 24th February 2009 was £11.06. Q2 2009 29th July 2009 31st July 2009 8th October 2009
Market capitalisation Q3 2009 4th November 2009 6th November 2009 7th January 2010
The market capitalisation, based on shares in issue excluding
Treasury shares, of GlaxoSmithKline at 31st December 2008 was Financial reporting calendar
£67 billion. At that date GSK was the fifth largest company by
Publication Date
market capitalisation on the FTSE index.
Results announcements
SmithKline Beecham plc Floating Rate Unsecured Quarter 1 April 2009
Loan Stock 1990/2010 Quarter 2 July 2009
The loan stock is not listed on any exchange but holders may require Quarter 3 October 2009
SmithKline Beecham plc to redeem their loan stock at par, i.e. £1 for Preliminary/Quarter 4 January 2010
every £1 of loan stock held, on the first business day of March, June, Annual report/summary February/March 2010
September and December. Holders wishing to redeem all or part
of their loan stock should complete the notice on the back of their Results announcements
loan stock certificate and return it to the registrar, to arrive at least Results announcements are issued to the London Stock Exchange
30 days before the relevant redemption date. and are available on its news service. Shortly afterwards, they are
issued to the media, are made available on the website and sent to
Taxation
the US Securities and Exchange Commission and the NYSE.
General information concerning the UK and US tax effects of share
Financial reports
ownership is set out on page 206 ‘Taxation information for shareholders’.
GSK publishes an Annual Report and for the shareholder not needing
Dividends the full detail of the Report, a Summary document. These are
GlaxoSmithKline pays dividends quarterly. It continues to increase available from the date of publication on the website. The Summary
cash returns to shareholders through its dividend policy. Dividends is sent to all shareholders. Shareholders may elect to receive the
remain an essential component of total shareholder return and Annual Report by writing to the registrars. Alternatively shareholders
GSK is committed to increasing its dividend over the long-term. may elect to receive notification by email of the publication of
Details of the dividends declared, the amount and the payment financial reports by registering on www.shareview.co.uk.
dates are given in Note 16 to the financial statements, ‘Dividends’.
Copies of previous financial reports are available on GSK’s website.
Dividends per share Printed copies can be obtained from the registrars in the UK and
The table below sets out the dividends per share in the last five years. from the GSK Response Center in the USA.
Corporate responsibility report
Year pence
In late March 2009, GSK will publish on the website its
2008 57
Corporate Responsibility Report covering performance in areas
2007 53
including community investment, ethics and integrity, access to
2006 48
medicines, R&D and environment, health and safety.
2005 44
2004 42204 GSK Annual Report 2008
Shareholder information
Shareholder information
continued
Nature of trading market Annual General Meeting 2009
The following tables set out, for the periods indicated, the high
The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, 20th May 2009
and low middle market closing quotations in pence for the shares
Broad Sanctuary, Westminster,
on the London Stock Exchange, and the high and low last reported
London SW1P 3EE
sales prices in US dollars for the ADS on the NYSE.
The AGM is the company’s principal forum for communication
Pence per share
with private shareholders. In addition to the formal business
High Low
there will be a presentation by the Chief Executive Officer on the
Quarter ended 31st March 2009* 1305 1106
performance of the Group and its future development. There will
February 2009* 1277 1106
be opportunity for questions to the Board, and the Chairmen of
January 2009 1305 1215
the Board’s Committees will take questions on matters relating to
December 2008 1285 1102
those committees.
November 2008 1250 1066
October 2008 1229 995 Investors holding shares through a nominee service should
September 2008 1327 1185 arrange with that nominee service to be appointed as a corporate
Quarter ended 31st December 2008 1285 995
representative or proxy in respect of their shareholding in order to
Quarter ended 30th September 2008 1327 1103
attend and vote at the meeting.
Quarter ended 30th June 2008 1153 1053
Quarter ended 31st March 2008 1385 1001 ADR holders wishing to attend the meeting must obtain a proxy
Quarter ended 31st December 2007 1333 1160 from The Bank of New York Mellon which will enable them to
Quarter ended 30th September 2007 1341 1215 attend and vote on the business to be transacted. ADR holders
Quarter ended 30th June 2007 1488 1272 may instruct The Bank of New York Mellon as to the way in
Quarter ended 31st March 2007 1493 1344 which the shares represented by their ADR should be voted by
Year ended 31st December 2006 1577 1326 completing and returning the voting card provided by the bank in
Year ended 31st December 2005 1544 1175
accordance with the instructions given.
Year ended 31st December 2004 1299 1042
Documents on display
The Memorandum and Articles of Association of the company
US dollars per ADS
and other documents referred to in this Annual Report are
High Low
available for inspection at the Registered Office of the company.
Quarter ended 31st March 2009* 39.24 31.91
February 2009* 37.36 31.91 Exchange controls and other limitations
January 2009 39.24 34.09 affecting security holders
December 2008 37.88 32.02
There are currently no UK laws, decrees or regulations
November 2008 40.19 32.54
restricting the import or export of capital or affecting the
October 2008 43.39 35.41
remittance of dividends or other payments to holders of the
September 2008 47.01 42.08
company’s shares who are non-residents of the UK. There are
Quarter ended 31st December 2008 43.39 32.02
no limitations relating only to non-residents of the UK under
Quarter ended 30th September 2008 49.03 42.08
English law or the company’s Memorandum and Articles of
Quarter ended 30th June 2008 45.36 41.39
Association on the right to be a holder of, and to vote in
Quarter ended 31st March 2008 54.36 40.85
Quarter ended 31st December 2007 54.14 47.87 respect of, the company’s shares.
Quarter ended 30th September 2007 54.23 49.43
Quarter ended 30th June 2007 59.35 51.28
Quarter ended 31st March 2007 58.37 52.66
Year ended 31st December 2006 58.38 50.15
Year ended 31st December 2005 53.53 44.48
Year ended 31st December 2004 47.50 39.04
* to 24th February 2009
Internet
Information about the company including details of the share
price is available on GSK’s website at www.gsk.com. Information
made available on the website does not constitute part of this
Annual Report.GSK Annual Report 2008 205
Shareholder information
Shareholder information
continued
Duplicate publications ADR programme administrator
Queries relating to receipt of duplicate copies of GSK’s The ADR programme is administered by:
publications should be addressed to the registrars. BNY Mellon Shareowner Services
PO Box 358516
Investor relations Pittsburgh, PA 15252-8516
Investor Relations may be contacted as follows: www.bnymellon.com/shareowner
Tel: 1 877 353 1154 (US toll free)
UK
980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex TW8 9GS Tel: +1 201 680 6825 (outside USA)
Tel: +44 (0)20 8047 5000 email: shrrelations@bnymellon.com
USA The administrators also provide Global BuyDIRECT, a direct ADS
One Franklin Plaza, PO Box 7929, Philadelphia PA 19101 purchase/sale and dividend reinvestment plan for ADR holders.
Tel: 1 888 825 5249 (US toll free)
GSK Response Center
Tel: +1 215 751 4000 (outside USA)
Tel: 1 888 825 5249 (US toll free)
Registrar
The provision of the details above is not intended to be an
The company’s registrars are:
invitation or inducement to engage in an investment activity.
Equiniti Advice on share dealing should be obtained from a stockbroker or
Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA independent financial adviser.
www.shareview.co.uk
Tel: 0871 384 2991 inside the UK
Tel: +44 (0)121 415 7067 outside the UK
Equiniti also provides the following services:
• Nominee dealing account and Individual Savings Account (ISA)
• GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Sponsored Nominee
• Shareview service
• Share dealing service
• Dividend Reinvestment Plan
Share dealing service
Shareholders may trade shares, either held in certificates or in the
Corporate Sponsored Nominee by internet or telephone through
Shareview dealing, a share dealing service provided by Equiniti.
For internet deals log on to www.shareview.co.uk/dealing. For
telephone deals call 08456 037 037 (inside the UK only).
For the nominee and ISA service, either www.shareview.co.uk/
dealing or call 0845 300 0430. Telephone services are available
between 8.00 and 18.00, Monday to Friday (market trading hours
8.00 - 16.30).
Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham
Corporate PEPs
The Share Centre Limited
Oxford House, Oxford Road, Aylesbury, Bucks HP21 8SZ
Tel: +44 (0)1296 414141206 GSK Annual Report 2008
Shareholder information
Taxation information for shareholders
This statement is based upon UK and US tax laws and practices US shareholders
at the date of this report. It is intended only as a general guide.
The following is a summary of certain UK taxation and USA federal
Holders are advised to consult their advisers with respect to the tax
income tax considerations that may be relevant to a US holder of
consequences of the purchase and ownership of their shares or
shares or ADR. This summary only applies to a shareholder that
ADR, and the consequences under state and local tax laws in the
holds shares or ADR as capital assets, is a citizen or resident of
USA and the implications of the current UK/US Income
the USA or a domestic corporation or that is otherwise subject
Tax convention.
to United States federal income taxation on a net income basis
US holders of ADR generally will be treated as the owners of the in respect of the shares or ADR, and is not resident in the UK for
underlying shares for the purposes of the current USA/UK double UK tax purposes and does not hold shares for the purposes of a
taxation conventions relating to income and gains (Income Tax trade, profession or vocation that is carried on in the UK through a
Convention), estate and gift taxes (Estate and Gift Tax Convention) branch or agency.
and for the purposes of the US Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
Taxation of dividends
amended (the Code).
The gross amount of dividends received (without reduction for any
UK shareholders UK withholding tax) is treated as foreign source dividend income
for US tax purposes. It is not eligible for the dividend received
Taxation of dividends
deduction allowed to US corporations. Dividends on ADR are
From 6th April 1999, the rate of tax credits was reduced to one payable in US dollars; dividends on shares are payable in Sterling.
ninth. As a result of compensating reductions in the rate of tax on Dividends paid in pounds Sterling will be included in income in the
dividend income, there is no increase in the tax borne by UK resident US dollar amount calculated by reference to the exchange rate on
individual shareholders. Tax credits are, however, no longer repayable to the day the dividends are received by the holder. Subject to certain
shareholders with a tax liability of less than the associated tax credit. exceptions for short-term or hedged positions, an individual
eligible US holder will be subject to US taxation at a maximum rate
Taxation of capital gains
of 15% in respect of qualified dividends received before 2011.
UK shareholders may be liable for UK tax on gains on the disposal
Shareholders are advised to consult their own Tax Advisers to
of shares or ADR. For disposals made prior to 6th April 2008, they
confirm their eligibility.
may also be entitled to indexation relief and taper relief on such
sales. Indexation relief is calculated on the market value of shares Taxation of capital gains
at 31st March 1982 and on the cost of any subsequent purchases Generally, US holders will not be subject to UK capital gains tax,
from the date of such purchase. Indexation relief for individual but will be subject to US tax on capital gains realised on the sale or
shareholders ceased on 5th April 1998. A capital gain is taxed at other disposal of shares or ADR.
the marginal tax rate of the individual. For disposals after 5th April
Estate and gift taxes
2008 no indexation or taper relief will be available and a capital
Under the Estate and Gift Tax Convention, a US shareholder is not
gain will be taxed at a flat rate of 18% rather than the marginal
generally subject to UK inheritance tax.
tax rate of the individual.
Stamp duty
Inheritance tax
UK stamp duty or SDRT will, subject to certain exemptions, be
Individual shareholders may be liable to inheritance tax on the
payable on any issue or transfer of shares to the ADR custodian or
transfer of shares or ADR. Tax may be charged on the amount by
depository at a rate of 1.5% of their price (if issued), the amount
which the value of the shareholder’s estate is reduced as a result
of any consideration provided (if transferred on sale), or their value
of any transfer by way of gift or other disposal at less than full
(if transferred for no consideration).
market value.
No SDRT would be payable on the transfer of an ADR. No UK
Such a gift or other disposal is subject to both UK inheritance
stamp duty should be payable on the transfer of an ADR provided
tax and US estate or gift tax. The Estate and Gift Tax Convention
that the instrument of transfer is executed and remains at all times
would generally provide for tax paid in the USA to be credited
outside the UK. Any stamp duty on the transfer of an ADR would
against tax payable in the UK.
be payable at a rate of 0.5% of the consideration for the transfer.
Stamp duty
Any sale of the underlying shares would result in liability to UK
UK stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax (SDRT) will, subject to stamp duty or, as the case may be, SDRT at a rate of 0.5%.
certain exemptions, be payable on the purchase of shares at a rate
of 0.5% of the purchase price.GSK Annual Report 2008 207
Glossary of terms
Terms used in the Annual Report US equivalent or brief description
Accelerated capital allowances Tax allowance in excess of depreciation arising from the purchase of fixed assets that delay the
charging and payment of tax. The US equivalent of tax depreciation.
American Depositary Receipt (ADR) Receipt evidencing title to an ADS. Each GlaxoSmithKline ADR represents two Ordinary Shares.
American Depositary Shares (ADS) Listed on the New York Stock Exchange; represents two Ordinary Shares.
Basic earnings per share Basic income per share.
Called-up share capital Ordinary Shares, issued and fully paid.
CER growth Growth at constant exchange rates.
Combined Code Guidelines required by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority to address the
principal aspects of Corporate Governance.
The company GlaxoSmithKline plc.
Currency swap An exchange of two currencies, coupled with a subsequent re-exchange of those currencies,
at agreed exchange rates and dates.
Defined benefit plan Pension plan with specific employee benefits, often called ‘final salary scheme’.
Defined contribution plan Pension plan with specific contributions and a level of pension dependent upon the growth of
the pension fund.
Derivative financial instrument A financial instrument that derives its value from the price or rate of some underlying item.
Diluted earnings per share Diluted income per share.
Employee Share Ownership Plan Trusts Trusts established by the Group to satisfy share-based employee incentive plans.
Finance lease Capital lease.
Freehold Ownership with absolute rights in perpetuity.
Gearing ratio Net debt as a percentage of total equity.
The Group GlaxoSmithKline plc and its subsidiary undertakings.
Hedging The reduction of risk, normally in relation to foreign currency or interest rate movements,
by making off-setting commitments.
Intangible fixed assets Assets without physical substance, such as computer software, brands, licences, patents,
know-how and marketing rights purchased from outside parties.
Non-equity minority interest Preference shares issued by a subsidiary to outside parties.
Preference shares Shares issued at varying dividend rates that are treated as outside interests.
Profit Income.
Profit attributable to shareholders Net income.
Share capital Ordinary Shares, capital stock or common stock issued and fully paid.
Shareholders’ funds Shareholders’ equity.
Share option Stock option.
Share premium account Additional paid-up capital or paid-in surplus (not distributable).
Shares in issue The number of shares outstanding excluding Treasury shares.
Statement of recognised income and expense Statement of comprehensive income.
Subsidiary An entity in which GlaxoSmithKline holds a majority shareholding and/or exercises control.
Treasury share Treasury stock.
Turnover Revenue.208 GSK Annual Report 2008
Index
Page Page
2008 Performance overview 14 Intellectual property 17
Accounting principles and policies 107 Interest rate risk management 49
Acquisitions and disposals 150 Internal control framework 71
Adjustments reconciling profit after tax to operating cash flows 149 Inventories 132
Annual General Meeting 71,204 Investments in associates and joint ventures 131
Annual remuneration 90 Investor relations and Registrar 205
Assets held for sale 133 Key accounting judgements and estimates 111
Associates and joint ventures 121 Key performance indicators 14
Board 60 Legal proceedings 172
Business review 12 Major restructuring programmes 117
Cash and cash equivalents 133 Movements in equity 147
Chairman and CEO summary 3 Nature of trading market 204
Combined Code 76 Net debt 144
Commitments 154 New accounting requirements 112
Committee reports 73 Non-Executive Director terms, conditions and fees 88
Competition 17 Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration 91
Consolidated balance sheet 103 Notes to the financial statements 106
Consolidated cash flow statement 104 Operating profit 119
Consolidated income statement 102 Other intangible assets 129
Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense 105 Other investments 132
Consumer Healthcare 7,19,20,23,32,37,56,194 Other non-current assets 132
Contingent liabilities 144 Other non-current liabilities 144
Corporate Executive Team 62 Other operating income 119
Corporate governance 60 Other provisions 142
Critical accounting policies 41 Outlook 33
Dialogue with shareholders 68 Pensions and other post-employment benefits 134
Directors and Senior Management 98 Performance overview 14
Directors and Senior Management remuneration 89 Pharmaceutical turnover 34
Directors’ interests 92 Post balance sheet events 155
Directors’ interests in contracts 98 Presentation of the financial statements 106
Directors’ statement of responsibilities 100 Principal Group companies 169
Dividends 125 Product development pipeline 24,199
Donations to EU political organisations and EU Products 17
political expenditure 70 Property, plant and equipment 125
Earnings per share 124 Quarterly trend 188
Economy 33 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt 150
Employee costs 120 Regulation 32
Employee share schemes 164 Related party transactions 149
Employees 26 Remuneration policy 80-87
Environment, health and safety 30 Remuneration Report 78
Exchange rates 113 Report of the Directors 12
Executive Director terms, conditions and remuneration 87 Research and development 21
Finance costs 121 Responsibility 27
Finance income 120 Risk factors 50
Financial instruments and related disclosures 156 Segment information 114
Financial position and resources 43 Share capital and control 68
Financial record 188 Share capital and share premium account 146
Financial review 2007 54 Share options 92
Financial review 2008 34 Share price and dividends 203
Financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc, prepared Shareholder information 203
under UK GAAP 181 Strategy 4
Financial trends and ratios 12 Taxation 122
Five year record 196 Taxation information for shareholders 206
Foreign exchange management 49 Total equity 44
Global manufacturing and supply 20 Trade and other payables 134
Glossary of terms 207 Trade and other receivables 133
Goodwill 127 Trademarks 19
Governance and policy 64 Treasury operations 49
Improving access to medicines 27 US law and regulation 76
Incentive plans 94 World economy 33
Independent Auditors’ report 101 World market 33Our
responsibility
We want to work in a way that reflects our values Head Office and Registered Office
and the expectations of our stakeholders. Ethical, GlaxoSmithKline plc
980 Great West Road
social and environmental considerations are integral
Brentford, Middlesex TW8 9GS
to our business decision making. They are also central
United Kingdom
to achieving our challenging and inspiring mission
Tel: +44 (0)20 8047 5000
of improving the lives of people worldwide.
Registered number: 3888792
Find out more about our approach to corporate
Printed in the UK. The paper used in
responsibility at
the production of this document is
made from 100% post consumer waste.
www.gsk.com/responsibility The pulp is bleached using a totally
chlorine free process.