Annual Report 2022GSK Annual Report 2022
We are a global biopharma company with a purpose
to unite science, technology and talent to get ahead
of disease together.
We aim to positively impact the health of 2.5 billion
people by the end of 2030. Our bold ambitions for
patients are reflected in commitments to growth and
a step-change in performance.
We are a company where outstanding people can thrive.
Contents
Strategic report Corporate governance Investor information
Ahead Together 01 The Board and GSK Leadership Team 97 Financial record 274
2022 performance and key Chair’s governance statement 103 Product development pipeline 278
performance indicators 02 Corporate governance architecture 107 Products, competition and
Chair’s statement 04 Ahead Together – Board oversight 110 intellectual property 282
CEO’s statement 06 Key decisions and engagements 112 Principal risks and uncertainties 285
Business model 08 Board committee reports 117 Share capital and control 296
Our culture and people 10 Directors’ report 130 Dividends 298
Our external environment 12 Financial calendar 2023 299
Research and development 15 Annual General Meeting 2023 299
Remuneration report
Commercial operations: Tax information for shareholders 299
Chair’s annual statement 133
Performance: Vaccines 29 Shareholder services and contacts 302
Annual report on remuneration 136
Performance: Specialty Medicines 33 US law and regulation 304
2022 remuneration policy summary 158
Performance: General Medicines 38 Group companies 307
Responsible business 41 Glossary of terms 315
Risk management 51 Financial statements
2022 principal risks summary 53 Directors’ statement of
Climate-related financial disclosures 55 responsibilities 166
Nature-related financial disclosure 62 Independent auditor’s report 168
Employees by gender 63 Financial statements 182
Viability statement 64 Notes to the financial statements 186
Group financial review 65 Financial statements of GSK plc
prepared under UK GAAP 268
Cautionary statement
See the inside back cover of this document for the cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements.
Non-IFRS measures
We use a number of adjusted, non-International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) measures to report the performance of our business.
Total reported results represent the Group’s overall performance under IFRS. Adjusted results and other non-IFRS measures may be
considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for or superior to, information presented in accordance with IFRS. Adjusted results
and other non-IFRS measures are defined on pages 69 and 70 and reconciliations to the nearest IFRS measures are on pages 81 to 85.GSK Annual Report 2022
01
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Ahead Together
2022 was a landmark year for GSK. Following the demerger of our consumer
healthcare business to form Haleon in July, we are now a fully focused
biopharma company.
We prioritise innovation in vaccines Being a responsible business means getting
and specialty medicines, maximising ahead of disease together in the right way
the increasing opportunities to prevent
That’s why environmental, social and governance (ESG)
and treat disease impacts are embedded in our strategy and support our
sustainable performance and long-term growth. They help
At the heart of this is our R&D focus on the science
us build trust with our stakeholders, reduce risk to our
of the immune system, human genetics and advanced
operations and deliver positive social impact.
technologies, and our world-leading capabilities in
vaccines and medicines development. We focus on
four therapeutic areas: infectious diseases, HIV,
Culture at GSK is something we all own
immunology/respiratory and oncology.
It powers our purpose, drives delivery of our strategy
and helps make GSK a place where people can thrive.
We’re confident in our future Our culture of being ambitious for patients, accountable
for impact and doing the right thing is the foundation
Our bold ambitions for patients are reflected in our
for how, together, we’ll deliver for our patients, shareholders
commitments to a step-change in growth and performance
and GSK people.
over the period to 2026. This means more GSK vaccines
and medicines, including innovative new products, will
reach more people than ever before.GSK Annual Report 2022
2022 performance and key performance indicators
Financial
We delivered a step-change in commercial execution with growth across the portfolio. Prioritised
investment and cost discipline supported strong growth in operating profit and earnings per share (EPS).
Group turnover (£bn) R Turnover by product area KPI
£29.3bn
AER 19%* Vaccines
£7.9bn
CER 13%* AER 17% CER 11%
Specialty Medicines
2020 24.4
£11.3bn
AER 37% CER 29%
2021 24.7
General Medicines
2022 29.3 £10.1bn
AER 5% CER 1%
* 2022 growth excluding COVID-19 solutions AER 16% CER 10%
Total continuing operating profit (£bn) KPI Adjusted operating profit (£bn) R
£6.4bn £8.2bn
AER 48% AER 26%*
CER 31% CER 14%*
2020 6.0 2020 6.7
2021 4.4 2021 6.5
2022 6.4 2022 8.2
* 2022 growth excluding COVID-19 solutions AER 29% CER 17%
Total continuing earnings per share (p) Adjusted earnings per share (p)
110.8p 139.7p
AER 34% AER 27%*
CER 18% CER 15%*
2020 122.4p 2020 114.4p
2021 82.9p 2021 110.3p
2022 110.8p 2022 139.7p
* 2022 growth excluding COVID-19 solutions AER 31% CER 18%
Cash generated from operations attributable to continuing Free cash flow (£bn) KPI R
operations (£bn) KPI
£7.9bn £3.3bn
2020 7.7 2020 3.7
2021 7.2 2021 3.3
2022 7.9 2022 3.3
We use a number of adjusted, non-IFRS, measures to report the performance of its business. Adjusted results and other non-IFRS measures may be
considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for or superior to, information presented in accordance with IFRS. Adjusted results and other non-IFRS
measures are defined on pages 69 and 70. AER – actual exchange rate; CER – constant exchange rate.
2020 and 2021 comparative results presented in the tables above have been restated on a consistent basis from those previously published to reflect the
demerger of the Consumer Healthcare business. The presentation of continuing and discontinued operations under IFRS 5 are set out on page 192.
KPI K ey performance indicator attributable to continuing operations R L inked to executive remuneration. See pages 136 to 139 for more details
02GSK Annual Report 2022
03
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Performance summary and key performance indicators continued
Research and development
We continued to strengthen the late-stage pipeline with regulatory approvals, positive data read-outs
and strategic business development.
Innovation sales (£bn) KPI R Innovative pipeline Phase III starts R
£12.7bn 69 5
sales of products launched in the vaccines and specialty medicines including for depemokimab in
last five years including lifecycle based on the science of the eosinophilic disease, and cobolimab
innovation immune system for second-line non-small cell lung
cancers
>20 18 7
new approvals since 2017 in phase III/registration new collaborations and acquisitions
including with Affinivax, Sierra
Oncology and Spero Therapeutics
Pipeline value and progress KPI R are not reported externally because of their commercial sensitivity.
Responsible business
We continue to be recognised for our environmental and sustainability leadership. Our ESG Performance
Rating KPI is on track based on 83% of all performance metrics being met or exceeded. The metrics
cover our six new focus areas: access to healthcare, global health and health security, environment R ,
diversity, equity and inclusion R , ethical standards, and product governance (see pages 41 to 50).
1st 2nd 13%
in the Access to Medicine Index in the pharmaceuticals industry for the reduction in indirect scope 31
for 8th consecutive time S&P Global Corporate Sustainability carbon emissions
Assessment, with a score of 86 (as
at 17 February 2023)
Culture
Culture progress KPI – ambitious for patients, accountable for impact and do the right thing –
is measured through our employee surveys. Our employee engagement score was 81% in 2022
compared to 78% in 2021.
Read more on page 10
1 based on latest available data for scope 3 emissions between 2020-2021GSK Annual Report 2022
Chair’s statement
2022 was one of the most important years in GSK’s history with
strong operational and financial performance and the successful
demerger of Consumer Healthcare.
As I said last year, the programme We have created two attractive Increasing R&D productivity and
of change Emma and her team and competitive businesses with building a culture of performance,
are delivering is designed to compelling investment propositions: which take longer to embed, are
fundamentally reconstruct and a world-leading consumer healthcare critical levers of longer-term value
strengthen GSK’s operational business, and a newly focused GSK creation for GSK.
capability. Clear, ambitious priorities with a strengthened balance sheet to
Progress in R&D
have been set to sharpen commercial enable increased investment in R&D
We are making good progress in
execution and cost discipline; improve and future growth.
R&D. In the past five years, over 20
the pipeline and R&D productivity;
We are already seeing evidence of new medicines and vaccines have
tackle the Group’s structure and
the benefits of a simpler, more been approved and more than 18 new
capital allocation capacity; and shift
focused, business model. medicines are currently in late-stage
GSK’s culture to be more competitive
clinical trial development.
and performance focused. Operational performance for GSK
in 2022 was excellent, with strong It was good to see clear progress in
We are seeing clear evidence of
growth in sales of vaccines and our pipeline reflected in important
success of this strategic
specialty medicines and double-digit milestones during 2022. Our
transformation. But, as always,
growth in operating profit and EPS. respiratory syncytial virus (RSV)
there is more to do.
This is the start of a new, sustained vaccine candidate for older adults
We delivered the demerger and period of growth for the Group, with achieved exceptional phase III results,
separation of GSK’s Consumer sales and operating profit forecast to and the US Food and Drug
Healthcare business to form Haleon, grow by more than 5% and 10% Administration (FDA) approval of
a separate company listed in London, CAGR1, respectively over the period to our long-acting HIV medicine
in July. This was the largest demerger 2026. The Board is very confident in administered every two months
in Europe for 20 years and the delivery of these targets, underpinned reaffirms GSK’s leadership in next-
culmination of a huge amount of by the improvement we are seeing in generation HIV treatment and
work over several years. the Group’s commercial execution and prevention.
competitiveness.
We also remain ambitious to support
the pipeline and future growth
through business development, with
acquisitions of Sierra Oncology and
Affinivax completed during the year.
I was delighted by the seamless
transition of Tony Wood into the
Chief Scientific Officer role in August,
replacing Hal Barron. Tony is an
outstanding and highly respected
scientist and has been a key architect
in rebuilding our pipeline.
1 Compound annual growth rate
04GSK Annual Report 2022
05
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Chair’s statement continued
Engaging with shareholders While this is disappointing, the Board evolution
The Board and management company remains clear on its position Delivery of the demerger obviously
continue to maintain very significant on these matters, namely that the resulted in changes to the Board,
engagement with shareholders. scientific consensus is that there is no including departures of Vindi Banga
consistent or reliable evidence that and Vivienne Cox to Haleon and the
It is clear from these conversations
Zantac (ranitidine) increases the risk of retirement of Laurie Glimcher. I would
that the vast majority of shareholders
any cancer. The decision in December like to thank them all for their
support the strategy the company is
by the US Federal Court in Southern significant contributions to GSK over
implementing. Nevertheless – and
Florida to dismiss all claims and recent years.
despite the progress that is being
cases relating to ranitidine was very
made – the Board recognises that We committed to using the
welcome and GSK will continue to
there is more to do to increase investor opportunity of the demerger to
defend itself vigorously against claims
confidence in the ability of the Group deepen the GSK Board’s biopharma
brought at the State level.
to sustain growth over the next experience and credentials. I was
decade. Targets and governance delighted to welcome Dr Vishal Sikka
The Board did not adopt the targets and Elizabeth McKee Anderson to the
This is important as GSK has under-
for sales and operating profit growth Board during the year. Vishal is a
performed in terms of TSR and share
lightly. These commitments were a world-leading technologist and
price performance for many years and
very important demonstration of our Elizabeth has deep commercial
the Board understands the need to
confidence in the business and our expertise, across both large and
deliver on this.
determination to be held accountable specialty biopharma.
In the short term, this means for delivery.
Together with the continued
consistent, year-on-year delivery of In line with this, we introduced a new involvement of Hal Dietz and Hal
the targets for sales and operating
remuneration policy in 2022 linking Barron, I believe the scientific
profit, including successful launch of
executive remuneration to reward for credentials of GSK’s Board are
the company’s key new product
outperformance. among the strongest in the industry.
opportunities such as the RSV
vaccine in 2023. We engaged extensively with We also look forward to the future
shareholders to develop these appointment of the highly
Looking beyond 2026, successful
proposals, recognising the new reward experienced Julie Brown as our new
delivery and strengthening of the
system is a fundamental part of the CFO, starting 1 May 2023. I would like
late-stage pipeline is critical across
architecture of GSK post-separation to thank outgoing CFO Iain Mackay
vaccines and specialty medicines,
to ensure we build a performance for his outstanding work and support
including for our long-acting HIV
culture and generate sustained over the last four years.
portfolio, supported by targeted
delivery of shareholder value. While
business development. I would also like to note the
we were pleased the policy achieved
appointments of Anne Beal, who joined
Longer term, the Board is confident a positive shareholder vote, we
the Board in May 2021 as Chair of the
that the progress the company is recognise a sizeable minority of
Corporate Responsibility Committee,
making to develop industry-leading shareholders voted against. We will
and Charles Bancroft, currently Audit
AI and machine learning capabilities, continue to engage with shareholders
& Risk Committee Chair, as our new
and application of deep to demonstrate why we believe
Senior Independent Director.
understanding of genetics, can incentivising outperformance against
provide us with an edge to be able to the targets will ultimately be rewarded Finally, I would like to thank all
identify, develop and launch products through shareholder value creation. employees, partners, shareholders
that make a difference for patients and customers for their support and
Operating responsibly
and deliver value for our shareholders. commitment through the last year and
Operating responsibly is a foundation
I look forward to what promises to be
Zantac litigation stone on which GSK has been built.
an exciting 2023 for GSK.
The Group’s share price performance
We are committed to ensuring
in the second half of the year was
ESG considerations are properly
impacted by the uncertainties
embedded into our strategy.
associated with the Zantac product
liability litigation in the US. This supports long-term growth,
reduces risk and helps us build trust
Sir Jonathan Symonds
with stakeholders. The Board was
Chair
pleased to see continued progress in
many ESG areas during 2022, including
GSK again topping the independent
Access to Medicines Index.GSK Annual Report 2022
CEO’s statement
2022 was a landmark year for GSK. We enter 2023 with strong
momentum and as a focused global biopharma company.
Creating a focused global Reflecting the huge progress we have Strong operational performance has
biopharma company made to improve the competitiveness enabled us to increase annual
2022 was a landmark year for GSK. of our commercial execution, we now investment in R&D to over £5 billion
We successfully delivered the have 10 products exceeding £1 billion and, through the demerger, we have
demerger of Haleon which is the most in annual sales, including Shingrix, also significantly strengthened GSK’s
significant corporate change for the Trelegy, Nucala, Benlysta and Dovato. balance sheet, creating additional
company in 20 years, and began a Shingrix alone delivered a record year flexibility to invest in growth and
new chapter of competitive and with £3 billion of sales. HIV sales, innovation. In 2022, we acquired the
profitable growth. We enter 2023 with including Dovato, were £5.7 billion, Boston-based vaccine company,
strong momentum and as a focused up 12% CER. Affinivax, which gave us access to
global biopharma company with the disruptive MAPS technology – for
Vaccines and Specialty Medicines
the ambition and purpose to unite higher valency and broader coverage
now represent nearly two-thirds of
science, technology and talent, to in a single vaccine – and a phase II
our sales, compared to 46% in 2017,
get ahead of disease together. next-generation 24-valent vaccine
and we are well on track to achieve
for pneumococcal disease. We also
Strong 2022 performance increases our target of 75% of revenues from
acquired Sierra Oncology, including
confidence in delivering growth Vaccines and Specialty Medicines by
the myelofibrosis treatment,
through 2026 and beyond 2026. This evolving portfolio, together
momelotinib, which we hope to see
Group sales were £29.3 billion in with prioritised investment in
approved in 2023, and signed an
2022, up 13% CER, driven by strong innovation and good cost discipline,
exclusive licence agreement with
growth in both Vaccines and Specialty is reflected in the further expansion
Spero Therapeutics for tebipenem,
Medicines. Adjusted operating profit of our operating margin.
a novel oral antibiotic in late-stage
grew 14% and adjusted EPS by 15%
development for complicated urinary
(both CER).
tract infections (cUTIs). We expect
to do more targeted business
development in 2023.
In addition, we generated over
£3.3 billion of free cash flow in 2022,
supporting investments and a
dividend of 61.25 pence per share
for the year.
Our strong momentum underpins our
confidence in delivering the ambitious
sales and profit outlooks we have
set for 2026. At the same time, we
continue to build a stronger portfolio
and pipeline based on science of the
immune system, to absorb the loss
of revenues from future patent
expirations, and to put us in a strong
position to deliver growth through the
decade and beyond.
06GSK Annual Report 2022
07
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
CEO’s statement continued
Innovation supports future growth With bepirovirsen, which is now In June 2022, we introduced our new
We now have a pipeline of 69 undergoing final stage trials, and Code, which sets out our culture, as
vaccines and specialty medicines, other assets in our pipeline, we aim to well as commitments GSK and our
many with the potential to be first- be at the forefront of a new wave of people make, so we can deliver our
or best-in-class. treatments for this ancient disease. ambition and purpose in the right way.
In August, Tony Wood took up his new In HIV, we launched Apretude, the Our ESG focus is on: access to
role as GSK’s Chief Scientific Officer, first and only long-acting injectable healthcare, global health and health
succeeding Hal Barron. With his for HIV prevention which, alongside security, environment, diversity, equity
proven expertise in science, data and Cabenuva, the first and only complete and inclusion, ethical standards, and
new technologies, Tony is well placed long-acting HIV treatment regimen, product governance. In 2022, we
to capture the value and opportunities means we are changing the made excellent progress, maintaining
we see with our R&D approach. landscape for HIV patients. We also our number one position in the
made further progress during the year Access to Medicines Index for the 8th
We are focused across four core
in the development of next-generation consecutive time and ranking 2nd in
therapeutic areas: infectious diseases;
pipeline options, including presenting the S&P Corporate Sustainability
HIV; immunology/respiratory and
promising early-stage data for N6LS, Assessment for the pharmaceutical
oncology. Overall, infectious diseases
our new broadly neutralising antibody, industry.
and HIV represent around two-thirds
and we look forward to providing
of our pipeline and our primary focus As I talked about last year, investors
further visibility on these pipeline
for R&D. and other stakeholders are
options during 2023.
demanding transparent reporting of
In infectious diseases, we have
In immunology/respiratory, we performance on ESG matters. We are
developed a potential best-in-class increased R&D investment to introducing a new ESG Performance
vaccine for RSV in older adults.
support the phase III programme for Rating, to track delivery. I am pleased
We were excited to present the
depemokimab, a promising potential to report that our performance in
phase III results in late 2022, which
new long-acting medicine to treat 2022 is ‘on track’ with details set out
demonstrated 94%1 efficacy against
severe asthma – an area in which on page 42.
severe disease – an exceptional result.
GSK has long-standing expertise and
The world has been waiting more than As Jon has made clear on the Zantac
proven commercial capability. In
50 years for an RSV vaccine, so this is product liability litigation in the US,
oncology, we reported very positive
a significant scientific achievement. the scientific consensus is that there is
data for Jemperli as a potential
We have submitted this data to no consistent or reliable evidence that
treatment for patients with primary
regulators and hope to see approval Zantac (ranitidine) increases the risk of
advanced or recurrent endometrial
during 2023. Alongside our existing any cancer. We will continue to defend
cancer. Following discussions with the
in-house capabilities, such as ourselves vigorously in the State cases.
FDA, we took the decision to withdraw
adjuvants, MAPS through our Affinivax From my perspective, it is important
Blenrep from the US market in
acquisition and our collaboration with that as we do that, the company does
November, based on the previously
CureVac in mRNA, we now have the not get distracted from our main
announced outcome of the
broadest suite of vaccine platform priority – continuing to deliver on our
DREAMM-3 trial.
technologies of any company in strategy for patients, shareholders
the sector. Building trust, reducing risk and and our people.
delivering positive social impact
We also made important advances Looking ahead with confidence
We are committed to running a
in the clinical development of two As we enter 2023, I believe GSK has
responsible business, which builds
late-stage assets: gepotidacin, a new compelling prospects. As ever, its our
trust and reduces risk to deliver
novel antibiotic for uncomplicated people who fuel this confidence and
sustainable health impact at scale,
urinary tract infections (uUTIs), and I want to thank them for all they have
shareholder returns and to support
bepirovirsen, which has the potential achieved during 2022 and the strong
our people to thrive.
to provide a first-in-class functional momentum they are delivering. I am
cure for chronic hepatitis B, where As we set out later in this report, very optimistic for the future and
there remains a significant unmet we are making good progress in excited by what we can achieve
medical need. One in three people strengthening our culture, which is key together.
around the globe have been infected to how we deliver our ambition and
with the virus and more than 300 purpose. We are committed to making
million are living with chronic hepatitis GSK a place where talented people
B infection today. Current standard of can thrive, with a culture where we are
care for chronic hepatitis B achieves all ambitious for patients, accountable Emma Walmsley
functional cure for very few patients, for impact, and do the right thing. Chief Executive Officer
fewer than 5%.
1 Vaccine efficacy (VE) 94% (1 of 12,466 versus 17 of 12,494)GSK Annual Report 2022
Business model
Our ambition is to positively impact the health of 2.5 billion people
by the end of 2030. We aim to do this by developing transformational
vaccines and medicines and making them available at responsible prices
that are accessible for patients and sustainable for our business.
Central to our success are our people: experts in science,
technology, manufacturing, regulation, intellectual property
and commercialisation...
69,400 >80 24,000
GSK people countries worldwide suppliers working directly
with GSK
£5.5bn 37 4
R&D investment in 2022 manufacturing sites global R&D centres
up by 9% at AER, 4% at CER
...who are identifying, researching, developing and
testing ground-breaking discoveries, and manufacturing
and commercialising...
Vaccines Specialty Medicines General Medicines
We deliver one and a half million Our portfolio of specialty medicines Our portfolio of more than 150
doses of our vaccines every day; and prevent and treat diseases, from HIV products encompasses all of GSK’s
around 40% of the world’s children and respiratory diseases, to immuno- primary care medicines, supplied
receive a GSK vaccine each year. inflammation diseases like lupus, to in 112 countries worldwide.
cancer. Many are first or best-in-class.
08GSK Annual Report 2022
09
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Business model continued
...products that improve the health of millions of people
around the world in our core therapeutic areas...
Infectious diseases HIV Immunology/respiratory Oncology
We are a world leader in Our goal is to minimise We’re unlocking the science Our emerging portfolio
infectious diseases like the impact of HIV on of the immune system to in oncology will potentially
shingles and meningitis, people’s lives through understand how it reacts bring new cancer
which, including HIV, treatment, prevention to diseases like lupus, therapies to the patients
account for two-thirds of and ultimately cure. eosinophilic asthma and who need them most.
the vaccines and medicines other inflammatory diseases.
in our pipeline.
...steered by our long-term priorities...
Innovation Performance Trust
We develop new medicines and We've made commitments to growth We deliver our strategy responsibly:
vaccines where they are needed, and a significant step-change always considering the ESG impacts
with better, faster and smarter R&D. in delivery. of everything we do from lab to
patient, helping to build trust with
We’re combining the power of We are confident in our ability to
our stakeholders, reduce risk to our
genetic and genomic insights sustain growth through the decade
operations and deliver positive
into the causes of disease, with and beyond.
social impact.
the speed and scale of artificial
intelligence and machine learning.
...and creating value for:
Patients Shareholders Society
2.3bn 61.25p £1.3bn
packs of medicines and per share dividend corporate income tax paid; in
doses of vaccines delivered addition we pay duties, levies,
transactional and employment taxes
Our people
All our people are supported to grow, be well and do work that really matters.
Reinvestment
The returns we make enable us to reinvest in discovering and developing new vaccines and medicines
so we can continue getting ahead of disease.
Company directors are required by law to promote the success of their organisation for the benefit of both shareholders
and their wider stakeholders, including employees, suppliers and the community. Information on the issues, factors and
stakeholders that the Board considers relevant to complying with Section 172 (a) to (f) of the Companies Act 2006 can
be found on page 112.
O ur business model is supported by our ESG strategy, O ur strategy is supported by a robust framework for
described on page 42 monitoring and managing risk, described on pages 51 and 52GSK Annual Report 2022
Our culture and people
GSK’s purpose – to unite science, technology and talent to
get Ahead of disease Together – puts our people at the heart
of our success.
Our culture Supporting our people managers
We are committed to making GSK a place where people Our people managers play a crucial role in helping their
can thrive, with a culture where we are all ambitious for teams to thrive and bring culture to life. We expect people
patients, accountable for impact, and do the right thing. managers to Motivate, Focus, Care for and Develop their
This means we support our people to do things better and teams. Over the last two years we have delivered First Line
faster, focusing on what matters most. It means setting Leader training, anchored in these four areas, to over 80%
clear objectives and accountability for results and giving of this population. In addition, in 2022, we launched a new
everyone the support and space they need to succeed. It senior leader programme, Leading Leaders, to further build
means doing everything responsibly with care and integrity, on our leadership development at more senior levels of the
because people and patients around the world count on us. organisation.
During 2022, we have dedicated significant leadership In preparation for 2023, we brought all people managers
energy in bringing to life our Ahead Together purpose, together in a virtual event to bring to life our biggest
strategy and culture across GSK. We have also placed real priorities and support managers in setting focused,
emphasis on individual ownership of the culture and the ambitious objectives with their teams, aligned to our
small changes we each need to make it a reality. This Innovation, Performance, Trust and Culture priorities.
change has been supported by team conversation guides
and simple tools used globally to support better and faster Focusing on diversity, equity and inclusion
decision making, greater clarity of accountabilities and
We are continuing our focus on building a more diverse
more ambitious, focused objectives.
organisation and an equitable and inclusive culture so
In June, we introduced The Code. This sets out our culture that everyone feels welcome, valued and included. We
as well as the commitments GSK and our people make so are delivering our leadership representation aspirations,
we can deliver on our ambition in the right way. GSK people have implemented annual diversity, equity and inclusion
sign up to The Code annually and personally commit ‘I’m in’. (DEI) training for all, and invested in development tools to
build more inclusive leaders. We support an award-winning
See The Code on gsk.com1 leadership development programme, Accelerating
Difference, to support women and ethnically diverse
Making GSK a place where people thrive leaders. We have also continued to evolve our people
Core to our Ahead Together ambition is to make GSK a policies, processes and practices to support recruitment,
place where people thrive. Although how people thrive is retention and development of a more diverse workforce.
very individual, we also believe there are common themes More details on our aspirational targets for DEI for our
that matter for all. Firstly, a belief in our purpose and a people, business and suppliers, can be found in the
desire to live our culture and contribute to delivering our Responsible Business section on page 47.
ambition. Secondly, feeling included and able to be yourself
with opportunities to keep growing, with the support, Driving Performance with Choice
feedback and space needed to succeed. And finally, feeling
Performance with Choice – our approach to hybrid working
good, with positive mental, physical, financial and social
for those in office-based roles (about a quarter of our
wellbeing. This all requires GSK to be a place where people
people) continues to allow us to find the right balance of
feel welcome and valued, with an environment (including
on-site and remote working. This framework, balanced in
our policies, workplaces and ways of working) which
driving collective and individual performance, as well as
wholeheartedly enables and supports each person to
supporting individual flexibility, is supporting personal
deliver at their best.
wellbeing, driving performance and making us attractive
as an employer.
This year we have been clear in our expectations so that we
spend enough time together in person to help us continue
to build our sense of community, connectedness, enable
development and better achieve our Ahead Together
ambition.
1 https://www.gsk.com/en-gb/company/governance/compliance/#the-code
10GSK Annual Report 2022
11
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Our culture and people continued
Developing outstanding people Understanding how our people experience GSK
We are committed to developing outstanding people and We regularly measure how our people experience GSK,
giving people opportunities to grow. All GSK people including progress in our culture focus areas and as a place
are expected to have an agreed development plan, to work. This includes an annual survey for all employees
regardless of grade or role, that is underpinned by a robust featuring questions on engagement, confidence, inclusivity,
conversation to understand the space and support needed our culture focus areas and trust priorities. We also run
for them to succeed. We continue to invest in development a series of pulse surveys each year, with a statistically
initiatives and training that can be accessed by all through significant population, to get timely insights on our culture
our Keep Growing Campus – a central platform for our progress as well as hot topics of the moment. Over the
training and knowledge sharing. last year, our progress is demonstrated by increased
engagement at 81% in 2022, up from 78% in 2021,
In 2022, we have also redesigned our talent framework –
confidence in delivery of our ambitions, and positive
focusing our reviews for our people against performance,
trends in Ambitions for Patients, Accountability for Impact,
living our culture and future potential. This gives us a
Doing the Right Thing, and measures of inclusion.
simpler assessment process, in line with our culture, to
support placing our best people in our most critical roles, To measure the effectiveness of our global manager
with strong and diverse succession plans. This allows us to population, their teams provide feedback via an annual
spend more time on development and action planning and One80 survey. Managers receive anonymised aggregate
less on process. feedback on their effectiveness in motivating their team,
focusing people on what matters most, leading with care,
Health and wellbeing improvements inclusive leadership and supporting performance and
development. In 2022, 77% of our managers were rated
We have announced improvements to our health and
as highly effective by their reports.
wellbeing benefits, to better support people through
different life stages and to make sure our offerings are
fair and inclusive. These include a new global minimum Recognising and rewarding our people
standard of 18 weeks’ parental leave for primary and Sharing our success and recognising and rewarding our
secondary carers for all forms of family, a new global people, not just on the progress we have made but how
minimum standard for care of a family member for end we have made it, continues to be an important part of
of life or serious health emergencies, insured benefits our culture. In addition to our bonus scheme that rewards
to include same sex partners wherever possible, a new performance across the company, each year we award
financial wellbeing service and mental health training – 10% of our population with extra ‘Ahead Together’ awards
available to everyone. for those delivering exceptional performance in line with
our culture. And 5% of people are identified as Missed
In November, we gave a one-time discretionary payment
Performance for those that do not deliver on their
to our people who were feeling the greatest impact of
objectives or live the culture. This year, in addition
rising cost-of-living challenges. This payment was given
to our annual bonus and long-term incentive structure,
to almost half of our global workforce in 47 of our 83
we also gave a special thank you to all our people
countries, using consistent criteria to determine eligible
(excluding the GSK Leadership Team (GLT)), allowing us
countries.
to recognise in real time what we achieved together in
preparation for separation and the unprecedented
transformation of GSK: everyone received a one-off week’s
salary in March, separate to our 2021 bonus pay-out.
We remain energised to continually live and evolve our
culture in line with the internal and external environment.
It is part of everyone's objectives, starting at the top, with
all leadership team members having ambitious goals to
embed and grow culture, and shows up in how we act
every day.GSK Annual Report 2022
Our external environment
Here, we set out five major themes that have influenced our environment –
and how we work with governments, regulators and industry partners to keep
providing medicines and vaccines to patients worldwide.
Life sciences continue to be shaped by new technology
Rapid advances in science and underscored the potential of new infrastructure for responsible access to
technology are changing life sciences technologies and approaches to public datasets. As AI/ML advances,
R&D. This is particularly evident in the improve patient outcomes. Growth different regulatory approaches on the
expansion of artificial intelligence and areas include next-generation use of AI in medicines are emerging.
machine learning (AI/ML), which has vaccines, where there has been a
Collaboration is also needed to create
the potential to transform outcomes for substantial increase in assets in
common models and standards for AI
patients by making R&D more precise development, driven by the
regulation that support innovation
and productive. Research has advancement of mRNA and DNA
and benefit patients.
identified nearly 270 companies vaccine technology.
R ead about our focus on data and
working in the AI-driven drug discovery Greater use of new technologies
platform technologies on pages 18 and 19
industry.1 We're investing in building our and digital tools, as well as growth
own AI/ML capabilities and forging of decentralised trials, is accelerating
partnerships to further strengthen our a drive towards modernisation of
270
position. Other biopharma companies clinical trial and regulatory processes.
are also collaborating with AI
Governments and regulators are
organisations, with 46 partnerships
continuing to build on lessons learned companies working in the
struck in 2022, compared to 28 in 2016.2
from COVID-19 and expand AI-driven drug discovery industry
The pivotal role of innovation in international collaboration on complex
managing the COVID-19 pandemic trials and further develop policies and
Geopolitical tensions prompt countries to shift their priorities and focus
Scientific and technological advances that governments recognise the the US, Europe and the UK. In March
offer significant promise for patients. importance of minimising trade 2022, the US enacted a new federal
But geopolitical tensions are putting friction. But domestic interests remain agency – Advanced Research
pressure on the systems needed to the priority with governments Projects Agency for Health – to
deliver this innovation. Rising encouraging companies to localise improve the government’s ability to
nationalism and friction between and shorten value chains3, prioritising speed biomedical and health research.
countries, due to the conflict in strategic resilience over efficiency. Life sciences was earmarked as a key
Ukraine and tensions between the Policies to restrict trade and secure strength in the UK government’s new
US and China, bring potential risk access to essential items including Growth Plan.5 Given their potential to
and disruption. In the face of these medical goods have persisted. For bolster economic productivity and
tensions, governments are taking more example, in 2022, governments protect lives, healthcare and life
interventionist actions to protect their introduced over 150 harmful policy sciences are likely to be subject to
domestic economic competitiveness, interventions affecting trade in more muscular industrial policy
strengthen national security, create pharmaceutical goods.4 interventions such as additional
domestic jobs and improve public support for R&D, as well as state
In an environment defined by tensions,
health. scrutiny over supply chain resilience.
trade disruption and economic
There were notable examples of uncertainty, health and life sciences
solidarity during the year. Constructive continue to be viewed as sectors of
World Trade Organization discussions strategic importance for governments >150
about reducing tariffs demonstrated across advanced markets, including
In 2022, governments
1 AI in biopharma research: A time to focus and scale | McKinsey 10 October 2022 introduced over 150 harmful
2 Deep Pharma Intelligence, Artificial Intelligence for Drug Discovery Landscape Overview Q3 2022 policy interventions affecting
3 KPMG Singapore, six key trends impacting global supply chains in 2022 trade in pharmaceutical goods
4 Global Trade Alert
5 HM Treasury, The Growth Plan 2022, September 2022
12GSK Annual Report 2022
13
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Our external environment continued
Economic slowdown as energy crisis and inflation bite
Lockdowns at the height of the vaccination programmes. But concerns over negotiation provisions,
pandemic weighed on economies spending is estimated to have fallen in allowing the federal health secretary
worldwide and the outlook continued real terms during 2022 as it failed to to negotiate prices of certain
to weaken in 2022. Global growth keep pace with inflation.7 Medicines expensive drugs each year for
was forecast to slow to 3.2% in 20226 spending is expected to return to Medicare. This could potentially
amid surging inflation, heightened pre-pandemic growth rates by 2024, limit investment in innovation.
geopolitical uncertainty and albeit with pricing and value under
As well as cost containment, we
tightening financial conditions. Energy increasing scrutiny over the next few
are also seeing more examples of
prices soared across Europe due to years due to economic pressures and
innovative contracting to support
increased demand and restricted geopolitical disruption.8
prudent stewardship of healthcare
supply, contributing to rising inflation.
As governments meet economic spending. Companies and payers
This has had immediate and
headwinds, cost containment are continuing to explore innovative
challenging consequences for
measures are on the rise, with pricing models, which facilitate
individuals and businesses.
healthcare budgets facing significant patient access and support payer
With energy prices climbing, pressures in the UK, EU and other confidence in the value of a medicine
governments have staged significant advanced markets. In August 2022, or vaccine at the time of launch.
and costly interventions to protect the US President signed into law the
R ead more about pricing and access
households, seek alternative energy Inflation Reduction Act. This includes
on page 43
sources, and invest in renewable provisions to drive down US national
energy infrastructure. Government debt through higher taxes, lowering
interventions on this scale risk growing energy costs, and lowering drug
3.2%
fiscal deficits and put pressure on prices. Parts of the Act that focus
other areas of public spending, on patients are welcome as they
including healthcare. During the bring benefits to people who would
Global growth was forecast
pandemic, healthcare spending otherwise face challenges accessing
to slow to 3.2% in 2022
increased as governments rolled out important vaccines. But there are
Green transition disrupted but long-term momentum remains
The energy crisis has not only Investor sentiment, particularly in Despite the disruption seen during
weakened economies, but also the US, has seen similar shifts as the 2022, getting ahead of climate
disrupted the green transition. Amid ESG agenda becomes increasingly change remains a long-term
concerns over reliability, supply and polarised and politicised. During the investor and societal expectation,
affordability, policymakers face year, Florida and Texas implemented and a government priority. This was
conflicting priorities. While energy measures banning their pension funds reinforced by the $369 billion clean
transition is necessary to mitigate from investing through any asset energy investment in the US Inflation
climate change, immediate energy managers that have policies on Reduction Act. Any setback to the
needs are driving renewed investment excluding fossil fuels or taking ESG energy transition is likely to be time-
in traditional fossil fuel energy sources. factors into account. limited, so companies must continue
European countries announced plans to demonstrate leadership on the
Against this fractured backdrop,
to revert to higher coal usage to issue and remain committed to cutting
corporate net zero efforts remain
produce electricity, while the US has their climate impact.
in the spotlight with stakeholder
taken steps such as reopening oil and
expectations on credibility and R ead more about climate and nature
gas leasing on public lands.
transparency on net zero continuing on pages 45 and 46
to rise. But voluntary commitments
and coalitions are being tested with,
for example, the UN-backed Race to $369bn
Zero dropping its explicit bar on
support for new coal projects.
allocated to climate and clean
energy programmes in the US
Inflation Reduction Act
6 IMF, World Economic Outlook, October 2022
7 Economist Intelligence Unit, Healthcare outlook 2023 (eiu.com)
8 IQVIA, Global Use of Medicines 2023GSK Annual Report 2022
Our external environment continued
Access in focus as COVID-19 shines light on health inequity
COVID-19 demonstrated the value Industry has sought to encourage a and treatment during the pandemic
of the life sciences sector and the more holistic approach to realising could have an adverse effect on
potential for delivering innovative equitable and timely access during survival for years to come. As health
interventions at speed. But the future pandemics. This recognises the systems continue to manage the
pandemic also raised questions about multiple factors that enable access, long-term repercussions of the
the pace at which medicines and such as sustainable funding and pandemic, there is an opportunity to
vaccines could be rolled out, shining free trade. The international move towards new models of care
a light on inequalities in access and pharmaceutical industry, along with that enable earlier action to prevent,
healthcare outcomes both within and biotechs and vaccine manufacturers diagnose and treat disease. Investing
between countries. Around 26% of based in developing countries, united in prevention to get ahead of disease
people in low-income countries are behind a vision for access in future has a clear return. It improves health
partially or fully vaccinated against pandemics, known as the Berlin outcomes, is cost-effective, and
COVID-19, compared with 80% in Declaration. This outlined industry’s contributes to healthier lives, societies
high-income countries.9 willingness to reserve an allocation of and economies.
real-time production for distribution
Scrutiny of the COVID-19 vaccine S ee pages 43 to 45 for more on pricing
to priority populations during future
rollout has reignited the debate and access, and global health and
pandemics. The success of such an health security
around the intersection between
approach will rely on having a strong
intellectual property (IP) rights and
innovation ecosystem; removal of
access to medicines and vaccines.
regulatory and trade barriers to 26%
This was evidenced by the TRIPS
export; procurement mechanisms
waiver, agreed in June 2022, which
for low- and middle-income countries;
temporarily removes developing
and robust health systems. of people in low-income
country obligations on patent
countries are partially or fully
protections for COVID-19 vaccines. More resilient health systems are
vaccinated against COVID-19
Such a step doesn't address needed not only to counter the
inequitable access and instead increasing threat of infectious disease
undermines industry’s ability to emergencies, but also to manage the
partner, invest at risk, and respond growing burden of non-communicable
quickly to future pandemics. diseases. Delays to cancer diagnosis
Our position
In a challenging economic and advocating for appropriate IP risk and uncertainty, while also
political landscape, it's more protections; a balanced regulatory recognising the full health, social
important than ever that we invest in framework that supports the discovery and economic value of innovative
a pipeline of vaccines and specialty and delivery of vaccines and medicines and vaccines. We also
medicines that will meet changing medicines developed through continue to collaborate with global
and unmet healthcare needs. At the emerging technologies; and health partners to increase our reach
same time, we have to work with reinforcing the importance of global, to patients in lower income countries.
governments, regulators and industry diversified supply chains.
To support delivery of innovative
partners to make sure these medicines
As the pricing environment becomes medicines and vaccines, we continue
and vaccines can reach patients,
tougher, we are well placed to offer to advocate for investment in resilient
bringing value to both the people
a differentiated, high-value pipeline healthcare systems around the world.
who need them and payers.
across prevention and treatment of More robust infrastructure is needed
Scientific innovation and improving disease. This is built on using new to support, for example, routine
health remain a critical pathway to technology and techniques to make life-course immunisation. Getting
sustainable economic growth. We our R&D faster and smarter. Demand ahead of future pandemics, and
therefore continue to work with our for data and real-world evidence to managing them more effectively when
peers and governments to make support continued reimbursement of they do happen, starts with investing
sure that the policy and regulatory new products is likely to increase. We in health systems and improving
environment stimulates and sustains continue to work with payers to design public health now.
innovation. This includes, for example, innovative solutions that manage their
9 Financial Times, COVID-19 vaccine tracker: the global race to vaccinate, as at 23 December 2022
14GSK Annual Report 2022
Research and
development
Science and technology have never before opened up so many possibilities
for new vaccines and medicines for patients. In 2022, we’ve continued to
harness the science of the immune system alongside genetics, genomics
and advanced technology to continue to strengthen our pipeline.
SSStttrrraaattteeegggiiiccc
rrreeepppooorrrttt
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
15GSK Annual Report 2022
Research and development
Highlights
69 >20 2/3rds
vaccines and medicines new approvals of our pipeline comes from
in the pipeline since 2017 infectious diseases and HIV
– Potential best-in-class RSV older adults – Expansion of depemokimab phase III
candidate vaccine filed in US, EU, Japan programme with trials for long-acting IL-5
– Shingrix interim 10-year data presented at inhibitor in three additional eosinophil-driven
ID Week 2022 diseases
– Continued progress in development of long- – Business development including: acquisition
acting HIV treatments; positive phase II data of Affinivax giving access to disruptive MAPS
on N6LS broadly-neutralising antibody technology and phase II next-generation
presented at HIV Glasgow vaccine for pneumococcal disease;
acquisition of Sierra Oncology adding
– Pivotal phase III trials for gepotidacin
momelotinib for myelofibrosis patients with
antibiotic for uUTIs stopped early for efficacy
anaemia (regulatory submission EU, US); and
– Positive phase IIb data for bepirovirsen,
exclusive licence with Spero Therapeutics
our investigational treatment for chronic
giving access to tebipenem HBr, a late-stage
hepatitis B, and started phase III study in
antibiotic for cUTIs
early 2023
Our R&D approach Our research team takes an approach that follows the
science to identify opportunities with the greatest
R&D is central to our purpose to get ahead of disease
probability of success to lead to differentiated vaccines and
together. By combining the science of the immune system,
medicines, including opportunities outside these four areas.
genetics, genomics, advanced technologies and outstanding
Our scientists prioritise genetically identified targets that are
talent, we discover and develop vaccines and medicines to
at least twice as likely to succeed in the clinic. They also
make a transformational impact on people’s lives.
prioritise infectious disease targets and immune-modulators
In 2022, R&D expenditure was £5,488 million, up 9% at that have greater lifecycle opportunities.
AER, 4% at CER, from 2021 and we have strengthened
our pipeline and platform capabilities through strategic
Prioritising execution and technology
business development. This means we have 22 vaccines
Our priorities are:
and 47 medicines in development (see page 28). Many have
the potential to be first-in-class. – flawless execution of our late-stage pipeline and
acceleration of our organically derived pipeline
Our late-stage R&D aligns to four therapeutic areas:
– doubling down on technology to deliver further innovation
– infectious diseases, see page 20 faster
– HIV, see page 23 – finding new ways to help patients through lifecycle
– immunology/respiratory, see page 24 innovation
– oncology, see page 25 – targeted business development to push towards new
discoveries
16GSK Annual Report 2022
17
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Research and development continued
Flawless execution and acceleration of Finding new ways to help patients through
our pipeline lifecycle innovation
Our pipeline, across all phases, has 69 potential vaccines We look to innovate throughout the lifecycle of our vaccines
and medicines, more than 70% of them modulating the and medicines by exploring new ways for them to treat
immune system and more than 70% with human genetic patients. Examples include:
validation. In 2022, we started 16 phase I programmes,
– approval in the US for Boostrix, for immunisation during
moved nine candidates into phase II and started five phase
pregnancy to prevent whooping cough in newborn babies
III programmes.
– FDA approval for a new, more convenient presentation
We also achieved industry-leading milestones, including the of our Rotarix vaccine to prevent gastroenteritis caused
approval and launch of the first long-acting HIV medicines by rotavirus
and the FDA priority review of the exceptional RSV older
– approval for Priorix, our vaccine against measles, mumps
adult vaccine candidate with a potential best-in-class
and rubella, in the US for children over 12 months
profile. We also presented new data at IDWeek 2022
showing that Shingrix can provide at least 10 years of – approval of a two-dose regimen for Cervarix, our human
protection against shingles in the over 50s, and completed papillomavirus vaccine for girls aged 9 to 14, in China
our acquisition of Affininax. – approval in China for Benlysta to treat adults with active
lupus nephritis (LN) and FDA approval for Benlysta for
We have made significant progress in improving key
paediatric patients with active LN
measures of productivity. We reduced overall cycle times by
20% from the start of new drug discovery projects through to – continue to develop a new monoclonal antibody,
the end of phase I (for 2019-2021 compared to 2016-2018), depemokimab, under development for its high affinity
and we now have a phase I portfolio that includes many and long-acting suppression of IL-5 function
potential first-in-class medicines.
Pushing towards new discoveries through
strategic business development
Doubling down on technology to deliver further
We work with commercial organisations and academic
innovation faster
institutions to find new research and discovery
We believe the combination of science and technology
opportunities, access new technology platforms or to
holds the key to fundamentally transforming medical
progress the development of our pipeline. We remain agile
discovery, improving success rates and shaping how we
and ambitious, looking for opportunities that address high
treat and prevent even the most challenging diseases. This
unmet medical needs and complement our R&D strategy.
is why technology plays a growing role in progressing our
R&D towards vaccines and medicines not previously We look to grow our pipeline through acquisitions. In 2022,
thought possible. It covers: these included Affinivax adding a novel class of next-
generation pneumococcal vaccine candidates and
– data technology, which helps us to understand the
innovative MAPS technology (see page 20), and Sierra
patient and human biology, choose targets and design
Oncology adding momelotinib for the treatment of
clinical trials. We have access to large, rich datasets
mylefibrosis (see page 25).
thanks to our data-focused collaborations, including our
recent collaboration with Tempus (see page 19) as well as We also announced five new collaborations, giving
established partnerships, for example with 23andMe, the us access to exciting new vaccines, medicines and
UK Biobank, and the Laboratory of Genomic Research technologies, and deepening our understanding of how
with the University of California (see page 18) to prevent and treat disease. We partnered with precision
– platform technology, for the efficient design and medicine company Tempus, with oncology being a first
development of new vaccines and medicines. We have area of focus. We added to our pipeline through new
access to a broad set of platform technologies, including partnerships with Mersana Therapeutics for an option
an unrivalled suite within vaccines like mRNA, MAPS to co-develop and commercialise their XMT-2056
and adjuvant science, and a growing investment in immunosynthen antibody-drug conjugate in oncology, with
oligonucleotides (see page 19) WuXi to progress bi-specific T-cell engaging antibodies for
oncology and with Zheming to progress a phase I TLR8
agonist for hepatitis B virus (HBV). We announced a new
partnership with Wave Life Sciences to drive discovery and
development of oligonucleotide therapeutics, including a
programme for alpha-1-antitrypsin deficiency with a novel
RNA-editing mechanism of action, and we also announced
an exclusive licence agreement with Spero Therapeutics for
tebipenem HBr, a late-stage antibiotic that may treat cUTIs.GSK Annual Report 2022
Research and development continued
Genetics, genomics and advanced technologies
To get ahead of disease, we use innovative tools to Several collaborations in functional genomics are providing
maximise our chances of success and accelerate the further insight to improve our target selection. We work with
pace of discovery. Genomics and the predictive power a range of institutions innovating in this fast-moving field,
of AI/ML are changing how we find the right medicines for from CRISPR pioneers to start-ups. In the US, this includes
the right patients. dedicated genomics research centres, such as the Altius
Institute in Seattle and the Broad Institute affiliated with
Advanced technologies and real-world data are bringing
MIT and Harvard University in Boston. We continue to
patients into the discovery and development process
partner with Adrestia, a British biotech, and with Open
earlier. This, in turn, improves how researchers can integrate
Targets, a UK consortium where we're a founding member.
data into decision making. For diseases like cancer or
neurological conditions, we're investigating how tools like These advances complement the progress we're making at
genetic validation, wearables, genomics and AI/ML can the genomics lab we founded in 2019 with CRISPR pioneers
provide important insights that make us better at choosing at the University of California in San Francisco. The
drug targets and the specific groups of patients in which to Laboratory for Genomic Research is now advancing a
study them. portfolio of 16 active technology and biology projects.
By automating and advancing CRISPR, our scientists work
Data produced using these tools helps us:
side by side with academic researchers to uncover new
– select novel targets that are genetically validated and so knowledge about disease mechanisms for immunology,
more likely to become approved medicines and vaccines oncology and neurology. Scientists are creating new
– design clinical trials to include the patients most likely to technologies that stem from CRISPR, and they are
benefit from our potential medicines and vaccines identifying additional applications of these technologies
to find better starting points for new medicines.
– recruit these patients faster, and accelerate the pace of
our clinical trials CRISPR and other tools contribute to the data we have
to understand the underlying causes of disease. Other
Improving drug discovery with the power of information sources range from tissue and blood samples
genomics and partnerships to human behaviour from wearable technology. Our
Today, more than 70% of the projects in our pipeline are proprietary AI/ML capabilities help our researchers
supported by human genetic evidence, informed by the interpret this volume of data and also make connections
large genetic datasets from our ongoing collaborations and predictions that help identify which targets are most
with the UK Biobank, 23andMe and FinnGen. In 2022, we likely to succeed. As assets move through our pipeline, both
were a founding member in the creation of Our Future AI/ML and functional genomics continue to play a role,
Health, an ambitious UK effort aiming to recruit up to five including in optimising clinical trial design, for example as
million people to capture a wide range of medical and happening now with bepivorisen.
genetic information. We're also working with Genes &
Health and Discover Me South Africa to further expand Building in-house AI/ML teams and expanding
this work and ensure a diverse and robust genetic our collaborations
representation of diseases. AI/ML enables us to generate deeper insights from our own
In our collaboration with the consumer genetics and research data and our collaborations. Our work in applied
research company 23andMe we have approximately 50 AI/ML primarily focuses on two areas in R&D: at the early
active joint drug discovery programmes for genetically discovery stage to find genetically validated targets, and
validated targets. In 2022, we extended our collaboration at the clinical stage to match patients with the right
for a fifth year to identify and validate additional new drug medicines.
targets until July 2023. This year we also took on sole We’ve built one of the largest in-house functions dedicated
development responsibility for phase I of the collaboration to AI/ML, and we work with partners to lead the way in
programme consisting of an investigational antibody these fields. Our AI/ML team includes more than 160
targeting CD96 as a novel immuno-oncology agent. experts based at key GSK R&D sites, including London, San
This is an investigational antibody that is currently being Francisco, Tel Aviv, Philadelphia and Boston. Combining our
evaluated for cancer alongside other GSK medicines. team with the resources and expertise of our partners helps
us collect more data, find patterns in genetic data faster
than we could before and, ultimately, helps us increase
our success rates in making life-changing medicines. We
continue to expand our partnerships with world leader
data aggregation companies such as Tempus to further
complement our internally generated data.
18GSK Annual Report 2022
19
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Research and development continued
Our models are becoming more and more advanced with We develop these technologies ourselves and through
every iteration. We've created a new imaging tool using external collaborations. Key areas for new medicine and
AI/ML that we are using to inform target selection and vaccine technologies that we're actively investing in include:
potential business development opportunities in a
– MAPS (multiple antigen presenting system), a novel and
challenging and complex disease area, non-alcoholic
highly efficient vaccine technology platform that
steatohepatitis (NASH).
potentially enables broader coverage, generating higher
Also, through a partnership with King’s College London, antibody responses. MAPS has mainly been directed at
we're using tumour models alongside digital pathology and preventing pneumococcal disease and has also shown
AI to develop personalised immuno-oncology treatments promise in addressing other infectious disease pathogens,
for several solid cancers, including lung, gastrointestinal including those that cause hospital-acquired infections
and women’s cancers. – mRNA, which was validated by the launch of the
COVID-19 vaccines in 2020 and could potentially be
The Oxford-GSK Institute of Molecular and Computational
applied across a number of diseases. We're progressing
Medicine (IMCM), which we established in partnership with
the development of the mRNA technology in-house, in
Oxford University in December 2021, combines human
parallel with our CureVac collaboration. We're currently
genetics with functional genomics and ML to focus on
evaluating a second generation mRNA backbone, which
neurological diseases like ALS, Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s.
we developed with CureVac, in a phase I trial featuring
Our collaborations in data technology complement our modified mRNA vaccine candidates targeting COVID-19
existing capabilities and resources and include ongoing and flu. Based on the promising preliminary analysis of
work with Cerebras, the pioneer in high performance AI these studies, evaluating safety, reactogenicity and
computer systems, and NVIDIA, a global leader in AI hard immunogenicity, we are preparing to move these
and software. In 2022, we started two other data candidates into late-stage clinical testing
collaborations:
– RNAi and oligonucleotides including: ARO-HSD, a phase
– PathAI, a global leader in AI-powered pathology, aimed II programme for NASH, in-licensed from Arrowhead in
at accelerating R&D in oncology and NASH. We’ll 2021, consisting of an RNA interference (RNAi) molecule
combine our predictive and data-driven approach to against a genetically validated target; and bepirovirsen,
drug discovery and trials with PathAI’s models to build an anti-sense oligonucleotide designed to recognise
algorithms that uncover new insights. We'll integrate HBV DNA, in phase III, which we in-licensed from Ionis
these into trials to help us predict which patients will be in 2019. We also announced a collaboration with
impacted most Wave Life Sciences, which allows us to advance up
to eight preclinical programmes using Wave's PRISM
– Tempus, which enables access to their library of de-
oligonucelotide platform and includes the in-licensing
identified patient data. Tempus’ dataset draws from its
of a novel RNA-editing oligonucleotide to treat liver and
work with over 40% of oncologists in the US at academic
lung disease caused by alpha-1-antitrypsin deficiency
medical centres and community hospitals. We will work
with Tempus to improve clinical trial design, speed up – monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) such as Xevudy for
enrolment and identify drug targets, with an initial focus COVID-19, co-developed with Vir Biotechnology,
on oncology as well as other research programmes
– new ways to understand the biology and pharmacology
Platform technology across vaccines of genetically validated targets and how best to
and medicines intervene in their disease processes. Our Chemical
Our work to use technology to drive drug discovery also Biology group has developed several such methods,
includes expanding our platform capabilities. These including chemogenomic libraries, encoded libraries,
technologies allow us to broaden the range of options for and reactive fragments, in part in collaboration with
future medicines and vaccines, going beyond existing the Francis Crick Institute. These novel technologies help
modalities like small molecules, antibodies and adjuvants find critical starting points for drug discovery projects
to help immune responses to vaccines, but importantly also – natural products derived from the biosphere, such as
ensure we remain highly competitive by being faster and the collaboration we started with LifeMine Therapeutics
more confident in identifying new medicines from our in 2022, which gives us access to its platform for
genetically validated targets. proprietary evolutionary-derived genomic drug discovery
– bi-specific antibodies for multiple auto-immune
diseases that are advancing through preclinical phases
– digitisation to optimise each phase of vaccine
development and production. Working with
Siemens and Atos, two of the world’s leading digital
transformation and technology companies, we've
developed a ‘digital twin’, a complete and real-time
simulation of the vaccine manufacturing process.GSK Annual Report 2022
Research and development continued
Infectious diseases
Two-thirds of the vaccines and medicines in our pipeline The vaccine was generally well tolerated, with a favourable
address the global public health burden of infectious safety profile. These data were presented as part of the
diseases, such as those caused by HIV, RSV, meningococci, Infectious Disease Society of America’s IDWeek 2022
hepatitis B, rotavirus and antibiotic resistant bacteria. annual meeting in Washington, DC, in October. We also
These diseases cause significant morbidity and mortality shared positive data on the co-administration of our RSV
and put strain on global healthcare systems. older adult vaccine candidate with a flu vaccine, a key
finding for practical immunisation.
In 2022, we generated pivotal data for our RSV candidate
vaccine for older adults and positive interim analysis readout Based on these data, the vaccine candidate was granted
for gepotidacin, our antibiotic to treat uUTIs and gonorrhoea. Priority Review by the FDA. It was also accepted for
Both have the potential to be first and best-in-class. accelerated assessment by the European Medicines
Agency (EMA) and for review by the Japanese Ministry of
We also sought opportunities to boost our pipeline
Health, Labour and Welfare (MHLW).
through business development. In 2022, we completed
our acquisition of the clinical-stage biopharmaceutical We’re committed to finding solutions for people at high risk
company Affinivax. It has pioneered a novel class of of the serious consequences of RSV infection. In 2022, we
next-generation pneumococcal vaccine candidates. started a clinical trial exploring the effect of the RSV older
These include a 24-valent vaccine candidate for adults, adult vaccine candidate in people aged 50-59, including
which has completed phase II, and a paediatric version those at increased risk of RSV-LRTD, compared to people 60
currently in phase II. A 30-plus valent pneumococcal and over. We also began two further flu co-administration
vaccine programme is in pre-clinical development. These trials. The ARESVI-006 trial will also continue to evaluate an
vaccines incorporate the MAPS technology (see page 19). annual revaccination schedule and longer-term protection
over multiple seasons.
Our new partnership with Spero Therapeutics, Inc. gave
us an exclusive licence agreement for tebipenem HBr, a
Shingles
late-stage antibiotic being developed by Spero. This is the
first oral carbapenem antibiotic, and it has the potential to Approximately one in three adults develop shingles, a
treat cUTIs. With a clear FDA regulatory path to potential painful and potentially serious illness. Shingrix is the first
approval, tebipenem HBr will address an unmet medical approved shingles vaccine to combine a non-live antigen
need for a novel oral antibiotic as an alternative to with one of our adjuvants. It may help overcome the natural
intravenous hospital therapy for drug-resistant cUTIs. age-related decline in immunity that contributes to the
challenge of protecting people aged 50 and over from this
disease.
RSV
RSV is a major cause of acute respiratory illness in older Shingrix is now available in 26 countries, and we’ve
adults and is currently one of the major infectious diseases continued to broaden access to it in 2022. In Japan, where
without a vaccine. RSV can worsen underlying conditions Shingrix is already approved for people over 50, we’ve also
and cause pneumonia. It leads to approximately 420,000 submitted an application to extend the indications to
hospitalisations and over 29,000 deaths a year in adults in include over 18-year-olds at risk, such as those with immune
industrialised countries. Around 94% of people hospitalised suppression and immune deficiency. The US Cancer
with RSV have underlying comorbidities. Network has recommended Shingrix for cancer survivors
over 19, and the vaccine has a preferential recommendation
In 2022, we became the first company to announce positive
from the Brazilian Immunization Society.
phase III efficacy data for a RSV older adult vaccine
candidate. Interim results from our ARESVI-006 phase III We presented new data at IDWeek 2022 showing that
pivotal trial showed vaccine efficacy of over 94%1 observed Shingrix can provide at least 10 years of protection against
against RSV lower respiratory tract disease (RSV-LRTD) in shingles in the over 50s. In the primary endpoint analysis,
adults with at least one comorbidity of interest and in those the interim data showed overall efficacy of more than 80%2
with severe disease. Overall vaccine efficacy against in the follow-up period of approximately six to ten years
RSV-LRTD was 82.6%1, meeting the trial's primary endpoint. after initial vaccination. No new safety concerns were
Consistent high vaccine efficacy was observed across a identified during the follow-up period. These data
range of pre-specified secondary endpoints, including significantly add to the real-world evidence demonstrating
against severe disease, in adults aged 70-79 and across the long-term benefit of Shingrix.
RSV A and B strains.
1 VE 94.1% (1 of 12,466 versus 17 of 12,494); 94.6% (1 of 4,937 versus 18
of 4,861); VE 82.6% (7 of 12,466 versus 40 of 12,494)
2 VE 81.6% (52 cases in 32673.8 f/u years versus 283 cases* in 32673.8 f/u
years); *cases for the placebo group are estimated from the ZOE-50/70
placebo groups to assess vaccine efficacy during ZOE-LTFU study;
f/u: follow up; (95% confidence interval [CI]: 75.2–86.6)
20GSK Annual Report 2022
21
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Research and development continued
Meningitis Providing solutions with new COVID-19 vaccines
Around 1.2 million people develop invasive meningococcal Our pandemic adjuvant technology is part of several
disease (IMD) each year. It can be fatal, and 10–20% of protein-based COVID-19 vaccines we’ve developed, such
survivors will have long-term disabilities such as brain as with Sanofi and SK bioscience, which are now licensed
damage, deafness, nervous system problems or loss of in some markets. These vaccines are important new options
limbs. Bacterial meningitis is also of particular concern. One to help protect against COVID-19.
in 10 people who are diagnosed with bacterial meningitis
end up dying, and 1 in 5 are left with severe complications. Chronic hepatitis B
Chronic hepatitis B (CHB) is a major global health issue
Bexsero, our meningitis B vaccine, and Menveo, our
with approximately 300 million people infected and
meningitis ACWY vaccine, are registered in more than 60
approximately 900,000 people dying annually due to
countries, and together protect against most forms of IMD.
liver complications, including cirrhosis and liver cancer.
Since launch, more than 150 million doses of these vaccines
The mainstay of therapy includes nucleoside/nucleotide
have been distributed. In 2022, we received FDA approval
analogues (NA) which are often taken for life because
in the US and ANVISA approval in Brazil for a fully liquid,
they suppress but rarely clear the virus.
ready-to-use single vial presentation of Menveo. This gives
healthcare providers a more convenient option by removing Bepirovirsen is the only drug in development as a
the need to reconstitute the vaccine. monotherapy for CHB that works to reduce virus replication,
suppress surface antigen and stimulate the immune system.
Our investigational first generation MenABCWY candidate
In November 2022, phase II full-study data published in
pentavalent (5-in-1) vaccine combines the technologies
The New England Journal of Medicine demonstrated that
used in our Bexsero and Menveo vaccines. The goal of
treatment with bepirovirsen resulted in sustained clearance
introducing a 5-in-1 meningitis vaccine is to protect people
of hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) and HBV DNA
against the five serotypes that cause most disease with just
in a sub-group of patients followed for six months after one vaccine, not two. A 5-in-1 meningitis vaccine has the
discontinuation of their bepirovirsen. Levels of HBsAg
potential to help improve vaccination rates by providing a
and HBV DNA together are key efficacy measures. When
more convenient way to prevent IMD.
HBsAg and HBV DNA remain undetectable for more than
MenABCWY is currently in phase III development, in a trial six months without medications, patients are considered
spanning five countries with 3,650 participants aged 10-25. to have a functional cure, an outcome associated
We expect results in early 2023. New multivalent vaccines with significant decreased risk developing cirrhosis,
like this have the potential to support the global strategy to hepatocellular carcinoma and death. Currently, standard
defeat meningitis by 2030, set out in the World Health of care treatment with NA rarely achieves functional
Organization’s Global Road Map. cure, which is why new therapies are needed for patients
diagnosed with chronic HBV. Our phase III study which
A second-generation 5-in-1 meningitis vaccine is currently
started in early 2023 will build our understanding of how
in phase II and is aimed at improving protection against B
bepirovirsen works. Our aim for bepirovirsen is for it to
strains and allowing for broader age indications globally.
become a potential monotherapy or the backbone of future
therapy for hepatitis B patients. We are exploring potential
COVID-19
sequential treatment trials and expect to share data later
By the end of 2022, more than 650 million cases of
in 2023.
COVID-19 had been reported around the world, and there
had been over 6.5 million deaths. The disease continues to
Other infectious diseases
challenge healthcare systems. We and our innovation
Diptheria, tetanus and pertussis
partners have been part of the response, developing
treatments and vaccines. Since 2010, there have been up to 48,000 cases of pertussis
(whooping cough) in the US each year, with infants more
Treating COVID-19 with Xevudy likely to experience complications from the disease.
Xevudy (sotrovimab) is our SARS-CoV-2 monoclonal Boostrix, our tetanus, diphtheria and pertussis vaccine
antibody treatment, developed with Vir Biotechnology. (Tdap), received approval from the FDA in October 2022 for
It works by preventing the virus from entering and infecting immunisation during the third trimester of pregnancy for
healthy cells in the body. It has been an important part the prevention of whooping cough in newborn infants.
of early treatment to prevent high-risk patients from This makes it the first vaccine in the US approved
developing severe disease. With Vir, we developed specifically for use during pregnancy. The vaccine is
sotrovimab from discovery to approval in less than 1.5 years. approved in 80 countries, including in the EU, Canada,
We have delivered over two million doses of Xevudy to over Australia and New Zealand.
30 countries including government purchases to meet
current and future need.GSK Annual Report 2022
Research and development continued
Rotavirus Antibiotics and antimicrobial resistance
In November 2022, the FDA approved the new fully According to the World Health Organization (WHO),
liquid presentation of our Rotarix vaccine to prevent antimicrobial resistance (AMR) is one of the top 10 global
gastroenteritis caused by rotavirus. This new presentation health threats. By undermining the effectiveness of
makes it more convenient for healthcare providers to antibiotics, it contributes to around 1.2 million worldwide
prepare Rotarix by removing the need to reconstitute the deaths a year.
dose at the point of use. We expect it to be commercially
We're using our expertise in developing prevention and
available in early 2023.
treatment options to focus on pathogens that have the
Varicella highest probability of developing AMR, as identified by the
In February 2022, we started a phase II study in the US Centers for Disease Control (CDC) and the WHO.
with children aged 12-15 months to compare the safety
Progressing towards a new treatment for urinary tract
and immunogenicity of our varicella (chickenpox) new
infections and gonorrhoea
strain candidate vaccine with the vaccine currently
We are developing gepotidacin, a novel mechanism
available. The aim is to develop a vaccine that fits the
topoisomerase inhibitor, for uncomplicated UTIs and
Advisory Committee for Immunization Practices' (ACIP)
gonorrhoea, in partnership with the Biomedical Advanced
recommended US immunisation schedule and offers
Research and Development Authority (BARDA) in the US. In
healthcare professionals and parents an alternative to the
early November, we received positive results from EAGLE-2
current vaccine. This varicella new strain vaccine could also
and EAGLE-3 phase III trials evaluating gepotidacin, in
be used as a component of the measles-mumps-rubella-
female adults and adolescents with uUTIs. Following a
varicella vaccine in the US.
recommendation by the Independent Data Monitoring
Herpes simplex virus Committee (IDMC) we stopped the trials early for efficacy
We have started a phase I study to investigate the potential and plan to submit a New Drug Application to the FDA in
of GSK 3943104A, an immunotherapeutic against herpes 2023. We are also studying gepotidacin as a potential
simplex virus (HSV). The aim is to offer a better solution for treatment for urogenital gonorrhoea (GC) in the EAGLE-3
people with the virus than current standard of care. The phase III trial, with potential to read out in the second half
study is gathering safety and immunogenicity data on GSK of 2023.
3943104A in healthy people. Phase II development will
In November 2022, we started a phase I/II study to
focus on safety and immunogenicity, as well as proof-of-
evaluate the safety and efficacy of a new vaccine
concept efficacy.
candidate for gonorrhoea prevention. This vaccine
Human papillomavirus candidate, based on our proprietary GMMA (generalised
Human papillomavirus (HPV) is a common sexually modules for membrane antigens), aims at protecting
transmitted infection – around 14 million people a year adolescents and adults against gonorrhoea infections.
become infected in the US alone. It often has no symptoms
In 2022, we also started a phase Ib study of our first-in-
but can cause genital warts or cancer. We’ve begun a
class FimH antagonist, a novel molecule that blocks
phase I/II study of our next-generation adjuvanted
binding of E. coli bacteria to the bladder epithelium, as a
vaccine, developed in collaboration with Innovax, to
treatment for recurrent urinary tract infection.
protect against nine types of HPV. The study is evaluating
the reactogenicity, safety and immunogenicity of an Investigating our salmonella vaccine
adjuvanted vaccine candidate for girls and women aged In July 2022, we started a phase I study with the University
16-26. The aim is to identify the most effective vaccine of Oxford to investigate our candidate vaccine for invasive
formulation to take into phase III trials. non-typhoidal salmonellosis (iNTS). The vaccine uses our
generalised modules for membrane antigens (GMMA)
We also received approval in China for Cervarix, our human
technology. To explore its potential, we’re partnering with
papillomavirus vaccine for girls aged nine to 14, in a
Vacc-iNTS, a consortium of 12 partners from eight countries,
two-dose regimen.
including some where iNTS is endemic.
Pneumococcal disease
Pneumococcal disease is the term for any illness caused
by the bacterium Streptococcus pneumoniae, a leading
cause of acute bacterial disease worldwide. Our acquisition
of Affinivax adds a novel class of next-generation
pneumococcal vaccine candidates that incorporate MAPS
technology (see pages 19 and 20).
22GSK Annual Report 2022
23
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Research and development continued
HIV
In recent years, we’ve made breakthroughs in treating and Offering a range of options for people living
preventing HIV to transform patients’ lives. We’re now with HIV
building on these achievements with new products,
We offer different medicines to meet the varying needs of
including long-acting injectables which, for many, means
people living with HIV.
significantly reducing therapy to just a few times a year.
Our portfolio of antiretrovirals also includes Tivicay and
HIV is one of the world’s biggest health threats, with 1.5
Triumeq, which contain dolutegravir. Triumeq now has US
million new cases in 2021, including approximately 38,000
approval in a dispersible once-daily tablet formulation for
in the US. Around 38 million people were living with HIV
children weighing 10kg and above and the Committee for
worldwide in 2021, over half of them in sub-Saharan Africa.
Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) of the EMA
In HIV, our work is through ViiV Healthcare, the world’s only issued a positive opinion recommending marketing
specialist HIV pharmaceutical company, which we majority authorisation for Triumeq PD for children 14kg and above at
own, with Pfizer and Shionogi as shareholders. Our goal is the end of 2022. With 1.7 million children living with the virus,
to treat, prevent and eventually cure HIV. it’s important that this medicine, the first fixed-dose tablet
regimen for children, is now available in a form that’s easier
Transforming the experience of patients for them to take. The FDA has also lowered the minimum
weight at which a child can be prescribed the Triumeq
living with HIV
tablet from 40kg to 25kg.
With our portfolio of 17 antiretroviral medicines, we’re
transforming the experience of people living with HIV. Our commitment is to leave no person with HIV behind. That
Instead of taking medicine orally every day, our Cabenuva includes working to develop medicines for heavily treatment-
(cabotegravir, rilpivirine) long-acting injectable regimen experienced adults who have very few treatment options
allows some patients to only have treatment six times a because of safety concerns, intolerance, or resistance. In
year. The treatment has established ViiV Healthcare as the 2022, we announced five-year data for Rukobia
industry leader in long-acting HIV medicines. (fostemsavir), a first-in-class attachment inhibitor. In the
ongoing BRIGHTE study, week 240 data shows that these
Cabenuva is approved for dosing every two months in
patients can take fostemsavir as part of their antiretroviral
the US, and in Europe as the combination of Vocabria
regimen and keep their virus suppressed over the long term.
(cabotegravir) and Rekambys (rilpivirine). This combination
received marketing approval in Japan in 2022, again for
Exploring more ways to improve the lives of
dosage every two months. The FDA has also approved a
label update for Cabenuva that means patients no longer people living with HIV
have to take cabotegravir and rilpivirine tablets for a month We’re exploring new types of long-acting therapy, based on
before starting Cabenuva injections. cabotegravir, that could give people living with HIV the
option to take medicine at home. These involve combining
ViiV’s dolutegravir is the world’s most widely prescribed
cabotegravir with other assets in our early-stage pipeline to
integrase inhibitor for HIV, taken by around 21 million
create medicines that patients can administer themselves.
people, or three out of four of those currently on HIV
medications. It’s the foundation for Dovato and Juluca, We're also investigating ultra-long-acting medicines with
our two-drug regimen oral therapies, which are as effective dosing every three months or longer. Based on studies in
as three-drug regimens and allow people to take fewer 2022 and 2023, we will choose partners for cabotegravir
drugs while still maintaining viral suppression. and begin phase IIb and phase III studies of these
combinations in 2024.
Working to prevent HIV
In October 2022, we announced positive phase IIa data
Preventing HIV is a central part of ViiV Healthcare’s work. for N6LS, a novel broadly neutralising antibody (bNAb). A
In late 2021, we received FDA approval for Apretude study showed strong antiviral efficacy at two dosing levels.
(cabotegravir), the first and only long-acting injectable bNAbs can recognise different strains of HIV and stop them
pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) option to reduce the risk of entering healthy cells, and so block the virus from
sexually acquired HIV-1. This approval was based on results replicating. They offer a potentially new approach to
from two pivotal phase III studies, HIV Prevention Trials treatment and may help us combat treatment resistance
Network (HPTN) 083 and 084, demonstrating superiority in our efforts to end the HIV epidemic.
over the established standard of care.
A European study of Vocabria (cabotegravir injection) and
In August 2022, we announced more data showing the Rekambys (rilpivirine long-acting injectable suspension)
continued superior efficacy of cabotegravir long-acting for showed the treatment was well received by people living
PrEP over daily tablets. The unblinded portion of the HPTN with HIV and by clinic staff. In the CARISEL study, 81% of
084 trial with women in sub-Saharan Africa showed a participants said the injectable treatment was less
substantially lower rate of HIV acquisition. stigmatising than daily tablets, and the combination showed
a high clinical effectiveness and a low rate of viral failure.GSK Annual Report 2022
Research and development continued
Immunology/respiratory
For 50 years, we have been leaders in medicines that Eosinophil-driven diseases are associated with poor
advance the management of asthma and chronic symptom control such as worsening asthma, and can cause
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), and we've sold breathing difficulties and interfere with taste, smell and
products for respiratory problems since the 1880s. Now we sleep.
draw on our expertise in the science of the immune system
Our first-in-class monoclonal antibody Nucala
to develop medicines for immune-mediated conditions
(mepolizumab), targets interleukin-5 (IL-5) to reduce the
including lupus, eosinophilic-driven diseases such as
number of eosinophils. It’s the only treatment in the US and
severe eosinophilic asthma and other inflammatory
Europe with indications across four eosinophilic diseases,
diseases. Our innovative medicines help millions of
including severe eosinophilic asthma (SEA), chronic
people with immune and respiratory conditions.
rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps (CRSwNP), eosinophilic
granulomatosis with polyangiitis (EGPA) and
Widening access to Benlysta beyond systemic
hypereosinophilic syndrome (HES).
lupus erythematosus (SLE) to include lupus
In 2022 Nucala was approved in the US, Japan and Europe
nephritis (LN)
as a 40mg pre-filled syringe for 6-11-year-olds with SEA.
SLE is a chronic autoimmune disease where the immune
The pre-filled syringe allows healthcare professionals or
system mistakenly attacks healthy tissue in many parts of
caregivers to administer Nucala at home. Previously,
the body. It causes symptoms like swollen joints, fever, hair
children could only receive the medicine in hospitals or
loss and facial rash, along with potential long-term
physicians’ offices, as pre-filled syringes were only available
complications including irreversible damage to vital organs
in adult strength.
like the heart and kidneys. SLE affects around five million
people worldwide. LN, the kidney inflammation caused by We also continue to develop a new monoclonal antibody,
lupus, can progress to kidney failure if left untreated. depemokimab, under development for its high affinity and
Approximately 40% of patients with SLE develop LN. long-acting suppression of IL-5 function. Current IL-5
inhibitors are dosed every four weeks or every eight weeks.
Our innovative research into the role of B cells in
Depemokimab is designed to be administered every six
autoimmune conditions led to the development of Benlysta
months, which means it has the potential to be the first
(belimumab), the only biologic approved for both SLE and
biologic to deliver ultra-long-acting treatment for patients
LN. Benlysta is a monoclonal antibody that targets
with SEA. In 2022, we began phase III trials of
B-lymphocyte stimulator (BLyS), an underlying cause of SLE
depemokimab for CRSwNP, EGPA and HES, following
and LN, reducing autoantibody levels to help treat the
initiation of trials in SEA in 2021.
short-term symptoms of inflammation and prevent
irreversible damage to vital organs. In 2022, we received
Otilimab
approval in China for Benlysta to treat adults with active
Data from the ContRAst programme examining otilimab as
LN. We also received FDA approval for Benlysta for
a potential treatment for rheumatoid arthritis showed
paediatric patients with active LN. These followed earlier
limited efficacy and did not support a suitable benefit/risk
approvals for adult treatment in markets including EU
profile. As a result, we decided not to progress with
member states, Japan and Brazil.
regulatory submissions.
Our ambition is to improve outcomes for lupus patients with
a ‘treat to target’ approach that aims for remission or Other clinical advances
reduced disease activity.
We moved two antibodies from phase I to phase II: anti-
CCL17 – a novel anti-cytokine antibody for pain in both
Innovating to treat eosinophil-driven diseases
osteoarthritis and diabetic peripheral neuropathy,
Eosinophil-driven diseases are associated with heightened representing a novel non-opioid, non-NSAID analgesic
levels of eosinophils, a type of white blood cell. Increased therapy; and anti-IL18 – a novel anti-cytokine antibody
levels of eosinophils in the blood or tissue can cause a for atopic dermatitis which was identified with the use of
range of symptoms across a variety of conditions. When human genetics and human translational studies.
eosinophils infiltrate certain tissues, they can cause
inflammation and organ damage which, over time, can
affect patients’ day-to-day life.
24GSK Annual Report 2022
25
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Research and development continued
Oncology
Cancer remains a leading cause of death with unmet In late 2022, our phase II PERLA study comparing Jemperli
patient need. We have an emerging portfolio in oncology plus chemotherapy to pembrolizumab plus chemotherapy
and will develop programmes using the science of the for metastatic non-squamous non-small-cell lung cancer
immune system with human genetics and new technology. returned positive data. The results support our ambition for
Jemperli to be the backbone of our immuno-oncology In oncology, we take a balanced and pragmatic approach
programme, either alone or combined with standard of
to investment in our research areas of immuno-oncology,
care and novel cancer therapies, especially for patients
tumour cell-targeting therapies and synthetic lethality. We
with limited treatment options.
have 11 investigational medicines in our oncology pipeline
that have the potential to make a meaningful difference for Our phase III COSTAR trial is studying Jemperli in
patients with cancer. combination with cobolimab, an investigational selective
anti-TIM-3 monoclonal antibody, and chemotherapy
We also grow our oncology pipeline through targeted
in patients with advanced non-small-cell lung cancer
business development with acquisitions and collaborations.
who have progressed on anti-PD-(L)1 therapy and
In 2022, we acquired Sierra Oncology, a biopharmaceutical
chemotherapy. The combination has the potential to
company focused on therapies for rare forms of blood
be the first of its kind.
cancer, such as myelofibrosis. We also entered into an
exclusive global licence option agreement with Mersana
CD226 axis
in a range of HER2-expressing tumours, such as breast,
gastric and non-small-cell lung cancers, and an expanded Our work focused in immuno-oncology aims to help
global, non-exclusive licence and collaboration agreement the immune system recognise and kill cancer cells
with SpringWorks Therapeutics for multiple myeloma. In more effectively. We’re investigating how Jemperli, in
2022, we also expanded our existing collaboration with combination with novel assets targeting the CD226
precision medicine partner Tempus, with an initial focus in axis, can support anti-tumour activity.
oncology (see page 19).
We are the only company with access to antibodies
targeting all three checkpoints on the CD226 axis, including
Positive readouts for Jemperli PVRIG, TIGIT and CD96. We’re executing a comprehensive
Colorectal cancer is the third most common form of cancer, development plan that will combine these investigational
with over 1.9 million new cases in 2020. We’re exploring an antibodies with Jemperli, in both doublet and triplet
immunotherapy treatment with curative intent using therapies. In addition to several early phase trials that are
Jemperli (dostarlimab) in a subset of rectal cancer. At ASCO underway, our phase II platform study in first-line non-
2022 breakthrough findings were presented and published small-cell lung cancer began dosing patients with an initial
in The New England Journal of Medicine by researchers at combination of Jemperli and our TIGIT antibody, partnered
Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center (MSK) confirming with iTeos Therapeutics.
a clinical complete response in all 14 patients who received
treatment with Jemperli as a neoadjuvant treatment for Gynaecologic and breast cancers
mismatch repair-deficient locally advanced rectal cancer.
In 2020, nearly 1.4 million women around the world were
In February 2023 the FDA Oncologic Drugs Advisory
diagnosed with a gynaecologic cancer.
Committee (ODAC) voted 8 to 5 that the two proposed
single-arm trials would be sufficient to characterise the We continue to explore the potential for our existing
benefits and risks of Jemperli in the curative-intent setting treatments to advance the standard of care for hard-to-
for patients with mismatch repair-deficient/microsatellite treat gynaecologic cancers, both alone and in combination
instability-high locally advanced rectal cancer. with each other and other agents. In second-line
endometrial cancer, the FDA granted full approval for
Jemperli in February 2023 for the treatment of adult
patients with mismatch repair-deficient (dMMR) recurrent
or advanced endometrial cancer, as determined by an
FDA-approved test, that has progressed on or following a
prior platinum-containing regimen in any setting and are
not candidates for curative surgery or radiation.GSK Annual Report 2022
Research and development continued
In December 2022, we announced positive headline results Multiple myeloma is the world’s third most common blood
from the planned interim analysis, or Part 1, of our RUBY cancer, with more than 175,000 people developing it every
phase III trial investigating Jemperli in combination with year. Blenrep (belantamab mafodotin) is for patients with
chemotherapy as a frontline treatment for advanced or relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma who have received
recurrent endometrial cancer. It showed a statistically at least four other therapies.
significant and clinically meaningful progression-free
Blenrep is approved in Europe and Hong Kong. Our
survival (PFS) benefit in the prespecified dMMR/MSI-H
DREAMM trials are investigating its potential in earlier lines
patient subgroup and in the overall population. In Part 2 of
of treatment, together with standard and novel therapies,
the RUBY study, we will assess Jemperli in combination with
as well as exploring dosing and scheduling modifications.
Zejula in the same setting, with initial results anticipated in
the second half of 2023. Our FIRST trial, is evaluating this In November 2022, we announced we would withdraw
combination as a potential new first-line maintenance Blenrep from the US market following the request of the
therapy for ovarian cancer with results expected in the FDA. This request was based on the outcome of the
second half of 2023.1 DREAMM-3 confirmatory trial, which did not meet the
requirements of the FDA Accelerated Approval regulations.
Our phase III trial, ZEST, is exploring the efficacy and safety
Other trials in the DREAMM clinical trial programme will
of Zejula (niraparib) as an early-stage treatment for breast
continue. They are designed to demonstrate the benefit of
cancer. The trial uses circulating tumour DNA technology
Blenrep in combination with novel therapies and standard-
for the first time in a pivotal breast cancer study. This offers
of-care treatments in earlier lines of therapy and dosing
the potential to detect tumour cells earlier at the molecular
optimisation to maintain efficacy while reducing corneal
level and identify women at higher risk of recurrence. This
events. We anticipate data from the DREAMM-7 and
means therapy with Zejula could start when the burden of
DREAMM-8 phase III trials in the second half of 2023.
disease is still low and may create an opportunity to slow or
stop the cancer’s progress more effectively.
Early science and other collaborations
In 2022, we announced an exclusive global licence option
Investigating Zejula for lung cancer
agreement to co-develop and commercialise Mersana
We're evaluating Zejula in our phase III ZEAL lung cancer
Therapeutics’ XMT-2056 immunosynthen antibody-drug
trial, which is investigating Zejula as a first-line maintenance
conjugate that targets a novel epitope of HER2. It’s
therapy for patients with advanced non-small-cell lung
designed to activate the innate immune system through
cancer (squamous and non-squamous histologies), after
STING signalling in immune cells in tumours, and tumour
they have received platinum-based chemotherapy. The trial
cells themselves. Mersana has initiated a phase I clinical
is studying the efficacy and safety of Zejula in combination
trial of XMT-2056 to investigate its potential in a range of
with the standard of care treatment.
HER2-expressing tumours, such as breast, gastric,
colorectal and non-small-cell lung cancers. The FDA has
Blood cancers
granted an orphan drug designation to XMT-2056 for the
Myelofibrosis is a rare blood cancer that affects around treatment of gastric cancer.
20,000 patients in the US, most of whom either have
Additionally, to further enhance our tumour-cell targeting
anaemia when they’re diagnosed or develop it eventually.
portfolio, we entered into an agreement with WuXi
Patients often need transfusions, and around 30% stop
Biologics for exclusive licences for up to four bi- and
treatment because of anaemia.
multi-specific T-cell engaging (TCE) antibodies developed
Momelotinib may address the significant medical needs using WuXi Biologics’ proprietary technology platforms.
of myelofibrosis patients with anaemia by reducing This deal allows us to access potential best-in-class TCE
dependence on transfusions while still treating other antibodies that have been optimised for effective tumor
symptoms of the disease and enlarged spleen. killing with a desirable safety profile.
A New Drug Application and Marketing Authorisation
Application for momelotinib is currently under review with
the FDA and EMA, respectively. Momelotinib is not currently
approved in any market. We anticipate a US launch in
2023.
1 At the request of the FDA, in late 2022, we restricted the
second-line ovarian cancer maintenance indication for Zejula
in the US to only the patient population with deleterious or
suspected deleterious germline BRCA mutations (gBRCAmut)
26GSK Annual Report 2022
27
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Research and development continued
Opportunity driven
As well as our portfolio across therapy areas, we pursue Progressing towards a new treatment for
other opportunities where the emerging science indicates cholestatic pruritus in primary biliary cholangitis
the potential for important new opportunities to have
Linerixibat is our ileal bile acid transporter (IBAT) inhibitor
major impact in addressing unmet need.
to potentially treat cholestatic pruritus in patients with
primary biliary cholangitis (PBC). This is a rare autoimmune
Transforming the treatment of anaemia with
liver disease affecting approximately 15 per 100,000
daprodustat people. Significant numbers of PBC patients suffer with
Over 700 million people suffer from chronic kidney disease cholestatic pruritus, a debilitating itch, and there has been
(CKD) worldwide, and an estimated one in seven of them no new pharmacologic therapy in this area in 60 years.
has anaemia. For many, the treatment options are limited.
Our development programme demonstrates how we are
When left untreated or undertreated, anaemia of CKD is
using digital technology to modernise drug development,
associated with poor clinical outcomes and leads to a
using novel platforms to run our studies with the potential
substantial burden on patients and healthcare systems.
to increase trial diversity. An example of this is a new
Daprodustat is our oral treatment in a class of medicines decentralised clinical trial (DCT) design with the potential
called oral hypoxia-inducible factor prolyl hydroxylase to improve patient recruitment and retention in GLISTEN,
inhibitors (HIF-PHIs). It's based on human genetics and the phase III trial of linerixibat for cholestatic pruritus in
Nobel Prize-winning science showing how cells sense and patients with PBC. This is an emerging trial model where
adapt to oxygen availability. Daprodustat offers a assessment of patients can occur at a patient’s own home,
potentially easier oral treatment than the current injection- improving accessibility for patients who may not live near to
based standard of care, while still managing haemoglobin a specialist. This is a first and we expect this innovation to
levels effectively. It's approved as Duvroq in Japan. continue.
In October 2022, we reported that the FDA Cardiovascular Linerixibat has received Orphan Drug Designation in
and Renal Drugs Advisory Committee (CRDAC) supported Europe and the US.
that the benefit of treatment with daprodustat outweighs
the risks for adult dialysis patients with anaemia of CKD
with a 13 to 3 vote. In adult non-dialysis patients with
anaemia of CKD, the CRDAC did not support that the
benefit of treatment with daprodustat outweighs the risks
with a 5 to 11 vote.
On 1 February 2023, the FDA approved daprodustat under
the name Jesduvroq for the treatment of anaemia of
chronic kidney disease in adults on dialysis. In March 2022,
the EMA validated the marketing authorisation application
for daprodustat, which is currently under regulatory review
with a decision anticipated mid-2023.GSK Annual Report 2022
Research and development continued
Pipeline overview
We have 69 assets in development, of which 18 are late-stage.
Phase III/Registration Phase I
Bexsero infants US (recombinant protein) MenB 29045451 (recombinant protein)3 C. difficile
SKYCovione (SK Bioscience)1 COVID-194 44290161 (bioconjugated, recombinant protein)3
K. pneumoniae
3536819 (conjugated, recombinant protein) MenABCWY
1st gen 3993129 (recombinant subunit)3 CMV6
38447661 (recombinant protein)3 RSV older adults 43822761 (mRNA) flu
gepotidacin1 (BTI inhibitor) uUTI and GC 43966871 (mRNA) COVID-19
bepirovirsen1 (HBV ASO) HBV 40771641 (bivalent GMMA) iNTS (typhimurium + enteritidis)2
tebipenem pivoxil1 (antibacterial carbapenem) cUTI10 39431041 (recombinant protein)3 Therapeutic HSV
4348413 (GMMA) gonorrhoea6
Xevudy1 (sotrovimab/VIR-7831 monoclonal antibody)
COVID-19 35368671 (bivalent conjugate) Salmonella (typhoid +
paratyphoid A)
Blenrep1 (anti-BCMA ADC) multiple myeloma
25562861 (Mtb inhibitor) tuberculosis
Jemperli1 (anti-PD-1) 1L endometrial cancer2
31868991 (CRK-12 inhibitor) visceral leishmaniasis7
Zejula1 (PARP inhibitor) ovarian, lung and breast cancer
34942451 (proteasome inhibitor) visceral leishmaniasis
momelotinib1 (JAK1, JAK2 and ACVR1 inhibitor) myelofibrosis 37727011 (P falciparum whole cell inhibitor) malaria
cobolimab1 (anti-TIM-3) NSCLC 38823471 (FimH antagonist) uUTI
latozinemab1 (AL001, anti-sortilin) frontotemporal 3923868 (PI4kβ inhibitor) viral COPD exacerbations
dementia2,9 41821371 (VIR-7832 monoclonal antibody) COVID-196
depemokimab1 (LA anti- IL5) asthma2 3965193 (PAPD5/7 inhibitor) HBV
Nucala (anti-IL5) COPD 52517381 (TLR8 agonist) HBV
3739937 (maturation inhibitor) HIV
daprodustat (HIF-PHI) anaemia of chronic kidney disease12
cabotegravir (400 mg/ml formulation) HIV
linerixibat (IBAT inhibitor) cholestatic pruritus in primary
4004280 (capsid protein inhibitor) HIV
biliary cholangitis
4011499 (capsid protein inhibitor) HIV
Phase II 45241841 (integrase inhibitor) HIV
34379491 (recombinant protein)3 malaria fractional dose
3745417 (STING agonist) cancer
4406371 (live, attenuated) MMRV new strain 40743861 (anti-LAG3) cancer
35368521 (GMMA) Shigella 60976081 (anti-CD96) cancer
35288691 (viral vector with recombinant protein)3 43815621 (anti-PVRIG) cancer
therapeutic HBV6
XMT-20561,11 (STING agonist ADC) cancer (wholly owned by
4023393 (conjugated, recombinant protein) MenABCWY Mersana Therapeutics)
2nd gen6
45272261 (AL101, anti-sortilin) neurodegenerative diseases
4178116 (live, attenuated) varicella new strain
38582791 (anti-CCL17) osteoarthritis pain
51019551 (MAPS) pneumococcal 24-valent – paediatric
1070806 (anti-IL18) atopic dermatitis
51019561 (MAPS) pneumococcal 24-valent – adults 38881301 (anti-IL7) multiple sclerosis
41066471 (protein-adiuvant)3 HPV6 41722391 (DNMT1 inhibitor) – sickle cell disease8
30366561 (leucyl t-RNA inhibitor) tuberculosis
Only the most advanced indications are shown for each asset.
sanfetrinem cilexetil1 (serine beta lactamase inhibitor)
1 In-licence or other alliance relationship with third party
tuberculosis 2 Additional indications or candidates also under investigation
BVL-GSK0981 (ethionamide booster) tuberculosis 3 Adjuvanted
4 GSK contributing pandemic adjuvant
VIR-24821 (neutralising monoclonal antibody)5 influenza 5 GSK has exclusive option to co-develop post phase II
3640254 (maturation inhibitor) HIV13 6 In phase I/II study
7 Transition activities underway to enable further progression by partner
38101091 (broadly neutralising antibody) HIV 8 Imminent study start
9 Phase III trial in patients with progranulin gene mutation
44288591 (anti-TIGIT) cancer 10 Phase II or III study start expected in 2023
Benlysta (anti-BLyS) Systemic sclerosis associated 11 GSK has an exclusive global license option to co-develop and
commercialise the candidate
interstitial lung disease10
12 FDA approved in February 2023
45329901 (HSD17B13 siRNA) non-alcoholic steatohepatitis10 13 Will not progress to phase III
MenB: meningitis B; RSV: respiratory syncytial virus; uUTI: uncomplicated
urinary tract infection; GC: urogenital gonorrhoea; HBV: hepatitis B virus;
cUTI: complicated urinary tract infection; ADC: Antibody drug conjugate
NSCLC: non-small cell lung cancer; LA: long-acting ;COPD: chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease; MMRV: measles, mumps, rubella & varicella;
HSV: herpes simplex virus; siRNA: small interfering RNA; HPV: human
papillomavirus; MAPS: multiple antigen presenting system; CMV:
cytomegalovirus; GMMA: generalised modules for membrane antigens;
iNTS: invasive non-typhoidal salmonella; ASO: antisense oligonucleotide
28GSK Annual Report 2022
Commercial operations
Performance: Vaccines
Our broad vaccines portfolio targets infectious diseases
at every stage of life, helping to protect people from
meningitis, shingles, flu, polio and many more.
Herpes zoster virus (shingles)
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
29GSK Annual Report 2022
Performance: Vaccines
Turnover Key products
£7.9bn
Product Disease Total revenue Key information
Shingrix Herpes zoster £2,958m +72% AER; Record sales year. Now launched in 26
(shingles) +60% CER markets
+17% AER, +11% CER
Bexsero Meningitis £753m +16% AER; Approved in France for National
group B +12% CER Immunisation Programme in 2022.
Now available in 50 markets
Fluarix, FluLaval Seasonal £714m +5% AER; Joint first to market with Sanofi in US
influenza -4% CER enabling vaccinations to begin in July 2022
Boostrix Diphtheria, £594m +14% AER; US approval for maternal immunisation
tetanus, acellular +7% CER indication in 2022
pertussis booster
Infanrix, Pediarix Diphtheria, £594m +9% AER; Pediarix leads in the US in market share by
tetanus, pertussis, +3% CER volume
polio, hepatitis B,
haemophilus
influenza type B
Engerix, Twinrix, Hepatitis £571m +24% AER; Travel and routine immunisation for hepatitis
Established £3,085m Havrix +16% CER recovering as expected in 2022
Shingles £2,958m Rotarix Rotavirus £527m -3% AER; Rotarix fully liquid in the US and approved
Meningitis £1,116m -3% CER in France for National Immunisation
Programme in 2022
Influenza £714m
Menveo Meningitis £345m +27% AER; Menveo fully liquid in the US and Brazil
Pandemic £64m
group A, C, W +18% CER in 2022
and Y
Synflorix Invasive disease, £305m -15% AER; Affinivax acquisition for next-generation
pneumonia, acute -15% CER PCV of 24 valents and greater
otitis media
Priorix, Priorix Measles, mumps, £188m -28% AER; US approval for Priorix in 2022 supporting
Tetra, Varilrix rubella and -29% CER continued expansion of our established
chickenpox portfolio
Cervarix Human papilloma £117m -15% AER; China approval for a two-dose schedule
virus -20% CER in 2022
Sales performance Meningitis vaccines sales grew 16% at AER, 11% at CER to
£1,116 million mainly driven by Bexsero up 16% at AER, 12%
We achieved strong growth in vaccines in 2022, driven
at CER to £753 million resulting from higher CDC demand
by record sales for our shingles vaccine, and continued
and increased share in the US. Menveo sales were also up
geographic expansion of our meningitis vaccine.
27% AER, 18% CER to £345 million, primarily driven by
Vaccines turnover was £7,937 million, up 17% at AER, 11% post-pandemic vaccination catch-up and higher public
at CER in total, and up 24% at AER, 17% at CER excluding demand in International, together with favourable pricing
pandemic adjuvant sales. The performance reflected a mix and share gain in the US.
favourable comparator, which was impacted by COVID-19
Fluarix/FluLaval sales grew by 5% AER but decreased
related disruptions in several markets primarily in H1 2021,
4% CER to £714 million, primarily driven by lower post-
and strong commercial execution of Shingrix, particularly in
pandemic demand in Europe and the US, partly offset
the US and Europe.
by lower expected returns in the US.
Shingrix sales grew 72% at AER, 60% at CER to £2,958
Established Vaccines grew 4% AER but was stable at CER
million. All regions grew significantly reflecting post-
to £3,085 million mainly resulting from supply constraints in
pandemic rebound, strong uptake and new market
MMR/V vaccines and lower tender demand in International
launches with more than half of the growth contributed
for Synflorix. This was offset by hepatitis vaccines demand
from outside of the US. In the US, Shingrix grew 46% at AER,
rebound in the US and Europe and Boostrix post-pandemic
32% at CER to £1,964 million due to higher non-retail and
demand recovery and increased share in the US.
retail demand and strong commercial execution. Germany
and China contributed strongly to the Shingrix growth.
Shingrix was launched in nine markets during 2022 and
is now available in 26 countries.
30GSK Annual Report 2022
31
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Performance: Vaccines continued
Pandemic vaccines decreased 86% AER and CER primarily Our established platform technologies, and the new
reflecting comparison to 2021 pandemic adjuvant sales to platforms we’re building, such as the MAPS and mRNA
the US and Canadian governments partly offset by GSK’s technologies, are a key part of our vaccines growth strategy
share of 2022 contracted European volumes related to and are enabling us to tackle the most complex diseases
the COVID-19 booster vaccine developed through a from birth throughout adulthood (see page 19).
collaboration with Sanofi Pasteur (Sanofi).
Drivers of growth across the portfolio
Record annual sales for Shingrix were driven by strong
Our strategy for growth
demand in existing markets and geographic expansion.
Vaccines play a critical role in our growth. We aim to
Shingrix continues to be recommended for adults and
reach 1.3 billion people with vaccines by 2031, a significant
at-risk groups in countries around the world, driving its
contribution to our overall ambition to positively impact the
uptake. By 2024, we aim to have launched in 35 markets
health of 2.5 billion people. We will achieve this through
which make up about 90% of the vaccine market by value.
growth of our existing adult and paediatric vaccines and
new launches. Our focus is on accelerating the vaccines We continue to strengthen our leadership position in
pipeline, particularly RSV and MenABCWY, ensuring meningitis vaccines with an aim to double sales by 2031
manufacturing capability and capacity for RSV, Shingrix through continued market share growth, the geographic
and our established portfolio, and entering new markets. expansion of Bexsero and the anticipated launch of our
We also prioritise targeted business development which pentavalent vaccine. During the year, France approved
complements our existing vaccine portfolio and gives us Bexsero for its National Immunisation Programme and we
access to new patients. also launched Bexsero in Taiwan and received marketing
authorisation in South Korea, making Bexsero available in
Vaccines are complex and highly technical both to develop
a total of 50 countries.
and manufacture. As such there is no established generic
industry and they therefore do not generally face the We remain committed to growing our established portfolio,
so-called 'patent cliff'. This longer lifecycle means that which represents about half of our total vaccines business.
vaccines can remain in use for decades after their initial We continue to seek to expand the availability of our
authorisation. For example Boostrix, Infanrix, Priorix and vaccines in markets around the world; our lifecycle
Engerix are beyond their patents but remain important management strategy has strengthened our presence
parts of our portfolio in terms of contribution to in the US. For example, Priorix, our measles, mumps and
performance. And importantly, our vaccines have a rubella vaccine, has been protecting people worldwide for
strong efficacy profile with 90% of our portfolio by sales 25 years; its launch in the US this year underscores how it
having an efficacy level of above 90% – helping to protect remains an important part of our established portfolio.
our portfolio from potential disruption from new Also in the US, we received FDA approval for fully liquid
technologies. formulations of Rotarix, our rotavirus vaccine and Menveo,
our meningitis ACWY vaccine. We were also first to receive
Our portfolio of more than 20 marketed vaccines is one
FDA approval for a vaccine given in pregnancy, Boostrix
of the industry’s broadest, helping to protect people
maternal, which can be administered in the third trimester
throughout their lives against diseases, including meningitis,
to help prevent whooping cough in young babies (see
shingles, flu, polio, measles and many more. We deliver one
page 22).
and a half million doses of our vaccines every day; and
around 40% of the world’s children receive a GSK vaccine
each year.
The full benefits of vaccination go beyond the health
of individuals. Vaccination programmes help minimise
health inequity and reduce costs to the healthcare system,
potentially promoting economic growth and societal
wellbeing. With our acquisition of Affinivax and, if we get
approval, the future launch of our RSV vaccine for older
adults, we are well positioned in the adult vaccination
segment, which will be a key growth driver of the global
vaccines market.GSK Annual Report 2022
Performance: Vaccines continued
Meeting the needs of healthcare professionals Strengthening our manufacturing network to
and patients (HCPs) support vaccines growth
From the age of about 50, our immune system starts to In 2022, our 12 manufacturing sites in nine countries
decline and becomes less effective, leading to increased produced and delivered over 500 million vaccine doses.
vulnerability to infectious diseases. Given this, we are This was despite supply challenges with incoming materials
focusing our efforts on helping to keep older adults healthy. and shipping impacts caused by COVID-19, the global
We want to improve physician-patient dialogue on economic environment and the conflict in Ukraine.
vaccination, to raise awareness in adults of vaccine-
Our sites are routinely inspected by multiple regulatory
preventable diseases and to increase access to vaccination
agencies. In 2022, there were 45 inspections by health
beyond the physician's office.
authorities across our manufacturing sites.
Our Vaccine Study 2022 Report explored attitudes and
We are preparing our manufacturing and supply
beliefs of HCPs and those over 50 years to vaccination. The
capabilities to support both our inline product growth and
study showed that HCPs are a patient's number one source
our pipeline products pending approval. This includes our
of information about vaccines. But HCPs can't always meet
RSV vaccine for older adults. In 2022, the RSV production
their patients’ needs because they lack time, want to avoid
facility in Wavre, Belgium, produced the first doses for the
conflict or don’t have enough information and training.
market at a 100% success rate. To be ready for demand,
To ease some of the pressure on HCPs, we've started a we announced a €70 million investment in a second
digital channel partnership with NextDoor in the US, manufacturing facility for RSV antigen production in
providing vaccination information directly to patients. Belgium. Also in Belgium, we invested in more capacity for
We've also launched a consumer campaign about the lyophilised products as well as building our internal mRNA
importance of vaccination. We're working directly with capabilities. Following the acquisition of Affinivax, we are
HCPs through a series of Vaccinology Master Classes, adding MAPS to our production technology platforms by
helping to better equip them for conversations with their using capabilities at our Singapore site as well as new
patients about vaccines. investments at GSK Binney Street in Cambridge, Boston.
With US research company IQVIA, we also launched Overall, we're focused on increasing the control and
Vaccine Track, a data platform to help improve adult robustness of our supply chain. A good example of this
vaccination nationwide. The platform gives HCPs is the manufacturing of key adjuvants (AS01, AS03). We've
information about the uptake of recommended adult brought production of MPL and QS21 (components of AS01)
immunisations. With this data, HCPs can target their efforts in-house at Hamilton. We've also formulated over 200
to increase discussion about vaccination and improve batches of adjuvant in Belgium since 2020 for current and
coverage in areas showing a relative decline in future key assets such as Shingrix, Mosquirix or our RSV
immunisation. candidate vaccine for older adults.
We're working with expert groups on adult vaccination Throughout the year we invested in modernising, digitising
calendars which show HCPs and their patients which and automating our manufacturing network. For example,
vaccines they're eligible for. our quality control laboratories at all our sites went
completely paperless. We'll transition more than 50
In 2022, we launched a first-ever shingles awareness week
production lines at 10 sites to electronic batch records
with the International Federation on Ageing, reaching more
by 2025 as we build on our digital capability for better
than 900 million people globally. Such campaigns remain
operational efficiency, compliance, yield and shorter
an important way of increasing awareness of vaccine
lead times.
preventable diseases, prompting patients to seek HCP
guidance on next steps, including preventative options.
Globally, governments, policymakers and healthcare
providers are recognising the potential advantages of
having increased access to vaccination through additional
channels such as vaccination centres as well as retail
pharmacies. We're working with pharmacy chains to
provide information for patients as they consider their
vaccination options.
32GSK Annual Report 2022
We continue to be global leaders in HIV medicines, focus on pioneering
treatments for immune-mediated conditions and respiratory diseases,
and have an emerging portfolio of cancer medicines.
HIV virus
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Commercial operations
Performance: Specialty Medicines
33GSK Annual Report 2022
Performance: Specialty Medicines
Turnover
Key marketed products
£11.3bn
Product Disease Total revenue Key information
Xevudy COVID-19 £2,309m >100% Monoclonal antibody treatment. Delivered
+37% AER, +29% CER treatment AER; >100% CER more than two million doses to over 30
countries since approval
Triumeq HIV treatment £1,799m -4% AER; Dolutegravir-based fixed dose combination
-11% CER tablets. Marketed in 67 countries
Nucala Respiratory £1,423m +25% AER; The only treatment to be indicated in the US
eosinophil-driven +18% CER and Europe for use across four eosinophil-
diseases driven diseases (see page 24)
Tivicay HIV treatment £1,381m flat% AER; Dolutegravir tablet for use in combination
-7% CER with other antiretroviral agents. Marketed
in 71 countries
Dovato HIV treatment £1,375m +75% AER; Dolutegravir based two-drug regimen. Now
+65% CER launched in over 50 markets
Benlysta Lupus and lupus £1,146m +31% AER; Only biologic approved to treat both SLE
nephritis +20% CER and LN, in the US, Europe and elsewhere
HIV £5,749m
Juluca HIV treatment £636m +23% AER; Dolutegravir based two-drug regimen.
I mmuno-inflammation, +14% CER Marketed in 30 countries
respiratory and other
£2,609m Zejula Ovarian cancer £463m +17% AER; PARP inhibitor commercially available in 1L
+12% CER maintenance in 29 markets and in 2L
Pandemic £2,309m maintenance in 29 markets
Oncology £602m Cabenuva HIV treatment £340m >100% AER; First and only complete long-acting
(Vocabria + >100% CER injectable regimen (cabotegravir, rilpivirine).
Rekambys in Launched in over 20 countries
Europe and Japan)
Blenrep Blood cancer – £118m +33% AER; An antibody-drug conjugate commercially
multiple myeloma +25% CER available in 19 countries for patients with
relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma
Rukobia HIV treatment £82m +82% AER; Extended-release tablets for people living
+64% CER with multi-drug resistant HIV-1 for use in
combination with other antiretrovirals.
Approved in the US, Canada and Europe
Apretude HIV prevention £41m First and only long-acting injectable
(cabotegravir) for HIV prevention. Launched
in the US in 2022
Jemperli Endometrial £21m >100% AER; PD-1-blocking antibody available in 15
cancer >100% CER countries that is continuing to be investigated
for future monotherapy and combination
regimens in multiple tumour types
Sales performance New HIV products delivered sales of over two billion to
£2,474 million, up 78% at AER, 67% at CER, representing
Specialty Medicines sales were £11,269 million, up 37% at
43% of the total HIV portfolio compared to 29% last year.
AER, 29% at CER, driven by consistent double-digit growth
Growth was primarily driven by sales of Dovato and
in all therapy areas. Specialty Medicines, excluding sales of
Cabenuva. Dovato recorded sales of £1,375 million up 75%
Xevudy, were £8,960 million up 23% at AER, 15% at CER.
at AER and 65% at CER and Cabenuva recorded sales of
HIV sales were £5,749 million with growth of 20% at AER, £340 million. Apretude delivered sales of £41 million.
12% at CER. The performance benefited from strong
Immuno-inflammation, Respiratory and Other sales were
patient demand for the new HIV medicines (Dovato,
£2,609 million up 29% at AER, 20% at CER on strong
Cabenuva, Juluca, Rukobia and Apretude), which
performance of Benlysta and Nucala. Benlysta sales were
contributed approximately three quarters of the growth.
£1,146 million, up 31% at AER, 20% at CER, representing
US pricing favourability and year-end inventory build
strong underlying demand in US and worldwide. Nucala
together contributed one third of the growth which
sales were £1,423 million, up 25% at AER, 18% at CER,
was partially offset by International tender decline.
reflecting continued strong patient demand and the
launch of additional indications.
34GSK Annual Report 2022
35
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Performance: Specialty Medicines continued
Oncology sales were £602 million, up 23% at AER, 17% at In immunology/respiratory, we continue to see strong
CER. Zejula sales of £463 million were up 17% at AER, 12% demand from Benlysta and Nucala.
at CER driven by the first-line indication, but with diagnosis
– Benlysta for systemic lupus erythematosus and lupus
and treatment rates continuing to be impacted by the
nephritis in adults and children continues to perform
pandemic especially in the US. Sales of Blenrep of £118
strongly, with around 9,000 US patients initiating therapy
million grew 33% at AER, 25% at CER, and included the
in 2022. It also became China’s only biologic medicine of
impact of withdrawal from US market in Q4 2022.
its kind, helping around 12,500 patients in 2022. We’re
Sales of Xevudy were £2,309 million, compared to £958 focused on supporting earlier identification and greater
million sales in 2021. Sales were delivered in all regions, urgency to treat patients before lupus progresses and
comprising £828 million in the US, £456 million in Europe, organ damage occurs (see page 24)
and £1,025 million in International. – Nucala, the only targeted biologic therapy approved for
use across four eosinophilic diseases, continues to be a
Our strategy for growth driver of growth. We expanded access to Nucala in 2022
Our portfolio of Specialty Medicines is focused on four with approvals in Europe, Japan and the US for a 40mg
therapeutic areas: infectious diseases, HIV, immunology/ syringe for use at home with children. This follows earlier
respiratory and oncology. We're leaders in infectious approvals for at-home use for adults. The evidence
diseases and HIV innovation and we’re also building our behind Nucala continues to grow, and in 2022 we shared
positions in immunology and oncology. In the next five two-year data from REALITI-A, the real-world study
years, we expect Specialty Medicines and HIV as a part of with Nucala in patients with severe eosinophilic asthma,
Specialty to continue to be an important part of our growth. demonstrating how IL-5 inhibition in everyday practice
The increasing convergence of disease prevention and can help to achieve treatment goals. Our pioneering
treatment and our expertise in vaccines and medicines work in IL-5 inhibition continues with the research into
mean we are uniquely placed to focus on connections depemokimab, a monoclonal antibody specifically
between treatment and prevention. engineered with an increased affinity for IL-5 and a longer
duration of action to allow longer periods of time between
We do this by accelerating our pipeline as well as
injections (see page 24)
prioritising strategic business development which
In oncology, Zejula is the only monotherapy PARP inhibitor
complements are existing portfolio, such as our acquisition
approved in first-line therapy for newly diagnosed patients
of Sierra Oncology and global licence agreement with
with advanced ovarian cancer, regardless of biomarker.
Mersana Therapeutics.
This group of patients represents a significant area of
Drivers of growth across the portfolio growth as healthcare providers are using PARPs more in a
In HIV, our strategy for growth now and in the future is first-line setting. Since COVID-19 we have seen the number
built on our innovative portfolio of medicines that are of patients presenting to their doctors with ovarian cancer
transforming the HIV treatment and prevention landscape. symptoms decline and the volume of newly diagnosed
ovarian cancer patients is 15-20% below pre-COVID (2019)
– Launched in 2019, our dolutegravir-based two-drug
monthly averages. We expect that numbers will increase
regimen, Dovato, continues to build positive momentum,
again as patients return to normal health practices. We’re
benefiting over 143,000 people living with HIV globally
now working to develop other combination therapies with
and delivering £1,375 million of revenue in 2022.
Zejula (see page 26).
– Our long-acting therapies are also central to our growth
and are delivering results as they launch across our Daprodustat, our treatment for anaemia of chronic kidney
markets. disease, is the market-leading and preferred HIF-PHI in
Japan, where it’s available as Duvroq. In February 2023
– In 2021 we launched the only long-acting treatment
daprodustat was approved as Jesduvroq in the US for
regimen, Cabenuva (known as Vocabria + Rekambys in
adults on dialysis. We are seeking approval in the EU and
Europe and other markets). Non-inferior to daily anti-viral
expect to have a decision mid-2023 (see page 27).
therapy and dosed once every two months, Cabenuva
addresses the challenges associated with daily oral Our COVID-19 treatment Xevudy, developed with Vir
therapy of stigma, adherence and daily pill fatigue. Biotechnology, continued to play an important role in
– In January 2022 we launched Apretude in the US. It's the pandemic response for vulnerable patients in 2022. To date
only long-acting medicine for HIV prevention offering we have delivered more than two million doses to over 30
superior efficacy to daily oral prevention (FTC/TDF countries, generating over £3 billion in sales.
tablets) and two-monthly dosing. The launch was
supported by a direct-to-consumer campaign, as well as
innovative community-driven interventions focused on
reaching key populations who could benefit most from a
preventative option.
– By 2026 we estimate our long-acting regimens Cabenuva
and Apretude will generate around £2 billion of sales,
representing around a third of HIV net sales.GSK Annual Report 2022
Performance: Specialty Medicines continued
Building our commercial capabilities Our use of digital, data and analytics in 2022 extends to
driving Medical Affairs effectiveness. Advanced analytics
We are delivering growth across our portfolio by continuing
and text mining has produced medical insights which allow
to focus on disciplined commercial and medical execution,
for high-quality scientific engagement with experts to
capability enhancement, competitive resourcing in
improve patient outcomes. We’ll continue to prioritise use of
customer-facing activity and rigorous investment
omnichannel communication platforms in Medical Affairs
allocation.
to engage HCPs on the latest scientific advances.
Attaining and keeping leading positions in our markets
means attracting and retaining the best people in our
Managing our global supply chain
industry. We’ve focused on developing our leaders internally
Our supply chain is a global network that enabled us to
and we recruit specific marketing and commercial experts
produce and deliver 1.8 billion packs in 2022. We've
from outside the business.
streamlined our network to make it smaller, more agile and
Over the last year, 67% of senior commercial leadership more resilient, with the capacity and capability to bring the
appointments in Specialty Medicines were internal. We next generation of medicines to patients all over the globe.
recruited senior people externally to drive growth in
Amid geopolitical uncertainties, we're focused on the
oncology and supplement our specialty global marketing
availability of energy and commodities, and on managing
capability in our top 10 markets.
constraints around freight and other resources needed to
We’ve also focused on strengthening sales execution supply medicines to patients. Despite these challenges, our
capability in our markets. We appointed 16 general programme of productivity and efficiency improvements
managers in 2022, bringing fresh leadership into remains on track. This year we delivered £23 million in
26% of these positions. savings through the programme, taking the cumulative
total to £62 million. Our target for the programme is to
Maintaining strong links with healthcare deliver £119 million in savings by 2025. These savings
professionals and patients support improvements in gross margin.
Connecting with HCPs and patients helps us to meet their We have 25 sites manufacturing medicines in our GSK
needs. It also helps us to keep them informed about clinical network. Overall, site productivity has increased by 3.9%
data, products in our pipeline and upcoming launches. The year on year over the last three years.
more effectively we interact, the better they understand the
science behind our products, their benefits and how best to Strengthening our manufacturing base
use them.
Modern manufacturing facilities help us launch specialty
We have scaled up our use of data-led omnichannel medicines quickly so we can build and strengthen our
communication platforms to reach more patients face-to- market positions and performance.
face and digitally. To date, we've digitally enabled 27
In June 2022, we opened our new manufacturing facility
brands and 447 campaigns across 44 markets, doubling
at Barnard Castle in the UK. It is sustainably designed,
our efforts compared to last year, and resulting in
paperless and fully automated, using robotic aseptic
incremental growth and market share.
filling technology to increase efficiency. The facility will
manufacture many of the existing and new
biopharmaceutical assets in our pipeline.
36GSK Annual Report 2022
37
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Performance: Specialty Medicines continued
We also opened our expanded facility at Upper Merion, Supporting our Innovation ambition
Pennsylvania, which is now one of the most advanced
Our Specialty Medicines supply chain continues to support
single-use facilities for the manufacture of bulk drug
our innovation strategy by delivering launch products across
substances and able to manufacture a wide range of
therapy areas and regions worldwide. We are making our
biopharmaceutical pipeline assets, including monoclonal
internal and external network flexible enough to enable
antibodies. Our expanded facility at Rockville, Maryland, is
on-time launches of our upcoming medicines. We're also
on target to start manufacturing in 2023. This facility
working with R&D by investing in rapid knowledge transfer
combines single-use systems, large-scale stainless steel
from chemistry manufacturing & control project teams to
manufacturing and automation to produce our lupus
manufacturing sites.
treatment, Benlysta. The investment of more than $150
million will increase capacity at Rockville by around 50%. Following a successfully managed rapid launch of our
COVID-19 therapeutic Xevudy (sotrovimab), by the end of
We're also investing over £60 million in our new oral solid
2022 over two million doses of Xevudy had been supplied
dose facility at Ware in the UK to help us deliver new
globally. We are also preparing for the successful launch
products at pace, in partnership with R&D. Product
and supply of late-stage assets like daprodustat and
performance qualification (the first set of batches that
momelotinib (if approved) in 2023. Our Specialty Medicines
confirm the commercial manufacturing process performs
supply chain will support multiple late-stage clinical
as expected) is due to start in the second half of 2023.
programmes and further upcoming launches in the second
Streamlining our supply chain helps us control costs and half of 2023 and 2024.
allocate more capital to developing, launching and
F or details about the General Medicines supply chain, see page 40
marketing medicines. This includes investing in AI/ML
which helps us to optimise yield, inventory and on-time
in-full (OTIF) delivery.
Maintaining a consistent and reliable supply
A reliable, high-quality supply of products is essential for us
to meet patients’ needs and maintain our performance. We
routinely update our quality management system (QMS) to
keep pace with the evolving regulatory environment and
new scientific understanding of our products and
processes. We've also made our policies and procedures
simpler to understand and implement.
We've improved deviation rates, and reliability of supply
remains strong with an OTIF measure of 97.2% across our
full supply chain and 99.4% for Specialty Medicines.
F or information on product governance and data on recalls,
regulatory inspections and audits, see pages 49 and 50GSK Annual Report 2022
Commercial operations
Performance: General Medicines
From antibiotics to inhaled medicines for asthma and COPD, we have
over 150 general medicine products, many of them leaders in their class,
making life better for millions of people worldwide.
Escherichia coli (E. coli) bacteria
38GSK Annual Report 2022
39
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Performance: General Medicines
Turnover
Key marketed products
£10.1bn
Product Disease Total revenue Key information
Trelegy Ellipta COPD, asthma £1,729m +42% AER; Most prescribed single inhaler triple therapy
+5% AER, +1% CER +32% CER worldwide, reaching an estimated 5.1 million
patients since launch
Seretide/Advair Asthma, COPD £1,159m -15% AER; One of the market-leading ICS/LABA2
-17% CER treatments worldwide
Relvar/Breo Asthma, COPD £1,145m +2% AER; One of the leading ICS/LABA treatments
Ellipta -2% CER worldwide powered by its 24-hour, sustained
efficacy and the convenience of the Ellipta
inhaler device
Ventolin Asthma, COPD £771m +7% AER; Global market-leading SABA3 reliever
+2% CER
Augmentin Common bacterial £576m +35% AER; Global leader in oral antibiotics available in
infections +38% CER over 95 countries
Lamictal Epilepsy, bipolar £511m +7% AER; No. 1 brand by sales value in the global
disorder +1% CER lamotrigine market
Respiratory £6,548m Anoro Ellipta COPD £483m -4% AER; Global market leader in the LAMA/LABA1
Other General Medicines £3,570m -9% CER class approved in over 70 countries
Avodart & Benign prostatic £330m -1% AER; Market leaders by sales value in the global
Duodart hyperplasia (BPH) -3% CER dutasteride and dutasteride+tamsulosin
FDC4 market respectively, approved in over
85 countries
Avamys/ Allergic rhinitis £321m +8% AER; Global leader in the inhaled corticosteroids
Veramyst +6% CER prescription class
Dermovate, Inflammatory £200m 0%AER, Global leader in topical corticosteroids across
Betnovate, skin conditions +1% CER 60 markets globally
Cutivate, Eumovate
1 LABA/LAMA: long-acting beta agonists/long-acting muscarinic antagonists
2 ICS/LABA: inhaled corticosteroid/long-acting beta agonists
3 SABA: short-acting beta agonist
4 FDC: fixed dose combination
Key information source IQVIA
Sales performance This partially offsets the ongoing adverse impact of
generic competition, and approximately two percentage
General Medicines sales in the year were £10,118 million,
points impact at AER and CER from the divestment of
up 5% at AER, 1% at CER, with the impact of generic
cephalosporin products in Q4 2021.
competition in US, Europe and Japan offset by Trelegy
growth in respiratory and the post-pandemic rebound
of the antibiotic market since H2 2021, in Other General Our strategy for impact
Medicines. The General Medicines portfolio encompasses our primary
care medicines from pre-launch R&D assets to growth
Respiratory sales were £6,548 million, up 8% at AER, 3%
and established products. In 2022, General Medicines
at CER. The performance was driven by Trelegy sales of
contributed over one third of GSK's sales, helping to fuel
£1,729 million, up 42% AER, 32% CER, including strong
growth and investment in R&D.
growth across all regions. Advair/Seretide sales of £1,159
million decreased 15% at AER, 17% at CER predominantly Our combination of more than 150 products, several of
reflecting the adverse impact of generic competition, with which are market leaders, are expected to impact the lives
growth in certain International markets due to targeted of millions of patients over the next 10 years. Our products
promotion offsetting the decrease. are supplied in more than 112 countries worldwide,
delivering over 80% of our total medicines supply volume.
Other General Medicines sales were £3,570 million,
Every day, these medicines improve health and make life
decreasing 1% at AER, 2% at CER. Augmentin sales were
better for millions of people all over the world.
£576 million, up 35% at AER, 38% at CER, reflecting the
post-pandemic rebound of the antibiotic market since H2
2021 in the International and Europe regions.GSK Annual Report 2022
Performance: General Medicines continued
With expected growth from Trelegy, Anoro, the established Maximising commercial capabilities
products portfolio in emerging markets and, if successful,
We have a targeted investment strategy to deliver returns,
gepotidacin and, tebipenem, we are committed to
backing our largest opportunities, both branded and
positively impacting more lives every day.
geographic, to maximise launches in new medicines
We continue to focus on maximising investment in our and indications. In parallel, we target our investments
growth brands and new opportunities, while managing the appropriately to optimise returns in mature brands where
expected decline of other products in mature markets as there is a broader range of opportunity and risk.
they lose their exclusivity. The decline in established
We continue to invest in omnichannel and digital customer
products is well managed, through targeted investments
engagement. Digital plays an important role in how we
towards growth opportunities and reflects continued strong
connect with our customers, and this is especially important
demand for our core products.
in General Medicines given our expansive global footprint.
Our data-driven customer experience (DDCX) programme
Drivers of growth across the portfolio
for Trelegy was recognised externally by the International
Our main sources of growth in General Medicines in 2022
Customer Experience Awards (iCXA) across all sectors. In
were Trelegy, Anoro and Augmentin.
2021, among 120 companies and 353 initiatives entered, we
Trelegy, our single inhaler triple-therapy for asthma and won three silver awards for Trelegy competing across all
COPD, has continued to accelerate strongly, with growth in industries, in the following categories:
all regions including the US and is the third biggest growth
– Best Business-to-Business Customer Experience Strategy
driver (excluding Xevudy) across GSK’s portfolio this year.
Trelegy, is now prescribed in more than 63 countries, with – Business Change and Transformation
dual indications in key markets. Several new approvals were – Customer Experience Team of the Year
received in 2022, further expanding Trelegy’s availability to
asthma patients in Argentina, Taiwan, New Zealand, Maintaining an efficient supply chain
Oman, Bahrain, South Korea and Kuwait, and COPD Demand for many products in our General Medicines
patients in Kuwait and Indonesia. portfolio increased significantly as COVID-19 lockdowns
lifted and global markets recovered from the effects of the
Trelegy leads market share in our two largest markets, US
pandemic. We increased packs supplied from 1.60 billion in
and Japan, with market shares significantly exceeding the
2021 to 1.64 billion in 2022. This growth demonstrated the
next largest competitor. In 2022 the competitive market
resilience of our General Medicines brands. We anticipate
position for Trelegy was further strengthened by a network
this further increasing to 1.67 billion in 2023.
meta-analysis of the triple therapy class demonstrating
differentiation among the COPD single-inhaler triple To keep our supply chain lean, we continue to simplify
therapies. We continue to expect Trelegy to be a key driver our portfolio by standardising packaging and formats
of growth in General Medicines in the coming years. and discontinuing products. By the end of 2022, General
Medicines had reduced the number of brands in the
Anoro is approved in approximately 70 countries for the
portfolio by a further 9% from 194 to 177, and we plan
treatment of symptomatic COPD. Anoro remains the global
to further discontinue non-priority brands in 2023.
market leader in the LAMA/LABA class, with continued
growth in global sales (ex-US). Anoro has a robust clinical We have also taken key decisions as part of our focus on
data profile which includes head-to-head data within the productivity and efficiency, for example to outsource the
LAMA/LABA class and versus other common initial manufacture of amoxicillin.
maintenance therapy options, such as LAMA.
We rigorously benchmark the performance of our General
Augmentin is a global leader in oral antibiotics and Medicines supply chain against the competition and make
available in 95 countries. It has reached over 2.5 billion thoughtful choices on how we optimise both our cost and
patients since launching 41 years ago, and continues to cash footprint for the portfolio.
grow strongly in emerging markets. Augmentin grew 35%
AER, 38% CER to £576 million with recovery in key emerging F or more about our global supply chain, which also covers
Specialty Medicines, see pages 36 and 37
markets and Europe, recovering stronger than any
competitor post-pandemic. Today, Augmentin is still being
recognised for its impact and recently won the bronze in
the best pharmaceutical product category for the Prix
Galien Golden Jubilee awards in October 2022.
Two important products in our late-stage pipeline,
anticipated to be future growth drivers for General
Medicines, include gepotidacin, for uUTIs and urogenital
gonorrhoea, and tebipenem HBr, a late-stage antibiotic
licensed exclusively from Spero Therapeutics, that may
treat cUTIs (see pages 20 and 22).
40GSK Annual Report 2022
Responsible business
Our approach to ESG is an integral part of our strategy
and investment case. It helps us build trust and create
value for our shareholders and society – so we can
get ahead of disease together.
41
SSStttrrraaattteeegggiiiccc
rrreeepppooorrrttt
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
informationGSK Annual Report 2022
Responsible business
Being a responsible business means getting ahead of The metrics were developed with stakeholder input, and our
disease together in the right way. We therefore need to understanding of the key issues for our industry and our
consider ESG impacts across everything we do, from the company. We are committed to ensuring that our ESG
lab to the patient. That's why ESG is embedded in our Performance Rating responds to stakeholder expectations,
strategy and supports our sustainable performance and so we will continue to review the metrics as our business
long-term growth. It helps us build trust with and deliver and external expectations change.
returns to our stakeholders, reduce risk to our operations
To create the ESG Performance Rating, management
and deliver positive social impact.
sought metrics that:
Our six ESG focus areas – Are well defined to ensure we have a standardised
approach
We can only deliver on our purpose if we embed ESG into
everything that we do. We have identified six ESG focus – Can be used consistently in future years
areas that address what is most material to our business – Are ambitious and achievable
and the issues that matter to our stakeholders. These focus
– Can be externally assured
areas are core to our strategy and are the areas where we
– Are meaningful for stakeholders
can have the greatest positive impact on some of society’s
most urgent challenges. These focus areas are:
How we assess performance
– Access to healthcare GLT is accountable for delivering progress against the
– Global health and health security metrics and regularly reviews performance along with the
– Environment Board’s Corporate Responsibility Committee (CRC). Each
individual metric is assessed as either: on track (metric met
– Diversity, equity and inclusion
or exceeded); on track with work to do (at least 80% of
– Ethical standards metric has been achieved); or off track (metric missed by
– Product governance more than 20%).
Our approach is guided by extensive stakeholder In addition, in order to calculate the overall ESG
engagement and the key issues relevant to our industry and Performance Rating, performance across all metrics is
company. The results of our most recent materiality aggregated to a single score to illustrate whether we are
assessment reaffirmed that the most material issues for our on track, on track with work to do, or off track. This rating
business were well aligned with our six ESG focus areas. is defined below:
We are aware, however, that being a responsible business
is not a static requirement and our operating environment On track: 70% of all metrics are on track
continues to change at pace. We will continue to adapt, On track with work to do: more than 50% of all metrics are
respond and proactively change our approach, to ensure either on track, or on track with work to do
GSK continues to deliver strong ESG performance.
Off track: more than 50% of all metrics are off track
Our ESG Performance Rating
2022 ESG Performance Rating
To support the integration of ESG into strategy delivery and
Our 2022 ESG Performance Rating is on track, based on
to make our ESG performance measurable and verifiable,
83% of all performance metrics being met or exceeded.
we have introduced a new ESG Performance Rating. The
rating is one of our corporate KPIs and measures progress Assessment of performance against our annual targets
against key metrics aligned to each of our six focus areas. has been reviewed, and the overall ESG Performance
In 2022, this included 23 metrics, and we cover our Rating score has been externally assured for 2022.
performance against these in this section of the report.
External benchmarking
Detailed below is how we perform in key ESG ratings that – FTSE4Good: Member of FTSE4Good Index since 2004
we are frequently asked about by investors: – CDP: A- in Climate change, B in Water security, A- in
– Access to Medicines: Ranked 1st in the Access to Forests (palm oil) and B in Forests (timber)
Medicines Index in 2022 and an industry leader in the – Sustainalytics: Low risk rating
2021 Antimicrobial Resistance Benchmark
– MSCI: AA rating
– S&P Corporate Sustainability Assessment: Ranked 2nd
– Moody's ESG solutions: Ranked 2nd in the
in the pharmaceuticals industry with a score of 86 (as at
pharmaceuticals sector
17 February 2023) and included in the DJSI World and
Europe indices – ISS Corporate Rating: B+ rating
F or full details of progress against our six focus areas, our latest materiality assessment and our ESG Performance Rating and 23 metrics,
please see our ESG Performance Report
42GSK Annual Report 2022
43
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Responsible business continued
Access
Our ambition is to positively impact the health of 2.5 billion Vaccines
people by the end of 2030. We will achieve this by We have been a partner with Gavi since its foundation in
developing vaccines and medicines and making them 2000. We reserve our lowest vaccine prices for Gavi and
available through responsible pricing, strategic access similar organisations and, in 2022, we passed the milestone
programmes and partnerships. of supplying Gavi with more than one billion vaccines
since 2010.
Our commitment
Our partnership includes supplying Cervarix, a critical
Make our products available at value-based prices that are
vaccine in lower income countries for addressing cervical
sustainable for our business and implement access
cancer. In 2022, we supplied around 40 million doses of our
strategies that increase the use of our medicines and
pneumococcal vaccine, Synflorix, to eight Gavi-eligible
vaccines to treat and protect underserved people.
countries at our lowest price. Our Rotarix vaccine against
rotavirus reaches children across 27 Gavi-eligible countries
How we assess performance
and four former Gavi countries. Since March 2021, as well as
– Develop and externally publish pricing and access
Synflorix, we have also offered Rotarix through the
principles
Humanitarian Mechanism, to civil society organisations
– Progress towards our 2030 goal of reaching 1.3 billion serving refugees and working in other emergency situations.
people in lower income countries with our products We are also a long-standing supplier of oral polio vaccines
(OPV) through UNICEF and, in 2022 alone, supplied around
Progress in 2022
95 million doses to help eradicate polio.
Putting the right value on innovation
Neglected tropical diseases
We follow a set of pricing and access principles, published
In 2022, we donated 533 million doses of albendazole, a
for the first time in 2022. These help us to get the balance
medicine used to help eliminate lymphatic filariasis and
right between responsible pricing and a sustainable,
treat soil-transmitted helminths. We have also extended our
profitable business that allows us to re-invest financial
soil-transmitted helminths commitment to include pre-
returns in future innovation, while ensuring people can
school children and made an additional commitment to
access medicines and vaccines.
donate albendazole for treatment of echinococcosis.
In 2022, in the US, through GSK and ViiV Healthcare’s Patient
HIV
Assistance Programs Foundation, we provided prescribed
In 2022, ViiV Healthcare and the Medicines Patent Pool
medicines and vaccines to more than 78,000 low-income
(MPP) signed a new voluntary licensing agreement to allow
uninsured, underinsured and Medicare Part D patients.
generic manufacturers to develop, manufacture and supply
In the US, during the year, our combined average net cabotegravir long-acting for HIV pre-exposure prophylaxis.
price (after discounts, rebates or other allowances) for our
ViiV Healthcare also has voluntary licensing agreements
pharmaceutical and vaccines portfolio increased by 1.4%,
with 17 generic manufacturers to produce and sell low-cost
while the average list price increased by 3.8% compared to
single or fixed-dose combination products containing our
4.9% (list) for the industry, which demonstrates we are
HIV medicine dolutegravir for adults in 95 low- and middle-
responsible in our pricing decisions1. Over the past five
income countries, with one direct licence and the others via
years, the average net price for our products decreased
the MPP. There are similar agreements with 14 generic
by 1.1% annually, while the average list price rose by 3.9%
manufacturers for children, covering 123 countries. As a
compared to 5.0% (list) for the industry1.
result of these voluntary licence agreements, around
Reaching patients in lower income countries 21 million people living with HIV across 122 countries had
Our goal is to reach 1.3 billion people in lower income access to a generic product containing dolutegravir by the
countries with our products by the end of 2030, through end of 2022. This is at least 80% of people living with HIV
access initiatives such as voluntary licensing, donations and on antiretrovirals in low- and middle-income countries.
our work with Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance. In 2022, we
In 2022, ViiV Healthcare donated around 7,200 packs of
reached 73 million people with our products and supplied
antiretroviral medicines to NGO partners and national HIV
an additional 533 million doses of albendazole2. In 2022, we
and AIDS programmes to support people living with HIV
ranked first in the Access to Medicines Index for the eighth
who have been impacted by the conflict in Ukraine. ViiV
consecutive time.
has also provided over £800,000 through its Positive Action
programme to support 11 community-based organisations
1 Industry averages are sourced from Drug Channels annual brand-name with humanitarian response activities, both within Ukraine
drug list change report and in surrounding countries hosting refugees.
2 The 73 million figure includes people reached with Synflorix, Rotarix,
Cervarix, OPV and Mosquirix vaccines and people with access to a
generic dolutegravir product through our voluntary licensing agreements;
however it does not include people reached through albendazole, for
which an assessment will be made in 2025 by the WHO and GSKGSK Annual Report 2022
Responsible business continued
Positive Action, ViiV Healthcare's community grant-giving This is a prerequisite for UN agencies to procure the
programme, celebrated its 30th anniversary in 2022 with a vaccine, and an important step in rolling it out in countries
year-long campaign to showcase the people at the heart with moderate to high P. falciparum malaria transmission.
of the programme, the partners in implementation and the
GSK, PATH and Bharat Biotech have agreed a product
progress made through collaboration. It invested more than
transfer to help ensure long-term supply of the RTS,S
£12.6 million in 2022, reaching approximately 392,000
malaria vaccine. We have committed to supply up to 18
people and providing 137 grants across 33 countries.
million doses over the next three years, in addition to our
Malaria donation of up to 10 million doses to the WHO-coordinated
Working with our partners, more than 1.2 million children in Malaria Vaccine Implementation Programme in Ghana,
Africa have now received at least one dose of our malaria Kenya and Malawi.
vaccine, Mosquirix (RTS,S/AS01 E). In September 2022, the
F or full details of our progress against our six focus areas, please
WHO awarded pre-qualification to the vaccine. see our ESG Performance Report
Global health and health security
We use our expertise to address the biggest health In March 2022, the Australian regulator, the Therapeutic
challenges for underserved people around the world. Goods Administration, approved the use of single-dose
medicine tafenoquine in children aged two and above
Our commitment in combination with chloroquine for the radical cure of
P. vivax malaria.
To develop novel products and technologies to treat and
prevent priority diseases, including pandemic threats. The FDA approved Triumeq PD, the first dispersible single
tablet formulation containing dolutegravir for children
How we assess performance weighing more than 10kg, which increases the age-
– Progress three Global Health pipeline assets to address appropriate treatment options for children living with HIV.
priority WHO diseases At the end of 2022, the CHMP of the EMA also issued a
positive opinion recommending marketing authorisation for
Progress in 2022 Triumeq PD for children 14kg and above.
Global health R&D Invasive non-typhoidal salmonella disease can be life-
In June 2022, GSK, including ViiV Healthcare, announced threatening for children in Africa and is a key driver of
a £1 billion investment in R&D to help us get ahead of AMR. We're using our innovative vaccine technology in
infectious diseases in lower income countries. The 10-year partnership with the University of Oxford and Vacc-iNTS,
investment will support R&D on new medicines and vaccines to develop a potential candidate vaccine using our
to prevent and treat tuberculosis (TB), malaria, HIV, enteric Generalised Modules for Membrane Antigens technology.
diseases, and neglected tropical diseases, and to reduce
To help support global R&D, in December 2022, we
AMR. In 2022, we progressed 12 Global Health pipeline
announced the fourth call for proposals as part of the
assets to address priority WHO diseases, including malaria
Africa Open Lab. The call for proposals is aimed at African
and TB, exceeding our target of three.
early-career scientists who are based in sub-Saharan
We want to discover shorter, simpler and safer treatments Africa, with a focus on infectious diseases which
for TB. In 2022, alongside our partners and through public- disproportionately affect sub-Saharan populations,
private research consortiums, we continued to progress our such as malaria, TB and neglected tropical diseases.
pipeline of novel TB medicines. In 2022, we announced
Getting ahead of antimicrobial resistance
positive phase IIa study results for GSK3036656, a new
We have more than 30 R&D projects across medicines
first-in-class candidate medicine for patients with TB.
and vaccines that are relevant to AMR, ranging from early-
Results of the study demonstrated the potential for the
to late-stage development. These include gepotidacin,
candidate to become a component of simpler treatment
which could be the first novel oral antibiotic treatment for
regimens in the future.
uncomplicated urinary tract infections in over 20 years;
In partnership with BioVersys, the University of Lille and the and in 2022, we announced an exclusive licence agreement
Innovative Medicines Initiative (IMI) project, TRIC-TB, we with Spero Therapeutics for tebipenem HBr, a late-stage
also successfully completed phase I trials of BVL-GSK098, antibiotic that may treat complicated urinary tract
which has the potential to help tackle drug resistance by infections. 13 of these projects target pathogens deemed
boosting the activity of an existing antibiotic. 'critical' or 'urgent' by the WHO and the US CDC. See page
22 for more about our R&D pipeline.
With our partners, we’ve brought two products for the
prevention and treatment of malaria to market – the world’s
first vaccine against malaria, and a single-dose, radical
cure for P. vivax malaria.
44GSK Annual Report 2022
45
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Responsible business continued
Surveillance is central to tackling AMR. In 2022, we shared The declaration stated the sector’s willingness to reserve an
data from our long-running Survey of Antibiotic Resistance allocation of real-time production of medicines and
(SOAR) study, which tracks community-acquired respiratory vaccines for distribution to priority populations, as
infections, with the new AMR Register, developed by Vivli. determined by health authorities, during future pandemics.
In 2022, we also worked with the AMR Industry Alliance to
In 2022, GSK concluded a series of contracts under which
publish a new Antibiotic Manufacturing Standard. This
we would provide at least 200 million doses of pandemic
provides clear guidance to manufacturers in the global
influenza vaccine to governments around the world.
antibiotic supply chain to help ensure that their antibiotics
are made responsibly and in compliance with scientifically In February 2022, we extended our pandemic influenza
robust discharge limits. vaccine stockpile contract with the United States
government. This was followed by a renewed agreement, in
F or full details of our progress against our six focus areas, please see
our ESG Performance Report June 2022, for supply of pandemic influenza vaccines to the
WHO, and in July 2022, a contract with the government of
Future pandemic preparedness Canada for both seasonal and pandemic influenza vaccines.
In July 2022, GSK, along with other major biopharmaceutical We signed an agreement with Europe for the reservation
companies, signed up to the Berlin Declaration. This sets out and future production and supply of pandemic influenza
the industry’s vision for equitable access during future vaccines. We are also continuing to partner with the BARDA
pandemics. to manufacture and assess the safety and immunogenicity
of pandemic influenza vaccine candidates.
Environment
We continue to work hard to do more to protect the – Waste and materials
environment, often in partnership with others. We’ve set – Operational waste and material reduction at our sites
clear and measurable targets to help achieve our goals.
– Biodiversity
– Number of high-risk materials implementing
Our commitment
sustainable sourcing roadmaps
Commit to a net zero, nature positive, healthier planet, with
ambitious goals set for 2030 and 2045. Progress in 2022
Climate
How we assess performance
We have set a clear pathway to a net zero impact on
The following metrics are included in our ESG Performance
climate with ambitious goals for 2030 and 2045. We have
Rating and support delivery of our carbon and nature
updated our climate targets to be in line with the new
ambitions:
Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) Net-Zero Standard.
– Climate By 2030, we aim to reduce carbon emissions across all
– Operational emissions reduction (scope 1 and 2 scopes by 80%, against a 2020 baseline, with the
market-based emissions) remaining 20% offset through investment in high-quality
nature-based solutions. We have also now set a longer-
– Industrialisation of green Ventolin initiated, and clinical
term target to reduce carbon emissions by at least 90%
and non-clinical data available to support regulatory
with the remainder tackled through high-quality offsets by
submissions
2045. For additional context on these changes see pages
– Percentage of carbon offset volume in project pipeline
16 and 17 of the ESG Performance Report.
– Water
Targets1:
– Average of the percentage of GSK sites and suppliers
– 80% reduction in carbon emissions and investment in
compliant with wastewater active pharmaceutical
nature-based solutions for the remaining 20% of our
ingredient limits and the percentage of suppliers that
footprint by 2030 (all scopes)2 are compliant with the AMR Industry Alliance Common
Antibiotic Manufacturing Framework and discharge – 100% renewable electricity by 2025 (scope 2)
limits – Net zero emissions across our full value chain by 2045
(all scopes)3
1 Targets are measured against a 2020 baseline
2 Previously stated as net zero by 2030
3 This is a new longer-term target, aligned to the SBTi Net-Zero Standard
definition of net zeroGSK Annual Report 2022
Responsible business continued
Performance – 25% environmental impact reduction for our products
In 2022, we reduced our scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions and packaging by 2030
by 6% compared with 2021. This was primarily through – 10% waste reduction from our supply chain by 2030
increasing our use of renewable electricity and continued – Positive impact on biodiversity at all sites by 2030
delivery of energy efficiency across our sites, such as the
– 100% agricultural, forestry and marine-derived materials
installation of new solar panels, upgraded lighting and
sustainably sourced and deforestation free by 2030
replacing chillers to reduce the use of ozone depleting
refrigerant. As a member of RE100, we have committed Performance
to source 100% renewable electricity by 2025. In 2022, In 2022, we reduced overall water use in our operations by
we reached 73%, an increase of 6% since 2021 and 28% 5% since 2021 and by 1% in sites in high water stress regions.
since 2020. This is a decrease of 23% for overall water use and 6% for
sites in high water stress regions against our 2020 baseline.
Following the demerger of our Consumer Healthcare
This achieved our 2030 overall water use reduction target,
business, we are restating our value chain carbon footprint
which we will now review. 100% of our sites are now good
for our baseline year 2020. In 2021 (our latest available
water stewards, in line with the Alliance for Water
data), our scope 3 emissions reduced by 13% compared
Stewardship’s definition.
with 2020. These reductions reflect the evolution of our
product portfolio. We have initially identified three water basins in water-
stressed areas in Algeria, India and Pakistan where we have
Approximately 29% of our total emissions footprint comes
manufacturing sites, and where we aim to be water neutral.
from the goods and services that we buy. In September
At our manufacturing facility in Nashik, India, we have built
2022, we launched a Sustainable Procurement Programme,
plants for rainwater harvesting.
which will require our suppliers to, among other things,
disclose emissions, set carbon reduction targets aligned In 2022, 100% of our sites and 98% of our suppliers that
with 1.5oC, and switch to renewable power and heat. manufacture antibiotics complied with AMR Alliance
industry standards on safe discharges.
We are also working with our peers through the Energize
programme to encourage the use of renewable energy In 2022, we continued to reduce the waste from our sites
throughout the pharmaceutical sector’s supply chain. In and increase the amount of materials recovered through
2022, nine suppliers formed the first Energize buyer’s cohort, circular routes like reuse or recycling. We are also targeting
who together will purchase two terawatt-hours of materials across our existing product portfolio.
renewable electricity.
We are progressing our plans for net positive biodiversity at
See pages 55 to 62 for our disclosure on climate risk and our own sites by investing in individual site action plans that
resilience in line with the Task Force on Climate-related improve habitats, protect species and improve soil and
Financial Disclosures (TCFD) framework. water quality. In 2022, we completed baseline biodiversity
assessments for 80% of our sites. We have commenced
Nature
biodiversity uplift projects at our three largest R&D facilities.
We are committed to working towards our goal of having a
We have also completed a full assessment of our
net positive impact on nature by 2030, by reducing our
biodiversity impact (across the entire value chain) and
environmental impacts across water, waste and materials,
will be taking targeted actions to address the highly-
and biodiversity and by investing in protecting and
stressed areas.
restoring nature.
In the lead-up to the UN Convention on Biological Diversity,
Targets1:
the critical COP15 conference in Canada at the end of
– Achieve good water stewardship at 100% of our sites by 2022, we worked with partners to call for mandatory
20252 disclosure by businesses and financial institutions of their
impacts and dependencies on nature.
– Reduce overall water use in our operations by 20% by
2030 We are part of the LEAF Coalition (Lowering Emissions by
– Be water neutral in our own operations and at key Accelerating Forest finance), a private-public effort to
suppliers in water-stressed regions by 20302 protect tropical forests. We are also testing a framework for
voluntary carbon credits from the Voluntary Carbon Market
– Zero impact active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) levels
Integrity Initiative, which is working to establish a globally-
for all sites and key suppliers by 20303
standardised benchmark to guide the use of carbon credits
– Zero operational waste, including eliminating single-use
by companies.
plastics, by 20304
See pages 62 to 63 for how we plan to disclose on our
impacts and dependencies on nature in line with the
emerging Taskforce on Nature-related Financial
1 Targets are measured against a 2020 baseline Disclosures (TNFD) framework.
2 See our Environment Basis of reporting for definition
3 Zero impact against predicted no effect concentrations F or full details of our progress against our six focus areas, please
see our ESG Performance Report
4 Where regulatory obligations allow, and excluding plastics which are
critical to product discovery and development and health & safety
46GSK Annual Report 2022
47
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Responsible business continued
Diversity, equity and inclusion
Diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) are central to our Our GSK Science in the Summer initiative offers free,
purpose of getting ahead of disease together. Being an hands-on STEM learning to students in traditionally
inclusive and diverse business – and doing business under-represented groups in STEM careers or from under-
inclusively – makes us more successful, making the most of resourced communities in the US. In 2022, it reached more
our people’s potential and increasing our positive impact. than 30,000 students nationwide.
Nurturing all our people
Our commitment
In 2022, 42% of women held VP-and-above roles globally,
Create a diverse, equitable and inclusive workplace;
compared with 40% in 2021. Women made up 47% of all
enhance recruitment of diverse patient populations in our
employees in 2022, and 50% of all management roles.
clinical trials; and support diverse communities.
We published our sixth UK gender pay gap report in 2022.
Our gender pay gap for all permanent UK-based GSK
How we assess performance
employees is -1.36% (mean), compared to the national
– 75% of phase III trials initiated in 2022 will have proactive
average of 13.9%. We published our first UK ethnicity pay
plans in place designed to enrol appropriately diverse
gap report for 2022 using the same approach as our
trial participants, consistent with disease epidemiology
gender pay gap. Our ethnicity pay gap for all permanent
– Performance towards 2025 aspirations through fair and UK-based GSK employees is 0.06% (mean), at this time
equitable opportunities: there is no national average comparator.
– have women hold at least 45% of VP-and-above roles
In those countries that meet our criteria for data
globally by the end of 2025
confidentiality and anonymity, we disclose the race and
– have at least 30% ethnically diverse leaders in our roles ethnicity of our people at each level and set aspirational
at VP and above in the US, and increase the targets. Currently, the US and the UK meet those criteria. In
percentage of Black or African American, and Hispanic the US in 2022, we have 31.3% of ethnically diverse leaders
or Latinx VP-and-above leaders year on year at VP level and above, reaching our 2025 aspirational
– have at least 18% ethnically diverse leaders in our target of at least 30%, and increasing the percentage of
roles at VP and above in the UK, and increase the Black or African American and Hispanic or Latinx people in
percentage of Black VP-and-above leaders year those roles year on year. In the UK in 2022, we have 14.3% of
on year ethnically diverse leaders at VP and above, continuing to
– Improve year-on-year spend with certified US-based make progress towards our 2025 aspirational target of
diverse-owned suppliers reaching at least 18%. Black representation at VP and
above remains flat and we will be focused in our efforts
Progress in 2022 to achieve our aspiration for year-on-year growth.
Building an inclusive business We are members of the UK government’s Disability
We are committed to improving diversity in clinical trial Confident scheme and are an active member of the
enrolment and are already using our disease insights to set Valuable 500 pledge, a grouping of 500 global companies
diversity enrolment goals. At the end of 2022, 100% of GSK's committed to placing disability inclusion on the leadership
phase III trials had a diversity plan in place to enrol the agenda. We are delivering on the scheme's objectives
groups most affected by the disease being studied, based through our long-term, measurable, disability confidence
on epidemiology data. For example, in our hepatitis B trials, plan, which includes educating our people on the issue.
a disease that disproportionately affects people of African
In 2022, we introduced a new global minimum standard of
and Asian descent, 52% of participants are of Asian origin,
18 weeks' parental leave for primary and secondary carers
and we are actively working to improve the representation
for all forms of family, a new global minimum standard for
of participants of African descent.
care of a family member for end of life or serious health
Our supplier diversity programme is well established in the emergencies, insured benefits to include same sex partners
US, and an expansion plan is being developed for the UK. wherever possible, a new financial wellbeing service and
We have a target to increase spend annually with certified mental health training – available to everyone.
US-based diverse-owned suppliers. This was significantly
This year, we were recognised as a Gold employer within
exceeded in 2022 through a combination of spend
Stonewall’s Top Global Employers Index. Our Allyship
increases with selected suppliers in marketing, sales and
programme received an award recognising the tangible
technology, as well as identification of new global diverse
impact the campaign has had on the lives of LGBT+
suppliers and a strong multi-year strategy of engagement
employees. We also achieved the Human Rights Campaign
with key advocacy groups.
Foundation's Best Places to Work for LGBT+ Equality
standard in 2022.
F or full details of our progress against our six focus areas, please see
our ESG Performance ReportGSK Annual Report 2022
Responsible business continued
Ethical standards
Our culture guides our people to do the right thing and Upholding our commitment to human rights
Speak Up about any concerns they have. It is important that We are signatories to the UN Global Compact and our
all our people live up to this, and we expect the same of our Human Rights Position statement lays out our commitment
suppliers. to the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human
Rights. During the year, we established a Human Rights
Our commitment Steering Group, which has a formal reporting mechanism
Promote ethical behaviour across our business by to the Board’s Corporate Responsibility Committee.
supporting our employees to do the right thing and working
In 2022, we developed guidance to enhance supplier visits
with suppliers that share our standards and operate in a
to help employees better understand labour and human
responsible way.
rights non-compliances. To support this guidance, we
also developed and delivered labour rights training to
How we assess performance environment, health and safety (EHS) and procurement
– 100% of employees and complementary workers employees to better equip them to spot human rights
complete GSK’s 2022 mandatory training issues when visiting suppliers.
– Percentage of employees who believe they ‘can and do We are committed to the application of fair and equitable
Speak Up if things don’t feel right’ is above the general pay practices, which includes ensuring that all employees
industry benchmark1 globally receive pay that is competitive in their local
– Number of employees leaving GSK's employment for markets and sufficient to support a sustainable standard
misconduct in the last 12 months versus the three-year of living. In 2022, we completed the first global living wage
rolling average review in partnership with the Fair Wage Foundation. We
– 80% of direct high-risk suppliers achieve GSK’s minimum assessed the pay of all our employees (over 75,000 people
EcoVadis score or have an improvement plan in place in 87 countries) and differences were detected in fewer
than 200 cases, in 11 countries. All necessary adjustments
Progress in 2022 will be made by the end of the first quarter of 2023. We
will be factoring the living wage data into our standard
Supporting GSK people to do the right thing
compensation processes to ensure that we continue to
In 2022, we launched our new Code of Conduct which
offer a fair wage, and have built an annual living wage
reflects our purpose to unite science, technology and talent
review into our standard cycle.
to get ahead of disease together. Our new Code sets out
the commitments we make as a company and to each Working with third parties
other to deliver on our purpose and ambitions. In 2022, We expect our third parties to meet our ABAC and labour
100% of employees and 98% of complementary workers rights standards and to comply with our standards on
completed the accompanying global mandatory learning quality, health and safety, and the environment. See pages
curriculum where due by year end. 285 to 295 for further information.
Those in certain high-risk roles or geographic regions We updated our Third-Party Risk Management (TPRM)
also complete additional anti-bribery and corruption programme, which evaluates and mitigates risks introduced
(ABAC) training. In 2022, 100% of employees and 96% of by third parties engaged by GSK to provide goods or
complementary workers completed this training where due services.
by year end. Our approach to managing ABAC risk, and
In 2022, for our high-risk third parties – determined by
other risks relating to ethical standards, forms part of our
location in high-risk markets and size of spend – we
well embedded risk management framework, which is
performed 7,168 assessments across 20 risk areas. Over
described in detail on pages 51 to 52.
62% of these assessments presented risks in one or more
Reporting and investigating concerns areas. Most of these third parties are goods and services
This year, we have updated how we report the breakdown providers (77%), distributors and wholesalers (5%), contract
of types of policy violations to provide more granularity manufacturers and suppliers (1%) and direct material
by case class. In 2022, we saw an overall decrease in suppliers (1%). We also use tools to assess how suppliers
disciplinary cases, attributed to, in part, a revision to manage risks, including EcoVadis desktop assessments.
our procedures for discipline regarding late completion of
mandatory training, now reported under the employee
conduct category.
1 The general industry benchmark is 65% according to 2022 research
by KornFerry
48GSK Annual Report 2022
49
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Responsible business continued
We visit sites, in person or virtually, to help suppliers better Privacy and the ethical use of data are part of the global
understand and control their risks. The relaxation of travel mandatory learning curriculum Living our Code that all our
restrictions has allowed us to increase in-person visits to people have to complete. We ensure that key privacy
identify and reduce risk, enabling us to conduct 50 physical personnel have certifications and sufficient training and
visits across 63 priority suppliers this year1. We completed experience to carry out their roles effectively.
warehouse safety surveys for 54 priority suppliers, 38
We are investing in our AI/ML capability to, for example,
contract manufacturing suppliers and 15 large warehouses
help analyse patients’ genetic data. We are mindful that
that hold stock this year. These surveys have generated
AI and machine learning can raise ethical issues and are
corrective and preventative action plans, all of which we
subject to evolving decisions from policymakers on how
expect to complete in 2023.
best to promote trust in these systems and avoid
In 2022, we conducted 47 supplier audits, compared with unintended outcomes or harmful impacts.
49 in 2021, following industry standard Pharmaceutical
In R&D, we have oversight boards and a new advisory
Supply Chain Initiative guidelines, with any corrective and
panel that oversees controls to manage how we use or
preventative actions tracked to completion. We have also
re-use data and respond to bioethical questions in our
trained more than 600 supplier employees on EHS and ESG
research activities.
fundamentals in 2022, revised EHS contractual obligations,
tracked management actions to completion and have Political engagement
helped suppliers improve their EcoVadis scores2. See page As a major multinational company, we seek to contribute to
293 for further information. public policy debate, especially in relation to life sciences
and healthcare. In all of our political engagements, we are
Data and engagement
committed to ensuring that we adhere to the highest
We have created a new digital, privacy and information
ethical standards and legislative requirements. We do not
security team within Legal and Compliance, to streamline
make corporate political contributions, nor do we sponsor
support and provide expertise around GSK’s digital and
party political meetings anywhere around the world.
data strategy.
F or full details of our progress against our six focus areas, please
see our ESG Performance Report
Product governance
Ensuring the quality, safety and reliable supply of our – Total number of Class I/II external product recalls across
products is critical to protecting patients and delivering all markets
health impact. – Register and disclose all human subject research of GSK
products. Specifically, register protocol summaries for
Our commitment studies initiated in 2022; and disclose results summaries
We commit to maintaining robust quality and safety for studies with results due in 2022
processes, and using data and new technologies
responsibly. Progress in 2022
A focus on quality management
How we assess performance
Our GSK Quality Management System is a detailed and
– Average number of critical and major findings by specific framework which describes how we comply with
FDA/MHRA/EMA regulators3 regulatory requirements and other standards across
– Percentage of inspections from all regulators with no our markets. It addresses global and local regulations
critical findings or official action indicated across manufacturing and distribution processes, and is
based on principles defined by the International Council
– Number of FDA warning letters
for Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for
Pharmaceuticals for Human Use.
1 Our EHS priority suppliers are API suppliers who are, or will be, medically-,
R&D- or revenue-critical to GSK, or are high spend suppliers
2 The 600 supplier employees trained includes data from our previous
Consumer Healthcare business
3 We consider any observations from the FDA as majorGSK Annual Report 2022
Responsible business continued
Inspections, recalls and audit Maintaining pharmacovigilance
In 2022, we had 122 regulatory inspections at our Pharmacovigilance aims to protect those who use
manufacturing sites and local operating companies, medicines and vaccines and support public health
compared with 111 in 2021. We remain prepared for programmes with reliable, comprehensive information on
inspections from regulators and received no warning letters the overall benefit-risk balance of our products. We have a
from the US FDA or critical findings from the Medicines and well established and rigorous worldwide system to monitor
Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) and EMA and review the safety of our products throughout clinical
regulators in 2022; however we received one critical finding development and after regulatory approval.
from the Chinese regulator1. We continue to learn from and
Vigilance against falsified medicines and vaccines
respond to all inspection findings, taking the necessary
We have a robust approach to handling all falsified product
action to address them.
incidents, ensuring that cases of confirmed counterfeit
Throughout 2022, we had no Class I product recalls. There products are reported to the WHO and to relevant
were fewer Class II and III recalls than in 20212. We will not regulatory authorities. We actively participate in legal
hesitate to voluntarily recall products to protect patients. proceedings against illegal actors, provide regular training
to customs and local authorities and we monitor online
Working with our suppliers on quality
marketplaces and social media to request takedowns of
We expect all our contract manufacturers and suppliers to
sites illicitly selling prescription-only medicines.
comply with GSK standards, and regularly conduct audits
to verify that they do. In 2022, we conducted 1,060 quality Committed to transparency
audits of suppliers, with an increased focus on API suppliers. As part of our commitment we have made 7,377 protocol
summaries and 6,295 summaries of results available since
We have a comprehensive quality oversight model that is
the set-up of the GSK trial register in 2004. We have also
aligned to our Quality Management System and uses a
listed 2,559 studies for data sharing via www.vivli.org and
risk-based approach to assess, qualify, manage and
www.clinicalstudydatarequest.com.
monitor our third-party suppliers, driving continuous
performance. F or full details of our progress against our six focus areas, please see our
ESG Performance Report
1 Critical finding from one inspection by the Chinese regulator of a
third-party manufacturing facility used by GSK
2 Class I recalls are triggered by a reasonable probability that the use of or
exposure to a violative product will cause serious adverse health
consequences or death. Class II recalls address the use of or exposure to a
violative product which may cause temporary or medically reversible
adverse health consequences, or where the probability of serious adverse
health consequences is remote. Class III recalls relate to the use of or
exposure to a violative product which is not likely to cause adverse health
consequences
50GSK Annual Report 2022
51
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Risk management
Our Board continuously reviews and oversees our risk management and
internal control framework, which reflects who we are as a responsible
biopharma company with bold ambitions for patients.
Managing our risks in line with our long-term Assessing emerging and current risks
priorities Our risk assessment process considers the likelihood and
Our well embedded risk management and internal control impact of risks, and the timescale over which a risk could
framework gives our Board the ability to evaluate and occur. As well as considering current risks, we evaluate
oversee how the company manages principal and emerging risks that could affect our ability to achieve our
emerging risks in line with our strategy and long-term long-term priorities – that is, risks on the three-year horizon,
priorities as a fully-focused biopharma company, following in line with our viability statement. We also define risks as
this year's demerger of Haleon. Our company-wide policy ‘emerging’ if we need to know more about how likely they
sets out the requirements, roles and responsibilities for the are to materialise, or what impact they would have if they
management and governance of risks and controls, as well did. We'll evaluate whether to investigate further before
as supporting guidance on the essential elements of our classifying them as principal risks.
internal control framework. We routinely evaluate our Our risk management and compliance boards at all levels
framework for improvements.
of the organisation identify emerging risks on an ongoing
basis, and ROCC discusses emerging risks at each meeting.
Board oversight of risk appetite and At the same time, we scan the risk horizon throughout the
management systems year to identify external trends that may be opportunities
The Board oversees our risk management system and and/or emerging risks and monitor our business activities
establishes our risk appetite, supported by the Audit & Risk and internal environment.
Committee (ARC). The Corporate Responsibility Committee
ROCC conducts an annual risk review to assess principal
(CRC) and Science Committee further assess the
and emerging risks for the company. This review is
effectiveness of risk management strategies that fall within
supported by extensive analysis of external trends and
their defined remits. Our Risk Oversight & Compliance
insights, senior-level interviews and recommendations from
Council (ROCC) helps the ARC, CRC and Science
risk management and compliance boards and risk owners.
Committee to oversee the risks, and the strategies used
ROCC shares this annual review with the ARC and Board
to address them. Alongside this, risk management and
for assessment, forming the basis for the following year’s
compliance boards across the Group promote the ‘tone
risk management focus.
from the top’, establish our risk culture and oversee the
effectiveness of risk management activities, while also
Enabling effective risk management, in line
communicating information about internal controls.
with our culture
Management is held accountable for delivering on
its objectives in line with the established risk appetite We define enterprise risk plans that include a description of
pertaining to principal risks. An enterprise risk owner is the risk, its context, our assessment, risk appetite, how we
responsible for each principal risk, overseen by a GLT will treat the risk, and the actions businesses need to take in
member. Risk owners report risk and mitigation to ROCC line with our internal control framework to mitigate the risk.
and the appropriate Board committee each quarter. Legal These plans enable our Board committees to assess the
and Compliance support these efforts by advising on our effectiveness of our risk management strategies.
business strategies, activities, risks and controls, and Audit
We report risks to ROCC and the Board committees every
& Assurance provides assessments of the adequacy and
quarter, to drive more dynamic, data-driven discussions,
effectiveness of our framework.
agile risk management strategies and oversight. We report
on existing control measures, implementation, emerging
risks, external insights and key risk indicators, with risk
reporting thresholds aligned to risk appetite. We include
risks and mitigations associated with relevant events
around us, such as COVID-19 and geopolitical tensions.GSK Annual Report 2022
Risk management continued
Our Code sets out the overarching expectations for our COVID-19 pandemic
employees and complementary workers. Our risk
The potential impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on GSK’s
management framework complements our culture and
trading performance and all its principal risks is continually
Speak Up processes in making sure that we identify and
assessed, with appropriate mitigation plans put in place
mitigate risks effectively. We monitor our most important
on an as-needed basis. In 2022, GSK was encouraged by
risks and take action to address issues. Our annual
the uptake of its vaccines and medicines. The company
confirmation exercise checks that key risks are well
remains confident in the underlying demand for its vaccines
managed, or that actions are in place to address gaps. Our
and medicines, especially given the significant number of
principal risks include controls for responding to problems
COVID-19 vaccinations and boosters administered
within their risk plans. We also have business continuity
worldwide. However, the pandemic remains a dynamic
planning embedded in our framework and our critical
ongoing risk, with the WHO continuing to monitor the
processes, so we can continue business operations in the
emergence of new variants. The current rate of infection
event of a crisis.
is predominantly driven by the circulation of the BA.5
subvariant and its descendent lineages, which are still the
Our current risks dominant subvariants of Omicron globally. While COVID-19
The table starting on page 53 shows our current principal vaccines are being updated with Omicron variants to
risks and respective trends, assessments and mitigation provide broader immunity against circulating and emerging
activities for the year. These are not in order of significance. variants, these subvariants and potential future variants of
For full risk definitions, potential impact, context and concern could potentially impact GSK’s trading results,
mitigating activities, see Principal risks and uncertainties on clinical trials, supply continuity and its employees materially.
pages 285 to 295. The Separation principal risk was
removed in July 2022 following successful demerger and Changes to our risks for 2023
analysis of any residual risk.
In our December 2022 annual risk review, the ARC agreed
Other risks, not at the level of principal risks, and to ROCC’s recommendation of our principal risks for 2023,
opportunities, related to ESG, including environmental which remain largely unchanged. We identified a new
sustainability and climate change, are managed through principal risk, Legal Matters, which brings into greater
our six focus areas, as described in our ESG Performance focus a range of legal risks. As a result, Anti-bribery and
Report. Additional information on climate-related risk Corruption will no longer be a stand-alone principal risk in
management is in our climate-related financial disclosures, 2023. Additionally, we expanded our Information Security
see pages 55 to 61. principal risk to explicitly include cyber risks. We also
identified data management as a new emerging risk for
2023, which we will evaluate during the year. The 2022
emerging risks of geopolitical tensions and healthcare
reform were embedded in our risk management activities
throughout the year and will not be reported separately
for 2023.
V iability statement, see page 64
A RC report, see page 124
I nternal control framework, see page 125
L egal proceedings, see page 265
E nvironment, see page 45
C limate-related financial disclosures report, see page 55
52GSK Annual Report 2022
53
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
2022 Principal risks summary
Trend versus
Risk prior year Assessment and mitigation activities
Patient The external risk environment remains stable. The regulatory environment remains
safety External challenging, with recent examples of evolving regulatory requirements related to safety
reporting for clinical trials. Also, there is a risk that external parties, including regulatory
agencies and technology companies, may reach conclusions and communicate information
about the safety of our products based on real-world evidence that is not available to us.
This could inhibit our ability to make timely decisions and take appropriate action in relation
to the safety of our products, or to confirm or refute conclusions asserted by external parties.
Our risk exposure remains stable. We continue to balance resources between change
programmes while maintaining routine activities. In 2022, we've allocated resources to
GSK
optimise pharmacovigilance operations, advance innovative solutions for safety case
management, and simplify key safety processes. Change initiatives have the short-term
potential to distract focus from our key business priorities. However, such changes will reduce
our overall risk exposure by increasing workload capacity and organisational capability.
Product The external risk environment is stabilising and remains high following COVID-19, with
quality External regulators resuming multiple on-site inspections to check that product quality expectations
are met. There continues to be a focus on data governance and data integrity requirements,
and on evaluation of products for the presence of nitrosamines. The regulatory environment is
evolving with respect to continued use of titanium dioxide in medicines, with the EMA due to
make a decision on potential discontinuation in 2024.
Our risk exposure has stabilised as we return to pre-pandemic levels of health authority
inspections. We continue with inspection readiness programmes to ensure full preparedness.
GSK
We've continued to invest in technology and digital platforms to strengthen our controls
around good data management practices. We've completed all nitrosamine product
assessments in line with regulatory expectations.
Financial The external risk environment remains challenging due to political uncertainty, proposed
controls External increases in the obligations of directors and auditors, increasing threats of cyber attacks and
and reporting fraud, and increasing ESG disclosure requirements.
Our risk exposure remains stable due to our ongoing focus on the resilience of personnel and
GSK the testing of our internal control framework. We implement optimal risk mitigation through
transformational programmes, technology, centralised processes, and risk and control
assessments, and maintain effective tax and treasury strategies. We continually strengthen our
control frameworks and collaborate with external bodies on setting standards.
Anti-bribery The external risk environment remains stable. The enforcement of anti-corruption laws and
and corruption External regulations remains a priority in many countries, in particular the US and the UK, with a
(ABAC) continued focus on investigating the use of third parties to bribe foreign public officials. As
a result, rigorous anti-bribery and corruption controls are expected. Disruption to global
supply chains and the commercial pressures caused by higher-than-usual inflation rates
may increase the risks of bribery and corruption in certain contexts in the coming years.
Our risk exposure remains stable as we continuously improve our ABAC programme to
make sure that our controls match evolving and emerging risks. We've enhanced our
GSK
mandatory ABAC training for all employees, and we provide role- and risk-tailored ABAC
training on an ongoing basis. We also impose stringent ABAC training requirements on
certain third parties who provide services for or on our behalf.
Commercial The external risk environment has stabilised. Macroeconomic factors such as energy price
practices External increases, inflationary pressure, and ongoing effects of the COVID-19 pandemic contribute
to a challenging environment for all stakeholders. Competitive pressure remains intense
across therapy areas and market segments. Governments remain focused on initiatives to
drive down medicine and vaccine costs for consumers.
Our risk exposure remains stable. We have a mature and robust control environment, which
GSK has evolved to match the competitive enhancements to our commercial practices,
including higher volumes of engagement with healthcare professionals and strengthened
sales force incentive schemes.GSK Annual Report 2022
2022 Principal risks summary continued
Trend versus
Risk prior year Assessment and mitigation activities
Scientific The external risk environment remains stable. It continues to be characterised by complex,
and patient External dynamic disease areas and treatments with increased patient-centric focus during all
engagement phases of the product lifecycle, increasing diversity of engagement platforms and more
virtual engagements.
Our risk exposure remains stable. We continue to mitigate risk by modernising and adjusting
our engagement practices and internal controls to the rapidly evolving environment. We
GSK
have internal networks to foster collaboration and best practice sharing, as well as the
identification of emerging risks associated with scientific and patient engagement activities.
Data ethics The external risk environment continues to increase as the global landscape of data
and privacy External protection, privacy and cyber laws develops. Given that the current pace of technology-
focused innovation is expected to continue, companies need to be mindful of relevant
potential legislation and regulations. The increasing trend for data sovereignty, initially
affecting tech companies, could affect healthcare companies in their ability to drive medical
innovation and to effectively operate internationally.
Our risk exposure is increasing in the context of an unstable privacy regulatory environment
GSK and our multinational footprint, as we re-align with our digital transformation and focus on
data-driven science. Laws in our key markets such as the US, EU, UK, China and India
continue to evolve, including those relating to international data transfer mechanisms.
Research The external risk environment remains stable. Research remains critical to the development
practices External of safe and effective products. Advances in technology, use of data, societal expectations
and ethical considerations and new entrants to the sector continue to influence the
environment. Global regulations and quality standards continue to evolve, and are
particularly impactful when expectations change or there are country-specific
requirements.
Our risk exposure remains stable, as laws and regulations are continually evolving.
GSK We continue to perform robust risk scanning and assessments that inform the evolution of
our control framework in response to regulatory changes, ensuring clear accountabilities
for actions.
Environment, The external risk environment remains stable. Manufacturing sites are operating at full
health and External staffing levels. Work location arrangements have been made to maintain the safety and
safety wellbeing of employees affected by the Ukraine conflict.
(EHS) Our risk exposure remains stable. We've continued to focus on safety leadership training,
embedding our Life Saving Rules, and adhering to our EHS standards. We're introducing
GSK
our Safety Leadership Experience across Global Supply Chain, and R&D operations. This
programme trains leaders to take EHS accountability and make sure all our people
understand the importance of adhering to our EHS standards.
Information The external risk environment continues to rise as digital footprints increase and threats
security External from hackers become more sophisticated. Growing geopolitical conflicts have significantly
increased cyber risk to large corporations. Governments are tightening regulatory
frameworks with regards to data and information, and we are seeing a rise in enforcement
of them.
Our risk exposure continues to increase as we operate in an increasingly digital healthcare
GSK
ecosystem and continue to expand our own digital footprint. In response, our cyber security
maturity programme continues to improve our controls and governance to identify, protect,
detect, respond to and recover from cyber incidents.
Supply The external risk environment is increasing due to unpredictable external forces that put
continuity External pressure on the resilience of our supply chains. These include geopolitical tensions and
growing nationalistic approaches (including US-China decoupling).
Our risk exposure remains stable. Across our Medicines and Vaccines supply chains, we
continue to focus on strategic materials planning parameters, adapting to changes in the
GSK
external environment, including inventory strategies, safety stocks and hedging. We're
making a concerted effort to stabilise and accelerate newly acquired assets and we're
focusing on making sure we recruit the right people to support our future portfolio.
54GSK Annual Report 2022
55
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Risk management continued
Climate-related financial disclosures
GSK climate-related financial disclosures are consistent These metrics include climate-related metrics such as
with the recommendations and recommended disclosures reduction in scope 1 & 2 emissions and reaching key
of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures milestones in the R&D programme to reduce greenhouse
(TCFD) including the TCFD all-sector guidance, and gas emissions (GHG) in metered dose inhalers for asthma
in compliance with the requirements of LR 9.8.6R.(8) and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, see page 148.
(UK Listing Rules).
GSK Leadership Team (GLT)
GSK has been reporting on climate-related financial The GLT meets regularly and is an opportunity for members
disclosures in accordance with the TCFD recommendations to discuss strategic, financial and reputational matters.
since 2019, with the purpose of building trust and
Regis Simard, President, Global Supply Chain and GLT
connecting both our strategic and financial disclosures to
member has management responsibility for environmental
climate change. This year we have updated the climate
sustainability, which includes climate change. He is
scenarios used to model transition and physical risks, which
responsible for governance and oversight of risks and
enabled us to extend the timeframe to model risks to 2050
opportunities and ensures there is an effective framework
where data was available and to broaden the scope to
in place to manage the risks and opportunities across include GSK’s supply chain. We will continue to monitor
each of our business units along with delivering on the
for emerging risks and new data to include in future
commitments made to a net zero, nature positive, healthier
assessments.
planet, with ambitious goals set for 2030 and 2045 across
our entire value chain.
Governance
Board Regis is supported by GSK’s Vice President (VP)
Sustainability who regularly reviews progress with him and
The Board considers climate-related matters throughout
who co-chairs the quarterly GSK Sustainability Council.
the year assessing the risk management processes in place
and challenging and endorsing the business plan and In 2022 GLT reviewed and discussed the mid-year
budgets, including overseeing major capital expenditures, performance for key environmental metrics, including
acquisitions and divestments. The Committee that climate-related ones, as part of reviewing GSK’s ESG
exercises oversight, provides guidance and reviews our Performance Rating.
ESG performance, including climate-related risks and
opportunities, and environmental performance against GSK Sustainability Council
targets is the CRC. The Sustainability Council, held quarterly, is attended by
senior leaders from across the business who play a key role
The Committee is supported by GLT and ROCC which
in delivering our commitment to a net zero, nature positive,
receive quarterly updates on environmental sustainability,
healthier planet, with ambitious goals set for 2030 and
including climate. Regular attendees include the CEO, and
2045 across our entire value chain. Members include
the President Global Supply Chain. See the CRC report on
leaders from procurement, finance, HR, Compliance, R&D
page 107 for further details of the Board architecture.
and manufacturing. The Council is co-chaired by the
In 2022 the CRC met four times. Key areas of focus were: President Global Supply Chain and the VP Sustainability
and supported by the global sustainability team who
– discussed climate-related issues on three separate
provides specialist expertise and advice to the business.
occasions with management, including: progress in
delivering against our climate ambitions; implications of In 2022 the Council:
the geopolitical landscape; key milestones and decisions
– received monthly performance dashboards covering key
required to achieve net zero targets
performance metrics and escalations of any potential
– reviewed mid-year performance for key environmental concerns or issues
metrics, including climate-related metrics, as part of
– held quarterly performance reviews across all areas of
reviewing GSK’s ESG Performance Rating
programme delivery and focused reviews of aspects of the
– approved GSK’s TCFD statement and public programme such as the implementation of the sustainable
environmental reporting and disclosures sourcing strategy, and recommendations for refreshing
In 2022 the Remuneration Committee, with the support of GSK’s Science Based Target commitments. The Council
the CRC, introduced a 10% measure into GSK’s long-term reviews include decisions on interventions or support
incentive plan opportunity for senior leaders based on key required to maintain progress towards 2030 targets
metrics related to GSK’s ESG performance. – reviewed insights on ESG trends and regulations
– approved the proposed Sustainability Data StrategyGSK Annual Report 2022
Risk management continued
In order to address the key priorities of the climate impact Supply chain emissions are a shared challenge across our
from GSK’s metered dose inhaler, a specific council was sector, and we are working with our peers on collaborative
established in 2022 and is attended by senior leaders from initiatives such as:
across the commercial, supply chain, regulatory and R&D
– the Activate programme to help Active Pharmaceutical
businesses aligned to GSK’s respiratory business. This
Ingredients (API) suppliers accelerate decarbonisation
council is chaired by the President Global Supply Chain and
initiatives
is the decision-making body for:
– the Energize programme to encourage the use of
– the programme to reduce the climate impact of metered renewable energy throughout the pharmaceutical
dose inhalers which contribute to approximately 50% of sector’s supply chain
GSK’s total GHG emissions by up to 90%, if the clinical
– the Manufacture 2030 initiative to encourage suppliers to
trials are successful
measure, manage and reduce their emissions
– advocacy and engagement with regulators and
In September 2022, we launched a Sustainable
policymakers
Procurement Programme which will require our suppliers to
– industrialisation strategy and progress disclose emissions and set carbon reduction targets aligned
Other business support with 1.5°C.
– the Sustainability Programme Steering Team
The use of our metered dose inhalers by patients for
co-ordinates the sustainability programme and
asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
associated workstreams and has oversight for monitoring
makes up around 50% of our total climate impact. We are
performance and progress of the enablers required to
investing in an R&D programme to reduce greenhouse gas
deliver the sustainability programme
emissions from this vital medicine that could potentially
– business unit sustainability councils meet quarterly to reduce the climate impact by up to 90%. If the clinical
review business unit performance and delivery against studies confirm that the new propellant could be an
the company sustainability ambition appropriate replacement, GSK will work on securing
– the Capital Allocations Board (CAB) which includes the approval from regulators in markets where the new product
CFO and Group Financial Controller reviews climate- could be made available to patients. This process can take
related capital expenditure as part of its annual planning time, but GSK is focused on meeting our commitment and
and capital allocation process we have made considerable investments towards achieving
this goal.
– the Finance Sustainability Network includes leaders from
across Finance, Sustainability and Procurement and The Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) accredited
focuses on key financial enablers to deliver the our climate targets, set prior to our demerger, as aligned to
sustainability programme the 1.5°C pathway. Our reduction pathway to 2030 is
significantly more ambitious and we are currently seeking
Strategy
reaccreditation from the SBTi for our targets as a fully
GSK's commitment to a net zero, nature positive, healthier focused biopharma company.
planet is embedded in GSK’s strategic long-term priorities,
We recognise that the global energy crisis as described
always considering the social, environmental and
on page 13 is disrupting and delaying the green
governance impacts of everything we do from laboratory
transition across the world. This may impact the pace of
to patient.
decarbonisation in the short term but any setback to the
There are many teams across GSK involved in this process, energy transition is expected to be time-limited.
to ensure that we make sound strategic decisions. The
In 2021, we developed a three-year plan to further embed
process for identifying and assessing climate-related risks
climate risk analysis across material areas of our business
and opportunities is set out under Risk Management as
and focused on risks impacting our direct operations. In
part of this TCFD section. To achieve our climate ambition,
2022, we updated the climate scenarios used to model
active holistic management of all climate-related risk
transition and physical risks, which enabled us to extend the
components is important. In addition to risk, we also
timeframe to model climate risks out to 2050 where data
continue to identify opportunities for GSK. These risks and
was available and to broaden the scope to include GSK’s
opportunities are described further in the table on pages
sites and suppliers across all geographies with a strategic
58 and 59.
revenue dependency aligned to other supply chain risk
In order to achieve reductions in emissions across our management processes.
operations by 2030, as part of our transition plans, we are
focusing on:
– maximising energy efficiency in our sites
– transitioning to 100% renewable electricity by 2025
– increasing the use of electric vehicles by our sales fleet
56GSK Annual Report 2022
57
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Risk management continued
We will continue to monitor for emerging risks and new Current trajectory scenario (SSP2 – RCP4.5)
data to include in future assessments, using external parties This scenario sets out to show to what extent announced
to provide horizon scanning insights on ESG trends and ambitions and targets are on the path to deliver the
regulations. emissions reductions required to achieve net zero emissions
by 20503. The temperature rise will exceed 2°C by 2100,
GSK prioritised scenario modelling of the following risks
with a more noticeable shift to happen in the latter half
in 2022:
of the century. A net zero pledge for emissions within the
– changes to regulations governing the supply of high scenario does not necessarily mean that CO emissions
2
global warming potential (GWP) substances by the EU, from the energy sector need to reach net zero, there is an
UK and US governments could restrict GSK’s ability to allocation for carbon offsetting within the pledges.
manufacture metered dose inhalers
Breach of planetary boundaries scenarios
– future regulatory policy responses to address climate
(SSP 5 – RCP 8.5)
change could lead to the imposition of carbon taxes by
This scenario is not aligned to any of the pledges laid out
countries where GSK manufactures and sources goods
within the Paris Agreement and is one where countries are
from third parties
unable to meet the United Nations Sustainable
– increasing levels of water stress that could lead to Development Goals. This scenario will have the most severe
interruptions to supply of water to GSK and third-party physical consequences for the planet. The temperature rise
supply sites will exceed 4°C by 2100, leading to high loss of biodiversity
– increasing frequency and impact of extreme weather and species extinction.
events that could cause disruption to GSK and third-party
Each risk and opportunity was analysed including how they
supplier sites
are being managed by GSK and the metrics and targets in
Climate scenarios place and the potential impact on our profit using a low
We reviewed and updated our climate scenarios, (<£100 million), medium (£100 million-£250 million) or high
developing four climate scenarios. We used three of these (>£250 million) threshold.
scenarios for modelling transition risks (Net Zero, Low
Due to the inherent uncertainty, and the nature of the
Carbon and Current Trajectory), and three scenarios for
risks across GSK strategy and business model, the climate-
modelling physical risks (Low Carbon, Current Trajectory,
related issues are monitored within these time horizons:
and Breach of Planetary Boundaries).
short term (less than 3 years); medium term (3-10 years)
Net zero scenario (SSP 1 – RCP 1.9) and long term (> 10 years).
This scenario sets out a narrow but achievable pathway for In comparison to the 2021 disclosure, we have extended the
the global energy sector to achieve net zero CO 2 emissions timeframe for climate risk assessments out to 2050 where
by 20501. It does not rely on emissions reduction from data is available to be able to differentiate between the
outside the energy sector to achieve its goal. The scenario potential long-term outcomes in different climate scenarios.
is consistent with limiting the global temperature rise to
1.5°C without a temperature overshoot. Net zero means Based on the different climate scenarios analysis
huge declines in the use of coal, oil and gas and a shift to performed and taking into consideration the climate risk
renewable energy sources. and opportunities identified across all geographies, as
described in the table below, we have tested the resilience
Low carbon scenario (SSP 1 – RCP 2.6) of GSK's business strategy and did not identify any material
In this scenario, all current net zero pledges are achieved impact to our business resilience.
in full and there are extensive efforts to realise near-term
emissions reductions; advanced economies reach net zero
emissions by 2050, China around 2060, and all other
countries by 2070 at the latest2. The scenario is consistent
with limiting the global temperature rise to below 2°C.
With some level of net negative emissions after 2070,
the temperature rise could be reduced to 1.5°C in 2100.
1 IEA Net Zero emissions scenario, https://www.iea.org/reports/global-
energy-and-climate-model/net-zero-emissions-by-2050-scenario-nze
last accessed 17 November 2022
2 IEA World Energy Outlook 2021, Chapter 2, p94, download report from
https://www.iea.org/reports/world-energy-outlook-2021/overview, last
accessed 17 November 2022
3 IEA Announced Pledges, https://www.iea.org/reports/global-energy-
and-climate-model/announced-pledges-scenario-aps last accessed
17 November 2022GSK Annual Report 2022
Risk management continued
Potential
Physical risk/ financial impact/
description GSK response Scenario timeframe Metrics Targets
The risk from We have identified three water basins in Current Medium Sites that Achieve
increasing levels of water-stressed areas in Algeria, India and trajectory (£100m- have good water
water stress leading Pakistan where we have manufacturing sites, £250)m/ achieved stewardship
to interruptions to and where we aim to be water neutral. Long term water at 100% of
supply of water to (> 10 years) stewardship our sites by
At our manufacturing facility in Nashik, India
GSK sites and 2025
we have built plants for rainwater harvesting. Total
third-party supply
supplied Reduce
sites. The climate scenario analysis has identified a Breach of Low
water overall water
number of sites and supplier sites located in planetary (< £100m)/
GSK and its third- use in our
water basins that could become water boundaries long term
party suppliers use operations
stressed by 2040 which have been added to a (> 10 years)
freshwater as the by 20% by
watch list. We will monitor changes to the risk
main source of water 2030
levels and update our site water risk
to manufacture
assessments appropriately.
medicines and
vaccines. If water
availability was
restricted at a factory,
then production
operations would be
interrupted.
Increasing frequency The climate scenario modelling indicated that Low Business Where
of extreme weather of the seven physical perils, flood from rainfall carbon continuity climate-
events causing presents the highest likelihood of an acute scenario plans are related risks
disruption to GSK and interruption. However, the risk of flooding from reviewed to business
third-party supplier rainfall and from the other extreme weather annually continuity
sites. events is expected to remain very low. are identified,
Extreme weather We have performed risk assessments for our Current Low we have
events from any one manufacturing and other operations and trajectory (< £100m)/ taken action
of precipitation have business continuity plans in place which scenario Long term t to h em ri it si kgate
(rainfall), flood from are reviewed annually to respond to the (> 10 years)
precipitation, tidal impacts of extreme weather events including
flood, extreme wind, adopting appropriate mitigation plans.
wildfire, extreme heat GSK has a well established loss prevention Breach of
or extreme cold can and risk engineering programme to identify a planetary
result in short-term range of risks that could impact our sites and boundaries
interruptions to where flood risks exist, we have taken action scenario
manufacturing at
to mitigate the risk.
GSK or supplier sites.
Regulations We are investing in an R&D programme to Current High On/off track 80%
governing the use of reduce greenhouse gas emissions from trajectory (> £250m)/ against and 90%
high global warming metered dose inhalers used to treat asthma scenario medium delivery of reduction
potential (GWP) and COPD and have made good progress (3-10 years) key in carbon
substances are being towards reformulating an alternative gas that milestones emissions
updated in the EU could potentially reduce the climate impact on the R&D (all scopes)
and UK and were by up to 90%, if the clinical trials are programme by 2030
updated recently in successful. plan and 2045,
the US. respectively
We already have a portfolio of Dry Powder
This could lead to Inhaler products that do not use propellants
increasing costs and that are not impacted by this risk.
restrict the ability to
manufacture our
metered dose inhaler
(MDI) products that
use a high GWP
propellant (HFA134a).
58GSK Annual Report 2022
59
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Risk management continued
Potential
Transitional risk/ financial impact/
description GSK response Scenario timeframe Metrics Targets
Future regulatory GSK is managing this risk by reducing Scope 1 Net zero Medium Scope 1 & 80%
policy responses and 2 emissions through the following: scenario (£100-250m) 2 carbon and 90%
to address climate – GSK’s energy efficiency programme in both emissions reduction
change could lead – Transitioning to 100% renewable electricity by medium (3-10 Scope 3 in carbon
to the imposition of 2025 years) and carbon emissions
carbon taxes by long term (all scopes)
– Investigating options for renewable heat emissions
countries where GSK (> 10 years) by 2030
technology
manufactures and and 2045,
– Transitioning sales fleet to electric vehicles by 2030
source goods from respectively
– Using shadow carbon pricing on capital Low Medium
third parties.
investments of US$ 100 per tonne of GHG carbon (£100-250m)
emissions scenario in the medium
GSK is managing this risk by reducing Scope 3 (3-10 year)
emissions through the following: term falling to
– R&D programmes to reduce greenhouse gas low (< £100m)
emissions from metered dose inhalers in the long
term (> 10
– The new supply chain programme requiring our
years)
suppliers to take action on carbon, set targets
aligned with 1.5°C and switch to renewable power
and heat Current Low (< £100)/
– Collaborating with sector peers in the Energize trajectory in the medium
and Activate programmes and the Manufacture scenario (3-10 years)
2030 initiative and long term
– Joining the Sustainable Markets Initiative Health (> 10 years)
Systems Task Force to reduce healthcare supply
chain emissions
Potential
profit impact/
Opportunities GSK response Scenario timeframe Metrics Targets
At COP26 in We are reducing our own Scope 1 & 2 carbon Net zero Scope 1 & 80%
November 2021, emissions which in turn reduces the Scope 3 scenario 2 and 3 and 90%
more than 50 footprint of our customers and suppliers; for carbon reduction
countries around the example, at our site in Irvine in Scotland, a closed emissions in carbon
world committed to loop heat system has helped to drive reductions in emissions Total
provide low carbon operating costs, and onsite renewables and Low waste and (all scopes)
healthcare systems. biogas will provide 85% of its energy. carbon Low materials by 2030
This could lead to We have an Eco-design programme to reduce the scenario < £100m/ and 2045,
respectively
increasing demand impacts of all our products and packaging. Long
for low carbon We are investing in an R&D programme to reduce (> 10 years) Zero
medicines and operational
greenhouse gas emissions from metered dose
vaccines. inhalers used to treat asthma and COPD and have Current waste
made good progress towards reformulating an trajectory
alternative gas that could potentially reduce the scenario
climate impact by up to 90% if the clinical trials are
successful.
We have a portfolio of dry powder inhaler products
that have low carbon footprints.
There have been In September 2022, GSK and Microsoft announced Current Long Not Not
several reports an innovative collaboration with the Centre for trajectory (> 10 years) applicable applicable
exploring the impact Health and Disease Studies (CHDS) Nepal. The scenario
of climate change and pilot project, which will leverage Microsoft’s
health showing that Premonition systems and GSK’s expertise in health
climate change and disease, will investigate how AI and robotics
affects water- and can support local community response to vector-
vector-borne diseases. borne diseases and climate change.
This could lead to an In July 2022, GSK’s annual Palio conference
increasing demand for explored the role of vaccines in finding solutions for
new medicines and global healthcare to protect people and the planet.
vaccines.GSK Annual Report 2022
Risk management continued
Risk management Physical risks are typically identified at the asset or project
level and are managed depending on the level of risk
As described in the Risk management section on page 51,
assessed. Increasing levels of water stress is a physical risk
GSK’s risk management policies are designed to address all
and could reduce the availability of water for our
types of risks, including the Group principal risks and
operations in affected locations. This is an important risk as
uncertainties and our climate risk assessment follows the
GSK uses freshwater as the main source of water to
same policy and framework.
manufacture medicines and vaccines. If water availability
The nature of the risks and opportunities from climate was restricted at a factory, then production operations
change depends not only on the physical aspects of could be interrupted. We perform water stewardship risk
climate change, but also regulatory and commercial assessments for our manufacturing sites and update them
changes in the markets in which GSK operates, including every three years.
pressures to reduce the climate impact of GSK’s metered
Transition risks are typically identified at enterprise level
dose inhaler medicines.
and at market level. Currently the transitions risks which are
In terms of GSK climate risk management policies, a a priority for GSK are regulatory and commercial risks which
specific and dedicated environmental sustainability risk we manage through our investment decisions and through
management plan was put in place in 2020. The risk our sustainability transformation programme. From a legal
management plan covers expectations that GSK is point of view, we consider risks which may arise from
addressing its impact on the environment, and that the product claims based on environmental performance. To
environment has increasing impacts on operational manage this risk, we use external accreditation processes
resilience such as access to energy, water and the natural and organisations to review the evidence used to support
resources used in products, along with any anticipated cost environmental claims for our products criteria. From a
increases from regulatory changes or environmental taxes. technological point of view, GSK has developed tools to
Policy developments at global and national level are incorporate eco-design principles into the design and
monitored for their potential impact. For example, as a development of new products and to identify opportunities
result of the UN Montreal Protocol 2016 Kigali amendment to reduce the environmental impacts of existing products.
that mandates a global phase down of the use of high Our communications and governance affairs team
global warming potential hydrofluoroalkane gases, manages corporate reputation through identification and
governments are introducing or proposing to introduce monitoring of climate-related issues and then undertake
quota restrictions to HFA134a that is used by GSK to both proactive and reactive engagement with relevant
manufacture metered dose inhalers used to treat asthma stakeholder groups to communicate GSK’s position.
and COPD. GSK has been part of an industry consultation
On an annual basis a cross-functional team from GSK’s
with the UK Department for Environment, Food & Rural
business units, sustainability team and finance perform
Affairs as the UK government develops its UK specific
a review of risks from climate change to identify any new
regulations on the control of F-gases.
or emerging risks and to determine if an updated risk
GSK has policies and procedures in place to identify risks assessment is required for any existing risks. Climate-related
from climate change when things change, for example to risks are considered from a strategic and operational
assess the climate impact of merger and acquisition perspective to ensure we maintain a comprehensive view of
activity, or the construction of new buildings, or major the different types of climate risks we face and the different
capital expenditure. Furthermore, an internal control time horizons in which they may affect GSK. This review is
framework has been established for environmental approved by the VP Sustainability and Finance VPs from
sustainability, including the appointment of dedicated each of GSK’s business units.
senior leaders for environmental sustainability to ensure
The identified risks are assessed by a climate risk working
that governance processes are in place and effective.
group who consider the likelihood and financial impact of
For the purposes of our TCFD disclosures we have made each risk on GSK under different climate scenarios. The
use of the TCFD distinction between “physical” and impact assessments are approved by the President, Global
“transition” climate-related risk. Supply Chain who has company level responsibility for
Environmental Sustainability, the VP Sustainability and
Risks which may be identified include potential effects on
Finance VPs from each of GSK’s business units. The results
operations at asset level, performance at business level and
are shared with Business Unit Risk Management Control
developments at regional level from extreme weather or the
Boards (RMCB) and the Finance RMCB to ensure risks are
transition to a lower carbon economy.
both contextualised with other business risks and managed
appropriately. This allows management to take a holistic
view and optimise risk mitigation responses, to ensure that
responses to climate-related risks are properly integrated
into the relevant businesses' and functions' activities.
60GSK Annual Report 2022
61
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Risk management continued
Metrics and targets
GSK commits to a net zero, nature positive, healthier planet, water, waste annually in our ESG Performance Report
with ambitious goals set for 2030 and 2045 across our entire for detailed performance data and other environmental KPI
value chain. GSK reports progress in reducing Scope 1 & 2 and in our public responses to the CDP Climate, Water and
carbon emissions, Scope 3 carbon emissions1, energy use, Forest questionnaires.
a. Disclose the GSK has considered the key metrics following the guidance of Tables A1.1 and A1.2 as well as the metrics
metrics used by consistent with cross-industry, climate-related metrics as described in TCFD. Based on that, our strategic
the organisation to metrics are:
assess climate risks – Scope 1 & 2 emissions (market-based and location-based approach), described in the table below
and opportunities – Scope 3 emissions, described in the table below
in line with its
– % renewably sourced electricity, described in the table below
strategy and risk
– Total supplied water, described in the table below
management
– Total waste and materials, described in the table below
process
– ESG composite metric, as part of our senior leaders‘ remuneration policy see page 148
– Sites that have achieved water stewardship, described in the table below
Our ESG Performance Report includes additional metrics used to support the strategic metrics listed above.
b. D isclose Scope 1, 2 In Energy and carbon emissions, see table below
and if applicable – Scope 1 emissions from energy
Scope 3 GHG – Scope 1 from other sources
emissions and
– Scope 2 emissions (market-based)
related risks
– Scope 2 emissions (location-based)
– Scope 3 emissions metrics
– Scope 1 & 2 emissions from intensity metrics
Prioritised physical and transition risks are included in the Strategy Section on page 56.
c. Describe the targets Our targets (measured against a 2020 baseline where applicable) are:
used by the – 80% reduction in carbon emissions and investment in nature-based solutions for the remaining 20% of
organisation to our footprint by 2030 (all scopes)
manage climate- – 100% renewable electricity by 2025 (Scope 2)
related risks and
– Net zero emissions across our full value chain by 2045 (all scopes)
opportunities
– Achieve good water stewardship at 100% of our sites by 2025
and performance
– Reduce overall water use in our operations by 20% in 2030 against targets
– Zero operational waste by 2030.
– Be water neutral in our own operations and at key suppliers in water-stressed regions by 2030
The performance against our targets can be found on pages 45 and 46.1
1 See Basis of Reporting 2022 in the ESG resources section of GSK.com
(https://www.gsk.com/en-gb/responsibility/esg-resources/) for detailed
methodologies for measuring and reporting all GSK environmental KPIsGSK Annual Report 2022
Risk management continued
Metrics data
Carbon emissions1,2
Carbon emissions ‘000 tonnes CO2e 2022 2021 2020
Scope 1 emissions (from energy) 320 333 355
Scope 1 emissions (other3) 306 300 358
Scope 2 emissions (market-based) 88 131 169
Scope 2 emissions (location-based) 265 285 309
Scope 3 emissions4 – 8,624 9,949
UK Scope 1 & 2 emissions 111 126 138
Other metrics 2022 2021 2020
Scope 1 and 2 emissions from energy/sales revenue (tonnes COe/£m) 13.9 18.8 21.5
2
Scope 1 and 2 emissions from energy/FTE (tonnes COe/FTE) 5.9 6.5 7.2
2
Total energy used (GWh) 2,759 2,871 3,085
UK energy used (GWh) 735 807 917
% renewably sourced electricity 73% 63% 46%
Total supplied water million m3 7.5 7.9 9.7
Total waste and materials ‘000 metric tonne 57.2 63.1 63.0
% sites that have achieved water stewardship 100% 100% 89%
1 All data reported excludes our previous Consumer Healthcare business unless otherwise specified
2 Carbon emissions are calculated according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (revised edition). GSK uses
market-based Scope 2 emissions for reporting purposes and reports Scope 3 emissions across all 15 categories in our ESG Performance Report. We ask
external assurance providers, Deloitte, to provide limited assurance to ISAE 3000 for energy, Scope 1, 2 and selected Scope 3 carbon emission data, water
and wastewater data. Methodologies for reporting and measurements are provided in the Basis of Reporting 2022 in the ESG resources section of gsk.com
(https://www.gsk.com/en-gb/responsibility/esg-resources/)
3 ‘Other’ refers to emissions from sales force vehicles, propellant emissions released during manufacture of inhalers (the majority of propellant emissions,
released during patient use, are included in Scope 3 carbon emissions), on-site waste, or wastewater treatment and refrigerant gas losses
4 We collect and publish Scope 3 data across 15 categories. The most recent Scope 3 data available is for 2021 as the process of compiling the 2022 data is
not yet complete, except for 2022 Scope 3 emissions from patient use of inhalers which are disclosed in the ESG Performance Report. We will publish this
data once it becomes available and it will be included in the 2023 ESG Performance Report
Nature-related financial disclosure
At GSK we are committed to playing our part to minimise Strategy
our impact and dependencies on nature, as well as helping
We are committed to have a net positive impact on
to protect and restore nature. We have performed a full
nature by 2030 by reducing our environmental impacts
assessment of our impacts on nature across our value chain
across water, waste and materials biodiversity and by
and are setting targets to reduce these pressures in line
investing in nature protection and restoration. In 2022,
with evolving guidance from Science Based Targets for
we conducted an assessment of GSK’s nature-related risks
Nature (SBTN). In line with our commitment to nature
and opportunities, in line with the latest TNFD guidance
and building on the achievements of our climate-related
from November 2022. By following the latest TNFD LEAP
financial disclosures, GSK is currently piloting the
(Locate, Evaluate, Assess and Prepare) methodology, we
recommendations of the Taskforce on Nature-related
have been able to better understand the magnitude of
Financial Disclosures (TNFD) ahead of the launch of the
GSK’s physical and transitional risks across each Nature
TNFD's final framework expected in September 2023.
pressure. We will continue to refine our assessment,
As part of the pilot, we are working to understand how following the methodology from TNFD, and will look to
we can utilise the TNFD guidelines to report the risks that report against it once the final version is available.
our impacts and dependencies on nature present to our
Additionally, GSK is one of the first companies to conduct
business. We are making an initial disclosure with a
a materiality assessment for its full value chain, in line with
particular focus on strategy, metrics and targets. Some
the SBTN methodology, to better understand our impacts
early findings from the results of our in-progress analysis
and dependencies.
are included below.
62GSK Annual Report 2022
63
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Risk management continued
This process has clearly indicated that to achieve Net Our targets will continue to evolve as we incorporate
Nature Positive by 2030 requires us to build a portfolio the findings of our materiality assessment and progress
of pressure-specific initiatives that drive action in targeted towards achieving Net Nature Positive by 2030. To support
landscapes and regions of impact. As part of our progress, we actively engage with external partners
commitment, we acknowledge that collaboration across including the SBTN and World Business Council for
different stakeholders will continue to be an imperative Sustainable Development to ensure targets and metrics
in this multi-year journey. Ultimately, the direction provided are meaningful and robust.
by the SBTN technical guidance will help shape our
Addressing our impacts on the natural world and
strategy to ensure we minimise our impacts and
understanding the impacts of the changing state of nature
dependencies on nature globally.
globally on GSK is no small undertaking, but we are proud
to be pioneering the use of nature-related financial
Metrics and targets
disclosures in our industry. Ultimately, delivering positive
To address GSK’s pressures on Nature, we have existing outcomes for the environment is fundamental to delivering
targets across water, waste, materials and biodiversity positive outcomes on human health. At GSK we are excited
(see page 46). to continue on this path, uniting science, technology and
talent to get ahead of disease together.
Non-financial information statement
The following aligns to the non-financial reporting requirements contained in sections 414CA and 414CB of the Companies
Act 2006.
Description of the business model Human rights Policy, due diligence and outcomes
Business model 08 Human rights 48 Risk management 51
Working with third parties 48 Principal risks and uncertainties 285
Social matters Data and engagement 49 Viability statement 64
Access 43 Audit & Risk Committee report 124
Global health and health security 44 Anti-bribery and corruption
Ethical standards 48 Non-financial key performance
Employees Reporting and investigating indicators
Our culture and people 10 concerns 48 2022 performance and key
Employee engagement 11 performance indicators 03
Diversity, equity and inclusion 47 Environmental matters
Wellbeing and development 11 Environment 45 Our policies
Gender pay gap 47 Climate-related financial All of our public policies, codes and
Ethical standards 48 disclosures 55 standards are available on gsk.com
Board diversity 122 Nature-related financial disclosure 62
Employees by gender
Male Female Total
Board 8 3 11
Management* 8,318 8,201 16,519
All employees 36,782 32,618 69,400
* Senior managers as defined in the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ Report) Regulations 2013GSK Annual Report 2022
Risk management continued
Viability statement
In accordance with provision 31 of the 2018 revision of the The downside scenarios consider GSK’s cash flows,
Code, GSK has assessed the prospects of the Group over a sustainability of dividends, funding strategy, insurance
longer period than the 12 months required by the ‘Going provision and recovery as well as other key financial ratios
Concern’ provision. The Directors confirm that they have a over the period. These metrics have been subject to
reasonable expectation that GSK will continue to operate sensitivity analysis, which involves flexing a number of the
and meet its liabilities, as they fall due, over the next three main assumptions underlying the forecasts both individually
years. The Directors’ assessment has been made with and in combination, along with mitigating actions that
reference to GSK’s current position and prospects, our could realistically be taken to avoid or reduce the impact or
strategy, the Board’s risk appetite and GSK’s principal risks occurrence of the underlying risk.
and how these are managed, as detailed on pages 51 to 54
The following hypothetical downside scenarios have been
in the Strategic report.
evaluated:
The Board reviews our internal controls and risk
Scenario 1: Business performance risks. These include key
management policies and approves our governance
performance risks, including lower sales from new products,
structure and code of conduct. It also appraises and
greater adverse impact from generic competition and other
approves major financing, investment and licensing
competitive launches to other GSK products, as well as
decisions, and evaluates and monitors the performance
possible supply and manufacturing challenges.
and prospects of GSK as a whole. The focus is largely on
improving our long-term financial performance through Scenario 2: External and macroeconomic risks. This scenario
delivery of our company’s business strategies and aligned reflects incremental risks to the business driven by outside
priorities. factors, such as more intense competition, increased pricing
pressure in both the US and Europe as well as the potential
The Board reviews GSK’s strategy and makes significant
impact of material negative changes in the macro-
capital investment decisions over a long-term time horizon,
economic and healthcare environment.
based on a multi-year assessment of return on capital, the
performance of the company, and the market opportunities Scenario 3: Principal risks. This scenario includes a severe
in medicines and vaccines. This approach is aligned to assessment of the potential loss impact from the principal
GSK’s model of achieving balanced growth by investing in risks related to patient safety, product quality, supply chain
high quality, innovative products for patients and continuity and environmental harm as well as anti-bribery
healthcare providers. However, since many internal and and corruption and any consequent regulatory actions,
external parameters become increasingly unpredictable fines or significant litigation, all of which could
over longer time horizons, GSK focuses its detailed, bottom- fundamentally threaten our operations. These risks are
up Plan on a three-year cycle. The Plan is reviewed at least managed through mitigating activities described on pages
annually by the Directors, who approve business forecasts 285 to 295.
showing expected financial impact. The Directors believe
Scenario 4: Put option exercise. This scenario evaluates the
that a three-year assessment period for the Viability
additional funding requirements assuming the earliest
statement is most appropriate as it aligns with the Group’s
potential exercise of the outstanding put option held by our
well established business planning processes that balance
partner in the HIV business.
the long-term nature of investments in medicines and
vaccines with an assessment of the period over which The three-year review also makes certain assumptions
analysis of near-term business performance is realistically about the normal level of capital recycling likely to occur
visible. and considers whether additional financing facilities will be
required and the respective level of funding flexibility and
The Plan has been stress tested in a series of robust
headroom.
operational and principal risk downside scenarios as part
of the Board’s review on risk. The Plan assumes the next The results of this stress testing show that certain
several years to be challenging for the healthcare industry combinations of these hypothetical scenarios could
with continued pressure on pricing of pharmaceuticals. GSK increase funding demands on GSK and require mitigating
assumes no premature loss of exclusivity for key products changes to the Group’s funding strategy. However, in light of
over the period and for all anticipated launches to proceed the liquidity available to the Group and based on this
as planned. Despite the ongoing recovery of healthcare analysis, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that,
systems from the impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic, even under these most severe stress tests, the Group will be
uncertain economic conditions prevail across many markets able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they
in which GSK operates. fall due over the three-year period of assessment.
64GSK Annual Report 2022
Group financial
review
In this section
Summary full year results 66
Financial performance 68
Reporting framework 69
Adjusting items 81
Cash generation and conversion 86
Financial position and resources 87
Approach to tax 92
Treasury policies 93
Critical accounting policies 94
65GSK Annual Report 2022
Group financial review
Summary full year results
Full year Growth Growth Full year Full year
2022 AER CER 2021(1) 2020(1)
£m % % £m £m
Turnover 29,324 19 13 24,696 24,354
Total continuing operating profit(1) 6,433 48 31 4,357 5,979
Total EPS(1) 371.4p >100 >100 109.6p 144.4p
Total continuing EPS(1) 110.8p 34 18 82.9p 122.4p
Total discontinued EPS(1) 260.6p >100 >100 26.7p 22.0p
Adjusted operating profit(1) 8,151 26 14 6,493 6,656
Adjusted EPS(1) 139.7p 27 15 110.3p 114.4p
Cash generated from operations attributable to continuing operations(1) 7,944 10 7,249 7,674
Free cash flow 3,348 1 3,301 3,683
(1) T he amounts presented above for continuing operations and Adjusted results excludes the Consumer Healthcare business discontinued operation. The
amounts presented for discontinued EPS are for the demerger of the Consumer Healthcare business. The presentation of continuing and discontinued
operations under IFRS 5 are set out on page 192. The 2021 and 2020 comparative results have been restated on a consistent basis from those previously
published to reflect the demerger of the Consumer Healthcare business (see page 238) and the impact of the Share Consolidation implemented on 18 July
2022 (see page 233).
Total Turnover Total Continuing Operating Profit
Total turnover in 2022 was £29,324 million, up 19% at AER, Total operating profit from continuing operations was £6,433
13% at CER, reflecting strong performance in all three product million compared with £4,357 million in 2021.
groups. Commercial Operations turnover, excluding COVID-19
This included the £0.9 billion upfront income received from the
solution sales, grew 16% at AER, 10% at CER. Specialty
settlement with Gilead Sciences, Inc. (Gilead), increased profits
Medicines included £2,309 million sales of Xevudy, and
on turnover growth of 13% at CER and fair value gains on
double-digit growth across all therapy areas. Vaccines growth
investments, partly offset by higher remeasurement charges
reflected strong Shingrix and Meningitis performance, partially
for contingent consideration liabilities.
offset by pandemic adjuvant sales in 2021. General Medicines
reflected the recovery of the antibiotics market and the strong
Total continuing Adjusted operating profit
performance of Trelegy in respiratory across all regions.
Adjusted operating profit was £8,151 million, 26% higher at AER
and 14% at CER than 2021. The Adjusted operating margin of
Specialty Medicines
27.8% was 1.5 percentage points higher at AER and 0.3
Specialty Medicines sales were £11,269 million, up 37% at AER,
percentage points higher at CER compared to 2021. This
29% at CER, driven by consistent double-digit growth in all
primarily reflected the impact from low margin COVID-19
therapy areas. Specialty Medicines, excluding sales of Xevudy,
solutions sales (Xevudy). This was offset by operating leverage
were £8,960 million up 23% at AER, 15% at CER.
from strong sales growth, mix benefit, lower inventory
adjustments and write-offs and higher royalty income.
Vaccines
Vaccines turnover was £7,937 million, up 17% at AER, 11% at
Total Earnings per Share
CER in total, and up 24% at AER, 17% at CER excluding
Total EPS was 371.4p compared with 109.6p in 2021. The
pandemic adjuvant sales. The performance reflected a
increase primarily reflected the profit after taxation for
favourable comparator, which was impacted by COVID-19
discontinued operations recognised on the Consumer
related disruptions in several markets primarily in H1 2021,
Healthcare business demerger, upfront income received from
and strong commercial execution of Shingrix, particularly in
the settlement with Gilead, increased profits and fair value
the US and Europe.
gains on investments, partly offset by higher remeasurement
General Medicines charges for contingent consideration liabilities and an
General Medicines sales in the year were £10,118 million, up 5% unfavourable comparison due to a credit of £397 million to
at AER, 1% at CER, with the impact of generic competition in Taxation in 2021.
US, Europe and Japan offset by Trelegy growth in respiratory
and the post-pandemic rebound of the antibiotic market since
H2 2021, in Other General Medicines.
6667
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
GSK Annual Report 2022
Group financial review continued
Total continuing Earnings per Share Cash generated from operations attributable to
Total EPS from continuing operations was 110.8p compared continuing operations
with 82.9p in 2021. This primarily reflected the upfront income Cash generated from operations attributable to continuing
received from the settlement with Gilead, increased profits operations for the year was £7,944 million (2021: £7,249 million).
from turnover growth and fair value gains on investments, The increase primarily reflected a significant increase in
partly offset by higher remeasurement charges for contingent operating profit, favourable exchange impact and favourable
consideration liabilities and an unfavourable comparison due timing of collections, partly offset by unfavourable timing of
to a credit of £430 million to Taxation in 2021. profit share payments for Xevudy sales, increased cash
contributions to the UK defined benefit pension schemes,
Total discontinued Earnings per Share increased contingent consideration payments and a higher
EPS from discontinued operations was 260.6p, compared with increase in inventory.
26.7p in 2021. The increase primarily reflected the gain arising
on the demerger of Consumer Healthcare recognised in Profit Free cash flow
after taxation for discontinued operations. Free cash inflow from continuing operations was £3,348 million
for 2022 (2021: £3,301 million). The increase primarily reflected
Adjusted Earnings per Share a significant increase in operating profit, favourable exchange,
Adjusted EPS was 139.7p compared with 110.3p in 2021. reduced purchases of intangible assets and favourable timing
Operating leverage from strong sales growth, beneficial mix of collections. This was partly offset by unfavourable timing of
and lower inventory adjustments and write-offs, higher royalty profit share payments for Xevudy sales, increased cash
income and a lower effective tax rate was partly offset by contributions to pensions, increased contingent consideration
increased investment behind launches, higher supply chain, payments, higher tax payments, lower proceeds from
freight and distribution costs and higher non-controlling disposals, higher capital expenditure and a higher increase
interests. in inventory.GSK Annual Report 2022
Group financial review continued
Financial performance
The Total results of the Group are set out below.
2022 2021(1) Growth
% of % of
£m turnover £m turnover £% CER%
Turnover 29,324 100 24,696 100 19 13
Cost of sales (9,554) (32.6) (8,163) (33.1) 17 16
Gross profit 19,770 67.4 16,533 66.9 20 12
Selling, general and administration (8,372) (28.6) (7,070) (28.6) 18 13
Research and development (5,488) (18.7) (5,019) (20.3) 9 4
Royalty income 758 2.6 417 1.7 82 81
Other operating (expenses)/income (235) (504)
Operating profit 6,433 21.9 4,357 17.6 48 31
Net finance costs (803) (755)
Loss on disposal of interest in associates – (36)
Share of after-tax (losses)/profits of associates and joint ventures (2) 33
Profit before taxation 5,628 3,599 56 37
Taxation (707) (83)
Profit after taxation from continuing operations for the year 4,921 3,516 40 23
Profit after taxation from discontinued operations and other 3,049 1,580
gains from the demerger
Remeasurement of discontinued operations distributed to 7,651 –
shareholders on demerger
Profit after taxation from discontinued operations 10,700 1,580 >100 >100
Total profit after taxation for the year 15,621 5,096 >100 >100
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests from continuing operations 460 200
Profit attributable to shareholders from continuing operations 4,461 3,316
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests from discontinued
operations 205 511
Profit attributable to shareholders from discontinued operations 10,495 1,069
15,621 5,096 >100 >100
Total profit attributable to non-controlling interests 665 711
Total profit attributable to shareholders 14,956 4,385
15,621 5,096 >100 >100
Earnings per share from continuing operations (p) 110.8p 82.9p 34 18
Earnings per share from discontinued operations (p) 260.6p 26.7p >100 >100
Total earnings per share (p) 371.4p 109.6p >100 >100
Earnings per ADS from continuing operations (US$) 2.75 2.29
Earnings per ADS from discontinued operations (US$) 6.46 0.73
Total earnings per ADS (US$) 9.21 3.02
The Adjusted results for the Group are set out below. Reconciliations between Total results and Adjusted results for 2022 and 2021
are set out on pages 81 to 82.
2022 2021(1) Growth
% of % of
£m turnover £m turnover £% CER%
Turnover 29,324 100 24,696 100 19 13
Cost of sales (8,741) (29.8) (7,346) (29.7) 19 18
Selling, general and administration (8,128) (27.7) (6,749) (27.3) 20 15
Research and development (5,062) (17.3) (4,525) (18.3) 12 6
Royalty income 758 2.6 417 1.6 82 81
Adjusted operating profit 8,151 27.8 6,493 26.3 26 14
Adjusted profit attributable to shareholders 5,625 4,415 27 15
Adjusted profit attributable to non-controlling interest 595 441
Adjusted profit after tax 6,220 4,856 28 16
Adjusted earnings per share (p) 139.7p 110.3p 27 15
(1) T he 2021 comparative results have been restated on a consistent basis from those previously published to reflect the demerger of the Consumer Healthcare
business (see page 238) and the impact of the Share Consolidation implemented on 18 July 2022 (see page 233).
6869
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
GSK Annual Report 2022
Group financial review continued
Reporting framework
Total and Adjusted results Costs for all other ordinary course smaller scale restructuring
and legal charges and expenses are retained within both Total The Group financial review discusses the operating and
and Adjusted results.
financial performance of the Group, its cash flows and financial
position and our resources. The results for each year are As Adjusted results include the benefits of Major restructuring
compared primarily with the results of the preceding year. programmes but exclude significant costs (such as
amortisation of intangible assets except for computer software
Total results and capitalised development costs, significant legal, major
Total reported results represent the Group’s overall restructuring and transaction items), they should not be
performance. regarded as a complete picture of the Group’s financial
GSK also uses a number of adjusted, non-IFRS, measures to performance, which is presented in its Total results. The
report the performance of its business. Adjusted results and exclusion of other Adjusting items may result in Adjusted
other non-IFRS measures may be considered in addition to, earnings being materially higher or lower than Total earnings.
but not as a substitute for or superior to, information presented In particular, when significant impairments, restructuring
in accordance with IFRS. Adjusted results are defined below charges and legal costs are excluded, Adjusted earnings will
and other non-IFRS measures are defined on page 70. be higher than Total earnings.
GSK believes that Adjusted results, when considered together GSK is undertaking a number of Major restructuring
with Total results, provide investors, analysts and other programmes in response to significant changes in the Group’s
stakeholders with helpful complementary information to trading environment or overall strategy, or following material
understand better the financial performance and position of acquisitions. Costs, both cash and non-cash, of these
the Group from period to period, and allow the Group’s programmes are provided for as individual elements
performance to be more easily compared against the majority are approved and meet the accounting recognition criteria.
of its peer companies. These measures are also used by As a result, charges may be incurred over a number of years
management for planning and reporting purposes. They may following the initiation of a Major restructuring programme.
not be directly comparable with similarly described measures Significant legal charges and expenses are those arising from
used by other companies. the settlement of litigation or government investigations that
GSK encourages investors and analysts not to rely on any are not in the normal course and are materially larger than
single financial measure but to review GSK’s Annual Reports, more regularly occurring individual matters. They also include
including the financial statements and notes, in their entirety. certain major legacy matters.
Reconciliations between Total and Adjusted results, providing
Adjusted results further information on the key Adjusting items for 2022, 2021
Adjusted results exclude the profits from discontinued and 2020, are set out on pages 81 to 83.
operations from the Consumer Healthcare business (see
GSK provides earnings guidance to the investor community on
details on page 238) and the following items in relation to our
the basis of Adjusted results. This is in line with peer companies
continuing operations from Total results, together with the tax
and expectations of the investor community, supporting easier
effects of all of these items:
comparison of the Group’s performance with its peers. GSK is
– amortisation of intangible assets (excluding computer software not able to give guidance for Total results as it cannot reliably
and capitalised development costs) forecast certain material elements of the Total results,
– impairment of intangible assets (excluding computer particularly the future fair value movements on contingent
software) and goodwill consideration and put options that can and have given rise to
significant adjustments driven by external factors such as
– Major restructuring costs, which include impairments of
currency and other movements in capital markets.
tangible assets and computer software, (under specific
Board approved programmes that are structural, of a
significant scale and where the costs of individual or related
projects exceed £25 million) including integration costs
following material acquisitions
– transaction-related accounting or other adjustments related
to significant acquisitions
– proceeds and costs of disposals of associates, products
and businesses; significant settlement income; significant
legal charges (net of insurance recoveries) and expenses on
the settlement of litigation and government investigations;
other operating income other than royalty income, and other
itemsGSK Annual Report 2022
Group financial review continued
Reporting framework continued
Historical record of Adjusting items
The reconciliations between Total and Adjusted operating profit from continuing operations over the last three years(1) can be
summarised as follows:
2022 2021(2) 2020(2)
£m £m £m
Total operating profit from continuing operations 6,433 4,357 5,979
Intangible amortisation 739 761 724
Intangible impairment 296 347 200
Major restructuring 321 424 1,178
Transaction-related items 1,750 1,143 1,237
Divestments, significant legal and other items (1,388) (539) (2,662)
Adjusted results 8,151 6,493 6,656
The analysis of the impact of transaction-related items on operating profit for each of the last three years is as follows:
2022 2021(2) 2020(2)
£m £m £m
Contingent consideration on former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare JV (including Shionogi preferential dividends) 1,431 1,026 1,114
ViiV Healthcare put options and Pfizer preferential dividends 85 48 (52)
Contingent consideration on former Novartis Vaccines business 193 27 172
Contingent consideration on acquisition of Affinivax 17 – –
Other adjustments 24 42 3
Transaction-related items 1,750 1,143 1,237
(1) T hree year financial data is presented reflecting the restated results following the demerger of Consumer Healthcare business. The financial results of 2019
and 2018 are not restated and are not presented.
(2) T he 2021 and 2020 comparative results have been restated on a consistent basis from those previously published to reflect the demerger of the Consumer
Healthcare business (see page 238).
Full reconciliations between Total and Adjusted results for 2020–2022 including continuing and discontinued operations are set
out on pages 81 to 83. Further explanations on the Adjusting items for 2022 are reported on pages 84 to 85.
Other non-IFRS measures Return on capital employed
Return on capital employed is calculated as total profit before
Free cash flow
taxation as a percentage of average net assets over the year.
Free cash flow is defined as the net cash inflow/outflow from
continuing operating activities less capital expenditure on Total net debt
property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, Net debt is defined as total borrowings less cash, cash
contingent consideration payments, net finance costs, and equivalents, liquid investments, and short-term loans to third
dividends paid to non-controlling interests plus proceeds from parties that are subject to an insignificant risk of change in value.
the sale of property, plant and equipment and intangible Please see Note 30 ‘Net Debt’ for the calculation of net debt.
assets, and dividends received from joint ventures and
associates. It is used by management for planning and Total Operating Margin
reporting purposes and in discussions with and presentations
Total Operating margin is operating profit dividend by turnover.
to investment analysts and rating agencies. Free cash flow
growth is calculated on a reported basis. A reconciliation of
Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR)
net cash inflow from continuing operating activities to free
cash flow is set out on page 86. CAGR is defined as the compound annual growth rate and
shows the annualised average rate of revenue growth between
Working capital a number of given years, assuming growth takes place at an
exponentially compounded rate.
Working capital represents inventory and trade receivables
less trade payables.
CER and AER growth
In order to illustrate underlying performance, it is the Group’s
practice to discuss its results in terms of constant exchange
rate (CER) growth. This represents growth calculated as if the
exchange rates used to determine the results of overseas
companies in Sterling had remained unchanged from those
used in the comparative period. CER% represents growth at
constant exchange rates. £% or AER% represents growth at
actual exchange rates.
7071
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
GSK Annual Report 2022
Group financial review continued
Reporting framework continued
Non-controlling interests in ViiV Healthcare The cash payments are reflected in the cash flow statement
partly in operating cash flows and partly within investing
Trading profit allocations activities. The tax relief on these payments is reflected in the
As ViiV Healthcare is a subsidiary of the Group, 100% Group’s Adjusting items as part of the tax charge. The part of
of its operating results (turnover, operating profit, profit after each payment relating to the original estimate of the fair value
tax) are included within the Group income statement and then of the contingent consideration on the acquisition of the
a portion of the earnings is allocated to the non-controlling Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture in 2012 of £659 million is
interests owned by the other shareholders, in line with their reported within investing activities in the cash flow statement
respective equity shareholdings (Pfizer, Inc. (Pfizer) 11.7% and and the part of each payment relating to the increase in the
Shionogi & Co. Ltd (Shionogi) 10%). Each of the shareholders, liability since the acquisition is reported within operating cash
including GSK, is also entitled to preferential dividends flows.
determined by the performance of certain products that each
Movements in contingent consideration payable to Shionogi
shareholder contributed. As the relative performance of these
were as follows:
products changes over time, the proportion of the overall
earnings allocated to each shareholder also changes. In 2022 2021
£m £m
particular, the increasing proportion of sales of dolutegravir
Contingent consideration at beginning of the year 5,559 5,359
and cabotegravir-containing products has a favourable
Remeasurement through income statement and
impact on the proportion of the preferential dividends that is
other movements 1,431 1,026
allocated to GSK. Adjusting items are allocated to
Cash payments: operating cash flows (1,031) (721)
shareholders based on their equity interests. GSK was entitled
Cash payments: investing activities (69) (105)
to approximately 83% of the Total earnings and 82% of the
Contingent consideration at end of the year 5,890 5,559
Adjusted earnings of ViiV Healthcare for 2022.
Remeasurements of the liabilities for the preferential dividends Of the contingent consideration payable (on a post-tax basis)
allocated to Pfizer and Shionogi are included within other to Shionogi at 31 December 2022, £940 million (31 December
operating income/(expense). 2021: £937 million) is expected to be paid within one year.
Acquisition-related arrangements Exit rights
As consideration for the acquisition of Shionogi’s interest in the Pfizer may request an IPO of ViiV Healthcare at any time and if
former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture in 2012, Shionogi either GSK does not consent to such IPO or an offering is not
received the 10% equity stake in ViiV Healthcare and ViiV completed within nine months, Pfizer could require GSK to
Healthcare also agreed to pay additional future cash acquire its shareholding. Under the original agreements, GSK
consideration to Shionogi, contingent on the future sales had the unconditional right, so long as it made no subsequent
performance of the products being developed by that joint distribution to its shareholders, to withhold its consent to the
venture, dolutegravir and cabotegravir. Under IFRS 3 `Business exercise of the Pfizer put option and, as a result, in accordance
combinations’, GSK was required to provide for the estimated with IFRS, GSK did not recognise a liability for the put option on
fair value of this contingent consideration at the time of its balance sheet. However, during Q1 2016, GSK notified Pfizer
acquisition and is required to update the liability to the latest that it had irrevocably given up this right and accordingly
estimate of fair value at each subsequent period end. The recognised the liability for the put option on the Group’s
liability for the contingent consideration recognised in the balance sheet during Q1 2016 at an initial value of £1,070
balance sheet at the date of acquisition was £659 million. million. Consistent with this revised treatment, at the end of Q1
Subsequent re-measurements are reflected within other 2016 GSK also recognised liabilities for the future preferential
operating income/(expense) and within Adjusting items in the dividends anticipated to become payable to Pfizer and
income statement in each period. Shionogi on the Group’s balance sheet.
Cash payments to settle the contingent consideration are Pfizer has the right to require GSK to acquire its shareholding in
made to Shionogi by ViiV Healthcare each quarter, based on ViiV Healthcare in certain circumstances at any time. A put
the actual sales performance and other income of the relevant option liability is therefore recorded on the Group’s balance
products in the previous quarter. These payments reduce the sheet as a current liability. It is measured on the gross
balance sheet liability and hence are not recorded in the income redemption basis derived from an internal valuation of the ViiV
statement. The cash payments made to Shionogi by ViiV Healthcare business.
Healthcare in 2022 were £1,100 million. The closing balances of the liabilities related to Pfizer’s
As the liability is required to be recorded at the fair value of shareholding are as follows:
estimated future payments, there is a significant timing 2022 2021
£m £m
difference between the charges that are recorded in the Total
income statement to reflect movements in the fair value of the Pfizer put option 1,093 1,008
liability and the actual cash payments made to settle the
liability.GSK Annual Report 2022
Group financial review continued
Reporting framework continued
Under the original agreements, Shionogi could also have Reporting definitions
requested GSK to acquire its shareholding in ViiV Healthcare in
six-month windows commencing in 2017, 2020 and 2022. GSK COVID-19 solutions
had the unconditional right, so long as it made no subsequent COVID-19 solutions include the sales of pandemic adjuvant
distribution to its shareholders, to withhold its consent to the and other COVID-19 solutions including vaccine
exercise of the Shionogi put option and, as a result, GSK did not manufacturing and Xevudy and the associated costs but does
recognise a liability for the put option on its balance sheet. not include reinvestment in R&D. This categorisation is used
However, during Q1 2016, GSK notified Shionogi that it had by management and we believe is helpful to investors by
irrevocably given up this right and accordingly recognised the providing clarity on the results of the Group by showing the
liability for the put option on the Group’s balance sheet during contribution to growth from COVID-19 solutions.
Q1 2016 at an initial value of £926 million. In Q4 2016, Shionogi
irrevocably agreed to waive its put option and as a result GSK General Medicines
de-recognised the liability for this put option on the Group’s General medicines are usually prescribed in the primary
balance sheet directly to equity. The value of the liability was care or community settings by general healthcare
£1,244 million when it was de-recognised. practitioners. For GSK, this includes medicines in inhaled
respiratory, dermatology, antibiotics and other diseases.
GSK also has a call option over Shionogi’s shareholding in
ViiV Healthcare, which under the original agreements was
Specialty Medicines
exercisable in six-month windows commencing in 2027, 2030
and 2032. GSK has now irrevocably agreed to waive the first Specialty medicines are typically prescription medicines used
two exercise windows, but the last six-month window in 2032 to treat complex or rare chronic conditions. For GSK, this
remains. As this call option is at fair value, it has no value for comprises medicines in infectious diseases, HIV, oncology,
accounting purposes. immunology and respiratory.
Settlement with Gilead Share Consolidation
On 1 February 2022, ViiV Healthcare reached agreement with Shareholders received 4 new Ordinary shares with a nominal
Gilead to settle the global patent infringement litigation value of 31¼ pence each for every 5 existing Ordinary shares
relating to the commercialisation of Gilead’s Biktarvy. Under which had a nominal value of 25 pence each. Earnings per
the terms of the global settlement and licensing agreement, share, diluted earnings per share, adjusted earnings per share
Gilead made an upfront payment of $1.25 billion to ViiV and dividends per share were retrospectively adjusted to
Healthcare in February 2022. In addition, Gilead will also pay a reflect the Share Consolidation in all the periods presented.
3% royalty on all future US sales of Biktarvy and in respect of
the bictegravir component of any other future bictegravir- Earnings per share
containing products sold in the US. These royalties will be Earnings per share has been retrospectively adjusted for the
payable by Gilead to ViiV Healthcare from 1 February 2022 Share Consolidation on 18 July 2022, applying a ratio of 4 new
until the expiry of ViiV Healthcare’s US Patent No. 8,129,385 on Ordinary shares for every 5 existing Ordinary shares.
5 October 2027. Gilead’s obligation to pay royalties does not
extend into any period of regulatory paediatric exclusivity, if Total Earnings per share
awarded.
Unless otherwise stated, Total earnings per share refers to
The impact of the settlement with Gilead on the contingent Total basic earnings per share. The same principle applies to
consideration liability (CCL) was to increase it by £288 million, continuing and discontinued earnings per share.
on a post-tax basis in Q4 2021 due to the obligation ViiV
Healthcare has to pay future cash consideration to Shionogi
for its share of the upfront and of the future US sales
performance of Biktarvy and products containing bictegravir.
The liability which is discounted at 8% is £5,890 million at
31 December 2022 on a post-tax basis. The impact of the
settlement on the Pfizer put option liability was an increase of
£114 million and was included in the re-measurement at
31 December 2021.
7273
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
GSK Annual Report 2022
Financial performance
Group turnover Specialty medicines
Group turnover by business Turnover (£bn)
Specialty Medicines
£11.3bn AER growth CER growth
£11.3bn
37% 29%
AER growth 37% CER growth 29% 38% of Group turnover
Vaccines
£7.9bn 2020 7.0
AER growth 17% CER growth 11% 2021 8.3
General Medicines
2022 11.3
£10.1bn
AER growth 5% CER growth 1% Specialty medicines turnover
Group turnover by geographic region
S pecialty turnover excluding
COVID-19 solutions
US £9.0bn
£14.5bn
AER growth 23% CER growth 15%
AER growth 22% CER growth 10%
Europe Pandemic turnover
£6.3bn £2.3bn
AER growth 18% CER growth 19% AER growth >100% CER growth >100%
International
£8.4bn 2021
2022 (revised) Growth Growth
AER growth 14% CER growth 14% £m £m £% CER%
HIV 5,749 4,777 20 12
Group turnover Oncology 602 489 23 17
GSK has revised its operating segments during the year. Immuno-inflammation,
respiratory and other 2,609 2,027 29 20
Previously, GSK reported results under four segments:
Pharmaceuticals; Pharmaceuticals R&D; Vaccines and 8,960 7,293 23 15
Consumer Healthcare. GSK now reports results under two Pandemic 2,309 958 >100 >100
segments namely Commercial Operations and Total R&D. See Specialty medicines 11,269 8,251 37 29
Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements for more
2021 has been revised to reflect changes to product groups previously reported as
details. Established Pharmaceuticals.
The Commercial Operations segment has three product groups
HIV
of Specialty Medicines, Vaccines and General Medicines.
HIV sales were £5,749 million with growth of 20% at AER,
• Specialty Medicines products which includes GSK’s marketed
12% at CER. The performance benefited from strong patient
products for HIV, oncology, immuno-inflammation,
demand for the new HIV medicines (Dovato, Cabenuva, Juluca,
respiratory and other specialty medicines (including Nucala)
Rukobia and Apretude), which contributed approximately three
and the pandemic solution, Xevudy;
quarters of the growth. US pricing favourability and year-end
• V accines products, including sales of GSK’s AS03 adjuvant as inventory build together contributed one third of the growth
part of the pandemic solutions; which was partially offset by International tender decline.
• General Medicines products, which include products New HIV products delivered sales of over two billion to £2,474
previously reported as Established Pharmaceuticals and million, up 78% at AER, 67% at CER, representing 43% of the
sales of Trelegy Ellipta and Anoro Ellipta (previously reported total HIV portfolio compared to 29% last year. Growth was
within the Respiratory category under Specialty products). primarily driven by sales of Dovato and Cabenuva. Dovato
These products are typically accessed by patients through recorded sales of £1,375 million up 75% at AER and 65% at CER
primary care settings. and Cabenuva, the first long acting injectable for the treatment
of HIV-1 infection, recorded sales of £340 million. Apretude, the
Group turnover was £29,324 million in the year, up 19% at AER,
first long acting injectable for the prevention of HIV-1 delivered
13% at CER. In 2022 sales grew 16% at AER, 10% CER excluding
sales of £41 million.
COVID-19 solutions.GSK Annual Report 2022
Group financial review continued
Financial performance continued
Oncology
Vaccines
Oncology sales were £602 million, up 23% at AER, 17% at CER.
Zejula sales of £463 million were up 17% at AER, 12% at CER
Turnover (£bn)
driven by the first line indication, but with diagnosis and
treatment rates continuing to be impacted by the pandemic £7.9bn AER growth CER growth
especially in the US. Sales of Blenrep of £118 million grew 33% 17% 11%
at AER, 25% at CER, and included the impact of withdrawal
27% of Group turnover
from US market in Q4 2022.
2020 7.0
Immuno-inflammation, respiratory and other
Immuno-inflammation, Respiratory and Other sales were 2021 6.8
£2,609 million up 29% at AER, 20% at CER on strong 2022 7.9
performance of Benlysta and Nucala. Benlysta sales were
£1,146 million, up 31% at AER, 20% at CER, representing strong
Vaccines turnover
underlying demand in US and worldwide. Nucala sales were
£1,423 million, up 25% at AER, 18% at CER, reflecting continued
V accines turnover excluding
strong patient demand and the launch of additional
COVID-19 solutions
indications.
£7.9bn
Pandemic AER growth 24% CER growth 17%
Sales of Xevudy were £2,309 million, compared to £958 million
Pandemic turnover
sales in 2021. Sales were delivered in all regions, comprising
£828 million in the US, £456 million in Europe, and £1,025 £64 million
million in International.
AER decline -86% CER decline -86%
2022 2021 Growth Growth
£m £m £% CER%
Meningitis 1,116 961 16 11
Influenza 714 679 5 (4)
Shingles 2,958 1,721 72 60
Established Vaccines 3,085 2,970 4 –
7,873 6,331 24 17
Pandemic Vaccines 64 447 (86) (86)
Vaccines 7,937 6,778 17 11
Meningitis
Meningitis vaccines sales grew 16% at AER, 11% at CER to £1,116
million mainly driven by Bexsero up 16% at AER, 12% at CER to
£753 million resulting from higher CDC (Center for Disease
Control) demand and increased share in the US. Menveo sales
were also up 27% AER, 18% CER to £345 million, primarily
driven by post-pandemic vaccination catch-up and higher
public demand in International, together with favourable
pricing mix and share gain in the US.
Influenza
Fluarix/FluLaval sales grew by 5% AER but decreased 4% CER
to £714 million, primarily driven by lower post-pandemic
demand in Europe and the US, partly offset by lower expected
returns in the US.
7475
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
GSK Annual Report 2022
Group financial review continued
Financial performance continued
Shingles
General Medicines
Shingrix sales grew 72% at AER, 60% at CER to £2,958 million.
All regions grew significantly reflecting post-pandemic
Turnover (£bn) rebound, strong uptake and new market launches with more
than half of the growth contributed from outside of the US.
AER growth CER growth
£10.1bn
In the US, Shingrix grew 46% at AER, 32% at CER to £1,964 5% 1%
million due to higher non-retail and retail demand and strong
commercial execution. Germany and China contributed 35% of Group turnover
strongly to the Shingrix growth. Shingrix was launched in 9
2020 10.4
markets during 2022 and is now available in 26 countries.
2021 9.7
Established Vaccines
Established Vaccines grew 4% AER but were stable at CER 2022 10.1
to £3,085 million mainly resulting from supply constraints in
MMR/V vaccines and lower tender demand in International
General Medicines turnover
for Synflorix. This was offset by hepatitis vaccines demand
rebound in the US and Europe and Boostrix post-pandemic 2021
demand recovery and increased share in the US. 2022 (revised) Growth Growth
£m £m £% CER%
Respiratory 6,548 6,048 8 3
Pandemic Vaccines
Other general medicines 3,570 3,619 (1) (2)
Pandemic Vaccines decreased 86% AER and CER primarily
General medicines 10,118 9,667 5 1
reflecting comparison to 2021 pandemic adjuvant sales to the
US and Canadian governments partly offset by GSK’s share of 2021 has been revised to reflect changes to product groups previously reported as
2022 contracted European volumes related to the COVID-19 Established Pharmaceuticals.
booster vaccine developed through a collaboration with Sanofi
Pasteur (Sanofi). Respiratory
Respiratory sales were £6,548 million, up 8% at AER, 3% at
CER. The performance was driven by Trelegy sales of £1,729
million, up 42% AER, 32% CER, including strong growth across
all regions. Advair/Seretide sales of £1,159 million decreased
15% at AER, 17% at CER predominantly reflecting the adverse
impact of generic competition, with growth in certain
International markets due to targeted promotion offsetting
the decrease.
Other general medicines
Other General Medicines sales were £3,570 million, decreasing
1% at AER, 2% at CER. Augmentin sales were £576 million, up
35% at AER, 38% at CER, reflecting the post pandemic
rebound of the antibiotic market since H2 2021 in the
International and Europe regions. This partially offsets the
ongoing adverse impact of generic competition, and
approximately two percentage points impact at AER and CER
from the divestment of cephalosporin products in Q4 2021.GSK Annual Report 2022
Group financial review continued
Financial performance continued
Turnover by regions General Medicines sales of £2,079 million decreased 3% at
AER and CER, reflecting the ongoing impact of generic
US competitive pressures on Seretide and the divestment in Q4
In the US, sales were £14,542 million, up 22% at AER, 10% at 2021 of cephalosporin products which caused one percentage
CER. Sales adjusted for COVID-19 solutions were up 24% AER, point of drag on growth at AER and CER. This was partly
12% CER. Sales of Xevudy were £828 million. offset, however, by strong demand for Trelegy and the growth
In Specialty, HIV sales of £3,756 million were up 30% at AER, of Augmentin following the post-pandemic rebound of the
17% at CER. Growth benefited from strong patient demand for antibiotic market since H2 2021.
all new HIV products, pricing favourability and year-end
International
inventory build. New HIV medicines (Dovato, Cabenuva,
International sales were £8,434 million, up 14% at AER and
Juluca, Rukobia and Apretude) sales were £1,685 million up
CER, including Xevudy sales of £1,025 million. Sales grew 7%
88% at AER, 70% at CER. Nucala in respiratory and Benlysta
AER and 6% CER excluding sales of COVID-19 solutions.
in immunology both continued to grow double-digit and
reflected ongoing strong patient demand. Oncology sales In Specialty, HIV sales were £683 million, stable at AER and
increased 14% at AER, 3% at CER with diagnosis and decreased 3% at CER, primarily driven by tender decline.
treatment rates continuing to be impacted by the pandemic Excluding tenders, International grew driven by strong Dovato
for Zejula, and the withdrawal of Blenrep from the US market growth. Combined Tivicay and Triumeq sales were £506
in Q4 2022. million, down 12% at AER and 15% at CER. Nucala sales of
£242 million grew 24% at AER and 28% at CER reflecting
Vaccine sales were £4,243 million, up 22% at AER, 10% at CER,
strong market growth and patient uptake. Benlysta sales of
excluding the impact of pandemic adjuvant sales in 2021, sales
£114 million grew 44% at AER, 43% at CER reflecting growth in
increased 31% at AER, 18% at CER. The performance was
the biological market in Japan and inclusion on China’s
primarily driven by Shingrix sales of £1,964 million up 46% at
National Reimbursement Drug List.
AER, 32% at CER, mostly due to higher non-retail and retail
demand and strong commercial execution. Demand recovery Vaccine sales were £1,810 million, down 3% at AER, 5% at CER,
in Established Vaccines and share gains in Meningitis vaccines reflecting an 11 percentage points drag at AER and CER from
also contributed to growth. COVID-19 vaccine adjuvant sales in 2021. Growth excluding
COVID-19 solutions was driven by strong Shingrix take-up in
General Medicines sales were £3,572 million up 10% at AER
China, Canada and Japan more than offsetting the impact of
down 1% at CER. Trelegy was up 47% at AER, 32% at CER
supply constraints in MMR/V vaccines and lower Synflorix
reflecting increased patient demand and growth of the single
tender demand across several markets.
inhaler triple therapy market, and Flovent grew on launch of
authorised generics in the year. Overall, there was a three- General Medicines sales were £4,467 million up 5% at AER and
percentage point reduction in growth of US General Medicines CER. Respiratory sales of £1,955 million increased 10% at AER,
due to prior period Returns and Rebates (RAR) adjustments in 9% at CER, with Trelegy sales up 47% at AER, 48% at CER
the year. reflecting strong demand and inclusion on China’s National
Reimbursement Drug List. Sales of Advair/Seretide were up
Europe 3% at AER, 1% at CER with the adverse impact of generic
In Europe, sales were £6,348 million, up 18% at AER, 19% at competition offset by growth in certain markets due to
CER, including COVID-19 solution sales of £513 million targeted promotion. Other General Medicines sales of £2,512
contributing 8 percentage points of growth at AER and CER. million increased 1% at AER, 2% at CER, and reflected growth
In Specialty Medicines, HIV sales were £1,310 million up 10% at of Augmentin following the post-pandemic rebound of the
AER, 10% at CER primarily driven by strong patient demand for antibiotic market since H2 2021, partially offset by generic
Dovato, Cabenuva and Juluca. Dovato delivered sales of £478 competition and price reductions in certain markets.
million, Juluca £127 million and Cabenuva £40 million. Benlysta
in immunology, Nucala in respiratory, and Oncology medicines
Zejula, Blenrep and Jemperli all continued to show strong
double-digit growth.
Vaccine sales were £1,884 million, up 31% at AER, 32% at CER.
The performance was driven by Shingrix sales of £688 million,
>100% at AER and CER, particularly in Germany. Pandemic
adjuvant sales of £57 million contributed four percentage
points of growth at AER and CER.
7677
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
GSK Annual Report 2022
Group financial review continued
Financial performance continued
Cost of sales Research and development
2022 2021(1) Growth Growth 2022 2021(1) Growth Growth
£m £m £% CER% £m £m £% CER%
Total cost of sales (9,554) (8,163) 17 16 Total research and development (5,488) (5,019) 9 4
Adjusted cost of sales (8,741) (7,346) 19 18 Adjusted research and
development (5,062) (4,525) 12 6
(1) T he 2021 comparative results have been restated on a consistent basis
from those previously published to reflect the demerger of the Consumer (1) T he 2021 comparative results have been restated on a consistent basis
Healthcare business (see page 238). from those previously published to reflect the demerger of the Consumer
Healthcare business (see page 238).
Total cost of sales as a percentage of turnover was 32.6%,
Total R&D expenditure was £5,488 million up 9% at AER, 4% at
0.5 percentage points lower at AER and 0.9 percentage points
CER. This included amortisation and impairments.
higher in CER terms than 2021.
Adjusted R&D expenditure in the full-year increased by 12% at
Adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of turnover was 29.8%,
AER, and 6% at CER, to £5,062 million. This reflected continued
0.1 percentage points higher at AER and 1.3 percentage points
increased investment across Vaccines clinical development,
higher at CER compared with 2021. This primarily reflected
including investments into our mRNA technology platforms,
higher sales of lower margin Xevudy compared to 2021 which
continued investment in the late-stage portfolio and several
included higher margin pandemic adjuvant sales, increasing
early discovery programmes, as well as expenditure related to
cost of sales margin by 2.5 percentage points at AER and CER,
our recent acquisition of Affinivax, Inc (Affinivax).
as well as the impact of increased commodity prices and
freight costs. This was partially offset by a favourable mix In addition, in Specialty Medicines, the level of R&D investment
primarily from increased sales of Shingrix in the US and increased to support the phase III respiratory programme for
Europe and increased sales of HIV medicines in the US, depemokimab, a potential new medicine to treat severe
lower inventory adjustments and write offs in Vaccines and asthma, and bepirovirsen, our study in chronic hepatitis B, in
continued contribution from restructuring savings. preparation for the start of the phase III trial. In Oncology,
investment increased in our early-stage immuno-oncology
Selling, general and administration assets and in momelotinib (MMB), our potential new treatment
of myelofibrosis patients with anaemia, acquired as part of
2022 2021(1) Growth Growth
£m £m £% CER% the recent Sierra Oncology acquisition. These increases in
Total selling, general and investment were offset by decreases related to the completion
administration (8,372) (7,070) 18 13 of several late-stage clinical development programmes and
Adjusted selling, general and reduced R&D investment in COVID-19 pandemic solutions
administration (8,128) (6,749) 20 15 versus 2021.
(1) T he 2021 comparative results have been restated on a consistent basis
from those previously published to reflect the demerger of the Consumer Royalty income
Healthcare business (see page 238).
Royalty income was £758 million (2021: £417 million), up 82%
Total SG&A costs as a percentage of turnover were 28.6%, 0.1 at AER, 81% at CER, the increase primarily reflecting royalty
percentage points lower at AER and stable at CER compared income from Gilead under the settlement and licensing
to 2021. This included a reduction in restructuring charges. agreement with Gilead announced on 1 February 2022 and
Gardasil royalty income increasing to £446 million due to
Adjusted SG&A costs as a percentage of turnover were 27.7%,
higher sales.
0.4 percentage points higher at AER and 0.5 percentage points
higher at CER than in 2021. Adjusted SG&A costs increased
20% at AER, 15% at CER which primarily reflected an increased
level of launch investment in Specialty Medicines particularly
HIV and Vaccines including Shingrix to drive post-pandemic
recovery demand and support market expansion. The growth
in Adjusted SG&A also reflected an unfavourable comparison
to a beneficial legal settlement in 2021 as well as impairment
provisions relating to Russia and Ukraine. This growth was
partly offset by the continuing benefit of restructuring and tight
control of ongoing costs.GSK Annual Report 2022
Group financial review continued
Financial performance continued
Other operating income/(expense) Adjusted operating profit by business
Net other operating expense was £235 million (2021: £504 Commercial Operations operating profit was £13,590 million,
million) reflecting accounting charges of £1,726 million (2021: up 19% at AER and 10% at CER on a turnover increase of 13%
£1,101 million) arising from the remeasurement of contingent at CER. The operating margin of 46.3% was 0.1 percentage
consideration liabilities and the liabilities for the Pfizer put points lower at AER, 1.2 percentage points lower at CER than in
option and Pfizer and Shionogi preferential dividends in ViiV 2021. This primarily reflected strong sales of lower margin
Healthcare. This included a remeasurement charge of £1,431 Xevudy, increased investment behind launches in Specialty
million (2021: £1,026 million) for the contingent consideration Medicines including HIV and Vaccines plus higher commodity,
liability due to Shionogi, including the unwinding of the freight and distribution costs as well as an adverse comparison
discount of £410 million and a charge for £1,021 million to a favourable legal settlement in 2021. This was partly offset
primarily from changes to exchange rates as well as by leverage from strong sales growth, mix and lower inventory
adjustments to sales forecasts. This was partly offset by £922 adjustments and write-offs, continued tight control of ongoing
million upfront income received from the settlement with costs, benefits from continued restructuring and increased
Gilead, fair value gain on investments including £229 million royalty income from Biktarvy and Gardasil sales.
on the retained stake in Haleon plc (Haleon), reflecting an
R&D segment operating expenses were £5,060 million, up 11%
increase in share price since listing and milestone income from
at AER, 5% at CER, primarily reflecting increased investment in
disposals.
Vaccines including priority investments for mRNA, late stage
portfolio and expenditure from the acquisition of Affinivax and
Operating profit
in Specialty Medicines in early stage HIV and depemokimab.
Total operating profit from continuing operations was £6,433 This was partly offset by decreases related to the completion
million compared with £4,357 million in 2021. of several late-stage clinical development programmes and
This included the £922 million upfront income received from reduced R&D investment in COVID-19 pandemic solutions
the settlement with Gilead, increased profits on turnover versus 2021.
growth of 19% at AER, 13% at CER and fair value gains on
investments including £229 million on the retained stake in
Haleon, partly offset by higher remeasurement charges for
contingent consideration liabilities. Adjusted operating profit
was £8,151 million, 26% higher at AER and 14% at CER than
2021 on a turnover increase of 13% at CER. The Adjusted
operating margin of 27.8% was 1.5 percentage points higher at
AER and 0.3 percentage points higher at CER compared to
2021. This primarily reflected the impact from low margin
COVID-19 solutions sales (Xevudy), which reduced Adjusted
Operating profit growth by 3% AER and CER and reduced the
Adjusted operating margin by approximately 1.4 percentage
points at AER and approximately 1.3 percentage points at CER.
This was offset by operating leverage from strong sales growth,
mix benefit, lower inventory adjustments and write offs and
higher royalty income.
Contingent consideration cash payments made to Shionogi
and other companies reduce the balance sheet liability and
hence are not recorded in the income statement. Total
contingent consideration cash payments in 2022 amounted to
£1,137 million (2021: £856 million). These included cash
payments made to Shionogi of £1,100 million (2021: £826
million).
7879
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
GSK Annual Report 2022
Group financial review continued
Financial performance continued
Net finance costs The charge of £707 million represented an effective tax rate on
Total results of 12.6% (2021: 2.3%) and reflected the different
2022 2021(1)
Finance income £m £m tax effects of the various Adjusting items. Included in 2021 was
Interest and other income 62 13 a credit of £430 million resulting from the remeasurement of
deferred tax assets following enactment of the proposed
Fair value movements 14 1
change of UK corporate income tax rates from 19% to 25%.
76 14
Tax on Adjusted profit amounted to £1,138 million and
represented an effective Adjusted tax rate of 15.5% (2021:
Finance expense
15.9%).
Interest expense (789) (735)
Unwinding of discounts on provisions (7) (2) Issues related to taxation are described in Note 14 to the
financial statements ‘Taxation’. The Group continues to believe
Remeasurements and fair value movements (20) (2)
it has made adequate provision for the liabilities likely to arise
Finance expense on lease liabilities (30) (27)
from periods which are open and not yet agreed by tax
Other finance expense (33) (3)
authorities. The ultimate liability for such matters may vary
(879) (769) from the amounts provided and is dependent upon the
outcome of agreements with relevant tax authorities.
(1) T he 2021 comparative results have been restated on a consistent basis
from those previously published to reflect the demerger of the Consumer
Healthcare business (see page 238). Non-controlling interests
Total net finance costs were £803 million compared with £755 The allocation of Total profit from continuing operations to
million in 2021. Adjusted net finance costs were £791 million non-controlling interests amounted to £460 million (2021: £200
compared with £752 million in 2021. The increase is mainly million). The increase was primarily due to an increased allocation
driven by costs associated with the Sterling Notes repurchase of ViiV Healthcare profits of £416 million (2021: £197 million),
in Q4 2022 and higher interest on tax offset by increased including the Gilead upfront settlement income, partly offset by
interest income due to higher interest rates and larger cash increased credits for remeasurement of contingent consideration
balances as a result of the Consumer Healthcare demerger. liabilities, as well as higher net profits in some of the Group’s other
entities with non-controlling interests.
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint
The allocation of Adjusted earnings from continuing operations to
ventures non-controlling interests amounted to £595 million (2021: £441
The share of after tax loss of associates and joint ventures was million). The increase in allocation primarily reflected an increased
£2 million (2021: £33 million share of profit). allocation of ViiV Healthcare profits of £551 million (2021: £438
million), as well as higher net profits in some of the Group’s other
Loss on disposal of interest in associates entities with non-controlling interests.
In 2021, the Group also reported a net loss on disposal of
Earnings per share from continuing operations
interests in associates of £36 million, primarily driven by a loss
on disposal of our interest in the associate Innoviva Inc. Total EPS from continuing operations was 110.8p compared
with 82.9p in 2021. This primarily reflected the £922 million
Profit before tax upfront income received from the settlement with Gilead,
increased profits on turnover growth of 13% at CER and fair
Taking account of net finance costs, the share of profits of
value gains on investments including the retained stake in
associates and loss on disposal of interest in associates, profit
Haleon, partly offset by higher remeasurement charges for
before taxation was £5,628 million compared with £3,599
contingent consideration liabilities and an unfavourable
million in 2021.
comparison due to a credit of £430 million to Taxation in
2021 resulting from the remeasurement of deferred tax assets.
Taxation
Adjusted EPS was 139.7p compared with 110.3p in 2021, up 27%
2022 2021(1)
at AER, 15% at CER on a 13% CER turnover increase. Operating
£m £m
UK current year charge 200 119 leverage from growth in sales of Specialty Medicines including
HIV and Vaccines, beneficial mix and lower inventory
Rest of world current year charge 1,351 593
adjustments and write-offs, higher royalty income and a lower
Charge/(credit) in respect of prior periods (60) 219
effective tax rate was partly offset by increased investment
Total current taxation 1,491 931 behind launches in Specialty Medicines including HIV and
Total deferred taxation (784) (848) Vaccines plus higher supply chain costs, freight and
Taxation on total profits 707 83 distribution costs and higher non-controlling interests. Growth
in lower margin COVID-19 solutions sales reduced Adjusted
(1) T he 2021 comparative results have been restated on a consistent basis
EPS growth by 4% AER and 3% CER.
from those previously published to reflect the demerger of the Consumer
Healthcare business (see page 238).GSK Annual Report 2022
Group financial review continued
Financial performance continued
Profit and earnings per share from discontinued Guidance and Outlook
operations GSK expects 2023 turnover to increase between 6 to 8 per cent,
Discontinued operations include the Consumer Healthcare Adjusted operating profit to increase between 10 to 12 per cent
business and certain Corporate costs directly attributable to the and Adjusted earnings per share to increase between 12 to 15 per
Consumer Healthcare business. Profit after taxation from cent. This guidance is provided at CER and excludes any
discontinued operations amounted to £10,700 million (2021: £1,580 contributions from COVID-19 solutions.
million). This includes £10,084 million for the gain arising on the In outlining the guidance for 2023, the Group has made certain
demerger of Consumer Healthcare split between the amount assumptions about the healthcare sector, the different markets in
distributed to shareholders on demerger of £7,651 million and profit which the Group operates and the delivery of revenues and
after taxation on discontinued operations for the retained stake of financial benefits from its current portfolio, pipeline and
£2,433 million. In addition, the Profit after taxation from restructuring programmes. Due to the phasing of quarterly results
discontinued operations for the Consumer Healthcare business in 2022 and the resulting comparators, GSK expects turnover and
was £616 million (2021: £1,580 million). Adjusted operating profit growth to be slightly lower in the first half
EPS from discontinued operations was 260.6p, compared with of 2023 including a challenging comparator in Q1 2022 and
26.7p in 2021. The increase primarily reflected the gain arising on somewhat higher in the second half, relative to full-year
the demerger of the Consumer Healthcare business. For further expectations. Despite the ongoing recovery of healthcare systems
details see page 238. from the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, uncertain economic
conditions prevail across many markets in which GSK operates
Total earnings per share and we continue to expect to see variability in performance
between quarters.
Total EPS was 371.4p compared with 109.6p in 2021. The increase
primarily reflected the profit after taxation for discontinued We expect sales of Specialty Medicines to increase mid to high
operations recognised on the Consumer Healthcare business single-digit per cent, sales of Vaccines to increase mid-teens per
demerger, upfront income received from the settlement with cent and sales of General Medicines to decrease slightly.
Gilead, increased profits and fair value gains on investments,
partly offset by higher remeasurement charges for contingent COVID-19 solutions
consideration liabilities and an unfavourable comparison due to a Based on known binding agreements with governments, GSK does
credit of £397 million to Taxation in 2021. not anticipate any significant COVID-19 pandemic-related sales or
operating profit in 2023. Sales of COVID-19 solutions were £2.4
Dividends billion in 2022 and therefore we expect a reduction in Turnover
The Board has declared four interim dividends resulting in a total growth by approximately 9% and a reduction in Adjusted
dividend for the year of 61.25p per share retrospectively adjusted for Operating profit growth by 6% to 7%. However, the Company
the share consolidation. The 2021 dividend per share was 100p continues to discuss future opportunities to support governments,
retrospectively adjusted for the share consolidation. See Note 16 to healthcare systems, and patients whereby its COVID-19 solutions
the financial statements, ‘Dividends’. can address the emergence of any new COVID-19 variant of
concern.
Dividend policy
On 23 June 2021, at the new GSK Investor Update, GSK set out
that from 2022 a progressive dividend policy will be implemented
guided by a 40 to 60 percent pay-out ratio through the investment
cycle. The dividend policy, the total expected cash distribution,
and the respective dividend pay-out ratios for GSK remain
unchanged.
GSK has previously stated that it expected to declare a 27p per
share dividend for the first half of 2022, a 22p per share dividend
for the second half of 2022 and a 45p per share dividend for 2023
(before the Share Consolidation) but that these targeted dividends
per share would increase in step with the Share Consolidation to
maintain the same aggregate dividend pay-out in absolute
Sterling terms. Accordingly, using the consolidation ratio, GSK’s
expected dividend for the fourth quarter of 2022 converts to 13.75p
per new ordinary share. This results in an expected total dividend
for the second half of 2022 of 27.5p per new ordinary share. The
expected dividend for 2023 converts to 56.5p per new ordinary
share in line with the original expectation converted for the Share
Consolidation and rounded up.
8081
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
GSK Annual Report 2022
Group financial review continued
Adjusting items
Profit from Divestments,
Adjusted results reconciliation
discon- Intangible Intangible significant
31 December 2022 Total tinued asset asset Major Transaction- legal and Adjusted
results operations amortisation impairment restructuring related other items results
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 29,324 29,324
Cost of sales (9,554) 648 102 45 18 (8,741)
Gross profit 19,770 648 102 45 18 20,583
Selling, general and administration (8,372) 180 13 51 (8,128)
Research and development (5,488) 91 296 39 (5,062)
Royalty income 758 758
Other operating (expense)/income (235) 1692 (1,457) –
Operating profit 6,433 739 296 321 1,750 (1,388) 8,151
Net finance costs (803) 2 10 (791)
Share of after-tax losses of associates and joint
ventures (2) (2)
Profit before taxation 5,628 739 296 323 1,750 (1,378) 7,358
Taxation (707) (150) (64) (87) (242) 112 (1,138)
Tax rate 12.6% 15.5%
Profit after taxation from continuing operations 4,921 589 232 236 1,508 (1,266) 6,220
Profit after taxation from discontinued operations
and other gains/(losses) from the demerger 3,049 (3,049)
Remeasurement of discontinued operations
distributed to shareholders on demerger 7,651 (7,651)
Profit after taxation from discontinued operations 10,700 (10,700)
Total profit after taxation for the year 15,621 (10,700) 589 232 236 1,508 (1,266) 6,220
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests from
continuing operations 460 135 595
Profit attributable to shareholders from continuing
operations 4,461 589 232 236 1,373 (1,266) 5,625
Profit attributable to non-controlling interest from
discontinued operations 205 (205)
Profit attributable to shareholders from discontinued
operations 10,495 (10,495)
15,621 (10,700) 589 232 236 1,508 (1,266) 6,220
Total profit attributable to non-controlling interests 665 (205) 135 595
Total profit attributable to shareholders 14,956 (10,495) 589 232 236 1,373 (1,266) 5,625
15,621 (10,700) 589 232 236 1,508 (1,266) 6,220
Earnings per share from continuing operations 110.8p 14.6p 5.8p 5.9p 34.1p (31.5)p 139.7p
Earnings per share from discontinued operations 260.6p (260.6)p
Total earnings per share 371.4p (260.6)p 14.6p 5.8p 5.9p 34.1p (31.5)p 139.7p
Weighted average number of shares (millions) 4,026 4,026GSK Annual Report 2022
Group financial review continued
Financial performance continued
Profit from Divestments,
Adjusted results reconciliation
discon- Intangible Intangible significant
31 December 2021(1) Total tinued asset asset Major Transaction- legal and Adjusted
results operations amortisation impairment restructuring related other items results
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 24,696 24,696
Cost of sales (8,163) 660 102 28 27 (7,346)
Gross profit 16,533 660 102 28 27 17,350
Selling, general and administration (7,070) 277 9 35 (6,749)
Research and development (5,019) 101 347 45 1 (4,525)
Royalty income 417 417
Other operating (expense)/income (504) 1,106 (602)
Operating profit 4,357 761 347 424 1,143 (539) 6,493
Net finance costs (755) 2 1 (752)
Loss on disposal of interest in associates (36) 36 –
Share of after-tax profits of associates and joint
ventures 33 33
Profit before taxation 3,599 761 347 426 1,143 (502) 5,774
Taxation (83) (153) (81) (79) (179) (343) (918)
Tax rate 2.3% 15.9%
Profit after taxation from continuing operations 3,516 608 266 347 964 (845) 4,856
Profit after taxation from discontinued operations
and other gains/(losses) from the demerger 1,580 (1,580)
Profit after taxation from discontinued operations 1,580 (1,580)
Total profit after taxation for the year 5,096 (1,580) 608 266 347 964 (845) 4,856
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests from
continuing operations 200 241 441
Profit attributable to shareholders from continuing
operations 3,316 608 266 347 723 (845) 4,415
Profit attributable to non-controlling interest from
discontinued operations 511 (511)
Profit attributable to shareholders from discontinued
operations 1,069 (1,069)
5,096 (1,580) 608 266 347 964 (845) 4,856
Total profit attributable to non-controlling interests 711 (511) 241 441
Total profit attributable to shareholders 4,385 (1,069) 608 266 347 723 (845) 4,415
5,096 (1,580) 608 266 347 964 (845) 4,856
Earnings per share from continuing operations 82.9p 15.2p 6.6p 8.7p 18.1p (21.2)p 110.3p
Earnings per share from discontinued operations 26.7p (26.7)p
Total earnings per share 109.6p (26.7)p 15.2p 6.6p 8.7p 18.1p (21.2)p 110.3p
Weighted average number of shares (millions) 4,003 4,003
(1) T he 2021 comparative results have been restated on a consistent basis from those previously published to reflect the demerger of the Consumer Healthcare
business (see page 238) and the impact of Share Consolidation implemented on 18 July 2022 (see page 233).
8283
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
GSK Annual Report 2022
Group financial review continued
Financial performance continued
Profit from Divestments,
Adjusted results reconciliation
discon- Intangible Intangible significant
31 December 2020(1) Total tinued asset asset Major Transaction- legal and Adjusted
results operations amortisation impairment restructuring related other items results
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 24.354 24,354
Cost of sales (7,929) 649 – 585 23 – (6,672)
Gross profit 16,425 649 – 585 23 – 17,682
Selling, general and administration (7,437) 2 395 (1) 16 (7,025)
Research and development (4,793) 75 198 198 (4,322)
Royalty income 321 321
Other operating (expense)/income 1,463 1,215 (2,678) –
Operating profit 5,979 724 200 1,178 1,237 (2,662) 6,656
Net finance costs (842) 2 2 (838)
Share of after-tax profits of associates and joint
ventures 33 33
Profit before taxation 5,170 724 200 1,180 1,237 (2,660) 5,851
Taxation (67) (142) (38) (213) (231) (125) (816)
Tax rate 1.3% 13.9%
Profit after taxation from continuing operations 5,103 582 162 967 1,006 (2,785) 5,035
Profit after taxation from discontinued operations
and other gains/(losses) from the demerger 1,285 (1,285)
Profit after taxation from discontinued operations 1,285 (1,285)
Total profit after taxation for the year 6,388 (1,285) 582 162 967 1,006 (2,785) 5,035
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests from
continuing operations 230 251 481
Profit attributable to shareholders from continuing
operations 4,873 582 162 967 755 (2,785) 4,554
Profit attributable to non-controlling interest from
discontinued operations 409 (409)
Profit attributable to shareholders from discontinued
operations 876 (876)
6,388 (1,285) 582 162 967 1,006 (2,785) 5,035
Total profit attributable to non-controlling interests 639 (409) 251 481
Total profit attributable to shareholders 5,749 (876) 582 162 967 755 (2,785) 4,554
6,388 (1,285) 582 162 967 1,066 (2,785) 5,035
Earnings per share from continuing operations 122.4p 14.6p 4.1p 24.3p 19.0p (70.0)p 114.4p
Earnings per share from discontinued operations 22.0p (22.0)p
Total earnings per share 144.4p (22.0)p 14.6p 4.1p 24.3p 19.0p (70.0)p 114.4p
Weighted average number of shares (millions) 3,981 3,981
(1) T he 2020 comparative results have been restated on a consistent basis from those previously published to reflect the demerger of the Consumer Healthcare
business (see page 238) and the impact of Share Consolidation implemented on 18 July 2022 (see page 233).GSK Annual Report 2022
Group financial review continued
Adjusting items continued
Profit from discontinued operations Cash charges of £177 million under the Separation Preparation
programme primarily arose from the restructuring of some
Discontinued operations include the Consumer Healthcare
administrative functions as well as Global Supply Chain, R&D
business and certain Corporate costs directly attributable to
functions and commercial. The non-cash charges of £110
the Consumer Healthcare business. Profit after taxation from
million primarily reflected the write-down of assets in
discontinued operations amounted to £10,700 million (2021:
administrative and manufacturing locations and impairment
£1,580 million). This includes £10,084 million for the gain arising
of IT assets.
on the demerger of Consumer Healthcare split between the
amount distributed to shareholders on demerger of £7,651 Total cash payments made in 2022 were £388 million (2021:
million and profit after taxation on discontinued operations for £551 million), £332 million (2021: £428 million) relating to the
the retained stake of £2,433 million. In addition, the Profit after Separation Preparation restructuring programme, £17 million
taxation from discontinued operations for the Consumer relating to significant acquisitions (2021: £nil) and £39 million
Healthcare business was £616 million (2021: £1,580 million). (2021: £123 million) relating to other legacy programmes
including the settlement of certain charges accrued in previous
Intangible asset amortisation quarters.
See page 211 for description and information on Intangible
The analysis of Major restructuring charges by income
asset amortisation.
statement line was as follows:
Intangible asset impairment 2022 2021(1)
£m £m
See page 211 for description and information on Intangible
Cost of sales 102 102
asset impairment. No individual intangible asset accounted for
Selling, general and administration 180 277
a material impairment.
Research and development 39 45
Total Major restructuring costs from continuing
Major restructuring and integration
operations 321 424
Within the Pharmaceuticals sector, the highly regulated
(1) T he 2021 comparative results have been restated on a consistent basis
manufacturing operations and supply chains and long life from those previously published to reflect the demerger of the Consumer
cycle of the business mean that restructuring programmes, Healthcare business (see page 238).
particularly those that involve the rationalisation or closure of
The benefit in 2022 from restructuring programmes was
manufacturing or R&D sites are likely to take several years to
£0.5 billion, primarily relating to the Separation Preparation
complete.
restructuring programme.
Major restructuring costs are those related to specific
The Group initiated in Q1 2020 a Separation Preparation
Board-approved Major restructuring programmes and are
programme to prepare for the separation of GSK into two
excluded from Adjusted results. Major restructuring
companies: The programme aims were:
programmes, including integration costs following material
acquisitions, are those that are structural and are of a – Drive a common approach to R&D with improved capital
significant scale where the costs of individual or related allocation
projects exceed £25 million. Other ordinary course smaller- – Align and improve the capabilities and efficiency of global
scale restructuring costs are retained within Total and Adjusted support functions to support GSK
results.
– Further optimise the supply chain and product portfolio,
Total Major restructuring charges incurred in 2022 were including the divestment of non-core assets
£321 million (2021(1): £424 million), analysed as follows:
– Prepare Consumer Healthcare to operate as a standalone
2022 2021(1) company
Non- Non-
Cash cash Total Cash cash Total The programme delivered £0.9 billion of annual savings by
£m £m £m £m £m £m 2022 and targets to deliver £1.0 billion by 2023, with total costs
Separation estimated at £2.4 billion, of which £1.6 billion is expected to be
preparation
cash costs. The proceeds of divestments have largely covered
restructuring
the cash costs of the programme.
programme 177 110 287 353 59 412
Significant
acquisitions 20 – 20 – – –
Legacy programmes 9 5 14 32 (20) 12
206 115 321 385 39 424
(1) T he 2021 comparative results have been restated on a consistent basis
from those previously published to reflect the demerger of the Consumer
Healthcare business (see page 238).
8485
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
GSK Annual Report 2022
Group financial review continued
Adjusting items continued
Transaction-related adjustments The ViiV Healthcare contingent consideration liability is fair
valued under IFRS. An explanation of the accounting for the
Transaction-related adjustments from continuing operations
non-controlling interests in ViiV Healthcare is set out on
resulted in a net charge of £1,750 million (2021: £1,143 million).
page 71. This included a net £1,726 million accounting charge for the
re-measurement of the contingent consideration liabilities and
Divestments, significant legal charges and
the liabilities for the Pfizer put option and Pfizer and Shionogi
preferential dividends in ViiV Healthcare. other items
2022 2021(1) Divestments, significant legal charges and other items
Charge/(credit) £m £m primarily included the £922 million upfront settlement income
Contingent consideration on former Shionogi-ViiV received from Gilead, a fair value gain on investments
Healthcare Joint Venture (including Shionogi including £229 million on the retained stake in Haleon as well
preferential dividends) 1,431 1,026
as milestone income and gains from a number of asset
ViiV Healthcare put options and Pfizer disposals, partly offset by certain other Adjusting items.
preferential dividends 85 48
Contingent consideration on former Novartis Discontinued operations
Vaccines business 193 27
From Q2 2020, the Group started to report additional costs to
Contingent consideration on acquisition of prepare for establishment of the Consumer Healthcare
Affinivax 17 –
business as an independent entity (“Separation costs”). These
Other adjustments 24 42
are presented as part of discontinued operations. Total
Total transaction-related charges 1,750 1,143 separation costs incurred in 2022 were £366 million (2021: £314
(1) T he 2021 comparative results have been restated on a consistent basis million). This includes £103 million relating to transaction costs
from those previously published to reflect the demerger of the Consumer incurred in connection with the demerger and preparatory
Healthcare business (see page 238). admission costs related to the listing of Haleon.
The £1,431 million charge relating to the contingent Total separation costs to date are £748 million including £141
consideration for the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint million relating to transaction costs.
venture represented an increase in the valuation of the
contingent consideration due to Shionogi, as a result of the
unwind of the discount for £410 million and a charge of £1,021
million primarily from adjustments to sales forecasts and the
settlement with Gilead as well as updated exchange rate
assumptions. The £85 million charge relating to the ViiV
Healthcare put option and Pfizer preferential dividends
represented an increase in the valuation of the put option as a
result of the settlement with Gilead, offset by lower cash and
updated exchange rate assumptions.GSK Annual Report 2022
Group financial review continued
Cash generation and conversion
A summary of the consolidated cash flow statement is set out Capital expenditure and financial investment
below.
Cash payments for tangible and intangible fixed assets
2022 2021 amounted to £2,258 million (2021: £2,654 million) and disposals
£m £m
realised £342 million (2021: £773 million). Cash payments to
Total net cash inflow from operating activities 7,403 7,952
acquire equity investments amounted to £143 million (2021:
Total net cash (outflow) from investing
£162 million) and sales of equity investments realised £238
activities (8,772) (1,777)
million (2021: £202 million).
Total net cash inflow/(outflow) from financing
activities 823 (7,589)
Decrease in cash and bank overdrafts (546) (1,414) Free cash flow
Free cash flow is the amount of cash generated by the Group
Cash and bank overdrafts at beginning of year 3,819 5,262
after meeting our obligations for contingent consideration,
Exchange adjustments 152 (29)
interest, tax and dividends paid to non-controlling interests,
Decrease in cash and bank overdrafts (546) (1,414)
and after capital expenditure on property, plant and
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year 3,425 3,819
equipment and intangible assets.
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year
2022 2021(1)
comprise:
£m £m
Cash and cash equivalents 3,723 4,274
Free cash inflow 3,348 3,301
Overdrafts (298) (455)
3,425 3,819 (1) T he 2021 comparative results have been restated on a consistent basis
from those previously published to reflect the demerger of the Consumer
Healthcare business (see page 238).
Reconciliation of net cash inflow from continuing Total cash payments to Shionogi in relation to the ViiV
operating activities to free cash inflow Healthcare contingent consideration liability in the year were
£1,100 million (2021: £826 million), of which £1,031 million was
A reconciliation of net cash inflow from operating activities, recognised in cash flows from operating activities and £69
which is the closest equivalent IFRS measure to free cash flow, million was recognised in contingent consideration paid within
is shown below. investing cash flows. These payments are deductible for tax
purposes.
2022 2021(1)
£m £m
Net cash inflow from continuing operating activities 6,634 6,277 Future cash flow
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (1,143) (950) Over the long term, we expect that future cash generated from
Purchase of intangible assets (1,115) (1,704) operations will be sufficient to fund our operating and debt
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and servicing costs, normal levels of capital expenditure, obligations
equipment 146 132
under existing licensing agreements, expenditure arising from
Proceeds from sale of intangible assets 196 641
restructuring programmes and other routine outflows including
Net finance costs (784) (758) tax, pension contributions and dividends, subject to the
Dividends from joint ventures and associates 6 9 ‘Principal risks and uncertainties’ discussed on pages 285 to
Contingent consideration paid (reported in 295. We may from time to time have additional demands for
investing activities) (79) (114)
finance, such as for acquisitions. We have access to multiple
Contribution from non-controlling interests 8 7 sources of liquidity from short and long-term capital markets
Distributions to non-controlling interests (521) (239) and financial institutions for such needs, in addition to the cash
Free cash inflow 3,348 3,301 flow from operations.
(1) T he 2021 comparative results have been restated on a consistent basis from those
previously published to reflect the demerger of the Consumer Healthcare business Investment appraisal and capital allocation
(see page 238).
We have a strong framework for capital allocation, including
a board to govern the allocation of capital between our
businesses. We utilise a consistent cash return on invested
capital (CROIC) methodology to prioritise investment across
the Group as a whole, so that we can more effectively compare
the returns from each of the businesses as we allocate capital
between them. We also consider the impact on EPS and our
credit profile where relevant.
8687
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
GSK Annual Report 2022
Group financial review continued
Financial position and resources
2022 2021 Property, plant and equipment
£m £m
Our business is science-based, technology-intensive and highly
Assets
regulated by governmental authorities. We allocate significant
Non-current assets
financial resources to the renewal and maintenance of our
Property, plant and equipment 8,933 9,932
property, plant, equipment and vehicles to minimise risks of
Right of use assets 687 740
interruption to production and to ensure compliance with
Goodwill 7,046 10,552
regulatory standards. A number of our processes use
Other intangible assets 14,318 30,079 hazardous materials.
Investments in associates and joint ventures 74 88
The total cost of our property, plant and equipment at 31
Other investments 1,467 2,126
December 2022 was £19,451 million, with a net book value of
Deferred tax assets 5,658 5,218
£8,933 million. Of this, land and buildings represented £3,113
Derivative financial instruments – 18
million, plant, equipment and vehicles £4,012 million and assets
Other non-current assets 1,194 1,676
in construction £1,808 million. In 2022, we invested £1,245
Total non-current assets 39.377 60,429
million in new property, plant and equipment. This was mainly
Current assets related to a large number of projects for the renewal,
Inventories 5,146 5,783 improvement and expansion of facilities at various worldwide
Current tax recoverable 405 486 sites to support new product development and launches as
Trade and other receivables 7,053 7,860 well as to improve the efficiency of existing supply chains.
Derivative financial instruments 190 188 Property is mainly held freehold. New investment is financed
Current equity investments 4,087 – from our liquid resources. At 31 December 2022, we had
Liquid investments 67 61 contractual commitments for future capital expenditure of
£743 million. We believe that our property and plant facilities
Cash and cash equivalents 3,723 4,274
are adequate for our current requirements.
Assets held for sale 98 22
Total current assets 20,769 18,674
Right of use assets
Total assets 60,146 79,103
Right of use assets amounted to £687 million at 31 December
Liabilities
2022 compared with £740 million at 31 December 2021. The
Current liabilities
decrease in the year reflected the impact of depreciation
Short-term borrowings (3,952) (3,601) and transfer to assets held for sale/distribution of £192 million
Contingent consideration liabilities (1,289) (958) and £127 million respectively, disposals and impairments
Trade and other payables (16,263) (17,554) amounting to £75 million, partly offset by additions through
Derivative financial instruments (183) (227) business combinations of £53 million and other additions of
Current tax payable (471) (489) £233 million.
Short-term provisions (652) (841)
Total current liabilities (22,810) (23,670) Goodwill
Non-current liabilities Goodwill decreased to £7,046 million at 31 December 2022,
from £10,552 million primarily as a result of transfer of assets
Long-term borrowings (17,035) (20,572)
held for sale/distribution of £5,183 million for the Consumer
Corporation tax payable (127) (180)
Healthcare demerger partially offset by an increase of £1,127
Deferred tax liabilities (289) (3,556)
million for the acquisitions of Sierra Oncology and Affinivax.
Pensions and other post-employment benefits (2,579) (3,113)
Other provisions (532) (630)
Other intangible assets
Derivative financial instruments – (1)
Contingent consideration liabilities (5,779) (5,118) Other intangible assets include the cost of intangibles
Other non-current liabilities (899) (921) acquired from third parties and computer software. The net
book value of other intangible assets as at 31 December 2022
Total non-current liabilities (27,240) (34,091)
was £14,318 million (2021: £30,079 million). The decrease
Total liabilities (50,050) (57,761)
primarily reflected transfer to assets held for sale/distribution Net assets 10,096 21,342
of £19,957 million, impairment losses, net of reversals and
Total equity 10,096 21,342 amortisation of £1,519 million, offset by additions, net of
disposals, write-offs of £4,047 million and exchange rate gains
of £1,628 million.GSK Annual Report 2022
Group financial review continued
Financial position and resources continued
Investments in associates and joint ventures Trade and other payables
We held investments in associates and joint ventures with a At 31 December 2022, trade and other payables were £16,263
carrying value at 31 December 2022 of £74 million (2021: £88 million compared with £17,554 million at 31 December 2021.
million). See Note 21 to the financial statements, ‘Investments in See Note 29 to the financial statements, ‘Trade and other
associates and joint ventures’ for more details. payables’. The decrease was mainly driven by the Consumer
Healthcare demerger and profit share collaborations offset by
Current equity investments an increase in promotional activity in the regions.
Current equity investments amounted to £4,087 million at 31
December 2022 (2021: £nil). Current equity investments comprise Provisions
equity investments which the Group holds with the intention to sell We carried deferred tax provisions and other short-term and
and which it may sell in the short term. Where acquired with this non-current provisions of £1,473 million at 31 December 2022
intention, they are measured at fair value through the profit and (2021: £5,027 million). Other provisions at the year-end included
loss (FVTPL). They are initially recorded at fair value plus £218 million (2021: £196 million) related to legal and other
transaction costs and then remeasured at subsequent reporting disputes and £351 million (2021: £652 million) related to Major
dates to fair value. Unrealised gains and losses are recognised in restructuring programmes. Provision has been made for legal
the income statement. The investment of £4,087 million (2021: £nil) and other disputes, indemnified disposal liabilities, employee
represents the shares held in Haleon after the demerger. related liabilities and the costs of the restructuring programme
to the extent that at the balance sheet date a legal or
Other investments constructive obligation existed and could be reliably estimated.
We held other investments with a carrying value at 31
December 2022 of £1,467 million (2021: £2,126 million). The most Pensions and other post-employment benefits
significant of these investments held at 31 December 2022 were We account for pension and other post-employment
in Vir Biotechnology and Nimbus Discovery. These investments arrangements in accordance with IAS 19. The net deficits were
had a fair value at 31 December 2022 of £180 million (2021: £1,356 million (2021: £1,129 million) on pension arrangements
£266 million) and £139 million (2021: £32 million) respectively. and £994 million (2021: £1,243 million) on unfunded post-
The other investments included equity stakes in companies with employment liabilities. See Note 31 to the financial statements,
which we have research collaborations, and which provide ‘Pensions and other post-employment benefits’.
access to biotechnology developments of potential interest and
interests in companies that arise from business divestments. Other non-current liabilities
Other non-current liabilities amounted to £899 million at 31
Derivative financial instruments: assets December 2022 (2021: £921 million).
We held current derivative financial assets at fair value of £190
million (2021: £188 million) and non-current derivative financial Contingent consideration liabilities
assets held at fair value of £nil (2021: £18 million). The majority of Contingent consideration amounted to £7,068 million at 31
these financial instruments related to foreign exchange contracts December 2022 (2021: £6,076 million), of which £5,890 million
both designated and not designated as accounting hedges. (2021: £5,559 million) represented the estimated present value of
amounts payable to Shionogi relating to ViiV Healthcare, £501
Inventories million (2021: £nil) represented the estimated present value of
Inventories amounted to £5,146 million (2021: £5,783) at 31 contingent consideration payable to the former shareholders of
December 2022. The decrease was mainly driven by the Affinivax and £673 million (2021: £479 million) represented the
Consumer Healthcare demerger partially offset by vaccines estimated present value of contingent consideration payable to
stock build. Novartis related to the Vaccines acquisition.
The liability due to Shionogi was £263 million in respect of
Trade and other receivables
preferential dividends. An explanation of the accounting for
Trade and other receivables amounted to £7,053 million (2021: the non-controlling interests in ViiV Healthcare is set out on
£7,860 million) at 31 December 2022. The decrease was mainly page 71.
driven by the Consumer Healthcare demerger and lower
Of the total contingent consideration payable (on a post-tax
pandemic adjuvant sales compared to last year.
basis) at 31 December 2022, £940 million (2021: £937 million)
is expected to be paid within one year. The consideration
Deferred tax assets
payable is expected to be paid over a number of years. As a
Deferred tax assets amounted to £5,658 million (2021: £5,218
result, the total estimated liabilities are discounted to their
million) at 31 December 2022.
present values, on a post-tax basis using post-tax discount
rates.
Derivative financial instruments: liabilities
The Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare contingent consideration liability
We held current and non-current derivative financial liabilities
is discounted at 8% and the Novartis Vaccines contingent
at fair value of £183 million (2021: £228 million). This primarily
consideration liability is discounted partly at 7.5% and partly
related to foreign exchange contracts both designated and
at 8.5%.
not designated as accounting hedges.
8889
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
GSK Annual Report 2022
Group financial review continued
Financial position and resources continued
Maturity profile of bond debt
£m equivalent
3,500
3,000
2,500
2,000
1,500
1,000
500
0
2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029 2030 2031 2032 2033 2034 2035 2036 2037 2038 2039 2040 2041 2042 2043 2044 2045
GBP bonds EUR bonds USD bonds
Net debt At 31 December 2022, GSK’s cash and liquid investments were
held as follows:
2022 2021
£m £m 2022 2021
£m £m
Liquid investments 67 61
Bank balances and deposits 1,324 2,825 Cash and cash equivalents 3,723 4,274
US Treasury and Treasury repo only money
Short term borrowings (3,952) (3,601)
market funds 146 54
Long term borrowings (17,035) (20,572)
Liquidity funds 2,253 1,395
Net debt the end of the year (17,197) (19,838)
Cash and cash equivalents 3,723 4,274
Liquid investments – government securities 67 61
At 31 December 2022, net debt was £17.2 billion, compared with
3,790 4,335
£19.8 billion at 31 December 2021, comprising gross debt of
£21.0 billion and cash and liquid investments of £3.8 billion. Net
Cash and liquid investments of £3.1 billion (2021: £2.9 billion) were
debt reduced by £2.6 billion primarily due to £3.3 billion free cash
held centrally at 31 December 2022.
flow from continuing operations, £0.2 billion disposals of equity
The analysis of cash and gross debt after the effects of
investments and £7.2 billion decrease from discontinued
hedging is as follows:
operations as result of demerger primarily reflecting £7.1 billion
of pre-separation dividends attributable to GSK funded by 2022 2021
£m £m
Consumer Healthcare debt. This was partly offset by purchases of
Liquid investments 67 61
businesses of £3.1 billion, net of cash acquired, reflecting the
Cash and cash equivalents 3,723 4,274
acquisitions of Sierra Oncology and Affinivax, dividends paid to
Gross debt – fixed (19,214) (23,167)
shareholders of £3.5 billion, net adverse exchange impacts of
– floating (1,773) (1,006)
£1.4 billion from the translation of non-Sterling denominated debt
Net debt (17,197) (19,838)
and exchange on other financing items and £0.1 billion purchases
of equity investments. Movements in net debt
At 31 December 2022, GSK had short-term borrowings
(including overdrafts and lease liabilities) repayable within 2022 2021
£m £m
12 months of £4.0 billion and £1.9 billion repayable in the
Total net debt at beginning of year (19,838) (20,780)
subsequent year.
Decrease in cash and bank overdrafts (7,597) (2,504)
Decrease in liquid investments (1) (18)
Net decrease in long-term loans 569 –
Net decrease of short-term loans 4,053 2,003
Repayment of lease liabilities 202 181
Debt of subsidiary undertaking acquired (24) –
Exchange adjustments (1,531) 314
Other non-cash movements (207) (134)
Decrease/(increase) in net debt from
continuing operations (4,536) (158)
Decrease/(increase) in net debt from
discontinued operations 7,177 1,100
Total net debt at end of year (17,197) (19,838)GSK Annual Report 2022
Group financial review continued
Financial position and resources continued
Total equity Contractual obligations and commitments
At 31 December 2022, total equity had decreased from Financial commitments are summarised in Note 36 to the
£21,342 million at 31 December 2021 to £10,096 million. financial statements, ‘Commitments’.
A summary of the movements in equity is set out below: The following table sets out our contractual obligations and
2022 2021 commitments at 31 December 2022 as they fall due for
£m £m payment.
Total equity at beginning of year 21,342 20,808
Total comprehensive income for the year 14,790 4,759 Total Under 1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs+
Non-cash distribution to non-controlling interests (2,960) – £m £m £m £m £m
Deconsolidation of former subsidiaries (3,045) – Loans 20,086 3,786 3,213 2,259 10,828
Dividends to shareholders (3,467) (3,999) Interest on loans 6,322 594 1,101 961 3,666
Ordinary shares issued 25 21 Finance lease obligations 1,008 167 328 177 336
Changes in non-controlling interests (20) – Future Finance Charges on
leases 146 25 41 28 52
Non-cash dividends to shareholders (15,526) –
Lease contracts that have
Hedging gain/loss transferred to non-financial
not yet commenced 396 18 42 68 268
assets 9 –
Intangible assets 10,659 317 590 1,616 8,136
Transaction with non-controlling interest – 10
Property, plant &
Share-based incentive plans 357 367
equipment 743 612 131 – –
Tax on share-based incentive plans (8) 11
Investments 138 51 71 13 3
Contributions from non-controlling interests 8 7
Purchase commitments 161 96 61 4 –
Distributions to non-controlling interests (1,409) (642)
Pensions and post-
Total equity at end of year 10,096 21,342 retirement benefits 345 345 – – –
Total 40,004 6,011 5,578 5,126 23,289
Share purchases
Commitments in respect of loans and future interest payable
At 31 December 2022, GSK held 217.1 million shares as Treasury
on loans are disclosed before taking into account the effect of
shares (2021: 284.2 million shares), at a cost of £3,798 million
derivatives.
(2021: £4,969 million), which has been deducted from retained
earnings. We have entered into a number of research collaborations to
develop new compounds with other pharmaceutical
No ordinary shares were repurchased in the period 1 January
companies. The terms of these arrangements can include
2023 to 9 March 2023 and the company does not expect to
upfront fees, equity investments, loans and commitments to
make any ordinary share repurchases in the remainder of 2023.
fund specified levels of research. In addition, we will often
In 2022, 77.1 million Treasury shares were transferred to the agree to make further payments if future ‘milestones’ are
Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) Trusts, of which 50.3 achieved.
million shares were transferred prior to share consolidation.
As some of these agreements relate to compounds in the early
Shares are held by the Trusts to satisfy future exercises of
stages of development, the potential obligation to make
options and awards under the Group share option and award
milestone payments will continue for a number of years if the
schemes.
compounds move successfully through the development
A proportion of the shares held by the Trusts are in respect of process. Generally, the closer the product is to marketing
awards where the rules of the scheme require GSK to satisfy approval, the greater the probability of success. The amounts
exercises through market purchases rather than the issue of shown above within intangible assets represent the maximum
new shares. The shares held by the Trusts are matched to that would be paid if all milestones were achieved. There was a
options and awards granted. decrease in the commitments in 2022 as a result of a reduction
in outstanding loan commitments.
At 31 December 2022, the ESOP Trusts held 59.9 million (2021:
23.3 million) GSK shares against the future exercise of share
options and share awards. The carrying value of £353 million
(2021: £27 million) has been deducted from other reserves.
The market value of these shares was £861 million (2021:
£371 million).
9091
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
GSK Annual Report 2022
Group financial review continued
Financial position and resources continued
In connection with the demerger of Consumer Healthcare, the In the normal course of business, we have provided various
31 December 2020 pension scheme valuations identified cash indemnification guarantees in respect of business disposals
funding or technical provisions deficits in three GSK UK Pension in which legal and other disputes have subsequently arisen. A
Schemes. Scottish limited partnerships (“SLPs”) were provision is made where an outflow of resources is considered
established to provide a funding mechanism for each of GSK’s probable and a reliable estimate can be made of the likely
UK defined benefit pension schemes. The SLPs together hold outcome of the dispute and this is included in Note 32 to the
shares representing 7.5% of the total issued share capital of financial statements, ‘Other provisions’.
Haleon.
We provide for the outcome of tax, legal and other disputes
Each pension scheme, through its SLP interest, is entitled to when an outflow of resources is considered probable and a
receive a distribution from that SLP in an amount equal to the reliable estimate of the outflow may be made. At 31 December
net proceeds of sales of Haleon shares, and to receive 2022, other than for those disputes where provision has been
dividend income on Haleon shares, until it has received an made, it was not possible to make a reliable estimate of the
aggregate amount equal to an agreed threshold (“Proceeds potential outflow of funds that might be required to settle
Threshold”). The Proceeds Thresholds total £1,080 million (as disputes where the possibility of there being an outflow was
increased by notional interest on the remaining balance from more than remote.
time to time), and payment of this amount would fully fund the
The ultimate liability for such matters may vary significantly
cash funding or technical provisions deficits in the three from the amounts provided and is dependent upon
schemes shown by the 31 December 2020 valuations. Once the
negotiations with the relevant tax authorities and the outcome
Proceeds Threshold has been reached the GSK-controlled
of litigation proceedings, where relevant. This is discussed
General Partner of each SLP is entitled to sell the remaining
further in ‘Principal risks and uncertainties’ on pages 285 to
Haleon shares held by the SLP and distribute the proceeds to
295 and Note 47 to the financial statements, ‘Legal
GSK. As at 31 December 2022, £345 million remains
proceedings’.
outstanding to the UK Pension Trustees.
Contingent liabilities
Other contingent liabilities are set out in Note 35 to the
financial statements, ‘Contingent liabilities’.
The following table sets out contingent liabilities, comprising
performance guarantees, letters of credit and other items
arising in the normal course of business, and when they are
expected to expire.
Total Under 1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs+
£m £m £m £m £m
Guarantees 12 8 3 – 1
Other contingent
liabilities 46 10 – 11 25
Total 58 18 3 11 26GSK Annual Report 2022
Group financial review continued
Approach to tax
Business makes a major contribution to the public purse We seek to maintain open and constructive relationships with
through its tax contribution. This includes direct taxes (such as tax authorities worldwide, meeting regularly to discuss our tax
corporate income tax) and indirect taxes (such as VAT and affairs and real time business updates wherever possible.
customs duties) as well as other taxes (such as employment
We also monitor government debate on tax policy in our key
taxes and property taxes). It is therefore important that
jurisdictions so that we can understand and share an informed
companies explain their approach to tax. This helps inform
point of view regarding any potential future changes in tax law.
dialogue about tax and tax policy.
Where relevant, we provide pragmatic and constructive
We are supportive of efforts to ensure companies are business input to tax policy makers either directly or through
appropriately transparent about how their tax affairs are industry trade bodies, advocating reform to support economic
managed. As part of that, our Tax Strategy is set out in detail growth and job creation as well as the needs of our patients
within the Public policies section of our website. and other key stakeholders.
We support the exchange of country-by-country reporting In 2022, the Group corporate tax charge was £707 million
(CBCR) data between tax authorities as, validated against (2021(1): £83 million) on profits before tax of £5,628 million
existing information held on taxpayers, it will support their (2021(1): £3,599 million) representing an effective tax rate of
ability to ensure multinational groups pay the right amount 12.6% (2021(1): 2.3%). We made cash tax payments of £1,310
of tax in the right places. million in the year (2021(1): £972 million). In addition to the taxes
we pay on our profits, we pay duties, levies, transactional and
As a global biopharmaceutical company, we have a
employment taxes.
substantial business and employment presence in many
countries around the world and pay a significant amount of Our Adjusted tax rate for 2022 was 15.5% (2021(1): 15.9%).
tax. This includes corporate income tax and other business The rate has benefited from the closure of open issues with
taxes, and tax associated with our employees. We also collect tax authorities in various jurisdictions. Subject to any material
a significant amount of tax on behalf of governments along changes in our product mix, or other material changes in tax
our supply chain, including from our employees. regulations or laws in the countries in which we operate, the
Group’s average effective Adjusted tax rate for 2023 is
We are subject to taxation throughout our supply chain.
expected to be around 15%.
The worldwide nature of our operations means that our
cross-border supply routes, necessary to ensure supplies of The Group’s Total tax rate for 2022 of 12.6% (2021(1): 2.3%) was
medicines into numerous countries, can result in conflicting lower than the Adjusted tax rate reflecting the different tax
claims from tax authorities as to the profits to be taxed in effects of various Adjusting items.
individual countries. This can lead to double taxation (with
The UK Government has confirmed that the Spring Finance Bill
profits taxed in more than one country).
2023 will include legislation introducing a 15% global minimum
Profits are recognised in territories by reference to the activities corporate income tax rate, to have effect from 2024. The detail
performed there and the value they generate. To ensure the of the measures and how they are to be accounted for is still
profits recognised in jurisdictions are aligned to the activity being finalised and so it is not possible to accurately quantify
undertaken there, and in line with current OECD guidelines, we the impact for GSK at this stage.
base our transfer pricing policy on the arm’s length principle
Further details about our corporate tax charges for the year
and support our transfer prices with economic analysis and
are set out in Note 14.
reports.
(1) T he 2021 comparative results have been restated on a consistent basis
We do not engage in artificial tax arrangements – those
from those previously published to reflect the demerger of the Consumer
without business or commercial substance. We do not seek to Healthcare business (see page 238).
avoid tax by the use of ‘tax havens’ or transactions we would
not fully disclose to a tax authority. We have a zero-tolerance
approach to tax evasion and the facilitation of tax evasion.
Tax risk in all countries in which we operate is managed
through robust internal policies, processes, training and
compliance programmes. Our Board of Directors and the
Audit & Risk Committee are responsible for approving our tax
policies and risk management arrangements as part of our
wider internal control framework.
9293
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
GSK Annual Report 2022
Group financial review continued
Treasury policies
We report in Sterling and pay dividends out of Sterling cash Interest rate risk management
flows. The role of Treasury is to monitor and manage the
GSK’s objective is to minimise the effective net interest cost
Group’s external and internal funding requirements and
and to balance the mix of debt at fixed and floating interest
financial risks in support of our strategic objectives. GSK
rates over time. The policy on interest rate risk management
operates on a global basis, primarily through subsidiary
limits the net amount of floating rate debt to a specific cap,
companies, and we manage our capital to ensure that our
reviewed and agreed no less than annually by the Board.
subsidiaries are able to operate as going concerns and to
optimise returns to shareholders through an appropriate
Foreign exchange risk management
balance of debt and equity. Treasury activities are governed
Our objective is to minimise the exposure of overseas operating
by policies approved annually by the Board of Directors, and
subsidiaries to transaction risk by matching local currency
most recently on 12 October 2022. A Treasury Management
income with local currency costs where possible. Foreign
Group (TMG) meeting, chaired by our Chief Financial Officer,
currency transaction exposures arising on external and internal
takes place on a regular basis to review Treasury activities. Its
trade flows are selectively hedged. GSK’s internal trading
members receive management information relating to these
transactions are matched centrally and we manage
activities.
inter-company payment terms to reduce foreign currency risk.
Where possible, we manage the cash surpluses or borrowing
Treasury operations
requirements of subsidiary companies centrally using forward
The objective of GSK’s Treasury activities is to minimise the
contracts to hedge future repayments back into the originating
post-tax net cost of financial operations and reduce its
currency.
volatility in order to benefit earnings and cash flows. GSK uses
a variety of financial instruments to finance its operations and In order to reduce foreign currency translation exposure, we
derivative financial instruments to manage market risks from seek to denominate borrowings in the currencies of our
these operations. Derivatives principally comprise foreign principal assets and cash flows. These are primarily
exchange forward contracts and swaps which are used to denominated in US Dollars, Euros and Sterling.
swap borrowings and liquid assets into currencies required for Borrowings can be swapped into other currencies as required.
Group purposes, as well as interest rate swaps which are used Borrowings denominated in, or swapped into, foreign
to manage exposure to financial risks from changes in interest currencies that match investments in overseas Group assets
rates. may be treated as a hedge against the relevant assets.
Derivatives are used exclusively for hedging purposes in Forward contracts in major currencies are also used to reduce
relation to underlying business activities and not as trading or exposure to the Group’s investment in overseas Group assets.
speculative instruments. The TMG reviews the ratio of borrowings to assets for major
currencies regularly.
Capital management
Commodity risk management
GSK’s financial strategy, implemented through the Group’s
financial architecture, supports GSK’s strategic priorities and is Our objective is to minimise income statement volatility arising
regularly reviewed by the Board. We manage the capital from fluctuations in commodity prices, where practical and
structure of the Group through an appropriate mix of debt and cost effective to do so. The TMG is authorised to approve the
equity. We continue to manage our financial policies to a execution of certain financial derivatives to hedge commodity
credit profile that particularly targets short-term credit ratings price exposures.
of A-1 and P-1 while maintaining single A long-term ratings
Counterparty risk management
consistent with those targets.
We set global counterparty limits for each of our banking and
GSK’s long-term credit rating with Standard and Poor’s is A
investment counterparties based on long-term credit ratings
(stable outlook) and with Moody’s Investor Services (‘Moody’s’)
from Moody’s and Standard and Poor’s. Usage of these limits is
is A2 (stable outlook). Our short-term credit ratings are A-1 and
actively monitored and any breach of these limits would be
P-1 with Standard and Poor’s and Moody’s respectively.
reported to the Chief Financial Officer immediately.
Liquidity risk management In addition, relationship banks and their credit ratings are
GSK’s policy is to borrow centrally in order to meet anticipated reviewed regularly so that, when changes in ratings occur,
funding requirements. Our cash flow forecasts and funding changes can be made to investment levels or to authority limits
requirements are monitored by the TMG on a regular basis. as appropriate. All banking counterparty limits are reviewed at
Our strategy is to diversify liquidity sources using a range of least annually.
facilities and to maintain broad access to financial markets.
Each day, we sweep cash to or from number of global
subsidiaries to central Treasury accounts for liquidity
management purposes.GSK Annual Report 2022
Group financial review continued
Critical accounting policies
The Group consolidated financial statements have been – The US Medicaid programme is a state-administered
prepared in accordance with international accounting programme providing assistance to certain poor and
standards in conformity with the requirements of the vulnerable patients. In 1990, the Medicaid Drug Rebate
Companies Act 2006 and the International Financial Program was established to reduce state and federal
Reporting Standards (IFRS) as issued by the International expenditure on prescription drugs. In 2010, the Patient
Accounting Standard Board (IASB). Protection and Affordable Care Act became law. We
participate by providing rebates to states. Accruals for
We are required to make estimates and assumptions that
Medicaid rebates are calculated based on the specific
affect the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses
terms of the relevant regulations or the Patient Protection
reported in the financial statements. Actual amounts and
and Affordable Care Act
results could differ from those estimates.
– Cash discounts are offered to customers to encourage
The critical accounting policies relate to the following areas:
prompt payment. These are accrued for at the time of
– Turnover invoicing and adjusted subsequently to reflect actual
– Taxation (Note 14) experience
– Legal and other disputes (Notes 47) – We record an accrual for estimated sales returns by
applying historical experience of customer returns to the
– Contingent liabilities (Note 35)
amounts invoiced, together with market-related information
– Pensions and other post-employment benefits (Note 31)
such as stock levels at wholesalers, anticipated price
Information on the judgements and estimates made in these increases and competitor activity
areas is given in Note 3 to the financial statements, ‘Critical
A reconciliation of gross turnover to net turnover for US
accounting judgements and key sources of estimation
Commercial Operations is as follows:
uncertainty’.
2022 2021 2020
Turnover Margin Margin Margin
£m % £m % £m %
In respect of the Turnover accounting policy, our largest Gross turnover 29,814 100 24,432 100 24,570 100
business is US Commercial Operations, and the US market has
the most complex arrangements for rebates, discounts and Market-driven
segments (8,275) (28) (6,875) (28) (7,004) (29)
allowances. The following briefly describes the nature of the
Government
arrangements in existence in our US Commercial Operations:
mandated and
– We have arrangements with certain indirect customers state programmes (6,218) (21) (5,134) (21) (5,710) (23)
whereby the customer is able to buy products from Cash discounts (536) (2) (438) (2) (453) (2)
wholesalers at reduced prices. A chargeback represents Customer returns (255) (1) (253) (1) (235) (1)
the difference between the invoice price to the wholesaler Prior year
and the indirect customer’s contractual discounted price. adjustments 780 3 855 4 540 2
Accruals for estimating chargebacks are calculated based Other items (768) (2) (673) (3) (560) (2)
on the terms of each agreement, historical experience and
Total deductions (15,272) (51) (12,518) (51) (13,422) (55)
product growth rates
Net turnover 14,542 49 11,914 49 11,148 45
– Customer rebates are offered to key managed care and Group
Purchasing Organisations and other direct and indirect The reconciliation has been revised to include Vaccines as part
customers. These arrangements require the customer to of US Commercial Operations in all years.
achieve certain performance targets relating to the value of
Market-driven segments consist primarily of managed care
product purchased, formulary status or pre-determined market
and Medicare plans with which we negotiate contract pricing
shares relative to competitors. The accrual for customer rebates
that is honoured via rebates and chargebacks. Mandated
is estimated based on the specific terms in each agreement,
segments consist primarily of Medicaid and federal
historical experience and product growth rates
government programmes which receive government-
mandated pricing via rebates and chargebacks.
9495
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
GSK Annual Report 2022
Group financial review continued
Critical accounting policies continued
Overall sales deduction as a percentage of sales is consistent We may become involved in significant legal proceedings, in
year over year with sales growth coming primarily from Trelegy respect of which it is not possible to meaningfully assess
and Specialty Products including ViiV. Deductions within the whether the outcome will result in a probable outflow, or to
year were split approximately as follows: General Medicines quantify or reliably estimate the liability, if any, that could result
70%, Specialty Medicines 20% and Vaccines 10%. from ultimate resolution of the proceedings. In these cases,
appropriate disclosure about such cases would be included in
At 31 December 2022, the total accrual for rebates, discounts,
the Annual Report, but no provision would be made. allowances and returns for US Commercial Operations
amounted to £5,855 million (2021: £5,044 million). This position could change over time and, therefore, there can
be no assurance that any losses that result from the outcome
A monthly process is operated to monitor inventory levels at
of any legal proceedings will not exceed by a material amount
wholesalers for any abnormal movements. This process uses
the amount of the provisions reported in the Group’s financial
gross sales volumes, prescription volumes based on third party
statements.
data sources and information received from key wholesalers.
The aim of this is to maintain inventories at a consistent level Like many pharmaceutical companies, we are faced with
from year to year based on the pattern of consumption. various complex product liability, anti-trust and patent
litigation, as well as investigations of our operations conducted
On this basis, US Commercial Operations inventory levels at
by various governmental regulatory agencies. Throughout the
wholesalers and in other distribution channels at 31 December
year, the General Counsel of the Group, as head of the Group’s
2022 were estimated to amount to approximately four weeks
legal function, and the Senior Vice President and Head of
of turnover. This calculation uses third party information, the
Global Litigation for the Group, who is responsible for all
accuracy of which cannot be totally verified, but is believed to
litigation and government investigations, routinely brief the
be sufficiently reliable for this purpose.
Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the
Board of Directors on the significant litigation pending against
Legal and other disputes
the Group and governmental investigations of the Group.
In respect of the accounting policy for Legal and other
disputes, the following briefly describes the process by which These meetings, as appropriate, detail the status of significant
we determine the level of provision that is necessary. litigation and government investigations and review matters
such as the number of claims notified to us, information on
In accordance with the requirements of IAS 37, ‘Provisions,
potential claims not yet notified, assessment of the validity of
contingent liabilities and contingent assets’, we provide for
claims, progress made in settling claims, recent settlement
anticipated settlement costs where an outflow of resources is
levels and potential reimbursement by insurers.
considered probable and a reliable estimate may be made of
the likely outcome of the dispute and legal and other expenses The meetings also include an assessment of whether or not
arising from claims against the Group. there is sufficient information available for us to be able to
make a reliable estimate of the potential outcomes of the
disputes. Often, external counsel assisting us with various
litigation matters and investigations will also assist in the
briefing of the Board and senior management. Following these
discussions, for those matters where it is possible to make a
reliable estimate of the amount of a provision, if any, that may
be required, the level of provision for legal and other disputes is
reviewed and adjusted as appropriate. These matters are
discussed further in Note 47 to the financial statements, ‘Legal
proceedings’.
Strategic report
The Strategic report was approved by the Board of Directors on
9 March 2023
Iain Mackay
Chief Financial Officer
9 March 2023GSK Annual Report 2022
Corporate
governance
In this section
The Board and GSK Leadership Team 97
Chair’s governance statement 103
Corporate governance architecture 107
Ahead Together – Board oversight 110
Key decisions and engagements 112
Board committee reports 117
Directors’ report 130
9697
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
GSK Annual Report 2022
The Board
Sir Jonathan Symonds, CBE Skills and experience
Non-Executive Chair Jon has extensive international financial, life sciences and governance experience.
Jon served as an Independent Non-Executive Director of HSBC Holdings plc from April 2014,
Age: 64
and as Deputy Group Chairman from August 2018, until his retirement from the Board in
Nationality: British
February 2020. He was previously Chairman of HSBC Bank plc, Chief Financial Officer of
Appointed: 1 September 2019 Novartis AG, Partner and Managing Director of Goldman Sachs, Chief Financial Officer of
AstraZeneca plc, and a Partner at KPMG. His governance experience includes roles as
N
Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Audit Committees of Diageo plc and QinetiQ
Group plc, Non-Executive Chair of Proteus Digital Health Inc and Non-Executive Director of
Rubius Therapeutics, Inc.
Jon is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
External appointments
Non-Executive Director, Genomics England Limited having previously served as its Chairman;
Non-Executive Chair, Energy Aspects; Member, European Round Table for Industry; Senior
Advisor to Chatham House.
Dame Emma Walmsley Skills and experience
Chief Executive Officer Prior to her appointment as GSK’s CEO, Emma was the CEO of GSK Consumer Healthcare, a
Joint Venture between GSK and Novartis, from its creation in March 2015. Emma joined GSK in
Age: 53 2010 from L’Oreal, having worked for 17 years in a variety of roles in Paris, London, New York and
Nationality: British Shanghai. Emma was previously a Non-Executive Director of Diageo plc.
Appointed: 1 January 2017 Emma holds an MA in Classics and Modern Languages from Oxford University.
Chief Executive Officer from
External appointments
1 April 2017
Independent director, Microsoft, Inc.
Iain Mackay Skills and experience
Chief Financial Officer Prior to joining GSK, Iain was Group Finance Director at HSBC Holdings plc, a position he held
for eight years. A chartered accountant, Iain has lived and worked in Asia, the US and Europe
Age: 61 and before HSBC was at General Electric, Schlumberger Dowell and Price Waterhouse. Iain was
Nationality: British previously a Trustee of the British Heart Foundation and Chair of its Audit and Risk Committee.
Appointed: 14 January 2019 Iain holds an MA in Business Studies and Accounting and holds an Honorary Doctorate from
Chief Financial Officer from Aberdeen University in Scotland.
1 April 2019
Iain is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
Iain will step down as CFO and Executive Director on 1 May 2023. He will continue as an
employee and leave the company on 31 December 2023.
External appointments
Non-Executive Director, Chair of Audit & Risk Committee and member of Remuneration
Committee, National Grid plc; Member, Court of the University of Aberdeen and Chair of its
Remuneration Committee; Member, The 100 Group and Chair of its Stakeholder
Communications and Reporting Committee.
Elizabeth (Liz) McKee Anderson Skills and experience
Independent Non-Executive Director Liz brings significant experience in commercial biopharmaceuticals and is a seasoned
biotech board member. Her significant experience in commercial biopharmaceuticals, both
Age: 65 operationally and at Board level, as well as her deep understanding of the biotechnology sector
Nationality: American are invaluable to GSK as a pure biopharma company.
Appointed: 1 September 2022
Prior to her current roles, Liz served as Worldwide Vice President and commercial leader in
A R infectious diseases and vaccines and also for immunology and oncology at Janssen
Pharmaceuticals, and as Vice President and General Manager at Wyeth Vaccines. Liz was also
previously a Board member of Bavarian Nordic A/S and of Huntsworth Plc.
External appointments
Board Member, BioMarin Pharmaceutical, Inc; Board Member, Revolution Medicines, Inc; Board
Member, Insmed, Inc; Trustee, The Wistar Institute; Director, Aro Biotherapeutics Company.
Key Committee Chair C Corporate Responsibility S Science N Nominations & Corporate Governance A Audit & Risk R RemunerationGSK Annual Report 2022
The Board continued
Charles Bancroft Skills and experience
Senior Independent Non-Executive Charlie has a wealth of financial and management experience in global biopharma.
Director Charlie retired from a successful career at Bristol Myers Squibb (BMS) in March 2020 where he
held a number of leadership roles in commercial, strategy and finance. Beginning his career at
Age: 63 BMS in 1984, he held positions of increasing responsibility within the finance organisation and
Nationality: American had commercial operational responsibility for Latin America, Middle East, Africa, Canada,
Appointed: 1 May 2020 Japan and several Pacific Rim countries. He was appointed Chief Financial Officer in 2010,
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President, Global Business Operations in 2016 and
from 18 July 2022 Executive Vice President and Head of Integration and Strategy & Business Development in 2019.
Charlie successfully steered BMS through a period of strategic transformation, including its $74
A N R billion acquisition of Celgene. Charlie also served as a member of the Board of Colgate-
Palmolive Company from 2017 until March 2020.
External appointments
Board Member, Kodiak Sciences Inc; Board Member, BioVector Inc; Advisory Board Member,
Drexel University’s LeBow College of Business.
The Board determined that Charlie has recent and relevant financial experience and agreed that
he has the appropriate qualifications and background to be an audit committee financial expert.
Dr Hal Barron Skills and experience
Non-Executive Director Hal joined GSK in 2018 as Chief Scientific Officer and President, R&D. On 1 August 2022, he
transitioned to the role of Non-Executive Director, with additional responsibilities to support R&D.
Age: 60
Prior to joining GSK, Hal was President, R&D at Calico LLC (California Life Company), an
Nationality: American
Alphabet-funded company that uses advanced technologies to increase understanding of
Appointed: 1 January 2018
lifespan biology. Prior to this, Hal was Executive Vice President, Head of Global Product
Chief Scientific Officer and
Development, and Chief Medical Officer of Roche, responsible for all the products in the
President, R&D from 1 April 2018
combined portfolio of Roche and Genentech. At Genentech, he was Senior Vice President of
Transitioned to the role of Non-Executive
Development and Chief Medical Officer. Hal was a Non-Executive Director and Chair of the
Director on 1 August 2022 Science & Technology Committee at Juno Therapeutics, Inc until March 2018, when it was
acquired by Celgene Corporation. Hal previously served as a Non-Executive Board Director of
S
GRAIL, Inc and an Advisory Board Member of Verily Life Sciences LLC.
External appointments
CEO and Board Co-Chair, Altos Labs Inc; Associate Adjunct Professor, Epidemiology &
Biostatistics, University of California, San Francisco.
Dr Anne Beal Skills and experience
Independent Non-Executive Director Anne brings extensive healthcare experience to the Board as a physician and entrepreneur
combined with a passion for patient advocacy. She is a recognised health policy expert in the
Age: 60 development of global and national programmes for improving healthcare access for all
Nationality: American patient groups and in ensuring the voice of patients is reflected in research programmes.
Appointed: 6 May 2021 Prior to her current roles, Anne spent six years at Harvard Medical School and Massachusetts
General Hospital, where she was an instructor in paediatrics. She has also held leadership roles
C N R
at the Commonwealth Fund and the Aetna Foundation. Anne was previously Deputy Executive
Director and Chief Engagement Officer for The Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute
in the US and Chief Patient Officer and Global Head of Patient Solutions at Sanofi.
External appointments
Founder and CEO, AbsoluteJOI Skincare; Board Member, AcademyHealth; Board Member,
Prolacta Bioscience.
Key Committee Chair C Corporate Responsibility S Science N Nominations & Corporate Governance A Audit & Risk R Remuneration
9899
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
GSK Annual Report 2022
The Board continued
Dr Harry (Hal) C Dietz Skills and experience
Independent Non-Executive Director Hal brings extensive experience in the field of human genetics which is central to GSK’s
approach to R&D. He is a former President of the American Society of Human Genetics and is
and Scientific & Medical Expert
recognised as the world’s leading authority on a genetic disorder known as Marfan Syndrome.
Age: 64 He also brings experience in development of novel therapies, in particular in relation to
Nationality: American disease-modifying treatments for fibrotic and neurodegenerative diseases. In total, Hal has
authored 282 original publications in peer-reviewed journals across his career.
Appointed: 1 January 2022
As a physician scientist, he has dedicated his entire career to the care and study of individuals
S
with heritable connective tissue disorders with primary perturbations of extracellular matrix
homeostasis and function. His lab has identified the genes for many of these conditions, for
which he uses model systems to elucidate disease mechanisms.
Hal has received multiple prestigious awards including the Curt Stern Award from the
American Society of Human Genetics, the Colonel Harland Sanders Lifetime Achievement
Award in Medical Genetics, the Taubman Prize for excellence in translational medical science,
the Harrington Prize from the American Society for Clinical Investigation and the Harrington
Discovery Institute, the Pasarow Award in Cardiovascular Research, the InBev-Baillet Latour
Health Prize from the country of Belgium, and the Research Achievement Award from the
American Heart Association.
He is an inductee of the American Society for Clinical Investigation, American Association
for the Advancement of Science, Association of American Physicians, National Academy of
Medicine, and National Academy of Sciences.
External appointments
Victor A. McKusick Professor of Paediatrics, Medicine, and Molecular Biology & Genetics
in the Department of Genetic Medicine, The Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine;
Investigator, Howard Hughes Medical Institute; Consultant and Chair of Scientific Advisory
Board, Aytu Biopharma; Independent Chair, GSK’s Human Genetics Scientific Advisory Board;
founded and previously Scientific Adviser to Blade Therapeutics.
Dr Jesse Goodman Skills and experience
Independent Non-Executive Director Jesse brings scientific and public health expertise to the Board’s deliberations. He has a wealth
of experience spanning science, medicine, vaccines, regulation and public health, and has a
and Scientific & Medical Expert
proven record in addressing pressing public health needs from both the academic and federal
Age: 71 sectors.
Nationality: American Jesse previously served in senior leadership positions at the US Food and Drug Administration
Appointed: 1 January 2016 (FDA), including most recently as the FDA’s Chief Scientist and previously as Deputy
Commissioner for Science and Public Health and as Director of the Center for Biologics
S C Evaluation and Research (CBER).
Jesse played a leadership role in developing the FDA’s Regulatory Science and Medical
Countermeasures Initiatives and has worked collaboratively with industry, academia,
government and global public health and regulatory partners to prepare for and respond to
major public health threats, including emerging infectious diseases, disasters and terrorism. He
led the FDA’s response to West Nile Virus and to the 2009 H1N1 influenza pandemic and served
on the Senior Leadership Team for the 2010 White House Medical Countermeasure Review.
Jesse was previously a member of both the Scientific Advisory Committee and the Regulatory
and Legal Working Group of the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI).
External appointments
Professor of Medicine and Attending Physician, Infectious Diseases, Georgetown University and
directs the Georgetown University Center on Medical Product Access, Safety and Stewardship
(COMPASS); Board Member (formerly President), United States Pharmacopeia (USP); Board
Member, Scientific Counselors for Infectious Diseases, Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention (CDC); Board Member, Intellia Therapeutics Inc; Member, US National Academy of
Medicine; Board Member, Adaptive Phage Therapeutics, Inc.
Key Committee Chair C Corporate Responsibility S Science N Nominations & Corporate Governance A Audit & Risk R RemunerationGSK Annual Report 2022
The Board continued
Urs Rohner Skills and experience
Independent Non-Executive Director Urs has a broad business, banking and legal background and extensive senior level
experience at multinational companies.
Age: 63
Urs has served as Chairman on a number of Boards, most recently for Credit Suisse Group
Nationality: Swiss
from 2011 until April 2021. Prior to joining Credit Suisse in 2004, Urs served as Chairman of the
Appointed: 1 January 2015
Executive Board and CEO of ProSieben and ProSiebenSat.1 Media AG. This followed a number
of years in private practice at major law firms in Switzerland and the US, having been
R A N
admitted to the bars of the canton of Zurich in Switzerland in 1986 and the state of New York
in the US in 1990.
External appointments
Member, International Advisory Board, Investcorp; Chair, Vega Cyber Associates AG.
Dr Vishal Sikka Skills and experience
Independent Non-Executive Director Vishal has a distinguished background in technology and particularly in the field of Artificial
Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning, which is central to GSK’s approach to R&D. He is the
Age: 55 founder and CEO of Vianai Systems, Inc, a Silicon Valley-based company that provides
Nationality: American advanced technological software and services in AI and Machine Learning to large
Appointed: 18 July 2022 enterprises around the world.
Prior to founding Vianai Systems, Vishal served as CEO of Infosys Limited and as a member of
C
the Executive Board of SAP SE. Vishal has a PhD in Artificial Intelligence from Stanford
University and has co-authored several research abstracts related to AI, technology and
database management.
External appointments
Founder and CEO, Vianai Systems, Inc; Board Member, Oracle Corporation; Member,
Supervisory Board, BMW AG.
Key Committee Chair C Corporate Responsibility S Science N Nominations & Corporate Governance A Audit & Risk R Remuneration
Directors departing during 2022
Manvinder Singh (Vindi) Banga 1 Sept 2016 to July 2022
Retired from the Board on appointment to the Haleon plc Board effective on demerger
Dame Vivienne Cox 1 July 2016 to 18 July 2022
Lynn Elsenhans 1 July 2012 to 18 July 2022 Retired from the Board after nine years of service
Dr Laurie Glimcher 1 Sept 2017 to 10 Oct 2022 Retired from the Board after over five years of service
100101
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
GSK Annual Report 2022
GSK Leadership Team (GLT)
Skills and experience
Emma Walmsley Emma joined GSK in 2010 and the GLT in 2011. See Board biographies on pages 97 to 100.
Chief Executive Officer
Iain Mackay1 Iain joined GSK and the GLT in 2019. See Board biographies on pages 97 to 100.
Chief Financial Officer
Diana Conrad Diana was appointed Chief People Officer and member of the GLT in April 2019. She was
Chief People Officer previously Senior Vice President, HR, Pharmaceuticals R&D from 2016 where she played a key
strategic role as leader of the R&D people and culture agenda to support its transformation.
Diana joined GSK Canada’s HR team in 2000 where she held several roles of increasing
responsibility before becoming Senior Vice President, HR for Consumer Healthcare in 2009.
Prior to joining GSK, she held HR roles in companies including GE Capital, Gennum
Corporation and Zenon Environmental Laboratories. Diana has an Honours Bachelor of Arts
from McMaster University in Canada.
James Ford James joined the GLT in 2018, when he was appointed Senior Vice President and Group
SVP and Group General Counsel, General Counsel, later taking responsibility for Compliance, Corporate Security and
Investigations in 2021. He joined GSK in 1995 and has served as General Counsel Consumer
Legal and Compliance
Healthcare, General Counsel Global Pharmaceuticals, Vice President of Corporate Legal
and was Acting Head of Global Ethics and Compliance. Prior to GSK, James was a solicitor
at Clifford Chance and DLA. He holds a law degree from the University of East Anglia and a
Diploma in Competition Law from King's College. He is qualified as a solicitor in England
and Wales and is an attorney at the New York State Bar. James is based in London and has
practised law and lived in the US, Singapore and Hong Kong. James was co-chair of the
US-based Civil Justice Reform Group 2019-2022, and is a director of the European General
Counsel Association and the Association of Corporate Counsel.
Sally Jackson Sally joined the GLT in March 2019 as Senior Vice President, Global Communications and CEO
SVP, Global Communications Office. She leads our Communications and Government Affairs function globally and is also
the CEO’s Chief of Staff.
and CEO Office
Prior to this, Sally was Senior Vice President, Office of the CEO and CFO and she previously
served as Head of Investor Relations. She joined GSK in 2001.
Sally holds a degree in Natural Sciences from the University of Cambridge.
Luke Miels Luke joined GSK and the GLT in 2017. As Chief Commercial Officer he is responsible for our
Chief Commercial Officer commercial portfolio of medicines and vaccines. Luke also co-chairs the Portfolio Investment
Board with Tony Wood and is a member of the ViiV Healthcare Board. Outside of GSK, Luke is
a member of the Singapore Economic Development Board.
He previously worked for AstraZeneca as Executive Vice President of their European business
and, prior to that, was Executive Vice President of Global Product and Portfolio Strategy,
Global Medical Affairs and Corporate Affairs. Before that, he was head of Asia for Roche,
based in Shanghai and then Singapore. Prior to that he held roles of increasing seniority at
Roche and Sanofi-Aventis in the US, Europe and Asia.
Luke holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Biology from Flinders University in Adelaide and a
MBA from the Macquarie University, Sydney.
Shobie Ramakrishnan Shobie joined the GLT in 2021 when she was appointed Chief Digital and Technology Officer.
Chief Digital and Technology Officer She joined GSK in 2018 and has deep and broad experience in both biotech and hi-tech
companies and, most recently, has led Digital and Technology for GSK’s Global Commercial
organisation, transforming the company’s capabilities in digital, data and analytics and
playing a pivotal role in establishing a more agile commercial operating model. Before joining
GSK, Shobie held senior technology leadership roles in organisations including AstraZeneca,
Salesforce, Genentech and Roche. She is a former member of the board of directors at
Remediant and is a member of the board of directors at SustainableIT.org.
Shobie holds a Bachelor’s degree in Electronics Engineering from Vellore Institute of
Technology, University of Madras, India.
1 Iain Mackay will step down from the Board and GLT from 2023. He will be succeeded as CFO by Julie Brown.GSK Annual Report 2022
GSK Leadership Team continued
Skills and experience
David Redfern David joined the GLT as Chief Strategy Officer in 2008 and is responsible for corporate
President, Corporate Development development and strategic planning. Previously, he was Senior Vice President, Northern
Europe with responsibility for GSK’s pharmaceutical businesses in that region and, before that,
he was Senior Vice President for Central and Eastern Europe. He joined GSK in 1994. David was
appointed Chairman of the Board of ViiV Healthcare Limited in 2011 and a Non-Executive
Director of the Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Limited Board in 2015.
He has a Bachelor of Science degree from Bristol University and is a Chartered Accountant.
Regis Simard Regis joined the GLT in 2018, when he became President, Pharmaceuticals Supply Chain.
President, Global Supply Chain He is responsible for the manufacturing and supply of GSK’s medicines and vaccines. In
addition, he leads Quality and Environment, Health, Safety and Sustainability at a corporate
level. Regis joined GSK in 2005 as a Site Director in France, rising to become Senior Vice
President of Global Pharmaceuticals Manufacturing before his current role. Previously, he held
senior positions at Sony, Konica Minolta and Tyco Healthcare. He is a member of the Board of
ViiV Healthcare.
He is a mechanical engineer and holds an MBA.
Phil Thomson Phil joined the GLT in 2011. He was appointed President, Global Affairs in 2017, and has
President, Global Affairs responsibility for the Group’s strategic approach to stakeholder engagement, reputation
and policy development. Previously, Phil was Senior Vice President, Communications and
Government Affairs. He joined Glaxo Wellcome as a commercial trainee in 1996.
Phil is also Chair of The Whitehall & Industry Group and holds a degree in English, History
and Russian Studies from Durham University.
Deborah Waterhouse Deborah was appointed to the GLT in January 2020. She became Chief Executive Officer of
CEO, ViiV Healthcare and President, ViiV Healthcare in April 2017. In addition to ViiV, Deborah also leads GSK’s Global Health
organisation.
GSK Global Health
Deborah joined GSK in 1996 and, prior to ViiV, was the Senior Vice President of Primary Care
within GSK’s US business. She has a strong track record of performance in both specialty and
primary care. Deborah led the HIV business in the UK before heading the HIV Centre of
Excellence for Pharma Europe and held roles as General Manager of Australia and New
Zealand and Senior Vice President for Central and Eastern Europe.
Deborah is a Non-Executive Director of Schroders plc and holds a degree in Economic History
and English Literature from Liverpool University.
Tony Wood Tony was appointed Chief Scientific Officer (CSO) designate on 19 January 2022 and became
Chief Scientific Officer CSO, Head of R&D and a member of GLT on 1 August 2022. He joined GSK from Pfizer in 2017
as Senior Vice President, Medicinal Science and Technology, responsible for all science and
technology platforms driving the delivery of new innovation.
Tony has led large-scale global organisations in drug discovery and development in multiple
therapeutic areas, including immunology, oncology and infectious diseases. During his time at
Pfizer, Tony was responsible for the invention of a new antiretroviral medication used to treat
HIV infection. He is a Fellow of the Academy of Medical Sciences, an Honorary Fellow of the
Royal Society of Chemistry (RSC), the highest honour given by the RSC, and a Fellow of the
Royal Society of Biology.
Tony has a BSc in chemistry and PhD in organic synthesis from the University of Newcastle,
and was a postdoctoral fellow at Imperial College, London. He is also currently a visiting
professor at IMCM Oxford.
GLT members departing during 2022
Hal Barron was a member of the GLT and Chief Scientific Officer until 1 August 2022, when he transitioned to a Non-Executive Director.
Roger Connor was a member of the GLT and President, Global Vaccines until 1 December 2022, when he left the company.
102103
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
GSK Annual Report 2022
Chair’s governance statement
2022 was one of the most important years in GSK’s recent history which saw the delivery of strong operational and
financial performance, the successful demerger of Consumer Healthcare and the establishment of new GSK as a fully
focused global biopharma company.
There was an intensity to the Board’s work in supporting and overseeing this, which required a number of additional meetings to
be scheduled, as illustrated below.
2022 Board activity
Pre-demerger (1 January to 17 July) Post-demerger (18 July to 31 December)
Routine Additional* Routine Additional*
Board 3 3 Board 3 2
Nominations & Corporate Governance 3 1 Nominations & Corporate Governance 2 0
Science 1 2 Science 2 1
Corporate Responsibility 1 1 Corporate Responsibility 3 0
Audit & Risk 3 2 Audit & Risk 3 2
Remuneration 3 2 Remuneration 3 1
Chairs‘ 0 5 Chairs‘ 0 1
*Additional activity: *Additional activity:
– Development and approval of demerger – CFO succession
documentation and forecast – Zantac litigation
– Haleon plc (Haleon): Chair appointment and Board – Business development
development
– GSK Remuneration policy development and investor
approval
– GSK Board development and CSO succession
– Business development
Executing the demerger and creating new GSK included, at its heart, a robust focus on shareholder value
creation embodied in the ambitions for both companies. These
The Board’s work in the first half of the year was primarily
were communicated in the investor updates in February 2022
occupied in overseeing the smooth execution of the demerger
for Haleon and previously in June 2021 for GSK.
of Consumer Healthcare from GSK, resulting in the creation of
two strong businesses. This culminated in the approval of the
GSK Circular and the Haleon Prospectus which were
overwhelmingly approved by shareholders at the General
Meeting in July, with over 99% of votes cast in favour. This work
2022 separation process
– Disciplined Board approach
GSK Investor Haleon Investor Haleon
to deliver demerger
Update Update Demerger
– Creation of world-leading consumer
healthcare business with competitive
2022
long-term growth prospects and
compelling financial proposition Q1 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
– Newly focused GSK with
strengthened balance sheet for Haleon Chair Haleon Prospectus
investment in pipeline/R&D and Board and Circular
appointments published
– Both companies with clear targets
for upper-quartile growth, set out
at Investor UpdatesGSK Annual Report 2022
Chair's governance statement continued
At our investor updates, we set out what we believed to be We consider deals in respect of their contribution to our
competitive financial aspirations for new GSK. Namely: ambitions for the periods: to 2026, 2026 to 2031, and beyond.
cumulative top-line growth of 5% and operating profit growth The Board can then review the proposal knowing that these
of 10% (excluding COVID-19 solutions), together with an important aspects have been established. We then focus on
aspiration of £31 billion to £33 billion of sales by 2031. This was the value associated with the transaction and how it
not an ambition that the Board entered into lightly. It was a contributes to furthering our strategy and plan.
very important demonstration of the confidence the Board has
During 2022, this process included the appraisal and approval
in the business and our determination to be held accountable
of the acquisitions of:
for a step-change in improved performance. 2022’s strong
operational and financial performance is a good platform to – Sierra Oncology, a biopharmaceutical company focused on
progress from. targeted therapies for rare forms of cancer. The acquisition
included momelotinib, a new medicine with a unique dual
Similarly, for Haleon, the focus was on a top-line growth
mechanism of action intended to address the critical unmet
aspiration to signal that the business had upper quartile
medical needs of myelofibrosis patients with anaemia
growth potential. This view was robustly tested when an
unsolicited conditional and non-binding proposal to acquire – Affinivax, a clinical stage biopharmaceutical company
the Consumer Healthcare business was received. In exercising providing GSK with access to a next generation
its fiduciary duties all proposals were evaluated but rejected by pneumococcal vaccine candidate and a highly innovative
the Board as they were not in the best interests of shareholders. Multiple Antigen Presenting System, known as MAPS
This is because the proposals fundamentally undervalued the Other transactions reviewed by the Board included:
Haleon business and its future prospects. The Board was
– a licensing agreement with Spero Therapeutics for
confident that Haleon could deliver sustained organic sales
tebipenem HBr, a late-stage antibiotic targeted to treat
growth in the range of 4-6% CER over the medium term. It has
complicated urinary tract infections; a significant unmet
been very pleasing to see that since separation, Haleon has
medical need
subsequently announced strong performance.
– a collaboration with Wave Life Sciences, bringing together
A key part of our aspiration for GSK was the restructuring of
Wave’s oligonucleotide platform and GSK’s expertise in
the GSK balance sheet with an appropriate level of debt for
genetics and genomics
Haleon. This sought to ensure the competitiveness of both
companies on separation and GSK’s ability to continue to – a collaboration with Tempus to provide GSK with access to
invest in external as well as internal science was improved. The Tempus’ AI-enabled platform, including its library of
refinancing of approximately £10 billion of indebtedness was de-identified patient data – one of the world’s largest
successfully completed in the first quarter of 2022. This timing sources of clinical and molecular data
was opportune given the current environment. GSK received
£7.1 billion of pre-separation dividends attributable to GSK Shareholder perspectives and engagement
funded by Consumer Healthcare debt and we continue to hold The Board believes in the importance of maintaining a high
13.5% of Haleon shares, which will be divested in due course. and continuous level of engagement with shareholders. During
2022 and up to the date of publication of this Report, I held 27
R&D and business development individual meetings with a range of investors, who make up
I have also previously described the succession process we approximately 35% of the company’s share register. Charles
followed for the CSO transition from Dr Hal Barron to Dr Tony Bancroft, who was appointed our new SID after the demerger,
Wood. We are very pleased with how smooth this process has held 14 introductory meetings with shareholders making up
has been and that we are making good progress in R&D. over 25% of our register. We were also pleased to be able to
The Board receives regular reports on R&D from Dr Wood hold our Annual Governance Meeting in London in December
as well as from the Science Committee, following its reviews. 2022 as an ‘in person’ meeting once again. We extended an
Progress is achieved by organic and inorganic business invitation to shareholders representing holdings totalling
development (BD). approximately 50% of our share register to this event and were
pleased that representatives of over 25% participated virtually
We now have an efficient Board cadence for BD to support
or in person. It is of prime importance for us to maintain a clear
R&D. The scientific screening of a target is undertaken first by
understanding of investors’ views on the company’s
the Science Committee, well in advance of the Board’s
performance. These meetings help achieve that and provide a
consideration. This is to ensure that we are confident with the
key input to our Board planning.
scientific rationale underpinning a deal before progressing to
the Board. If the proposal is for a late or later stage target or
asset, we then also undertake a commercial review of the
forecasts and the commercial assumptions underpinning it.
104105
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
GSK Annual Report 2022
Chair's governance statement continued
2023 Board priorities
Externally facilitated Board review to agree priorities and ways of working
Focus on value creation, governance and oversight of Ahead Together strategy:
to 2026 2026-31 2031 and
beyond
– Delivery of performance targets
– Execution of R&D pipeline and business development
– Long-term R&D strategy and approach
– People/Talent/Culture
– ESG Leadership
– Zantac litigation – defence and mitigation
– Focus on shareholder value creation
New GSK Board priorities They also frame Board discussions when considering strategic
decisions and actions to be taken.
When I joined the Board in September 2019, GSK was entering
a period of significant transition in the run up to the separation
Connecting with the business and our people
of the Group. The Board engaged in a structured, externally
facilitated appraisal of our governance and the architecture of Following the COVID-19 restrictions, the Board is now able to
the Board and its committees. The output of this was a Board meet together in person. Time is set aside to enable our
agenda that was focused and linked directly to the business Non-Executive Directors to have more informal time, together
needs of innovation, pipeline, performance, culture and with the GLT members presenting to them and to meet with
separation, and a refined committee architecture that other colleagues at each meeting location.
reinforced these priorities.
The Board and Board committees
Following separation, it was time to set new Board priorities.
Ms Hall of No 4, a business advisory company, was engaged to The Board’s agenda seeks to be focused and not to duplicate
facilitate this work following the success of her previous review. work. Each committee remit defines its agenda to support our
This work comprised two key aspects: priorities. Our Committee Chairs continue to be responsible for
sharing with the Board the work their committees undertake
– a review of our current ways of working, with
and the main issues they are overseeing. They also highlight
recommendations for further improvement and establishing
specific committee papers which they believe would benefit
priorities for the Board agenda for the next three to five years
the Board’s wider understanding. Non-Executive Directors
– an evaluation of the Board and its committees during 2022 may attend any committee meeting and have full access to
agendas and papers. From time to time the Chairs’ Committee,
The Board is now aligned with management to deliver our new
or a more specific Board committee, may be convened for a
Ahead Together purpose, strategy and culture, with a strong
specific topic. This creates flexibility and enables the Board to
emphasis on value creation over three time periods: near-term
be more agile, if required. Given the increased biopharma
(2023-26) based around delivering our public commitments;
expertise of the new Board, management has also been
medium- to long-term (2026-31); and beyond. Our Board
sharing proposals and opportunities at an earlier stage to
programme for 2023 has been set accordingly.
facilitate more efficient decision-making.
The report of the formal independent external 2022 Board and
The following is a snapshot of aspects of our Board
committee performance review is set out on page 111.
committees, work in 2022.
Board culture and decision-making Audit & Risk Committee: assisted in the establishment of a
The Board fully supported our new purpose, strategy and the robust internal control and risk management control
performance culture for new GSK. We are now well-positioned framework for Haleon as an independent listed company. It
to deliver on our public commitments for growth and to create also confirmed that GSK’s framework remained fit for our new
sustainable long-term value. All Board discussions focus on the future. The Committee took a lead role in completing the
powerful combination of Science, Technology and Talent and scrutiny of and then subsequently recommending to the Board
realising GSK’s desired culture. These support our aim to be: the demerger and listing documents for shareholder approval
at the General Meeting in July 2022.
– ambitious for patients
– accountable for impact
– doing the right thingGSK Annual Report 2022
Chair's governance statement continued
Since the demerger, the Group’s share price performance in Science Committee: Good progress has been made in R&D.
the second half of the year was impacted by the uncertainties The Committee continues to support the ambitious and agile
associated with the Zantac product liability litigation in the development of our pipeline, both organically and through
US. The Committee continues to have primary Board smart business development, by overseeing and reviewing our
accountability for the Zantac litigation, including accounting, application of science. The Committee supported the seamless
disclosure and communication assessments on behalf of the transition of leadership of R&D to Dr Tony Wood from Dr Hal
Board. The Committee has a clear remit and recommends Barron. Tony’s role as a key architect in rebuilding our pipeline
decisions on the navigation of the litigation to the Board, as was key to this.
appropriate. I would reiterate at this point that the company
Corporate Responsibility Committee: The new culture at GSK
remains very confident in its position on these matters and
is something that we all own. It powers our purpose, drives
will defend itself vigorously against any claims brought.
delivery of our strategy and helps make GSK a place where
Nominations & Corporate Governance Committee: people can thrive. The Committee continues to focus its
supported the demerger of the Consumer Healthcare business oversight on evolving the company’s ESG performance. I am
by assisting the Haleon Chair designate in completing the pleased that we are able to report that we are on track
composition of the Haleon Board. This included the transfer, against our new ESG rating and reassured by the further
on demerger, of two of our serving Directors, Vindi Banga and enhancements to our ESG reporting and data oversight.
Dame Vivienne Cox. The Committee felt strongly that their
Remuneration Committee: Our focused new Remuneration
particular skills and experience would be valuable to Haleon
policy is a fundamental part of the architecture of new
and that they would also importantly provide continuity for the
GSK post-separation. It is critical we now build a strong
new Haleon Board.
performance culture to generate sustained delivery of
The Committee’s other focus was on continuing to complete shareholder value. Our new policy seeks to achieve this
the composition of the new GSK Board and changes to the key linkage between executive remuneration rewarding
GLT. The key focus was in deepening the Board’s scientific outperformance.
and biopharma skills. The Committee selected new Directors
We engaged extensively with shareholders and shareholder
with a strong emphasis on life sciences and technology to help
representative bodies as we developed the new policy to
deepen our biopharma expertise and experience:
recognise the importance of the new reward system to support
– Dr Vishal Sikka is a world-leading technologist in the field of new GSK’s success. The final policy was modified to reflect the
advanced enterprise technologies with extraordinary feedback we received, whilst recognising the sizeable minority
credentials in AI and machine learning of shareholders who voted against it. We will continue to
engage with shareholders to demonstrate the importance
– Liz McKee Anderson has deep commercial expertise across
we place on rewarding over-performance in the policy at this
both large and specialty biopharma and has specific
crucial next stage of new GSK’s development. The strong
experience of global commercialisation and market access
operational and financial performance of the company
in specialisms such as respiratory, immunology, vaccines and
in 2022 is an encouraging start. However, GSK has
HIV
underperformed in terms of TSR and share price performance
– Julie Brown, will join GSK in April as our incoming CFO. She for many years. The new policy is firmly focused on addressing
has considerable listed pharmaceuticals and commercial and reversing this trend and the outturns of awards in 2022
experience recognise the significant improvement in performance.
The Board now has scientific credentials ideally suited to its Overall good progress was made in 2022. However, your Board
new purpose and which are among the strongest in the is clear that there is more to do to increase investor confidence
industry. We have moved away from the broader experience in the ability of the Group to sustain growth over the next
on the Board I originally joined in 2019. I am pleased at how decade.
the debate and discussion in Board and committee meetings
Thank you for your continued support and I look forward to
has evolved to our new purpose and is deeper and more
connecting with you during the year, whether at our Annual
enriched as a result. The Committee will continue to recruit
General Meeting in May, or otherwise, to share our continued
diverse Directors with scientific and biopharma expertise to
progress.
meet the evolving needs of the Board to oversee the
company’s strategy as a global biopharma business.
Sir Jonathan Symonds
Chair
9 March 2023
106107
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
GSK Annual Report 2022
Corporate governance architecture
Board
CEO Chairs’ Corporate Science Nominations Audit & Risk Remuneration
Committee Responsibility Committee & Corporate Committee Committee
Committee Governance
GLT Committee
Our corporate governance architecture is a framework designed to improve the effectiveness of the Board and to support its
oversight of the GSK Leadership Team (GLT) in the delivery of our strategy. It continues to evolve to support our infrastructure and
priorities as a pure biopharma business.
GSK’s internal control and risk management arrangements are an integral part of our overall corporate governance framework
and are described on pages 51 to 64 and pages 125 and 126 .
To ensure the framework's optimal effectiveness it requires:
– a clear division of responsibilities for individual and collective Board roles described on the next page
– the appropriate distribution of workload to the Board committee with the requisite focus and skills
– highly committed Board Directors motivated to discharge their roles and responsibilities for the success of the company
C ommittee roles Committee
report
Committee Role and focus Membership on page
Chairs’ Acts on behalf of the Board between its scheduled meetings to take decisions on urgent Sir Jonathan Symonds –
matters in accordance with matters and authority delegated to it by the Board from time to (Company Chair)
time Senior Independent
Director
Chairs of the Board's
committees
Corporate Considers GSK's Trust priority and has oversight of our responsible business approach and ESG Dr Anne Beal (Chair) 117-118
Responsibility strategy, performance and reporting. This reflects the most important issues for responsible and Dr Jesse Goodman
sustainable business growth. It has oversight of the views and interests of our internal and Dr Vishal Sikka
external stakeholders and reviews issues that have the potential for serious impact upon GSK’s
business and reputation
Science Supports the Board in its understanding of the key strategic themes, upon which the company’s Dr Hal Dietz (Chair 118-120
R&D strategy is based, and of external transactions, by performing in-depth reviews of the from 1 January 2023)
underlying scientific assumptions to give the Board technical assurance. It also undertakes more Dr Jesse Goodman
in-depth risk oversight of R&D-related risks (Chair to 31
December 2022)
Dr Hal Barron
Nominations Reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board, the appointment of members to Sir Jonathan Symonds 120-124
& Corporate Board committees and the appointment of Corporate Officers. It makes recommendations to (Chair)
Governance the Board as appropriate. It also plans and assesses orderly succession for Executive and Charles Bancroft
Non-Executive Directors and reviews management's Succession Plan to ensure its adequacy Dr Anne Beal
Urs Rohner
Is responsible for reporting to the Board, overseeing and monitoring corporate governance
arrangements and for making recommendations to the Board to ensure the company’s
standards and arrangements are consistent with existing corporate governance standards and
emerging best practice. It also reviews Board and GLT conflicts of interest
Audit & Risk Reviews the financial reporting process, the integrity of the company’s financial statements, the Charles Bancroft 124-129
external and internal audit process, the system of internal control and the identification and (Chair)
management of risks, and the company’s process for monitoring compliance with laws, Elizabeth McKee
regulations and ethical codes of practice. It also oversees ESG data reporting and assurance Anderson
Urs Rohner
Initiates audit tenders, the selection and appointment of the external auditor, setting
its remuneration and exercising oversight of its work
Remuneration Sets the company’s Remuneration policy having regard to GSK’s workforce remuneration Urs Rohner (Chair) 132-164
so that GSK is able to recruit, retain and motivate its executives Charles Bancroft
Dr Anne Beal
The Remuneration policy is regularly reviewed to ensure that it is consistent with the company’s
Elizabeth McKee
scale and scope of operations, supports the business strategy and growth plans, is aligned to
Anderson
the wider workforce and helps drive the creation of shareholder value
(The Chair and the CEO are responsible for evaluating and making recommendations to the
Board on the remuneration arrangements and policy for the Non-Executive Directors)
Each Board committee has written terms of reference which are approved by the Board and are reviewed at least annually to
ensure that they comply with the latest legal and regulatory requirements and reflect best practice developments. The current full
terms of reference of each Board committee are available on gsk.com. Board and committee meeting attendance for 2022 and
oversight of the company's policy on external appointments is set out on page 109.GSK Annual Report 2022
Corporate governance architecture continued
Leadership Independent oversight and rigorous challenge
Chair
Non-Executive Directors
Jonathan Symonds
– provide a strong independent element to the Board
– leads and manages the business of the Board
– constructively support and challenge management and
– provides direction and focus
scrutinise its performance in achieving agreed
– ensures a clear structure for effective operation of the
deliverables
Board and its committees
– shape proposals on strategy and offer specialist advice to
– maintains a dialogue with shareholders about the
management
governance of the company
– each has a letter of appointment setting out the terms
– sets the Board agenda and ensures sufficient time is
and conditions of their directorship
allocated to promote effective debate to support sound
– devote such time as is necessary to the proper
decision-making
performance of their duties
– ensures the Board receives accurate, timely and clear
– are expected to attend all meetings as required
information
– meets continuously with each Non-Executive Director to Independence statement
discuss individual contributions and performance, The Board considers all of its Non-Executive Directors who
together with training and development needs are identified on pages 97 to 100, with the exception of Dr
– shares peer feedback that is provided as part of the Hal Barron, to be independent after being assessed against
Board evaluation process Provision 10 of the Financial Reporting Council's (FRC) UK
– meets regularly with all the Non-Executive Directors Corporate Governance Code (Code).
independently of the Executive Directors
The independence and commitment of Dr Jesse Goodman
The Chair’s role description is available on gsk.com
and Urs Rohner, who have each served on the Board for
over six years, has been subjected to a rigorous review.
Chief Executive Officer
GSK's Non-Executive Director role description is available on gsk.com
Emma Walmsley
– is responsible for the management of the Group and its Senior Independent Director
business Charles Bancroft
– develops the Group’s strategic direction for consideration – acts as a sounding board for the Chair and a trusted
and approval by the Board intermediary for other Directors
– implements the agreed strategy – together with the Non-Executive Directors, leads the
– is supported by members of the GLT annual review of the Chair’s performance, taking into
– maintains a continual and active dialogue with account the views of the Executive Directors
shareholders in respect of the company’s performance – discusses the results of the Chair’s effectiveness review
with the Chair
The Chief Executive Officer’s role description is available on gsk.com – leads the search and appointment process and makes the
recommendation to the Board for a new Chair
– acts as an additional point of contact for shareholders,
maintains an understanding of the issues and concerns of
major shareholders through meetings with investors and
briefings from the Company Secretary and Investor
Relations
G SK's Senior Independent Non-Executive Director’s role description is
available on gsk.com
Company Secretary – is secretary to the Board and all Board committees
Victoria Whyte – supports the Board and Committee Chairs in annual agenda planning
– ensures information is made available to Board members in a timely fashion
– supports the Chair in designing and delivering Board inductions
– coordinates continuing business awareness and training requirements for the Non-Executive
Directors
– undertakes internal Board and committee evaluations at the request of the Chair
– advises the Directors on Board practice and procedures, and corporate governance matters
– chairs the Group’s Disclosure Committee
– operates a Board-approved appointments policy that reflects the Board and external
appointment requirements of the Code
– is a point of contact for shareholders on all corporate governance matters
108109
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
GSK Annual Report 2022
Corporate governance architecture continued
2022 Board and committee attendance
Nominations &
Corporate Corporate
Board Chairs’ Responsibility Science Governance Audit & Risk Remuneration
Total number of routine meetings 6 6 4 3 5 6 6
Current members Attended Attended Attended Attended Attended Attended
Sir Jonathan Symonds 6 6 5
Emma Walmsley 6
Iain Mackay 6
Elizabeth McKee Anderson 1 (2) 1 (2) 1 (2)
Dr Hal Barron 6 2 (2)
Charles Bancroft 6 5 5 6 3 (3)
Dr Anne Beal 6 1 (3) 4 2 (2) 5 (5) 3 (3)
Dr Harry C Dietz 6 3
Dr Jesse Goodman 6 5 4 3
Urs Rohner 6 6 5 3 (3) 6
Dr Vishal Sikka 3 (3) 2 (3)
Retired members
Vindi Banga 3 (3) 4 (5) 3 (3) 3 (3) 3 (3)
Dame Vivienne Cox 3 (3) 1 (1) 3 (3)
Lynn Elsenhans 3 (3) 2 (3) 1 (1) 3 (3) 3 (3)
Dr Laurie Glimcher 5 (5) 2 (2) 5 (5)
Number of additional meetings 5 – 1 3 1 4 3
The numbers in brackets denote the number of meetings which these individuals were eligible to attend. See Board and committee changes during
2022 on page 123. Details of committee members’ skills and experience are included in their biographies under ‘The Board’ on pages 97 to 100.
FRC UK Corporate Governance Code Provision 38 requires alignment of pension rates for executive
directors with those available to the local workforce. Since
Financial experience
1 January 2023, current Executive Directors' pension rates
In accordance with the FRC's Code, the Board has
have been aligned to the wider workforce local to them. This
determined that Charles Bancroft has recent and relevant
replicates the requirement for pension arrangements for any
financial experience. It has also agreed that he has the
new Executive Directors appointed to GSK.
appropriate qualifications and background to be an audit
committee financial expert as defined by the Sarbanes- In addition, provision 38 requires that only base salary should
Oxley Act of 2002, and has determined that he is be pensionable. US pension arrangements for employees
independent within the meaning of the Securities Exchange allow basic salary and bonus to be pensionable. Following
Act of 1934, as amended. Dr Hal Barron's transition to a Non-Executive Director with
effect from 1 August 2022, this FRC Code requirement has
Compliance
also been met.
The Board is pleased to report that in 2022 it was in full
compliance with the provisions of the FRC's Code, with the The Board is also pleased to report that it has consistently
exception of Code provision 38. applied the principles of the FRC's Code, as set out in the
pages of this and the Remuneration report. A copy of the
Code is available on the FRC’s website, www.frc.org.uk.
All our Non-Executive Directors are expected to devote such time as is necessary for the performance of their duties. Each
Director is required to attend a minimum of 75% of scheduled Board and committees meetings. However, it is recognised that
there may be rare occasions when this is not possible. Special allowance is given during the first year of Board membership
while calendars are aligned. There was a high attendance record at scheduled Board and committee meetings for all our
Directors who served during 2022, as set out above.
Our Board Directors’ external appointments are governed by a Board approved policy. External appointments can help Board
and GLT members widen their expertise and knowledge and hence perform their roles more effectively. When proposing new
Non-Executive Director appointments to the Board for approval, the Board takes into account other demands on the
individuals’ time. Prior to appointment to the Board, an individual is required to disclose significant commitments they may
have with an indication of the time involved.
All additional prospective external appointments for serving Board Directors are considered and approved by the Board,
noting the nature of the role and type of organisation, time commitment and any potential conflicts that are envisaged.
The Company Secretary maintains a register of commitments and potential conflicts. The Board is satisfied that given
Directors’ other interests, each has sufficient time to carry out their role. Our Executive or Non-Executive Directors may
undertake a maximum of one, or up to four listed company directorships, respectively.GSK Annual Report 2022
Ahead Together – Board oversight
The Board discharges its responsibilities through an annual programme of meetings.
In 2022, papers and presentations were provided to the Board (and its committees) which were focused on the strengthening of the
fundamental elements of the business to move Ahead Together in pursuit of the company's strategy to deliver GSK's growth-based
performance ambitions, oversee the demerger and listing of Haleon, establishing GSK as a pure biopharma business and drive our ESG
leadership priorities. In doing so, these papers and presentations also highlighted the relevant stakeholder impacts and perspectives.
These materials enable the Board's effective decision-making, input and oversight of business performance and governance.
The key items of business considered critical to GSK’s long-term success through the achievement of GSK's key priorities are highlighted
below:
Areas of focus in 2022
Demerger and The Board’s preparation for the demerger as a value-based process included:
listing of Haleon – discussing strategy and plans for Consumer Healthcare for the period up to and beyond its separation as Haleon
– receiving regular performance reports
– scrutinising and overseeing the Consumer Healthcare Capital Markets Day approach and materials
– supporting appointments to the Haleon Board, including the transition of Vindi Banga and Dame Vivienne Cox to Haleon
– scrutinising and responding to an unsolicited proposal for the Consumer Healthcare business in advance of the demerger
– approving the GSK Shareholder Circular recommending the demerger and overseeing the Haleon Prospectus
– approval of the demerger and subsequent GSK share consolidation
Build GSK as a The Board’s oversight of the creation of GSK as a pure biopharma business and delivery of a step-change in performance included:
pure biopharma – regularly discussing and scrutinising transformation plans for GSK
business
– scutinising updates on R&D strategy, progress and progression of the company's pipeline
– requesting the Remuneration Committee renew the Remuneration policy's focus to incentivise overdelivery and reward a new
performance culture
– Board and management succession planning, including approval of the appointment of a new Chief Scientific Officer, the transition
of Dr Hal Barron to Non-Executive Director, and the appointment of two new independent Non-Executive Directors and a new Chief
Financial Officer
– approval of Charles Bancroft as successor to Vindi Banga in the role of Senior Independent Director
– approval of a change in approach to workforce engagement
Ahead Together The Board’s oversight of the fundamentals of commercial execution, cost base management, capital allocation, pipeline and
– further culture included:
strengthening the – setting and approving the Board’s 2022-24 priorities
fundamentals of – receiving regular progress updates and providing input into the company’s Vaccines mRNA strategy and plan
value creation
– receiving and discussing commercial strategy performance reports from Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and ViiV Healthcare
– receiving updates on R&D strategy and pipeline progress
– approving business development transactions, acquisitions and strategic partnerships with third parties including: Sierra Oncology,
Affinivax, Mersana Therapeutics, Spero Therapeutics, Wave Life Sciences and Tempus
– receiving quarterly reports from the CEO, CFO and CSO
– scrutinising the Group’s financial performance
– setting the company’s new name, purpose and simplified culture, through a new Code of Conduct
Enhancing The Board’s oversight of our new culture and embedding ESG at our core:
ESG leadership – approving and supporting the new GSK culture
– approving the Responsible Business section of the Annual Report
– approving the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures section in the Annual Report
– final approval of our Pricing and Access Policy principles
– overseeing GSK’s overall response to the situation in Ukraine
Regular The Board’s programme of governance included:
corporate – reviewing the quarterly financial results, dividend proposals, earnings guidance, investor materials, results announcements and
governance receiving reports from the external auditor
oversight – approving the final 2021 Annual Report and Form 20-F
– setting the annual budget, and the forward-looking three-year plan
– conducting an annual review of the Board’s enterprise risk responsibility framework and enterprise-wide risks
– undertaking an annual Board evaluation and implementing its agreed outcomes
– reviewing and continuing to evolve the Board’s governance architecture
– evaluating the CEO’s 2021 performance, and setting her 2022 objectives
– reviewing the talent and succession plans annually
– receiving reports on Board committee work
– engaging with GSK's stakeholders and the wider workforce to gather and understand their views on the company’s activities and
operation
– reviewing the employee PULSE survey results
– receiving reports on wider corporate governance and regulatory developments, and the Company Secretary’s report
– approving the company's modern slavery statement and gender pay gap positioning
– reviewing stakeholder perception research
110111
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
GSK Annual Report 2022
Ahead Together – Board oversight continued
Action points
Board performance
After due consideration and discussion the following action
The Board evaluates its performance, and that of its points to further improve performance in 2023 were agreed:
committees, every year. The evaluation is normally carried out
– The key area of focus for the Board should continue to be
externally every third year, with the last one being facilitated in
R&D (organic and inorganic). Meeting the pipeline goals,
2020 by Jan Hall of No 4, a business advisory company which
and therefore delivering shareholder value, is seen by all as
does not have any other connection with GSK. The Board felt
the top priority
it would be helpful for No 4 to conduct the 2022 evaluation
following the completion of the demerger of Haleon and the – The importance of the Science Committee in working with
formation of GSK as a new biopharma company. the CSO to help optimise the pipeline
– Supporting the onboarding of the new CFO, Julie Brown
Preparation
– Board succession planning would be progressed to ensure a
No 4 met with the Chair and CEO in advance of the evaluation,
broad range of diverse candidates for consideration as
for an update on how the Board is operating to understand
successor for the Remuneration Committee Chair
GSK’s future priorities, and to agree the review’s objectives,
scope and timetable. The Company Secretary also provided
Board committees
No 4 with access to Board and committee materials, and other
The review of the Board committees focused on their progress.
information.
It involved virtual interviews with committee members
conducted by No 4 on behalf of the respective Committee
Interviews
Chairs. Each committee was considered to operate effectively
During November and December 2022, No 4 conducted
and the following further enhancements were agreed:
confidential and detailed interviews with the Board, selected
GLT members, the Company Secretary, GSK’s external auditor – The importance of optimising concise feedback by
Committee Chairs to the full Board following each and our incoming and outgoing independent remuneration
committee meeting
adviser, to seek their views on the Board’s effectiveness. These
meetings reflected an agreed discussion guideline that was – Following agreement of the overall Board priorities and
sent to each participant beforehand. This included key topics the Board agenda, Committee Chairs agreed to review the
from the Financial Reporting Council’s 2018 Guidance on main areas of responsibility for their committees in line with
Board Effectiveness and the relevant requirements of its 2018 the Board priorities and incorporate them into their
UK Corporate Governance Code. However, this did not limit the committee programmes for 2023
feedback each participant could give.
– In particular, the importance of the Science Committee in
supporting organic and inorganic R&D and evolving the
Review
ways in which the committee works with the CSO and his
The Review sought to determine the Board's priorities over the team
next three to five years and how they should be built into the
Board's agenda. The evaluation results and suggested next Chair
steps were included in a summary report, compiled by No 4
and discussed initially with the Chair, CEO and the Senior The SID and No 4 sought feedback on the Chair's performance
Independent Director (SID). The Review was presented to the from the Directors individually and collectively. This concluded
Board in January 2023 which covered the following main areas that the Chair was operating effectively in leading the Board.
of the effectiveness review: The results of the review were then noted by No 4 and
discussed by the Chair and the SID.
– Overall review of the Board
– Board organisation, agenda and information
– Board dynamics, challenge and input
– Future strategy development
– Performance deliveryGSK Annual Report 2022
Key decisions and engagements
In particular, the Board's continuous engagement with our
Section 172 statement
investors and people is set out in this section on pages 114 to
116, and the company’s corporate governance architecture and
Board members are required by law to promote the success of
processes are summarised on pages 107 to 109.
their organisation for the benefit of both shareholders and their
wider stakeholders, including employees, suppliers and the This summary sets out how the Board considered all relevant
community. This statement meets this requirement, as set out matters in making the principal decisions that contributed to
in Section 172 and Section 414CZA of the Companies Act 2006 the formation of two attractive and viable businesses with
(the Act). It states how, during the year, our Directors compelling investment propositions, through:
addressed the matters set out in Section 172(1) (a) to (f) of the
– delivering the separation of Haleon from GSK with a strong
Act when performing their duties.
focus on shareholder value (the Demerger) and
The Board considers that the statement focuses on those risks
– building GSK as a pure biopharma company that is
and opportunities that are strategically important to GSK, and
ambitious for patients, accountable for impact and does the
consistent with the Group’s size and complexity. This allows it to
right thing (new GSK)
properly understand the potential impacts of the decisions it
makes on all stakeholders. The Demerger represented a key step in a multi-year
transformation of GSK to improve focus, performance and
Engagement with our main stakeholder groups, including our
competitiveness, and to maximise value for shareholders. The
patients, shareholders, consumers, customers and employees
Demerger also provided the right opportunity to implement the
at all levels and across the organisation, are summarised
legal change of name of the company from GlaxoSmithKline
throughout the pages of our strategic report.
plc to GSK plc. This was designed to mark the new GSK brand
and culture and protect and build it for the future. The change
was made in May 2022.
(a) Long-term results
The likely consequences of any decision in the long term – a newly independent global leader in consumer health
with a focused strategy to drive penetration growth across
At the end of May 2022, the Board assessed the company’s
its portfolio, capitalising on new and emerging growth
readiness to proceed with the Demerger and approved the
opportunities, underpinned by strong execution and
GSK Circular and agreed the Haleon Prospectus to be sent
financial discipline. Haleon, as an independent company,
to shareholders as the final stage of the Demerger.
would be able to deliver sustainable above-market
The Board exercised its Section 172 duties by reviewing growth, moderate sustainable adjusted operating margin
the work of management and the Audit & Risk, Corporate expansion in the medium term with attractive returns to
Responsibility, Remuneration and Transformation & shareholders
Separation committees in progressing the separation
– new GSK, a pure biopharmaceuticals company with a
since mid-2020. This included;
portfolio focused on Vaccines, Specialty Medicines and
– extensive consultations held with the key stakeholders, and General Medicines with clearly defined financial
sharing the long-term growth ambitions at the investor ambitions, a clear ambition to deliver large-scale and
events for GSK in June 2021 and Haleon in February 2022 long-term positive human health impact and a strong
– considering and rejecting the unsolicited, conditional and balance sheet enabling a growth-oriented capital
non-binding proposals received to acquire the Consumer allocation policy and attractive shareholder returns
Healthcare business The Board believed that the Demerger would unlock the
In recommending these proposals to create two potential of both businesses, strengthen the balance sheet of
independent companies to most effectively serve their new GSK and its ability to invest in growth and maximise
patients and customers respectively, the Board firmly long-term return for shareholders.
believed that its decision would establish: Shareholders duly approved the two resolutions proposed at
the General Meeting held on 6 July 2022 and the Demerger
was then effected on 18 July 2022.
112113
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
GSK Annual Report 2022
Key decisions and engagements continued
(b) Our workforce
The interests of the Group’s employees These were attended by GLT members and Non-Executive
Board members including the Chair.
The Board had continual regard to the interests of our
people who were either remaining with new GSK or In 2022, in addition to our annual bonus and long-term
departing to form Haleon. It achieved this by using various incentive structure, the Board also gave a special thank you
employee voice mechanisms described on pages 10, 11 to all our people (excluding GLT), allowing us to recognise
and 115 to help explain the future shape of these companies, what we had achieved together in preparation for the
understand and assess the impact of these changes on the Demerger and the transformation of the company into a
organisation and how they were being experienced by our pure biopharma company. As a result, everyone received a
people. one-off payment equivalent to a week’s salary in March,
separate to our 2021 bonus pay-out.
Significant focus was dedicated in bringing to life new GSK’s
Ahead Together purpose, strategy and culture for our people We also ensured that the treatment of awards or options
across the Group. A strong emphasis has been given to held by GSK employees, and for departing Haleon
individual ownership of our new culture. This was formally employees, delivered a fair outcome in accordance with the
launched in June 2022 with events held around the rules of those share schemes as part of the Demerger and
company’s locations globally. the GSK share consolidation.
(c) Our business relationships
The importance of developing the Group’s business – ethical behaviour is promoted across our business by
relationships with suppliers, customers and others supporting our people to do the right thing and working
with suppliers that share our standards and operate in a
A key imperative for the Board of GSK as a responsible
responsible way. Our new Code of Conduct seeks to set
business is to ensure the company develops and monitors
out expectations in this regard
these partnerships to ultimately serve patients. The benefits
of these relationships and how they can support the – our third parties are expected to meet our ABAC and
achievement of our ambitions are described in the pages of labour rights standards and to comply with our standards
our strategic report, for example: on quality, health and safety, and the environment.
Approximately 29% of our total emissions footprint comes
– achieving our Ahead Together ambition to positively
from the goods and services that we buy. In September
impact the health of 2.5 billion people by the end of 2030,
2022, in support of our net zero carbon impact on climate
requires the development of vaccines and medicines and
ambition, we launched our Sustainable Procurement
making them available through responsible pricing,
Programme. This will require our suppliers to, among other
strategic access programmes and partnerships
things, disclose emissions, set carbon reduction targets,
and switch to renewable power and heat
(d) The community and the environment – establishing the six areas of ESG focus for new GSK as a
global biopharma company that are fundamental to our
The impact of the Group’s operations on the community
DNA and success. These six areas, detailed on pages 42
and our environment
to 50, directly contribute to long-term shareholder value
Our approach to making a positive impact has been guided by contributing to our health impact, supporting thriving
by extensive stakeholder engagement on the key issues people and reducing risk. The environment is one of our
relevant to new GSK and, prior to the demerger, Haleon’s principal ESG focus areas. In 2022, an environmental
respective industries and the nature of the companies scorecard measure was introduced into our long-term
themselves. The Board has sought to achieve this by: incentive plans to incentivise and reward progress on
– in preparation for the Demerger, working with Haleon’s delivering against our net zero impact on climate and net
management team in developing its own distinctive positive impact on nature public ambitions by 2030
responsible business approach and ESG framework The Board has also been focused on new GSK’s Ahead
bespoke to the needs of its customers and the Together ambition to impact the lives of 2.5 billion patients
communities it serves. This also involved scrutinising this over the next ten years. Human capital is key to GSK and as
framework and the proposed targets, including such we are seeking to strengthen early STEM education
environmental sustainability targets. These were presented investments to further support a long-term diverse talent
at Haleon's investor update in February 2022 pool and increase the positive impact of volunteering
activities within the communities in which we serve.GSK Annual Report 2022
Key decisions and engagements continued
(e) Our reputation
Our desire to maintain our reputation for high standards of – reaching an agreement with the trustees of the GSK UK
business conduct Pension Schemes on a package of measures (including
funding and protections) in relation to the Demerger and
This duty guided the Board’s approach to the Demerger and
the GSK UK Pension Schemes’ triennial actuarial valuations
the creation of new GSK. This was achieved by:
– ensuring that GSK remained as one company in how we
– the transformation of the company, initially launched in
operated until the point of Demerger, with the overriding
early 2020. This included fundamentally reviewing our
emphasis on driving top-line growth and improving margin
structure, cost base, ways of working and the effectiveness
of both our biopharma and consumer healthcare – implementing plans for the six areas of ESG focus for new
businesses and implementing targeted enhancements in GSK, outlined to investors in June 2021 to help retain and
advance of the Demerger develop further GSK’s reputation for ESG leadership and
responsible business conduct
– choosing the optimal form of separation through a
Demerger with the same listing location and structure for – developing a distinctive and holistic responsible business
Haleon as GSK. As a result, Haleon should operate to the case and ESG framework for Haleon which was outlined to
same premium listed, legal and corporate governance investors in February 2022. This supported Haleon’s
standards, in an environment with common business and purpose, strategy and culture as a premium UK listed
ethical values to GSK company, with a focus on the key responsible business issues
– extensive legal and financial due diligence and – ensuring that the Board and our people in new GSK
engagement with key regulators, investors and other key commit annually to our new Code of Conduct introduced
stakeholders, which was undertaken in preparing the GSK in June 2022. This Code sets out our Board endorsed
Circular, the Haleon Prospectus and the Haleon 20-F Ahead Together purpose and culture, as well as the
performance commitments our people make so we can all
deliver on the company’s ambitions in the right way
(f) Fairness between our shareholders
Our aim to act fairly as between members of the Group – each shareholder receiving a pro-rated shareholding in
Haleon after the Demerger, with the receipt of one Haleon
It was of fundamental importance that the Board was able
share for each GSK share held. Additionally, all Haleon
to ensure that shareholders were treated fairly up to, on and
shares from the inception of the Demerger had equal
after the Demerger. This was demonstrated by:
rights to participate in capital, dividend and profit
– deciding on the most appropriate capital structures distributions by Haleon
required for the two companies to be competitive, on
– the GSK Share Consolidation achieved consistency in the
which stock exchanges Haleon should list, and whether,
GSK share price pre- and post-Demerger to enable
and to what extent, to distribute shares in Haleon to GSK’s
comparability between the new GSK earnings per share
shareholders and retain any stake in Haleon
and share price with previous periods. It also preserved, as
– each shareholder having a right to vote on a one vote for far as reasonably possible, the value of share options and
one share basis at the General Meeting for the Demerger awards granted to our people after the Demerger
and the new GSK share consolidation, and related party
transactions resolutions. To ensure that as many
shareholders as possible could participate in the meeting,
shareholders were able to ask questions and vote either
electronically or in person. Voting majorities in excess of
99% were recorded for each resolution
Approach to continuous engagement The Board placed two of our main stakeholders at
the heart of our renewed culture, with our people all being
Our stakeholders rightly have high expectations of us. The
ambitious for patients, accountable for impact, and doing the
dynamic operating environment presents many challenges
right thing. Our culture is described on pages 10 and 11 of the
and opportunities. The Board aims to make sure that being
strategic report.
commercially successful is balanced and aligned with meeting
our stakeholders’ expectations, upholding our reputation, The influence and importance of different stakeholder groups
maintaining our licence to operate and building trust. can vary, depending on the matter being considered. Certain
The Board engages with or is briefed on the views of our stakeholders’ interests can be in conflict, meaning the Board
stakeholders, to ensure it identifies and responds to their needs to make balanced judgements.
expectations effectively and appropriately.
Continuous stakeholder engagement and feedback helps us
How we engage with our main stakeholder groups – including identify emerging issues. It also enables the Board to make
patients, shareholders, consumers, customers and employees decisions in the context of what is relevant and important to
– across the company is covered in the pages of our strategic each of them.
report.
114115
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
GSK Annual Report 2022
Key decisions and engagements continued
Our principal Board committees, and the GLT, undertake Workforce engagement: Dame Vivienne concluded her
engagement on the Board’s behalf in accordance with their workforce engagement activities in the first half of the year.
remit. This means that they can build a detailed understanding This was prior to her transfer to the Haleon Board in July 2022
of how our actions or plans are/or may impact stakeholders. on the separation of the Consumer Healthcare business. Her
These insights are then shared with the Board. programme of visits was conducted on the same basis as she
described in previous Annual Reports.
In particular, the Board receives briefings on stakeholders’
perspectives from the work of the Corporate Responsibility Dame Vivienne provided a focus for employee engagement as
Committee, which is discussed on pages 117 and 118. our designated Workforce Engagement Director from
December 2018. Her tenure coincided in its entirety with the
Board members regularly receive:
programme to transform GSK into a focused biopharma
– the CEO’s Board Report company and the demerger of Consumer Healthcare to form
– a specific External Stakeholders’ Report. This provides Haleon. She continued to take questions and gather feedback
strategic insights based on an analysis of key developments, for the Board from employees on the future strategy, shape
achievements and risks impacting our reputation and the and culture of the two new independent companies in the
perceptions of all our external stakeholders build up to separation. In doing so, during 2022 she held
listening events with a cross-section of:
– a regular Investor Relations Report which summarises
investor perceptions – Consumer Healthcare employees in April 2022 prior to their
transfer to Haleon and
– regular corporate governance, litigation and regulatory
updates – Digital and Tech employees in June 2022 that were helping
to ensure a strong and secure technology platform for both
The Board also learns of stakeholder views through:
companies
Engagement and feedback events such as: the quarterly
Prior to separation, the Board reviewed its formal workforce
investor results calls, the Annual General Meeting, employee
engagement arrangements. It was decided to move from a
survey reports, through the Board’s workforce engagement
specific Workforce Engagement Director model and apply an
activities, and from experts presenting at Board or committee
‘alternative arrangement’ to the three methods set out in the
meetings. In addition to the Chair’s investor check-in meetings
FRC’s Code. Given that the new GSK Board was recently
which he holds on an ongoing basis, our new SID, Charles
refreshed in terms of tenure, with over half of the independent
Bancroft, joined him for some meetings. Charles also met
Non-Executive Directors (NEDs) having served for less than
individually with investors to introduced himself and gain a
three years, and with GSK's renewed purpose and focus as a
personal understanding of issues and any views they may
global biopharma company, it was considered important to
have.
adopt a collective Board engagement model. This was agreed
Other opportunities: Board members also gain wider to be the most effective approach to ensure newer Board
stakeholder views during the annual strategy meeting with the members meet our people and hear their views. This has been
GLT, as part of the annual review of strategy, budget and implemented by:
planning process. This includes a review of specific aspects of
– a return to direct in-person receptions with local employees,
the company’s policies or strategy. In addition, Board members
following COVID-19 restrictions during Board site visits.
are encouraged to meet individually with employees,
During the second half of 2022 these included: Stevenage,
shareholders and other key stakeholders during their induction,
UK (as one of our two global R&D hubs), Boston, US, and our
and then on an ongoing basis. They are encouraged to report
Global HQ in Brentford
to the Board on such experiences where relevant and material.
– the Chair undertaking a range of site visits, including: Raleigh
Our people Durham, US, to meet with our ViiV employees, King’s Cross,
London where he met with our Artificial Intelligence and
We have well-established and strong engagement
Machine Learning team, as well as our Respiratory supply
mechanisms with our colleagues, which are described on
chain employees based in Ware, UK and Aranda, Spain
pages 10 and 11 and are monitored regularly by the Board.
Three key governance channels help communicate what our – the Chair and Corporate Responsibility Committee Chair
people are thinking to the Board: meeting with leaders of our employee resource groups
(ERGs) to discuss how they experience GSK as well as
– regular Board updates from our Chief People Officer and
hearing their views on progress with our diversity, equity and
the CEO on culture and talent
inclusion (DEI) agenda and ambitions
– feedback from a range of pulse surveys of varying sizes of
– utilising a variety of bespoke engagements that have
employee groups to help check sentiment and culture more
enabled a broad and open dialogue and facilitated first
quickly and frequently and provide valuable insights on the
hand engagement discussions between the NEDs and
impact of major initiatives, events or communications
our people individually and as part of small groups,
– direct engagement by the Board. Prior to the demerger, encompassing perspectives on our strategy, purpose
our designated Workforce Engagement Director, Dame and Ahead Together culture, and DEI
Vivienne Cox, had a specific mandate to connect with
our peopleGSK Annual Report 2022
Key decisions and engagements continued
Our shareholders Annual Governance Meeting
The Board seeks to directly engage with and be directly This year’s event was a hybrid meeting in central London.
accountable to institutional investors and private retail Institutional shareholders, key investment industry bodies and
shareholders. It seeks to discharge this direct and continuous proxy advisory firms were invited. Over 14 institutional
accountability in several ways. These include regular shareholders attended the event, representing approximately
communications, the Annual General Meeting, General 25% of the company's issued share capital. The Chair was
Meeting and our Annual Governance Meeting, and through the joined by our new SID, Committee Chairs and GSK’s external
work of our Investor Relations team, the Chair, Sir Jonathan audit partner and his successor.
Symonds, and our Company Secretary, Victoria Whyte. We shared with investors the priorities and focus of the Board
During the year, our CEO, Emma Walmsley, and CFO, Iain and its committees in 2022 and the progress made against
Mackay, gave quarterly results presentations to institutional them. This included:
investors, analysts and the media by webcast. They are also – the execution of a clear plan for separation of Haleon from
regularly joined by the CSO, the Chief Commercial Officer, and GSK with strong focus on shareholder value creation
CEO, ViiV Healthcare and GSK Global Health. They are able to
– the creation of two attractive and viable businesses with
provide investors with more detailed insights into their specific
compelling investment propositions
areas of responsibility.
– building two highly-qualified Boards to complement the
Through regular meetings, Emma and Iain have an ongoing
world class management teams
and active dialogue with institutional shareholders about our
performance, plans and objectives. In 2022 the CEO held a – re-architecting the GSK Board
total of 92 engagements with major shareholders, representing
– supporting the Haleon Board build
approximately 40% of the company's share register. The CFO
held a total of 113 such engagements with investors making up – the approval of a new binding Remuneration policy aligned
nearly 40% of the company's share register. to delivery of GSK's public growth and ESG commitments
announced at the Investor Update in June 2021 and
The Chair has always maintained a constant dialogue with
shareholders too – including fund and portfolio managers – – continuous engagement with shareholders and other
as well as engaging with governance and ESG professionals. stakeholders
During 2022 and up to the date of publication of this Report, The meeting was well-received and shareholder feedback was
the Chair held 27 meetings with a range of investors, who make shared subsequently with the full Board.
up approximately 35% of the company’s share register. This
Annual General Meeting
enables him to gain a current understanding of investor views,
We were pleased to be able to hold a hybrid meeting at the
insights and perspectives of the company. He discusses the
Sofitel Heathrow in May 2022. This was the first meeting we
many aspects of Board governance, oversight and succession.
were able to hold for in person attendance since the onset of
Charles Bancroft was appointed our new SID in July 2022, after
the COVID-19 pandemic. We were pleased to see an increase
the demerger of the Consumer Healthcare business. He has
in attendance by our shareholders compared to the 2021
been introducing himself to our shareholders to seek their views
AGM that had been held virtually at our registered office in
on GSK and discuss any key matters of importance. From his
Brentford. 94 shareholders joined the meeting in person and
appointment as SID to the date of publication of this Report he
68 shareholders joined virtually to watch or listen to updates
had 14 meetings with investors making up over 25% of our
from our Chair and the CEO, to ask questions, and vote. With
share register.
the exception of our proposed Remuneration policy resolution
The Chair, CEO and the rest of the Board had a particular focus which received shareholder approval of 62%, all our proposed
in 2022 on communicating the final process for demerging resolutions were approved by shareholders, with majorities
Haleon, the ambitions for GSK as a global biopharma business ranging from 91% to 99%.
beyond the demerger and progression of our pipeline over three
Our AGM this year will be held once again in a hybrid format
key focus periods: to 2026, 2026 to 2031 and 2031 and beyond.
at the Sofitel Heathrow. Shareholders will also have the
They also sought investors feedback on our new Remuneration
flexibility to be able to watch and listen, vote and ask questions
policy.
at the meeting virtually via the Lumi platform and to ask
questions via a video connection. See further details on
page 299.
General Meeting
In addition, the Board convened a General Meeting at Sofitel
Heathrow on 6 July 2022 to seek shareholder approvals to
authorise the demerger of Haleon and the related share
consolidation for GSK. The Chair, CEO and CFO were present in
person with the Company Secretary while the rest of the Board
joined the meeting virtually. 46 shareholders joined the meeting
in person and 99 shareholders joined virtually. Both resolutions
were approved by shareholders with majorities in excess of 99%.
116117
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
GSK Annual Report 2022
Board committee reports
ESG performance deep dives
Corporate Responsibility Committee report
Throughout the year the Committee has discussed with
management the following areas of our ESG focus.
Dr Anne Beal
Access and pricing principles: The Committee reviewed and
Corporate Responsibility Committee
recommended to the Board the adoption and publication of
I am pleased to present this report, which is my first as Chair of GSK’s Pricing and Access Principles (Principles).
the Corporate Responsibility Committee (the Committee).
The principles are a high-level articulation of management’s
I joined the Committee in May 2021 and succeeded Lynn current approach to pricing and access. They have been
Elsenhans as Chair in July 2022 after a comprehensive prepared with extensive internal and external consultation and
transition and handover. During her time as Chair, Lynn made had been validated with key audiences including patient
an outstanding contribution in overseeing, shaping and advocacy groups drawn from the US and UK.
embedding our Trust priority and our approach as a
The Committee, as part of its detailed input on these Principles,
responsible business, and, more recently, establishing the six
made sure that they captured:
areas of ESG focus for GSK as a pure biopharma company.
These six areas – detailed on pages 42 to 50 – directly – the impact value of GSK’s innovation in terms of economic
contribute to long-term shareholder value by contributing to benefit
our health impact, supporting thriving people and reducing
– health equity within and between countries
risk.
– the importance of the supply network for access and
I have been drawing on my extensive healthcare experience as
– that the Principles are sufficiently flexible to evolve over time
a physician and public health expert – including my time as
and are subject to regular review
Chief Patient Officer of Sanofi combined with my passion for
patient advocacy, to continue building on the Committee’s Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI): The Committee continues
work. I have framed the work and scrutiny of the Committee on to regularly assess the progress of GSK’s DEI approach and the
the following questions: key metrics identified to drive performance. Metrics to support
some of these areas form part of the new ESG Performance
– how do we as a company and Committee know how we are
Rating, which can be explored further on page 47.
performing across our ESG focus areas?
This work includes efforts to further increase our leadership
– can we challenge ourselves to further improve our
diversity, build a diverse talent pipeline and foster an inclusive
performance?
culture. The Committee was pleased to note the strong overall
– how we can best report to our key stakeholders on what we
progress that was being made towards the gender and
have done and the level of impact we have made?
ethnicity aspirations for 2025. In particular, it was pleased that
the US ethnic diversity aspiration of at least 30% had already
Driving the Board’s oversight for enhanced
been exceeded this year, while further work was being
ESG performance undertaken to increase Black VP representation in the UK.
A central element of the Committee’s work over the last 12 I firmly believe that GSK is doing some outstanding work in
months has been devoted to accelerating improvements in this area and have been pleased with how the Committee’s
how ESG performance is understood and managed. feedback is being utilised by management to further improve
performance for maximum impact.
The Committee agreed the introduction and disclosure of a
new ESG Performance Rating – one of our company KPIs as a The Committee also reviewed progress on efforts to broaden
key management tool to drive delivery of ESG across our six diversity of our clinical trial participants, grow our supplier
ESG focus areas. This rating has been derived from assessing diversity, improve health equity within countries and expand
the performance of a number of stretching, independently equitable access to STEM education.
assured metrics across the focus areas to arrive at a single
Environment: The Committee has recently reviewed progress
composite measure. The Committee has regularly monitored
on the company’s ambition for net zero impact on climate and
the company’s progress against these metrics during the
net positive impact on nature. The Committee is satisfied that
course of the year. We recommended to the Board the
good progress is being made to date, with a dual focus on
publication of a final on track ESG Rating for 2022 alongside maximising the success of the in-flight initiatives and
the other ESG disclosures in this Annual Report and our ESG
developing targeted actions to maintain momentum against
Performance Report. Further details can be found on page 42
stretching ambitions.
of the strategic report and within the ESG performance report,
Human rights: The Committee has reviewed management’s
available on gsk.com.
approach and progress on Human Rights including supply
chain and third party interactions. We have also considered the
complex and rapidly evolving legal and regulatory landscape
for Human Rights.GSK Annual Report 2022
Board committee reports continued
ESG disclosures and reporting: GSK’s capability in respect of Science Committee report
ESG reporting is continually evolving as we challenge ourselves
on how best to report clearly and concisely on our
Dr Jesse Goodman
performance. This is taking place against greater scrutiny on
ESG from all stakeholders, with ESG reporting increasingly Science Committee
moving from voluntary to mandatory. I am pleased to present this report as Chair of the Science
The Committee considers that GSK has a strong and mature Committee (the Committee) on our activities during 2022. It is
ESG reporting approach, but there is an opportunity to bring the first since the demerger of Consumer Healthcare as Haleon
the level of control of ESG data up to the same level as controls in July 2022.
for financial data. With this in mind, the Committee has
approved establishing an ESG data assurance hub to further Key activities in 2022
strengthen ESG data oversight. As a result of the demerger, GSK is now a pure biopharma
business with a goal of uniting Science, Technology and Talent
Collaborating with other Board committees to better prevent and treat disease. In R&D, we are combining
There has been a careful division of responsibilities and the power of genetic and genomic insights into what causes
allocation of the workload between this Committee and the disease, with the speed and scale of Artificial Intelligence and
Remuneration Committee, in respect of the introduction of Machine Learning to make better predictions about who a
specific ESG targets into our short- and long-term incentive treatment might work for, and why.
plans from the beginning of 2022. We have been monitoring This renewed focus has been evident in the Committee’s
and helping the Remuneration Committee determine vesting discussions for some time and I am excited for the future
outcomes. opportunities it brings for GSK and its patients. The
The Audit & Risk Committee (ARC) supported the Committee Committee’s key activities in 2022 can be split into the following
in its discussions over the introduction, measurement and key areas, which are covered in more detail below:
disclosure of the ESG Performance Rating. The Committee will – Pipeline reviews: monitoring of GSK’s pipeline
also work closely with the ARC from this year onwards over the
– Scientific deep-dives: discussion and analysis of the key
implementation and operation of enhanced ESG data
scientific themes which drive the company’s R&D strategy
assurance oversight and determinations, which the ARC Chair
sets out further in his report on page 125. – Business development: undertaking technical reviews and
assurance of the underlying science of potential business
Dr Anne Beal development transactions
Corporate Responsibility Committee Chair
9 March 2023 Pipeline progress
Fundamental to GSK’s achievement of its growth ambitions is
the delivery of a successful pipeline, which the Committee has
continued to monitor throughout the year.
During 2021, the Committee participated in the Chief Scientific
Officer (CSO) succession planning process. This led to the
appointment of Dr Tony Wood in August 2022. Dr Wood has
since continued to build on the outstanding progress made by
Dr Hal Barron. Prior to his appointment as CSO, Dr Wood was
integrally involved in delivering R&D productivity improvement
and helped develop GSK’s current R&D approach focused on
the science of the immune system, human genetics and
advanced technologies. Consequently, he was well-placed to
implement a pipeline to deliver on GSK’s bold ambitions for
patients.
An exceptional milestone during this year was the very
positive results from our late-stage respiratory syncytial
virus vaccine candidate. The vaccine demonstrated
unprecedented efficacy in older adults and has the potential
to help reduce disease and death from a major respiratory
infection which has not, until now, been vaccine preventable.
Our regulatory submission for the vaccine has been accepted
for review in Japan, accepted by the European Medicines
Agency under accelerated assessment and was submitted to
and granted Priority Review status by the US Food and Drug
Administration (FDA).
118119
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
GSK Annual Report 2022
Board committee reports continued
The Committee was also delighted with the positive phase III Spero Therapeutics: The licensing agreement with Spero
results for gepotidacin, a novel oral antibiotic, in the treatment Therapeutics for tebipenem HBr, a late-stage antibiotic that
of uncomplicated urinary tract infections. This is an important may treat complicated urinary tract infections. There is a
step in GSK’s continued scientific commitment and investment significant unmet medical need for a novel oral antibiotic that
to address antimicrobial resistance (AMR). can potentially provide an alternative to intravenous therapy,
particularly for patients with multi-drug resistant organisms.
Our licensing agreement with Spero Therapeutics (see below)
provides further evidence of our continued leadership and Wave Life Sciences: This collaboration brings together
focus in tackling infectious diseases and AMR. Wave's PRISMTM oligonucleotide platform and GSK's expertise
in genetics and genomics to drive the discovery and
A number of key approvals were also obtained during the year:
development of oligonucleotide therapeutics focusing
– FDA approval of Boostrix for immunisation during pregnancy on novel genetic targets.
for the prevention of whooping cough in newborn infants
Tempus: The collaboration with Tempus provides GSK with
– FDA approval of Menveo in a new single-vial presentation to access to Tempus’ AI-enabled platform including its library of
help prevent disease caused by meningococcal bacteria de-identified patient data – one of the world’s largest sources
serogroups A, C, Y and W of clinical and molecular data. Through its own leading AI/ML
– FDA approval of Priorix for the prevention of measles, mumps capability, GSK will work with Tempus both to identify new drug
and rubella in individuals 12 months of age and older targets and improve clinical trial design, speeding up
enrolment and completion, and accelerating the development
As well as having an exciting late-stage pipeline, we also now
of personalised treatments for patients.
have a robust early-stage portfolio with a number of innovative
programmes capable of transforming the lives of patients. GSK’s dedicated AI/ML team is the largest in-house strategic
function in the biopharma industry. Collaborations between
Business development transactions R&D and Technology within GSK have become increasingly
important in drug discovery, enabling GSK to more rapidly
GSK is viewing research and development holistically and
and effectively design new vaccines and medicines.
placing great importance on external as well as internal
innovation to source promising new medicines and vaccines.
Scientific deep-dives
During the year, the Committee continued to assess business
development transactions from a scientific perspective. The The Committee also dedicated a significant proportion of its
acceleration of business development will be key to support time to discussing some of the most exciting and innovative
GSK’s organic pipeline growth. Transactions reviewed by the areas of science which have been driving the company’s R&D
Committee during the year include: strategy. Deep-dives undertaken during the year include:
Sierra Oncology: The acquisition of Sierra Oncology, a – Phase 1 Pipeline review
biopharmaceutical company focused on targeted therapies – RNA based therapeutics and vaccines
for rare forms of cancer. The acquisition included momelotinib,
– Oncology
a new medicine with a unique dual mechanism of action
intended to address the critical unmet medical needs of In particular, the Committee’s discussion of RNA, including
myelofibrosis patients with anaemia. A new drug application oligonucleotide therapeutics, provided important insights into
for momelotinib for the treatment of myelofibrosis was emerging science with the potential to transform the lives of
accepted in August 2022 by the FDA and in December patients. In November 2022, the company published positive
2022 by the EMA. results from a phase IIb trial evaluating the safety and efficacy
of bepirovirsen – a potentially transformative treatment for
Affinivax: The acquisition of Affinivax, a clinical-stage
people living with chronic hepatitis B.
biopharmaceutical company, providing GSK with access to a
next generation pneumococcal vaccine candidate and highly The results offer an early indication that bepirovirsen might be
innovative Multiple Antigen Presenting System (MAPS) a potential treatment, either as monotherapy or in combination
technology. with other drugs, that could result in a functional cure. GSK’s
expertise in human genetics, functional genomics and AI/ML
Mersana Therapeutics: The collaboration with Mersana
to identify novel, genetically validated targets, as well as
Therapeutics for the co-development and commercialisation
our recent collaboration with Wave Life Sciences referred to
of XMT-2056, a first-in-class HER2 STING antibody drug
above, demonstrate that we are well-positioned to become
conjugate, initially for the treatment of advanced breast
a leader in oligo-based therapeutics.
cancer.GSK Annual Report 2022
Board committee reports continued
Committee changes Nominations & Corporate Governance
As previously mentioned, in August 2022 Dr Tony Wood Committee report
succeeded Dr Hal Barron as CSO. Tony is an outstanding and
Jonathan Symonds
highly respected scientist and the Committee had engaged
Nominations & Corporate Governance Committee
with him regularly in advance of his appointment. Dr Barron
transitioned to a Non-Executive Director and member of the I am pleased to present my fourth report as Chair of the
Committee. The Committee, and GSK, will therefore continue to Nominations & Corporate Governance Committee (the
benefit from his expert advice and support on scientific matters. Committee).
Dr Laurie Glimcher retired from the Board in October 2022.
Key activities in 2022
I would like to thank Laurie for her valuable expertise and
scientific insights contributed to the Committee during her During the year, the Committee continued its important role in
tenure. the process of:
Finally, having chaired the Committee since its inception – delivering the demerger of Haleon from the Group as a key
over six years ago, my rotation as Chair concluded effective Board governance workstream and
1 January 2023. Dr Hal Dietz, who joined the Committee on – creating two attractive and viable businesses with
1 January 2022, has succeeded me as Committee Chair. His compelling investment propositions, directed and overseen
experience in human genetics, which is central to GSK’s by highly capable boards
approach in R&D, has already proven invaluable in the
This was achieved in an orderly and targeted manner by
Committee’s discussions. He is an excellent successor in the
building two highly-qualified boards to complement their world
role of Chair.
class leadership teams through:
It has been a privilege to work with GSK's outstanding
– supporting the shaping and creation of the Haleon Board; and
scientists and leaders, as well as my fellow Committee
members, and to chair the Committee during what has been a – restructuring the GSK Board with a new focus and expertise
transformational period, both for the company and the for a pure biopharma business
scientific fields in which we operate. I remain a member of the
Committee and look forward to continuing the progress Haleon Board appointments
outlined today. In my report last year, I described the work of the Committee
in appointing the CEO, CFO and Chair designates of Haleon.
Dr Jesse Goodman
I also disclosed that two Non-Executive members of the GSK
Science Committee Chair (2017-2022)
Board were expected to transfer to the Haleon Board on
9 March 2023
completion of the demerger.
The Committee subsequently supported the Haleon Chair,
Sir Dave Lewis, in finalising the search for and the appointment
of high calibre non-executive directors to complete the Haleon
Board and its committees. The Board subsequently endorsed
the Committee’s recommendation to transition Vindi Banga
and Dame Vivienne Cox to the Haleon Board on completion
of the demerger. The Committee considered that the
Haleon Board would benefit from both their knowledge
and experience. They would also provide important continuity
for Haleon post-demerger.
Separately, the company’s Consumer Healthcare joint venture
partner (Pfizer) exercised its right to appoint two non-executive
directors to the Haleon Board.
Shaping our new biopharma Board
I previously described the process to transition the GSK Board as
a pure focused global biopharma company and the work
undertaken by the Committee in designing and planning the
optimal structure and composition of the new biopharma Board.
New Non-Executive Directors
The Committee wanted to ensure that new Non-Executive
Director appointments would further deepen the biopharma
skills, expertise and experience on the Board. A global search
process was activated to appoint directors with deep life sciences
commercial expertise and Artificial Intelligence and Machine
Learning (AI/ML) expertise. A diverse list of such candidates
was identified, shortlisted and then interviewed by Committee
members, the CEO, CSO and our Chief People Officer.
120121
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
GSK Annual Report 2022
Board committee reports continued
Following careful review, the Committee was pleased to The Committee proposed, and the Board approved, the
recommend the appointment of two high calibre individuals, appointment of Ms Julie Brown as successor to Iain Mackay as
Dr Vishal Sikka and Elizabeth McKee Anderson, as independent CFO. Julie, currently Chief Operating and Financial Officer at
Non-Executive Directors with effect from 18 July and Burberry Group plc, will join GSK in April 2023 and will work with
1 September 2022, respectively. Iain to transition his responsibilities. She will take on responsibilities
as CFO and as an Executive Director on 1 May 2023. Our CFO
Vishal has a very distinguished background as a world-leading
succession process is described in more detail below.
technologist and most particularly in the field of AI/ML, which
is not only central to GSK’s approach to R&D, but is also In the Committee’s view, the ideal successor to Iain was a
embraced across the Group. Meanwhile, Liz brings significant proven CFO of a global public company with deep
commercial understanding and experience in commercial biopharmaceutical experience. He or she would need to be an
biopharmaceuticals and is a seasoned biotech board member. effective business partner to the CEO in the successful delivery
Their contributions are already proving invaluable to the Board of GSK’s growth ambitions. It was also important to the
as a fully focused biopharma company. Committee that the successor be a good fit with our new
culture and have a high energy and a positive mindset.
Further details of Vishal and Liz’s experience and biographies
can be found on pages 100 and 97. The rationale for their A thorough global search was initiated against this agreed
appointments was included in the company’s announcements profile. A shortlist of viable candidates was identified for the
on 4 May and 24 August 2022 respectively. They are available role. The CEO, other members of the Committee, the Chief
on gsk.com. People Officer and I met with Julie and there was unanimous
support that she be recommended as Iain’s successor.
Dr Hal Dietz was appointed to the Board at the end of 2021, he
joined the Board as a designated Scientific and Medical Expert The Board is looking forward to welcoming Julie to GSK. She is
on 1 January 2022. He has extensive experience in the field of a highly respected CFO with extensive experience in the
human genetics, which is also central to GSK’s approach to biopharma and medtech sectors. Further details of Julie’s
R&D. The recruitment process for his appointment by the experience and the rationale for her appointment are included
Committee was described in my report last year. After in the company’s announcement on 24 September 2022, which
a year on the Board, Dr Dietz began his rotation as Science is available on gsk.com.
Committee Chair from 1 January 2023 in succession to Dr Jesse
GLT changes
Goodman.
In addition to the new CSO and CFO, the Committee has also
Senior Independent Director (SID) succession reviewed the following internal senior executive changes to the
Vindi Banga performed the role of SID for over six years. Vindi's GLT to help bring further simplification and alignment of the
transition to the Haleon Board on completion of the demerger GLT in these areas:
created the opportunity to appoint a successor. The
– Luke Miels, Chief Commercial Officer, assumed full
Committee determined that Charles Bancroft, having served
accountability for strategic commercial product
two years on the Board, with experience of working with
development of vaccines, alongside his current
investors from his role as CFO at Bristol Myers Squibb, a deep
accountabilities for strategic product development in
understanding of the pharma industry, his experience as a
Specialty and General Medicines and the commercial
non-executive director of listed companies and having
performance of the GSK portfolio in markets
sufficient time to dedicate to the role, made him the ideal
successor. He succeeded Vindi with effect from 18 July 2022. – Regis Simard, President Global Supply Chain, assumed
The Board fully endorsed his appointment. accountability for both Vaccines and Medicines supply
– Deborah Waterhouse, Chief Executive Officer ViiV
Continuing to shape the GSK Board for the Healthcare, assumed overall accountability for GSK Global
future Health
Management succession planning – Roger Connor, President of Vaccines and Global Health, left
GSK to progress a new role in healthcare, outside biopharma
I previously described the work of the Committee in the
appointment of Dr Tony Wood as successor to Dr Hal Barron The Committee continues to review our talent and succession
as CSO and a member of GLT. The transition of Drs Wood and pipelines and development plans for key management roles
Barron into the roles of CSO and Non-Independent Non- and their successors.
Executive Director took effect as planned on 1 August 2022.
Non-Executive Director succession planning
CFO succession The Committee regularly reviews the Board's composition and
When our CFO, Iain Mackay, advised the Board of his intention skills. It will be working with the Science Committee for the
to step down from the Board and leave the company, the potential to add a further Scientific and Medical Expert, as the
Committee activated its CFO succession plan. A targeted Board seeks to further contribute to our biopharma skills and
search of high-quality executives for CFO succession had expertise to support our growth ambitions. The Committee
already been undertaken against a role profile for the next is also looking to identify a successor to Urs Rohner, our
CFO for GSK as a pure biotech. Remuneration Committee Chair, who is due to retire from
the Board in 2024.
I look forward to providing further updates on these roles
next year.GSK Annual Report 2022
Board committee reports continued
Composition and tenure
Non-Executive tenure Industry experience
Number of Board members
10
8
Up to 3 years 56%
6
3-6 years 22%
4
6-9 years 22%
2
0
Life sciences Tech Finance Consumer
2019 (pre-demerger) 2022 (post-demerger)
The Board seeks to balance its composition and tenure, and pure biopharma company, including life sciences, the
that of its committees, and to refresh them over time. This pharmaceuticals industry, R&D and Tech, vaccines and
enables the Board to benefit from the experience of longer- healthcare, medical research and academia and financial
serving Directors as well as the fresh perspectives and insights services. Collectively they have a wealth of experience of
from newer appointees. Our Non-Executive Directors are now complex businesses with global reach.
drawn from industries and backgrounds most relevant to a
Diversity, equity and inclusion
Ethnicity Gender1
% female composition
50
40
Ethnically diverse 18%
30
White 82%
20
10
0
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024
(post-CFO
Historic Expected succession)
Demerger
refocus
1 T arget female representation on Board is 40%. Data from GSK Annual Report published in the first quarter of each year. Current female representation is 27.2% at the
date of publication. This is expected to rise to 36% in May 2023 post-CFO succession
We are committed to the diversity of our Board, just as GSK is attributes, including character, intellect, judgement, honesty
committed to equal opportunities for all employees at all levels and courage.
of our organisation. The Board and management seek to
The Committee is responsible for developing measurable
encourage a diverse and inclusive culture throughout the
objectives and monitoring progress towards their achievement
company.
to assist the implementation of the Board’s diversity policy
An effective Board needs a range and balance of skills, (Policy), including gender and ethnic diversity. As a minimum,
experience, knowledge, ethnicity, gender, social-economic we seek to align our Policy objectives with the Financial
backgrounds and independence, with individuals who are Conduct Authority, FTSE Women Leaders Review and Parker
prepared to challenge each other collaboratively. This mix Review diversity targets and ensure that they are consistent
needs to be complemented by a diversity of personal Board with our public diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) aspirations.
B oard and GLT gender diversity
Diversity objective Status Performance
At least 40% of Board positions held by women Below objective 27.2%
At least one woman either in the Chair, SID role on the Board and/or one Met objective One Director (CEO)
woman in the Chief Executive Officer or Finance Director role by the end of 2025
At least 40% of GLT positions held by women Met objective 41.7%
At least one Board Director is ethnically diverse Exceed objective Two Directors
122123
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
GSK Annual Report 2022
Board committee reports continued
In May 2023, when Julie Brown becomes our new CFO, female We also continue to oversee the developing pipeline of direct
Board representation will stand at 36%. GSK will then have one reports to the GLT by gender and from ethnically diverse
of the very few all-female Executive Boards running a FTSE 100 backgrounds.
company. We also expect to fully restore our Board gender
Details of GSK’s representation of women and ethnically
diversity to meet or exceed 40% by 2024.
diverse leaders is covered on page 47, as part of the diversity
The Board has been pleased that for many years its gender of our global workforce. Progress against our DEI
representation objective has been in excess of the target of over commitments, including gender and ethnicity, is illustrated
40% of Board positions being held by women. This is illustrated in our ESG Performance Report on gsk.com. This good
on the previous page of my Committee report. The composition progress has also been incentivised by the introduction of
and diversity of the Board is currently in a transitional period an ESG: DEI measure in the annual bonus arrangements
following the demerger and the reshaping of the Board for the for our Executive Directors and other GLT members.
new biopharma company, the transfer of Board members to
Haleon and the retirement of two female Board Directors.
Board committee and GLT membership and role changes in 2022
Director/GLT member Membership/Role Appointment date Retirement date
Elizabeth McKee Anderson Audit & Risk and Remuneration committees 1 September
Dr Hal Barron Science Committee (following transition to role of 1 August
Non-Executive Director)
Charles Bancroft Science Committee 8 February
(stepped down after
Dr Hal Dietz joined the
Committee)
Senior Independent Director 18 July
Remuneration Committee 18 July
Vindi Banga Audit & Risk, Nominations & Corporate Governance 18 July
and Remuneration committees
Senior Independent Director
Dr Anne Beal Corporate Responsibility Committee Chair 4 May
Nominations & Corporate Governance and 18 July
Remuneration committees
Audit & Risk Committee 25 October
Dame Vivienne Cox Corporate Responsibility and Remuneration committees 18 July
Dr Hal Dietz Science Committee 1 January
Science Committee Chair 1 January 2023
Lynn Elsenhans Corporate Responsibility Committee Chair 4 May
Audit & Risk, Corporate Responsibility and Nominations 18 July
& Corporate Governance committees
Dr Jesse Goodman Science Committee Chair 31 December
Dr Laurie Glimcher Audit & Risk and Science committees 10 October
Urs Rohner Audit & Risk Committee 18 July
Dr Vishal Sikka Corporate Responsibility Committee 18 July
Roger Connor President, Global Vaccines 1 December
Dr Tony Wood Chief Scientific Officer and GLT member 1 AugustGSK Annual Report 2022
Board committee reports continued
Audit & Risk Committee report
Ways of working
The Committee seeks to follow best practice in all the Charles Bancroft
appointments it recommends, agreeing the criteria for Audit & Risk Committee
each role, the most appropriate interview panel, before
I am pleased to present this report, which is my second as
then considering a comprehensive and diverse long list of
Chair of the Audit & Risk Committee (the Committee).
candidates. Shortlisted candidates are interviewed and
assessed against the chosen criteria. Due diligence is then In my report last year, I spoke about my initial, very favourable,
undertaken before the Committee makes its final impressions of the people, processes, systems and culture at
recommendation. Executive search firms are appointed in GSK that underpin the successful management of financial
accordance with the company’s procurement policy reporting, audit, litigation and compliance risks. I am pleased
based on their expertise relative to each role. to report that GSK continues to exhibit a strong compliance
culture with a consistent tone and engagement from the top
The Committee has agreed that only search firms who are
that runs throughout the organisation, and the financial
signatories to the Voluntary Code of Conduct of Executive
reporting and controls framework remains robust and did not
Search Firms on gender diversity and best practice will be
require any fundamental changes during the year.
engaged.
The Committee worked with a number of executive search Key activities in 2022
firms in 2022, who provided additional consultancy
Key decisions: As usual, it has been a busy year for the
services to the company as outlined below:
Committee. Not only working through its regular programme of
– Korn Ferry: general recruitment, executive search and activities, but making important decisions in support of the
assessment services, coaching and other HR-related Board’s progression of its key priorities, in summary:
services
– recommended to the Board approval of the planned
– Egon Zehnder: executive search, assessment and separation of our Consumer Healthcare business in July
coaching services to specific senior executives 2022, based on the Committee’s awareness and review of
the transaction and Haleon’s operational readiness, and the
– Heidrick & Struggles: executive search services
approval of final issuance of public documents and entry
The Committee reviewed the potential for conflicts of into associated legal agreements
interest and judged that there were appropriate
– exercised oversight for the Zantac product liability litigation
safeguards against such conflicts.
by which I provided regular reports to the Board on progress
– conducted a robust review process, together with the CFO,
I look forward to reporting further progress in next year's report. to select and appoint a replacement to the current lead
audit partner, who under the five-year audit partner rotation
Sir Jonathan Symonds
rules, rotates off after the publication of this Annual Report.
Nominations & Corporate Governance Committee Chair
Further details are set out on page 128
9 March 2023
Completion of the demerger
I highlighted, in my report last year, details of the technical
work of the Committee as a key demerger governance
workstream. This included overseeing the evolution of financial
reporting matters, risk and controls and the public documents
associated with delivering the demerger and listing to form
Haleon. This work continued and intensified through the first
half of 2022 to the point at which the Committee was able to
complete its review processes and recommend the approval
of the GSK Circular, Haleon Prospectus and Form 20-F and
associated documents and matters to the Board. Separately,
the Committee reviewed the processes to establish financial
reporting systems and development of a robust internal control
and risk management framework for Haleon. This was a
significant and critical demerger workstream that was
successfully delivered months prior to the demerger on a
business-as-usual basis.
124125
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
GSK Annual Report 2022
Board committee reports continued
Information and cyber security Audit quality indicators
This is one of our principal risks which is regularly on the Audit Quality Indicators (AQIs) are quantitative and qualitative
Committee’s agenda. During 2022 the Committee oversaw the measures of external audit quality at an audit firm-level, an
merging of programme deliverables into an updated Cyber engagement level and from a management or company
Maturity Plan (CMP) with additional capabilities to continue to perspective. Together with our lead audit partner, I was
get ahead of a dynamic threat environment. The Committee pleased to participate in a project carried out by the FRC to
has also reviewed the benchmarking of our target cyber identify the most useful engagement level AQIs relevant for the
maturity against an industry best-practice framework, known audit to help improve transparency and drive audit quality
as the National Institute of Standards and Technology Cyber improvements. Our engagement with the FRC focused on our
Security Framework (NIST-CSF) and these learnings have been most recent Annual Report and considered the interactions
incorporated into the CMP. The Committee will continue to between the auditor and the Committee during the audit
perform regular assessments of delivery against the Plan to process. We had a constructive dialogue and one which I hope
further enhance the capabilities and maturity of our cyber was helpful to the FRC in progressing its work in promoting key
security framework. I am pleased that the Committee’s drivers of audit quality.
oversight in this area has been further strengthened this year
with the expertise of my fellow Board Director colleague, Committee aims in 2023
Dr Vishal Sikka, who advises the Committee on this enterprise The Committee’s remit has expanded from 2023 onwards as
risk. Vishal has a distinguished career in the Tech industry and the Board has requested that it exercise oversight and review
served as CEO of Infosys Limited and provides the Committee of GSK’s ESG data assurance work. In doing so, the Committee
and management with valuable insights. is currently overseeing the build and implementation of a new
dedicated ESG data assurance hub in our Finance
Key risk indicators organisation to support this.
For several years now, our Compliance function has worked
The hub will ensure minimum standards of controls,
with risk owners and management to develop and report to the
governance and data quality to assure the accuracy of ESG
Committee on key risk indicators (KRIs) at an enterprise level
data in support of the company’s performance against ESG
and across our markets. As a core part of this process, we
metrics and compliance with new ESG reporting requirements.
have been using enhancements in our technology and data
Meanwhile, our Corporate Responsibility Committee, on behalf
analytics capabilities to employ a more data-driven approach
of the Board, continues to exercise oversight of ESG strategy,
to risk management across a constantly evolving risk
performance assessment and reporting.
landscape to further strengthen our compliance oversight
and culture.
Internal control framework
Earlier this year, the Committee examined a review of our The Board recognises its obligation to present a fair, balanced
principal risks resulting in a simplified process with fewer KRIs, and understandable assessment of GSK’s current position and
new KRIs, some revised definitions, and prioritisation of the prospects. Reflecting this responsibility, it is accountable for
most meaningful indicators for the company. The Committee evaluating and approving the effectiveness of GSK’s internal
was pleased to note that this simpler approach would result controls, including financial, operational and compliance
in more focus on fewer KRIs reported to Risk Oversight & controls, and risk management processes.
Compliance Council (ROCC) which then reports to the
We ensure the reliability of our financial reporting, and
Committee, with a greater focus being brought to bear on
compliance with laws and regulations, through our internal
escalation of issues or concerns that are material to GSK.
control framework. This is a comprehensive enterprise-wide risk
Meanwhile, operational data, monitoring findings and other
management model which supports the Board’s continuous
established risks would continue to be analysed by risk owners
identification, evaluation and management of the Group’s
to ensure appropriate risk mitigation continues and escalation,
principal and emerging risks, as required by the FRC’s Code.
if necessary.
The framework is designed to manage the risk of GSK not
achieving its business objectives.
Zantac litigation oversight
During the year, primary oversight for Zantac litigation, A fit-for-purpose framework – complemented by our corporate
the related accounting, disclosure and communication culture and Speak Up processes – ensures that the risks
assessments has continued to be undertaken by the associated with our business activities are actively and effectively
Committee. I then report the Committee’s conclusions on these controlled in line with our agreed risk appetite. We believe GSK’s
matters to the Board. The Committee continues to receive framework provides reasonable, but not absolute, assurance
regular legally privileged updates. In December 2022, we against material misstatement or loss.
welcomed the ruling by the United States District Court
(Southern District of Florida) which dismissed all federal cases
alleging the five remaining cancers in the Multi-District
Litigation. We will continue to defend all claims brought at
State level vigorously based on the science.GSK Annual Report 2022
Board committee reports continued
The Board mandates the Group’s ROCC of senior leaders to In 2022, through the authority delegated to the Committee, the
assist the Committee in overseeing risk management and Board conducted a robust assessment of the Group’s principal
internal control activities. It also provides the business with a risks. This assessment, which was in line with the FRC’s Code,
framework for risk management and upward escalation of included consideration of the nature and extent of risk the
significant risks. Risk Management and Compliance Boards Board is willing to take in achieving GSK’s strategic objectives.
(RMCBs) across the Group promote the ‘tone from the top’ and
The Board, via the Committee, also oversaw the effectiveness
establish our risk culture, as well as ensuring effective oversight
of our internal control environment and risk management
of internal controls and risk management processes.
processes across the Group for the whole year, up to the
Each principal risk has an assigned risk owner, drawn from approval date of this Annual Report.
senior management, who is accountable for managing the
A review of the Group’s risk management approach is further
principal risk with oversight from a GLT member, which includes
discussed in the ‘Risk management’ section of the strategic
setting and implementing risk mitigation plans. Risk owners
report on pages 51 to 64.
report quarterly on their respective risk management approach
and progress at the ROCC and the appropriate Board The management of each principal risk is explained in
Committee. Our Compliance function assists the ROCC and ‘Principal risks and uncertainties’ on pages 285 to 295. The
RMCBs. Compliance is responsible for advancing enterprise- Group’s viability is discussed in the Group risk management
wide risk management and for developing risk-based and section of the strategic report on page 64.
ethically sound working practices. It also actively promotes
ethical behaviours by enabling all employees to operate in line Significant issues relating to the financial
with our culture and comply with applicable laws and statements
regulations. In considering GSK’s quarterly financial results announcements
Our Audit & Assurance (A&A) function provides independent and the financial results in the 2022 Annual Report, the
assurance to senior management and the Board on the Committee reviewed the significant issues and management
effectiveness of risk management Group-wide, in line with an judgements in determining those results. It reviewed management
agreed assurance plan. This helps senior management and the papers setting out the key areas of risk, actions taken to quantify
Board to meet their oversight and advisory responsibilities in the effects of the relevant issues, and judgements made by
fulfilling GSK’s strategic objectives and building trust with management on the appropriate accounting required to address
patients and other stakeholders. A&A has a dual reporting line those issues in the financial statements.
to the CFO and the Committee. The significant issues considered in relation to the financial
The Committee receives regular reports from principal risk statements for the year ended 31 December 2022 are set out in
owners, Compliance and A&A on areas of significant risk to the the following table, with a summary of the financial outcomes
Group and on related internal controls. These reports assess where appropriate. The Committee and the external auditor have
the internal control environment within each principal risk area, discussed the significant issues addressed by the Committee
including enhancements to strengthen controls. Following during the year and the areas of particular audit focus, as
consideration of these reports, the Committee reports annually described in the Independent Auditor’s Report on pages 168
to the Board on the effectiveness of GSK’s internal controls. to 181.
126127
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
GSK Annual Report 2022
Board committee reports continued
Significant issues considered by the Committee
in relation to the financial statements How the issue was addressed by the Committee
Going concern basis for the preparation The Committee considered the outcome of management’s half-yearly and year-end
of the financial statements reviews of current and forecast net debt positions and the various financing facilities
and options available to the Group. The Committee also considered management’s
review of the impacts of the current economic environment and climate change
impacts. Following consideration of these assessments, which included stress testing
and viability scenarios, sources of liquidity and funding, forecasts and estimates, the
Committee confirmed that the application of the going concern basis for the
preparation of the financial statements continued to be appropriate.
Revenue recognition, including returns The Committee reviewed management’s approach to the timing of recognition of
and rebates (RAR) accruals revenue and accruals for customer returns and rebates. The RAR accrual for US
Commercial Operations was £5.9 billion at 31 December 2022 and the Committee
reviewed the basis on which the accrual had been made and concurred with
management’s judgements on the amounts involved. A fuller description of the
process operated in US Commercial Operations in determining the level of accrual
necessary is set out in ‘Critical accounting policies’ on pages 94 and 95.
Provisions for legal matters, including The Committee received detailed reports on actual and potential litigation from both
investigations into the Group’s internal and external legal counsel including the Zantac litigation, together with a
commercial practices number of detailed updates on investigations into the Group’s commercial practices.
Management outlined the levels of provision and corresponding disclosure
considered necessary in respect of potential adverse litigation outcomes and also
those areas where it was not yet possible to determine if a provision was necessary,
or its amount. At 31 December 2022, the provision for legal matters was £0.2 billion,
see Note 32 to the financial statements, ‘Other provisions’ for more details.
Provisions for uncertain tax positions The Committee considered current tax disputes and areas of potential risk and
concurred with management’s judgement on the levels of tax contingencies required.
At 31 December 2022, a tax payable liability of £0.6 billion, including provisions for
uncertain tax positions, was recognised on the Group’s balance sheet.
Impairments of intangible assets The Committee reviewed management’s process for reviewing and testing goodwill
and other intangible assets for potential impairment. The Committee accepted
management’s judgements on the intangible assets that required writing down and
the resulting impairment charge of £402 million in 2022. See Note 20 to the financial
statements, ‘Other intangible assets’ for more details.
Valuation of contingent consideration The Committee considered management’s judgement that it was necessary to
in relation to ViiV Healthcare increase the liability to pay contingent consideration primarily as a result of updated
exchange rate assumptions as well as increases in sales forecasts and the unwind of
the discount. After cash payments of nearly £1.1 billion in the year, at 31 December
2022, the Groups’ balance sheet included a contingent consideration liability of
£5.9 billion in relation to ViiV Healthcare. See Note 33 to the financial statements,
‘Contingent consideration liabilities’ for more details.
ViiV Healthcare put option The Committee reviewed and agreed the accounting for the Pfizer put option
and concurred with management’s judgement on the valuation of the put option
of £1.1 billion at 31 December 2022.
Consumer Healthcare demerger The Committee reviewed management’s process for presenting Consumer
Healthcare as a discontinued operation and the subsequent demerger accounting.
The gain on the demerger of £10.1 billion included significant values relating to the
fair value of assets distributed and ownership in Haleon retained, the net assets
and non-controlling interest distributed/de-recognised and the cumulative foreign
exchange recycled. See Note 41 ‘Acquisitions and Disposals’ to the financial
statements for more details.GSK Annual Report 2022
Board committee reports continued
Effectiveness and quality of external – auditor’s independence, qualifications, objectivity, expertise
and resources
audit process
The Committee is committed to ensuring that GSK receives The Committee therefore agreed to recommend the
a high-quality and effective external audit. In evaluating reappointment of Deloitte to the Board at the forthcoming
Deloitte’s performance during 2021, prior to making a AGM. In making its recommendation, the Committee was free
recommendation on its reappointment in early 2022, the from the influence of any third party.
Committee reviewed the effectiveness of its performance
against the criteria which it agreed with management at the Auditor’s reappointment
beginning of 2021. The detailed criteria used for judging the External auditor
effectiveness of Deloitte as external auditor are available on
External auditor appointment
gsk.com. These are based on the audit approach and strategy,
Last tender May – December 2016
ensuring a high-quality independent audit, effective
partnership and value for money. Transition year 2017
The Committee monitors engagements with external First shareholder approval of current May 2018
auditor
stakeholders relevant to the Committee’s areas of oversight,
including the FRC and Securities and Exchange Commission. First audited Annual Report and 20-F Year ending 31 December 2018
During the year the FRC’s Audit Quality Review (AQR) team New lead audit engagement partner 2023
reviewed Deloitte’s audit of the Group’s 2021 financial
Next audit tender required by regulations 2026 (to take effect from 2028)
statements as part of its annual inspection of audit firms.
The Committee received and reviewed the final report from There were no contractual or similar obligations restricting the
the AQR team which identified no key findings, assessed the Group’s choice of external auditor.
audit as requiring limited improvement and noted several
areas of good practice. Audit partner rotation
The Committee sought to ensure that Deloitte would deliver The external auditor is required to rotate the audit
a smooth, thorough and efficiently-executed audit for 2022. engagement partner for GSK every five years.
In undertaking its review, the Committee considered:
Our current audit partner is due to step down from their
– the overall quality of the audit
position after the audit of GSK’s financial statements for 2022
– the independence of Deloitte has been concluded.
– whether Deloitte exhibited an appropriate level of challenge After a robust review process by the Committee, together with
and scepticism in its work the involvement of the CFO, to select their replacement, the
Deloitte’s length of tenure was not taken into account when Committee approved the appointment of the next audit
assessing its independence and objectivity, given it only engagement partner with effect from the financial year
commenced its role as auditor in 2018. However, the commencing on 1 January 2023.
Committee did consider how effectively it had assumed its role
The Committee is satisfied that Deloitte has been managing
as auditor. The Committee also considered feedback on the
an orderly handover to the new audit engagement partner to
2022 external audit, through a survey of Committee members
ensure there is a seamless transition and maintenance of high
and the financial management team at corporate and
levels of audit quality and effectiveness.
business unit level. The survey covered the:
– effectiveness of the auditor’s challenge Audit tender
– integrity of Deloitte The Committee considers that during 2022 the company
– transparency of its reporting to management and the complied with the mandatory audit processes and audit
Committee committee responsibility provisions of the Competition and
Markets Authority Statutory Audit Services Order 2014.
– clarity of the auditor’s communications and ways of working
– alignment of the 2021 audit to the Group’s investment in As Deloitte continues to maintain its independence and
Systems, Applications and Products (SAP) objectivity, and the Committee remains satisfied with its
performance, GSK does not intend to tender the external
– quality of the audit team’s leadership and
auditor contract before the end of the current required period
– skills and experience of the audit team of 10 years identified above and considers that this is in the
best interests of shareholders. The Committee is mindful that
The Committee Chair regularly meets independently with the
the 2023 financial year will see a new CFO for GSK and audit
audit partners. The Committee also meets with the auditor
partner for Deloitte, which will help further mitigate the risks of
privately at the end of each meeting to discuss progress, as
any over-familiarity between the company and the auditor.
appropriate. Having reviewed the above feedback, and noted
any areas of improvement to be implemented by the audit
team for 2023, the Committee was satisfied with the:
– effectiveness of the auditor and the external audit process
and
128129
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
GSK Annual Report 2022
Board committee reports continued
Non-audit services The fees paid to the company's auditor and its associates are
set out overleaf. Further details are given in Note 8 to the
Management operates on the presumption that other
financial statements, ‘Operating profit’ on page 199.
accountancy firms will provide non-audit services to GSK.
However, where the external auditor’s skills and experience During the year, fees for audit-related and other assurance
make it the only suitable supplier of non-audit support – such services of £6.3 million included £4.4 million related to the
as for audit-related matters, tax and other services – it may be continued work in the year associated with Deloitte's reporting
used, in the best interests of the company. In line with GSK’s accountant role in preparing for the demerger of the Consumer
non-audit services policy, the Committee ensures that auditor Healthcare business. Including audit fees in respect of the GSK
objectivity and independence are safeguarded by reviewing pension schemes of £0.2 million, fees for audit-related and
and pre-approving the external auditor’s provision of such other assurance services represent 31.6% of the annual audit
services. The company policy complies with the FRC’s 2019 service fee (2021: 15.2%). Excluding the demerger work and
Revised Ethical Standard and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. quarterly review work, fees for audit-related and other
It observes the following core policy features on engaging the assurance services would have represented 4.4% of the
external auditor for non-audit services: annual audit fee.
GSK non-audit services policy, key features: The Committee's rationale for originally hiring Deloitte to
undertake the reporting accountant role is set out on page 115
Process: All non-audit services over £50,000 are put to competitive of GSK's 2021 Annual Report.
tender with other financial services providers, in line with the
Group’s procurement process, unless the skills and The Committee considered the level of non-audit services
experience of the external auditor make it the only suitable incurred as part of its annual review of Deloitte’s independence
supplier.
set out on the previous page and was satisfied that the auditor
Safeguards: Adequate safeguards are established so that the continued to be independent and exercised objectivity
objectivity and independence of the Group audit are not throughout 2022.
threatened or compromised.
Fee cap: The total fee payable for non-audit services should not Fair, balanced and understandable assessment
exceed 50% of the annual audit fee, except in special
circumstances where there would be a clear advantage in The need for an annual report to be fair, balanced and
the auditor undertaking the additional work. understandable is one of the key compliance requirements for
a company’s financial statements. To ensure that GSK’s Annual
Prohibitions: GSK’s policy includes a ‘whitelist’ of permitted non-audit
services in line with the relevant regulations. Any service not Report meets this requirement, we have a well-established and
on this list is prohibited. documented process governing the coordination and review of
Pre-approval: All non-audit services require pre-approval as set out in the Group-wide contributions to the publication. This runs in
table below to ensure services approved are consistent parallel with the process followed by the external auditor. The
with GSK’s non-audit policy for permissible services. This Committee received a summary of management’s approach
process ensures all services fall within the scope of services
to GSK’s 2022 Annual Report to ensure it met the requirements
permitted and pre-approved by the Committee and does
of the FRC’s Code. This enabled the Committee, and the
not represent a delegation of authority for pre-approval.
Board, to confirm that GSK’s 2022 Annual Report as a whole is
Value Pre-approver
fair, balanced and understandable and provides the necessary
More than £50,000 Committee Chair and CFO
information for shareholders to assess the company’s position
Between £25,000 and Group Financial Controller
and performance, business model and strategy.
£50,000
Under £25,000 Designate of the Group Code of Conduct and reporting lines
Financial Controller
We have a number of well-established policies (including a
new Code of Conduct), which are available on gsk.com,
Audit and other services comparison (£m) together with details of our confidential Speak Up lines for
reporting and investigating unlawful conduct.
2022 1.4 6.5 2300..63
Charles Bancroft
Audit & Risk Committee Chair
9 March 2023
2021 4.2 26.2 27.7
2020 1.8 26.6 28.3
0 10 20 30
Audit and assurance services
Other services, including tax, regulatory, compliance and treasury-related
services
Services relating to the Consumer Healthcare demerger preparation
Note 8 to the financial statements provides further details of fees payable to
the company's auditor.GSK Annual Report 2022
Directors’ report
Directors' powers The Nominations & Corporate Governance Committee
reviewed the register of potential conflict authorisations (the
Our Directors’ powers are determined by UK legislation and
Register of Conflicts) in January 2022. The Committee
our Articles of Association, which contain rules about the
reported to the Board that the conflicts had been
appointment and replacement of Directors. They provide that
appropriately authorised and that the process for
Directors may be appointed by an ordinary resolution of the
authorisation continued to operate effectively. The Committee
members or by a resolution of the Board, provided that, if
then recommended the approval of the Register of Conflicts to
appointed by the Board, the Director retires at the next Annual
the Board which it subsequently approved. Except as
General Meeting following their appointment.
described in Note 40 to the financial statements, ‘Related
Our Articles also provide that all Directors are required to seek party transactions’, during or at the end of the financial year no
re-election annually at the Annual General Meeting in Director or Person Closely Associated had any material interest
accordance with the FRC's Code. in any contract of significance with a Group company.
A Director will cease to be a Director if he or she: Our Articles prohibit a Director from voting on any resolution
– becomes bankrupt concerning his or her appointment or the terms or termination
of his or her appointment.
– ceases to be a Director by virtue of the Companies Act or
the Articles
Independent advice
– suffers mental or physical ill health and the Board resolves
The company has an agreed procedure for Directors to take
that he or she shall cease to be a Director
independent legal and/or financial advice at the company’s
– has missed Directors’ meetings for a continuous period of expense where they deem it necessary.
six months without permission and the Board resolves that
he or she shall cease to be a Director Indemnification of Directors
– is prohibited from being a Director by law Qualifying third party indemnity provisions (as defined in the
Companies Act 2006) are in force for the benefit of Directors
– resigns, or offers to resign and the Board accepts that offer
and former Directors who held office during 2022 and up to
– is required to resign by the Board the approval and signature of the Annual Report.
Directors’ conflicts of interest Change of control and essential contracts
All Directors have a duty under the Companies Act 2006 to We do not have contracts or other arrangements which
avoid a situation in which they have, or could have, a direct or individually are fundamental to the ability of the business to
indirect conflict of interest or possible conflict with the operate effectively. Neither is the company party to any
company. Our Articles provide a general power for the Board material agreements that would take effect, be altered, or
to authorise such conflicts. terminate upon a change of control following a takeover bid.
We do not have agreements with any Director that would
The Board reviews any new potential or actual conflict, which
provide compensation for loss of office or employment
is recorded by the Company Secretary. Directors are not
resulting from a takeover, except that provisions of the
counted in the quorum for the authorisation of their own actual
company’s share plans may cause options and awards
or potential conflicts. The Nominations & Corporate
granted under such plans to vest on a takeover.
Governance Committee reviews the Register of Conflicts on an
annual basis which the Board subsequently approves. Details of the termination provisions in the Executive Directors’
service contracts are given in the full version of the company’s
On a continuing basis, the Directors are responsible for
2022 Remuneration policy which is available on gsk.com
informing the Company Secretary of any such new actual or
in the Investors section.
potential conflicts that may arise or if there are any changes in
circumstances that may affect an authorisation previously
given. Even when provided with authorisation, a Director is not
absolved from his or her statutory duty to promote the success
of the company. If an actual conflict arises post-authorisation,
the Board may choose to exclude the Director from receipt of
the relevant information and participation in the debate, or
suspend the Director from the Board, or, as a last resort,
require the Director to resign.
130131
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
GSK Annual Report 2022
Directors’ report continued
The following information is also incorporated into the
Content of the Directors’ report
Directors’ report:
For the purposes of the UK Companies Act 2006, the
Location in Annual Report
Directors’ report of GSK plc for the year ended 31 December
Interest capitalised Financial statements,
2022 comprises:
Notes 17 and 20
Publication of unaudited financial Group financial review,
Directors’ report
information page 65
Section Pages Details of any long-term incentive schemes Remuneration report
Corporate governance report 96 to 131 Waiver of emoluments by a Director Not applicable
Employee engagement 115 Waiver of future emoluments by a Director Not applicable
Directors’ statements of responsibilities 166 and 167
Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash Not applicable
Investor information 273 to 314
Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash Not applicable
The strategic report sets out those matters required to be by any unlisted major subsidiary undertaking
disclosed in the Directors’ report which are considered to Parent company participation in a placing Not applicable
be of strategic importance: by a listed subsidiary
Provision of services by a controlling Not applicable
Strategic report shareholder
Shareholder waiver of dividends Financial statements,
Section Pages
Notes 16 and 45
Risk management objectives and policies 51 to 64 and
285 to 295 Shareholder waiver of future dividends Financial statements,
Notes 16 and 44
Likely future developments of the company 1 to 95
Agreements with controlling shareholders Not applicable
Research and development activities 15 to 28
Business relationships 49 and 50 The Directors’ report
Diversity 47 – has been drawn up and presented in accordance with and in
Provision of information to and consultations with 10, 11 and 47 reliance upon English company law and the liabilities of the
employees Directors in connection with that Report shall be subject to
Carbon emissions 45 and 46 the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
Section 172 statement 112 to 114 – was approved by the Board of Directors on 9 March 2023
and and signed on its behalf by:
throughout
10 to 63
Sir Jonathan Symonds
Chair
9 March 2023GSK Annual Report 2022
Remuneration
In this section
Committee Chair’s annual statement 133
Annual report on remuneration 136
2022 Remuneration policy summary 158
132133
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
GSK Annual Report 2022
Remuneration report
Committee Chair’s annual statement
Dear Shareholder, We engaged extensively with shareholders to gain their views
and feedback on these changes. Please see the table below
On behalf of the Remuneration Committee, I am pleased to
which sets out the full details of this process.
present our Remuneration report for 2022. This includes my
annual statement, explaining the Committee’s work this year, As a result, we made adjustments to quantum, clarity on
our annual report on remuneration for 2022, a summary of our disclosure of outcomes, and transparency in relation to the
Remuneration policy which was approved by shareholders at targets set, that all feature in the final policy.
the 2022 AGM, and details of how we propose to operate the
At the 2022 AGM, the new policy was approved with 62% of
Policy this year.
shareholders voting in favour, but the Committee recognises
that a significant minority of shareholders voted against.
GSK’s Remuneration policy 2022
Following the AGM, the Committee ensured continued
As detailed last year, we introduced a new Remuneration consultation with shareholders to understand the full range
policy in 2022 to better link executive remuneration to delivery of views, including those who voted against the proposals.
of outperformance. The Committee thanks shareholders for their feedback and
The new arrangements were designed to reward the delivery remains committed to engaging on remuneration. It continues
of the bold new performance ambitions set out at our Investor to believe that incentivising outperformance against stretching
Update in 2021 – to deliver sales growth of more than 5% targets will create long-term value for shareholders. Noting
CAGR and adjusted operating profit growth of more than 10% that no new issues were raised, the Committee is comfortable
CAGR from 2021 to 2026. These ambitions represent a step- that no further change is required to the Annual Bonus plan.
change in performance for the Group and achievement of The Committee will review with shareholders the evolving
them should deliver top quartile performance for our sector. needs of the business in advance of the renewal of our
Remuneration policy in 2025.
The Committee concluded that the design of its existing
Remuneration policy framework remained fit for purpose. Two administrative amendments to the 2022 Remuneration
However, given that driving long-term performance through policy are being proposed for shareholder approval at the
consistent year-on-year improvement was the main aim 2023 AGM. Further details are set out on page 163.
behind these targets, changing the short-term Annual Bonus
plan was determined to be the key imperative. 2022 remuneration outcomes
The very strong operating performance for GSK in the first year
The main change to the plan was to significantly reduce the
of the new remuneration arrangements has highlighted the
Annual Bonus opportunity for below-target performance while
importance of incentivising exceptional performance.
increasing the Annual Bonus opportunity for ‘exceptional
performance’ to 300% of salary. The increase in overall Annual As set out earlier in the Annual Report, in 2022 the Group
Bonus opportunity does not increase the cash reward delivered strong sales growth of Vaccines and Specialty
opportunity, as any incremental reward is delivered in the form Medicines and double-digit growth in operating profit and
of shares deferred for three years. earnings per share.
The Committee is very aware of the sensitivity amongst
stakeholders to levels of executive pay.
2022 Remuneration policy engagement
Details of the extensive consultation by the Committee and company Chairs regarding the 2022 Remuneration policy prior to
the 2022 AGM vote and continuing engagement with shareholders afterwards, are set out below.
Investor Share capital
Engagement events Dates participation represented
Initial individual consultation meetings October to 5 of the largest 12%
November 2021 15 shareholders
invitations November 2021 60 investors 50%
2021 Annual Governance Meeting:
attendance December 2021 13 investors 15%
Follow-up letter after Annual Governance Meeting to non-attendees, setting out January to February 30 investors 35%
proposed Remuneration policy asking for input via meeting with the Remuneration 2022
Committee and company Chairs
Letter circulated advising how feedback was incorporated into the final Remuneration March 2022 40 investors 45%
policy to be submitted to the 2022 Annual General Meeting for binding approval
Meetings held with shareholders prior to AGM January to April 2022 11 investors 16%
invitations November 2022 60 investors 50%
2022 Annual Governance Meeting:
attendance December 2022 14 investors 25%
Meetings held after the AGM to the publication of this Annual Report May 2022 to 20 meetings 35%
February 2023
The principal proxy advisory firms were also consulted throughout the Remuneration policy process. This included invitations
to the Annual Governance Meeting, receipt of engagement letters and meetings with the company and Remuneration
Committee Chairs.GSK Annual Report 2022
Committee Chair’s annual statement continued
Remuneration awards for the year reflect this excellent
operating performance, alongside successful delivery of the 2022 Pay for performance outcome
demerger of Consumer Healthcare to form Haleon, the largest
demerger in Europe for over 20 years. 2020 LTI vesting outcome:
performance period ended 31 December 2022
2022 Annual Bonus
The Bonus outcomes for the CEO and CFO were each
Relative Adjusted
determined by reference to performance against stretching
total sales, adjusted operating profit and diversity, equity and TSR 0% of 30% free cash flow
30% of 30%
inclusion (DEI) targets as well as the Committee’s assessment
of their individual performance against specific strategic and Overall vesting
operational measures. 52%
The total sales growth rate was 3.4% above the target growth
Pipeline Innovation
rate of 6.5% and the adjusted operating profit growth rate 13.8% of 8.2% of
progress 20% 20% sales
was 3.9% above the target growth rate of 12.8%. This led to an
overall payout under the financial elements of 149.5% of salary. Vested
The targets were set with consideration given to analyst Lapsed
consensus, hence the Committee is comfortable that the payout
represents exceptional performance. The full target range is set
out on page 139. When combined with the assessment of the The nature of the strategic and operational objectives for each
non-financial elements, the overall payout was 249.5% of salary Executive Director will be in line with those agreed for the 2022
for the CEO (149.5% of salary delivered in deferred shares) and Annual Bonus. These focus particularly on individual areas of
227.5% of salary for the CFO (127.5% of salary delivered in accountability to deliver the company’s strategy. For example,
deferred shares). the CEO has clear pipeline delivery objectives. Each Executive’s
objectives also require demonstration of their contribution to
The Committee believes the Bonus outcomes appropriately
leading and living our culture of performance with integrity
reflect the overall performance achieved in 2022. Full details
which the Board believes is a critical lever of long-term value
are provided on page 139.
creation for GSK.
Long-term incentive (LTI) awards
The Committee has reflected at length on investor input
52% of the 2020 Performance Share Plan (PSP) award vested.
regarding the most appropriate ESG measures to focus on.
Targets were set against pipeline progress (20%), innovation sales One theme which arose during consultation was the possibility
(20%), adjusted free cash flow (30%) and relative TSR (30%). of introducing a metric on access to medicines. However, as
Disappointingly there was nil-vesting under relative TSR. However, GSK is already an industry leader in this area, and as it is
strong performance against other metrics was evidenced with full deeply engrained in the company’s culture and values, the
vesting under the cash flow element and partial vesting under Committee felt that it was not necessary to include this as a
pipeline progress and innovation sales. This reflects progress in specific metric in incentives. Instead, the Committee has
R&D, including positive data for the company’s potential new RSV selected measures aimed at specific GSK challenges and
vaccine, and strong sales from products launched over the last opportunities in environmental sustainability and DEI.
five years, including shingles vaccine Shingrix which generated
Performance targets have been calibrated to consider a
sales of £3 billion during the year.
number of internal and external reference points, in particular
Following a review of contextual factors including previous analyst consensus has been considered for financial metrics
payouts, the Committee believes that the formulaic outcomes where available. The Committee is therefore satisfied that the
appropriately reflect performance in the round having targets set for 2023 are sufficiently stretching.
considered the experience of all stakeholders including
shareholders and our employees. The Committee did not Salary
deem it necessary to exercise discretion. Incentive awards in
The Committee agreed that the CEO should receive a 4%
relation to 2022 were made in accordance with the 2022
salary increase for 2023 which is lower than the average
Remuneration policy.
increase to the wider workforce in the UK of 5%. In addition to
the 5% average salary increase, the company has
Remuneration policy implementation for 2023
implemented a number of monetary and non-monetary
Annual Bonus and LTI performance measures initiatives for our colleagues in reaction to the cost of living
Following changes to the bonus in 2022, for 2023 we are crisis as explained in my statement.
maintaining the performance measures in our incentive plans
as they continue to align with our strategic goals. Workforce fairness
Annual Bonus measures will be: annual total sales growth In setting executive pay it is important that the Committee does
(30%); annual adjusted operating profit growth (30%); personal so with a good understanding of the Group’s wider workforce
performance against strategic and operational measures pay approach, with an emphasis on fairness and equity.
(30%); ESG: diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) (10%).
To that end, on an annual basis, I meet with senior Human
LTI measures will be: relative TSR (30%), total sales growth over Resources Leaders from across the company to understand
three years (20%); adjusted operating profit growth over three perspectives on pay and GSK’s remuneration arrangements for
years (20%); pipeline progress (20%); and ESG: environment the wider workforce. This year was the fourth such annual
composite scorecard (10%). meeting held.
134135
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
GSK Annual Report 2022
Committee Chair’s annual statement continued
How our performance measures align to our strategy
Performance measures Alignment to strategy Weighting
AB LTI
Total sales growth Ambition of 5% sales growth 30% 20%
Adjusted operating profit growth Ambition of 10% profit growth 30% 20%
Pipeline Emphasis on Innovation – rewards acceleration and – 20%
strengthening of pipeline
Relative total shareholder return Alignment with shareholders – 30%
ESG ambitions Nature and Climate ambitions – 10%
2022 – DEI Priorities 10% –
Strategic and operational Individual accountability for delivery of our strategy and public ambitions 30% –
Key AB Annual Bonus LTI Long-term incentives
At the meeting, we discussed how GSK continues to support its Our new CFO, Julie Brown’s salary of £915,335 was preliminarily
diversity aspiration through fair pay processes and proactive set in line with that of her predecessor in September 2022. Her
reviews and enhancements to its employee benefits. These salary upon joining has been increased by 4% to £951,948. This
included: is in line with the increase agreed for the CEO and is below that
which has been awarded to the UK wider workforce.
– new global minimum standards for parental leave and for
care of a family member
AGM
– review of medical and insured benefits with a focus on equity
Finally, I would like to again thank shareholders for their valued
for same sex couples wherever legally possible and
input and engagement. I welcome all further feedback and
– new financial education support look forward to receiving your support for this report at our
Annual General Meeting on 3 May 2023.
Given the very challenging economic environment and cost of
living pressures in many countries, management has taken
action to support current employees and to attract talent, Urs Rohner
through competitive salary increases, one-off support Remuneration Committee Chair
payments to staff at lower grades, and enhancements to 9 March 2023
workforce wellbeing programmes.
At the start of 2022, changes were also made to the Annual
Bonus plan below the GLT level to reflect a greater focus on Consideration of potential windfall gains
performance. The new plan has been generally well received The Committee is aware of the guidance from investor
and first payments will be made in Q1 2023. bodies around considering a potential executive benefit
arising from share award grants around the time of the
Director changes stock market fall at the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic in
In August 2022, Dr Hal Barron transitioned, as planned, from March 2020.
his role as CSO to a non-independent Non-Executive Director. Our Remuneration Policy contains sufficient flexibility to
Dr Barron was contractually entitled to receive a pro-rated reduce the vesting of awards if required.
target bonus in respect of 2022. He did not receive an LTI grant
However, the Committee determined that no reduction is
in 2022.
required in respect of the awards granted in March 2020.
We also announced the appointment of Julie Brown as CFO In making this determination, the Committee considered
from May 2023, when Iain Mackay will step down from the the share price at the following points:
Board. As previously communicated, Mr Mackay will continue
– The share price at the time of the February 2020 award
to receive his base salary until he leaves GSK at the end of the
of £16.81
year and will be eligible to receive an Annual Bonus in respect
of 2023. He will not be eligible to receive any further LTI awards – The share price over the final quarter of 2022 of £13.99
and will receive no salary increase in 2023. Full details of his
– The share price at the time of the March 2019 award
retirement arrangements including the treatment of in-flight LTI
(grant previous to the 2020 award) of £15.09
awards can be found on page 149.
Whilst there have been upward and downward
movements in GSK’s share price over the period, taking
these above points into consideration the Committee was
satisfied that there was no risk of windfall gains.GSK Annual Report 2022
Annual report on remuneration
2022 Total remuneration (audited)
Fixed pay Pay for performance
2022 Annual Bonus 2020 Vested LTI Awards
CEO CFO
Overall bonus 249.5% 227.5% Overall vesting 52%
Salary (% of salary)
Delivered as: Shares subject to two-year holding
(% of bonus) period upon vesting
Benefits
Total
Cash 40.1% 44.0% remuneration
Deferred shares 59.9% 56.0% could b
Pension
2022 measures % 2020-22 vested measures %
Total sales growth 30 Relative TSR 30
Adjusted operating 30 Adjusted free cash flow 30
profit growth
Innovation sales 20
Individual strategic and 30
Pipeline progress 20
operational objectives
(Pivotal trial starts & Major
ESG: DEI 10 regulatory approvals)
+ R ead more
on pages 137 and 138 on pages 139 and 140 on pages 141 and 142 below
2022 Total remuneration (audited)
Dr Hal Barron, former CSO
Emma Walmsley, CEO Iain Mackay, CFO (to 31 July 2022)(2)
2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021
£000 £000 £000 £000 $000 $000
Fixed pay
Salary 1,260 1,223 915 889 1,332 1,883
Benefits 131 134 291 242 107 145
Pension 253 245 183 178 190 651
Total fixed pay 1,644 1,602 1,389 1,309 1,629 2,679
Pay for performance
Annual bonus(1) 3,143 2,275 2,082 1,573 1,177 3,483
Vesting of PSP LTI awards(3) (4) 3,666 4,326 1,854 2,408 4,381 6,371
Total pay for performance(5) 6,809 6,601 3,936 3,981 5,558 9,854
Total remuneration £8,453 £8,203 £5,325 £5,290 $7,187 $12,533
Notes:
(1) The mandatory Deferred Annual Bonus Plan (DABP) bonus deferrals for 2022 and 2023 are set out on page 154. The payment shown for Dr Barron represents a
pro-rated on-target payment in respect of 1 January 2022 to 31 July 2022, in lieu of an Annual Bonus opportunity.
(2) Dr Barron transitioned from his role as CSO to Non-Executive Director on 1 August 2022. Salary above includes the basic salary earned for his time as CSO from 1
January to 31 July 2022 plus payment in lieu of accrued holiday not taken, in accordance with GSK’s standard all employee US holiday pay policy. His Non-Executive
Director fees earned from 1 August to 31 December 2022 were $177,107. Please see page 153 for further details.
(3) The PSP vesting figure for the CEO is inclusive of a top-up award (25% of salary) made in May 2020 following the vote in favour of the Remuneration policy at the
company’s 2020 AGM. This award will not vest until May 2023 and the final actual value received for the 2020-22 PSP will be restated in the 2023 Annual Report.
(4) The 2020 PSP was valued based on the vesting prices on 10 February 2023 of £14.78 and the ADS price of $35.727. The share and ADS prices on 14 February 2020, the
main date of grant were £16.686 and $43.74. In respect of the top-up award for the CEO, the share price was £16.814. Of the vested amounts for the Executive Directors,
nothing was attributable to share price appreciation over the performance period. The Committee did not exercise any discretion in relation to the vesting of the awards
or share price changes. The value for Dr Hal Barron is illustrative as the award will not vest until August 2023 in accordance with the terms of the Executive and Senior
Management Recoupment Policy. The actual value received will be restated in the 2023 Annual Report.
(5) The Committee may in specific circumstances, and in line with stated principles, apply malus/clawback, as it determines appropriate. Following due consideration by the
Committee, there has been no recovery of sums paid (clawback) or reduction of outstanding awards or vesting levels (malus) applied during 2022 in respect of any of
the CEO, CFO or the former CSO.
136137
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
GSK Annual Report 2022
Annual report on remuneration continued
2022 Total remuneration (audited) continued
The following sections provide details of each element of 2022 ‘Total remuneration’, and how the Committee implemented
the company’s shareholder-approved Remuneration policy during the year in terms of fixed and performance pay:
Fixed pay (audited)
Salary The table below provides an analysis of Total benefits (grossed
up for tax) received by the Executive Directors in 2022 and
The table below sets out the base salaries of the Executive
2021.
Directors over the last two years compared to increases for the
2022 Benefits 2021 Benefits
UK and US workforce. £000 £000
2022 Salary Emma Walmsley
effective 2022
date % change 2022 2021 Benefits available to employees 66 71
Business-related services 65 63
UK & US employees 1 April 3% – –
Total benefits 131 134
Emma Walmsley £1,259,855 £1,223,160
Iain Mackay 1 January 3% £915,335 £888,675 Iain Mackay
Dr Hal Barron(1) $2,026,549 $1,967,523 Benefits available to employees 156 131
Business-related services 135 111
(1) W ith effect from 1 August 2022, Dr Barron transitioned to a Non-Executive
Director role and has not received a salary since that date. He receives Total benefits 291 242
Non-Executive Director fees as described on page 153. Dr Barron’s 2021
base salary was increased by 8% from $1,821,781 to $1,967,523 with effect Dr Hal Barron $000 $000
from 1 August 2021. See page 126 of the 2021 Annual Report for further details. Benefits available to employees 71 83
Business-related services 36 64
Details of salary levels for 2023 are provided on page 147.
Accommodation whilst on business travel(1) – (2)
Benefits Total benefits 107 145
The UK remuneration reporting regulations require the
Notes:
company to add into each Executive Director’s total benefits (1) 2 021 represents one-off refund of accommodation costs relating to 2020.
all items which are deemed by tax authorities to be a taxable
benefit for them.
These comprise:
– Employee benefits in line with the policy for other employees,
which may vary by location and role
– Business-related services provided to employees to assist or
enable them to carry out their role, which a tax authority has
deemed to be a taxable “benefit” to the individual. Because
these are business expenses, the company meets the tax
which arises on them and therefore the items are shown
grossed up for tax. These include business travel and other
related business costsGSK Annual Report 2022
Annual report on remuneration continued
Fixed pay (audited) continued
Pensions
From 1 January 2023, pension arrangements for Executive Directors were aligned to the wider workforce. Further details are given
on page 147.
Executive Director Member since Pension arrangements in 2022
Emma Walmsley 2010 Pension contributions of 20% of base salary and matching contributions of up to 5% on the first
Iain Mackay 2019 £13,333 of salary, with a cash payment of 20% of base salary in lieu of pension on salary in excess
of £13,333 in line with plan rates.
Dr Hal Barron 2018-July 2022 Member of the 401(k) plan open to all US employees and the Executive Supplemental Savings Plan
(ESSP), a savings scheme open to US executives to accrue benefits above the 401(k) plan limits.
He received 38% of base salary, less a contribution to the 401(k) and ESSP equivalent to 5% of total
base salary and bonus (net of the bonus deferred under the DABP). In addition, in line with the
wider US workforce, from 1 January 2021, a combined contribution rate under the 401(k) and ESSP
plans of 11% (7% core contribution plus a match of up to 4%) of total base salary and bonus (net of
the bonus deferred under the DABP).
The following table shows the breakdown of the pension values included in Total remuneration on page 136. They are calculated
in accordance with the methodology set out in the UK Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports)
Regulations 2008 (as amended) (Remuneration regulations).
Emma Walmsley Iain Mackay Dr Hal Barron
2022 2021 2022 2021 Jan-Jul 2022 2021
Pension remuneration values £000 £000 £000 £000 $000 $000
UK defined contribution 3 3 3 3 – –
US defined benefit – – – – (134) 350
Employer cash contributions 250 242 180 175 324 301
Total pension remuneration value 253 245 183 178 190 651
Dr Hal Barron is now a deferred member of the US style defined benefit plan. Further details regarding the 2022 pension values
for Dr Barron are set out in the table below. His accrued benefit (ie the annual pension accrued to date) for 2022 was calculated
as the increase in the accrued benefit, adjusted for inflation and multiplied by 20 to reflect the fact that the benefit will be
received over a number of years. The normal retirement age under the Cash Balance Pension Plan is age 65. Dr Barron has not
received any additional benefit for retiring early.
Accrued pension Pension remuneration
31 July 2022 31 December 2021 value for 2022
Dr Hal Barron pension values $000 $000 $000
US – Funded 2 2 (6)
US – Unfunded 194 187 (128)
Total 196 189 (134)
138139
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
GSK Annual Report 2022
Annual report on remuneration continued
Pay for performance (audited)
Annual Bonus
Strategic and
Total sales Adjusted operating ESG: diversity,
operational
growth profit growth equity and inclusion Annual Bonus
measures
30% 30% 10%
30%
2022 Annual Bonus performance against measures
The following table shows the Annual Bonuses earned compared to the bonus opportunity for 2022:
2022 Bonus opportunity 2022 Bonus outcome
Adjusted Strategic and
Total sales operating operational Total 2022
Target Maximum 2022 growth profit growth measures ESG bonus Total 2022
Bonus (% of salary) (% of salary) salary (% of salary) (% of salary) (% of salary) (% of salary) (% of salary) bonus
Emma Walmsley £1,259,855 90 10 249.5 £3,143,340
100 300 71 79
Iain Mackay £915,335 78 0 227.5 £2,082,390
Details of the mandatory deferral by Executive Directors into the DABP for the 2022 bonus are set out on page 147.
Dr Barron received a pro-rated ‘on-target’ payment for 2022 of $1,177,064 in lieu of a bonus opportunity. This is because he
transitioned to a Non-Executive Director role on 1 August 2022. This contractual payment, in accordance with the company’s
Remuneration policy, is included in his remuneration for 2022 under Annual Bonus in the table on page 136.
2022 financial performance measures
2022 Performance
Target Target Outcome Positioning
weighting growth rate growth rate achieved
Total sales growth 30% 6.5% 9.9% +3.4%
Adjusted operating profit growth 30% 12.8% 16.8% +3.9%
These targets were set following consideration of analyst consensus as well as internal budgets. The annual targets for 2022
exceeded the long-term sales and profit targets stated in our Investor Update of 5% and 10% respectively. The Committee is
therefore comfortable that over achievement of these represents exceptional performance. Threshold and maximum performance
targets were set at 1% below and 5% above target growth respectively. The total sales and adjusted operating profit targets and
outcomes for the purposes of the Annual Bonus calculation are based on CER and exclude the commercial benefit from COVID-19
solutions.
Overview of performance against financial performance measures
– 2022 saw a step-change in commercial execution; earnings guidance was updated during the year as momentum grew. This
was driven by strong sales growth across Specialty Medicines and Vaccines, exceeding guidance for sales and operating profit
– Delivered full-year reported Group sales of £29.3 billion (+19% AER, +13% CER) with Specialty growth of 37% AER, 29% CER
with double-digit growth across all Specialty therapy areas and Vaccines growth of 17% AER, 11% with a record year for Shingrix.
The outcome was adjusted to exclude the benefit from COVID-19 solutions
– Adjusted Group operating profit of £8,151 million above target, driven by higher sales supported by prioritised investment and
effective cost control. The outcome was adjusted to exclude the commercial benefit from COVID-19 solutions
– Adjusted EPS of 139.7p (+27% AER, +15% CER) was ahead of guidance excluding COVID-19 solutionsGSK Annual Report 2022
Annual report on remuneration continued
Pay for performance (audited) continued
2022 strategic and operational measures performance
The Committee received and considered a performance assessment report for each Executive Director showing the extent of their
achievement against the individual personal strategic and operational measures agreed by the Committee for them to support
the delivery of our strategic commitments during 2022. The Committee also reviewed Dr Hal Barron’s performance in July 2022
before the release of his contractual ‘on-target’ bonus payment.
As with the financial elements of the Annual Bonus, the Committee was satisfied that the scale of Executive Directors’
achievements this year was of an exceptional nature. In particular, these achievements relate to the pipeline, commercial
execution and Haleon demerger.
Strategic and operational measures Performance achieved
Emma Walmsley
The Committee determined that the CEO clearly exceeded or met her individual objectives
Strengthen pipeline and – 47 potential new medicines and 22 vaccine candidates in development, with 18 now in phase 3/registration.
build GSK’s reputation for Two-thirds of pipeline now focused on infectious diseases
Innovation – Significant progress to strengthen pipeline and advance key assets (including RSV OA vaccine, bepirovirsen,
gepotidican, daprodustat and depemokimab) more than offset termination decisions on otilimab and RSV maternal
– Continued progress in development of long-acting HIV treatments including launch of Apretude, for HIV
prevention and positive data for new broadly neutralising antibody N6LS
– Successful business development to support future growth and focus in Vaccines and Specialty Medicines
including Affinivax, Sierra Oncology and Spero Therapeutics
Demonstrate continued – Step-change in commercial execution, with double-digit sales growth across Specialty Medicines and Vaccines
commercial execution – 10 products now exceeding £1 billion in annual sales, including Trelegy, Nucala, Benlysta and Dovato
excellence – Strong momentum for Shingrix (sales +60% to £3 billion), reflecting post pandemic rebound, new geographic
launches and excellent commercial execution
Complete separation and – Haleon successfully demerged on schedule from GSK on 18 July 2022. Largest demerger in Europe for 20 years
unlocked value – Meaningful progress in value recognition prior to impact of market uncertainty following Zantac litigation
Demonstrate strong – Sustained leading ESG performance, with delivery against Global Health, Environment and Inclusion and Diversity
Environmental, Social and commitments
Governance (ESG) credentials – Maintained sector-leading rankings in key ESG indices. Ranked number 1 in Access to Medicines Index for the 8th
and build trust in future delivery consecutive time and 2nd in S&P Corporate Sustainability Assessment for the pharmaceutical industry
Demonstrate strong culture – Drove rapid ownership of new culture; launch and roll out of new internal GSK Code, Talent Management and
and leadership Performance with Choice programmes
– Employee engagement up to 81% (versus 78% in 2021)
– Continued development and succession planning for leadership team, with Tony Wood appointed CSO and new
Chief Financial Officer Designate appointed
Iain Mackay
The Committee determined that the CFO successfully met his individual objectives
Demonstrate financial – Group financial targets exceeded: total sales £29.3 billion (+19% AER, +13% CER, +10% excl COVID); adjusted
leadership operating margin 27.8%; adjusted operating profit growth +26% AER, +14% CER, +17% excl COVID
– Adjusted EPS 139.7p (+15% CER)
Cost discipline and cash – Prioritised investment and cost discipline supported strong growth in operating profit and EPS.
flow management – Transformation programme delivering £0.9 billion annual savings by end 2022, on track to deliver £1 billion by end 2023
– Cash generated from operations £7.9 billion and free cash flow of £3.3 billion
Complete separation and – Haleon successfully demerged on schedule from GSK on 18 July 2022. Largest demerger in Europe for 20 years
unlocked value – Meaningful progress in value recognition prior to impact of market uncertainty following Zantac litigation
Demonstrate strong – Finance and Tech engagement, confidence, culture and inclusivity employee survey scores all increased
culture and leadership versus 2021
2022 ESG: diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) performance
Our first Annual Bonus ESG measure reinforces achievement of our DEI ambitions, as set out on page 47. DEI is an important
business imperative and aspirational targets could be set to warrant additional reward. To stay on track for the 2025 Aspirational
Targets for diversity of senior leadership, the Committee agreed interim, annual aspirational targets including global gender
representation and US and UK race and ethnicity representation. These interim, annual aspirations were agreed by the
Committee for the CEO. An internal governance team comprising members of Reward and Legal audited their performance
against these interim aspirations for consideration by the Committee. These interim aspirations were achieved in 2022 and at year
end we had 42% gender representation and 31.3% US ethnicity and 14.3% UK ethnicity in our VP and above employee population
which are above or on track to meet the 2025 Aspirations.
In addition, most directorates also performed strongly against their respective contributions to our Aspirations. However, not all
directorates achieved their expected contributions to the aspirational targets including Finance.
140141
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
GSK Annual Report 2022
Annual report on remuneration continued
Pay for performance (audited) continued
Vesting of PSP LTI awards
The following sets out the performance achieved for the company’s PSP and includes an update on performance of outstanding
awards. In line with the Committee’s agreed principles, actual performance against each measure is carefully reviewed and
adjustments are made, as appropriate, to ensure that the vesting outcome reflects genuine underlying business performance
and has been delivered in line with our culture and responsible business priorities.
Overall, 52% of the 2020 PSP award vested. Targets were set against pipeline progress (20%), innovation sales (20%), adjusted
free cash flow (30%) and relative TSR (30%). Disappointingly there was nil-vesting under relative TSR. However, strong
performance against other metrics was evidenced with full vesting under the cash flow element and partial vesting under
pipeline progress and innovation sales.
During the 2020-22 period, significant progress was achieved in accelerating the delivery of our pipeline, notably the company’s RSV
vaccine, depemokimab and niraparib. Robust oversight resulted in a number of assets being discontinued as resources were
reprioritised to focus on those with the greatest potential. Major approvals in the period included: niraparib, for ovarian cancer;
sotrovimab (emergency use authorization) for COVID-19; Cabenuva for HIV treatment and Apretude for HIV pre-exposure prevention.
Innovation sales, in the period, reflected particularly strong performance of HIV medicines and our shingles vaccine, Shingrix.
Outcome and vesting level
Performance measures % of % of
and relative weighting Performance targets Outcome maximum award
Pipeline progress The pipeline progress measure targets rewarding strengthening of our pipeline
(20%) through progression of high quality assets into pivotal trials and the achievement
of regulatory approvals in major markets. Points based on achievement are
allocated to these two equally weighted elements.
LTI award Threshold Maximum 16.5 points 88%
13.8%
Measure % 25% 50% 75% 100%
19 points 50%
Pivotal Trial starts 10 13 points 14 points 15 points 18 points
Major regulatory 10 18 points 19 points 20 points 22 points
approval milestones
Innovation sales The innovation sales measure recognises the importance of launching new products £15.368 billion 41% 8.2%0
(20%) successfully and that driving their performance is key to our commercial success.
This measure aggregates three-year sales for new innovative products launched in
the three-year performance period and the preceding two years, ie 2018-22.
Innovation sales (billion) % vesting
Maximum £18.132 100%
£16.484 75%
£15.660 50%
Threshold £14.836 25%
<£14.836 0%
Adjusted free In line with the company’s agreed principles, the AFCF figures included £13.08 billion 100% 30%
cash flow (AFCF) adjustments for a number of material distorting items, including legal settlements,
performance exchange rate movements and special pension contributions.
(30%) Original Revised
target (billion) target (billion)(1) % vesting
Maximum £11.84 £10.47 100%
£11.33 £10.01 75%
£10.30 £9.10 50%
Threshold £9.99 £8.83 25%
<£9.99 <£8.83 0%
(1) The revised target has been further adjusted since the 2021 Annual Report as noted overleaf.
Relative TSR TSR ranking within comparator group(2) % vesting Ranked 9th 0% 0%
performance Maximum 1st, 2nd, 3rd 100%
(30%)
4th 70%
5th 40%
Threshold(3) Median 25%
6th to 10th 0%
(2) TSR comparator group: AstraZeneca, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Eli Lilly, GSK,
Johnson & Johnson, Merck & Co, Novartis, Pfizer, Roche Holdings and Sanofi.
(3) T he vesting schedule is based on delivering 25% vesting for median performance.
In a comparator group of ten companies, median falls between two companies.
Total vesting in respect of 2020 awards 52%GSK Annual Report 2022
Annual report on remuneration continued
Pay for performance (audited) continued
The Adjusted free cash flow (AFCF) target was revised in line with the disclosure on page 131 of the 2021 Annual Report. It has
been further restated to take account of the demerger by removing the share of target cash flows related to Consumer Healthcare
following the demerger in 2022, revised phasing of the Future Ready programme restructuring cash payments based on detailed
programme planning undertaken in 2022, and revised timing of divestments. As a result, the target was decreased by £0.99 billion
to £9.10 billion.
The Committee did not exercise any discretion in relation to the vesting of the awards or share price changes.
2020 PSP vesting
Value of
Granted Vested(1) vested shares(1)
Emma Walmsley(2) 410,090 248,018 £3,666,163
Iain Mackay 207,267 125,432 £1,854,116
Dr Hal Barron – Pro-rated(3) 203,981 122,634 $4,381,400
(1) The vested number of shares and the value it represented at vesting includes dividend reinvestments during the performance period. These are based on the
vesting price of £14.78 and the closing ADS price of $35.727 on 10 February 2023.
(2) T he shares granted for Emma Walmsley include the additional ‘top-up’ award made in May 2020 which will not vest until May 2023. The final actual value received
and any amount attributable to share price appreciation over the performance period will be restated in the 2023 Annual Report.
(3) The PSP award for Dr Hal Barron will not vest until August 2023 under the terms of the Executive & Senior Manager Financial Recoupment Policy.
Performance of ongoing LTI awards
The Committee also reviewed the performance of the PSP awards granted to Executive Directors in 2021 and 2022.
The following charts provide an estimate of the vesting levels of the 2021 and 2022 awards, taking into account performance to
31 December 2022.
– Actual vesting levels will only be determined based on performance over the full three-year performance periods. The
indications below should therefore not be regarded as predictions of the final vesting levels
– The AFCF measure target, threshold and associated vesting scales for the 2021 awards have been adjusted. The net overall
impact is a decrease in the target of £3.02 billion to £5.64 billion for the 2021 award
– The adjustments took into account of the following items: the removal of the share of target cash flows relating to Consumer
Healthcare in 2022 and 2023 following the demerger in 2022, revised phasing of the Future Ready programme restructuring
cash payments, and revised timing of divestments
– There were no changes to other measures
2021 PSP award 2022 PSP award
Ranked 3rd 122% of Ranked 3rd 105% of 105% of
or above threshold £6.49bn or above target target
Maximum Maximum
Median £5.47bn Median
Threshold Threshold
30% 20% 30% P M 30% 20% 20% 10% P M
Relative TSR Innovation Adjusted free 20% Relative TSR Total sales Adjusted ESG 20%
sales cash flow Pipeline growth operating Pipeline
progress profit growth progress
Commercially sensitive target published on vesting Estimated vesting level P Pivotal trial starts M Major regulatory approval milestones
For threshold performance 25% of each award will vest in respect of each performance measure. Individual 2021 LTI award levels
appear on page 131 of the 2021 Annual Report. They are set out below for the 2022 LTI awards.
142143
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
GSK Annual Report 2022
Annual report on remuneration continued
Pay for performance (audited) continued
2022 LTI awards
The 2022 DABP awards, in respect of the deferral of 2021 bonus, and the 2022 PSP awards are both shown in the table below.
2022 DABP awards 2022 PSP awards
2021
% of total bonus Number of Face value Award level as % Number of Face value
deferred shares of award(1) of base salary shares of award(2)(3)
Emma Walmsley 72,399 shares £1.138m 575% 461,059 shares £7.2m
Iain Mackay 50% 50,056 shares £0.786m 400% 233,028 shares £3.7m
Dr Hal Barron(4) 40,617 ADS $1.741m – – –
(1) The face values of the DABP awards have been calculated based on a share price of £15.712 and an ADS price of $42.87, being the closing prices on 14 February 2022 (the day
before grant). These are nil-cost options for the UK Executive Directors and restricted shares for the US Executive Director. No performance conditions are attached to the
DABP awards, as they reflect the mandatory three-year deferrals in respect of the Annual Bonus for 2021.
(2) The face values of the PSP awards have been calculated based on a share price of £15.712, being the closing price on 14 February 2022 (the day before grant). These are
conditional shares, based on the performance measures outlined above. Dr Barron did not receive a 2022 PSP award given his transition to a Non-Executive Director role on
1 August 2022.
(3) The performance period for the 2022 PSP awards is from 1 January 2022 to 31 December 2024. Awards vest at 25% of maximum for threshold performance.
(4) Dr Barron’s DABP award will vest as normal three years after the date it was granted.
Historical vesting for LTI plans
The following table summarises LTI vesting by performance measure for GSK over the last ten years.
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Relative TSR 0 0 0 0 15 0 0 0 0 0
Adjusted free cash flow 13 0 0 0 21 26 33 33 33 30
Innovation sales (previously R&D new product) 16 7 21 33 33 33 33 33 25 8.2
Pipeline progress 13.8
Business diversification 11 7 17
Total vested % 40 14 38 33 69 59 67 67 58 52
Malus and clawback policy
For details of our existing policy on malus and clawback, please refer to the company’s 2022 Remuneration policy report on page
147 of the 2021 Annual Report, available on gsk.com.
The Committee reviews and discloses whether it (or the Recoupment Committee) has exercised malus or clawback.Disclosure is
only made when the matter has been the subject of public reports of misconduct, where it has been fully resolved, where it is
legally permissible to disclose and where it can be made without unduly prejudicing the company and therefore shareholders.
In line with these disclosure guidelines, neither the Committee (nor the Recoupment Committee) exercised malus or clawback
during 2022.
An administrative amendment is proposed to the malus and clawback section of the 2022 Remuneration policy for shareholder
approval at the 2023 AGM, as described on page 163.
Other policies
For details of our existing policies on recruitment remuneration, loss of office and termination payments, please refer to the
2022 Remuneration policy report on pages 144 to 152 of the 2021 Annual Report, available on gsk.com.GSK Annual Report 2022
Annual report on remuneration continued
Directors’ pay in a wider setting
Internal context
Remuneration structure for employees compared to Executive Directors and GLT during 2022
Element Wider workforce pay Comparison with Executive Director and GLT pay
Salary – The market competitiveness of base salaries across the – For our Executive Directors and the GLT, following a
company is assessed at a local market level. The performance review, increases in base salaries are
competitiveness of roles, which is measured against the considered in line with market practice, the average
external market and internal peers, is kept under increase for the wider employee population and other
regular review comparotor tools.
– Increases may also be made to reflect a change in – Increases may also be made to reflect a change in scope
scope of an individual’s role, responsibilities or of an individual’s role, responsibilities or experience
experience – In agreeing increases for Executive Directors and the GLT,
the Committee is mindful of the multiplier effect on the
individual’s total remuneration
Pensions – The company seeks to provide an appropriate – Our Executive Directors and the GLT are eligible to receive
and pension and benefits package that is aligned to benefits broadly in line with the policy for other
benefits competitive market practices in those countries in employees, which may vary by location
which the company operates and where our – Pension arrangements are structured in accordance with
employees are based where the Executive Director or GLT member is expected
to retire. Current and future Executive Directors’ pension
arrangements have been aligned to the wider workforce
in their location since 1 January 2023
Annual – With the exception of our sales force, who participate in – Our Executive Directors and the GLT participate in a plan
Bonus separate arrangements, our wider workforce based on an assessment of a combination of stretching
participates in a plan based on performance against financial/business, ESG: DEI and personal objectives
four business and financial measures. These are – For Executive Directors, any bonus up to 200% of salary is
structured to reflect the priorities of each specific paid 50% in cash and 50% in shares deferred for three
business area years. Any bonus earned in excess of this (up to a
– This plan is designed to reward our employees’ maximum of 300% of salary) would be delivered fully in
collective contribution to business achievement. shares deferred for three years
Separate mechanisms are in place to recognise – For GLT members, any bonus up to 170% of salary is paid
outstanding individual performance or to address 75% in cash and 25% in shares deferred for three years.
under-performance Any bonus earned in excess of this (up to a maximum of
255% of salary) would be delivered fully in shares deferred
for three years
– Clawback and/or malus provisions apply
LTI plans – Our employees at Senior Vice President (SVP) and – Our Executive Directors and the GLT are granted annual
Vice President (VP) level participate in the same PSP PSP awards with the same performance targets and
as our Executive Directors and the GLT with the same periods as employees
performance targets and periods – Executive Directors are required to hold vested awards for
– Clawback and/or malus provisions apply an additional two-year period
– Our SVP and VP employees, together with Directors – Clawback and/or malus provisions apply
and Managers below the GLT, receive annual Share – Executive Directors and the GLT do not receive Share
Value Plan awards of restricted shares Value Plan awards following appointment
All-employee share plans Dilution limits
UK Executive Directors may participate in His Majesty’s All awards are made under plans which incorporate dilution
Revenue & Customs approved all-employee share plans along limits consistent with the guidelines published by the
with the wider UK workforce, namely the company’s Share Save Investment Association (IA). These limits are 10% in any rolling
and Share Reward plans. ten-year period for all plans and 5% in any rolling ten-year
period for executive share plans (granted to senior executives).
Participants of the company’s Share Save plan may save up
Estimated dilution from existing awards made over the last ten
to £250 a month for three years and at the end of the period
years up to 31 December 2022 is as follows:
have the option to buy GSK shares at a discount of up to 20%
to the share price at the start of the savings contract. All GSK employee share plans
Participants of the Share Reward plan contribute up to £125
a month to purchase GSK shares which the company then 0.78% 10%
matches on a one for one basis.
0 02 04 06 08 10
For further details see page 154.
Executive share plans
0.42% 5%
Actual Limit
144145
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
GSK Annual Report 2022
Annual report on remuneration continued
Directors’ pay in a wider setting continued
CEO pay ratios – Option A methodology
Lower quartile Median Upper quartile The pay ratios above are calculated using actual earnings for
Financial year P25 P50 P75
the CEO and UK employees. The CEO’s total single figure
2022 144:1 106:1 67:1
remuneration of £8,453,253 for 2022 and £8,203,422 for 2021
2021 154:1 108:1 67:1
are detailed on page 136.
2020 130:1 96:1 62:1
Total remuneration for all UK full-time equivalent employees on
2019 160:1 119:1 73:1
31 December 2022 has been calculated in line with the single
GSK continues to use the Option A methodology because it is figure methodology. This reflects their actual earnings received
the most robust and statistically accurate way to calculate the in 2022 (excluding business expenses), which were used to
three ratios from the options available in the Remuneration produce the percentile calculation under Option A of the
regulations. The pay ratio is broadly similar to 2021 with the Remuneration regulations. Business expenses have been
reduction at P25 influenced by the change in workforce excluded as they are reimbursed to employees and are not
composition following the Consumer Healthcare demerger. sufficiently substantial in value to significantly impact the ratios.
The table below shows the salary, and total pay and benefits for each of the percentiles.
2022 2021 2020 2019 2022 2021 2020 2019 2022 2021 2020 2019
£ P25 P50 P75
Salary 37,776 37,251 36,924 34,510 52,107 51,492 50,000 47,029 74,905 72,997 70,203 66,561
Total pay and benefits 58,883 53,151 54,133 50,467 79,428 76,234 73,340 68,200 126,594 122,852 113,830 110,638
The Committee believes that the median pay ratio is consistent with the company’s pay, reward and progression policies.
The base salaries of all employees, including the Executive Directors, are set with reference to a range of factors including market
practice, experience and performance in role.
Supplemental and additional ratios Relative importance of spend on pay
The CEO pay ratio is likely to vary, potentially significantly, over The table shows total employee pay and the Group’s dividends
time since it will be driven largely by CEO variable pay outcomes. paid to shareholders.
In line with our reward principles, the CEO has a larger portion of Change 2022 2021
% £m £m
her pay based on performance than the individuals at P25, P50
Total employee pay 0.2 7,693 7,680
and P75. This means that depending on GSK’s performance the
Dividends paid in the year (13.3) 3,467 3,999
ratio could increase or decrease significantly.
The figures in the table above, which reflect payments made
The Committee believes that our senior executives should have a
during each year and the impact of movements in exchange
significant proportion of their pay linked directly to performance.
rates, are as set out on pages 200 and 207. However, cash
In light of this we have also provided supplemental ratios, dividends declared in respect of 2022 were £2,468 million
where LTI compensation has been excluded. (2021: £4,011 million) a decrease of 38.5%. Please see Note 16
We believe this provides an additional view as LTIs formed a to the financial statements for further details.
substantial percentage of the CEO’s total remuneration, which is Total employee pay is based on 69,130 employees, the average
highly variable and dependent on business performance. The number of people employed during 2022 (2021: 71,345). Please
CEO’s 2022 total remuneration excluding LTI compensation is see Note 9 to the financial statements for further details.
£4,787,090.
There were no share repurchases made by the company
CEO pay ratios (less LTI awards) during 2022 and 2021.
Option A Methodology
Financial year P25 P50 P75
2022 81:1 60:1 40:1
2021 73:1 51:1 34:1
2020 51:1 38:1 26:1
2019 65:1 48:1 32:1GSK Annual Report 2022
AAnnnnuuaall rreeppoorrtt oonn rreemmuunneerraattiioonn ccoonnttiinnuueedd
Directors’ pay in a wider setting continued
External context
Comparator groups TSR Performance graph
The Committee used two pay comparator groups when The following graph sets out the performance of the company
considering executive pay for 2022. The European cross- relative to the FTSE 100 Index and to the Global pharmaceutical
industry comparator group is the primary comparator group performance comparator group for the ten-year period to
used for the CEO and CFO. The Global pharmaceutical 31 December 2022. These indices were selected for comparison
comparator group is the secondary group for the CEO and is purposes as they reflect both the primary index of which GSK is a
also used to measure relative TSR performance. constituent and the industry in which it operates.
European cross-industry comparator group
550
Roche Holding AG Linde Deutsche Telekom
Novartis Sanofi Kering
500
LVMH AstraZeneca Heineken
Anheuser-Busch InBev Diageo BASF
Unilever Siemens Vinci 450
SAP Christian Dior Adidas
L’Oreal Inditex Bayer 400
Novo Nordisk A/S BAT Safran
Airbus Volkswagen Reckitt Benckiser
350
Global pharmaceutical comparator group
300
France US
Sanofi AbbVie(1)
Amgen(1) 250
Switzerland
Novartis Bristol-Myers Squibb
Roche Holdings Eli Lilly 200
Johnson & Johnson
UK
Merck & Co
AstraZeneca Pfizer 150
(1) AbbVie and Amgen are included for remuneration benchmarking, but are 100
not included in the relative TSR comparator group.
50
2022 target CEO total remuneration positioning 31.12.12 31.12.13 31.12.14 31.12.15 31.12.16 31.12.17 31.12.18 31.12.19 31.12.20 31.12.21 31.12.22
When reviewing the CEO’s remuneration, the Committee’s GSK Total Return GSK Pharma Peers FTSE 100
Total Return Index* Total Return Index
primary comparator group is the European cross-industry
* This index comprises AstraZeneca, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Eli Lilly, Johnson &
comparator group. It also references pay for the Global Johnson, Merck & Co, Novartis, Pfizer, Roche Holdings and Sanofi.
pharmaceutical comparator group.
Historic CEO remuneration
European Emma Walmsley £000
cross-industry 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017
group
Total remuneration 8,453 8,203 7,031 8,094 5,887 4,883(1)
Global % of maximum
pharmaceutical
group Annual Bonus award(2) 83% 93% 49% 79% 93% 77%
Vesting of LTI awards 52% 58% 67% 67% 59% 69%
(£m) 4 6 8 10 12 14 16
Lower quartile Median to upper Emma Walmsley’s Sir Andrew Witty £000
to median quartile current position 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013
Remuneration includes salary and the expected value of incentives based on the Total remuneration 715(2) 6,830 6,661 3,902 7,207
Committee’s agreed benchmarking methodology.
% of maximum
Annual Bonus award(2) 0%(2) 97% 100% 42% 88%
Vesting of LTI awards 0%(3) 33% 38% 14% 31%
(1) Emma Walmsley’s total remuneration includes her pay for the period 1 January
to 31 March 2017, before she became CEO.
(2) Sir Andrew Witty received a pro-rata payment for 2017 in lieu of a variable
bonus opportunity, in accordance with the 2014 Remuneration policy.
(3) PSP and DABP awards for Sir Andrew Witty granted in 2015 did not vest
until April 2018, in accordance with the terms of the Executive financial
recoupment policy.
146147
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
GSK Annual Report 2022
Annual report on remuneration continued
Implementation of Remuneration policy for 2023
Fixed Pay Pay for performance
Salary Annual Bonus
The Committee is very aware of the sensitivity amongst There are no changes to the operation of the Annual Bonus plan.
stakeholders to levels of Executive pay. Before reviewing For full details of the policy please refer to pages 145 and 146 of the
Executive Directors’ salary, it considered the average increases 2021 Annual Report.
being awarded to employees below the level of Executive
Directors and was mindful of the multiplier effect of increases Bonus opportunity % of salary
in base pay. After due consideration of the wider economic
Target Maximum(1)
context, individual performance and market positioning it was
Emma Walmsley
agreed that it was appropriate to award increases below that 100 300
Iain Mackay
of the wider workforce to the CEO.
(1) 50% of the equivalent of the first 200% of salary is deferred, and any portion in
During the year, in addition to the 5% average salary increase, excess of 200% is deferred in full.
the company has implemented a number of monetary
Weighting of performance measures %
initiatives for our colleagues in the wider workforce, in reaction
Adjusted Strategic and ESG: diversity,
to the cost of living crisis, which can be found on pages 134 Total sales operating operational equity and
and 135. growth profit growth measures inclusion
Emma Walmsley
30 30 30 10
Base salary 2023 % change Iain Mackay
Wider workforce(1) – 5%
Inevitably, targets linked directly to our financial and strategic
Emma Walmsley £1,310,249 4%
plan are commercially sensitive. The Committee does not
Iain Mackay(2) £915,335 0%
consider it appropriate to disclose Annual Bonus targets during
(1) Based on the average increase budget for employees below the level of GLT in the year, as it may result in competitive harm. However, details
the UK.
of the performance targets will, as usual, be disclosed on a
(2) A s a known leaver on 31 December 2023, Mr Mackay is not eligible to receive a
salary increase. retrospective basis in the 2023 Annual Report.
Benefits
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan (DABP) 2023
No significant changes to the provision of benefits are
awards
proposed for 2023.
The table below provides details of the mandatory deferral into
For full details of the policy in relation to benefits, please refer
the DABP of the 2022 Annual Bonus payments and the
to the 2022 Remuneration policy report on page 144 of the
associated awards granted. The shares awarded have no
2021 Annual Report.
performance conditions, but must be held for three years,
regardless of continued employment.
Pension
Total bonus deferred DABP awards
The table below provides an overview of the pension into shares % Shares
arrangements for each Executive Director in 2023. Emma Walmsley 59.9 125,482
Executive Directors’ pensions were reduced to align with the Iain Mackay 56.0 77,751
wider UK workforce effective 1 January 2023.
Performance Share Plan (PSP) 2023 awards
Any new Executive Director’s pension will be aligned to the
The table below provides details of awards granted under
appropriate wider workforce on appointment.
the PSP.
2023 Pension contribution
% of salary Shares
Emma Walmsley – 7% of base salary contribution to defined
Emma Walmsley 575 501,927
Iain Mackay contribution plan and a further 3% in matched
contributions on the first £26,666 of salary in
accordance with the terms of the plan and LTI performance measures
– 7% of base salary as a cash payment in lieu The measures and weightings for the 2023 awards remain
of pension contribution on salary in excess of unchanged from those used for the 2022 awards. The
£26,666, or weightings for the five LTI measures are:
– 7% of base salary as a cash payment in lieu of
LTI measure Measure Weighting
pension contribution
Innovation Pipeline progress 20%
Performance Relative TSR 30%
Total sales growth 20%
Adjusted operating profit growth 20%
Trust ESG: environment 10%GSK Annual Report 2022
Annual report on remuneration continued
Implementation of Remuneration policy for 2023 continued
Innovation Performance
The Pipeline progress measure seeks to reward acceleration Relative TSR will continue to be measured against GSK’s
and strengthening of the pipeline. This is based on two Global pharmaceutical comparator group (see page 146).
equally weighted elements of our key assets or indications The total sales growth and adjusted operating profit growth
measured over a three-year performance period. measures recognise the importance of our commercial
ambitions and the Committee has set targets that align with
Points are allocated for successful assets in each sub-
those ambitions. The targets for total sales growth and
measure based upon their forecast commercial value (peak
adjusted operating profit growth are commercially sensitive
year sales) at the end of the performance period.
at the time of grant.
The sub-measures for the 2023 award will vest as follows:
ESG: environment
Pivotal trial starts
The ESG: environment measure is based on the goal of
Focuses mainly on phase III registrational trial starts, but
having a Nature Net Positive and Climate Net Zero impact
may also include phase II starts.
by 2030 (see pages 45 and 46). The targets for the ESG:
Performance level Points Payout environment measure for the 2023 grant are based on a
series of Nature goals relating to Water, Waste & Materials
Below Threshold <12 Nil
reduction, Biodiversity impact and Climate goals that
Threshold 12 25%
incorporate Scope 1 & 2 emission reduction targets, carbon
14 50%
offsetting and our industrialisation of green Ventolin.
16 75%
Maximum 20 100% The ESG: environment measure includes six key performance
measures:
Major regulatory approvals
– 3x Climate ambitions
Performance level Points Payout
– 3x Nature ambitions
Below Threshold <17 Nil
To achieve:
Threshold 17 25%
19 50% – 75% vesting, all six measures must have met their
20 75% 2025 targets
Maximum 22 100%
– 100% vesting, two of the six measures, at least one in
The Pipeline progress measure is commercially sensitive at Climate and one in Nature, must have exceeded their
the time of grant. At the end of the performance period we 2025 targets
will provide disclosure of what has been achieved.
Shareholdings versus Share Ownership Shares subject to performance conditions are excluded from
each Executive Director’s SOR calculation until the end of the
Requirement (SOR) (audited)
performance period. These vested shares are then included as
To align the interests of Executive Directors with those
part of the Director’s SOR to the extent that the performance
of shareholders, they are required to build and maintain
conditions are met. The value of the holdings has been
significant holdings of shares in GSK over time. Executive
calculated on a post-tax basis.
Directors are required to continue to satisfy these Share
Ownership Requirements (SOR) by holding 100% of their SOR Emma Walmsley and Iain Mackay, at the date of publication
for the first 12 months after leaving GSK and not less than 50% of this Report, exceed their SOR. Dr Hal Barron exceeded his
of their SOR for months 13-24 after leaving GSK. SOR prior to his transition to a Non-Executive Director role on
1 August 2022.
Value of holdings as % of salary
SOR The company has processes in place to ensure that each
% of salary 3 March 2023 31 December 2022
Executive Director maintains their SOR after leaving GSK. Each
Emma Walmsley 650 1,292 1,031
Executive Director agrees to the terms of the SOR as part of
Iain Mackay 300 406 228
their service contract.
148149
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
GSK Annual Report 2022
Annual report on remuneration continued
Implementation of Remuneration policy for 2023 continued
Termination arrangements for Executive Directors
As announced during 2022, Iain Mackay will step down as CFO and Executive Director on 1 May 2023, continue as an employee
and leave the company on 31 December 2023.
Remuneration element Summary of treatment
Annual Bonus Eligible to receive bonuses which will be determined by the Committee based on a combination of business
and individual performance for his service during 2022 and 2023.
PSP Not eligible to receive any further PSP awards.
Outstanding PSP and DABP awards All existing LTI awards will be retained and PSP awards will be pro-rated for time.
DABP deferred bonus awards Awards in respect of bonuses deferred in 2022 and prior years will vest at their normal vesting dates.
In addition to the above, Iain Mackay will be required to maintain his SOR in accordance with the company’s Remuneration policy.
Remuneration arrangements for Julie Brown
The Committee considered the remuneration arrangements The Committee sought to ensure Ms Brown was compensated
that would be appropriate to enable the company to recruit on a like-for-like basis as far as possible when concluding her
and retain an experienced CFO within the criteria for the role buyout payments, which are set out below:
in the company’s 2022 Remuneration policy.
– a sum (the Bonus Buyout) equivalent to Ms Brown’s on-
Given Julie Brown’s wealth of experience as a CFO and of the target Burberry bonus for the period from 1 April 2022 to
industry, it was agreed that her remuneration should be set in 31 March 2023, which she will forego on leaving Burberry
line with Iain Mackay’s remuneration, as follows:
– a sum (the LTI Buyout) equivalent to the aggregate value of
(i) her outstanding Burberry LTIs and SIP shares, which will
Remuneration element Notes
be lost on leaving Burberry, at a price equivalent to the
Salary £951,948 Ms Brown’s salary was preliminarily
set in line with that of her average price of such shares for the one-month period
predecessor in September 2022 ended on 7 September 2022, and (ii) the value of any
(£915,335) and her salary upon dividend equivalents accruing on those shares between their
joining will be 4% higher than this
date of award and her departure from Burberry. Given that
figure, in line with the increase
agreed for the CEO. The the Burberry LTIs are not subject to a performance measure,
comparator group for pay for and only to a performance underpin, no discount will be
the CFO remains the European applied to the value of the shares so calculated
cross-industry comparator group
as set out on page 146. The Committee agreed that these payments would be made in
stages over a two year period as follows, as cash amounts
Annual Bonus £951,948 The on-target bonus would be
equivalent to:
100%, with a maximum of 300%
for incremental exceptional
– the Bonus Buyout and one-third of 85% of the LTI Buyout will
performance as for Mr Mackay.
be paid to her in the first payroll following the
Award of Long Term £1,903,896 This assumes an expected value
commencement of her employment with GSK
Incentives (LTIs) of 50% of an award of
performance shares under the PSP – one-third of 85% of the LTI Buyout will be paid to her in the
at a 4x multiple of base salary as first payroll following the first anniversary of the
for Mr Mackay.
commencement of her employment and
Share Ownership 300% of This is in line with the 2022
Requirement (SOR) salary Remuneration policy. – one-third of 85% of the LTI Buyout will be paid to her in the
first payroll following the second anniversary of the
Pension Pension arrangements will be in
line with those of the wider UK commencement of her employment
workforce in accordance with
In addition, she will be paid an amount equivalent to 15% of
GSK’s commitment from 1 January
2023. the LTI Buyout in the first payroll following the commencement
of her employment. Ms Brown has agreed that she will invest
Benefits Benefits will be in line with GSK’s
the net of tax proceeds of this 15% tranche in GSK shares at the
policy and arrangements for other
executives to support them in first reasonably available opportunity, subject to dealing
undertaking their role. clearance, and that she will then hold those shares for a period
of at least two years. Ms Brown’s SOR as CFO will be three
times her base salary which she will be required to build over
time.GSK Annual Report 2022
Annual report on remuneration continued
Remuneration governance
Committee role and membership Statement of consideration of shareholder views
These details are available on page 107 and are incorporated The Committee engages in regular dialogue with shareholders
by reference into this Report. The Chair, CEO, Chief People and holds annual meetings with GSK’s largest investors to
Officer, Head of Reward, Group Financial Controller and the discuss and take feedback on its Remuneration policy
Company Secretary assisted the Committee during the year. practices and governance matters.
Adviser to the Committee
2022 AGM voting
The company undertook a full commercial tender process
Details of voting levels in respect of our Remuneration
during 2022 and appointed Willis Towers Watson LLP (WTW)
arrangements are set out below.
as independent adviser to the Committee with effect from
1 December 2022. WTW replaced PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP Votes
Total votes Total votes Total votes withheld
(PwC) who served as independent adviser up to 1 December cast (billion) for (%) against (%) (million)
2022 and for over four years in total.
2022 AGM
Both WTW and PwC are members of the Remuneration Remuneration report 3.6 91.05 8.95 12.3
Consultants’ Group and, as such, voluntarily operate under Remuneration policy 3.6 61.76 38.24 13.3
the code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration
consulting in the UK. The code of conduct can be found at Service contracts and letters of appointment
www.remunerationconsultantsgroup.com. The table below sets out the dates of the Executive Directors’
service contracts, which are available for review at the
WTW provided additional market data to the Committee and
company’s registered office and on gsk.com, with the exception
other HR consulting services to the company prior to and after
of Julie Brown, whose contract will be available on gsk.com
their appointment as independent Committee advisers. During
following her appointment. Each Executive Director’s service
the year, in addition to providing consultancy services to the
contract contains a 12-month notice period.
Committee, PwC also provided other consulting and assurance
services to the company prior to WTW’s appointment. Date of contract Effective date Expiry date
Emma Walmsley 29.03.17 01.04.17 30.06.34
In line with the protocols agreed and set by the Committee
Iain Mackay 18.09.18 14.01.19 n/a
Chair under which WTW and PwC provided their advice, the
Julie Brown 25.09.22 01.05.23 n/a
Committee is satisfied that such advice has been objective
and independent. During their respective tenures in 2022, The Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment,
PwC and WTW have provided independent commentary on which are available to view at the company’s registered office.
matters under consideration by the Committee and updates Each Non-Executive Director is expected to serve on the Board
on market practice and legislative requirements. until the end of the AGM following the third anniversary of their
appointment. This is subject to election and subsequent
The Committee also reviewed the potential for conflicts of
annual re-election. Subject to mutual agreement, they are
interest and judged that there were appropriate safeguards
each expected to serve a further three years, and up to nine
against such conflicts. WTW’s and PwC’s fees for advice
years from appointment in line with the provisions of the FRC’s
during that period, which were charged on a time and
UK Corporate Governance Code, subject to annual re-election.
materials basis, were £4,000 and £162,945 respectively.
The Committee is satisfied that these fees did not
compromise either firm’s independence.
150151
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
GSK Annual Report 2022
Annual report on remuneration continued
Remuneration governance continued
Committee focus during 2022
Items discussed
Remuneration policy – Prepared and agreed the proposed 2022 Remuneration policy
The Committee sets the Remuneration policy for – Remuneration impact of Consumer Healthcare demerger
shareholder approval and then determines the – Shareholder and advisory body engagement on new Remuneration
remuneration of the Executive Directors, the Chair and policy. See page 133 for further details
other corporate officers in line with that policy.
– Review and consideration of shareholder and proxy adviser
feedback
– Amendments to the proposed Remuneration policy following
careful consideration of shareholder feedback
– Continued engagement with shareholders
Salary review – Executive Director and GLT benchmarking, competitiveness and
The Committee periodically reviews and considers the GSK comparator groups
remuneration environment for Executive Directors and GLT – GLT and Company Secretary salary review and recommendations
and approves, when appropriate, annual adjustments as for 2022
necessary having regard to performance, market – Executive Director salary review and recommendations for 2023
positioning and the remuneration of the wider workforce. – Setting remuneration for Julie Brown, the new CFO
– Review of company Chair’s fee
Annual Bonus – CEO, Executive Directors and GLT 2021 bonus recommendations
The Committee is responsible for setting specific and 2022 CEO and Executive Directors’ bonus objectives
performance measures for the Annual Bonus and for – Proposed new Annual Bonus performance measures aligned with
assessments of performance against these measures. June 2021 Investor Update commitments
LTI plans – LTI performance outcomes and award vesting for the CEO,
The Committee is responsible for approving LTI plan rule Executive Directors, GLT and below
changes, grants, assessments of performance, and the – Confirmation of LTI grants for the CEO, Executive Directors, GLT
vesting of LTI awards for the Executive Directors, GLT and and below
below (including interim awards). – Proposed new performance conditions aligned with June 2021
Investor Update commitments
Governance and other areas of focus – Remuneration considerations and Committee programme for 2022
The Committee adheres to a robust remuneration – Review of Terms of Reference
governance framework, ensuring alignment between – Committee evaluation annual review
internal actions and external reporting/compliance
– 2021 Remuneration report
requirements. – Confirmation of 2022 Group Budget for remuneration purposes
– AGM and Remuneration report feedback, the external
remuneration environment and performance target disclosure for
incentive plans
– 2022 Remuneration report disclosures, including CEO pay ratio
– Annual Governance Meeting key Committee messages
– Committee Chair consultation with employee representatives
on setting pay and wider workforce pay practices
– Remuneration adviser tender processGSK Annual Report 2022
Annual report on remuneration continued
Non-Executive Directors’ fees
Chair and other Non-Executive Directors
The company aims to provide the Chair and other Non- Executive Directors with fees that are competitive with those paid by
other companies of equivalent size and complexity, subject to the limits contained in its Articles of Association.
Chair’s fees
The Chair’s fee was set at £700,000 per annum, nearly four years ago in September 2019 when he was first appointed to the
Board. It has remained unchanged since that time. After a review of independently sourced data by the Committee in January
2023 it was agreed that it was appropriate to increase his fees by £35,000 to £735,000 from 1 January 2023 – a 5% increase from
the rate originally set in 2019.
During 2022 the Chair invested approximately 25% of his pre-tax fees in notional shares under the GSK NED share allocation plan
(NED plan). Since September 2022 he invests approximately 25% of his net fees in the purchase of GSK shares.
2022 Non-Executive Directors’ fees
The Non-Executive Directors’ fees that applied during 2022 are set out in the table below:
Per annum
Standard annual fee £95,000
Supplemental fees
Chair of the Audit & Risk Committee £80,000
Senior Independent Director £50,000
Scientific & Medical Experts £30,000
Chairs of the Remuneration, Corporate Responsibility and Science committees and Workforce Engagement Director £40,000
Science Committee members undertaking significant additional responsibilities on behalf of GSK to support R&D Up to £200,000
Non-Executive Director undertaking intercontinental travel to meetings £7,500 per meeting
Standard annual fee for Non-Executive Directors
The standard Non-Executive Director annual fee was last increased in 2020. Following a review of independently sourced data
and recognising the ever-increasing workload for Non-Executive Directors it was agreed that it was appropriate to increase the
standard annual fee by £3,800 (4%) from £95,000 to £98,800 per annum from 1 January 2023.
With a view to further simplicity, creating greater transparency of the overall standard Non-Executive Director fee and based on
review of independent data, going forward the intercontinental travel allowance of £7,500 per meeting will be added to the
standard fee. Ordinarily, Non-Executive Directors are expected to travel overseas to attend two meetings per year and so can
expect to receive two travel allowance payments totalling £15,000. The Chair does not receive this allowance. This amount will
now be added to the Non-Executive Director standard fee from 1 January 2023 bringing the total standard fee to £113,800.
Non-Executive Director Share Ownership Requirement
Following approval of the new Remuneration policy at the last AGM, in July 2022 it was agreed to implement a minimum Non-
Executive Director share ownership requirement (SOR) of at least one times the annual standard fee (or the Chair’s fee) to be
maintained until after retirement from the Board. The Chair, non-US based Non-Executive Directors and newly appointed
Non-Executive Directors commenced purchasing shares or ADS in the market towards their new Non-Executive Director SOR
from September 2022. US Non-Executive Directors began purchasing ADS towards their SOR from 1 January 2023.
Shareholder approval will be sought at the AGM for an administrative amendment to the Non-Executive Director section of the
Remuneration policy to allow the notional shares or ADS previously allocated under the Non-Executive Director plan to be
delivered to the Chair and Non-Executive Directors at such time as the Committee and Board considers appropriate after any
applicable tax withholding. This would be subject to the Chair and Non-Executive Directors undertaking to hold these shares or
ADS until they retire from the Board. This change will not only give the company greater operational flexibility, it will also reduce
the administrative burden of operating the Non-Executive Director plan, and will ensure that the Chair and Non-Executive
Directors directly maintain a meaningful and prudent level of investment which closer aligns their interests with shareholders.
The company does not expect to make any significant changes to the fee structure for Non-Executive Directors during the
remainder of the 2022 Remuneration policy period.
152153
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
GSK Annual Report 2022
Annual report on remuneration continued
2022 Total fees (audited)
The audited table below sets out the value of fees and benefits received by the Non-Executive Directors in the form of cash and
shares or ADS. Further details of the NED plan are set out on page 155. Non-Executive Directors fees paid in a currency other than
Sterling are converted using an average exchange rate that is reviewed from time to time. The average exchange rates were
updated in 2022. Non-Executive Directors fees were converted to US Dollars using an exchange rate of $1.3481 in 2022. Benefits
comprise the grossed up cash value of travel and subsistence costs incurred in the normal course of business, in relation to
attendance at Board and Committee meetings and in fulfilling their role as Non-Executive Directors.
2022 2021
Non-Executive Directors’ Fixed fees Fixed fees
emoluments (000) (audited) Cash Shares/ADS Benefits Total pay Cash Shares/ADS Benefits Total pay
Sir Jonathan Symonds £525 £175 £10 £710 £525 £175 £3 £703
Elizabeth McKee Anderson $35 $8 – $43 – – – –
Charles Bancroft – $287 $10 $297 – $210 $5 $215
Dr Hal Barron $150 $16 $11 $177 – – – –
Dr Anne Beal $138 $46 $15 $199 $62 $21 – $83
Dr Hal Dietz $174 $58 $2 $234 – – – –
Dr Jesse Goodman $182 $61 $31 $274 $164 $55 $23 $242
Urs Rohner £112 £31 £23 £166 £101 £34 £11 £146
Dr Vishal Sikka – $58 – $58 – – – –
Retired Directors
Vindi Banga(1) £65 £22 £4 £91 £109 £36 £1 £146
Dame Vivienne Cox(1) £55 £18 £1 £74 £101 £34 £1 £136
Lynn Elsenhans(1) $74 $25 $23 $122 $134 $45 $5 $184
Dr Laurie Glimcher(2) – $136 $20 $156 – $165 $13 $178
(1) R etired from the Board on 18 July 2022.
(2) R etired from the Board on 13 October 2022.GSK Annual Report 2022
Annual report on remuneration continued
Directors’ interests in shares (audited)
Executive Directors’ interests in shares
The interests of the Executive Directors of the company in office during 2022 and their persons closely associated (PCA) are
shown in the table below:
As at 31 December 2022
Unvested share plan interests
Beneficial Subject to
Total directors’ interests interests Not subject to performance performance
3 March 2023(1) 31 December 2022(1) Shares/ADS(2) Shares/ADS(3,7) Options(4,7) Shares/ADS(5)
Shares
Emma Walmsley 1,503,484 1,334,155 493,081 656,084 184,990 1,550,844
Iain Mackay 471,595 284,967 – 157,965 127,002 783,978
ADS
Dr Hal Barron 552,499 547,374 306,004 241,370 – 348,459
1) Total directors’ interests includes beneficial interests and unvested share plan interests not subject to performance. For Emma Walmsley and Iain
Mackay, the balance as at 3 March 2023 includes shares/ADS awarded in 2020 under the PSP and the DABP which vested in February 2023 less
those sold to satisfy tax liabilities on the vested amounts where relevant. ADS awarded in 2020 under the PSP and the DABP to Dr Hal Barron will
not vest until August 2023 in accordance with the terms of the Executive and Senior Management Recoupment Policy. Executive Directors’
shareholdings against their SOR are outlined on page 148.
2) B eneficial interests includes shares/ADS held by the Executive Directors and their PCAs. For Emma Walmsley, this includes 2,166 shares purchased
through the GSK Share Reward plan. Iain Mackay does not currently participate in the Share Reward plan. As a US employee, Dr Hal Barron was
not eligible to participate in the Share Reward plan which is only open to UK employees. Dr Barron’s beneficial interests include ADS and notional
ADS held by way of his investments in the GSK 401(k) plan and the Executive Supplemental Savings Plan (ESSP). Further details on Dr Barron’s
membership of these plans can be found on page 138.
3) U nvested shares/ADS not subject to performance represent PSP shares/ADS which have vested but are subject to an additional two-year holding
period. Unvested ADS not subject to performance for Dr Barron also represent bonus deferrals (as described in note 7 below).
4) Unvested options not subject to performance represent bonus deferrals under the DABP which are awarded as nil-cost options (as described in
note 7 below). This figure excludes 790 options held by Emma Walmsley under the GSK Share Save plan.
5) Unvested shares/ADS subject to performance represent unvested PSP awards.
6) Vested but unexercised options: None of the Directors hold vested but unexercised options.
7) D ABP: The table below shows bonus deferrals and subsequent reinvestment of dividends under the DABP. The amounts represent the gross
shares/ADS balances prior to the sale of any shares/ADS to satisfy tax liabilities on vesting. As UK employees, bonus deferrals under the DABP are
granted as nil-cost options to Emma Walmsley and Iain Mackay.
DABP (Bonus deferrals) 3 March 2023 31 December 2022 1 January 2022
Shares
Emma Walmsley 251,541 184,990 176,801
Iain Mackay 164,988 127,002 71,972
ADS
Dr Hal Barron 104,563 103,600 101,801
8) Options exercised in 2022: The following table sets out details of options (including nil-cost options under the DABP) exercised during 2022 by
Executive Directors. Iain Mackay did not exercise any options during the year.
Number of shares Date of Market price
Type of award Date of grant under option exercise Grant price at exercise Gain on exercise
Emma Walmsley
Deferral award – DABP 13.02.2019 72,296 14.02.22 £0.00 £16.10 £1,164,000
Share Save 29.11.2018 744 25.02.22 £12.09 £15.82 £2,775
In respect of the nil-cost options awarded in 2019 under the DABP, the bonus which is deferred by the Executive Director was recorded as
remuneration (under Annual Bonus) in the Total remuneration table in respect of 2018. The number of shares under option includes the initial
award amount together with reinvested dividends accrued to the date of exercise.
In respect of options under the GSK Share Save plan, the remuneration receivable by an Executive Director is calculated on the date that the
options first vest. The remuneration is the difference between the amount the Executive Director is required to pay to buy the shares and the total
value of the shares on the vesting date. If the Executive Director chooses not to exercise the options on the vesting date, any subsequent increase
or decrease in the amount realised will be due to movements in the share price between the vesting date and the date of exercise. This increase or
decrease in value is the result of an investment decision by the Executive Director and, as such, is not recorded as remuneration.
154155
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
GSK Annual Report 2022
Annual report on remuneration continued
Directors’ interests in shares (audited) continued
Non-Executive Directors’ interests in shares
The interests of the Non-Executive Directors of the company in office during 2022 and their persons closely associated (PCA) are
shown in the table below:
Share allocation plan for Non-Executive Directors
Total directors’ interests as at(1) Number of shares/ADS
Beneficial
interests at
31 December 31 December Dividends 31 December Elected &
2022 2022 reinvested 2022 or Adjustments allocated
3 March or date of or date of after date of for share during 1 January
2023 retirement retirement(2) year end retirementconsolidation(4) the year(3) 2022
Shares
Sir Jonathan Symonds 69,045 68,316 33,925 728 34,391 (8,598) 15,273 27,716
Vindi Banga(5) – 93,391 57,440 – 35,951 (8,987) 12,266 32,672
Dame Vivienne Cox(5) – 12,252 – – 12,252 (3,062) 4,767 10,547
Urs Rohner 19,710 19,317 798 392 18,519 (4,630) 6,722 16,427
ADS
Elizabeth McKee Anderson – – – – – – – –
Charles Bancroft 15,804 15,564 – 240 15,564 (2,617) 10,715 7,466
Dr Anne Beal 1,800 1,777 – 23 1,777 (233) 1,507 503
Dr Hal Barron 552,499 547,374 306,004 – – – – –
Dr Hal Dietz 1,593 1,575 – 18 1,575 (164) 1,739 –
Lynn Elsenhans(5) – 47,692 800 – 46,892 (11,722) 14,631 43,983
Dr Laurie Glimcher(6) – 27,408 – – 27,408 (6,430) 11,186 22,652
Dr Jesse Goodman 12,614 12,375 – 238 12,375 (2,846) 4,999 10,222
Dr Vishal Sikka 1,147 1,147 1,147 – – – – –
1) T otal directors’ interests include beneficial interests and any notional shares/ADS received as all or part of their fees under the NED plan.
Dividends received on notional shares/ADS under the NED Plan during the year and in January 2023 were converted into notional shares/ADS
as at 12 January 2023.
2) Beneficial interests includes shares/ADS held by the Non-Executive Directors and their PCAs.
3) N otional shares/ADS allocated during the year under the NED plan includes (i) dividends reinvested during the year; and (ii) the reinvestment, on
demerger, of an amount equivalent to the value of the Haleon plc shares/ADS attributable to the Non-Executive Directors’ notional allocation of
GSK plc shares/ADS (see note 4 below).
4) T o align as closely as possible the treatment of Non-Executive Directors in respect of their NED plan allocations with those of shareholders on the
demerger and share consolidation, NED plan allocations were adjusted as follows: (a) an amount equivalent to the value of the Haleon plc shares/
ADS attributable to the Non-Executive Directors’ notional holding of GSK plc shares/ADSs was reinvested so as to increase those notional
allocations of GSK plc shares/ADS on 18 July 2022; and (b) all notional GSK share/ADS allocations in the NED plan, including allocations arising
under (a), were consolidated at a ratio of four new notional GSK shares/ADS for every five notional GSK shares/ADS held as at 18 July 2022.
5) Vindi Banga, Dame Vivienne Cox and Lynn Elsenhans all retired from the Board on 18 July 2022.
6) Dr Laurie Glimcher retired from the Board on 13 October 2022.GSK Annual Report 2022
Annual report on remuneration continued
Percentage change in remuneration of Directors
2022 percentage change 2021 percentage change 2020 percentage change
Salary/fee Benefits Bonus Salary/fee Benefits Bonus Salary/fee Benefits Bonus
% % % % % % % % %
UK employees(1) 3.0 2.26 44.81 2.0 0.0 4.85 2.5 0.0 1.1
Executive Directors(2,3)
Emma Walmsley 3.0 (2.2) 38.2 2.0 (5.0) 94.6 8.0 (26.6) (33.4)
Iain Mackay 3.0 20.2 32.4 2.0 56.1 94.2 5.6 11.5 (31.6)
Dr Hal Barron(4) (29.2) (26.2) (66.2) 5.4 150.0 100.1 2.5 (91.2) (34.9)
Non-Executive Directors(2,5,6)
Sir Jonathan Symonds 0.0 233.3 – 0.0 50.0 – 201.7 0.0 –
Elizabeth McKee Anderson – – – – – – – – –
Charles Bancroft 36.7 100.0 – 156.1 – – – – –
Dr Hal Barron(4) – – – – – – – – –
Dr Anne Beal 121.7 – – – – – – – –
Dr Hal Dietz – – – – – – – – –
Dr Jesse Goodman 11.0 34.8 – (5.6) 0.0 – (12.5) (65.2) –
Urs Rohner 5.9 109.1 – (5.6) 175.0 – 16.3 (69.2) –
Dr Vishal Sikka – – – – – – – – –
Retired Non-Executive Directors(2,5,6)
Vindi Banga (40.0) 300.0 – (4.6) (50.0) – 23.6 (50.0) –
Dame Vivienne Cox (45.9) 0.0 – (5.6) (50.0) – 55.4 (75.0) –
Lynn Elsenhans (44.7) 360.0 – (7.3) (75.0) – (12.3) (73.3) –
Dr Laurie Glimcher (17.6) 53.8 – (8.3) (61.8) – (18.2) (55.3) –
(1) This table is provided in accordance with Schedule 8 of The Companies (Directors’ Remuneration Policy and Directors’ Remuneration Report) Regulations 2019. The UK
employee population was considered to be the most relevant comparison as it most closely reflects the economic environment encountered by the majority of the
Executive Directors.
(2) Percentage changes have been calculated based on the 2022 Total remuneration table on page 136 for Executive Directors and the 2022 Total fees table on page 153 for
Non-Executive Directors. Increases in benefits for Non-Executive Directors are due to increased travel costs following the return to in-person meetings post-COVID-19.
(3) Further information on Executive Directors’ salary and benefits can be found on page 137.
(4) Dr Hal Barron transitioned to a Non-Executive Director role on 1 August 2022.
(5) Fees of Non-Executive Directors include fees received as cash and in the form of shares or ADS under the terms of the NED plan.
(6) See page 123 for details of Non-Executive Director changes during the year.
Directors and Senior Management
Further information is provided on compensation and interests of Directors and Senior Management as a group (the group).
For this purpose, the group is defined as the Executive and Non-Executive Directors, other members of the GLT and the Company
Secretary. For the financial year 2022, the following table sets out aggregate remuneration for the group for the periods during
which they served in that capacity.
Remuneration for 2022 £
Total compensation paid 31,807,039
Aggregate decrease in accrued pension benefits (net of inflation) (19,550)
Aggregate payments to defined contribution schemes 1,739,677
During 2022, members of the group were awarded shares and ADS under the company’s various LTI plans, as set out in the table
below. To align the interests of Senior Management with those of shareholders, Executive Directors and GLT members are
required to build and maintain significant holdings of shares in GSK over time. GLT members are required to hold shares to an
equivalent multiple of two times their base salary, and must continue to satisfy these share ownership requirements for a minimum
of 12 months after leaving GSK.
Awards Dividend reinvestment awards
Awarded during 2022 Shares ADS Shares ADS
Performance Share Plan 1,973,531 52,484 317,026 32,823
Deferred Investment Awards(1,2) – – 17,352 419
Share Value Plan(2) 16,380 – – –
1) N otional shares and ADS.
2) Executive Directors are not eligible to receive Deferred Investment Awards or participate in the Share Value Plan.
156157
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
GSK Annual Report 2022
Annual report on remuneration continued
Directors and Senior Management continued
At 3 March 2023, the group and their PCAs had the following interests in shares and ADS of the company. Interests awarded
under the various LTI plans are described in Note 44 to the financial statements, ‘Employee share schemes’ on pages 262 to 263.
Interests at 3 March 2023 Shares ADS
Owned 2,533,721 409,464
Unexercised options 3,160 –
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan 842,660 118,293
Performance Share Plan 7,084,743 617,307
Deferred Investment Awards(1,2) 280,056 8,968
Share Value Plan(2) 68,345 5,740
1) N otional shares.
2) E xecutive Directors are not eligible to receive Deferred Investment Awards or participate in the Share Value Plan.
Fees in respect of Executive Directors’ external appointments
CEO
Emma Walmsley is an independent non-executive director of Microsoft Corporation. During 2022, she received $360,208, of
which $125,208 was delivered as cash and $235,000 as stock options under the Microsoft Corporation’s Deferred
Compensation Plan for its non-employee directors.
CFO
On 11 July 2022, Iain Mackay became an independent non-executive director of National Grid plc. During 2022, he received
£33,330 in fees which was delivered as cash.
Payments to past Directors (audited)
No payments were made to past Directors in 2022 with the exception of the value of the deferred bonus and accrued dividends made to
Simon Dingemans, as described on page 142 of the 2021 Annual Report.
Payments for loss of office (audited)
No loss of office payments were made during 2022.
How our Remuneration policy continues to reflect Provision 40 of the UK Corporate Governance
Code (the Code)
Clarity and simplicity
The remuneration arrangements for the Executive Directors are set out in a clear and simple way in the Remuneration policy.
Whilst compiling and before finalising the Remuneration policy, the Committee consulted extensively with 40 shareholders
representing 45% of our issued share capital, to ensure its full understanding of their views on the policy and transparency and
clarity of the proposals and how they would be implemented. The fixed remuneration elements (salary, benefits and pension) are
closely aligned with wider workforce arrangements and our pay for performance plans (Annual Bonus and Long-term incentive)
reward delivery of financial, strategic and ESG objectives in the short and long term.
Risk
In line with the Code, we operate both deferral and post-vesting holding arrangements, in addition to operating malus and
clawback provisions. The Committee retains discretion to adjust award outcomes (to zero if appropriate) should it consider the
payout determined does not appropriately reflect the overall position and performance of the company.
Predictability and proportionality
Our Remuneration policy defines maximum limits on the total Annual Bonus and Long-term incentive opportunities, and payouts
under these elements are linked to fulfilment of performance conditions that support the company’s publicly stated ambitions.
Through its implementation, maximum reward under our short- and long-term plans are only achievable for material
outperformance against our stated ambitions.
Alignment to culture
GSK’s purpose, strategy and culture continue to be directly reflected in the performance conditions set under the Annual Bonus
and Long-term incentive. In particular, we have introduced an ESG measure in both our short- and long-term plans. These
currently reinforce our diversity, equity and inclusion aspirations for 2025, and our Nature Net Positive and Climate Net Zero
ambition by 2030. Our Share Ownership Requirements strengthen the focus on our strategic aims, and ensure alignment with the
interests and experiences of shareholders, both during and after employment.
The Committee believes the Remuneration policy has been operated as intended in terms of company performance and
quantum during 2022.GSK Annual Report 2022
2022 Remuneration policy summary
The company’s Remuneration policy was approved on 4 May 2022 at GSK’s Annual General Meeting and has operated as intended
since its approval. The full policy is available at gsk.com in the Investors section. Two administrative amendments to the company’s
Remuneration policy are being proposed for binding shareholder approval at GSK’s 2023 Annual General Meeting, as described on
page 163.
Executive Director Remuneration policy
Salary To provide a core reward for the role. Set at a level appropriate to secure and retain high calibre
individuals needed to deliver the Group’s strategic priorities.
Operation Opportunity
Individual’s role, experience, performance and independently There is no formal maximum limit and, ordinarily, salary
sourced data for relevant comparator groups considered when increases will be broadly in line with the average increases for
determining salary levels. the wider GSK workforce.
Salary increases typically take effect in the first quarter of However, increases may be higher to reflect a change in the
each year. scope of the individual’s role, responsibilities or experience.
Salary adjustments may also reflect wider market conditions in
Salaries are normally paid in the currency of the Executive
the geography in which the individual operates.
Director’s home country.
Details of current salary levels are set out in the Annual report
on remuneration.
Performance measures
The overall performance of the individual is a key consideration
when determining salary increases.
Benefits Levels are set to recruit and retain high calibre individuals to execute the business strategy.
Operation Where an Executive Director is based outside the UK, but is
required to travel to the UK to fulfil the responsibilities of their
Executive Directors are eligible to receive benefits in line with
role and to attend Board Meetings, they may be subject to tax
the policy for other employees which may vary by location.
on their business travel expenses to and from the UK and on
These include, but are not limited to, car allowances,
the provision of any accommodation in the UK. Although in
healthcare, life assurance/death in service (where not provided
reality it represents a business expense, the tax treatment
as part of the individual’s pension arrangements), personal
requires that their travel and accommodation expenses are
financial advice and contractual post-retirement benefits. In
then included as benefits. Because of the business context, the
line with the policy for other employees, Executive Directors
tax liabilities will be covered by the company on a grossed-up
may be eligible to receive overseas relocation allowances
basis.
and international transfer-related benefits when required.
Executive Directors in the UK are also eligible to participate Benefit provision is tailored to reflect market practice in the
in all-employee share schemes (e.g. Share Save and Share geography in which the Executive Director is based and
Reward plans), under which they are subject to the same terms different policies may apply if current or future Executive
as all other employees. Directors are based in a different country.
In order to recognise the high business travel requirements of Opportunity
the role, Executive Directors are also entitled to car travel and
There is no formal maximum limit as benefits costs can
exceptionally may be accompanied by their spouse/partner on
fluctuate depending on changes in provider cost and individual
business trips. Other benefits include expenses incurred in the
circumstances.
ordinary course of business, which are deemed to be taxable
benefits on the individual. Details of current benefits and costs are set out in the Annual
report on remuneration.
Performance measure
None
158159
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
GSK Annual Report 2022
2022 Remuneration policy summary continued
Executive Director Remuneration policy continued
Pension Pension arrangements provide a competitive level of retirement income.
Pension arrangements provide a competitive level of retirement Any new Executive Directors in the UK will receive from date
income. of appointment:
– 7% of base salary contribution to defined contribution plan
Operation
and further 3% in matched contributions subject to any
Pension arrangements are structured in accordance with the
relevant cap and in line with implementation principles for
plans operated in the country in which the individual is likely to
other members of the plan; and
retire. Where the individual chooses not to become a member
– 7% of base salary as a cash payment in lieu of pension
of the pension plan, cash in lieu of the relevant pension
contribution for the portion above the relevant cap;
contribution is paid instead. Executive Directors in the UK are
or
entitled either to join the defined contribution pension plan or
– 7% of base salary as a cash payment in lieu of pension
to receive a cash payment in lieu of pension contribution.
contribution.
Where an individual is a member of a GSK legacy defined US(1):
benefit plan, a defined contribution plan or an alternative – Supplemental Cash Balance pension plan, providing annual
pension plan arrangement and is subsequently appointed contribution of 38% of base salary, less 5% of total base salary
to the Board, he or she may remain a member of that plan. and bonus (net of the bonus deferred under the DABP)(3).
– GSK 401(k) plan(1) and the ESSP(1) with core contributions of 7%
Opportunity
of salary and bonus(2) and matched contributions of 4% of
The policy for all current Executive Directors is:
salary and bonus(2).
UK: From 1 January 2023, any current US Executive Directors who
– 20% of base salary contribution to defined contribution plan are still in role will have their pension arrangements aligned to
and further 5% in matched contributions subject to any new Executive Directors’ arrangements as follows.
relevant cap and in line with implementation principles for
Any new Executive Directors in the US will receive from date of
other members of the plan; and
appointment:
– 20% of base salary as a cash payment in lieu of pension
– GSK 401(k) plan(1) and the ESSP(1) with core contributions of 7%
contribution for the portion above the relevant cap;
of salary and bonus(2) and matched contributions of 4% of
or
salary and bonus(2).
– 20% of base salary as a cash payment in lieu of pension
Global:
contribution.
– Eligible for appropriate equivalent arrangement not in excess
From 1 January 2023, any current UK Directors who are still in
of the US/UK arrangements.
role will have their pension arrangements aligned to new
Executive Directors’ arrangements as follows. Performance measures
None.
(1) I n the event of any change to the plans operated in the US, a similar treatment
would be provided under any successor arrangements introduced within the market
(2) Less bonus deferred under the DABP
(3) T he 5% offset is equal to the contribution to the 401(k) and ESSP which was
moved from the pension plans, in line with the wider US workforce, from 1
January 2021
Annual Bonus To incentivise and recognise execution of the business strategy on an annual basis. Rewards the
achievement of stretching annual financial, strategic and operational measures.
Operation The Committee may adjust the formulaic vesting outcome
(either up or down) to ensure that the overall outcome reflects
Financial, operational and business targets are set at the start
underlying business performance over the vesting period.
of the year by the Committee and bonus levels are determined
Clawback and/or malus provisions apply as described on page
by the Committee based on performance against those
147 of the 2021 Annual Report.
targets.
Strategic and operational measures are set at the start of the Opportunity
year by the Committee and performance against those The maximum bonus opportunity for Executive Directors is
measures is assessed by the Committee. 300% of salary. Below 99% of target performance, the bonus
payout on the financial measures will be nil. For target
Executive Directors are required to defer part of any bonus earned
performance, the bonus payout will be 100% of salary.
into shares, or ADS as appropriate, for three years. 50% of the
equivalent of the first 200% of salary is deferred, and any portion in
excess of 200% is deferred in full. Deferred bonus shares are
eligible for dividend equivalents up to the date of vesting.GSK Annual Report 2022
2022 Remuneration policy summary continued
Executive Director Remuneration policy continued
Performance measures
Based on a combination of financial targets and individual/ For this reason the majority of the Annual Bonus opportunity is
strategic and ESG performance objectives, with the majority based on a formal review of performance against stretching
of the bonus assessed against the financial measures. The financial targets, with the remainder of the bonus subject to
weighting between different measures will be determined each assessment of individual performance against the key strategic
year according to business priorities. Further details, including and operational measures which are aligned to the company’s
the measures to be used in the financial year, are provided in key objectives for that financial year and/or assessment of
the Annual report on remuneration. performance against ESG targets.
The Annual Bonus financial targets are set by reference to
Selection of Annual Bonus measures
internal budget and external consensus targets.
The Annual Bonus is designed to drive the achievement of
GSK’s annual financial, strategic and operational measures.
Performance To incentivise and recognise delivery of the longer term business priorities, financial growth and
Share Plan (PSP) increases in shareholder value compared to other pharmaceutical companies. In addition, to
provide alignment with shareholder interests, a retention element, to encourage long-term
shareholding and discourage excessive risk taking.
Operation Opportunity
Conditional awards are made annually with vesting dependent The normal maximum award limits that may be granted under
on the achievement of performance conditions over three years the PSP to an individual in any one year are set out in the table
and are subject to an additional two-year holding period. PSP below:
targets are set by reference to internal budget and external
% of salary
consensus targets.
CEO 600
Awards are eligible for dividend equivalents up to the date of CFO 400
vesting and release. Other Executive Directors 500
The Committee may adjust the formulaic vesting outcome Performance measures
(either up or down) to ensure that the overall outcome reflects Based on a combination of financial, share price related and
underlying business performance over the vesting period. strategic and ESG performance conditions which are aligned
to the company’s strategic plan. For all measures, 25% of
Clawback and/or malus provisions apply as described on
awards will vest at threshold performance. Further details,
page 147 of the 2021 Annual Report.
including the performance targets attached to the PSP in
respect of each year, and the weightings of the targets for
the 2022 PSP awards are provided in the Annual report on
remuneration.
Selection of Long-term incentive measures Any major adjustment in the calculation of performance
measures will be disclosed to shareholders on vesting.
The Committee selects performance measures which focus
Executive Directors’ long-term remuneration on the delivery of The Audit & Risk Committee chair and other members, who are
GSK’s key strategic priorities over the longer term. In addition to also members of the Remuneration Committee, provide input
setting robust targets, the Committee has implemented a number on the Audit & Risk Committee’s review of the Group’s
of safeguards to ensure the targets are met in a sustainable way performance and oversight of any risk factors relevant to
and performance reflects genuine achievement against targets remuneration decisions.
and therefore represents the delivery of value for shareholders.
Details of the rationale behind the performance measures
For each performance measure, the impact of any acquisition selected and how they are calculated are set out in the 2021
or divestment will be quantified and adjusted for after the Annual report on remuneration.
event.
160161
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
GSK Annual Report 2022
2022 Remuneration policy summary continued
Executive Director Remuneration policy continued
Share Ownership Requirements
No change
To align the interests of Executive Directors with those of As a minimum, Executive Directors are required to maintain
shareholders, they are required to build and maintain 100% of their share ownership requirements to the end of
significant holdings of shares in GSK over time. The the first year following retirement from the company and 50%
requirements for each Executive Director are as follows: to the end of the second year.
%% salary
CEO 650
Other Executive Directors 300
For details of our policy on clawback and malus, approach to recruitment remuneration, loss of office and termination payments,
please refer to the full 2022 Remuneration policy report on pages 144 to 152 of the 2021 Annual Report, available on gsk.com in
the Investors section
Differences between Remuneration policy for Executive Directors and other employees
When setting remuneration for the Executive Directors, While employees are not directly consulted in respect of the
the Committee considers the company’s strategic priorities, Remuneration policy, Urs Rohner, the Committee Chair,
prevailing market conditions for global talent, the competitive meets with senior HR representatives from across the business
environment (through comparison with the remuneration of to review employee feedback. Dame Vivienne Cox, an
executives at companies of similar size, complexity and Independent Non-Executive Director, engages with employees
international reach) and the positioning and relativities of pay on various topics, including remuneration, in her role as
and employment conditions across the broader GSK workforce. Workforce Engagement Director. Board members engage
with employees around during Board meetings where they are
In particular, the Committee considers the range of base
encouraged to share their views on the company, management
salary rises for the workforces of those parts of GSK where
and remuneration.
the Executive Directors are employed. This is considered to
be the most relevant comparison as these populations reflect Since approval of the Policy in May 2022, the Board has
most closely the economic environments encountered by the evolved its approach to workforce engagement. Further details
individuals. are provided on page 115.
The same principles apply to the Remuneration policy for In the wider organisation, we have aligned our performance
Executive Directors and other employees although and reward systems with our Innovation, Performance and
the remuneration offered to Executive Directors under this responsible business priorities and with a culture anchored in
policy has a stronger emphasis on performance-related pay purpose and performance. Our performance system evaluates
than that offered to other employees of the Group. employees on both ‘what’ they need to do and ‘how’ they do it.
Also, for our most senior people we disincentivise unethical
– Salary and benefits (including pension) are tailored to the
working practices using a clawback mechanism that allows us
local market
to recover performance-related pay.
– The Annual Bonus plan applies to the wider employee
population and is based on business performance
– A combination of performance-related and restricted share
plans apply to the wider employee population
– All-employee share plans are available to employees in the
UK, including the HM Revenue & Customs approved UK
Share Save and Share Reward plansGSK Annual Report 2022
2022 Remuneration policy summary continued
Non-Executive Director Remuneration policy 2022
Non-Executive Directors’ fees
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation
Chair’s fees To provide an inclusive flat There is no formal maximum. However, fees are reviewed annually and set by reference to a
rate fee that is competitive review of the Chair’s performance and independently sourced market data.
with those paid by other
The Committee is responsible for evaluating and making recommendations to the Board
companies of equivalent size
on the fees payable to the Chair. The Chair does not participate in discussions in respect of their
and complexity subject to
fees.
the limits contained in GSK’s
Articles of Association.
Basic fees As above There is no formal maximum. As with the Chair, fees are reviewed annually and set by reference
to independently sourced data.
The Chair and CEO are responsible for evaluating and making recommendations to the Board
on the fees payable to the company’s Non-Executive Directors.
Fee payment Alignment with shareholders Fees are paid in cash. Non-Executive Directors (including the Chair) were required to invest at
least 25% of their total net fees in shares or ADS of the company. The company has since
replaced the 25% minimum investment requirement with a minimum share or ADS ownership
requirement of at least one times the Non-Executive Director’s (or Chair’s) gross annual standard
fees to be retained until their retirement from the Board. An administrative amendment to this
section of the Remuneration policy is proposed for binding shareholder approval at the 2023
AGM as described on page 163.
Supplemental To compensate Non- Additional fees for the Senior Independent Director, Committee Chairs, Scientific and Medical
fees Executive Directors (other Experts, the Workforce Engagement Director role and intercontinental travel.
than the Chair) for taking on The company has the authority to pay an additional fee, up to the equivalent of the Committee
additional Board Chair supplement to a Non-Executive Director, should the company require significant additional
responsibilities or time commitment in exceptional or unforeseen circumstances.
undertaking intercontinental
The company has the authority to pay an additional fee of up to £200,000 to Non-Executive
travel.
Directors (excluding the Chair) who are members of the Science Committee for undertaking
additional responsibilities on behalf of GSK and to support R&D.
Benefits To facilitate execution of Travel and subsistence costs for Non-Executive Directors are incurred in the normal course of
responsibilities and duties business in relation to meetings on Board and Committee matters and other GSK-hosted events.
required by the role. For overseas-based Non-Executive Directors, this includes travel to meetings in the UK. In the
event it is necessary for business purposes, whilst not normal practice, Non-Executive Directors
may be accompanied by their spouse or partner to these meetings or events. The costs
associated with the above are all met by the company and, in some instances, they are deemed
to be taxable and therefore treated as benefits for the Non-Executive Director.
Approach to recruitment remuneration
The following policy and principles apply to the roles of Chair Non-Executive Directors
and Non-Executive Director. It seeks to ensure alignment with
Fee levels for new Non-Executive Directors will be set on the
shareholders through the requirement to invest in company
same basis as for existing Non-Executive Directors of the
shares and ADS.
company, subject to local laws and regulations.
Chair
In the event of a Non-Executive Director with a different role
Fees will be set at a level that is competitive with those paid by and responsibilities being appointed, fee levels will be
other companies of equivalent size and complexity. Fees will be benchmarked and set by reference to comparable roles in
paid partly in shares. companies of equivalent size and complexity.
Loss of office
The Chair and other Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to receive any payments in respect of fees for loss of office when they retire
or step down from the Board.
162163
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
GSK Annual Report 2022
Administrative amendments to the 2022 Remuneration policy
Proposed amendments Clawback and malus
Two administrative amendments to the company’s 2022 Shareholder approval will be sought to amend the Clawback
Remuneration policy (Policy), which was approved at last year’s and malus section of the Policy to expressly refer to the
AGM, are being proposed as ordinary resolutions for binding company’s ability to update its clawback policies, and to make
shareholder approval at the AGM on 3 May 2023. The Policy disclosures in relation to clawback, in each case as required by
is subject to renewal in respect of remuneration for 2025. Given applicable regulatory requirements, including the recently
that these changes are purely administrative, a full consultation adopted Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) rules
with employees was not undertaken on these amendments. (and the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) listing standards
implementing those rules) on clawback in the event of an
Non-Executive Directors’ minimum share accounting restatement.
ownership requirement The SEC adopted new rules, in late 2022, which require the
The Non-Executive Directors section of the 2022 Policy NYSE (amongst others) to adopt new listing standards that
includes a requirement for Non-Executive Directors (including require a listed company to clawback erroneously awarded
the Chair) to invest a minimum of 25% of their net basic fees in incentive-based compensation whenever it is required to
shares or ADS of the company. The Policy also states that, prepare an accounting restatement that corrects an error in a
should the company replace this requirement, any shares or previously issued financial statement, or that would result in a
ADS previously acquired in accordance with this 25% minimum material misstatement if the error were corrected in the current
investment requirement would: (i) continue to be held under period or left uncorrected in the current period. These new
those previous arrangements, (ii) count towards any expected listing standards are expected to become effective in late
minimum ownership requirement; and (iii) be delivered or 2023. GSK shares are listed and traded on the NYSE in the
released following the Non-Executive Director’s (or Chair’s) form of ADS and GSK will, as a result, be subject to the new
retirement from the Board. listing standards which are expected to require clawback in
circumstances that are wider than those currently provided for
The company has since replaced the 25% minimum investment
by the company’s policies. The related SEC rules will also
requirement, as set out in the 2021 Annual Report, with a
require GSK to make certain disclosures in connection with its
minimum share or ADS ownership requirement of at least one
clawback policy in its annual report on Form 20-F (including
times the Non-Executive Director’s (or Chair’s) gross Annual
filing a copy of the clawback policy with the SEC).
Standard Fees to be retained until their retirement from the
Board. The proposed changes to the ‘Clawback and malus’ element of
the Policy are intended to ensure clarity by expressly referring
Shareholder approval will be sought to amend the Non-
to the company’s ability to update its clawback policies, and to
Executive Directors section of the Policy to allow the shares or
make disclosures in relation to clawback, in each case as
ADS acquired under the previous 25% minimum investment
required by applicable regulatory requirements (including the
requirement to be delivered or released to the Non-Executive
SEC and NYSE requirements). The Committee will update its
Director (or Chair) at such time as the Board (excluding that
current recoupment policies as required to meet the new NYSE
Non-Executive Director or the Chair) considers appropriate
listing standards and the related SEC disclosure requirements
(subject to any applicable tax withholding), rather than
once they become effective.
continue to be held under the previous arrangements.
This is subject to the Non-Executive Directors (or the Chair)
undertaking to the company to hold such shares or ADS in
the company until they retire from the Board. This will give
the company greater operational flexibility, and reduce the
administrative burden, in the implementation of the new
minimum share ownership requirement whilst ensuring that the
Non-Executive Directors (and the Chair) continue to maintain a
meaningful and prudent level of investment which aligns their
interests with shareholders.GSK Annual Report 2022
Operation and scope of Remuneration policy
The Remuneration policy (Policy) is set out on pages 144 to 152 (ii) before the Policy came into effect, provided that the terms
of the 2021 Annual Report and it is intended that the Policy for of the payment were consistent with the shareholder-approved
GSK’s Executive and Non-Executive Directors will operate for a Remuneration policy in force at the time they were agreed; or
period of three years from the date of approval at the
(iii) at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of
company’s Annual General Meeting on 4 May 2022.
the company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the
The Committee wrote the Policy principally in relation to the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming
remuneration arrangements for the Executive Directors, whilst a Director of the company. For these purposes ‘payments’
taking into account the possible recruitment of a replacement includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable
or an additional Executive Director during the operation of the remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares or ADS,
Policy. The Committee intends the Policy to operate for the the terms of the payment are ‘agreed’ at the time the award is
period set out above in its entirety. However, it may after due granted.
consideration seek to change the Policy during this period,
Performance Share Plan (PSP) awards are subject to the
but only if it believes it is appropriate to do so for the long-term
terms of the PSP plan rules under which the award has been
success of the company, after consultation with shareholders
granted. The Committee may adjust or amend awards only in
and having sought shareholder approval at a general meeting.
accordance with the provisions of the plan rules. This includes
The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration making adjustments to reflect one-off corporate events, such
payments and/or payments for loss of office (including as a change in the company’s capital structure.
exercising any discretions available to it in connection with
The Committee may also make minor amendments to the
such payments) notwithstanding that they are not in line with
Policy (for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative
the Policy where the terms of the payment were agreed:
purposes or to take account of a change in legislation) without
(i) before the AGM on 7 May 2014 (the date the company’s obtaining shareholder approval for such amendments.
first shareholder-approved Directors’ Remuneration policy
came into effect);
Basis of preparation
The Annual report on remuneration has been prepared in The Annual report on remuneration has been approved
accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and The Large by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by:
and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and
Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013 (the Regulations).
In accordance with the Regulations, the following parts of
Urs Rohner
the Annual report on remuneration are subject to audit: total Remuneration Committee Chair
remuneration figures for Executive Directors including further
9 March 2023
details for each element of remuneration (salary, benefits,
pension, Annual Bonus and Long-term incentive awards);
Non-Executive Directors’ fees and emoluments received in the
year; Directors’ interests in shares, including interests in GSK
share plans; payments to past Directors; payments for loss
of office; and share ownership requirements and holdings,
for which the opinion thereon is expressed on page 181. The
remaining sections of the Annual report on remuneration are
not subject to audit nor are the pages referred to from within
the audited sections.
164GSK Annual Report 2022
Financial
statements
In this section
Directors’ statement of responsibilities 166
Independent Auditor’s report 168
Financial statements 182
Notes to the financial statements 186
Financial statements of GSK plc
prepared under UK GAAP 268
165GSK Annual Report 2022
Directors’ statement of responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate
the Remuneration report and the Group and parent company accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy
regulations. at any time the financial position of the Group and to enable
them to ensure that the Group financial statements and the
UK company law requires the Directors to prepare financial
Remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006.
statements for each financial year. The Directors are required
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the
to prepare the Group consolidated financial statements in
Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the
accordance with International Accounting Standards in
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
conformity with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006
and the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as The Group financial statements for the year ended
issued by the International Accounting Standards Board 31 December 2022, comprising principal statements and
(IASB). The Directors have elected to prepare the parent supporting notes, are set out in the ‘Financial statements’
company financial statements in accordance with United on pages 182 to 267 of this report. The parent company
Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law (United financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2022,
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice) (Financial comprising the balance sheet and the statement of changes in
Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework). equity for the year ended 31 December 2022 and supporting
Under company law the Directors must not approve the notes, are set out on pages 268 to 272.
financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a
The responsibilities of the auditor in relation to the financial
true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and its
statements are set out in the Independent Auditor’s report on
profit or loss for that period. In preparing the financial
pages 168 to 181.
statements, the Directors are
required to: The financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2022
are included in the Annual Report, which is published in printed
– select suitable accounting policies and then apply them
form and made available on our website. The Directors are
consistently;
responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate
– make judgements and accounting estimates that are and financial information included on the company’s website.
reasonable and prudent; Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation
and dissemination of financial statements may differ from
– state that the Group financial statements comply with
legislation in other jurisdictions.
IFRS, as issued by the IASB and in conformity with the
requirements of the Companies Act 2006; Each of the current Directors, whose names and functions are
listed in the Corporate Governance section of the Annual
– state with regard to the parent company financial
Report 2022 confirms that, to the best of his or her knowledge:
statements that applicable UK Accounting Standards have
been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed – the Group financial statements, which have been prepared
and explained in the parent company financial statements; in accordance with IFRS, as issued by the IASB and in
and conformity with the requirements of Companies Act 2006,
give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial
– prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis
position and profit of the Group;
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the
parent company will continue in business. – the Strategic report and risk sections of the Annual Report,
which represent the management report, include a fair
In preparing the Group financial statements, International
review of the development and performance of the business
Accounting Standard 1 requires that directors properly select
and the position of the company and the Group taken as a
and apply accounting policies; present information, including
whole, together with a description of the principal risks and
accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant,
uncertainties that it faces; and
reliable, comparable and understandable information; provide
additional disclosures when compliance with the specific – the annual report and financial statement, taken as a whole,
requirements in IFRS Standards are insufficient to enable users are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the
to understand the impact of particular transactions, other information necessary for shareholders to assess the
event and conditions on the entity’s financial position and company’s position and performance, business model
financial performance; and make an assessment of the and strategy.
company’s ability to continue as a going concern.
166GSK Annual Report 2022
167
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Directors’ statement of responsibilities continued
Disclosure of information to auditor The 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code
The Directors in office at the date of this Annual Report have The Board considers that GSK plc applies the principles and
each confirmed that: complies with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance
Code maintained by the Financial Reporting Council, as
– so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit
described in the Corporate Governance section on pages 97 to
information of which the company’s auditor is unaware; and
131. The Board further considers that the Annual Report, taken
– he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides
taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any the information necessary for shareholders to assess the
relevant audit information and to establish that the Group’s position and performance, business model and
company’s auditor is aware of that information. strategy.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in As required by the Financial Conduct Authority’s Listing Rules,
accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the the auditor has considered the Directors’ statement of
Companies Act 2006. compliance in relation to those points of the UK Corporate
Governance Code which are specified for their review.
Going concern basis
Pages 66 to 95 and pages 55 to 61 contain information on Annual Report
the performance of the Group, its financial position, cash flows, The Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2022,
net debt position, borrowing facilities and climate related comprising the Report of the Directors, the Remuneration
risks. Further information, including Treasury risk management report, the Financial statements and Additional information
policies, exposures to market and credit risk and hedging for investors, has been approved by the Board of Directors
activities, is given in Note 44 to the financial statements, and signed on its behalf by
‘Financial instruments and related disclosures’. Having
assessed the principal risks and other matters considered
Sir Jonathan Symonds
in connection with the viability statement, the Directors
Chair
considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis
9 March 2023
of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
Internal control
The Board, through the Audit & Risk Committee, has reviewed the
assessment of risks and the internal control framework that
operates in GSK and has considered the effectiveness of the
system of internal control in operation in the Group for the year
covered by this Annual Report and up to the date of its approval
by the Board of Directors. Further detail on the review of internal
controls is set out in the Governance report on page 125.GSK Annual Report 2022
Independent Auditor’s report to the members of GSK plc
Report on the audit of the financial statements
1. Opinion 2. Basis for opinion
In our opinion: We conducted our audit in accordance with International
Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and applicable law.
– The financial statements of GSK plc (the ‘Parent company’)
Our responsibilities under those standards are further
and its subsidiaries (the ‘Group’) give a true and fair view of
described in the auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the
the state of the Group’s and of the Parent company’s affairs
financial statements section of our report.
as at 31 December 2022 and of the Group’s profit for the
year then ended; We are independent of the Group and the Parent company in
accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to
– The Group financial statements have been properly
our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the
prepared in accordance with United Kingdom adopted
Financial Reporting Council’s (the ‘FRC’s’) Ethical Standard as
international accounting standards and International
applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as issued by the
our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these
International Accounting Standards Board (IASB);
requirements. We confirm that we have not provided any
– The Parent company financial statements have been non-audit services prohibited by the FRC’s Ethical Standard to
properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom the Group or the Parent company, as noted in the Audit & Risk
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice including FRS 101 Committee report within the Corporate Governance section of
“Reduced Disclosure Framework”; and the Annual Report on page 124 and the disclosure provided in
– The financial statements have been prepared in accordance Note 8 regarding fees payable to the Group’s auditor.
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is
We have audited the financial statements which comprise the: sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Group
3. Audit scope and execution
– Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2022;
We structured our approach to the audit to reflect how the
– Consolidated income statement for the year then ended; Group is organised as well as ensuring our audit was both
– Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for effective and risk focused. Our audit approach can be
the year then ended; summarised into the following areas that enabled us to obtain
the evidence required to form an opinion on the Group and
– Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year
then ended; Parent company financial statements:
– Consolidated cash flow statement for the year then – Risk assessment and audit planning at a Group level. The
ended; and central control and common systems throughout most of the
Group enabled us to structure our audit centrally. The use of
– Notes 1 to 47 to the financial statements, which includes
the accounting principles and policies. data analytic tools allowed for a more detailed
understanding of the flow of transactions, enabling us to
Parent company focus our risk assessment and design targeted audit testing
procedures. Our risk assessment procedures considered,
– Balance sheet as at 31 December 2022;
amongst other factors, the impact of the global pandemic
– Statement of changes in equity for the year then ended;
and climate change on the account balances, disclosures
and
and company practices. We appointed partners from the
– Notes A to M to the financial statements, which includes Group audit team to lead the global audit of the revised
the accounting principles and policies.
operating segments (commercial operations, research &
development and consumer healthcare), in addition to
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the
partners responsible for the component and legal entity
preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable
audits in each country. These segment partners met
law, United Kingdom adopted international accounting
regularly with senior segment management to understand
standards and IFRSs as issued by the IASB. The financial
the strategy, performance and other matters which arose
reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation
throughout the year that could have impacted the financial
of the Parent company financial statements is applicable law
reporting. Our risk assessment and audit planning included
and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101
consideration of the separation of the consumer healthcare
“Reduced Disclosure Framework” (United Kingdom Generally
business from the Group on 18 July 2022. In addition, we held
Accepted Accounting Practice).
regular meetings with members of the Internal Audit, the
internal Legal Counsel and the Global Ethics & Compliance
teams to understand their work and to review their reports to
enhance our risk assessment;
168GSK Annual Report 2022
169
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Independent Auditor’s report continued
Report on the audit of the financial statements continued
– Audit work performed at global shared service centres. controls deficiencies disclosed in the key audit matters section
A significant amount of the Group’s operational processes that of this report, mitigating controls existed which allowed us to
cover financial reporting is undertaken in shared service continue to take reliance on controls where planned.
centres. Our Group audit team included senior individuals
Our audit scope addressed 79% (2021: 73%) of the Group’s
responsible for each of the global processes who coordinated
revenue, 91% (2021: 76%) of the Group’s profit before tax and
our audit work at the shared service centres in-scope for the
86% (2021: 85%) of the Group’s total assets.
Group audit to enable us to develop a good understanding of
the end-to-end processes that supported material account
The impact of climate change on our audit
balances, classes of transactions and disclosures within the
Climate change has the potential to impact the Group in a
Group financial statements. We then evaluated the
number of ways as set out in the strategic report on pages
effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting for
55 to 62 of the Annual Report and Notes 17, 19 and 20 of the
these processes and considered the implications for the
financial statements. The Group has set out their
remainder of our audit work;
environmental goals under the Paris Climate Accord to have
– Audit work executed at component level and individual legal a net zero impact on climate and a net positive impact on
entities. The following components were subject to audit nature by 2030.
procedures as well as the assessment of the effectiveness of
In the planning of our audit, we have considered the potential
internal controls over financial reporting, which include
impact of climate change on the Group’s business and its
in-scope entities in the consumer healthcare segment prior to
financial statements.
demerger: Australia; Belgium; Canada; China; France;
Germany; Italy; Japan; Spain; United Kingdom; and the United We have sought to understand the Group’s identification and
States. The Group audit team was in active dialogue assessment of the potential impacts of climate change, how
throughout the audit with the component audit teams these risks influence the Group’s strategy and their implications
responsible for the audit work under the direction and on the financial statements.
supervision of the Group audit team. This included determining
The Group’s assessment focused on the impacts of more
whether the work was planned and performed in accordance
frequent extreme weather conditions, water scarcity, changes
with the overall Group audit strategy and the requirements of
in the political landscape and media focus which has the
our Group audit instructions to the components. We have
propensity to cause changes in consumer and market
planned and performed site visits of components where
behaviour; volatility in the costs and availability of materials
overseas travel restrictions allowed. To satisfy ourselves that
and resources that could impact future financial performance
our oversight and supervision was appropriate we performed
and asset valuations.
reviews of audit working papers, increased the frequency and
length of those reviews depending on the significance and risk In consultation with our climate change specialists, we:
of the component and continued to attend the planning and – Conducted detailed risk assessment procedures across all
clearance meetings of components; in-scope balances and transactions to determine any risks of
– Audit procedures undertaken at a Group level and on the material misstatement in the financial statements by
parent company. In addition to the above, we also performed applying the expected impact of climate change to our
audit work on the Group and Parent company financial understanding of the business;
statements, including but not limited to the consolidation of – Challenged the appropriateness of the Group’s assessment
the Group’s results, the preparation of the financial statements, of the potential impact of climate change and the impact of
certain disclosures within the Directors’ Remuneration report, these on the financial statements, including in the area of
litigation provisions and exposures in addition to entity level intangible assets as described in section 6 to this report; and
and oversight controls relevant to financial reporting. All
– Used our own assessment of the impact of climate change
components or legal entities with annual revenue greater than
to challenge the Group’s assessment of going concern,
1.8% (2021-1.8%) of the total Group revenue were included in
including considering the potential impact on future
our audit scope. The components or legal entities not covered
performance and availability of financing.
by our audit scope were subject to analytical procedures to
confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of As part of our audit procedures, we are required to read and
material misstatement in the aggregated financial consider these disclosures to consider whether they are
information; and materially inconsistent with the financial statements or
knowledge obtained in the audit. We did not identify any
– Internal controls testing approach. We tested the
material inconsistencies as a result of these procedures.
effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting
across all in-scope entities, including in the consumer
healthcare segment pre-demerger, and entity level controls at 4. Our application of materiality
the Group level. Common systems allowed for relevant IT We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the
controls to be tested centrally across all components. The financial statements that makes it probable that the economic
consumer healthcare demerger impacted relevant IT systems decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be
prior to the demerger which was reflected in the scope of our changed or influenced. We use materiality both in planning the
IT testing. We were able to place reliance on controls where scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
planned and it was more efficient. Notwithstanding the ITGSK Annual Report 2022
Independent Auditor’s report continued
Report on the audit of the financial statements continued
Based on our professional judgement, we determined We set performance materiality at a level lower than
materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: materiality to reduce the probability that, in aggregate,
uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceed the
Parent company
Group financial statements financial statements materiality for the financial statements as a whole. Group and
Parent company performance materiality was set at 70% of
Materiality £210 million £52.5 million
(2021: £275 million) (2021: £68 million) Group and Parent materiality respectively for the 2022 audit
Basis for In determining our benchmark for Materiality was (2021: 70%). In determining performance materiality, we
determining materiality, we considered the determined using the considered factors including:
materiality metrics used by investors and total assets
– Our risk assessment, including our assessment of the Group’s
other readers of the financial benchmark capped at
statements. In particular, we 25% of Group overall control environment and that we consider it
considered: Statutory profit materiality. Our appropriate to rely on controls over a number of business
before tax, Adjusted profit before materiality represents processes; and
tax, Revenue and Net cash flows 0.1% of total assets.
from operations. – Our past experience of the audit, which has indicated a low
Using professional judgement, we number of corrected and uncorrected misstatements
have determined materiality to identified in prior periods.
be £210 million. Materiality
reduced compared to the prior We agreed with the Audit & Risk Committee that we would
year predominantly due to the report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of £10
lower benchmarks resulting from million (2021: £10 million) as well as any differences below this
the Consumer Healthcare
threshold, which in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative
demerger. We have removed the
impact of the Gilead Settlement grounds. We also report to the Audit & Risk Committee on
of £924 million received in Q1 disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the
2022 in determining our profit overall presentation of the financial statements.
before tax benchmark as this is a
nonrecurring item which it is not
reflective of the underlying trade 5. Conclusions relating to going concern
and due to its size would distort
In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that
materiality.
the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting in
The below benchmarks are from
the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.
continuing operations only as
these were considered most Our evaluation of the directors’ assessment of the Group’s and
relevant to the users of the
Parent company’s ability to continue to adopt the going
financial statements.
concern basis of accounting included:
Metric %
– Enquiries of the Group directors and management regarding
Statutory profit before tax 3.7%
the assumptions used in the going concern models, including
Adjusted profit before
2.9% the potential impact of climate change;
tax*
Revenue 0.7% – Evaluating the Group’s existing access to sources of
Net cash inflow from financing, including undrawn committed bank facilities,
3.2%
operating activities
including the impact of changes in interest rates on
* A reconciliation between the Statutory profitability;
profit before tax and Adjusted profit
before tax is detailed in the Adjusting – Reading analyst reports, industry data and other external
Items section of the strategic report.
information to determine if it provided corroborative or
Rationale Given the importance of the The Parent company contradictory evidence in relation to assumptions used;
for the above metrics used by investors holds the Group’s
benchmark and other readers of the financial investments and is not – Comparing forecasted sales to recent historical financial
applied statements, we concluded in itself profit- information;
`Statutory profit before tax` to be oriented. The strength
the primary benchmark. The of the balance sheet – Testing the underlying data generated to prepare the
adjusted profit before tax, is the key measure of forecast scenarios and determined whether there was
Revenue and Net cash inflow from financial health that is adequate support for the assumptions underlying the
operating activities, have been important to
forecast; and
used as supporting benchmarks. shareholders since the
The component materiality primary concern for – Evaluating the Group’s disclosures on going concern against
allocated to the in-scope the Parent company is the requirements of IAS 1.
components ranged between £40 the payment of
million and £125 million. dividends. Using a Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified
The range of materiality allocated benchmark of total any material uncertainties relating to events or conditions that,
assets is therefore the
across components (not including individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the
appropriate metric.
the parent company) in the audit Group’s and Parent company’s ability to continue as a going
of the prior year’s Group financial
concern for a period of at least twelve months from when the
statements was between £83
financial statements are authorised for issue.
million and £193 million.
170GSK Annual Report 2022
171
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Independent Auditor’s report continued
Report on the audit of the financial statements continued
In relation to the reporting on how the Group has applied the UK Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the Directors with
Corporate Governance Code, we have nothing material to add respect to going concern are described in the relevant sections
or draw attention to in relation to the Directors’ statement in the of this report accounting.
financial statements about whether the Directors considered it
appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting.
6. Key audit matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial
statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement (whether or not due to
fraud) that we identified. These matters included those which had the greatest effect on the overall audit strategy, the allocation
of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We have included two additional key audit matters in 2022: the consumer healthcare demerger and the valuation of the contingent
liabilities and significant legal proceedings. This reflects the additional audit effort required this year in relation to these.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion on the
financial statements as a whole, we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters
Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter
Valuation of the ViiV Healthcare Shionogi contingent Audit procedures performed
consideration liability We performed the following audit procedures, amongst others,
The Group has completed a number of significant related to the sales forecasts:
transactions which resulted in the recognition of material
– Obtained the Group’s assessment of the key inputs and
contingent consideration liabilities, which are a key source of
assumptions used in the forecasts and challenged the
estimation uncertainty. The most significant of these
reasonableness of these, including through enquiries of key
liabilities was the ViiV Healthcare Shionogi Contingent
individuals from the senior leadership team, commercial
Consideration Liability (ViiV CCL).
strategy team and key personnel involved in the budgeting and
The Group completed the acquisition of the remaining 50% forecasting process, and inspection of supporting evidence;
interest in the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture in 2012.
– Challenged the US volume assumptions made by the Group to
Upon completion, the Group recognised a contingent
estimate sales forecasts. This involved benchmarking forecast
consideration liability for the fair value of the expected
market share data against external data, such as total
future payments to be made to Shionogi. As at 31 December
prescription volumes and new patient prescription volumes, in
2022 the liability was valued at £5,890 million.
order to assess for any sources of contradictory evidence;
We identified the ViiV CCL as a key audit matter because of
– Challenged the reasonableness of US pricing assumptions
the significant estimates and assumptions relating to the
by the Group, by comparing the forecasted Returns and
sales forecasts used in valuing the ViiV CCL and the
Rebates rate by product against the current rate, and
sensitivity of the valuation to these inputs. The most
assessing the forecasted Returns and Rebates against
significant of these relate to sales forecasts in the United
comparable products considering expected changes in
States (US) on certain products in the treatment portfolio.
payer policy and healthcare reform implications;
Such forecasts are based on an assessment of the expected
launch dates, the ability to shift market practice and – Considered the results of clinical studies undertaken in the year
prescriber behaviour towards long-acting injectable by the Group and key competitors in order to assess whether
treatments and 2-drug regimens, the impact of healthcare these are corroborative or contradictory to assumptions used in
reform and subsequent sales volumes and pricing. There is the product portfolio sales forecasts in the US;
incremental challenge in forecasting sales associated with
– Benchmarked the Group’s sales forecasts against those
recently launched products due to the lack of historical
included in reports from nine analysts and considered sales
actual data. The forecasts also required significant audit
forecasts on both a total ViiV basis and an individual product
effort to perform appropriate audit procedures to challenge
basis, assessing against identified contradictory data; and
and evaluate the reasonableness of those forecasts.
– Tested the controls over the key inputs and assumptions used
Contingent consideration liabilities, including the ViiV CCL,
in the valuation of the contingent consideration liability,
are disclosed as a key source of estimation uncertainty in
including review controls over the sales forecasts of the
Note 3 of the Group financial statements with further
treatment product portfolio used to value the ViiV CCL.
disclosures provided in Notes 29, 33 and 44. The matter is
also discussed in the Audit & Risk Committee report within Key observations communicated to the Audit & Risk Committee
the Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report. The sales forecasts used in the valuation are reasonable and in
line with relevant supporting information. We are satisfied that
the sales forecasts appropriately reflect trends in the overall
HIV treatment and prevention markets including the impacts of
competition, healthcare reform and a predicted shifts towards
long-acting injectable products.
The approach to valuing the ViiV CCL was consistent with prior
periods and overall we are satisfied that the valuation liability is
reasonable and consistent with IFRS.GSK Annual Report 2022
Independent Auditor’s report continued
Report on the audit of the financial statements continued
Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter
Valuation of US Returns and Rebates (RAR) accruals Audit procedures performed
In the US the Group sells to customers under various We performed the following audit procedures, amongst others,
commercial and government mandated contracts and related to estimates in the RAR accruals:
reimbursement arrangements that include rebates,
– Challenged assumptions for a selection of utilisation rates,
chargebacks and a right of return for certain pharmaceutical
focusing on certain products where we concluded the
products. As such, revenue recognition reflects gross-to-net
accrual is most sensitive to these assumptions. Our challenge
sales adjustments. These adjustments are known as the
included comparison to historical utilisation rates,
Returns and Rebates (RAR) accruals and are a source of
consideration of historical accuracy and drivers of market
significant estimation uncertainty which could have a
changes such as the impact of competition and
material impact on reported revenue.
macroeconomic trends;
In US Commercial Operations in 2022 £15,272 million of RAR
– Supplemented this with substantive analytical procedures by
deductions were made to gross revenue of £29,814 million,
developing an independent expectation of the accrual
resulting in net revenue of £14,542 million. The balance sheet
balance for each of the key segments, based on historical
accrual at 31 December 2022 for US Commercial Operations
claims received adjusted to reflect market changes in the
amounted to £5,855 million.
period including an assessment of the time lag between the
The four most significant payer channels (also referred to as initial point of sale and the claim receipt. We then compared
buying groups) to which the RAR accrual relates are this independent expectation to those recorded to evaluate
managed healthcare organisations, Medicaid, Ryan White the appropriateness of the year ending accrual position;
and Medicare Part D.
– Considered the historical accuracy of estimates and
The two main causes of significant estimation uncertainty are: evaluated whether forecast assumptions had been
appropriately updated in a selection of cases where the
– The utilisation rate, which is the portion of total sales that
actual rebate claims differed to the amount accrued;
will be made into each payer channel, estimated by the
Group in recording the accruals. The utilisation assumption – Evaluated the appropriateness of, and completeness of,
is the most challenging of the key assumptions used to period-end adjustments to the liability made as part of the
derive the accrual given that it is influenced by market ongoing review of the estimated accrual; and
demand and other factors outside the control of the Group;
– Tested the key controls over the estimation of RAR accruals
and
including the controls associated with the forecasting of
– The time lag between the point of sale and the point at utilisation rates process and the month-end accrual review
which exact rebate amounts are known to the Group upon controls.
receipt of a claim. Those payer channels with the longest
Key observations communicated to the Audit & Risk Committee
time lag result in a greater accrued period, and therefore,
a greater level of estimation uncertainty in estimating the We are satisfied that the estimated liability of the RAR accruals
period end accrual. at the year-end is appropriate. We observed a level of
prudence in the estimate when assessing against our own
The level of estimation uncertainty is also impacted by
independent expectations, in accordance with the
significant shifts in channel mix driven by changes in the
requirements of IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers
competitive landscape, including competitor and generic
to limit the risk of a significant reversal of revenue.
product launches and other macroeconomic factors. As such,
we focus on the utilisation assumptions for those products
where we deem the level of estimation uncertainty to be the
most significant.
Furthermore, auditing standards presume that a significant
fraud risk exists in revenue recognition. In line with this
presumption, we also focus on the period-end adjustments
made to the RAR accruals. These adjustments reflected
updates made to the initial assumptions included within the
forecasted RAR rates and, in our view, present the greatest
opportunity for fraud in revenue recognition (notwithstanding
the existence of internal controls).
US Commercial Operations returns and rebates are disclosed
as a key source of estimation uncertainty in Note 3 of the
Group financial statements with further disclosures provided
in Note 29. The matter is also discussed in the Audit & Risk
Committee report within the Corporate Governance section
of the Annual Report.
172GSK Annual Report 2022
173
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Independent Auditor’s report continued
Report on the audit of the financial statements continued
Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter
Valuation of other intangible assets Audit procedures performed
As at 31 December 2022, the Group held £13,663 million of We performed the following audit procedures, amongst others,
other intangible assets (including licenses, patents, related to the future sales pricing, volume, growth rates and
trademarks, and trade names, but excluding goodwill and probability of technical and regulatory success, profit margin
computer software). This includes £2,964 million of levels, and discount rates used in the assessment in the
intangible assets acquired as part of business combinations valuation of other intangible assets:
with Sierra Oncology Inc and Affinivax Inc during the year.
– Inquired with the key individuals from the corporate
During 2022, impairment charges of £330 million were
development team, commercial forecasting leads, and key
recorded.
personnel involved in the assets research and development
An individual intangible asset, or an intangible asset which process to discuss and evaluate the Group’s evidence to
forms part of a cash-generating unit, is impaired when its support the future pricing, volume, sales growth rates and
carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The probability of regulatory and technical success;
recoverable amount of these other intangible assets relies
– Evaluated the key inputs and assumptions applied in estimating
on certain assumptions and estimates of future trading
sales and profit margin forecasts, including benchmarking of
performance which create estimation uncertainty.
forecasts against external market data. This included
Future trading performance of intangible assets includes independent market research of therapeutic area price points,
key assumptions such as sales pricing, volume, growth rates price growth rates, and anticipated competitor market
and probability of technical and regulatory success of landscape, currently and at the time of forecast regulatory
ongoing clinical trials. This includes assumptions on timing approval, plus assessment of any sources of contradictory
of cash flows determined by anticipated launch year, peak evidence;
year sales, subsequent sales erosion due to generic product
– Inspected independent research and literature to consider
competition and profit margin levels. In addition, due to the corroborative and contradictory evidence to assess
impact of uncertainty driven by ongoing global
assumptions on probability of technical and regulatory success;
macroeconomic volatility, the valuation of intangible assets
will also be affected by discount rate assumptions made by – Compared the forecast sales and profit margin levels to the
the Group. Plan data (asset by asset internal forecasts) approved by the
GSK Leadership Team and the Board of Directors, where the
We identified the valuation of other intangible assets as a
in-development intangible asset is forecast to launch within the
key audit matter due to the inherent judgements involved in
next 3-year period;
estimating future cash flows. Auditing such assumptions and
estimates required extensive audit effort to challenge and – Assessed the historical accuracy of sales forecasts by
evaluate the reasonableness of forecasts and judgements. performing retrospective reviews across marketed assets within
the business;
The disclosures relating to other intangible assets, including
those acquired as part of business combinations, are – Considered whether events or transactions that occurred after
included in Note 20 and 41 of the Group financial the balance sheet date but before the reporting date affect the
statements. The matter is also discussed in the Audit & Risk conclusions reached on the carrying values of the assets and
Committee report within the Corporate Governance section associated disclosures;
of the Annual Report.
– Engaged Internal Fair Valuation Specialists (IFVS) to assess the
reasonableness of discount rates and valuation methodology
applied; and
– Tested review controls over the key inputs and assumptions
used in the valuation of other intangible assets. The controls
encompass review of the valuation models, which contain a
number of assumptions such as the probability of technical and
regulatory success, launch dates plus other revenue and cost
assumptions number of assumptions such as the revenue
growth rates and profit margins.
Key observations communicated to the Audit & Risk Committee
For those intangible assets which were acquired during the
period as part of the Sierra Oncology Inc and Affinivax Inc
business acquisition, although we identified some control
deficiencies we concluded that the complex assumptions
underpinning the fair value of intangible assets reflected in
the purchase price allocations were reasonable and in
accordance with IFRS.
For those intangible assets in-development and subject to
impairment reviews we concluded that the judgements made
by the directors were reasonable and in accordance with IFRS.
We are satisfied that the controls over intangible assets are
designed and operating effectively or control deficiencies
identified were mitigated by compensating controls.GSK Annual Report 2022
Independent Auditor’s report continued
Report on the audit of the financial statements continued
Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter
Valuation of uncertain tax positions, including transfer pricing Audit procedures performed
The Group operates in numerous jurisdictions and there are With the support of tax specialists, we assessed the
open tax and transfer pricing matters and exposures with appropriateness of the uncertain tax provisions by performing
UK, US and overseas tax authorities that give rise to the following audit procedures amongst others:
uncertain tax positions. There is a wide range of possible
– Assessed and challenged provisions for uncertain tax
outcomes for provisions and contingencies. Certain
positions through the evaluation of possible outcomes. Our
judgements in respect of estimates of tax exposures and
procedures were focused on those jurisdictions where the
contingencies are required in order to assess the adequacy
Group has the greatest potential exposure and where the
of tax provisions, which are sometimes complex as a result
highest level of judgement is required;
of the considerations required over multiple tax laws and
regulations. – Assessed the assumptions and judgements that are required
to determine the range of possible outcomes for recognition
At 31 December 2022, the Group has recorded provisions of
and measurement of uncertain tax positions in compliance
£551 million in respect of uncertain tax positions.
with the requirements of IFRIC 23;
Valuation of uncertain tax positions is disclosed as a key
– Involved our transfer pricing specialists to evaluate the
source of estimation uncertainty in Note 3 of the Group
transfer pricing methodology of the Group and associated
financial statements with further disclosures included in
approach to provision recognition and measurement;
Note 14. The matter is also discussed in the Audit & Risk
Committee report within the Corporate Governance section – Considered evidence such as the actual results from the
of the Annual Report. recent tax authority audits and enquiries, third-party tax
advice obtained by the Group and our tax specialists’ own
knowledge of market practice in relevant jurisdictions; and
– Tested key controls over preparation, review and reporting of
judgmental tax balances and transactions, which include
provisions for uncertain tax provisions.
Key observations communicated to the Audit & Risk Committee
We are satisfied that the estimates in relation to uncertain tax
positions and the related disclosures are in accordance with
IFRS. From our work we concluded that a consistent approach
has been applied to estimating uncertain tax provisions which,
whilst continuing to be prudent as required by IFRIC 23, are
appropriate and supportable.
174GSK Annual Report 2022
175
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Independent Auditor’s report continued
Report on the audit of the financial statements continued
Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter
Consumer Healthcare Demerger Audit procedures performed
As set out in Note 41, on 18 July 2022, GSK plc separated its We performed the following audit procedures, amongst others,
Consumer Healthcare business from the GSK Group to form related to the Consumer Healthcare demerger:
Haleon, an independent listed company. The separation
– Consulted with technical accounting specialists to evaluate
was effected by way of a demerger of 80.1% of GSK’s 68%
the entity’s accounting conclusions in respect of the relevant
holding in the Consumer Healthcare business to GSK
accounting standards for the demerger steps including:
shareholders. GSK retained 13.5% of Haleon (7.5% are held
by Scottish Limited Partnership structures (SLPs)) which are – the presentation of Consumer Healthcare results as a part
recognised as an equity investment as set out in Note 22. of discontinued operations;
The Group derecognised net assets and liabilities of £12.9
– the calculation of the gain on demerger; and
billion and recognised a gain on demerger of £10.1 billion.
– the retained stake upon demerger.
The Consumer Healthcare trading results to the demerger
date have been presented as a part of discontinued – Recalculated the gain on demerger and the fair value of the
operations and the comparative results have been restated Consumer Healthcare business at the demerger date;
on a consistent basis. At the demerger date the assets and – Tested the accuracy and completeness of the perimeters of
liabilities of the Consumer business have been the demerged business by inspecting legal agreements and
derecognised from the balance sheet, with the difference recalculating the cumulative exchange differences arising on
between the value of the net assets and the fair value of translation of the foreign currency net assets;
the demerged business recognised in the consolidated
– Engaged tax specialists to assess the impact of the
income statement as a gain on demerger. The cumulative
demerger on the Group tax balances;
exchange differences arising on translation of those
Consumer Healthcare foreign currency net assets, – Engaged IT specialists to assess the impact on the relevant
previously included in other comprehensive income, have IT systems prior to the demerger of Consumer Healthcare;
also been recognised in the consolidated income and
statement.
– Tested key controls over IT and the reporting of the
We identified the demerger of Consumer Healthcare as a Consumer Healthcare Demerger including the review and
key audit matter because of the significant estimates approval of the accounting considerations, accuracy and
related to calculating the gain on demerger and completeness of transactions to the demerger date, the
remeasuring the retained stake upon demerger, assessing cumulative exchange reserve and the adjustments required
the perimeters of the demerged business, validating the in relation to the classification between continued and
cumulative exchange differences arising on translation of discontinued operations.
the foreign currency net assets of the divested businesses,
Key observations communicated to the Audit & Risk Committee
evaluating the Group’s tax treatment of the demerger and
assessing the impact on relevant IT systems prior to the We are satisfied that the Group’s accounting conclusions,
demerger. This required a high degree of auditor judgment calculation of the gain from demerger and presentation
and an increased extent of effort, including the need to of discontinued operations in respect of the demerger of
involve our technical accounting, tax, and IT specialists, the Consumer Healthcare business are appropriate and in
when performing audit procedures. accordance with IFRS.
The matter is also discussed in the Audit & Risk Committee
report within the Corporate Governance section of the
Annual Report.GSK Annual Report 2022
Independent Auditor’s report continued
Report on the audit of the financial statements continued
Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter
IT systems that impact financial reporting Audit procedures performed
The IT systems within the Group form a critical component Our IT audit scope is driven by the level of reliance placed on
of the Group’s financial reporting activities and impact all technology to obtain sufficient audit evidence within a business
account balances. process. The technology deemed relevant to the audit is based
on the financial data, system configured automated controls
We identified the IT systems that impact financial reporting
and/or key financial reports that reside within it. We used IT
as a key audit matter because of the:
specialists to support our evaluation of the risks associated
– Pervasive reliance on complex technology that is integral with technology and with the testing of the design and
to the operation of key business processes and financial operation of IT controls.
reporting;
Testing over the technology deemed relevant to the audit
– Reliance on technology which continues to increase in included the following areas:
line with the business strategy, such as the increase in the
– General IT controls, including user access and change
use of automation across the Group;
management controls;
– Importance of the IT controls in maintaining an effective
– Key financial reports and system configured automated
control environment. A key interdependency exists
controls;
between the ability to rely on IT controls and the ability to
rely on financial data, system configured automated – Controls to provide assurance over the completeness and
controls and system reports; accuracy of relevant data migrations, including GSK
Consumer Healthcare separation activities; and
– Continued remediation of IT controls supporting the
application systems relevant to the Group’s financial – Testing of remediation of previously identified deficiencies.
reporting activities; and
Our risk assessment procedures included an assessment of the
– Separation activities undertaken across the Technology impact of all unremediated IT control deficiencies to determine
environment as part of the GSK Consumer Healthcare the impact on our audit plan. Where relevant, the audit plan
separation programme. was adjusted to include the testing of additional manual
business process controls to mitigate the unaddressed IT risk.
IT systems which impact financial reporting are discussed
in the Audit & Risk Committee report within the Corporate Key observations communicated to the Audit & Risk Committee
Governance section of the Annual Report.
We are satisfied that IT controls impacting the Group’s financial
reporting activities are designed and operating effectively or
control deficiencies identified were remediated by year end or
mitigated by compensating controls.
Significant progress was made in remediating control deficiencies
relating to user access and change management. The Group has
many layers of business process controls to mitigate the risk
associated with the remaining IT control deficiencies.
176GSK Annual Report 2022
177
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Independent Auditor’s report continued
Report on the audit of the financial statements continued
Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter
Valuation of the contingent liabilities and significant legal Audit procedures performed
proceedings We performed the following audit procedures:
The Group operates in an environment where it is subject to
– Tested the Group’s controls over the completeness of
significant legal and administrative proceedings, including
provisions, the robustness of the provision against the
product liability, intellectual property, tax, anti-trust,
requirements of IAS 37, the appropriateness of judgements
consumer fraud and governmental regulations.
used to determine a ‘best estimate’ and completeness and
The Group is currently exposed to a number of regulatory accuracy of data used in the process;
and litigation matters. In the current year, the Group
– Evaluated the assessment of the provisions, associated
classified the Zantac litigation as a significant legal matter
probabilities, and potential outcomes in accordance with IAS
due to the increase in cases. The Group’s provision for these
37;
matters is £218 million at 31 December 2022. Other matters
are disclosed as contingent liabilities where the criteria for – Evaluated the methodology, data and significant
recognising a provision under IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent judgements and assumptions used in the valuation of the
Liabilities and Contingent Assets are not met. provisions are appropriate in the context of the applicable
financial reporting framework;
We identified contingent liabilities and significant legal
proceedings as a key audit matter because of the – Inquired with and inspected correspondence from the
significant judgement required by the Group in determining Group’s internal and external counsel to assess the litigation
whether, under IAS 37, in particular in relation to the Zantac matter and evaluate the Group’s significant judgements and
matter, as to: assumptions;
– Whether the outcome will result in a probable outflow, – Where no provision was made, we critically evaluated the
particularly where the outcome of litigation is uncertain Group’s conclusion supportive and contradictory evidence
and subject to additional court proceedings; and the requirements of IAS 37, particularly with respect to
the Zantac matter;
– The determination of a reliable estimate can be made of
the amounts of the obligation; and – In respect of the Zantac matter, we inspected the evidence
presented in relevant scientific studies and the outcomes of
– The nature and extent of any contingent liabilities and
other product liability litigation in the same jurisdictions
underlying significant estimation uncertainties disclosed.
alongside the entity’s assessment of possible outcomes of
Contingent liabilities and Significant legal proceedings are each ongoing and future trials; and
disclosed in Notes 35 and 47, respectively. The key audit
– Evaluated whether the disclosures made in the financial
matter is discussed within the Corporate Governance
statements appropriately reflect the facts and critical
section of the Annual Report.
accounting judgements.
Key observations communicated to the Audit & Risk Committee
We are satisfied that the estimation of the provisions and
contingent liability disclosures are consistent with the requirements
of IAS 37.GSK Annual Report 2022
Independent Auditor’s report continued
Report on the audit of the financial statements continued
7. Other information
The other information comprises the information included in the Annual Report, other than the financial statements and our
auditor’s report thereon. The Directors are responsible for the other information contained within the Annual Report. Our opinion
on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report,
we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially
inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in course of the audit or otherwise appears to be materially
misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether this gives
rise to a material misstatement in the financial statements themselves. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that
there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We summarise below our work in relation to areas of the other information including those areas upon which we are specifically
required to report:
Matters we are specifically required to report
Our responsibility Our reporting
Principal risks and viability statement
Review the confirmation and description in the light of the knowledge As set out in the “Corporate governance statement”
gathered during the audit, such as through considering the directors’ section, we have nothing material to report, add or
processes to support the statements made, challenging key judgements draw attention to in respect of these matters.
and estimates, consideration of historical forecasting accuracy and
evaluating macro-economic assumptions.
Consider if the statements are aligned with the relevant provisions of the
Code.
Directors’ Remuneration report
Report whether the part of the Directors’ Remuneration report to be audited As set out in the ‘Opinions on other matters prescribed
is properly prepared and the disclosures specified by the Companies Act by the Companies Act 2006’ section, in our opinion,
have been made. the part of the directors’ remuneration report to be
audited has been prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 2006.
Strategic report and directors’ report
Report whether they are consistent with the audited financial statements As set out in the “Opinions on other matters
and are prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements. prescribed by the Companies Act 2006” section, in our
opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course
Report if we have identified any material misstatements in either report in
of the audit, the information in these reports is
the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and of the
consistent with the audited financial statements and
Parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the
has been prepared in accordance with applicable
audit.
legal requirements.
As referenced on page 62, we have provided limited
assurance in accordance with International Standards
for Assurance Engagements 3000 (ISAE 3000) and
Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas
Emissions 3410 (ISAE 3410) issued by the International
Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB)
over selected metrics.
178GSK Annual Report 2022
179
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Independent Auditor’s report continued
Report on the audit of the financial statements continued
Other reporting on other information
Our responsibility Our reporting
Alternative performance measures (APMs)
APMs are measures that are not defined by generally accepted In our opinion:
accounting practice (GAAP) and therefore are not typically included in
– the use, calculation and disclosure of APMs is
the financial statement part of the Annual Report. The Group use APMs,
consistent with the Group’s published definitions
such as adjusted profit, free cash flow and constant currency growth
and policies;
rates in its reporting of financial performance.
– the use of APMs in the Group’s reporting results is
We have reviewed and assessed the calculation and reporting of these
consistent with the guidelines produced by ESMA
metrics to assess consistency with the Group’s published definitions and
and FRC; and
policies for these items.
– there is an appropriate balance between the use of
We have also considered and assessed whether the use of APMs in the
statutory metrics and APMs, together with clear
Group’s reporting results is consistent with the guidelines produced by
definitions and reconciliation for APMs used in
regulators such as the European Securities and Markets Authority
financial reporting.
(ESMA) guidelines on the use of APMs and the FRC Alternative
Performance Measures Thematic Review published in October 2021.
We also considered whether there was an appropriate balance between
the use of statutory metrics and APMs, in addition to whether clear
definitions and reconciliation for APMs used in financial reporting have
been provided.
Dividends and distribution policy
Consider whether the dividends policy is transparent, and the dividends In our opinion the dividends policy is appropriately
paid are consistent with the policy, as outlined in the strategic report on disclosed, and dividends paid are consistent with the
page 80. policy.
8. Responsibilities of directors 9. Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the
As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities financial statements
statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about
the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a whether the financial statements as a whole are free from
true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to
determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable
statements that are free from material misstatement, whether assurance is a high level of assurance but is not a guarantee
due to fraud or error. that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
responsible for assessing the Group’s and the Parent company’s Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered
ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could
matters related to going concern and using the going concern reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of
basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
liquidate the Group or the Parent company or to cease A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the
operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so. financial statements is located on the FRC’s website at: www.
frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of
our auditor’s report.GSK Annual Report 2022
Independent Auditor’s report continued
Report on the audit of the financial statements continued
10. Extent to which the audit was considered Audit response to risks identified
As a result of performing the above, we identified the Valuation
capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud
of US Returns and Rebates accruals as a key audit matter
Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance
related to the potential risk of fraud. The key audit matters
with laws and regulations. We design procedures in line with
section of our report explains the matter in more detail and
our responsibilities, outlined above, to detect material
also describes the specific procedures in response to that key
misstatements in respect of irregularities, including fraud. The
audit matter. In common with all audits under ISAs (UK), we are
extent to which our procedures are capable of detecting
also required to perform specific procedures to respond to the
irregularities, including fraud is detailed below.
risk of management override.
Identifying and assessing potential risks related to In addition to the above, our procedures to respond to risks
irregularities identified included the following:
In identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement
– reviewing the financial statement disclosures and testing to
in respect of irregularities, including fraud and non-compliance
supporting documentation to assess compliance with
with laws and regulations, we considered the following:
provisions of relevant laws and regulations described as
– the nature of the industry and sector, control environment having a direct effect on the financial statements;
and business performance including the design of the
– enquiring of the senior leadership team, the Audit & Risk
Group’s remuneration policies, key drivers for directors’
Committee and in-house and external legal counsel
remuneration, bonus levels and performance targets;
concerning actual and potential litigation and claims;
– results of our enquiries of the senior leadership team, internal
– performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual or
audit and the Audit & Risk Committee, including obtaining
unexpected relationships that may indicate risks of material
and reviewing supporting documentation, concerning the
misstatement due to fraud;
Group’s policies and procedures relating to:
– reading minutes of meetings of those charged with
– identifying, evaluating and complying with laws and
governance, reviewing internal audit reports and
regulations and whether they were aware of any instances
correspondence with regulators; and
of non-compliance;
– in addressing the risk of fraud through management override
– detecting and responding to the risks of fraud and whether
of controls, testing the appropriateness of journal entries and
they have knowledge of any actual, suspected or alleged
other adjustments; assessing whether the judgements made
fraud; and
in making accounting estimates are indicative of a potential
– the internal controls established to mitigate risks related to bias; and evaluating the business rationale of any significant
fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations; and transactions that are unusual or outside the normal course of
business.
– the matters discussed among the engagement team
including significant component audit teams and involving We also communicated relevant identified laws and
relevant internal specialists, including tax, valuations, regulations and potential fraud risks to all engagement team
pensions, IT and industry specialists regarding how and members and significant component audit teams and
where fraud might occur in the financial statements and any remained alert to any indications of fraud or non-compliance
potential indicators of fraud. with laws and regulations throughout the audit.
We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements
frameworks that the Group operates in, focusing on provisions
of those laws and regulations that had a direct effect on the
determination of material amounts and disclosures in the 11. Opinions on other matters prescribed by
financial statements. The key laws and regulations we the Companies Act 2006
considered in this context included the provisions of the UK
In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ Remuneration report to
Companies Act, pensions legislation and tax legislation. We
be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the
have also considered key laws and regulations that had a
Companies Act 2006.
fundamental effect on the operations of the Group, including
the Good Clinical Practice, the FDA regulations, General Data In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of
Protection requirements, Anti-bribery and corruption policy the audit:
and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. – the information given in the strategic report and the
directors’ report for the financial year for which the financial
statements are prepared is consistent with the financial
statements; and
– the strategic report and the directors’ report have been
prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
180GSK Annual Report 2022
181
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Independent Auditor’s report continued
Report on the audit of the financial statements continued
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group Directors’ remuneration
and of the Parent company and their environment obtained in Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report
the course of the audit, we have not identified any material if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration
misstatements in the strategic report or the directors’ report. have not been made or the part of the directors’ remuneration
report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting
12. Corporate governance statement records and returns.
The Listing Rules require us to review the directors’ statement in We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
relation to going concern, longer-term viability and that part of
the corporate governance statement relating to the Group’s
14. Other matters which we are required to address
compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate
Governance Code specified for our review. Auditor tenure
Based on the work undertaken as part of our audit, we have Following the recommendation of the Audit & Risk Committee,
concluded that each of the following elements of the with effect from 1 January 2018 we were appointed by the
Corporate Governance Statement is materially consistent with Board of Directors to audit the financial statements for the
the financial statements and our knowledge obtained during year ended 31 December 2018 and subsequent financial
the audit: periods. The period of total uninterrupted engagement of the
firm is five years.
– the directors’ statement with regards to the appropriateness
of adopting the going concern basis of accounting and any Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to
material uncertainties identified set out on page 167; the Audit & Risk Committee
– the directors’ explanation as to its assessment of the Group’s Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the
prospects, the period this assessment covers and why the Audit & Risk Committee we are required to provide in
period is appropriate is set out on page 64; accordance with ISAs (UK).
– the directors’ statement on fair, balanced and
15. Use of our report
understandable Annual Report set out on page 129;
This report is made solely to the Parent company’s members,
– the board’s confirmation that it has carried out a robust
as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the
assessment of the emerging and principal risks set out on
Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so
pages 51 to 54;
that we might state to the Parent company’s members those
– the section of the Annual Report that describes the review matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report
of effectiveness of risk management and internal control and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law,
systems set out on pages 125 to 126; and we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than
the Parent company and the Parent company’s members as a
– the section describing the work of the audit and risk
body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we
committee set out on page 124 to 129.
have formed.
13. Matters on which we are required to report by In due course, as required by the Financial Conduct Authority
(FCA) Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rule (DTR)
exception
4.1.14R, these financial statements will form part of the
Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records European Single Electronic Format (ESEF)-prepared Annual
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to Financial Report filed on the National Storage Mechanism of
you if, in our opinion: the UK FCA in accordance with the ESEF Regulatory Technical
Standard (ESEF RTS). This auditor’s report provides no
– we have not received all the information and explanations
assurance over whether the annual financial report has been
we require for our audit; or
prepared using the single electronic format specified in the
– adequate accounting records have not been kept by the ESEF RTS.
Parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not
The Parent company has passed a resolution in accordance
been received from branches not visited by us; or
with section 506 of the Companies Act 2006 that the senior
– the Parent company financial statements are not in statutory auditor’s name should not be stated.
agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters. Deloitte LLP
Statutory Auditor
London, United Kingdom
9 March 2023GSK Annual Report 2022
Consolidated income statement
for the year ended 31 December 2022
2022 2021(1) 2020(1)
Notes £m £m £m
Turnover 6 29,324 24,696 24,354
Cost of sales (9,554) (8,163) (7,929)
Gross profit 19,770 16,533 16,425
Selling, general and administration (8,372) (7,070) (7,437)
Research and development (5,488) (5,019) (4,793)
Royalty income 758 417 321
Other operating (expense)/income 7 (235) (504) 1,463
Operating profit 8 6,433 4,357 5,979
Finance income 11 76 14 32
Finance expense 12 (879) (769) (874)
Loss on disposal of interest in associates 13 – (36) –
Share of after tax (loss)/profits of associates and joint ventures (2) 33 33
Profit before taxation 5,628 3,599 5,170
Taxation 14 (707) (83) (67)
Profit after taxation from continuing operations 4,921 3,516 5,103
Profit after taxation from discontinued operations and other gains/(losses) from the demerger 3,049 1,580 1,285
Re-measurement of discontinued operations distributed to shareholders on demerger 7,651 – –
Profit after taxation from discontinued operations 10,700 1,580 1,285
Total profit after taxation for the year 15,621 5,096 6,388
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests from continuing operations 460 200 230
Profit attributable to shareholders from continuing operations 4,461 3,316 4,873
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests from discontinued operations 205 511 409
Profit attributable to shareholders from discontinued operations 10,495 1,069 876
15,621 5,096 6,388
Total profit attributable to non-controlling interests 665 711 639
Total profit attributable to shareholders 14,956 4,385 5,749
15,621 5,096 6,388
Basic earnings per share (pence) from continuing operations 15 110.8p 82.9p 122.4p
Basic earnings per share (pence) from discontinued operations 260.6p 26.7p 22.0p
Total Basic earnings per share (pence) 371.4p 109.6p 144.4p
Diluted earnings per share (pence) from continued operations 15 109.2p 81.8p 120.9p
Diluted earnings per share (pence) from discontinued operations 257.0p 26.4p 21.7p
Total diluted earnings per share (pence) 366.2p 108.2p 142.6p
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
for the year ended 31 December 2022
2022 2021(a) 2020(a)
Notes £m £m £m
Total profit for the year 15,621 5,096 6,388
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to continuing operations income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges 38 113 (339) (416)
Reclassification of exchange movements on liquidation or disposal of overseas subsidiaries and associates 38 2 (25) 36
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges (18) 5 (19)
Reclassification of cash flow hedges to income statement 14 12 54
Deferred tax on fair value movements on cash flow hedges 9 (8) (18)
120 (355) (363)
Items that will not be reclassified to continuing operations income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets of non-controlling interests 38 (28) (20) (10)
Fair value movements on equity investments (754) (911) 1,346
Tax on fair value movements on equity investments 56 131 (220)
Remeasurement (losses)/gains on defined benefit plans (786) 940 (164)
Tax on remeasurement losses/(gains) on defined benefit plans 211 (223) 55
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges (6) – –
(1,307) (83) 1,007
Other comprehensive expense for the year from continuing operations 38 (1,187) (438) 644
Other comprehensive income for the year from discontinued operations 356 101 326
Total comprehensive income for the year 14,790 4,759 7,358
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to:
Shareholders 14,153 4,068 6,753
Non-controlling interests 637 691 605
Total comprehensive income for the year 14,790 4,759 7,358
(1) The 2021 and 2020 comparatives have been restated on a consistent basis from those previously published to reflect the demerger of the Consumer Healthcare business
(see Note 41) and/or the impact of Share Consolidation (see Note 37).
182GSK Annual Report 2022
183
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Consolidated balance sheet
as at 31 December 2022
2022 2021
Notes £m £m
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 17 8,933 9,932
Right of use assets 18 687 740
Goodwill 19 7,046 10,552
Other intangible assets 20 14,318 30,079
Investments in associates and joint ventures 21 74 88
Other investments 23 1,467 2,126
Deferred tax assets 14 5,658 5,218
Derivative financial instruments 44 – 18
Other non-current assets 24 1,194 1,676
Total non-current assets 39,377 60,429
Current assets
Inventories 25 5,146 5,783
Current tax recoverable 14 405 486
Trade and other receivables 26 7,053 7,860
Derivative financial instruments 44 190 188
Current equity investments 22 4,087 –
Liquid investments 30 67 61
Cash and cash equivalents 27 3,723 4,274
Assets held for sale 28 98 22
Total current assets 20,769 18,674
Total assets 60,146 79,103
Current liabilities
Short-term borrowings 30 (3,952) (3,601)
Contingent consideration liabilities 33 (1,289) (958)
Trade and other payables 29 (16,263) (17,554)
Derivative financial instruments 44 (183) (227)
Current tax payable 14 (471) (489)
Short-term provisions 32 (652) (841)
Total current liabilities (22,810) (23,670)
Non-current liabilities
Long-term borrowings 30 (17,035) (20,572)
Corporation tax payable 14 (127) (180)
Deferred tax liabilities 14 (289) (3,556)
Pensions and other post-employment benefits 31 (2,579) (3,113)
Other provisions 32 (532) (630)
Derivative financial instruments 44 – (1)
Contingent consideration liabilities 33 (5,779) (5,118)
Other non-current liabilities 34 (899) (921)
Total non-current liabilities (27,240) (34,091)
Total liabilities (50,050) (57,761)
Net assets 10,096 21,342
Equity
Share capital 37 1,347 1,347
Share premium account 37 3,440 3,301
Retained earnings 38 4,363 7,944
Other reserves 38 1,448 2,463
Shareholders’ equity 10,598 15,055
Non-controlling interests (502) 6,287
Total equity 10,096 21,342
The financial statements on pages 182 to 267 were approved by the Board on 9 March 2023 and signed on its behalf by
Sir Jonathan Symonds
ChairGSK Annual Report 2022
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 December 2022
Shareholders’ equity
Share Share Retained Other Non-controlling Total
capital premium earnings reserves* Total interests equity
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 31 December 2019 1,346 3,174 4,530 2,355 11,405 6,952 18,357
Profit for the year – – 5,749 – 5,749 639 6,388
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year – – (133) 1,137 1,004 (34) 970
Total comprehensive income for the year – – 5,616 1,137 6,753 605 7,358
Distributions to non-controlling interests – – – – – (1,208) (1,208)
Contributions from non-controlling interests – – – – – 3 3
Changes in non-controlling interests – – – – – (131) (131)
Dividends to shareholders – – (3,977) – (3,977) – (3,977)
Realised profits after taxation on disposal of equity
investments – – 163 (163) – – –
Share of associates and joint ventures realised profits
on disposal of equity investments – – 44 (44) – – –
Shares issued – 29 – – 29 – 29
Shares acquired by ESOP Trusts – 78 531 (609) – – –
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts – – (529) 529 – – –
Share-based incentive plans – – 381 – 381 – 381
Tax on share-based incentive plans – – (4) – (4) – (4)
At 31 December 2020 1,346 3,281 6,755 3,205 14,587 6,221 20,808
Profit for the year – – 4,385 – 4,385 711 5,096
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year – – 454 (771) (317) (20) (337)
Total comprehensive income for the year – – 4,839 (771) 4,068 691 4,759
Distributions to non-controlling interests – – – – – (642) (642)
Contributions from non-controlling interests – – – – – 7 7
Dividends to shareholders – – (3,999) – (3,999) – (3,999)
Shares issued 1 20 – – 21 – 21
Realised after tax profits on disposal of equity
investments – – 132 (132) – – –
Share of associates and joint ventures realised profits
on disposal of equity investments – – 7 (7) – – –
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts – – (168) 168 – – –
Share-based incentive plans – – 367 – 367 – 367
Transaction with non-controlling interests – – – – – 10 10
Tax on share-based incentive plans – – 11 – 11 – 11
At 31 December 2021 1,347 3,301 7,944 2,463 15,055 6,287 21,342
Profit for the year – – 14,956 – 14,956 665 15,621
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year – – (89) (714) (803) (28) (831)
Total comprehensive income for the year – – 14,867 (714) 14,153 637 14,790
Distributions to non-controlling interests – – – – – (1,409) (1,409)
Non-cash distribution to non-controlling interests – – – – – (2,960) (2,960)
Contributions from non-controlling interests – – – – – 8 8
Changes to non-controlling interests – – – – – (20) (20)
Deconsolidation of former subsidiaries – – – – – (3,045) (3,045)
Dividends to shareholders – – (3,467) – (3,467) – (3,467)
Non-cash dividend to shareholders – – (15,526) – (15,526) – (15,526)
Realised after tax losses on disposal or liquidation of
equity investments – – 14 (14) – – –
Share of associates and joint ventures realised profits
on disposal of equity investments – – 7 (7) – – –
Shares issued – 25 – – 25 – 25
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts – (911) 911 – – –
Shares acquired by ESOP Trusts – 114 1,086 (1,200) – – –
Share-based incentive plans – – 357 – 357 – 357
Tax on share-based incentive plans – – (8) – (8) – (8)
Hedging gain after taxation transferred to
non-financial assets – – – 9 9 – 9
At 31 December 2022 1,347 3,440 4,363 1,448 10,598 (502) 10,096
* an analysis of Other reserves is presented as part of Note 38, ‘Movements in equity’.
184GSK Annual Report 2022
185
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Consolidated cash flow statement
for the year ended 31 December 2022
2022 2021(1) 2020(1)
Notes £m £m £m
Cash flow from operating activities
Profit after taxation from continuing operations for the year 4,921 3,516 5,103
Adjustments reconciling profit after tax to operating cash flows 42 3,023 3733 2,571
Cash generated from operations attributable to continuing operations 7,944 7,249 7,674
Taxation paid (1,310) (972) (1,086)
Net cash inflow from continuing operating activities 6,634 6,277 6,588
Cash generated from operations attributable to discontinued operations 932 1,994 2,422
Taxation paid from discontinued operations (163) (319) (569)
Net operating cash flows attributable to discontinued operations 769 1,675 1,853
Total net cash inflows from operating activities 7,403 7,952 8,441
Cash flow from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (1,143) (950) (989)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 146 132 49
Purchase of intangible assets (1,115) (1,704) (956)
Proceeds from sale of intangible assets 196 641 343
Purchase of equity investments (143) (162) (411)
Purchase of businesses, net of cash acquired 41 (3,108) – –
Proceeds from sale of equity investments 238 202 3,269
Contingent consideration paid (79) (114) (120)
Disposal of businesses 41 (43) (17) 117
Investments in associates and joint ventures 41 (1) (1) (4)
Proceeds from disposal of associates and joint ventures – 277 –
Interest received 64 14 27
Decrease/(increase) in liquid investments 1 18 (1)
Dividends from associates and joint ventures 6 9 31
Net cash outflow from continuing investing activities (4,981) (1,655) 1,355
Net cash investing cash flows attributable to discontinued operations (3,791) (122) 806
Total net cash (outflow)/inflow from investing activities (8,772) (1,777) 2,161
Cash flow from financing activities
Issue of share capital 37 25 21 29
Repayment of long-term loans (1,594) – –
Issue of long-term notes 1,025 _ 3,298
Repayment of short-term loans (5,074) (2,304) (3,738)
Increase in/(repayment of) other short-term loans 1,021 301 (3,594)
Repayment of lease liabilities (202) (181) (182)
Interest paid (848) (772) (851)
Dividends paid to shareholders (3,467) (3,999) (3,977)
Distributions to non-controlling interests (521) (239) (442)
Contributions from non-controlling interests 8 7 3
Other financing items 376 40 (89)
Net cash outflow from continuing financing activities (9,251) (7,126) (9,543)
Net financing cash flows attributable to discontinued operations 10,074 (463) (589)
Total net cash inflow/(outflow) from financing activities 823 (7,589) (10,132)
(Increase)/decrease in cash and bank overdrafts 43 (546) (1,414) 470
Cash and bank overdrafts at the beginning of year 3,819 5,262 4,831
Exchange adjustments 152 (29) (39)
Increase/(Decrease) in cash and bank overdrafts in the year (546) (1,414) 470
Cash and bank overdrafts at the end of year 3,425 3,819 5,262
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year comprise:
Cash and cash equivalents 3,723 4,274 6,292
Overdrafts (298) (455) (1,030)
3,425 3,819 5,262
(1) The 2021 and 2020 comparative results have been restated on a consistent basis from those previously published to reflect the demerger of the Consumer Healthcare business
(see Note 41).
.GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements
1. Presentation of the financial statements
Description of business Financial period
GSK is a global biopharma group which makes innovative These financial statements cover the financial year from
vaccines and specialty medicines to prevent and treat disease. 1 January to 31 December 2022, with comparative figures for
GSK’s R&D focuses on the science of the immune system, the financial years from 1 January to 31 December 2021 and,
human genetics and advanced technologies primarily in the where appropriate, from 1 January to 31 December 2020.
following four therapeutic areas: infectious diseases, HIV, Income statement and cash flow comparatives have been
oncology and immunology/respiratory. restated on a consistent basis from those previously published
to reflect the classification of the Consumer Healthcare
Compliance with applicable law and IFRS
business as a discontinued operation (see Note 41).
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance
with international accounting standards in conformity with the Accounting principles and policies
requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and the International The financial statements have been prepared using the
Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the IASB. historical cost convention modified by the revaluation of
certain items, as stated in the accounting policies, and on a
Composition of financial statements
going concern basis.
The consolidated financial statements are drawn up in Sterling,
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance
the functional currency of GSK plc, and in accordance with
with the Group’s accounting policies approved by the Board
IFRS accounting presentation. The financial statements
and described in Note 2, ‘Accounting principles and policies’.
comprise:
Information on the application of these accounting policies,
– Consolidated income statement including areas of estimation and judgement is given in Note 3,
‘Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation
– Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
uncertainty’.
– Consolidated balance sheet
The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with
– Consolidated statement of changes in equity generally accepted accounting principles requires management
– Consolidated cash flow statement to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported
amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent
– Notes to the financial statements.
assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and
Composition of the Group the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the
reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
A list of the subsidiaries and associates which, in the opinion
of the Directors, principally affected the amount of profit or net Parent company financial statements
assets of the Group is given in Note 46, ‘Principal Group
The financial statements of the parent company, GSK plc, have
companies’.
been prepared in accordance with UK GAAP and with UK
accounting presentation. The company balance sheet is
presented on page 268 and the accounting policies are given
on pages 269 to 272.
2. Accounting principles and policies
Consolidation Where the Group has the ability to exercise joint control over,
and rights to, the net assets of entities, the entities are
The consolidated financial statements include:
accounted for as joint ventures. Where the Group has the
– the assets and liabilities, and the results and cash flows, of
ability to exercise joint control over an arrangement, but has
the company and its subsidiaries, including ESOP Trusts
rights to specified assets and obligations for specified liabilities
– the Group’s share of the results and net assets of associates of the arrangement, the arrangement is accounted for as a
and joint ventures joint operation. Where the Group has the ability to exercise
significant influence over entities, they are accounted for as
– the Group’s share of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses
associates. The results and assets and liabilities of associates
of joint operations.
and joint ventures are incorporated into the consolidated
The financial statements of entities consolidated are made up financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
to 31 December each year. The assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses of joint operations
Entities over which the Group has the power to direct the are included in the consolidated financial statements in
relevant activities so as to affect the returns to the Group, accordance with the Group’s rights and obligations.
generally through control over the financial and operating Interests acquired in entities are consolidated from the date
policies, are accounted for as subsidiaries. the Group acquires control and interests sold are de-
consolidated from the date control ceases.
186GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
187
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
2. Accounting principles and policies continued
Transactions and balances between subsidiaries are eliminated Exchange adjustments arising when the opening net assets
and no profit before tax is taken on sales between subsidiaries and the profits for the year retained by overseas subsidiaries,
until the products are sold to customers outside the Group. The associates and joint ventures are translated into Sterling, less
relevant proportion of profits on transactions with joint ventures, exchange differences arising on related foreign currency
joint operations and associates is also deferred until the borrowings which hedge the Group’s net investment in these
products are sold to third parties. Transactions with non- operations, are taken to a separate component of equity within
controlling interests are recorded directly in equity. Deferred tax Retained Earnings.
relief on unrealised intra-Group profit is accounted for only to
When translating into Sterling the assets, liabilities, results
the extent that it is considered recoverable.
and cash flows of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint
ventures which are reported in currencies of hyper-inflationary
Business combinations
economies, adjustments are made where material to reflect
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition
current price levels. Any loss on net monetary assets is charged
accounting method. Identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent
to the consolidated income statement.
liabilities acquired are measured at fair value at acquisition date.
The consideration transferred is measured at fair value and Revenue
includes the fair value of any contingent consideration.
Turnover
The fair value of contingent consideration liabilities is The Group receives revenue for supply of goods to external
reassessed at each balance sheet date with changes
customers against orders received. The majority of contracts
recognised in the income statement. Payments of contingent
that GSK enters into relate to sales orders containing single
consideration reduce the balance sheet liability and as a result
performance obligations for the delivery of pharmaceutical,
are not recorded in the income statement.
vaccine and (prior to the demerger of the Consumer Healthcare
The part of each payment relating to the original estimate of the business) consumer healthcare products. The average duration of
fair value of the contingent consideration on acquisition is reported a sales order is less than 12 months.
within investing activities in the cash flow statement and the part of
Product revenue is recognised when control of the goods is
each payment relating to the increase in the liability since the
passed to the customer. The point at which control passes is
acquisition date is reported within operating cash flows.
determined by each customer arrangement, but generally occurs
Where the consideration transferred, together with the non- on delivery to the customer.
controlling interest, exceeds the fair value of the net assets,
Product revenue represents net invoice value including fixed and
liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired, the excess is
variable consideration. Variable consideration arises on the sale of
recorded as goodwill. The costs of effecting an acquisition
goods as a result of discounts and allowances given and accruals
are charged to the income statement in the period in which
for estimated future returns and rebates. Revenue is not recognised
they are incurred.
in full until it is highly probable that a significant reversal in the
Goodwill is capitalised as a separate item in the case of amount of cumulative revenue recognised will not occur.
subsidiaries and as part of the cost of investment in the case The methodology and assumptions used to estimate rebates
of joint ventures and associates. Goodwill is denominated in and returns are monitored and adjusted regularly in the light of
the currency of the operation acquired. contractual and legal obligations, historical trends, past experience
and projected market conditions. Estimates associated with returns
Where the cost of acquisition is below the Group’s interest in
and rebates are revisited at each reporting date or when
the net assets acquired, the difference is recognised directly in
they are resolved and revenue is adjusted accordingly. Please refer
the income statement.
to Note 3 for the details on rebates, discounts and allowances.
Where not all of the equity of a subsidiary is acquired the non-
The Group has entered into collaborative agreements, typically with
controlling interest is recognised either at fair value or at the
other pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies to develop,
non-controlling interest’s share of the net assets of the subsidiary,
produce and market drug candidates and vaccines that do not
on a case-by-case basis. Changes in the Group’s ownership
qualify as joint arrangements. When GSK has control over the
percentage of subsidiaries are accounted for within equity.
commercialisation activities, the Group recognises turnover and cost
Foreign currency translation of sales on a gross basis. Profit sharing amounts and royalties due to
the counterparty are recorded within cost of sales. Cost of sales
Foreign currency transactions are booked in the functional
includes profit sharing costs and royalties due to the counterparty of
currency of the Group company at the exchange rate ruling
£1,635 million (2021: £640 million; 2020: £4 million). When the
on the date of transaction. Foreign currency monetary assets
counterparty controls the commercialisation activities and records
and liabilities are retranslated into the functional currency at
the sale, the Group is not deemed principal in the customer contract
rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. Exchange
and instead records its share of gross profit as co-promotion
differences are included in the income statement.
income, on a net basis, within turnover. The nature of co-promotion
On consolidation, assets and liabilities, including related activities is such that the Group records no costs of sales.
goodwill, of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, Commercial Operations turnover includes co-promotion revenue of
are translated into Sterling at rates of exchange £3 million (2021: £7 million; 2020: £12 million). Reimbursements to
ruling at the balance sheet date. The results and cash flows and from the counterparty under collaboration agreements for
of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures are ‘selling, general and administration’ and ‘research and development’
translated into Sterling using average rates of exchange. costs are recorded net in the respective lines in the Consolidated
income statement.GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
2. Accounting principles and policies continued
Other operating income and royalty income This liability includes the Group’s portion of the total costs and
GSK enters into development and marketing collaborations also a portion of other potentially responsible parties’ costs
and out-licences of the Group’s compounds or products to when it is probable that they will not be able to satisfy their
other parties. These contracts give rise to fixed and variable respective shares of the clean-up obligation. Recoveries of
consideration from upfront payments, development milestones, reimbursements are recorded as assets when virtually certain.
sales-based milestones and royalties.
Legal and other disputes
Income dependent on the achievement of a development
Provision is made for the anticipated settlement costs of legal
milestone is recognised when it is highly probable that a significant
or other disputes against the Group where an outflow of
reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue recognised will not
resources is considered probable and a reliable estimate can
occur, which is usually when the related event occurs. Sales-based
be made of the likely outcome. In respect of product liability
milestone income is recognised when it is highly probable that the
claims related to certain products, provision is made when
sales threshold will be reached.
there is sufficient history of claims made and settlements to
Sales-based royalties on a licence of intellectual property are enable management to make a reliable estimate of the
not recognised until the relevant product sale occurs. provision required to cover asserted and unasserted claims.
For all revenue, if the time between the recognition of revenue In certain cases, an incurred but not reported (IBNR) actuarial
and payment from the customer is expected to be more than technique is used to determine this estimate. In addition,
one year and the impact is material, the amount of provision is made for legal or other expenses arising from
consideration is discounted using appropriate discount rates. claims received or other disputes.
Value added tax and other sales taxes are excluded from revenue. The Group may become involved in legal proceedings, in
respect of which it is not possible to meaningfully assess
Expenditure
whether the outcome will result in a probable outflow, or to
Expenditure is recognised in respect of goods and services quantify or reliably estimate the liability. In these cases,
received when supplied in accordance with contractual terms. appropriate disclosure about such cases is included but no
Provision is made when an obligation exists for a future liability provision is made.
in respect of a past event and where the amount of the
Costs associated with claims made by the Group against third
obligation can be reliably estimated. Manufacturing start-up
parties are charged to the income statement as they are incurred.
costs between validation and the achievement of normal
production are expensed as incurred.
Pensions and other post-employment benefits
Advertising and promotion expenditure is charged to the The costs of providing pensions under defined benefit schemes are
income statement as incurred. calculated using the projected unit credit method and spread over
Shipment costs on inter-company transfers are charged to cost the period during which benefit is expected to be derived from the
of sales; distribution costs on sales to customers are included in employees’ services, consistent with the advice of qualified
selling, general and administration expenditure. actuaries.
Restructuring costs are recognised and provided for, where Pension obligations are measured as the present value of estimated
appropriate, in respect of the direct expenditure of a business future cash flows discounted at rates reflecting the yields of
reorganisation where the plans are sufficiently detailed and high-quality corporate bonds. Pension scheme assets are
well advanced, and where appropriate communication to measured at fair value at the balance sheet date.
those affected has been undertaken. The costs of other post-employment liabilities are calculated in
Software as a service (SaaS) configuration costs are expensed a similar way to defined benefit pension schemes and spread
as they are incurred where the software being configured is over the period during which benefit is expected to be derived
controlled by the SaaS provider. from the employees’ services, in accordance with the advice of
qualified actuaries.
Research and development
The service cost of providing retirement benefits to employees
Research and development expenditure is charged to the during the year, together with the cost of any curtailment, is
income statement in the period in which it is incurred. charged to operating profit in the year.
Development expenditure is capitalised when the criteria for
Actuarial gains and losses and the effect of changes in
recognising an asset are met, usually when a regulatory filing
actuarial assumptions are recognised in the statement of
has been made in a major market and approval is considered
comprehensive income in the year in which they arise.
highly probable. Property, plant and equipment used for
research and development is capitalised and depreciated The Group’s contributions to defined contribution plans are
in accordance with the Group’s policy. charged to the income statement as incurred.
Environmental expenditure
Environmental expenditure related to existing conditions
resulting from past or current operations and from which no
current or future benefit is discernible is charged to the income
statement. The Group recognises its liability on a site-by-site
basis when it can be reliably estimated.
188GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
189
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
2. Accounting principles and policies continued
Employee share plans Finance costs are charged to the income statement so as to
produce a constant periodic rate of charge on the remaining
Incentives in the form of shares are provided to employees
balance of the obligations for each accounting period.
under share option and share award schemes.
Variable rents are not part of the lease liability and the right of use
The fair values of these options and awards are calculated at their
asset. These payments are charged to the income statement as
grant dates using a Black-Scholes option pricing model and
incurred. Lease rental costs for short-term and low-value leases
charged to the income statement over the relevant vesting periods.
which are not capitalised are also charged to the income statement
The Group provides finance to ESOP Trusts to purchase company as incurred.
shares to meet the obligation to provide shares when employees
Non-lease components are accounted for separately from the
exercise their options or awards. Costs of running the ESOP Trusts
lease components in plant and equipment leases but are not
are charged to the income statement.
separately accounted for in land and buildings or vehicle
Shares held by the ESOP Trusts are deducted from other reserves. leases.
A transfer is made between other reserves and retained earnings
If modifications or reassessments of lease obligations occur,
over the vesting periods of the related share options or awards to
the lease liability and right of use asset are remeasured.
reflect the ultimate proceeds receivable from employees on
exercise. Right of use assets where title is expected to pass to GSK at
a point in the future are depreciated on a basis consistent with
Property, plant and equipment
similar owned assets. In other cases, right of use assets are
Property, plant and equipment (PP&E) is stated at the cost of depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset or
purchase or construction, less provisions for depreciation and the lease term.
impairment. Financing costs are capitalised within the cost of
qualifying assets in construction. Goodwill
Goodwill is stated at cost less impairments. Goodwill is
Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost less residual
deemed to have an indefinite useful life and is tested for
value of PP&E, excluding freehold land, using the straight-line
impairment at least annually.
basis over the expected useful life. Residual values and lives
are reviewed, and where appropriate adjusted annually. The Where the fair value of the interest acquired in an entity’s
normal expected useful lives of the major categories of PP&E assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the
are: consideration paid, this excess is recognised immediately
as a gain in the income statement.
Freehold buildings 20 to 50 years
Leasehold land and buildings Lease term or 20 to 50 years Other intangible assets
Plant and machinery 10 to 20 years Intangible assets are stated at cost less provisions for
Equipment and vehicles 3 to 10 years amortisation and impairments.
On disposal of PP&E, the cost and related accumulated Licences, patents, know-how and marketing rights separately
depreciation and impairments are removed from the financial acquired or acquired as part of a business combination are
statements and the net amount, less any proceeds, is taken amortised over their estimated useful lives, generally not
to the income statement. exceeding 30 years, using the straight-line basis, from the
time they are available for use. The estimated useful lives for
Leases
determining the amortisation charge take into account patent
The Group recognises right of use assets under lease lives (exclusivity period), where applicable, as well as the value
arrangements in which it is the lessee, except for short-term obtained from periods of non-exclusivity. For Pharmaceutical
leases (defined as leases with a lease term of 12 months or less) intangible assets, depending on the characteristics,
and leases of low value assets. Rights to use assets owned by competitive environment and estimated long-term profits of
third parties under lease agreements are capitalised at the the asset, between 80% to 90% of the book value is amortised
inception of the lease and recognised on the consolidated over the exclusivity period on a straight-line basis and the
balance sheet. remaining book value is amortised over a non-exclusivity
period of 5-15 years on a straight-line basis. For Vaccines
The corresponding liability to the lessor is recognised as a
intangible assets, cost is usually amortised over the exclusivity
lease obligation within short and long-term borrowings. The
period plus 10 years, or 30 years if no exclusivity period is carrying amount is subsequently increased to reflect interest
granted, on a straight-line basis. Asset lives are reviewed, and
on the lease liability and reduced by lease payments made.
where appropriate adjusted, annually.
For calculating the discounted lease liability on leases with annual
Contingent milestone payments are recognised at the point
payments of £2 million or more, the implicit rate in the lease is
that the contingent event becomes probable. Any
used. If this is not available, the incremental borrowing rate with a
development costs incurred by the Group and associated with
lease specific adjustment is used. If neither of these is available,
acquired licences, patents, know-how or marketing rights are
and for leases with annual payments of less than £2 million, the
written off to the income statement when incurred, unless the
incremental borrowing rate is used. The incremental borrowing
criteria for recognition of an internally generated intangible
rate is calculated at the rate of interest at which GSK would have
asset are met, usually when a regulatory filing has been made
been able to borrow for a similar term and with a similar security
in a major market and approval is considered highly probable.
the funds necessary to obtain a similar asset in a similar market.GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
2. Accounting principles and policies continued
Acquired in process R&D and marketed products are valued Financial instruments
independently as part of the fair value of businesses acquired from
third parties where they have a value which is substantial and long Financial assets
term and where the brands either are contractual or legal in Financial assets are measured at amortised cost, fair value
nature or can be sold separately from the rest of the businesses through other comprehensive income (FVTOCI) or fair value
acquired. through profit or loss (FVTPL). The measurement basis is
determined by reference to both the business model for
The costs of acquiring and developing computer software for
managing the financial asset and the contractual cash flow
internal use and internet sites for external use are capitalised
characteristics of the financial asset. For financial assets
as intangible fixed assets where the software or site supports a
other than trade receivables a 12-month expected credit loss
significant business system and the expenditure leads to the
(ECL) allowance is recorded on initial recognition. If there is
creation of a durable asset controlled by the Group. ERP
subsequent evidence of a significant increase in the credit risk
systems software is amortised over seven to ten years and
of an asset, the allowance is increased to reflect the full lifetime
other computer software over three to five years using the
ECL. If there is no realistic prospect of recovery, the asset is
straight-line basis.
written off.
Impairment of non-current assets Expected credit losses are recognised in the income statement
The carrying values of all non-current assets are reviewed for on financial assets measured at amortised cost and at fair
impairment, either on a stand-alone basis or as part of a larger value through other comprehensive income apart from equity
cash generating unit, when there is an indication that the investments.
assets might be impaired. Additionally, goodwill and intangible
Current equity investments
assets which are not yet available for use are tested for
Current equity investments comprise equity investments which
impairment annually. Any provision for impairment is charged
the Group holds with the intention to sell and which it may sell
to the income statement in the year concerned.
in the short term. Where acquired with this intention, they are
Impairments of goodwill are not reversed. Impairment losses on measured at FVTPL. They are initially recorded at fair value
other non-current assets are only reversed if there has been a and then remeasured at subsequent reporting dates to fair
change in estimates used to determine recoverable amounts value. Unrealised gains and losses are recognised in the
and only to the extent that the revised recoverable amounts do income statement. Dividend income is recognised in the
not exceed the carrying values that would have existed, net of income statement when the Group’s right to receive payment is
depreciation or amortisation, had no impairments been established. Purchases and sales of Current equity investments
recognised. are accounted for on the trade date.
Investments in associates, joint ventures and joint Other investments
operations Other investments comprise equity investments and
Investments in associates and joint ventures are carried in the investments in limited life funds. The Group has elected to
consolidated balance sheet at the Group’s share of their net designate the majority of its equity investments as measured
assets at date of acquisition and of their post-acquisition at FVTOCI. They are initially recorded at fair value plus
retained profits or losses and other comprehensive income transaction costs and then remeasured at subsequent
together with any goodwill arising on the acquisition. The reporting dates to fair value. Unrealised gains and losses are
Group recognises the assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses recognised in other comprehensive income. On disposal of the
of joint operations in accordance with its rights and equity investment, gains and losses that have been deferred in
obligations. other comprehensive income are transferred directly to
retained earnings.
Inventories
Investments in limited life funds are measured at FVTPL. They
Inventories are included in the financial statements at the are initially recorded at fair value and then remeasured at
lower of cost (including raw materials, direct labour, other subsequent reporting dates to fair value. Unrealised gains and
direct costs and related production overheads) and net losses are recognised in the income statement.
realisable value. Cost is generally determined on a first in, first
Dividends on equity investments and distributions from funds
out basis. Pre-launch inventory is held as an asset when there
are recognised in the income statement when the Group’s right
is a high probability of regulatory approval for the product.
to receive payment is established.
Before that point a provision is made against the carrying
value to reduce it to its recoverable amount; the provision is Purchases and sales of Other investments are accounted for
then reversed at the point when a high probability of on the trade date.
regulatory approval is determined.
190GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
191
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
2. Accounting principles and policies continued
Trade receivables Hedge accounting
Trade receivables are measured in accordance with the business Derivatives designated as hedging instruments are classified
model under which each portfolio of trade receivables is held. The at inception of hedge relationship as cash flow hedges, net
Group has portfolios in each of the three business models under investment hedges or fair value hedges.
IFRS 9: to collect the contractual cash flows where there is no
Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash
factoring agreement in place (measured at amortised cost), to
flow hedges are recognised in other comprehensive income to
sell the contractual cash flows where the trade receivables will be the extent that the hedges are effective and accumulated in
sold under a factoring agreement (measured at FVTPL), and both
the cash flow hedge reserve. Ineffective portions are
to collect and to sell the contractual cash flows where the trade
recognised in profit or loss immediately. Amounts deferred in
receivables may be sold under a factoring arrangement
the cash flow hedge reserve are reclassified to the income
(measured at FVTOCI). Trade receivables measured at amortised
statement when the hedged item affects profit or loss, or if the
cost are carried at the original invoice amount less allowances for
hedged forecast transaction is to purchase a non-financial
expected credit losses.
asset, the amount deferred in the cash flow hedge reserve is
Expected credit losses are calculated in accordance with the transferred directly from equity and included in the carrying
simplified approach permitted by IFRS 9, using a provision matrix value of the recognised non-financial asset.
applying lifetime historical credit loss experience to the trade
Net investment hedges are accounted for in a similar way to
receivables. The expected credit loss rate varies depending
cash flow hedges which are reclassified to the income
on whether, and the extent to which, settlement of the trade
statement when the hedged item affects profit or loss.
receivables is overdue and it is also adjusted as appropriate to
reflect current economic conditions and estimates of future Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as fair
conditions. For the purpose of determining credit loss rates, value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together
customers are classified into groupings that have similar loss with the changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or
patterns. The key drivers of the loss rate are the nature of the liability.
business unit and the location and type of customer.
Taxation
When a trade receivable is determined to have no reasonable
Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid,
expectation of recovery it is written off, firstly against any
applying tax rates that have been enacted or substantively
expected credit loss allowance available and then to the
enacted by the balance sheet date. The tax charge for the
income statement.
period is recognised in the income statement, the statement of
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously provided for or comprehensive income or directly in equity, according to the
written off are credited to the income statement. Long-term accounting treatment of the related transaction.
receivables are discounted where the effect is material.
Deferred tax is provided in full on temporary differences arising
between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their
Cash and cash equivalents
carrying amounts in the financial statements. Deferred tax
Cash held in deposit accounts is measured at amortised cost.
assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that
Investments in money market funds are held at fair value
future taxable profits will be available against which the
through profit or loss because the funds fail the solely
temporary differences can be utilised. Deferred tax is provided
payments of principal and interest (SPPI) test.
on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries,
Borrowings associates and joint ventures, except where the timing of the
All borrowings are initially recorded at the amount of proceeds reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled and it is
received, net of transaction costs. Borrowings are subsequently probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the
carried at amortised cost, with the difference between the foreseeable future. Deferred tax is provided using rates of tax
proceeds, net of transaction costs, and the amount due on that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the
redemption being recognised as a charge to the income balance sheet date. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are
statement over the period of the relevant borrowing. offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current
tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to
Derivative financial instruments income taxes levied by the same tax authority and the
Derivative financial instruments are used to manage exposure Company and its subsidiaries intend to settle their current tax
to market risks. The principal derivative instruments used by assets and liabilities on a net basis.
GSK are foreign currency swaps, interest rate swaps, foreign
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised if the
exchange forward contracts and options. The Group does not
temporary differences arise from the initial recognition of
hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or
goodwill or from the initial recognition of other assets and
speculative purposes.
liabilities in a transaction (other than a business combination)
Derivative financial assets and liabilities, including derivatives that affects neither the accounting nor the taxable profit or
embedded in host contracts which have been separated from loss. Unrecognised deferred tax assets are reassessed at each
the host contract, are classified as held-for-trading and are reporting date and are recognised to the extent that it has
measured at fair value. Changes in the fair value of any become probable that future taxable profits will allow the
derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge deferred tax asset to be recovered.
accounting are recognised immediately in the income
statement.GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
2. Accounting principles and policies continued
Where an uncertain tax position is identified, management will Assets and liabilities held for sale or distribution
make a judgement as to what the probable outcome will be,
and discontinued operations
assuming the relevant tax authority has full knowledge of the
Disposal groups are classified as held for sale or distribution if
situation. Where it is assessed that an economic outflow is
their carrying amount will be recovered principally through sale
probable to arise, a provision is made for the best estimate of
or a distribution to shareholders rather than through continuing
the liability. In estimating any such liability GSK applies a
use, they are available for sale or distribution in their present
risk-based approach which takes into account, as appropriate,
condition and the sale or distribution is considered highly
the probability that the Group would be able to obtain
probable. Assets held in Assets held for sale or distribution are
compensatory adjustments under international tax treaties.
measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value
These estimates take into account the specific circumstances
less costs to sell or distribute. Non-current assets included in
of each dispute and relevant external advice.
Assets held for sale or distribution are not depreciated or
Discounting amortised. Assets and liabilities classified as held for sale or
distribution are presented in current assets and current
Where the time value of money is material, balances are
liabilities separately from the other assets and liabilities in the
discounted to current values using appropriate discount rates.
balance sheet.
The unwinding of the discounts is recorded in finance income
and finance expense. A discontinued operation is a component of the Group that
has been disposed of, distributed or is classified as held for sale
or distribution and that represents a separate major line of
business. The results of discontinued operations are presented
separately in the Consolidated income statement, the
Consolidated statement of other comprehensive income and
the Consolidated statement of cash flows and comparatives
are restated on a consistent basis.
3. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of
estimation uncertainty
In preparing the financial statements, management is required Sales of pharmaceutical and vaccine products in the US have
to make judgements about when or how items should be complex arrangements for rebates, discounts and allowances.
recognised in the financial statements and estimates and Turnover of Commercial Operations products in the US for
assumptions that affect the amounts of assets, liabilities, 2022 of £14,542 million (2021: £11,914 million) was after
revenue and expenses reported in the financial statements. recording deductions of £15,272 million (2021: £12,518 million)
Actual amounts and results could differ from those estimates. for rebates, allowances, returns and other discounts. At 31
The following are considered to be the critical accounting December 2022, the total accrual amounted to £5,855 million
judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty. (2021: £5,044 million). Due to the nature of these accruals it is
not practicable to give meaningful sensitivity estimates due to
Turnover
the large volume of variables that contribute to the overall
Reported Group turnover for 2022 was £29,324 million (2021(1): rebates, chargebacks, returns and other revenue accruals.
£24,696 million).
As there can be significant variability in final outcomes, the
Group applies a constraint when measuring the variable
Estimates
element within revenue, so that revenue is recognised at a
Gross turnover is reduced by rebates, discounts, allowances
suitably cautious amount. The objective of the constraint is to
and product returns given or expected to be given, which
ensure that it is highly probable that a significant reversal of
vary by product arrangements and buying groups. These
revenue will not occur when the uncertainties are resolved.
arrangements with purchasing organisations are dependent
The constraint is applied by making suitably cautious
upon the submission of claims some time after the initial
estimates of the inputs and assumptions used in estimating
recognition of the sale. Accruals are made at the time of sale
the variable consideration. Because the amounts are
for the estimated rebates, discounts or allowances payable or
estimated they may not fully reflect the final outcome, and
returns to be made, based on available market information
the amounts are subject to change dependent upon, amongst
and historical experience.
other things, the types of buying group and product sales mix.
The constraints applied in recognising revenue mean that the
risk of a material downward adjustment to revenue in the next
(1) T he 2021 comparative results have been restated on a consistent basis financial year is low.
from those previously published to reflect the demerger of the Consumer
Healthcare business (see page 238).
192GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
193
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
3. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty continued
The level of accrual for rebates and returns is reviewed and Legal and other disputes
adjusted regularly in the light of contractual and legal
Legal costs for the year were £144 million (2021(1): £50 million).
obligations, historical trends, past experience and projected
At 31 December 2022 provisions for legal and other disputes
market conditions. Market conditions are evaluated using amounted to £218 million (2021: £196 million).
wholesaler and other third-party analyses, market research
data and internally generated information. It is reasonably Estimates
possible that there could be a significant adjustment within the Management makes a judgement of whether there is sufficient
next 12 months to recognise additional revenue, if actual information to be able to make a reliable estimate of the likely
outcomes are better than the cautious constrained estimates. outcome of the dispute and the legal and other expenses
Revenue is not recognised in full until it is highly probable that a arising from claims against the Group. If insufficient information
significant reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue is available, no provision is made and disclosure of the claim is
recognised will not occur. The amount of turnover recognised in given.
the year from performance obligations satisfied in previous The estimated provisions take into account the specific
periods is set out in Note 6, ‘Turnover and segment information’, circumstances of each dispute and relevant external advice,
and is an indication of the level of sensitivity in the estimate. are inherently judgemental and could change substantially
Future events could cause the assumptions on which the over time as each dispute progresses and new facts emerge.
accruals are based to change, which could materially affect Details of the status and various uncertainties involved in the
the future results of the Group. significant unresolved disputes are set out in Note 47, ‘Legal
proceedings’.
Taxation
The company’s Directors, having taken legal advice, have
The tax charge for the year was £707 million (2021(1): £83 established provisions after taking into account the relevant
million). At December 2022, current tax payable was £471 facts and circumstances of each matter and in accordance with
million (2021: £489 million), non-current corporation tax accounting requirements. In respect of product liability claims
payable was £127 million (2021: £180 million) and current tax related to certain products, there is sufficient history of claims
recoverable was £405 million (2021: £486 million). made and settlements to enable management to make a reliable
estimate of the provision required to cover unasserted claims.
Estimates
The Group has open tax issues with a number of revenue The Group may become involved in legal proceedings, in respect
authorities. Management makes a judgement of whether there of which it is not possible to meaningfully assess whether the
is sufficient information to be able to make a reliable estimate outcome will result in a probable outflow, or to quantify or reliably
of the outcome of the dispute. If insufficient information is estimate the liability. In these cases, appropriate disclosure about
available, no provision is made. such cases would be provided, but no provision would be made
and no contingent liability can be quantified.
If sufficient information is available, in estimating a potential
tax liability GSK applies a risk-based approach which takes into The ultimate liability for legal claims may vary from the amounts
account, as appropriate, the probability that the Group would provided and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation
be able to obtain compensatory adjustments under proceedings, investigations and possible settlement negotiations.
international tax treaties. These estimates take into account The position could change over time and, therefore, there can be
the specific circumstances of each dispute and relevant no assurance that any losses that result from the outcome of any
external advice, are inherently judgemental and could change legal proceedings will not exceed the amount of the provisions
substantially over time as each dispute progresses and new reported in the Group’s financial statements by a material amount.
facts emerge.
Contingent consideration
At 31 December 2022, the Group had recognised provisions
The 2022 income statement charge for contingent
of £551 million in respect of uncertain tax positions (2021: £858
consideration was £1,645 million (2021: £1,063 million).
million). Due to the number of uncertain tax positions held and
the number of jurisdictions to which these relate, it is not At 31 December 2022, the liability for contingent consideration
practicable to give meaningful sensitivity estimates. No amounted to £7,068 million (2021: £6,076 million). Of this
uncertain tax position is individually significant to the Group. amount, £5,890 million (2021: £5,559 million) related to the
acquisition of the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture
Factors affecting the tax charge in future years are set out in
in 2012.
Note 14, ‘Taxation’. GSK continues to believe that it has made
adequate provision for the liabilities likely to arise from open Estimates
assessments. Where open issues exist, the ultimate liability Any contingent consideration included in the consideration
for such matters may vary from the amounts provided and is payable for a business combination is recorded at fair value at
dependent upon the outcome of negotiations with the relevant the date of acquisition. These fair values are generally based
tax authorities or, if necessary, litigation proceedings. on risk-adjusted future cash flows discounted using
appropriate post-tax discount rates. The fair values are
reviewed on a regular basis, at least annually, and any changes
(1) T he 2021 comparative results have been restated on a consistent basis are reflected in the income statement. See Note 33, ‘Contingent
from those previously published to reflect the demerger of the Consumer
consideration liabilities’.
Healthcare business (see page 238).GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
3. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty continued
Pensions and other post-employment benefits Discount rates are derived from AA rated corporate bond yields
except in countries where there is no deep market in corporate
Judgement bonds where government bond yields are used. A sensitivity
Where a surplus on a defined benefit scheme arises, or there is analysis is provided in Note 31, ‘Pensions and other post-
potential for a surplus to arise from committed future employment benefits’, a 0.25% reduction in the discount rate
contributions, the rights of the Trustees to prevent the Group would lead to an increase in the net pension deficit of
obtaining a refund of that surplus in the future are considered in approximately £424 million and an increase in the annual pension
determining whether it is necessary to restrict the amount of the cost of approximately £19 million. Similarly, a 0.25% increase in the
surplus that is recognised. Two UK schemes are in surplus (2021: discount rate would lead to a decrease in the net pension deficit
three UK schemes), with a combined surplus of £109 million at 31 of approximately £400 million and a decrease in the annual
December 2022 (2021: £606 million). There are further recognised pension cost of approximately £19 million. A 0.75% reduction in the
pension surpluses totalling £120 million spread across five countries discount rate would lead to an increase in the net pension deficit
(2021: £135 million across six countries). GSK has made the of approximately £1,341 million and an increase in the annual
judgement that these amounts meet the requirements of pension cost of approximately £52 million. Similarly, a 0.75%
recoverability. increase in the discount rate would lead to a decrease in the net
pension deficit of approximately £1,147 million and a decrease in
Estimates
the annual pension cost of approximately £60 million. The
The costs of providing pensions and other post-employment
selection of different assumptions could affect the future results
benefits are assessed on the basis of assumptions selected by
of the Group.
management. These assumptions include future earnings and
pension increases, discount rates, expected long-term rates of
return on assets and mortality rates, and are disclosed in Note 31,
‘Pensions and other post-employment benefits’.
4. New accounting requirements
Amendments to accounting standards issued by the IASB and Certain new accounting standards, amendments to
adopted in the year ended 31 December 2022 did not have a accounting standards and interpretations have been
material impact on the results or financial position of the Group. published that are not mandatory for 31 December 2022
reporting periods and have not been adopted early by the
Group. These standards, amendments and interpretations are
not expected to have a material impact on the results or
financial position of the Group in future reporting periods.
5. Exchange rates
The Group uses the average of exchange rates prevailing during the period to translate the results and cash flows of overseas
subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates into Sterling and period end rates to translate the net assets of those entities. The
currencies which most influence these translations and the relevant exchange rates were:
2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020
Average rates: Period end rates:
US$/£ 1.24 1.38 1.29 US$/£ 1.20 1.35 1.36
Euro/£ 1.17 1.16 1.13 Euro/£ 1.13 1.19 1.11
Yen/£ 161 151 137 Yen/£ 159 155 141
194GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
195
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
6. Turnover and segment information
Operating segments are reported based on the financial information provided to the Chief Executive Officer and the responsibilities of
the GSK Leadership Team (GLT). GSK has revised its operating segments from Q1 2022 and from Q2 2022. Previously GSK reported
results under four segments: Pharmaceuticals, Pharmaceuticals R&D, Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare. For the first quarter 2022,
GSK reported results under three segments: Commercial Operations, Total R&D and Consumer Healthcare. From Q2 2022, GSK reports
under two segments from continuing operations as the demerger of the Consumer Healthcare segment was completed on 18 July 2022.
Members of the GLT are responsible for each segment. Comparative information has been retrospectively revised on a consistent basis.
R&D investment is essential for the sustainability of the business. However for segment reporting the Commercial Operating profits
exclude allocations of globally funded R&D.
The Total R&D segment is the responsibility of the Chief Scientific Officer and is reported as a separate segment. The operating costs of
this segment includes R&D activities across Specialty Medicines, including HIV and Vaccines. It includes R&D and some SG&A costs
relating to regulatory and other functions.
The Group’s management reporting process allocates intra-Group profit on a product sale to the segment in which that sale is recorded,
and the profit analyses below have been presented on that basis.
2021 2020
2022 (revised) (revised)
Turnover by segment £m £m £m
Commercial operations 29,324 24,696 24,232
Consumer Healthcare – – 122
29,324 24,696 24,354
On 1 April 2020, GSK completed its divestment of Horlicks and other Consumer Healthcare nutrition products in India and a
number of other countries (excluding Bangladesh) to Unilever and the merger of GSK’s Indian listed Consumer Healthcare entity
with Hindustan Unilever, an Indian listed company. GSK completed the divestment of Bangladesh on 30 June 2020.
This business was excluded from the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture but was included in the Consumer Healthcare segment
performance in 2020.
For 2022, product sales are reported within three product groups: Specialty Medicines, Vaccines and General Medicines.
2021(1) 2020(1)
2022 (revised) (revised)
Commercial Operations: £m £m £m
HIV 5,749 4,777 4,876
Oncology 602 489 372
Immuno-inflammation, respiratory and other 2,609 2,027 1,721
8,960 7,293 6,969
Pandemic 2,309 958 –
Specialty Medicines 11,269 8,251 6,969
Meningitis 1,116 961 1,029
Influenza 714 679 733
Shingles 2,958 1,721 1,989
Established Vaccines 3,085 2,970 3,231
7,873 6,331 6,982
Pandemic Vaccines 64 447 –
Vaccines 7,937 6,778 6,982
Respiratory 6,548 6,048 6,006
Other General Medicines 3,570 3,619 4,275
General Medicines 10,118 9,667 10,281
Total Commercial Operations 29,324 24,696 24,232
Total Consumer Healthcare – – 122
(1) The 2021 and 2020 comparatives have been revised to reflect the Commercial Operations segment.GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
6. Turnover and segment information continued
During 2022, sales were made to three US wholesalers of £4,045 million (2021: £3,159 million; 2020: £2,928 million), £4,161 million
(2021: £3,081 million; 2020: £3,085 million) and £3,227 million (2021: £2,670 million; 2020: £2,795 million) respectively, after
allocating final-customer discounts to the wholesalers.
Revenue recognised in the year from performance obligations satisfied in previous periods totalled £1,601 million (2021(1): £1,438
million) including £898 million (2021(1): £949 million) impacting turnover arising from changes to prior year estimates of RAR
(returns and rebates) accruals, £115 million (2021: £61 million) of milestone income and £588 million (2021: £428 million) of royalty
income recognised in the current year.
2021(1) 2020(1)
2022 (revised) (revised)
Segment profit
£m £m £m
Commercial Operations 13,590 11,467 11,297
Research and development (5,060) (4,567) (4,397)
Consumer Healthcare – – 55
Segment profit 8,530 6,900 6,955
Corporate and other unallocated costs (379) (407) (299)
Other reconciling items between segment profit and operating profit (1,718) (2,136) (677)
Total Operating profit 6,433 4,357 5,979
Finance income 76 14 32
Finance costs (879) (769) (874)
Loss on disposal of interest in associates – (36) –
Share of after-tax profits/(losses) of associates and joint ventures (2) 33 33
Profit before taxation from continuing operations 5,628 3,599 5,170
Taxation (707) (83) (67)
Profit after taxation for the year from continuing operations 4,921 3,516 5,103
On 1 April 2020, GSK completed its divestment of Horlicks and other Consumer Healthcare nutrition products in India and a
number of other countries (excluding Bangladesh) to Unilever and the merger of GSK’s Indian listed Consumer Healthcare entity
with Hindustan Unilever, an Indian listed company. GSK completed the divestment of Bangladesh on 30 June 2020.
Other reconciling items between segment profit and operating profit comprise items not specifically allocated to segment profit.
These include impairment and amortisation of intangible assets; major restructuring costs, which include impairments of tangible
assets and computer software; transaction-related adjustments related to significant acquisitions; proceeds and costs of disposals
of products and businesses, significant legal charges and expenses on the settlement of litigation and government investigations,
other operating income other than royalty income and other items. Please refer to the detail of Other reconciling items between
segment profit and operating profit in the analysis of adjusting items (Group financial review).
2021(a) 2020(a)
2022 (revised) (revised)
Depreciation and amortisation by segment
£m £m £m
Commercial Operations 829 915 904
Research and development 467 378 355
Segment depreciation and amortisation 1,296 1,293 1,259
Corporate and other unallocated depreciation and amortisation 112 68 67
Other reconciling items between segment depreciation and amortisation and total depreciation and
amortisation 739 761 724
Total depreciation and amortisation 2,147 2,122 2,050
(1) The 2021 and 2020 comparatives have been restated on a consistent basis from those previously published to reflect the demerger of the Consumer Healthcare business
(see Note 41).
196GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
197
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
6. Turnover and segment information continued
2021(1) 2020(1)
2022 (revised)(2) (revised)(2)
PP&E, intangible asset and goodwill impairment by segment
£m £m £m
Commercial Operations 29 30 87
Research and development 32 55 37
Segment impairment 61 85 124
Corporate and other unallocated impairment 20 63 5
Other reconciling items between segment impairment and total impairment 420 392 583
Total impairment 501 540 712
PP&E and intangible asset impairment reversals by segment
Commercial Operations (6) (8) (14)
Research and development (19) (2) (4)
Segment impairment reversals (25) (10) (18)
Corporate and other unallocated impairment reversals – – (1)
Other reconciling items between segment impairment reversals and total impairment reversals (1) (2) (35)
Total impairment reversals (26) (12) (54)
2021
2022 (revised)(2)
Net operating assets by segment £m £m
Commercial Operations 10,288 9,440
Research and development 7,299 3,461
Segment net operating assets 17,587 12,901
Corporate and other unallocated net operating assets 264 1,504
Discontinued operations – 25,208
Net operating assets 17,851 39,613
Net debt (17,197) (19,838)
Investments in associates and joint ventures 74 88
Current Equity Investment 4,087 –
Derivative financial instruments 7 (22)
Current and deferred taxation 5,176 1,479
Assets held for sale (excluding cash and cash equivalents) 98 22
Net assets 10,096 21,342
The Commercial Operations segment includes the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare contingent consideration liability of £5,890 million
(2021: £5,559 million) and the Pfizer put option of £1,093 million (2021: £1,008 million).
Geographical information
The UK is regarded as being the Group’s country of domicile.
2021(1) 2020(1)
2022 (revised)(2) (revised)(2)
Turnover by location of customer £m £m £m
UK 695 656 659
US 14,542 11,914 11,148
Rest of World 14,087 12,126 12,547
External turnover 29,324 24,696 24,354
2022 2021
Non-current assets by location of subsidiary £m £m
UK 5,134 6,618
US 14,024 17,852
Belgium 5,415 5,065
Switzerland 34 6,552
Rest of World 6,559 15,390
Non-current assets 31,166 51,477
Non-current assets by location excludes amounts relating to other investments, deferred tax assets, derivative financial
instruments, pension assets, amounts receivable under insurance contracts and certain other non-current receivables. There are
no other countries with individually material external revenue or non-current assets.
(1) The 2021 and 2020 comparatives have been restated on a consistent basis from those previously published to reflect the demerger of the Consumer Healthcare business
(see Note 41).
(2) The 2021 and 2020 comparatives have been revised to reflect the new segments.GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
7. Other operating income/(expense)
2022 2021(1) 2020(1)
£m £m £m
Upfront settlement income(2) 922 – –
Fair value remeasurements of equity investments 256 37 (6)
Disposal of businesses and assets 215 552 2,621
Fair value remeasurements on contingent consideration recognised in business combinations (1,607) (1,058) (1,286)
Remeasurement of ViiV Healthcare put option liabilities and preferential dividends (85) (48) 52
Fair value adjustments on derivative financial instruments 3 (4) 20
Other income 61 17 62
(235) (504) 1,463
(1) The 2021 and 2020 comparatives have been restated on a consistent basis from those previously published to reflect the demerger of the Consumer Healthcare business
(see Note 41).
(2) On 1 February 2022, ViiV Healthcare reached agreement with Gilead Sciences, Inc (Gilead) to settle the global patent infringement litigation relating to the commercialisation
of Gilead’s Biktarvy concerning ViiV Healthcare’s patents relating to dolutegravir, an anti-retroviral medication used, together with other medicines, to treat human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV). Under the terms of the global settlement and licensing agreement, Gilead made an upfront payment of $1.25 billion (£922 million) to ViiV
Healthcare on 15 February 2022. In addition, Gilead will also pay a 3% royalty on all future US sales of Biktarvy and in respect of the bictegravir component of any other future
bictegravir-containing products sold in the US. These royalties will be payable by Gilead to ViiV Healthcare from 1 February 2022 until the expiry of ViiV Healthcare’s US Patent
No. 8,129,385 on 5 October 2027 and will be recorded as Royalty income in the Income Statement.
Fair value remeasurement on equity investments in 2022 included a gain/loss of £229 million from the remeasurement of the
Group’s retained investment in Haleon plc to fair value at 31 December 2022 from the initial recognition fair value (five-day
average share price after the demerger). See details in Note 22.
Disposal of businesses and assets in 2022 includes milestone income and the reversal of provisions no longer required.
Disposal of businesses and assets in 2021 included a net gain on disposal of the rights to the royalty stream for cabozantinib and
a net gain on disposal of the cephalosporin antibiotic brands to Sandoz.
Disposal of businesses and assets in 2020 included a net profit on disposal of the Horlicks and other Consumer Healthcare
nutritional brands and two subsidiaries in India and Bangladesh of £2,815 million, which reflected reversal of £240 million of
embedded derivative gains on the value of the shares taken in prior years. This was partly offset by the related £476 million loss
on the shares in Hindustan Unilever Limited, including fair value remeasurement losses between their acquisition as consideration
for the divestment of GSK Consumer Healthcare Limited in India and their subsequent disposal. Other operating income also
included an increase in profit and milestone income from a number of asset disposals.
Fair value remeasurements on contingent consideration recognised as business combinations included £1,431 million related to
the acquisition of the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture and £193 million payable to Novartis related to the Vaccines
acquisition, together with fair value movements on related hedging contracts.
198GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
199
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
8. Operating profit
2022 2021(1) 2020(1)
The following items have been included in operating profit:
£m £m £m
Employee costs (Note 9) 7,693 7,680 8,555
Advertising 735 433 361
Distribution costs 192 169 176
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 885 855 822
Impairment of property, plant and equipment, net of reversals 70 87 424
Depreciation of right of use assets 176 179 182
Impairment of right of use assets 40 5 2
Amortisation of intangible assets 1,086 1,088 1,046
Impairment of intangible assets, net of reversals 365 435 230
Impairment of intangible assets held for sale, net of reversals – 1 –
Impairment of goodwill allocated to a disposal group, net of reversals – – 2
Net foreign exchange (gains)/losses 11 (4) 99
Inventories:
Cost of inventories included in cost of sales 6,137 5,885 5,934
Write-down of inventories 687 800 607
Reversal of prior year write-down of inventories (483) (325) (250)
Short-term lease charge 6 7 11
Low-value lease charge 2 3 5
Variable lease payments 9 10 11
Fees payable to the company’s auditor and its associates in relation to the Group (see below) 26.9 31.7 29.9
The reversals of prior year write-downs of inventories principally arise from the reassessment of usage or demand expectations
prior to inventory expiration.
Net foreign exchange (gains)/losses include a net loss of £2 million (2021: £35 million gain; 2020: £36 million loss) arising from the
recycling of exchange on liquidation or disposal of overseas subsidiaries. The recycling of exchange on disposal of overseas
associates of a loss of £nil (2021: £10 million) is reported through loss on disposal of interest in associates. The recycling of
exchange on disposal of overseas subsidiaries does not include recycling of exchange on disposal of Consumer Healthcare
subsidiaries as this is reported as Profit after taxation on demerger of discontinued operations.
Included within operating profit are Major restructuring charges of £321 million (2021: £424 million; 2020: £1,178 million), see Note
10, ‘Major restructuring costs’.
2022 2021 2020
Fees payable to the company’s auditor and its associates: £m £m £m
Audit of parent company and consolidated financial statements including attestation under s.404
of Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 10.9 13.2 13.8
Audit of the company’s subsidiaries 9.7 14.5 14.5
Total audit services 20.6 27.7 28.3
Audit-related and other assurance services 6.3 4.0 1.6
Total audit services, audit-related and other assurance services 26.9 31.7 29.9
The other assurance services provided by the auditor related to agreed upon procedures and other assurance services outside of
statutory audit requirements. In addition to the above, fees paid to the auditor in respect of the GSK pension schemes were:
2022 2021 2020
£m £m £m
Audit 0.2 0.2 0.2
There were immaterial fees of £0.1 million paid in 2022 (versus 2021: £nil; 2020 £0.2 million) to other auditors in respect of audits of
certain of the company’s subsidiaries.
Audit related and other assurance services include £4.4 million (2021: £2.4 million) due to reporting accountant work performed in
preparation for the Consumer Healthcare demerger.
(1) The 2021 and 2020 comparatives have been restated on a consistent basis from those previously published to reflect the demerger of the Consumer Healthcare business
(see Note 41).GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
9. Employee costs
2022 2021(1) 2020(1)
£m £m £m
Wages and salaries 6,110 5,858 6,464
Social security costs 763 793 775
Pension and other post-employment costs, including augmentations (Note 31) 369 415 466
Cost of share-based incentive plans 314 345 330
Severance and other costs from integration and restructuring activities 137 269 520
7,693 7,680 8,555
The Group provides benefits to employees, commensurate with local practice in individual countries, including in some markets,
healthcare insurance, subsidised car schemes and personal life assurance.
The cost of share-based incentive plans is analysed as follows:
2022 2021(1) 2020(1)
£m £m £m
Share Value Plan 243 258 266
Performance Share Plan 55 51 56
Share option plans 4 5 4
Cash settled and other plans 12 31 4
314 345 330
The average number of persons employed by the Group (including Directors) during the year:
2022 2021(1) 2020(1)
Number Number Number
Manufacturing 22,946 23,562 24,536
Selling, general and administration 34,642 36,909 37,977
Research and development 11,542 10,874 10,744
Total Continuing Operations 69,130 71,345 73,257
Discontinued Operations 21,292 20,616 22,628
Total 90,422 91,961 95,885
Note: Consumer Healthcare divested on 18 July 2022 is shown as Discontinued Operations in the above table.
The average monthly number of Group employees excludes temporary and contract staff. The numbers of Group employees at
the end of each financial year are given in the financial record on page 277.
The compensation of the Directors and senior management (members of the GLT) in aggregate, was as follows:
2022 2021(1) 2020(1)
£m £m £m
Wages and salaries 31 27 21
Social security costs 5 3 4
Pension and other post-employment costs 2 3 3
Cost of share-based incentive plans 28 27 23
66 60 51
Further information on the remuneration of the Directors is given in the sections of the Annual Report on remuneration labelled as
audited within pages 133 to 164.
(1) The 2021 and 2020 comparatives have been restated on a consistent basis from those previously published to reflect the demerger of the Consumer Healthcare business
(see Note 41).
200GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
201
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
10. Major restructuring costs
Within the Pharmaceuticals sector, the highly regulated manufacturing operations and supply chains and long lifecycle of the
business mean that restructuring programmes, particularly those that involve the rationalisation or closure of manufacturing or
R&D sites, are likely to take several years to complete.
Major restructuring costs are those related to specific Board-approved Major restructuring programmes, including integration
costs following material acquisitions, which are structural and are of a significant scale where the costs of individual or related
projects exceed £25 million.
In January 2020, the Board approved a Separation Preparation programme to prepare for the separation of GSK into two
companies. Materially all of the Separation Preparation restructuring programme has been included as part of continuing
operations. The legacy Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture integration programme is now included as part of discontinued
operations.
After the acquisition of Sierra Oncology (July 2022) and Affinivax (August 2022), the Board approved a Major restructuring
programme for the Integration of significant acquisitions designed to integrate and achieve synergies.
The total restructuring costs of £321 million in 2022 were incurred in the following areas:
– Restructuring costs to prepare for separation of GSK into two companies
– Continued transformation of central functions, including GSK technology platforms and interfaces, to deliver greater digital
synergies, simplification of applications and staff reductions
– The integration of acquisitions.
The analysis of the costs charged to operating profit from continuing operations under these programmes was as follows:
2022 2021(1) 2020(1)
£m £m £m
Increase in provision for Major restructuring programmes (see Note 32) 138 321 606
Amount of provision reversed unused (see Note 32) (111) (140) (71)
Impairment losses recognised 122 14 347
Other non-cash charges/(credit) (7) 25 62
Other cash costs 179 204 234
321 424 1,178
Provision reversals of £111 million (2021(1): £140 million; 2020(1): £71 million) reflected provision releases mainly related to the
Separation Preparation programme. Asset impairments of £122 million and other non-cash credit of £7 million principally
comprised fixed asset write-downs of manufacturing facilities and accelerated depreciation where asset lives have been
shortened in the supply chain manufacturing network as a result of the Major restructuring programmes, offset by profit on
disposals. All other charges have been or will be settled in cash and include site closure costs, consultancy and project
management costs.
The analysis of Major restructuring charges from continuing operations by programme was as follows:
2022
Cash Non-cash Total
£m £m £m
Separation Preparation programme 177 110 287
Significant acquisitions 20 – 20
Legacy programmes 9 5 14
206 115 321
2021(a)
Cash Non-cash Total
£m £m £m
Separation Preparation programme 353 59 412
Legacy programmes 32 (20) 12
385 39 424
(1) The 2021 and 2020 comparatives have been restated on a consistent basis from those previously published to reflect the demerger of the Consumer Healthcare business
(see Note 41).GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
10. Major restructuring costs continued
The analysis of Major restructuring charges from continuing operations by income statement line was as follows:
2022 2021(1) 2020(1)
£m £m £m
Cost of sales 102 102 585
Selling, general and administration 180 277 395
Research and development 39 45 198
321 424 1,178
11. Finance income
2022 2021(1) 2020(1)
£m £m £m
Finance income arising from:
Financial assets measured at amortised cost 31 11 17
Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss 31 2 9
Net gains arising from the forward element of forward contracts in net investment hedge relationships 12 – 5
Other finance income 2 1 1
76 14 32
12. Finance expense
2022 2021(1) 2020(1)
£m £m £m
Finance expense arising on:
Financial liabilities at amortised cost (789) (735) (811)
Net losses arising from:
Financial instruments mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss 743 (565) 382
Retranslation of loans (761) 565 (384)
Reclassification of hedges from other comprehensive income (2) (2) (2)
Unwinding of discounts on provisions (7) (2) (3)
Finance expense arising on lease liabilities (30) (27) (33)
Other finance expense (33) (3) (23)
(879) (769) (874)
(1) The 2021 and 2020 comparatives have been restated on a consistent basis from those previously published to reflect the demerger of the Consumer Healthcare business
(see Note 41).
202GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
203
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
13. Associates and joint ventures
The Group’s share of after-tax profits and losses of associates and joint ventures is set out below:
2022 2021(1) 2020(1)
£m £m £m
Share of after-tax profits of associates 1 36 33
Share of after-tax losses of joint ventures (3) (3) –
(2) 33 33
(1) 2021 and 2020 comparatives have not been restated, as the demerged Consumer Healthcare business contained no associates or joint ventures.
Following the disposal of Innoviva, Inc in May 2021 (see details in Note 41), at 31 December 2022 and 31 December 2021 the Group
held no significant individual associates. At 31 December 2020, the Group held one significant associate, Innoviva, Inc.
Summarised income statement information in respect of Innoviva until May 2021 is set out below. The Group’s 2021 share of
after-tax profits of associates and other comprehensive income included a profit of £33 million and other comprehensive income
of £nil in respect of Innoviva.
The results of Innoviva included in the summarised income statement information below represent the estimated earnings of
Innoviva in the relevant periods, based on publicly available information at the balance sheet date. Figures for 2021 include share
of Innoviva’s turnover, profit and total comprehensive income until the date of the disposal.
2021 2020
£m £m
Turnover 108 253
Profit after taxation 106 174
Total comprehensive income 106 174
Aggregated financial information in respect of GSK’s share of other associated undertakings and joint ventures is set out below:
2022 2021 2020
£m £m £m
Share of after-tax losses (2) – (8)
Share of other comprehensive income/(expense) (9) 28 53
Share of total comprehensive income/(expense) (11) 28 45
The Group’s sales to associates and joint ventures were £nil in 2022 (2021: £nil; 2020: £nil).
Please refer to the Balance sheet information on associates and joint ventures in Note 21.GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
14. Taxation
The Group’s tax charge is the sum of the total current and deferred tax expense.
2022 2021(1) 2020(1)
Taxation charge based on profits for the year
£m £m £m
UK current year charge 200 119 (45)
Rest of World current year charge 1,351 593 745
Charge/(credit) in respect of prior periods (60) 219 11
Current taxation 1,491 931 711
Deferred taxation (784) (848) (644)
707 83 67
In 2022, GSK made corporate income tax payments globally of £1.5 billion for continuing and discontinued operations, of which
£48 million was UK corporation tax paid to HMRC. These amounts are for corporate income tax only, and do not include the
various other business taxes borne by GSK each year.
The deferred tax credits in each period reflect current year losses where offset against taxable profits in future periods is probable
and the release of deferred tax liabilities. The latter relates primarily to the unwind of deferred tax liabilities on intangible assets.
The deferred tax credit in 2021 also reflected the impact of the remeasurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities following
enactment of the increase in the headline rate of UK corporation tax from 19% to 25%.
The following table reconciles the tax charge calculated at the UK statutory rate on the Group profit before tax with the actual
tax charge for the year.
2022 2022 2021(1) 2021 2020(1) 2020
Reconciliation of taxation on Group profits £m % £m % £m %
Profit before tax 5,628 3,599 5,170
UK statutory rate of taxation 1,069 19.0 685 19.0 984 19.0
Differences in overseas taxation rates 318 5.6 302 8.4 363 7.0
Benefit of intellectual property incentives (600) (10.7) (382) (10.6) (516) (9.9)
R&D credits (119) (2.1) (100) (2.8) (103) (2.0)
Permanent differences on disposals, acquisitions and transfers 275 4.9 (3) (0.1) (316) (6.1)
Other permanent differences 82 1.5 (4) (0.1) 90 1.7
Re-assessments of prior year current tax estimates (60) (1.1) 219 6.1 11 0.2
Re-assessments of prior year deferred tax estimates (233) (4.1) (281) (7.8) (283) (5.5)
Changes in Tax Rates (25) (0.4) (353) (9.8) (163) (3.1)
Tax charge/tax rate 707 12.6 83 2.3 67 12.9
As a global biopharmaceutical company, we have a substantial business and employment presence in many countries around the
world. The impact of differences in overseas taxation rates arose from profits being earned in countries with tax rates higher than
the UK statutory rate, the most significant of which in 2022 were the US, Belgium, Germany and Japan. This adverse impact was
offset by the benefit of intellectual property incentives such as the UK Patent Box and Belgian Innovation Income Deduction
regimes, which provide a reduced rate of corporation tax on profits earned from qualifying patents. We claim these incentives in
the manner intended by the relevant statutory or regulatory framework.
In 2021, ‘Changes in tax rates’ included credits in relation to the enactment of the increase in the headline rate of UK corporate
income tax from 19% to 25% (effective 2023). In 2020, ‘Changes in tax rates’ included credits in relation to the UK, where a
reduction in the corporate income tax rate from 19% to 17% was cancelled, and India, where the tax treatment of dividends
changed with effect from 1 April 2020.
Permanent differences on disposals, acquisitions and transfers in 2022 includes tax on internal restructuring to simplify the group
structure. The tax credit in 2020 reflected the tax impact of the disposal of Horlicks and other Consumer Healthcare brands to,
and subsequent disposal of shares received in, Hindustan Unilever.
The Group’s 2022 tax rate has also been influenced by updates to estimates of prior period tax liabilities following closure of open
issues with tax authorities in various jurisdictions.
(1) The 2021 and 2020 comparatives have been restated on a consistent basis from those previously published to reflect the demerger of the Consumer Healthcare business
(see Note 41).
204GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
205
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
14. Taxation continued
Future tax charges, and therefore our effective tax rate, may be affected by factors such as acquisitions, disposals, restructurings,
the location of research and development activity, tax regime reforms and resolution of open matters as we continue to bring our
tax affairs up to date around the world.
The UK Government has confirmed that the Spring Finance Bill 2023 will include legislation introducing a 15% global minimum
corporate income tax rate, to have effect from 2024 in line with the OECD’s Pillar Two model framework. The detail of the
measures and how they are to be accounted for is still being finalised and so it is not possible to accurately quantify the impact for
GSK at this stage.
2022 2021(1) 2020(1)
Tax on items charged to equity and statement of comprehensive income £m £m £m
Current taxation
Share-based payments (3) – (14)
Defined benefit plans – – (4)
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges – 5 12
Fair value movements on equity investments 12 36 89
9 41 83
Deferred taxation
Share-based payments 11 (11) 18
Defined benefit plans (211) 223 (51)
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges (9) 3 6
Fair value movements on equity investments (68) (167) 131
(277) 48 104
Total credit to equity and statement of comprehensive income (268) 89 187
(1) The 2021 and 2020 comparatives have been restated on a consistent basis from those previously published to reflect the demerger of the Consumer Healthcare business
(see Note 41).
All of the above items have been charged to the statement of comprehensive income except for tax on share-based payments.
Issues relating to taxation
The integrated nature of the Group’s worldwide operations involves significant investment in research and strategic manufacture
at a limited number of locations, with consequential cross-border supply routes into numerous end-markets. In line with current
OECD guidelines, we base our transfer pricing policy on the arm’s length principle and support our transfer prices with economic
analysis and reports. However, different tax authorities may seek to attribute further profit to activities being undertaken in their
jurisdiction potentially resulting in double taxation. The Group also has open items in several jurisdictions concerning such matters
as the deductibility of particular expenses and the tax treatment of certain business transactions. GSK applies a risk based
approach to determine the transactions most likely to be subject to challenge and the probability that the Group would be able to
obtain compensatory adjustments under international tax treaties.
The calculation of the Group’s total tax charge therefore necessarily involves a degree of estimation and judgement in respect of
certain items whose tax treatment cannot be finally determined until resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority
or, as appropriate, through a formal legal process. At 31 December 2022 the Group had recognised provisions of £551 million in
respect of such uncertain tax positions (2021: £858 million). The net decrease in recognised provisions during 2022 was driven by
the reassessment of estimates, the agreement of a number of open issues with tax authorities in various jurisdictions and amounts
related to discontinued operations. Whilst the ultimate liability for such matters may vary from the amounts provided and is
dependent upon the outcome of agreements with the relevant tax authorities, or litigation where appropriate, the Group continues
to consider that it has made appropriate provision for periods which are open and not yet agreed by the tax authorities.
A provision for deferred tax liabilities of £157 million as at 31 December 2022 (2021: £204 million) has been made in respect of
taxation that would be payable on the remittance of profits by certain overseas subsidiaries. Whilst the aggregate amount of
unremitted profits at the balance sheet date was approximately £16 billion (2021: £15 billion), the majority of these unremitted
profits would not be subject to tax (including withholding tax) on repatriation, as UK legislation relating to company distributions
provides for exemption from tax for most overseas profits, subject to certain exceptions. Deferred tax is not provided on temporary
differences of £660 million (2021: £831 million) arising on unremitted profits as management has the ability to control any future
reversal and does not consider such a reversal to be probable.GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
14. Taxation continued
Movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities
Pensions & Share Other
Accelerated other post option net
capital Intangible Contingent Intra-Group employment Tax and award temporary
allowances assets consideration profit benefits losses schemes differences Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2021 (296) (3,982) 843 1,024 874 1,060 60 1,104 687
Exchange adjustments 17 (41) – 6 (17) (1) – – (36)
Credit/(charge) to income statement 65 312 7 (31) 6 391 20 232 1,002
Credit/(charge) to statement of
comprehensive income – – – – (223) – 11 164 (48)
Acquisitions/Disposals 3 – – – – – – (4) (1)
R&D credits utilisation – – – – – – – 58 58
At 31 December 2021 (211) (3,711) 850 999 640 1,450 91 1,554 1,662
Exchange adjustments (29) (264) – (40) 64 6 1 160 (102)
Credit/(charge) to income statement 122 126 142 258 (32) 104 (22) 190 888
Credit/(charge) to statement of
comprehensive income – – – – 182 42 (11) (12) 201
Acquisitions/Disposals (1) (637) – – – 67 – 76 (495)
R&D credits utilisation – – – – – – – (76) (76)
Transfer of assets held for sale/
distribution 62 3,667 – (118) (60) (8) (2) (250) 3,291
At 31 December 2022 (57) (819) 992 1,099 794 1,661 57 1,642 5,369
Deferred tax liabilities in relation to intangible assets predominately relate to temporary differences arising as a result of historic business
combinations.
The Group continues to recognise deferred tax assets on future obligations in respect of contingent consideration amounts payable to
minority shareholders. These payments are tax deductible at the point in time at which payment is made.
A deferred tax asset is recognised on intra-Group profits arising on inter-company inventory which are eliminated within the consolidated
accounts. As intra-Group profits are not eliminated from the individual entities’ tax returns a temporary difference arises that will reverse
at the point in time inventory is sold externally.
The deferred tax asset recognised on tax losses of £1,661 million (2021: £1,450 million) relates to trading losses. Such deferred tax assets
are recognised where it is probable that future taxable profit will be available to utilise losses, as supported by long-range product level
forecasts. Current forecasts indicate the assets will be utilised by around 2030. Other net temporary differences included accrued
expenses for which a tax deduction is only available on a paid basis.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised on the balance sheet as follows:
2022 2021
£m £m
Deferred tax assets 5,658 5,218
Deferred tax liabilities (289) (3,556)
5,369 1,662
2022 2021
Unrecognised Unrecognised
deferred tax deferred tax
Tax losses asset Tax losses asset
Unrecognised tax losses £m £m £m £m
Trading losses expiring:
Within 10 years 967 175 1,068 198
More than 10 years 44 13 390 62
Available indefinitely 192 41 200 43
At 31 December 1,203 229 1,658 303
Capital losses expiring:
Available indefinitely 2,326 548 2,356 557
At 31 December 2,326 548 2,356 557
Deferred tax assets are only recognised where it is probable that future taxable profit will be available to utilise losses.
206GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
207
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
15. Earnings per share
2022 2021(1) 2020(1)
pence pence pence
Basic earnings per share from continuing operations 110.8 82.9 122.4
Basic earnings per share from discontinued operations 260.6 26.7 22.0
Total basic earnings per share 371.4 109.6 144.4
Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations 109.2 81.8 120.9
Diluted earnings per share from discontinued operations 257.0 26.4 21.7
Total diluted earnings per share 366.2 108.2 142.6
(1) The 2021 and 2020 comparatives have been restated on a consistent basis from those previously published to reflect the demerger of the Consumer Healthcare business
(see Note 41) and/or the impact of Share Consolidation (see Note 37).
Basic earnings per share has been calculated by dividing the profit attributable to shareholders by the weighted average number
of shares in issue during the period after deducting shares held by the ESOP Trusts and Treasury shares. The trustees have waived
their rights to cash dividends on the GSK shares held by the ESOP Trusts.
Diluted earnings per share has been calculated after adjusting the weighted average number of shares used in the basic
calculation to assume the conversion of all potentially dilutive shares. A potentially dilutive share forms part of the employee share
schemes where its exercise price is below the average market price of GSK shares during the period and any performance
conditions attaching to the scheme have been met at the balance sheet date.
The numbers of shares used in calculating basic and diluted earnings per share are reconciled below.
2022 2021(2) 2020(2)
Weighted average number of shares in issue millions millions millions
Basic 4,026 4,003 3,981
Dilution for share options and awards 58 49 49
Diluted 4,084 4,052 4,030
(2) Restated to reflect the impact share consolidation (see Note 37).
16. Dividends
2022 2021 2020
Dividend Total Dividend Total Dividend Total
per share dividend per share dividend per share dividend
Paid/payable (pence)(3) £m Paid (pence)(3) £m Paid (pence)(3) £m
First interim 1 July 2022 17.50 704 8 July 2021 23.75 951 9 July 2020 23.75 946
Second interim 6 October 2022 16.25 654 7 October 2021 23.75 951 8 October 2020 23.75 946
Third interim 12 January 2023 13.75 555 13 January 2022 23.75 952 14 January 2021 23.75 946
Fourth interim 13 April 2023 13.75 555 7 April 2022 28.75 1,157* 8 April 2021 28.75 1,151
Total 61.25 2,468 100 4,011 100 3,989
* The estimate for the fourth interim dividend for 2021 disclosed in the 2021 annual report was £1,152 million, £5 million less than the dividend that was ultimately paid.
(3) Dividends per share were retrospectively adjusted to reflect the Share Consolidation in all the periods presented. See details in Note 37.
Under IFRS, interim dividends are only recognised in the financial statements when paid and not when declared. GSK normally
pays a dividend two quarters after the quarter to which it relates and one quarter after it is declared. The 2022 financial
statements recognise those dividends paid in 2022, namely the third and fourth interim dividends for 2021, and the first and
second interim dividends for 2022.
The demerger of the Consumer Healthcare business was effected by GSK declaring an interim dividend in specie of Haleon plc
shares. The fair value of the distribution was £15,526 million.
The amounts recognised in each year were as follows:
2022 2021 2020
£m £m £m
Cash dividends to shareholders 3,467 3,999 3,977
Dividends in specie to shareholders in Haleon plc shares (Note 41) 15,526 – –
18,993 3,999 3,977GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
17. Property, plant and equipment
Plant,
Land and equipment Assets in
buildings and vehicles construction Total
£m £m £m £m
Cost at 1 January 2021 7,488 12,105 1,890 21,483
Exchange adjustments (214) (315) (47) (576)
Other additions 16 98 1,091 1,205
Capitalised borrowing costs – – 16 16
Disposals and write-offs (217) (940) (17) (1,174)
Reclassifications 202 906 (1,182) (74)
Transfer to assets held for sale/distribution (63) (38) (1) (102)
Cost at 31 December 2021 7,212 11,816 1,750 20,778
Exchange adjustments 403 542 105 1,050
Additions through business combinations 5 8 17 30
Other additions 13 79 1,153 1,245
Capitalised borrowing costs – – 21 21
Disposals and write-offs (64) (222) (5) (291)
Reclassifications 146 689 (874) (39)
Transfer to assets held for sale/distribution (1,067) (1,959) (317) (3,343)
Cost at 31 December 2022 6,648 10,953 1,850 19,451
Depreciation at 1 January 2021 (3,310) (7,140) – (10,450)
Exchange adjustments 100 191 – 291
Charge for the year (267) (715) – (982)
Disposals and write-offs 169 893 – 1,062
Transfer to assets held for sale/distribution 27 27 – 54
Depreciation at 31 December 2021 (3,281) (6,744) – (10,025)
Exchange adjustments (191) (310) – (501)
Charge for the year (226) (726) – (952)
Disposals and write-offs 47 181 – 228
Transfer to assets held for sale/distribution 376 1,130 – 1,506
Depreciation at 31 December 2022 (3,275) (6,469) – (9,744)
Impairment at 1 January 2021 (280) (551) (26) (857)
Exchange adjustments 7 10 3 20
Disposals and write-offs 30 76 13 119
Impairment losses (21) (54) (37) (112)
Reversal of impairments – 5 4 9
Impairment at 31 December 2021 (264) (514) (43) (821)
Exchange adjustments (9) (14) (1) (24)
Disposals and write-offs 9 47 5 61
Impairment losses (33) (45) (5) (83)
Reversal of impairments – 9 – 9
Transfer to assets held for sale/distribution 37 45 2 84
Impairment at 31 December 2022 (260) (472) (42) (774)
Total depreciation and impairment at 31 December 2021 (3,545) (7,258) (43) (10,846)
Total depreciation and impairment at 31 December 2022 (3,535) (6,941) (42) (10,518)
Net book value at 1 January 2021 3,898 4,414 1,864 10,176
Net book value at 31 December 2021 3,667 4,558 1,707 9,932
Net book value at 31 December 2022 3,113 4,012 1,808 8,933
208GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
209
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
17. Property, plant and equipment continued
The weighted average interest rate for capitalised borrowing costs in the year was 4% (2021: 3%). Disposals and write-offs in
the year included a number of assets with nil net book value that are no longer in use in the business.
The impairment losses principally arose from decisions to rationalise facilities and were calculated based on fair value less costs
of disposal. The fair value less costs of disposal valuation methodology uses significant inputs which are not based on observable
market data, and therefore this valuation technique is classified as level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. These calculations determine
the net present value of the projected risk-adjusted, post-tax cash flows of the relevant asset or cash generating unit, applying a
discount rate of the Group post-tax weighted average cost of capital (WACC) of 7%, adjusted where appropriate for specific
segment, country and currency risk.
Assets that continue to be used by the Group are generally assessed as part of their associated cash generating unit on a value
in use basis. For value in use calculations, the post-tax cash flows do not include the impact of future uncommitted restructuring
plans or improvements. Where an impairment is indicated and a pre-tax cash flow calculation is expected to give a materially
different result, the test would be reperformed using pre-tax cash flows and a pre-tax discount rate. The Group WACC is
equivalent to a pre-tax discount rate of approximately 9%.
The net impairment losses have been charged to cost of sales: £11 million (2021: £46 million), R&D: £7 million (2021: £3 million) and
SG&A: £55 million (2021: £54 million), and included £34 million (2021: £20 million) arising from the Major restructuring
programmes.
Reversals of impairment arose from subsequent reviews of the impaired assets where the conditions which gave rise to the original
impairments were deemed no longer to apply. All of the reversals have been credited to cost of sales.
During 2022, £39 million (2021: £74 million) of computer software was reclassified from assets in construction to intangible assets
on becoming ready for use.
GSK has assessed the qualitative and quantitative impact of climate related risks on asset recoverable amounts and concluded
that there are no material impairments.
18. Right of use assets
Land and Plant and
buildings equipment Vehicles Total
£m £m £m £m
Net book value at 1 January 2021 699 18 113 830
Exchange adjustments (9) (1) (5) (15)
Additions 152 1 62 215
Depreciation (149) (5) (59) (213)
Disposals (53) (4) (13) (70)
Impairments (7) – – (7)
Net book value at 31 December 2021 633 9 98 740
Exchange adjustments 47 – 8 55
Additions through business combinations 53 – – 53
Other additions 140 2 91 233
Depreciation (131) (3) (58) (192)
Transfer to assets held for sale/distribution (115) (1) (11) (127)
Disposals (27) (1) (8) (36)
Impairments (39) – – (39)
Net book value at 31 December 2022 561 6 120 687
The Group has entered into some commitments for lease contracts that have not yet commenced. See Note 36.
An analysis of lease liabilities is set out in Note 30, ‘Net debt’.GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
19. Goodwill
2022 2021
£m £m
Cost at 1 January 10,552 10,597
Exchange adjustments 550 (55)
Additions through business combinations (Note 41) 1,127 –
Other movements – 10
Transfer to assets held for sale/distribution (5,183) –
Cost at 31 December 7,046 10,552
Net book value at 1 January 10,552 10,597
Net book value at 31 December 7,046 10,552
All Goodwill is allocated to the Group’s segments as follows:
2022
£m
Commercial operations 6,148
Total R&D 898
Net book value at 31 December 7,046
In 2021, prior to changes in the Group’s segment reporting (Note 6) Goodwill was allocated as follows:
2021
£m
Pharmaceuticals 4,228
Vaccines 1,264
Consumer Healthcare 5,060
Net book value at 31 December 10,552
Goodwill of £5,183 million allocated to Consumer Healthcare was transferred to ‘assets held for sale/distribution’ prior to the
Consumer Healthcare demerger (Note 41).
The recoverable amounts of the cash generating units are assessed using a fair value less costs of disposal model. Fair value less
costs of disposal is calculated using a discounted cash flow approach, with a post-tax discount rate applied to the projected
risk-adjusted post-tax cash flows and terminal value.
The discount rate used is based on the Group WACC of 7% (2021: 6.5%), as most cash generating units have integrated
operations across large parts of the Group. The discount rate is adjusted where appropriate for specific segment, country and
currency risks. The valuation methodology uses significant inputs which are not based on observable market data, therefore this
valuation technique is classified as level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.
The R&D segment is evaluated on an arms length pricing model, see assumptions below.
Details relating to the discounted cash flow models used in the impairment tests are as follows:
Valuation basis Fair value less costs of disposal
Key assumptions Sales growth rates
Profit margins
Terminal growth rate
Discount rate
Taxation rate
Determination of assumptions Growth rates are internal forecasts based on both internal and external market information.
Margins reflect past experience, adjusted for expected changes.
Terminal growth rates based on management’s estimate of future long-term average growth rates.
Discount rates based on Group WACC, adjusted where appropriate.
Taxation rates based on appropriate rates for each jurisdiction.
Period of specific projected cash flows Five years
Terminal growth rate and discount rate Terminal growth rate Discount rate
2022
Commercial operations 0% p.a. 7% p.a
R&D 0% p.a. 7% p.a
2021
Pharmaceuticals 0% p.a. 7% p.a
Vaccines 0% p.a. 7% p.a
Consumer Healthcare 2.5% p.a. 6% p.a
The terminal growth rate does not exceed the long-term projected growth rates for relevant markets, reflects the impact of future
generic competition and take account of new product launches. Goodwill is monitored for impairment at the segmental level and
the valuations indicated sufficient headroom such that a reasonably possible change to key assumptions is unlikely to result in an
impairment of the related goodwill.
GSK has assessed the qualitative and quantitative impact of climate related risks on asset recoverable amounts and concluded
that there are no material impairments.
210GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
211
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
20. Other intangible assets
Licences,
patents,
Computer amortised Indefinite life
software brands etc. brands Total
£m £m £m £m
Cost at 1 January 2021 2,403 20,822 18,613 41,838
Exchange adjustments (15) (207) 65 (157)
Capitalised development costs – 346 – 346
Other additions 184 1,410 – 1,594
Disposals and asset write-offs (221) (935) – (1,156)
Transfer to assets held for sale/distribution (1) (6) (43) (50)
Reclassifications 74 9 (9) 74
Cost at 31 December 2021 2,424 21,439 18,626 42,489
Exchange adjustments 63 934 1,112 2,109
Capitalised development costs – 317 – 317
Additions through business combinations – 2,964 – 2,964
Other additions 149 626 – 775
Disposals and asset write-offs (203) (33) – (236)
Transfer to assets held for sale/distribution (513) (496) (19,772) (20,781)
Reclassifications 39 (34) 34 39
Cost at 31 December 2022 1,959 25,717 – 27,676
Amortisation at 1 January 2021 (1,322) (7,932) – (9,254)
Exchange adjustments 13 52 – 65
Charge for the year (225) (956) – (1,181)
Disposals and asset write-offs 165 572 – 737
Transfer to assets held for sale – 2 – 2
Amortisation at 31 December 2021 (1,369) (8,262) – (9,631)
Exchange adjustments (33) (307) – (340)
Charge for the year (204) (931) – (1,135)
Disposals and asset write-offs 129 19 – 148
Transfer to assets held for sale/distribution 254 300 – 554
Amortisation at 31 December 2022 (1,223) (9,181) – (10,404)
Impairment at 1 January 2021 (28) (2,487) (245) (2,760)
Exchange adjustments – 5 – 5
Impairment losses (93) (362) – (455)
Reversal of impairments – 2 37 39
Disposals and asset write-offs 30 362 – 392
Impairment at 31 December 2021 (91) (2,480) (208) (2,779)
Exchange adjustments (2) (138) (1) (141)
Impairment losses (72) (313) (17) (402)
Transfer to assets held for sale/distribution 10 34 226 270
Reversal of impairments 1 17 – 18
Disposals and asset write-offs 73 7 – 80
Impairment at 31 December 2022 (81) (2,873) – (2,954)
Total amortisation and impairment at 31 December 2021 (1,460) (10,742) (208) (12,410)
Total amortisation and impairment at 31 December 2022 (1,304) (12,054) – (13,358)
Net book value at 1 January 2021 1,053 10,403 18,368 29,824
Net book value at 31 December 2021 964 10,697 18,418 30,079
Net book value at 31 December 2022 655 13,663 – 14,318
The weighted average interest rate for capitalised borrowing costs in the year was 4% (2021: 3%).
The net book value of computer software included £479 million (2021: £526 million) of internally generated costs.
The carrying value at 31 December 2022 of intangible assets, for which impairments have been charged in the year following
those impairments, was £83 million (2021: £694 million). The carrying value at 31 December 2022 of intangible assets, for which
impairment reversals have been charged in the year following those impairment reversals, was £776 million (2021: £104 million).
No individual intangible asset accounted for a material impairment.
The patent expiry dates of the Group’s most significant assets, where relevant, are set out on pages 282 to 284. Please refer to Note
2 to the Group’s accounting policy and estimate of the useful life for intangible assets over the exclusivity and non-exclusivity
periods.GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
20. Other intangible assets continued
Amortisation and impairment losses, net of reversals, have been charged in the income statement as follows:
Amortisation Net impairment losses
2022 2021(a) 2022 2021(a)
£m £m £m £m
Cost of sales 663 750 2 –
Selling, general and administration 116 126 66 65
Research and development 307 212 299 373
1,086 1,088 367 438
(a) The 2021 comparatives have been restated on a consistent basis from those previously published to reflect the demerger of the Consumer Healthcare business (see Note 41).
Licences, patents, amortised brands etc. includes a large number of acquired licences, patents, know-how agreements and
marketing rights, which are either marketed or in use, or still in development. Note 41, ‘Acquisitions and disposals’ gives details
of additions through business combinations in the year. The book values of the largest individual items are as follows:
2022 2021
£m £m
Tesaro Assets 2,858 2,677
Meningitis portfolio 1,855 1,889
Momelotinib 1,499 –
Affinivax Assets 1,473 –
Dolutegravir 1,150 1,093
Benlysta 541 644
Alector Assets 509 509
iTeos Assets 443 444
Shingrix 288 268
Okairos 202 191
BMS Assets 196 219
Spero 163 –
Vir Assets 159 212
Fluarix/FluLaval 147 180
Stiefel trade name 142 151
CureVac Assets 106 164
Lamisil(a) – 259
Others 1,932 1,797
13,663 10,697
(a) Disposed of as part of the Consumer Healthcare demerger (Note 41).
On 1 July 2022, GSK completed the acquisition of Sierra Oncology Inc, The main asset is momelotinib.
On 15 August 2022, GSK completed the acquisition of Affinivax, Inc.
Indefinite life brands related to healthcare brands used within the Consumer Healthcare business. Indefinite life brands were
disposed of as part of the Consumer Healthcare demerger (Note 41).
The Group do not consider that any reasonably possible changes in the key assumptions would cause the recoverable amount of
the Intangible assets disclosed above to fall below their carrying values.
GSK has assessed the qualitative and quantitative impact of climate related risks on asset recoverable amounts and concluded
that there are no material impairments.
212GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
213
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
21. Investments in associates and joint ventures
Joint 2022 Joint 2021
ventures Associates Total ventures Associates Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 12 76 88 15 349 364
Exchange adjustments 1 1 2 – (15) (15)
Additions – 1 1 – 1 1
Disposals – – – – (278) (278)
Distributions received – (6) (6) – (9) (9)
Net fair value movements through Other comprehensive income – (9) (9) – 28 28
Impairment of interest in associates – – – – (36) (36)
Profit/(loss) after tax recognised in the consolidated income (3) 1 (2) (3) 36 33
statement
At 31 December 10 64 74 12 76 88
On 20 May 2021, the Group agreed with Innoviva Inc to sell all of its shares in Innoviva back to Innoviva for £277 million. Following
settlement of the transaction, GSK no longer held any Innoviva stock. A loss of £46 million (including £10 million of recycling of
exchange differences in Innoviva) is presented in Loss on disposal of interest in associates in the 2021 Consolidated income
statement. The transaction did not include any changes in Innoviva’s commercial interest in royalties paid by GSK. Loss on disposal
of interest in associates in 2021 also includes a £10 million gain from a disposal of another immaterial associate.
Please refer to the Income statement information on associates and joint ventures in Note 13.
22. Current equity investments
Investments
measured at
FVTPL
2022
Current £m
At 1 January –
Exchange adjustments 2
Additions 3,852
Net fair value movements through profit or loss 233
At 31 December 4,087
Current equity investments represent Haleon plc shares held after the demerger of Consumer Healthcare. Shares are held for
trading and measured at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL) based on the Haleon plc share price. Changes in fair value after
the demerger are presented as Other operating income/expense in continuing operations. The Group’s investment in Haleon plc
at the end of December 2022 is held by Glaxo Group Limited (5.4%), Scottish Limited Partnerships (SLPs) which were set up to
collateralise agreed additional funding for GSK’s UK Defined Benefit pension schemes (7.5%) (Note 31) and the ESOP Trusts
(0.6%). Net fair value movement through profit or loss of £233 million includes a fair value gain of £229 million and £4 million of
other adjustments.GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
23. Other investments
Investments Investments
designated as Investments designated as Investments
measured at measured at measured at measured at
FVTOCI FVTPL 2022 FVTOCI FVTPL 2021
Non-current £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 1,927 199 2,126 2,939 121 3,060
Exchange adjustments 75 25 100 5 – 5
Additions 87 63 150 125 52 177
Net fair value movements through Other comprehensive income (716) – (716) (902) – (902)
Net fair value movements through profit or loss – 27 27 – 37 37
Disposals (220) – (220) (240) (11) (251)
At 31 December 1,153 314 1,467 1,927 199 2,126
Non-current other investments comprise non-current equity investments which are recorded at fair value at each balance sheet
date. For investments traded in an active market, the fair value is determined by reference to the relevant stock exchange quoted
bid price. For other investments, the fair value is estimated by management with reference to relevant available information,
including the current market value of similar instruments, recent financing rounds and discounted cash flows of the underlying net
assets. Movements arising on the translation of overseas net assets for consolidation into the Group accounts are recorded as
Exchange adjustments. Net fair value movements include the impact of other exchange gains of £134 million through Other
comprehensive income and £nil through profit or loss (2021: gains of £15 million through Other comprehensive income and £2
million through profit or loss). Other investments include listed investments of £823 million (2021: £1,736 million).
GSK has elected to designate the majority of its equity investments as measured at fair value through Other comprehensive
income (FVTOCI). The most significant of these investments held at 31 December 2022 were in Vir Biotechnology, Inc. which had a
fair value at 31 December 2022 of £180 million (2021: £266 million) and Nimbus Therapeutics, LLC which had a fair value at 31
December 2022 of £139 million (2021: £32 million). The fair value of the investment in CureVac N.V., disclosed as a significant
investment at 31 December 2021, was £75 million at 31 December 2022 (2021: £380 million). The other investments include equity
stakes in companies with which GSK has research collaborations and in companies which provide access to biotechnology
developments of potential interest.
On disposal of equity investments measured at FVTOCI, the accumulated fair value movements are reclassified from the fair
value reserve to retained earnings. Investments measured at FVTOCI with a fair value of £220 million (2021: £240 million) were
disposed of during the year. The cumulative gain on these investments after tax was £14 million (2021: £132 million).
Certain other investments, such as investments in funds with limited lives and investments acquired with an intention to sell, are
measured at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL).
214GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
215
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
24. Other non-current assets
2022 2021
£m £m
Amounts receivable under insurance contracts 857 849
Pension schemes in surplus 229 741
Other receivables 108 86
1,194 1,676
Amounts receivable under insurance contracts are held at cash surrender value with movements through profit or loss.
Within the other receivables of £108 million (2021: £86 million), £34 million (2021: £44 million) is classified as financial assets of
which £13 million (2021: £23 million) is classified as fair value through profit or loss. On the remaining balance of £21 million
(2021: £21 million), the expected credit loss allowance was immaterial at 31 December 2022 and 2021.
25. Inventories
2022 2021
£m £m
Raw materials and consumables 1,576 1,772
Work in progress 2,286 1,889
Finished goods 1,284 2,122
5,146 5,783
26. Trade and other receivables
2022 2021
£m £m
Trade receivables, net of loss allowance 5,452 6,246
Accrued income 19 12
Prepayments 343 315
Interest receivable 2 3
Employee loans and advances 11 18
Other receivables 1,226 1,266
7,053 7,860
There were no trade or other receivable balances (2021: £nil) due from associates and joint ventures. The most significant component of
other receivables comprises receivables for taxes other than corporate income tax. Other significant balances within other receivables are
royalties receivable and amounts receivable from collaboration partners.
2022 2021
Loss allowance - trade receivables
£m £m
At 1 January 150 151
Exchange adjustments 9 (3)
Charge for the year 35 52
Transfer to assets held for sale (60) –
Subsequent recoveries of amounts provided for (19) (39)
Utilised (24) (11)
At 31 December 91 150
Of the total trade receivables balance, £58 million (2021: £86 million) is considered credit impaired, against which a £26 million (2021: £4
million) expected credit loss allowance has been applied. No amount was purchased or originated credit impaired.
Within the other receivables of £1,226 million (2021: £1,266 million), £683 million (2021: £553 million) is classified as financial assets of which
£nil (2021: £nil) is classified as held at fair value through profit or loss. At 31 December 2022 an expected credit loss allowance of £6 million
(2021: £5 million) was recognised in respect of financial assets with no charge reported in profit or loss during the year.
For more discussion on credit risk practices, please refer to Note 44.GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
27. Cash and cash equivalents
2022 2021
£m £m
Cash at bank and in hand 879 1,427
Short-term deposits 2,844 2,847
3,723 4,274
During 2022 £1,421 million was transferred to assets held for sale relating to the Consumer Healthcare business that was
demerged during the year (see Note 41). Cash and cash equivalents included £0.2 billion (2021: £0.2 billion) not available for
general use due to restrictions applying in the subsidiaries where it is held. Restrictions include exchange controls and taxes on
repatriation.
28. Assets held for sale
2022 2021
£m £m
Property, plant and equipment 83 22
Other 15 –
98 22
Non-current assets and disposal groups are transferred to assets held for sale when it is expected that their carrying amounts
will be recovered principally through disposal and a sale is considered highly probable. They are held at the lower of carrying
amount and fair value less costs to sell.
In Q2 2022, the Consumer Healthcare business was classified as held for sale. Following completion of the demerger of the
Consumer Healthcare business in Q3 2022, a total of £12.9 billion of net assets and liabilities were distributed/derecognised as
part of the gain on the demerger.
216GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
217
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
29. Trade and other payables
2022 2021
£m £m
Trade payables 3,866 4,535
Wages and salaries 1,488 1,470
Social security 126 152
ViiV Healthcare put option 1,093 1,008
Other payables 418 518
Deferred income 299 307
Customer return and rebate accruals 6,627 6,322
Other accruals 2,346 3,242
16,263 17,554
Trade and other payables included £nil (2021: £nil) due to associates and joint ventures. The Group provides limited supplier
financing arrangements to certain customers. The amounts involved at 31 December 2022 were not material.
Revenue recognised in the year that was included in deferred income at 1 January 2022 was £85 million (2021: £29 million).
Customer return and rebate accruals are provided for by the Group at the point of sale in respect of estimated rebates, discounts
or allowances payable to customers as more fully described in the Group financial review on page 94. At 31 December 2022,
Customer return and rebate accruals included £5,717 million (2021: £5,044 million) in respect of US Commercial Operations.
Accruals are made at the time of sale but the actual amounts paid are based on claims made some time after the initial
recognition of the sale. As the amounts are estimated, they may not fully reflect the final outcome and are subject to change
dependent upon, amongst other things, the types of buying group and product sales mix. The level of accrual is reviewed and
adjusted quarterly in light of historical experience of actual amounts paid and any changes in arrangements. Future events could
cause the assumptions on which the accruals are based to change, which could affect the future results of the Group.
Pfizer’s put option over its shareholding in ViiV Healthcare is currently exercisable. Pfizer may request an IPO of ViiV Healthcare
at any time and if either GSK does not consent to such IPO or an offering is not completed within nine months, Pfizer could
require GSK to acquire its shareholding. The amount of the liability for this put option, which is held on the gross redemption
basis, is derived from an internal valuation of the ViiV Healthcare business, utilising both discounted forecast future cash flow
and multiples-based methodologies.
The table below shows on an indicative basis the income statement and balance sheet sensitivity of the Pfizer put option to
reasonably possible changes in key assumptions.
Increase/(decrease) in financial liability and loss/(gain) in Income statement 2022 2021 £m £m
10% increase in sales forecasts* 100 89
15% increase in sales forecasts* 149 133
10% decrease in sales forecasts* (99) (89)
15% decrease in sales forecast* (149) (134)
1% (100 basis points) increase in discount rate (32) (30)
1.50% (150 basis points) increase in discount rate (48) (45)
1% (100 basis points) decrease in discount rate 35 34
1.50% (150 basis points) decrease in discount rate 53 50
10 cent appreciation of US Dollar 66 55
15 cent appreciation of US Dollar 103 81
10 cent depreciation of US Dollar (56) (47)
15 cent depreciation of US Dollar (80) (64)
10 cent appreciation of Euro 29 26
15 cent appreciation of Euro 46 41
10 cent depreciation of Euro (24) (22)
15 cent depreciation of Euro (35) (32)
* The sales forecast is for ViiV Healthcare sales only in respect of the ViiV Healthcare put option.
Other accruals includes interest accrued on financial liabilities at amortised cost of £207 million (2021: £244 million).
An explanation of the accounting for ViiV Healthcare is set out on page 71.GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
30. Net debt
2022 2021
Listing exchange £m £m
Current assets:
Liquid investments 67 61
Cash and cash equivalents 3,723 4,274
3,790 4,335
Short-term borrowings:
Commercial paper (1,191) (252)
Bank loans, overdrafts and other (448) (550)
2.850% US$ US Medium Term Note 2022 New York Stock Exchange – (1,483)
2.875% US$ US Medium Term Note 2022 New York Stock Exchange – (1,113)
0.125% € European Medium Term Note 2023 London Stock Exchange (665) –
0.000% € European Medium Term Note 2023 London Stock Exchange (443) –
0.534% US$ Medium Term Note 2023 New York Stock Exchange (1,038) –
Lease liabilities (167) (203)
(3,952) (3,601)
Long-term borrowings:
2.800% US$ US Medium Term Note 2023 New York Stock Exchange – (926)
0.125% € Euro Medium Term Note 2023 London Stock Exchange – (629)
3.375% US$ US Medium Term Note 2023 New York Stock Exchange – (925)
0.000% US$ US Medium Term Note 2023 New York Stock Exchange – (204)
0.000% € Euro Medium Term Note 2023 London Stock Exchange – (420)
0.534% US$ US Medium Term Note 2023 New York Stock Exchange – (926)
3.000% US$ US Medium Term Note 2024 New York Stock Exchange (829) (739)
1.375% € Euro Medium Term Note 2024 London Stock Exchange (884) (836)
4.000% € Euro Medium Term Note 2025 London Stock Exchange (663) (627)
3.625% US$ US Medium Term Note 2025 New York Stock Exchange (827) (738)
1.000% € Euro Medium Term Note 2026 London Stock Exchange (620) (587)
1.250% € Euro Medium Term Note 2026 London Stock Exchange (885) (838)
3.000% € Euro Medium Term Note 2027 London Stock Exchange (442) –
3.375% £ Euro Medium Term Note 2027 London Stock Exchange (306) (595)
3.875% US$ US Medium Term Note 2028 New York Stock Exchange (1,450) (1,294)
1.250% £ Euro Medium Term Note 2028 London Stock Exchange (744) (743)
3.375% US$ US Medium Term Note 2029 New York Stock Exchange (822) (733)
1.375% € Euro Medium Term Note 2029 London Stock Exchange (441) (418)
1.750% € Euro Medium Term Note 2030 London Stock Exchange (663) (628)
3.125% € Euro Medium Term Note 2032 London Stock Exchange (616) –
5.250% £ Euro Medium Term Note 2033(1) London Stock Exchange (640) (984)
5.375% US$ US Medium Term Note 2034 London Stock Exchange (412) (368)
1.625% £ Euro Medium Term Note 2035 London Stock Exchange (744) (744)
6.375% US$ US Medium Term Note 2038 New York Stock Exchange (2,264) (2,022)
6.375% £ Euro Medium Term Note 2039(1) London Stock Exchange (695) (695)
5.250% £ Euro Medium Term Note 2042 London Stock Exchange (472) (987)
4.200% US$ US Medium Term Note 2043 New York Stock Exchange (408) (364)
4.250% £ Euro Medium Term Note 2045 London Stock Exchange (366) (789)
Other long-term borrowings (1) (1)
Lease liabilities (841) (812)
(17,035) (20,572)
Net debt (17,197) (19,838)
(1) Partially purchased and cancelled on 13 February 2023.
218GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
219
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
30. Net debt continued
Current assets
Liquid investments are classified as financial assets at amortised cost. At 31 December 2022, they included US Treasury Notes
and other government bonds. The effective interest rate on liquid investments at 31 December 2022 was approximately 0.1%
(2021: approximately 0.1%). Liquid investment balances at 31 December 2022 earning interest at floating rates amount to
£67 million (2021: £2 million). Liquid investment balances at 31 December 2022 earning interest at fixed rates amount to
£nil (2021: £59 million).
Balances reported within cash and cash equivalents have an original maturity of three months or less. The effective interest
rate on cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2022 was approximately 3.1% (2021: approximately 0.6%). Cash and cash
equivalents at 31 December 2022 earning interest at floating and fixed rates amounted to £3,441 million and £10 million
respectively (2021: £3,906 million and £39 million) and non-interest bearing holdings amounted to £272 million (2021: £329 million).
GSK’s policy regarding the credit quality of cash and cash equivalents is set out in Note 44, ‘Financial instruments and related
disclosures’.
Short-term borrowings
GSK has a $10 billion (£8.3 billion) US commercial paper programme, of which $900 million (£748 million) was in issue at 31 December
2022 (2021: $nil). GSK has a £5 billion Euro commercial paper programme, of which €500 million (£443 million) was in issue at
31 December 2022 (2021: €300 million (£252 million)). In February 2022 GSK cancelled the £1.9 billion three year and $2.5 billion
(£2.1 billion) 364 day committed facilities and replaced them with new revolving credit facilities of equivalent size with maturities in
September 2025 and September 2023 respectively. Post separation of the Consumer Healthcare business these facilities were
reduced to £1.6 billion and $2.2 billion (£1.8 billion) respectively.
The weighted average interest rate on commercial paper borrowings at 31 December 2022 was 3.5% (2021: -0.5%).
The weighted average interest rate on current bank loans and overdrafts at 31 December 2022 was 7.8% (2021: 7.9%).
The average effective pre-swap interest rate of notes classified as short-term at 31 December 2022 was 0.4% (2021: 3.0%).
Long-term borrowings
At the year-end, GSK had long-term borrowings of £17.0 billion (2021: £20.6 billion), of which £11.1 billion (2021: £11.7 billion) fell due
in more than five years.
During 2022, three bonds were repaid earlier than original maturity, those being the 2.800% US$ US Medium Term Note 2023,
the 3.375% US$ US Medium Term Note 2023 and the 0.000% US$ US Medium Term Note 2023. Also, during 2022 GSK undertook
a tender on outstanding Sterling Notes, repaying face values of £292 million on the 3.375% £ Euro Medium Term Note 2027, £350
million on the 5.250% £ Euro Medium Term Note 2033, £522 million on the 5.250% £ Euro Medium Term Note 2042 and £429
million on the 4.250% £ Euro Medium Term Note 2045.
The average effective pre-swap interest rate of all notes in issue at 31 December 2022 was approximately 3.5% (2021:
approximately 3.3%).
Long-term borrowings repayable after five years carry interest at effective rates between 1.4% and 6.4%, with repayment dates
ranging from 2027 to 2045.
Both effective rates exclude the impact of one-off premiums associated with the early repayment of the Sterling Notes.
Pledged assets
The Group held pledged investments in US Treasury Notes with a par value of $56 million (£47 million), (2021: $56 million
(£42 million)) as security against irrevocable letters of credit issued on the Group’s behalf in respect of the Group’s self-insurance
activity. Provisions in respect of self-insurance are included within the provisions for legal and other disputes discussed in Note 32,
‘Other provisions’.
Lease liabilities
The maturity analysis of discounted lease liabilities recognised on the Group balance sheet is as follows:
2022 2021
£m £m
Rental payments due within one year 167 203
Rental payments due between one and two years 201 185
Rental payments due between two and three years 127 120
Rental payments due between three and four years 97 93
Rental payments due between four and five years 80 73
Rental payments due after five years 336 341
Total lease liabilities 1,008 1,015GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
31. Pensions and other post-employment benefits
2022 2021(a) 2020(a)
Pension and other post-employment costs £m £m £m
UK pension schemes 114 185 239
US pension schemes 48 40 58
Other overseas pension schemes 154 153 170
Unfunded post-retirement healthcare schemes 53 37 (1)
369 415 466
Analysed as:
Funded defined benefit/hybrid pension schemes 152 231 318
Unfunded defined benefit pension schemes 31 23 30
Unfunded post-retirement healthcare schemes 53 37 (1)
Defined benefit schemes 236 291 347
Defined contribution pension schemes 133 124 119
369 415 466
The costs of the defined benefit pension and post-retirement healthcare schemes are charged in the income statement as follows:
2022 2021(a) 2020(a)
£m £m £m
Cost of sales 104 106 128
Selling, general and administration 90 136 167
Research and development 42 49 52
236 291 347
(a) The 2021 and 2020 comparatives have been restated on a consistent basis from those previously published to reflect the demerger of the Consumer Healthcare business
(see Note 41).
GSK entities operate pension arrangements which cover the Group’s material obligations to provide pensions to retired employees.
These arrangements have been developed in accordance with local practices in the countries concerned. Pension benefits can be
provided by state schemes; by defined contribution schemes, whereby retirement benefits are determined by the value of funds
arising from contributions paid in respect of each employee; or by defined benefit schemes, whereby retirement benefits are
based on employee pensionable remuneration and length of service.
Pension costs of defined benefit schemes for accounting purposes have been calculated using the projected unit credit method.
In certain countries pension benefits are provided on an unfunded basis, some administered by trustee companies. Formal,
independent, actuarial valuations of the Group’s main plans are undertaken regularly, normally at least every three years.
Remeasurement movements in the year are recognised through the statement of comprehensive income. Discount rates are
derived from AA rated corporate bond yields except in countries where there is no deep market in corporate bonds where
government bond yields are used. Discount rates are selected to reflect the term of the expected benefit payments. Projected
inflation rates and pension increases are long-term predictions based on the yield gap between long-term index-linked and fixed
interest Gilts. In the UK, mortality rates are determined by adjusting the SAPS S3 standard mortality tables to reflect recent
scheme experience. These rates are then projected to reflect improvements in life expectancy in line with the CMI 2021 projections
with a long-term rate of improvement of 1.0% per year for both males and females. In the US, mortality rates are calculated using
the PRI-2012 white collar table adjusted to reflect recent experience. These rates are projected using MP-2020 to allow for future
improvements in life expectancy.
220GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
221
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
31. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
The average life expectancy assumed now for an individual at the age of 60 and projected to apply in 2042 for an individual then
at the age of 60 is as follows:
UK US
Male Female Male Female
Years Years Years Years
Current 27.3 28.2 27.3 28.6
Projected for 2042 28.5 29.5 28.8 30.1
The assets of funded schemes are generally held in separately administered trusts, either as specific assets or as a proportion of a
general fund, or are insurance contracts. Assets are invested in different classes in order to maintain a balance between risk and
return. Investments are diversified to limit the financial effect of the failure of any individual investment. The physical asset
allocation strategy for three of the four UK plans is 36% in return-seeking assets and 64% in liability-matching assets. During 2019,
a buy-in insurance contract was purchased to cover substantially all of the obligations of the other UK plan. At 31 December 2022,
the value of the insurance contract was £402 million (2021: £570 million). The asset allocation of the US plans is currently set at
25% return-seeking assets and 75% liability-matching assets.
The pension plans are exposed to risk that arises because the estimated market value of the plans’ assets might decline, the
investment returns might reduce, or the estimated value of the plans’ liabilities might increase.
In line with the agreed mix of return-seeking assets to generate future returns and liability-matching assets to better match future
pension obligations, the Group has defined an overall long-term investment strategy for the plans, with investments across a
broad range of assets. The main market risks within the asset and hedging portfolio are against credit risk, interest rates, long-
term inflation, equities, property, currency and bank counterparty risk.
The plan liabilities are a series of future cash flows with relatively long duration. On an IAS 19 basis, these cash flows are sensitive to changes
in the expected long-term inflation rate and the discount rate (AA corporate bond yield curve) where an increase in long-term inflation
corresponds with an increase in the liabilities, and an increase in the discount rate corresponds with a decrease in the liabilities.
The interest rate risk and credit rate risk in the US are partially hedged. The targets are based on an accounting measure of the
plan liabilities.
For the UK plans, there is an interest rate and inflation hedging strategy in place. The targets are based on an economic measure
of the plan liabilities.
In the UK, the defined benefit pension schemes operated for the benefit of former Glaxo Wellcome employees and former
SmithKline Beecham employees remain separate. These schemes were closed to new entrants in 2001 and subsequent UK
employees are entitled to join a defined contribution scheme. In addition, the Group operates a number of post-retirement
healthcare schemes, the principal one of which is in the US.
Following a period of consultation with impacted employees, it was announced on 17 December 2020 that the UK defined benefit plans
would be closed to future accrual effective from 31 March 2022. As a result, post closure the accrued benefits of active participants will be
revalued in line with inflation (RPI for the legacy Glaxo Wellcome plans and CPI for the legacy SmithKline Beecham plans subject to the
relevant caps for each arrangement) rather than capped pay increases. In addition, all defined benefit plan participants who were still
active at 1 April 2022 received a defined pension contribution of £10,000 each. The effect of closure and the defined contribution
enhancement together resulted in a one-off cost of £74 million in 2020. As announced, the plan was closed to new entrants at 31 March
2022. From 1 April 2022, former defined benefits plans employees were transferred to the defined contribution plans.
It was announced on 9 September 2020 that the US cash balance pension plans would be closed to future accrual from 1 January 2021.
This change resulted in a credit of £56 million. On 1 June 2020 and 9 September 2020, two amendments were made to the retiree
healthcare plans in the US resulting in a credit of £55 million.
The Group has applied the following financial assumptions in assessing the defined benefit liabilities:
UK US Rest of World
2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020
% pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa
Rate of increase of future earnings n/a 2.00 2.00 n/a n/a n/a 3.40 2.90 2.60
Discount rate 4.80 2.00 1.40 5.30 2.70 2.30 3.40 1.10 0.60
Expected pension increases 3.10 3.20 2.80 n/a n/a n/a 2.40 2.30 2.10
Cash balance credit/conversion rate n/a n/a n/a 3.90 2.00 1.90 0.80 0.20 0.10
Inflation rate 3.10 3.20 2.80 2.50 2.25 2.00 2.30 1.90 1.30
Sensitivity analysis detailing the effect of changes in assumptions is provided on page 228. The analysis provided reflects the
assumption changes which have the most material impact on the results of the Group.GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
31. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
The amounts recorded in the income statement and statement of comprehensive income for the three years ended 31 December
2022 in relation to the defined benefit pension and post-retirement healthcare schemes were as follows:
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
UK US Rest of World Group Group
2022 £m £m £m £m £m
Amounts charged to operating profit
Current service cost 13 7 126 146 22
Past service cost 6 – – 6 –
Net interest cost (11) 20 9 18 32
Gains from settlements – – (22) (22) –
Expenses 14 21 – 35 (1)
22 48 113 183 53
Remeasurement gains/(losses) recorded in the statement of
comprehensive income(1) (1,169) 36 261 (872) 228
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
UK US Rest of World Group Group
2021(2) £m £m £m £m £m
Amounts charged to operating profit
Current service cost 53 9 119 181 17
Past service cost/(credit) 27 2 (10) 19 (3)
Net interest (income)/cost 3 18 7 28 22
Gains from settlements – – (2) (2) –
Expenses 15 12 2 29 –
98 41 116 255 36
Remeasurement gains/(losses) recorded in the statement of
comprehensive income 572 98 186 856 68
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
UK US Rest of World Group Group
2020(2) £m £m £m £m £m
Amounts charged to operating profit
Current service cost 58 72 125 255 22
Past service cost/(credit) 93 (49) 1 45 (53)
Net interest (income)/cost 3 23 8 34 36
Gains from settlements – 12 (7) 5 (6)
Expenses 9 – – 9 –
163 58 127 348 (1)
Remeasurement losses recorded in the statement of
comprehensive income 51 (96) (45) (90) (73)
The amounts included within past service costs in the UK included £6 million (2021(2): £26 million; 2020(2): £23 million) of
augmentation costs which arose from Major restructuring programmes, together with a charge of £nil (2021: £nil; 2020(2): £70 million)
in relation to the impact of the closure of the defined benefit schemes to future accrual.
In 2020, the past service credit of £49 million in the US reflected the closure of the cash balance pension plans from 1 January 2021.
Amendments to the retiree healthcare plan in the US in 2020(2) resulted in a credit of £53 million to past service costs in post-
retirement benefits in 2020.
(1) T hese numbers do not include remeasurement gains/(losses) related to the demerged Consumer Healthcare business.
(2) T he 2021 and 2020 comparatives have been restated on a consistent basis from those previously published to reflect the demerger of the Consumer Healthcare business
(see Note 41).
222GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
223
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
31. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
A summarised balance sheet presentation of the Group defined benefit pension schemes and other post-retirement benefits is set
out in the table below:
2022 2021 2020
£m £m £m
Recognised in Other non-current assets:
Pension schemes in surplus 229 741 183
Recognised in Pensions and other post-employment benefits:
Pension schemes in deficit (1,585) (1,870) (2,287)
Post-retirement benefits (994) (1,243) (1,363)
(2,579) (3,113) (3,650)
In the event of a plan wind-up, GSK believes the UK pension scheme rules provide the company with the right to a refund of
surplus assets following the full settlement of plan liabilities. As a result, the net surplus in the UK defined benefit pension schemes
is recognised in full.
The fair values of the assets and liabilities of the UK and US defined benefit pension schemes, together with aggregated data for
other defined benefit pension schemes in the Group are as follows:
UK US Rest of World Group
At 31 December 2022 £m £m £m £m
Equities: – listed 1,351 437 371 2,159
– unlisted – – 2 2
Multi-asset funds 1,101 – – 1,101
Property: – listed – – 19 19
– unlisted 464 140 1 605
Corporate bonds: – listed 1,692 779 124 2,595
– unlisted – – 15 15
Government bonds: – listed 4,048 723 558 5,329
Insurance contracts 1,003 – 691 1,694
Other (liabilities)/assets (645) 181 89 (375)
Fair value of assets 9,014 2,260 1,870 13,144
Present value of scheme obligations (9,117) (3,030) (2,353) (14,500)
Net surplus/(obligation) (103) (770) (483) (1,356)
Included in Other non-current assets 109 – 120 229
Included in Pensions and other post-employment benefits (212) (770) (603) (1,585)
(103) (770) (483) (1,356)
Actual return on plan assets (4,710) (253) (550) (5,513)
The multi-asset funds comprise investments in pooled investment vehicles that are invested across a range of asset classes,
increasing diversification within the growth portfolio. The value of funds in this asset class with a quoted market price is
£211 million (2021: £350 million).
The ‘Other (liabilities)/assets’ category comprises cash and mark to market values of derivative positions.
Index-linked gilts held as part of a UK repo programme are included in government bonds. The related loan of £2,376 million at
31 December 2022 (2021: £513 million; 2020: £650 million) is deducted within ‘Other assets’.GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
31. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
UK US Rest of World Group
At 31 December 2021 £m £m £m £m
Equities: – listed 3,954 522 731 5,207
– unlisted – – 4 4
Multi-asset funds 1,415 – – 1,415
Property: – listed – – 68 68
– unlisted 502 154 1 657
Corporate bonds: – listed 1,503 975 140 2,618
– unlisted – – 15 15
Government bonds: – listed 5,054 724 984 6,762
Insurance contracts 1,334 – 917 2,251
Other (liabilities)/assets (130) 149 72 91
Fair value of assets 13,632 2,524 2,932 19,088
Asset ceiling restrictions – – (26) (26)
Present value of scheme obligations (13,299) (3,248) (3,644) (20,191)
Net surplus/(obligation) 333 (724) (738) (1,129)
Included in Other non-current assets 606 – 135 741
Included in Pensions and other post-employment benefits (273) (724) (873) (1,870)
333 (724) (738) (1,129)
Actual return on plan assets 541 97 48 686
UK US Rest of World Group
At 31 December 2020 £m £m £m £m
Equities: – listed 2,686 539 686 3,911
– unlisted – – 5 5
Multi-asset funds 2,075 – – 2,075
Property: – listed – – 57 57
– unlisted 447 136 2 585
Corporate bonds: – listed 1,113 1,066 154 2,333
– unlisted – – 20 20
Government bonds: – listed 6,055 758 999 7,812
Insurance contracts 1,409 – 988 2,397
Other (liabilities)/assets (203) 136 78 11
Fair value of assets 13,582 2,635 2,989 19,206
Present value of scheme obligations (13,858) (3,445) (4,007) (21,310)
Net surplus/(obligation) (276) (810) (1,018) (2,104)
Included in Other non-current assets 77 – 106 183
Included in Pensions and other post-employment benefits (353) (810) (1,124) (2,287)
(276) (810) (1,018) (2,104)
Actual return on plan assets 1,092 159 177 1,428
224GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
225
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
31. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
UK US Rest of World Group Group
Movements in fair values of assets £m £m £m £m £m
Assets at 1 January 2020 12,981 2,789 2,662 18,432 –
Exchange adjustments – (86) 138 52 –
Interest income 256 87 29 372 –
Expenses (9) (12) – (21) –
Settlements and curtailments – – (20) (20) –
Remeasurement 836 72 148 1,056 –
Employer contributions 156 33 124 313 105
Scheme participants’ contributions 3 – 18 21 18
Benefits paid (641) (248) (110) (999) (123)
Assets at 31 December 2020 13,582 2,635 2,989 19,206 –
Exchange adjustments – 31 (184) (153) –
Interest income 187 57 18 262 –
Expenses (15) (12) – (27) –
Settlements and curtailments – – (7) (7) –
Remeasurement 354 40 30 424 –
Employer contributions 139 40 133 312 105
Scheme participants’ contributions 3 – 24 27 15
Benefits paid (618) (267) (97) (982) (120)
Assets at 31 December 2021 13,632 2,524 2,906 19,062 –
Exchange adjustments – 286 122 408 –
Interest income 271 71 28 370 –
Expenses (14) (21) – (35) –
Settlements and curtailments – – (8) (8) –
Remeasurement (4,981) (324) (578) (5,883) –
Employer contributions 755 50 114 919 117
Scheme participants’ contributions – – 15 15 18
Transfer to assets held for sale/distribution – – (624) (624) –
Benefits paid (649) (326) (105) (1,080) (135)
Assets at 31 December 2022 9,014 2,260 1,870 13,144 –
In connection with the demerger of Consumer Healthcare, the 31 December 2020 pension scheme valuations identified cash
funding or technical provisions deficits in three GSK UK Pension Schemes.
During March 2022, GSK transferred 7,004 GSK Consumer Healthcare Holdings Limited (GSKCHH) C Ordinary Shares
(representing 11.03%. (in aggregate) of GSK’s interest in GSKCHH to three Scottish Limited Partnerships (“SLPs”), each providing a
funding mechanism for a separate GSK UK defined benefit pension scheme. As part of the steps relating to the demerger and
separation, the SLPs transferred their applicable portion of GSKCHH C Ordinary Shares to Haleon plc (“Haleon”) in consideration
for shares in Haleon. The SLPs together hold shares representing 7.5% of the total issued share capital of Haleon.
Each pension scheme, through its SLP interest, is entitled to receive a distribution from that SLP in an amount equal to the net
proceeds of sales of Haleon shares, and to receive dividend income on the Haleon shares until it has received an aggregate
amount equal to an agreed threshold (“Proceeds Threshold”). The Proceeds Thresholds total £1,080 million (as increased by
notional interest on the remaining balance from time to time), and payment of this amount would fully fund the cash funding or
“technical provisions” deficits in the three pension schemes shown by the 31 December 2020 valuations. Once the applicable
Proceeds Threshold has been reached the GSK-controlled General Partner of each SLP is entitled to sell the remaining Haleon
shares held by the SLP and distribute the proceeds to GSK. If a pension scheme does not receive aggregate cash equal to the
applicable Proceeds Threshold within 18 months after separation, then the trustee of that pension scheme will have the ability to
require the SLP to instruct a broker to liquidate any remaining Haleon shares on behalf of the SLP in accordance with an agreed
mandate.
During 2022, the Group made additional funding contributions to the UK pension schemes of £691 million (2021: £44 million; 2020:
£76 million) but no additional funding (2021: £nil; 2020: £nil) to the US schemes.
As at 31 December 2022, total cash contributions totalling £735 million were made towards the Proceeds Thresholds leaving a
principal amount of £345 million outstanding to the UK pension schemes. The cash contributions of £735 million include voluntary
cash contributions made by GSK in Q4 2022 to two of the UK defined benefit pension schemes totalling £334 million in response to
the market volatility in the UK gilt markets.GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
31. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
The outstanding accelerated contributions were collateralised by the creation of three Scottish Limited Partnerships (SLPs), into
which GSK inserted a total of 692,593,037 Haleon ordinary shares across the three SLPs. Each of the three principal UK defined
benefit pension schemes (two benefiting current and former Glaxo Welcome employees, with the third benefiting current and
former SmithKline Beecham employees) has an interest in one of the SLPs as shown below:
Scottish Limited Partnership General Partner Limited Partners
GSK (No. 1) Scottish Limited Partnership GSK GP1 Ltd GSK LP Ltd Berkeley Square Pension Trustee Company Ltd acting
on behalf of the GSK Pension Scheme
GSK (No. 2) Scottish Limited Partnership GSK GP1 Ltd GSK LP Ltd Berkeley Square Pension Trustee Company Ltd acting
on behalf of the GSK Pension Fund
GSK (No. 3) Scottish Limited Partnership GSK GP2 Ltd GSK LP Ltd SmithKline Beecham Pension Plan Trustee Ltd acting on
behalf of the SmithKline Beecham Pension Plan
Under each of the SLP partnership agreements, the limited partners have no involvement in the management of the business
and shall not take any part in the control of SLP. The general partner (in all cases, controlled by GSK plc) is responsible for the
management and control of each SLP and, as such, each SLP is consolidated into the results of the Group. Each SLP therefore
takes advantage of the exemption in Regulation 7 of The Partnership (Accounts) Regulations 2008 Act to not prepare and deliver
audited accounts to the UK registrar.
Under the SLP partnership agreement, distributions will be made from partnership income to the defined benefit pension schemes
if equivalent payments have not already been made to the three defined benefit pension schemes by another GSK entity. To date,
£735 million has been paid to the defined benefit pension schemes by GSK under this structure and once contributions under this
structure reach £1,080 million, the defined benefit pension schemes interests’ in the SLPs ends. The remaining economic interest in
the SLPs will be held by GSK LP Ltd, a 100% owned subsidiary of GSK plc. At 31 December 2022, £345 million of these additional
contributions remains to be paid.
Employer contributions for 2023, excluding special funding contributions stated above, are estimated to be approximately
£350 million in respect of defined benefit pension schemes and £100 million in respect of post-retirement benefits.
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
UK US Rest of World Group Group
Movements in defined benefit obligations £m £m £m £m £m
Obligations at 1 January 2020 (13,293) (3,506) (3,554) (20,353) (1,418)
Exchange adjustments – 118 (188) (70) 36
Disposals – – – – 9
Service cost (61) (83) (147) (291) (36)
Past service cost (98) 56 (1) (43) 55
Interest cost (259) (110) (39) (408) (39)
Settlements and curtailments – – 38 38 7
Remeasurement (785) (168) (208) (1,161) (82)
Scheme participants’ contributions (3) – (18) (21) (18)
Benefits paid 641 248 110 999 123
Obligations at 31 December 2020 (13,858) (3,445) (4,007) (21,310) (1,363)
Exchange adjustments – (40) 258 218 4
Service cost (56) (9) (151) (216) (29)
Past service cost (28) (2) 25 (5) (12)
Interest cost (190) (76) (23) (289) (26)
Settlements and curtailments – – 17 17 –
Remeasurement 218 57 164 439 78
Scheme participants’ contributions (3) – (24) (27) (15)
Benefits paid 618 267 97 982 120
Obligations at 31 December 2021 (13,299) (3,248) (3,644) (20,191) (1,243)
Exchange adjustments – (371) (124) (495) (125)
Service cost (13) (7) (126) (146) (22)
Past service cost (6) – – (6) –
Interest cost (260) (91) (37) (388) (32)
Settlements and curtailments – – 29 29 –
Remeasurement 3,812 360 839 5,011 228
Scheme participants’ contributions – – (15) (15) (18)
Transfer to assets held for sale/distribution – – 621 621 83
Benefits paid 649 326 105 1,080 135
Obligations at 31 December 2022 (9,117) (3,031) (2,352) (14,500) (994)
226GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
227
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
31. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
The defined benefit pension obligation is analysed as follows:
2022 2021 2020
£m £m £m
Funded (13,887) (19,419) (20,504)
Unfunded (613) (772) (806)
(14,500) (20,191) (21,310)
The liability for the US post-retirement healthcare scheme has been assessed using the same assumptions as for the US pension
scheme, together with the assumption for future medical inflation of 7% (2021: 6.25%) in 2022, grading down to 5% in 2031 and
thereafter. At 31 December 2022, the US post-retirement healthcare scheme obligation was £870 million (2021: £1,059 million;
2020: £1,124 million). Post-retirement benefits are unfunded.
The movement in the net defined benefit liability is as follows:
2022 2021 2020
£m £m £m
At 1 January (1,129) (2,104) (1,921)
Exchange adjustments (87) 65 (18)
Service cost (146) (216) (291)
Past service cost (6) (5) (43)
Interest cost (18) (27) (36)
Settlements and curtailments 21 10 18
Remeasurements:
Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest (5,883) 424 1,056
(Loss)/gain from change in demographic assumptions 92 (62) 69
Gain/(loss) from change in financial assumptions 5,868 716 (1,340)
Experience (loss)/gain (949) (215) 110
Employer contributions 919 312 313
Transfer to assets held for sale/distribution (3) – –
Expenses (35) (27) (21)
At 31 December (1,356) (1,129) (2,104)
The remeasurements included within post-retirement benefits are detailed below:
2022 2021 2020
£m £m £m
Gain from change in demographic assumptions 21 19 7
Gain/(loss) from change in financial assumptions 219 35 (93)
Experience gains (12) 24 4
228 78 (82)
The defined benefit pension obligation analysed by membership category is as follows:
2022 2021(1) 2020(1)
£m £m £m
Active 1,390 4,196 4,660
Retired 8,540 11,115 11,257
Deferred 4,570 4,880 5,393
14,500 20,191 21,310
The post-retirement benefit obligation analysed by membership category is as follows:
2022 2021(1) 2020(1)
£m £m £m
Active 306 494 551
Retired 688 748 808
Deferred – 1 4
994 1,243 1,363
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is as follows:
2022 2021 2020
years years years
Pension benefits 12 15 16
Post-retirement benefits 10 12 12
(1) Membership numbers are not restated as the disclosure relates to the post-retirement benefit obligations.GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
31. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
Sensitivity analysis
The effect of changes in assumptions used on the benefit obligations and on the 2023 annual defined benefit pension and
post-retirement costs are detailed below. This information has been determined by taking into account the duration of the
liabilities and the overall profile of the plan memberships.
0.25% 0.25%
increase decrease
£m £m
Discount rate
(Decrease)/increase in annual pension cost (19) 19
Increase/(decrease) in annual post-retirement benefits cost 1 (1)
(Decrease)/increase in pension obligation (400) 424
(Decrease)/increase in post-retirement benefits obligation (21) 21
0.75% 0.75%
increase decrease
£m £m
(Decrease)/increase in annual pension cost (60) 52
Increase/(decrease) in annual post-retirement benefits cost 2 (3)
(Decrease)/increase in pension obligation (1,147) 1,341
(Decrease)/increase in post-retirement benefits obligation (61) 70
0.25% 0.25%
increase decrease
£m £m
Inflation rate
Increase/(decrease) in annual pension cost 17 (15)
Increase/(decrease) in pension obligation 301 (290)
0.75% 0.75%
increase decrease
£m £m
Increase/(decrease) in annual pension cost 50 (43)
Increase/(decrease) in pension obligation 945 (827)
1 year
increase
£m
Life expectancy
Increase in annual pension cost 22
Increase in annual post-retirement benefits cost 2
Increase in pension obligation 432
Increase in post-retirement benefits obligation 34
1%
increase
£m
Rate of future healthcare inflation
Increase in annual post-retirement benefits cost 1
Increase in post-retirement benefits obligation 25
228GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
229
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
32. Other provisions
Legal Major Employee
and other restructuring related Other
disputes programmes provisions provisions Total
£m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2022 196 652 322 301 1,471
Exchange adjustments 28 21 16 20 85
Charge for the year 145 144 125 141 555
Reversed unused (12) (131) (40) (78) (261)
Unwinding of discount 3 1 – – 4
Utilised (126) (277) (91) (45) (539)
Transfer to assets held for sale/distribution (16) (60) (22) (21) (119)
Additions through business combinations – 15 – 8 23
Reclassifications and other movements – (8) (1) (20) (29)
Transfer to Pension obligations – (6) – – (6)
At 31 December 2022 218 351 309 306 1,184
To be settled within one year 190 259 75 128 652
To be settled after one year 28 92 234 178 532
At 31 December 2022 218 351 309 306 1,184
Legal and other disputes It is in the nature of the Group’s business that a number of
these matters may be the subject of negotiation and litigation
The Group is involved in a substantial number of legal and
over many years. Litigation proceedings, including the various
other disputes, including notification of possible claims, as set
appeal procedures, often take many years to reach resolution,
out in Note 47, ‘Legal proceedings’. Provisions for legal and
and out-of-court settlement discussions can also often be
other disputes include amounts relating to product liability,
protracted. Indemnified disputes will result in a provision
anti-trust, government investigations, contract terminations
charge and a corresponding receivable.
and self insurance.
The Group is in potential settlement discussions in a number
The Group may become involved in significant legal
of the disputes for which amounts have been provided and,
proceedings in respect of which it is not possible to
based on its current assessment of the progress of these
meaningfully assess whether the outcome will result in a
disputes, estimates that £190 million of the amount provided
probable outflow, or to quantify or reliably estimate the liability,
at 31 December 2022 will be settled within one year. At
if any, that could result from ultimate resolution of the
31 December 2022, it was expected that £nil (2021: £4 million)
proceedings. In these cases, the Group would provide
of the provision made for legal and other disputes will be
appropriate disclosures about such cases, but no provision
reimbursed by third parties. For a discussion of legal issues,
would be made.
See Note 47, ‘Legal proceedings’.
The net charge for the year of £133 million (including reversals
Major restructuring programmes
and estimated insurance recoveries) primarily related to
provisions for product liability cases, commercial disputes and During 2022, the Group had two major restructuring
various other government investigations. programmes in progress: the Separation Preparation
programme which focused on preparing for the separation of
The discount on the provision is £3 million in 2022 (2021: £nil).
GSK into two new companies and the Significant Acquisitions
The discount was calculated using risk-adjusted projected
programme which is focused on the integration of recent
cash flows and risk-free rates of return.
acquisitions.
In respect of product liability claims related to certain
Restructuring provisions primarily include severance costs
products, provision is made when there is sufficient history of
when management has made a formal decision to eliminate
claims made and settlements to enable management to make
certain positions and this has been communicated to the
a reliable estimate of the provision required to cover
groups of employees affected and appropriate consultation
unasserted claims. The ultimate liability for such matters may
procedures completed, where appropriate. No provision is
vary from the amounts provided and is dependent upon the
made for staff severance payments that are paid immediately.
outcome of litigation proceedings, investigations and possible
settlement negotiations. The discount on the provisions increased by £1 million in 2022
(2021: increased by £2 million).
The Group’s position could change over time, and, therefore,
there can be no assurance that any losses that result from the Pension augmentation includes £6 million relating to the
outcome of any legal proceedings will not exceed by a defined benefit plan arising from staff redundancies, as shown
material amount the amount of the provisions reported in the in Note 30, ‘Pensions and other post-employment benefits’.
Group’s financial accounts.GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
Employee related provisions Given the nature of these provisions, the amounts are likely to
be settled over many years.
Employee related provisions include obligations for certain
medical benefits to disabled employees and their spouses in Other provisions
the US.
Included in other provisions are provisions for onerous
At 31 December 2022, the provision for these benefits contracts, insurance provisions and a number of other
amounted to £66 million (2021: £69 million). Other employee provisions including vehicle insurance and regulatory matters.
benefits reflect a variety of provisions for severance costs,
jubilee awards and other long-service benefits.
230GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
231
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
33. Contingent consideration liabilities
The consideration for certain acquisitions includes amounts contingent on future events such as development milestones or sales
performance. The Group has provided for the fair value of this contingent consideration as follows:
Shionogi-
ViiV Novartis
Healthcare Affinivax Vaccines Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2020 5,103 – 339 37 5,479
Remeasurement through income statement 1,114 – 161 – 1,275
Cash payments: operating cash flows (751) – (14) – (765)
Cash payments: investing activities (107) – (9) (4) (120)
At 31 December 2021 5,359 – 477 33 5,869
Remeasurement through income statement 1,026 – 32 5 1,063
Cash payments: operating cash flows (721) – (21) – (742)
Cash payments: investing activities (105) – (9) – (114)
At 31 December 2021 5,559 – 479 38 6,076
Remeasurement through income statement 1,431 17 231 (34) 1,645
Exchange movement through reserves – 2 – – 2
Initial recognition from business combinations – 482 – – 482
Cash payments: operating cash flows (1,031) – (27) – (1,058)
Cash payments: investing activities (69) – (10) – (79)
At 31 December 2022 5,890 501 673 4 7,068
Of the contingent consideration payable at 31 December 2022, £1,289 million (2021: £958 million) is expected to be paid within
one year.
The consideration payable for the acquisition of the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture, Affinivax and the Novartis Vaccines
business are expected to be paid over a number of years. As a result, the total estimated liabilities are discounted to their present
values, shown above. The Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare contingent consideration liability is discounted at 8% (2021: 8%), the Affinivax
contingent consideration liability is discounted at 9.9% and the Novartis Vaccines contingent consideration liability is discounted
at 7.5% (2021: 7.5%) for commercialised products and at 8.5% (2021: 8.5%) for pipeline assets.
The Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare and Novartis Vaccines contingent consideration liabilities are calculated principally based on the
forecast sales performance of specified products over the lives of those products.
The Affinivax contingent consideration is based upon two potential milestone payments, each of $0.6 billion (£0.5 billion) which
will be paid if certain pediatric clinical development milestones are achieved.
The table below shows on an indicative basis the income statement and balance sheet sensitivity to reasonably possible changes
in key inputs to the valuations of the contingent consideration liabilities.
2022 2021
Shionogi- Shionogi-
ViiV Novartis ViiV Novartis
Increase/(decrease) in financial liability Healthcare Affinivax Vaccines Healthcare Vaccines
and loss/(gain) in Income statement £m £m £m £m £m
10% increase in sales forecasts* 556 n/a 103 506 61
15% increase in sales forecasts* 834 n/a 154 759 92
10% decrease in sales forecasts* (555) n/a (103) (506) (57)
15% decrease in sales forecasts* (833) n/a (153) (759) (79)
1% increase in discount rate (199) (7) (55) (198) (38)
1.5% increase in discount rate (292) (10) (80) (286) (55)
1% decrease in discount rate 214 7 65 213 45
1.5% decrease in discount rate 328 11 101 319 70
10 cent appreciation of US Dollar 411 45 22 343 4
15 cent appreciation of US Dollar 645 71 36 495 10
10 cent depreciation of US Dollar (347) (38) (19) (299) (2)
15 cent depreciation of US Dollar (501) (56) (27) (398) (3)
10 cent appreciation of Euro 109 n/a 23 102 19
15 cent appreciation of Euro 171 n/a 36 160 30
10 cent depreciation of Euro (91) n/a (19) (85) (16)
15 cent depreciation of Euro (130) n/a (28) (124) (23)
10% increase in probability of milestone success n/a 82 20 n/a 17
10% decrease in probability of milestone success n/a (82) (10) n/a (8)
* The sales forecast is for ViiV Healthcare sales only in respect of the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare contingent consideration.
An explanation of the accounting for ViiV Healthcare is set out on page 71.GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
34. Other non-current liabilities
2022 2021
£m £m
Accruals 11 13
Deferred income 83 85
Other payables 805 823
899 921
Other payables includes a number of employee-related liabilities including employee savings plans.
35. Contingent liabilities
At 31 December 2022, contingent liabilities where GSK has a present obligation as a result of a past event, comprising guarantees
and other items arising in the normal course of business, amounted to £58 million (2021: £126 million). At 31 December 2022, £0.5
million (2021: £0.2 million) of financial assets were pledged as collateral for contingent liabilities. Provision is made for the outcome
of tax, legal and other disputes where it is both probable that the Group will suffer an outflow of funds and it is possible to make a
reliable estimate of that outflow. If it is not possible to meaningfully assess whether the outcomes will result in a probable outflow,
or to quantify or reliably estimate the liability, if any, no provision is recorded. Descriptions of the significant legal and other
disputes to which the Group is a party are set out in Note 47, ‘Legal proceedings’.
36. Commitments
2022 2021
Contractual obligations and commitments £m £m
Contracted for but not provided in the financial statements:
Intangible assets 10,659 12,082
Property, plant and equipment 743 616
Investments 138 146
Purchase commitments 161 484
Pensions and post-retirement benefits 345 44
Interest on loans 6,322 7,603
Future finance charges on leases 146 153
Lease contracts that have not yet commenced 395 60
18,909 21,188
The commitments related to intangible assets include milestone payments, which are dependent on successful clinical
development or on meeting specified sales targets, and which represent the maximum that would be paid if all milestones,
however unlikely, are achieved. The amounts are not risk-adjusted or discounted. The net decrease in intangible asset commitments
in 2022 is mainly attributable to the termination of certain agreements, offset by a number of new R&D collaborations including
collaborations with Spero Therapeutics, Inc., Wuxi Biologics Ireland Limited, SpringWorks Therapeutics, Inc. and Arrowhead
Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
In 2022, GSK reached an agreement with the trustees of the UK pension schemes to make additional contributions of £1,080
million, to eliminate the pension deficit identified at the 31 December 2020 actuarial funding valuation. Prior to the Consumer
Healthcare demerger, GSK agreed to collateralise this commitment and accelerate funding with additional contributions
(see Note 31). At 31 December 2022, £345 million of these additional contributions remained unpaid.
The Group also has other commitments which principally relate to revenue payments to be made under licences and other
alliances.
Commitments in respect of future interest payable on loans are disclosed before taking into account the effect of interest rate
swaps.
232GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
233
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
37. Share capital and share premium account
Share Consolidation
Following completion of the Consumer Healthcare business demerger on 18 July 2022, GSK plc Ordinary shares were consolidated to
maintain share price comparability before and after demerger. The consolidation was approved by GSK shareholders at a General
Meeting held on 6 July 2022. Shareholders received 4 new Ordinary shares with a nominal value of 31¼ pence each for every 5 existing
Ordinary share which had a nominal value of 25 pence each. Earnings per share, diluted earnings per share, adjusted earnings per
share and dividends per share were retrospectively adjusted to reflect the Share Consolidation in all the periods presented.
Ordinary shares of 25p each pre-share consolidation Share
Ordinary shares of 31¼p each post-share consolidation premium
Number £m £m
Share capital issued and fully paid:
At 1 January 2020 5,383,102,231 1,346 3,174
Issued under employee share schemes 2,087,386 – 29
Ordinary shares acquired by ESOP Trusts – – 78
At 31 December 2020 5,385,189,617 1,346 3,281
Issued under employee share schemes 1,825,442 1 20
Ordinary shares acquired by ESOP Trusts – – –
At 31 December 2021 5,387,015,059 1,347 3,301
Impact of share consolidation (1,077,403,011) – –
Issued under employee share schemes 1,731,293 – 25
Ordinary shares acquired by ESOP Trusts – – 114
At 31 December 2022 4,311,343,341 1,347 3,440
At 31 December 2022, of the issued share capital, 59,878,735 shares were held in the ESOP Trusts, 217,124,760 shares were held as
Treasury shares and 4,034,339,846 shares were in free issue. All issued shares are fully paid and there are no shares authorised
but not in issue. The nominal, carrying and market values of the shares held in the ESOP Trusts are disclosed in Note 45,
‘Employee share schemes’.
38. Movements in equity
Retained earnings and other reserves amounted to £5,811 million at 31 December 2022 (2021: £10,407 million; 2020: £9,960 million)
of which £463 million (2021: £476 million; 2020: £440 million) related to associates and joint ventures.
The cumulative translation exchange in equity is as follows:
Net translation exchange included in:
Non- Total
Retained Fair value controlling translation
earnings reserve interests exchange
£m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2020 (524) (1) (127) (652)
Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges (51) (8) (34) (93)
Reclassification of exchange movements on liquidation or disposal of overseas subsidiaries
and associates 36 – – 36
At 31 December 2020 (539) (9) (161) (709)
Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges (239) – (20) (259)
Reclassification of exchange movements on liquidation or disposal of overseas subsidiaries
and associates (25) – – (25)
At 31 December 2021 (803) (9) (181) (993)
Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges 109 4 (28) 85
Reclassification of exchange movements on liquidation or disposal of overseas subsidiaries
and associates 2 – – 2
Movement attributable to continuing operations (692) (5) (209) (906)
Movement attributable to discontinued operations(a) 263 – 112 375
At 31 December 2022 (429) (5) 97 (531)
(a) Includes £(554) million reclassification to the Consolidated income statement of exchange movements related to the demerger of the Consumer Healthcare business.GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
38. Movements in equity continued
The analysis of other comprehensive income by equity category is as follows:
Non-
Retained Other controlling
earnings reserves interests Total
2022 £m £m £m £m
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges 109 4 – 113
Reclassification of exchange movements on liquidation or disposal of subsidiaries
and associates 2 – – 2
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges – (18) – (18)
Tax on fair value movements on cash flow hedges – 9 – 9
Reclassification of cash flow hedges to income – 14 – 14
Items that will not be reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets of non-controlling interests – – (28) (28)
Fair value movements on equity investments – (754) – (754)
Tax on fair value movements on equity investments – 56 – 56
Remeasurement on defined benefit plans (786) – – (786)
Tax on remeasurement defined benefit plans 211 – – 211
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges – (6) – (6)
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year from continuing operations (464) (695) (28) (1,187)
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year from discontinued operations 375 (19) – 356
Total other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year (89) (714) (28) (831)
Non-
Retained Other controlling
earnings reserves interests Total
2021 £m £m £m £m
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges (239) – – (239)
Reclassification of exchange movements on liquidation or disposal of subsidiaries
and associates (25) – – (25)
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges – 5 – 5
Tax on fair value movements on cash flow hedges – (8) – (8)
Reclassification of cash flow hedges to income statement – 12 – 12
Items that will not be reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets of non-controlling interests – – (20) (20)
Fair value movements on equity investments – (911) – (911)
Tax on fair value movements on equity investments – 131 – 131
Remeasurement losses on defined benefit plans 941 – – 941
Tax on remeasurement defined benefit plans (223) – – (223)
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year 454 (771) (20) (337)
Non-
Retained Other controlling
earnings reserves interests Total
2020 £m £m £m £m
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges (51) (8) – (59)
Reclassification of exchange movements on liquidation or disposal of subsidiaries
and associates 36 – – 36
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges – (19) – (19)
Tax on fair value movements on cash flow hedges – (18) – (18)
Reclassification of cash flow hedges to income statement – 54 – 54
Items that will not be reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets of non-controlling interests – – (34) (34)
Fair value movements on equity investments – 1,348 – 1,348
Tax on fair value movements on equity investments – (220) – (220)
Remeasurement gains on defined benefit plans (187) – – (187)
Tax on remeasurement defined benefit plans 69 – – 69
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year (133) 1,137 (34) 970
Information on net investment hedges is provided in part (d) of Note 44 ‘Financial instruments and related disclosures’.
234GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
235
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
38. Movements in equity continued
The analysis of other reserves is as follows:
ESOP Trust Fair value Cash flow Other
shares reserve hedge reserve reserves Total
£m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2020 (135) 409 (48) 2,129 2,355
Exchange adjustments 20 – – – 20
Transferred to retained earnings in the year on disposal of equity investments – (207) – – (207)
Net fair value movement in the year – 1,100 17 – 1,117
Ordinary shares acquired by ESOP Trusts (609) – – – (609)
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts 529 – – – 529
At 31 December 2020 (195) 1,302 (31) 2,129 3,205
Exchange adjustments (1) – – – (1)
Transferred to income and expenses in the year on impairments of equity
investments 168 – – – 168
Transferred to retained earnings in the year on disposal of equity investments – (139) – – (139)
Net fair value movement in the year – (780) 10 – (770)
At 31 December 2021 (28) 383 (21) 2,129 2,463
Exchange adjustments (36) 28 12 – 4
Transferred to retained earnings in the year on disposal of equity investments – (21) 17 – (4)
Balances derecognised on demerger – – (169) – (169)
Net fair value movement in the year – (698) 141 – (557)
Ordinary shares acquired by ESOP Trusts (1,200) – – – (1,200)
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts 911 – – – 911
At 31 December 2022 (353) (308) (20) 2,129 1,448
Other reserves include various non-distributable merger and pre-merger reserves amounting to £1,849 million at 31 December 2022
(2021: £1,849 million; 2020: £1,849 million). Other reserves also include the capital redemption reserve created as a result of the share
buy-back programme amounting to £280 million at 31 December 2022 (2021: £280 million; 2020: £280 million).
39. Non-controlling interests
Total non-controlling interests includes the following individually material non-controlling interests. Other non-controlling interests
are individually not material.
ViiV Healthcare
GSK holds 78.3% of the ViiV Healthcare sub-group, giving rise to a material non-controlling interest. Summarised financial information
available at the latest practicable date in respect of the ViiV Healthcare sub-group is as follows:
2022 2021 2020
£m £m £m
Turnover 5,619 4,637 4,848
Profit after taxation 1,528 1,087 762
Other comprehensive income/(expense) 94 (17) 33
Total comprehensive income 1,622 1,070 795
2022 2021
£m £m
Non-current assets 2,716 2,796
Current assets 3,354 2,711
Total assets 6,070 5,507
Current liabilities (3,762) (3,121)
Non-current liabilities (8,983) (8,472)
Total liabilities (12,745) (11,593)
Net liabilities (6,675) (6,086)
2022 2021 2020
£m £m £m
Net cash inflow from operating activities 3,442 2,128 2,249
Net cash outflow from investing activities (174) (287) (294)
Net cash outflow from financing activities (2,718) (1,608) (2,483)
Increase/(decrease) in cash and bank overdrafts in the year 550 233 (528)GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
39. Non-controlling interests continued
The above financial information relates to the ViiV Healthcare group on a stand-alone basis, before the impact of Group-related
adjustments, primarily related to the recognition of preferential dividends. The profit after taxation of £1,528 million (2021: £1,087
million; 2020: £762 million) is stated after charging preferential dividends payable to GSK and Pfizer and after a charge of £1,483
million (2021: £1,218 million; 2020: £1,112 million) for remeasurement of contingent consideration payable. This consideration is
expected to be paid over a number of years.
The following amounts attributable to the ViiV Healthcare group are included in GSK’s financial statements:
2022 2021 2020
£m £m £m
Share of profit for the year attributable to non-controlling interest 415 196 223
Dividends paid to non-controlling interest 480 224 419
Non-controlling interest in the Consolidated balance sheet (611) (570) (539)
Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture
GSK held 68% of the Consumer Healthcare sub-group until the demerger on 18 July 2022 (see details in Note 41), giving rise to a
material non-controlling interest. Summarised financial information in respect of the Consumer Healthcare sub-group at 31
December 2021 is as follows:
2021
£m
Non-current assets 29,200
Current assets 5,251
Total assets 34,451
Current liabilities (4,238)
Non-current liabilities (3,733)
Total liabilities (7,971)
Net assets 26,480
The above financial information relates to the former Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture on a stand-alone basis, before the
impact of Group-related adjustments and the classification of cash pooling accounts with Group companies outside the
Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture but after Major restructuring charges.
The following amounts attributable to the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture were included in GSK’s financial statements
in prior years:
2021 2020
£m £m
Non-controlling interest in the Consolidated balance sheet 6,609 6,538
40. Related party transactions
At 31 December 2022, there were no loans due to GSK from related parties (2021: £4.6 million was due from Medicxi Ventures I LP).
Cash distributions were received from investment in Medicxi Ventures I LP of £6.0 million (2021: Medicxi Ventures I LP of £5.5
million, Longwood Founders Fund, LP of £3.0 million and Apollo Therapeutics LLP of £0.1 million).
As part of the joint venture agreement with Qura Therapeutics LLC, the Group has an obligation to fund the joint venture up to
April 2025, with both GSK and its joint venture partner committing financial support in the amount of £21.6 million. At December
2022, the outstanding liability due to Qura was £8.3 million (2021: £10.7 million).
The Group had no other significant related party transactions which might reasonably be expected to influence decisions made
by the users of these Financial Statements.
The aggregate compensation of the Directors and GLT is given in Note 9, ‘Employee costs’.
236GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
237
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
41. Acquisitions and disposals
Details of the acquisition and disposal of significant subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures and other businesses are given below:
2022
Business acquisitions
On 1 July 2022, GSK completed the acquisition of 100% of Sierra Oncology, Inc., a California-based, late-stage biopharmaceutical
company focused on targeted therapies for the treatment of rare forms of cancer, for $1.9 billion (£1.6 billion). The main asset is
momelotinib which targets the medical needs of myelofibrosis patients with anaemia. Total transaction costs were £52 million.
On 15 August 2022, GSK completed the acquisition of 100% of Affinivax, Inc. a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company based
in Cambridge, Boston, Massachusetts focused on pneumococcal vaccine candidates. The consideration for the acquisition
comprised an upfront payment of $2.2 billion (£1.8 billion) as adjusted for working capital acquired paid upon closing and two
potential milestone payments each of $0.6 billion (£0.5 billion) to be paid upon the achievement of certain paediatric clinical
development milestones. The estimated fair value of the contingent consideration payable was £482 million. The values are
provisional and are subject to change. The total transaction costs were £71 million.
Since acquisition, no sales arising from the Sierra Oncology or Affinivax businesses have been included in Group turnover and no
revenue is expected until regulatory approval is received on the acquired assets.
GSK continues to support the ongoing development of the acquired assets and consequently these assets will be loss making until
regulatory approval on these assets is received. The development of these assets has been integrated into the Group’s existing
R&D activities, so it is impracticable to quantify these development costs or the impact on Total profit after taxation for the period.
Goodwill of £1,127 million (£162 million for Sierra Oncology and £965 million for Affinivax), which is not expected to be deductible for
tax purposes, has been recognised. The goodwill represents workforce in place, and specific synergies available to GSK from the
business combinations. The goodwill has been allocated to the Group’s Commercial Operations and R&D segments, (refer to Note 19
‘Goodwill’ for allocation methodology).
Sierra
Oncology Affinivax Total
£m £m £m
Net assets acquired
Intangible assets 1,497 1,467 2,964
Property, plant and equipment – 30 30
Right of use assets 1 52 53
Inventory 60 – 60
Trade and other receivables 2 17 19
Cash and cash equivalents 175 109 284
Lease liabilities (1) (55) (56)
Trade and other payables (40) (77) (117)
Taxation (259) (236) (495)
1,435 1,307 2,742
Goodwill 162 965 1,127
Total 1,597 2,272 3,869
Total cash 1,597 1,790 3,387
Fair value of contingent consideration – 482 482
On 24 November 2022 GSK signed an agreement to buy out the 25% non-controlling interest in Glaxo Saudi Arabia Ltd for
SAR94 million (£21 million), to be paid in 2023.GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
41. Acquisitions and disposals continued
Demerger of Consumer Healthcare business
On 18 July 2022, GSK plc separated its Consumer Healthcare business from the GSK Group to form Haleon, an independent listed
company. The separation was effected by way of a demerger of 80.1% of GSK’s 68% holding in the Consumer Healthcare business to
GSK shareholders. Following the demerger, 54.5% of Haleon was held in aggregate by GSK shareholders, 6.0% remains held by GSK
(including shares received by GSK’s consolidated ESOP trusts) and 7.5% remains held by certain Scottish Limited Partnerships (SLPs) set
up to provide collateral for a funding mechanism pursuant to which GSK will provide additional funding for GSK’s UK defined benefit
pension schemes (Note 31). The aggregate ownership by GSK (including ownership by the ESOP trusts and SLPs) after the demerger of
13.5% was measured at fair value with changes through profit or loss. Pfizer continued to hold 32% of Haleon after the demerger.
Under IFRIC 17 ‘Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners’ a liability and an equity distribution are measured at the fair value of
the assets to be distributed when the dividend is appropriately authorised and it is no longer at the entity’s discretion. The liability
and equity movement, and associated gain on distribution were recognised in Q3 2022 when the demerger distribution was
authorised and occurred.
The asset distributed was the 54.5% ownership of the Consumer Healthcare business. The net carrying value of the Consumer
Healthcare business in the consolidated financial statements, including the retained 13.5% and net of the amount attributable to the
non-controlling interest, was approximately £11.0 billion at the end of June. GSK’s £6.3 billion share of the shareholder loans made in
Q1 2022 in advance of the pre-separation dividends was eliminated in the consolidated financial statements. The assets distributed
were reduced by Consumer Healthcare transactions up to 18 July that principally included pre-separation dividends declared and
settled after the end of Q2 2022 and before 18 July 2022. Those dividends included: £10.4 billion (£7.1 billion attributable to GSK) of
dividends funded by Consumer Healthcare debt that was partially on-lent during Q1 2022 and dividends of £0.6 billion (£0.4 billion
attributable to GSK) from available cash balances.
The fair value of the 54.5% ownership of the Consumer Healthcare business distributed was £15.5 billion. This was measured by
reference to the quoted average Haleon share price over the first five days of trading, this being a fair value measured with
observable inputs which was considered to be representative of the fair value at the distribution date. A gain on distribution of this
fair value less book value of the attributable net assets of the Consumer Healthcare business of £7.7 billion was recorded in the
Income Statement in 2022. There was an additional gain of £2.4 billion to remeasure the retained 13.5% from its book value to fair
value of £3.9 billion using the same fair value methodology as used for the distributed shares. The gain on distribution and on
remeasurement of the retained stake upon demerger was presented as part of discontinued operations. Any future gains or losses on
the retained stake in Haleon will be recognised in continuing operations. In addition, there was a reclassification of the Group’s share
of cumulative exchange differences arising on translation of the foreign currency net assets of the divested subsidiaries and
offsetting net investment hedges from reserves into the Income Statement of £0.6 billion. The total gain on demerger of Consumer
Healthcare was £10.1 billion. These transactions were presented in profit from discontinued operations in 2022.
2022
£m
Fair value of the Consumer Healthcare business distributed (54.5%) 15,526
Fair value of the retained ownership in Haleon plc (13.5%) 3,853
Total fair value 19,379
Carrying amount of the net assets and liabilities distributed/de-recognised (12,887)
Carrying amount of the non-controlling interest de-recognised 3,038
Gain on demerger before exchange movements and transaction costs 9,530
Reclassification of exchange movements and net investment hedge movements on disposal of overseas subsidiaries 554
Total gain on the demerger of Consumer Healthcare 10,084
238GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
239
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
41. Acquisitions and disposals continued
Consumer Healthcare was presented as a discontinued operation as at 30 June 2022 and disclosed as such in the interim financial
statements. The Consolidated Income Statement and Consolidated Cash Flow Statement distinguish discontinued operations from
continuing operations. Comparative figures have been restated on a consistent basis. Financial information relating to the operations
of Consumer Healthcare for the period is set out below and includes financial information until 18 July 2022.
This financial information differs both in purpose and basis of preparation from the Historical Financial Information and the
Interim Financial Information included in the Haleon prospectus and from that which will be published by Haleon on 2 March
2023. As a result, whilst the two sets of financial information are similar, they are not the same because of certain differences in
accounting and disclosure under IFRS.
2022 2021 2020
Total results £m £m £m
Turnover 5,581 9,418 9,745
Expense (4,730) (7,575) (7,947)
Profit before tax 851 1,843 1,798
Taxation (235) (263) (513)
Tax rate % 27.6% 14.3% 28.5%
(Loss)/profit after taxation from discontinued operations: Consumer Healthcare 616 1,580 1,285
Other gains/(losses) on demerger 2,433 – –
Remeasurement of discontinued operations distributed to shareholders on demerger 7,651 – –
Profit after taxation on demerger of discontinued operations 10,700 1,580 1,285
Non-controlling interest in discontinued operations 205 511 409
Earnings attributable to shareholders from discontinued operations 10,495 1,069 876
Earnings per share from discontinued operations 260.6p 26.7p 22.0p
Other business disposals
There were no other material business disposals in 2022.
Business Business
Business disposals disposals
Cash flows
acquisitions - demerger - other
£m £m £m
Cash consideration (3,392) – –
Net deferred consideration paid – – (34)
Cash and cash equivalents (divested)/acquired 284 (933) (9)
(3,108) (933) (43)
Transaction costs paid (79) (141) –
Cash (outflow)/inflow (3,187) (1,074) (43)
Cash consideration for business acquisitions included £5 million related to other business acquisition activity.
2021
Business acquisitions
GSK completed no material business acquisitions in 2021.
Business disposals
GSK made a number of business disposals for net cash consideration received in the year of £10 million. The profit on the disposal
of the businesses in the year of £24 million was calculated as follows:
Total
£m
Consideration:
Cash consideration including currency forwards, purchase adjustments and deferred consideration 10
Total 10
Net assets sold:
Property, plant and equipment 3
Cash and cash equivalents 1
Other net assets 1
Total 5
Costs:
Deal costs (16)
Reclassification of exchange from other comprehensive income 35
Gain on disposals in 2021 24GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
41. Acquisitions and disposals continued
Associates and joint ventures
On 20 May 2021 GSK agreed with Innoviva, Inc. (“Innoviva”) to sell all of its approximately 32 million shares of common stock of
Innoviva back to Innoviva at a price of $12.25 per share, raising gross proceeds of approximately $392 million. Following settlement
of the transaction, GSK will no longer hold any Innoviva stock. See details in Note 21 ‘Investment in associates and joint ventures’.
Cash flows
Associates
and joint
Business ventures
disposals disposals
£m £m
Cash consideration received 43 277
Net deferred consideration paid (51) –
Transaction costs (8) –
Cash and cash equivalents (divested)/acquired (1) –
Cash (outflow)/inflow (17) 277
2020
Business acquisitions
GSK completed one smaller business acquisition when it acquired 55% of Pfizer Biotech Corporation Taiwan, a part of Pfizer’s
consumer healthcare business, which was not previously recognised as part of the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture, on
28 September 2020 for non cash consideration of £129 million. This represented goodwill of £124 million, cash of £21 million
and other assets acquired of £18 million less non-controlling interest of £14 million and net liabilities of £20 million.
Total
£m
Net assets acquired:
Intangible assets 2
Property, plant and equipment 5
Inventory 5
Trade and other receivables 6
Cash and cash equivalents 21
Trade and other payables (20)
19
Non-controlling interest (14)
Goodwill 124
129
Non-cash consideration (settlement of a promissory note) 129
Total consideration 129
Business disposals
On 1 April 2020, GSK completed its divestment of Horlicks and other Consumer Healthcare nutrition products in India and a
number of other countries (excluding Bangladesh) to Unilever and the merger of GSK’s Indian listed Consumer Healthcare entity
with Hindustan Unilever, an Indian listed public company. GSK received a 5.7% equity stake in Hindustan Unilever and £395
million in cash. GSK disposed of its equity stake in Hindustan Unilever during May 2020.
The divestment in Bangladesh closed on 30 June 2020. Total cash consideration received was £177 million.
The cash divested as part of the disposal of the India and Bangladesh Consumer Healthcare entities was £478 million.
240GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
241
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
41. Acquisitions and disposals continued
The profit on the disposal of the businesses in the year of £2,795 million was calculated as follows:
Horlicks
divestment Other(1) Total
£m £m £m
Consideration:
Cash consideration receivable including currency forwards and purchase adjustments 492 157 649
Equity investment in Hindustan Unilever Limited 3,124 – 3,124
Total 3,616 157 3,773
Net assets disposed:
Goodwill 142 1 143
Intangible assets 15 103 118
Property, plant and equipment 56 12 68
Inventory – 6 6
Cash and cash equivalents 478 3 481
Other net (liabilities)/assets (155) 1 (154)
Total 536 126 662
Costs:
Transaction costs 12 28 40
Derivative 240 – 240
Reclassification of exchange from other comprehensive income 36 – 36
Total 288 28 316
Gain on disposals 2,792 3 2,795
The exposure to share price movements embedded in the agreement to merge GSK’s Indian listed Consumer Healthcare entity
with Hindustan Unilever Limited as part of the divestment of Horlicks and other nutrition products in India and a number of other
countries was recognised as a derivative between signing of the agreement in 2018 and completion of the transaction in 2020.
£240 million is recorded as a cost in the table above for the derecognition of the derivative asset. This largely reflects fair value
gains recognised in the Income Statement in prior periods.
Associates and joint ventures
During the year, GSK made investments into associates of £4 million and £4 million was paid in cash.
Associates
and joint
Cash flows Business Business ventures
acquisitions disposals investments
£m £m £m
Cash consideration received/(paid) – 786 (4)
Net deferred consideration – (19) –
Transaction costs (6) (27) –
Cash and cash equivalents acquired/(divested) 21 (481) –
Cash (outflow)/inflow 15 259 (4)
(1) Other includes Consumer Healthcare disposals where the income statement impact is not restated.GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
42. A djustments reconciling Total profit after tax to operating
cash flows
2022 2021(1) 2020(1)
£m £m £m
Total profit after tax from continuing operations 4,921 3,516 5,103
Tax on profits 707 83 67
Share of after-tax profits of associates and joint ventures 2 (33) (33)
Finance expense net of finance income 803 755 842
Depreciation 1,061 1,034 1,004
Amortisation of intangible assets 1,086 1,088 1,046
Impairment and assets written off 481 529 684
Profit on sale of businesses (36) (47) (2,815)
Profit on sale of intangible assets (185) (539) (279)
Loss on sale of investments in associates – 36 –
Profit on sale of equity investments (1) (8) (69)
Changes in working capital:
Decrease/(increase)in inventories (269) 51 100
Increase in trade receivables (158) (780) (279)
Increase in trade payables 494 229 132
(Increase) in other receivables (458) (382) (349)
Contingent consideration paid (see Note 33) (1,058) (742) (765)
Other non-cash increase in contingent consideration liabilities 1,628 1,063 1,275
Increase in other payables (5) 1,505 885
Increase/(decrease) in pension and other provisions (962) (299) 428
Share-based incentive plans 346 343 337
Fair value adjustments (283) (31) 373
Other (170) (122) (13)
Operating cash flow from continuing operations 7,944 7,249 7,674
Operating cash flow from discontinued operations 932 1,994 2,422
Total cash generated from operations 8,876 9,243 10,096
(1) The 2021 and 2020 comparatives have been restated on a consistent basis from those previously published to reflect the demerger of the Consumer Healthcare business
(see Note 41).
242GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
243
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
43. Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt
2022 2021 2020
£m £m £m
Net debt, at beginning of year, as adjusted (19,838) (20,780) (25,215)
Increase in cash and bank overdrafts (7,597) (2,504) (1,579)
Increase/(decrease) in liquid investments (1) (18) 1
Increase in long-term loans (1,025) – (3,298)
Repayment of short-term Notes 5,074 2,304 3,738
Repayment of/(increase in) other short-term loans (1,021) (301) 3,594
Repayment of medium term notes (MTNs) 1,594 – –
Repayment of lease liabilities 202 181 182
Debt of subsidiary undertakings acquired (24) – –
Exchange adjustments (1,531) 314 (128)
Other non-cash movements (207) (134) (102)
Decrease/(increase) in net debt from continuing operations (4,536) (158) 2,408
Decrease/(increase) in net debt from discontinued operations 7,177 1,100 2,027
Total net debt at end of year (17,197) (19,838) (20,780)
At
At 1 January Interest Change Reclass- 31 December
2022 Exchange Other expense in fair value ifications Demerger Cash flow 2022
Analysis of changes in net debt £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Liquid investments 61 7 – – – – (1) 67
Cash and cash equivalents 3,861 99 1 – – – 7,496 (7,734) 3,723
Overdrafts (450) 15 – – – – – 137 (298)
Liquid investments attributed to
continuing operations 3,411 114 1 – – – 7,496 (7,597) 3,425
Liquid investments attributed to
discontinued operations 407 37 – – – – (7,496) 7,052 –
3,818 151 1 – – – – (545) 3,425
Debt due within one year:
Commercial paper (252) (30) – – – – – (909) (1,191)
European/US MTN & Bank facilities (2,596) (174) – – – (4,426) – 5,050 (2,146)
Lease liabilities (173) (14) 5 – – (186) – 201 (167)
Other (52) (2) (9) – – – – (87) (150)
Debt due within one year attributed to
continuing operations (3,073) (220) (4) – – (4,612) – 4,255 (3,654)
Debt due within one year attributed to
discontinued operations (72) (3) (15) – – (3) 1,559 (1,466) –
(3,145) (223) (19) – – (4,615) 1,559 2,789 (3,654)
Debt due after one year:
European/US MTN & Bank facilities (19,760) (1,386) – (43) – 4,426 – 569 (16,194)
Lease liabilities (725) (59) (243) – – 186 – – (841)
Debt due after one year attributed to
continuing operations (20,485) (1,445) (243) (43) – 4,612 – 569 (17,035)
Debt due after one year attributed to
discontinued operations (87) (777) (6) (4) 48 3 10,059 (9,236) –
(20,572) (2,222) (249) (47) 48 4,615 10,059 (8,667) (17,035)
Net debt (19,838) (2,287) (267) (47) 48 – 11,618 (6,424) (17,197)
Interest payable (244) (5) (33) (865) – – 92 848 (207)
Derivative financial instruments (22) – – – 670 – – (640) 8
Total liabilities from financing activities* (23,983) (2,450) (301) (912) 718 – 11,710 (5,670) (20,888)
* Excluding cash and cash equivalents, overdrafts and liquid investments.GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
43. Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt continued
At
At 1 January Interest Change Reclass- 31 December
2021 Exchange Other expense in fair value ifications Cash flow 2021
Analysis of changes in net debt £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Liquid investments 78 1 – – – – (18) 61
Cash and cash equivalents 6,292 (29) (1) – – – (1,988) 4,274
Overdrafts (1,030) – – – – – 574 (456)
5,262 (29) (1) – – – (1,414) 3,818
Debt due within one year:
Commercial paper (17) 8 – – – – (243) (252)
European/US MTN & Bank facilities (2,350) 1 – – – (2,494) 2,247 (2,596)
Lease liabilities (230) 5 7 – – (200) 215 (203)
Other (98) 15 (2) – – – (9) (94)
(2,695) 29 5 – – (2,694) 2,210 (3,145)
Debt due after one year:
European/US MTN & Bank facilities (22,538) 306 – (22) – 2,494 – (19,760)
Lease liabilities (887) 7 (132) – – 200 – (812)
(23,425) 313 (132) (22) – 2,694 – (20,572)
Net debt (20,780) 314 (128) (22) – – 778 (19,838)
Interest payable (247) – (30) (753) – – 786 (244)
Derivative financial instruments (74) – – – 72 – (20) (22)
Total liabilities from financing activities* (26,441) 342 (157) (775) 72 – 2,976 (23,983)
* Excluding cash and cash equivalents, overdrafts and liquid investments.
For further information on significant changes in net debt see Note 30, ‘Net debt’.
244GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
245
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
44. Financial instruments and related disclosures
The objective of GSK’s Treasury activities is to minimise the GSK has access to short-term finance under a $10 billion
post-tax net cost of financial operations and reduce its (£8.3 billion) US commercial paper programme; $900 million
volatility to benefit earnings and cash flows. GSK uses a variety (£748 million) was in issue at 31 December 2022 (2021: $nil).
of financial instruments to finance its operations and derivative GSK has access to short-term finance under a £5 billion Euro
financial instruments to manage market risks from these commercial paper programme; €500 million (£443 million)
operations. Derivatives principally comprise foreign exchange was in issue at 31 December 2022 (2021: €300 million (£252
forward contracts and swaps which are used to swap million)). In February 2022 GSK cancelled the £1.9 billion three
borrowings and liquid assets into currencies required for Group year and $2.5 billion (£2.1 billion) 364 day committed facilities
purposes as well as interest rate swaps which are used to and replaced them with new revolving credit facilities of
manage exposure to financial risks from changes in interest equivalent size with maturities of September 2025 and
rates. These financial instruments reduce the uncertainty of September 2023 respectively. Post separation of the Consumer
foreign currency transactions and interest payments. Healthcare business these facilities were reduced to
£1.6 billion and $2.2 billion (£1.8 billion) respectively.
Derivatives are used exclusively for hedging purposes in
relation to underlying business activities and not as trading or These committed facilities were undrawn at 31 December
speculative instruments. 2022. GSK considers this level of committed facilities to be
adequate, given current liquidity requirements.
Capital management
GSK has a £20.0 billion Euro Medium Term Note programme
GSK’s financial strategy supports the Group’s strategic priorities and at 31 December 2022, £10.3 billion of notes were in issue
and is regularly reviewed by the Board. GSK manages the under this programme. The Group also had $9.7 billion
capital structure of the Group through an appropriate mix of (£8.1 billion) of notes in issue at 31 December 2022 under a US
debt and equity. shelf registration. GSK is currently in the process of renewing its
The capital structure of the Group consists of net debt of US shelf registration statement in order to maintain access to
£17.2 billion (see Note 30, ‘Net debt’) and total equity, including the US debt markets. GSK’s borrowings mature at dates
items related to non-controlling interests, of £10.1 billion (see between 2023 and 2045.
‘Consolidated statement of changes in equity’ on page 184). The put option owned by Pfizer in ViiV Healthcare is
Total capital, including that provided by non-controlling exercisable. In reviewing liquidity requirements GSK considers
interests, is £27.3 billion. that sufficient financing options are available should the put
The Group continues to manage its financial policies to a credit option be exercised.
profile that particularly targets short-term credit ratings of A-1
and P-1 while maintaining single A long-term ratings consistent Market risk
with those targets. The Group’s long-term credit rating with Interest rate risk management
Standard & Poor’s is A (stable outlook) and with Moody’s GSK’s objective is to minimise the effective net interest cost and
Investor Services (‘Moody’s’) it is A2 (stable outlook). The to balance the mix of debt at fixed and floating rates over time.
Group’s short-term credit ratings are A-1 and P-1 with Standard
The Group’s main interest rate risk arises from borrowings and
& Poor’s and Moody’s respectively.
investments with floating rates and refinancing of maturing
fixed rate debt where any changes in interest rates will affect
Liquidity risk management
future cash flows or the fair values of financial instruments. The
GSK’s policy is to borrow centrally in order to meet anticipated
policy on interest rate risk management limits the net amount
funding requirements. The strategy is to diversify liquidity
of floating rate debt to a specific cap, reviewed and agreed no
sources using a range of facilities and to maintain broad
less than annually by the Board.
access to financial markets. Each day, we sweep cash to or
from a number of global subsidiaries and central Treasury The majority of debt is issued at fixed interest rates and
accounts for liquidity management purposes. GSK utilises both changes in the floating rates of interest do not significantly
physical and notional cash pool arrangements as appropriate affect the Group’s net interest charge. Short-term borrowings
by location and currency. For notional cash pools, liquidity is including bank facilities are exposed to the risk of future
drawn against foreign currency balances to provide both local changes in market interest rates as are the majority of cash
funding and central liquidity as required and with balances and liquid investments.
actively managed and maintained to appropriate levels. As
balances in notional pooling arrangements are not settled
across currencies, gross cash and overdraft balances are
reported.
At 31 December 2022, GSK had £4 billion of borrowings
repayable within one year and held £3.8 billion of cash and
cash equivalents and liquid investments of which £3.1 billion
was held centrally.GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
44. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Foreign exchange risk management Treasury-related credit risk
The Group’s objective is to minimise the exposure of overseas GSK sets global counterparty limits for each of GSK’s banking
operating subsidiaries to transaction risk by matching local and investment counterparties based on long-term credit
currency income with local currency costs where possible. ratings from Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s. Usage of these
Foreign currency transaction exposures arising on external limits is actively monitored.
and internal trade flows are selectively hedged. GSK’s internal
GSK actively manages its exposure to credit risk, reducing
trading transactions are matched centrally and inter-company
surplus cash balances wherever possible. This is part of GSK’s
payment terms are managed to reduce foreign currency risk.
strategy to regionalise cash management and to concentrate
Where possible, GSK manages the cash surpluses or borrowing
cash centrally as much as possible. The table below sets out
requirements of subsidiary companies centrally using forward
the credit exposure to counterparties by rating for liquid
contracts to hedge future repayments back into the originating
investments, cash and cash equivalents and derivatives.
currency.
The gross asset position on each derivative contract is
In order to reduce foreign currency translation exposure, the
considered for the purpose of this table, although, under ISDA
Group seeks to denominate borrowings in the currencies of our
agreements, the amount at risk is the net position with each
principal assets and cash flows. These are primarily
counterparty. Table (e) on page 257 sets out the Group’s
denominated in US Dollars, Euros and Sterling. Borrowings can
financial assets and liabilities on an offset basis.
be swapped into other currencies as required.
Borrowings denominated in, or swapped into, foreign
currencies that match investments in overseas Group assets
may be treated as a hedge against the relevant assets.
Forward contracts in major currencies are also used to reduce
exposure to the Group’s investment in overseas assets (see ‘Net
investment hedges’ section of this note for further details).
Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will default on its
contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group
and arises on cash and cash equivalents and favourable
derivative financial instruments held with banks and financial
institutions as well as credit exposures to wholesale and retail
customers, including outstanding receivables.
The Group considers its maximum credit risk at 31 December
2022 to be £10,180 million (31 December 2021: £11,417 million)
which is the total of the Group’s financial assets with the
exception of ’Other investments’ (comprising equity
investments) which bear equity risk rather than credit risk. See
page 249 for details on the Group’s total financial assets. At 31
December 2022, GSK’s greatest concentration of credit risk
was £1.1 billion with a wholesaler in the US (2021: £0.9 billion
with a wholesaler in the US). See page 247 for further
information on the Group’s credit risk exposure in respect of the
three largest US wholesaler customers.
There has been no change in the estimation techniques or
significant assumptions made during the current reporting
period in assessing the loss allowance for financial assets at
amortised cost or at FVTOCI since the adoption of IFRS 9 at
the start of the 2018 reporting period.
246GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
247
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
44. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
At 31 December 2022, £60 million (2021: £54 million) of cash is categorised as held with unrated or sub-investment grade rated
counterparties (lower than BBB-/Baa3) of which £nil (2021: £7 million) is cash in transit. The remaining exposure is concentrated in
overseas banks used for local cash management or investment purposes, including: £23 million in Nigeria held with United Bank for
Africa, Zenith Bank, Access Bank and Stanbic IBTC Bank; £14 million with Halk Bank in the UK; £6 million with Produbanco in Ecuador;
£2 million with J Trust Royal Bank in Cambodia; £2 million with Banco Do Brasil in Brazil; £1 million with Banco de Honduras in Honduras;
and £1 million with BAC San José in Costa Rica. Of the £49 million of bank balances and deposits held with BBB/Baa rated
counterparties, £1.4 million was held with BBB-/Baa3 rated counterparties, including balances or deposits of £1 million with State Bank
of India in India. These banks are used for local investment purposes.
GSK measures expected credit losses over cash and cash equivalents as a function of individual counterparty credit ratings and
associated 12 month default rates. Expected credit losses over cash and cash equivalents and third-party financial derivatives are
deemed to be immaterial and no such loss has been experienced during 2022.
Credit ratings are assigned by Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s respectively. Where the opinions of the two rating agencies differ, GSK
assigns the lower rating of the two to the counterparty. Where local rating agency or Fitch data is the only source available, the
ratings are converted to global ratings equivalent to those of Standard & Poor’s or Moody’s using published conversion tables. These
credit ratings form the basis of the assessment of the expected credit loss on Treasury-related balances held at amortised cost being
bank balances and deposits and Government securities.
BB+/Ba1
and below
AAA/Aaa AA/Aa A/A BBB/Baa /unrated Total
2022 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Bank balances and deposits – – 1,215 49 60 1,324
US Treasury and Treasury repo only money market funds 146 – – – – 146
Liquidity funds 2,253 – – – – 2,253
Government securities – 67 – – – 67
Third party financial derivatives – – 188 – – 188
Total 2,399 67 1,403 49 60 3,978
BB+/Ba1
and below
AAA/Aaa AA/Aa A/A BBB/Baa /unrated Total
2021 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Bank balances and deposits – 7 2,687 77 54 2,825
US Treasury and Treasury repo only money market funds 54 – – – – 54
Liquidity funds 1,395 – – – – 1,395
Government securities – 60 – 1 – 61
Third party financial derivatives – – 200 – – 200
Total 1,449 67 2,887 78 54 4,535
GSK’s centrally managed cash reserves amounted to £3.1 billion This concentration of trade receivables is reflective of standard
at 31 December 2022, all available within three months. This market practice in the US pharmaceuticals sector where a
includes £2.2 billion of cash managed by the Group for ViiV significant portion of sales are made to these three wholesalers,
Healthcare, a 78.3% owned subsidiary. The Group has invested as disclosed in Note 6. GSK’s assessment is that there is limited
centrally managed liquid assets in bank deposits, Aaa/AAA rated credit risk associated with these customers.
US Treasury and Treasury repo only money market funds and
The Group’s credit risk monitoring activities relating to these
Aaa/AAA rated liquidity funds.
wholesalers include a review of their quarterly financial
Wholesale and retail credit risk information and Standard & Poor’s credit ratings, development of
Outside the US, no customer accounts for more than 5% of the GSK internal risk ratings, and establishment and periodic review
Group’s trade receivables balance. of credit limits.
In the US, in line with other pharmaceutical companies, the Group All new customers are subject to a credit vetting process and
sells its products through a small number of wholesalers in existing customers will be subject to a review at least annually.
addition to hospitals, pharmacies, physicians and other groups. The vetting process and subsequent reviews involve obtaining
Sales to the three largest wholesalers amounted to approximately information including the customer’s status as a government or
79% (2021: 75%) of the sales of the US Commercial Operations private sector entity, audited financial statements, credit bureau
business in 2022. reports, debt rating agency (eg Moody’s, Standard & Poor’s)
reports, payment performance history (from trade references,
At 31 December 2022, the Group had trade receivables due
industry credit groups) and bank references.
from these three wholesalers totalling £3,001 million or 55% of
total trade receivables (2021: £2,430 million or 39%). The Group
is exposed to a concentration of credit risk in respect of these
wholesalers such that, if one or more of them encounters financial
difficulty, it could materially and adversely affect the Group’s
financial results.GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
44. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Trade receivables consist of amounts due from a large number Fair value of financial assets and liabilities
of customers, spread across diverse industries and
excluding lease liabilities
geographical areas. Ongoing credit evaluation is performed
The table on page 249 presents the carrying amounts and the
on the financial condition of accounts receivable and, where
fair values of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities
appropriate, credit insurance is purchased or factoring
excluding lease liabilities at 31 December 2022 and
arrangements put in place.
31 December 2021.
The amount of information obtained is proportional to the level
The fair values of the financial assets and liabilities are
of exposure being considered. The information is evaluated
included at the price that would be received to sell an asset or
quantitatively (i.e. credit score) and qualitatively (i.e. judgement) in
paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between
conjunction with the customer’s credit requirements to determine
market participants at the measurement date.
a credit limit.
The following methods and assumptions are used to measure
Trade receivables are grouped into customer segments that have
the fair values of significant financial instruments carried at fair
similar loss patterns to assess credit risk while other receivables
value on the balance sheet:
and other financial assets are assessed individually. Historical and
forward-looking information is considered to determine the – Other investments – equity investments traded in an active
appropriate expected credit loss allowance. market determined by reference to the relevant stock
exchange quoted bid price; other equity investments
The Group believes there is no further credit risk provision required
determined by reference to the current market value of
in excess of the allowance for expected credit losses (see Note 26,
similar instruments, recent financing rounds or the
‘Trade and other receivables’).
discounted cash flows of the underlying net assets
Credit enhancements
– Trade receivables carried at fair value – based on invoiced
The Group uses credit enhancements including factoring
amount
and credit insurance to minimise the credit risk of the trade
receivables in the Group. At 31 December 2022, £332 million – Interest rate swaps, foreign exchange forward contracts,
(2021: £315 million) of trade receivables were insured in order to swaps and options – based on the present value of
protect the receivables from loss due to credit risks such as contractual cash flows or option valuation models using
default, insolvency and bankruptcy. market sourced data (exchange rates or interest rates) at the
balance sheet date
Each Group entity assesses the credit risk of its private
customers to determine if credit insurance is required. – Cash and cash equivalents carried at fair value – based on
net asset value of the funds
Factoring arrangements are managed locally by entities and
are used to mitigate risk arising from large credit risk – Contingent consideration for business acquisitions and
concentrations. All factoring arrangements are non-recourse. divestments – based on present values of expected future
cash flows.
The following methods and assumptions are used to estimate
the fair values of significant financial instruments which are not
measured at fair value on the balance sheet:
– Receivables and payables, including put options, carried at
amortised cost – approximates to the carrying amount
– Liquid investments – approximates to the carrying amount
– Cash and cash equivalents carried at amortised cost –
approximates to the carrying amount
– Long-term loans – based on quoted market prices (a level 1
fair value measurement) in the case of European and US
Medium Term Notes; approximates to the carrying amount
in the case of other fixed rate borrowings and floating rate
bank loans
– Short-term loans, overdrafts and commercial paper –
approximates to the carrying amount because of the short
maturity of these instruments.
248GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
249
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
44. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
2022 2021
Carrying Fair Carrying Fair
value value value value
Notes £m £m £m £m
Financial assets measured at amortised cost:
Other non-current assets b 21 21 21 21
Trade and other receivables b 3,789 3,789 4,830 4,830
Liquid investments 67 67 61 61
Cash and cash equivalents 1,324 1,324 2,825 2,825
Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive
income (FVTOCI):
Other investments designated at FVTOCI a 1,153 1,153 1,927 1,927
Trade and other receivables a,b 2,327 2,327 1,943 1,943
Financial assets mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL):
Current equity investments and Other investments a 4,401 4,401 199 199
Other non-current assets a,b 13 13 23 23
Trade and other receivables a,b 50 50 59 59
Held for trading derivatives that are not in a designated and
effective hedging relationship a,d,e 165 165 83 83
Cash and cash equivalents a 2,399 2,399 1,449 1,449
Derivatives designated and effective as hedging instruments (fair value movements
through Other comprehensive income) a,d,e 25 25 123 123
Total financial assets 15,734 15,734 13,543 13,543
Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost:
Borrowings excluding obligations under lease liabilities:
– bonds in a designated hedging relationship d (6,322) (6,035) (4,982) (5,311)
– other bonds (12,017) (11,930) (17,373) (20,746)
– bank loans and overdrafts (447) (447) (550) (550)
– commercial paper in a designated hedging relationship (443) (443) (252) (252)
– other commercial paper (748) (748) – –
– other borrowings (2) (2) (1) (1)
Total borrowings excluding lease liabilities f (19,979) (19,605) (23,158) (26,860)
Trade and other payables c (14,065) (14,065) (15,431) (15,431)
Other provisions d (63) (63) (113) (113)
Other non-current liabilities c (84) (84) (52) (52)
Financial liabilities mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL):
Contingent consideration liabilities a,c (7,068) (7,068) (6,076) (6,076)
Held for trading derivatives that are not in a designated and
effective hedging relationship a,d,e (77) (77) (171) (171)
Derivatives designated and effective as hedging instruments (fair value movements
through Other comprehensive income) a,d,e (106) (106) (57) (57)
Total financial liabilities excluding lease liabilities (41,442) (41,068) (45,058) (48,760)
Net financial assets and financial liabilities excluding lease liabilities (25,708) (25,334) (31,515) (35,217)
The valuation methodology used to measure fair value in the above table is described and categorised on page 248.
Trade and other receivables, Other non-current assets, Trade and other payables, Other provisions, Contingent consideration
liabilities and Other non-current liabilities are reconciled to the relevant Notes on pages 251 to 252.GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
44. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Fair value of investments in GSK shares
At 31 December 2022, the Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) Trusts held GSK shares with a carrying value of £354 million
(2021: £28 million) and a market value of £861 million (2021: £373 million) based on quoted market price. The shares are held by the
ESOP Trusts to satisfy future exercises of options and awards under employee incentive schemes. In 2022, the carrying value,
which is the lower of cost or expected proceeds, of these shares has been recognised as a deduction from other reserves.
At 31 December 2022, GSK held Treasury shares at a cost of £3,797 million (2021: £4,969 million) which has been deducted from
retained earnings.
(a) Financial instruments held at fair value
The following tables categorise the Group’s financial assets and liabilities held at fair value by the valuation methodology applied
in determining their fair value. Where possible, quoted prices in active markets are used (Level 1). Where such prices are not
available, the asset or liability is classified as Level 2, provided all significant inputs to the valuation model used are based on
observable market data. If one or more of the significant inputs to the valuation model is not based on observable market data,
the instrument is classified as Level 3. Other investments classified as Level 3 in the tables below comprise equity investments in
unlisted entities with which the Group has entered into research collaborations and investments which provide access to
biotechnology developments of potential interest.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
At 31 December 2022 £m £m £m £m
Financial assets at fair value
Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVTOCI):
Other investments designated at FVTOCI 823 – 330 1,153
Trade and other receivables – 2,327 – 2,327
Financial assets mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL):
Current equity investments and Other investments 4,087 – 314 4,401
Other non-current assets – – 13 13
Trade and other receivables – 50 – 50
Held for trading derivatives that are not in a designated and effective hedging relationship – 165 – 165
Cash and cash equivalents 2,399 – – 2,399
Derivatives designated and effective as hedging instruments (fair value movements through OCI) – 25 – 25
7,309 2,567 657 10,533
Financial liabilities at fair value
Financial liabilities mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL):
Contingent consideration liabilities – – (7,068) (7,068)
Held for trading derivatives that are not in a designated and effective hedging relationship – (77) – (77)
Derivatives designated and effective as hedging instruments (fair value movements through OCI) – (106) – (106)
– (183) (7,068) (7,251)
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
At 31 December 2021 £m £m £m £m
Financial assets at fair value
Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVTOCI):
Other investments designated at FVTOCI 1,736 – 191 1,927
Trade and other receivables – 1,943 – 1,943
Financial assets mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL):
Other investments – – 199 199
Other non-current assets – – 23 23
Trade and other receivables – 59 – 59
Held for trading derivatives that are not in a designated and effective hedging relationship – 77 6 83
Cash and cash equivalents 1,449 – – 1,449
Derivatives designated and effective as hedging instruments (fair value movements through OCI) – 123 – 123
3,185 2,202 419 5,806
Financial liabilities at fair value
Financial liabilities mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL):
Contingent consideration liabilities – – (6,076) (6,076)
Held for trading derivatives that are not in a designated and effective hedging relationship – (171) – (171)
Derivatives designated and effective as hedging instruments (fair value movements through OCI) – (57) – (57)
– (228) (6,076) (6,304)
250GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
251
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
44. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Movements in the year for financial instruments measured using Level 3 valuation methods are presented below:
2022 2021
£m £m
At 1 January (5,657) (5,064)
Exchange adjustments 46 4
Net losses recognised in the income statement (1,627) (1,024)
Net gains recognised in other comprehensive income 91 185
Contingent consideration related to business acquisitions in the period (482) –
Settlement of contingent consideration liabilities 1,137 856
Additions 97 99
Disposals and settlements (16) (19)
Transfers from Level 3 – (694)
At 31 December (6,411) (5,657)
Of the total net losses of £1,627 million (2021: £1,024 million) attributable to Level 3 financial instruments which were recognised in
the income statement, £1,623 million (2021: £1,024 million) were in respect of financial instruments which were held at the end of
the year and were reported in Other operating income/expense. Charges of £1,431 million (2021: £1,026 million) arose from
remeasurement of the contingent consideration payable for the acquisition of the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture
and £231 million (2021: £32 million) arose from remeasurement of the contingent consideration payable for the acquisition of the
Novartis Vaccines business. The acquisition of Affinivax in 2022 resulted in the additon of £482 million of contingent consideration
to Level 3 financial liabilities, with a further £17 million remeasurement charge arising for the period between acquisition and 31
December 2022. There were no transfers into or out of Level 3 financial instruments in the year (2021 – transfers related to equity
instruments which transferred to a Level 1 valuation methodology as a result of listing on a recognised stock exchange during the
year). Movements arising on the translation of overseas net assets for consolidation into the Group accounts are recorded as
Exchange adjustments. Net gains and losses include the impact of other exchange movements.
Financial liabilities measured using Level 3 valuation methods at 31 December included £5,890 million (2021: £5,559 million) in
respect of contingent consideration payable for the acquisition in 2012 of the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture. This
consideration is expected to be paid over a number of years and will vary in line with the future performance of specified products
and movements in certain foreign currencies. A further £673 million (2021: £479 million) is in respect of contingent consideration for
the acquisition in 2015 of the Novartis Vaccines business. This consideration is expected to be paid over a number of years and will
vary in line with the future performance of specified products, the achievement of certain milestone targets and movements in
certain foreign currencies. As a result of the Group’s acquisition of Affinivax in 2022, contingent consideration payable of £501
million is recognised at 31 December 2022. This consideration is expected to be paid over a number of years and will vary in line
with the achievement of certain development milestones and movements in the USD/GBP exchange rate. Sensitivity analysis on
these balances is provided in Note 33, ‘Contingent consideration liabilities’.
(b) Trade and other receivables and Other non-current assets in scope of IFRS 9
The following table reconciles financial instruments within Trade and other receivables and Other non-current assets which fall
within the scope of IFRS 9 to the relevant balance sheet amounts. The financial assets are predominantly non-interest earning.
Non-financial instruments include tax receivables, pension surplus balances and prepayments, which are outside the scope of
IFRS 9.
2022 2021
Non- Non-
At At Amortised Financial financial At At Amortised Financial financial
FVTPL FVTOCI cost instruments instruments Total FVTPL FVTOCI cost instruments instruments Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Trade and other receivables
(Note 26) 50 2,327 3,789 6,166 887 7,053 59 1,943 4,830 6,832 1,028 7,860
Other non-current assets
(Note 24) 13 – 21 34 1,160 1,194 23 – 21 44 1,632 1,676
63 2,327 3,810 6,200 2,047 8,247 82 1,943 4,851 6,876 2,660 9,536
Trade and other receivables include trade receivables of £5,452 million (2021: £6,246 million). The Group has portfolios in each of the
three business models under IFRS 9: £50 million (2021: £59 million), measured at FVTPL, is held to sell the contractual cash flows as
the receivables will be sold under a factoring arrangement, £2,327 million (2021: £1,943 million), measured at FVTOCI, is held to either
collect or sell the contractual cash flows as the receivables may be sold under a factoring agreement, and £3,075 million (2021:
£4,244 million), measured at amortised cost, is held to collect the contractual cash flows and there is no factoring agreement in
place.GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
44. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
(c) Trade and other payables, Other provisions, Contingent consideration liabilities and Other non-
current liabilities in scope of IFRS 9
The following table reconciles financial instruments within Trade and other payables, Other provisions, Contingent consideration
liabilities and Other non-current liabilities which fall within the scope of IFRS 9 to the relevant balance sheet amounts. The
financial liabilities are predominantly non-interest bearing. Non-financial instruments include payments on account, tax and
social security payables and provisions which do not arise from contractual obligations to deliver cash or another financial asset,
which are outside the scope of IFRS 9.
2022 2021
Non- Non-
Amortised Financial financial Amortised Financial financial
At FVTPL cost instruments instruments Total At FVTPL cost instruments instruments Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Trade and other payables
(Note 29) – (14,065) (14,065) (2,198) (16,263) – (15,431) (15,431) (2,123) (17,554)
Other provisions
(Note 32) – (63) (63) (1,121) (1,184) – (113) (113) (1,358) (1,471)
Contingent consideration
liabilities (Note 33) (7,068) – (7,068) – (7,068) (6,076) – (6,076) – (6,076)
Other non-current
liabilities (Note 34) – (84) (84) (815) (899) – (52) (52) (869) (921)
(7,068) (14,212) (21,280) (4,134) (25,414) (6,076) (15,596) (21,672) (4,350) (26,022)
(d) Derivative financial instruments and hedging programmes
Derivatives are only used for economic hedging purposes and not as speculative investments and are classified as ‘held for
trading’, other than designated and effective hedging instruments, and are presented as current assets or liabilities if they are
expected to be settled within 12 months after the end of the reporting period, otherwise they are classified as non-current. The
Group has the following derivative financial instruments:
2022 2021
Fair value Fair value
Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities
£m £m £m £m
Non-current
Cash flow hedges – Interest rate swap contracts
(principal amount – £nil (2021: £1,996 million)) – – 12 (1)
Current
Cash flow hedges – Foreign exchange contracts
(principal amount – £167 million (2021: £160 million)) 5 – – (3)
Net investment hedges – Foreign exchange contracts
(principal amount – £7,197 million (2021: £5,469 million)) 20 (106) 111 (53)
Derivatives designated and effective as hedging instruments 25 (106) 123 (57)
Non-current
Embedded and other derivatives – – 6 –
Current
Foreign exchange contracts
(principal amount – £5,908 million (2021: £9,728 million)) 163 (76) 77 (169)
Embedded and other derivatives 2 (1) – (2)
Derivatives classified as held for trading 165 (77) 83 (171)
Total derivative instruments 190 (183) 206 (228)
252GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
253
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
44. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Fair value hedges
At 31 December 2022 and 31 December 2021, the Group had no designated fair value hedges.
Net investment hedges
At 31 December 2022, certain foreign exchange contracts were designated as net investment hedges in respect of the foreign
currency translation risk arising on consolidation of the Group’s net investment in its European (Euro), Singaporean (SGD),
Canadian (CAD) and Japanese (JPY) foreign operations as shown in the table above.
The carrying value of bonds on page 249 included £6,322 million (2021: £4,982 million) that were designated as hedging
instruments in net investment hedges.
Cash flow hedges
During 2021 and 2022, the Group entered into forward foreign exchange contracts which have been designated as cash flow
hedges. These were entered into to hedge the foreign exchange exposure arising on cash flows from Euro denominated coupon
payments relating to notes issued under the Group’s European Medium Term Note programme, and to hedge foreign currency
payments due on collaboration or licensing arrangements.
The Group manages its cash flow interest rate risk by using floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps. In addition, the Group carries a
balance in reserves that arose from pre-hedging fluctuations in long-term interest rates when pricing bonds issued in prior years
and in the current year. The balance is reclassified to finance costs over the life of these bonds.
Foreign exchange risk
In the current year, the Group has designated certain foreign exchange forward contracts and swaps as cash flow and net
investment hedges. Foreign exchange derivative financial assets and liabilities are presented in the line ‘Derivative financial
instruments’ (either as assets or liabilities) on the Consolidated balance sheet. The following tables detail the foreign exchange
forward contracts and swaps outstanding at the end of the reporting period, as well as information on the related hedged items.
Hedge effectiveness is determined at the inception of the hedge relationship, and through periodic prospective effectiveness
assessments to ensure that an economic relationship exists between the hedged item and hedging instrument. The Group enters
into hedge relationships where the critical terms of the hedging instrument match exactly with the terms of the hedged item, and
so a qualitative assessment of effectiveness is performed. If changes in circumstances affect the terms of the hedged item such
that the critical terms no longer match exactly with the critical terms of the hedging instrument, the Group uses the hypothetical
derivative method to assess effectiveness.
The main source of hedge ineffectiveness in these hedging relationships is the effect of the counterparty and the Group’s own
credit risk on the fair value of the foreign exchange forward contracts and swaps, which is not reflected in the fair value of the
hedged item attributable to changes in foreign exchange rates and ineffectiveness on rolling the cash flow hedges of the
divestments mentioned above. No other sources of ineffectiveness emerged from these hedging relationships. No ineffectiveness
was recorded from cash flow hedges in 2022 (2021: £nil). No ineffectiveness was recorded from net investment hedges (2021: £nil).
2022
Periodic
change in
value for
calculating
Average Foreign Notional Carrying hedge
exchange rate currency value value ineffectiveness
Hedging instruments £m £m £m
Cash flow hedges
Foreign exchange contracts
Buy foreign currency:
Less than 3 months 1.23 USD 100 2 2
3 to 6 months 1.16 EUR 50 2 2
Over 6 months 1.15 EUR 24 1 1
Sell foreign currency
Less than 3 months 1.14 EUR (7) – –
167 5 5GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
44. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
2022
Periodic
change in
value for
calculating
Average Foreign Notional Carrying hedge
exchange rate currency value value ineffectiveness
Hedging instruments £m £m £m
Net investment hedges
Foreign exchange contracts
Sell foreign currency:
Less than 3 months 1.14 EUR 6,559 (103) (317)
160.90 JPY 194 (3) (9)
Over 6 months 1.57 CAD 270 18 15
1.59 SGD 174 2 1
Borrowings
Less than 3 months EUR 293 (293) (4)
3 to 6 months EUR 150 (150) (3)
Over 6 months EUR 6,341 (6,322) (300)
13,981 (6,851) (617)
2022
Balance in cash flow hedge
Cumulative balance in cash reserve arising from hedging
Periodic change in value flow hedge reserve/foreign relationships for which hedge
for calculating hedge currency translation reserve accounting is no longer
ineffectiveness for continuing hedges applied
Hedged items £m £m £m
Cash flow hedges
Variability in cash flows from a highly probable forecast transaction (2) 2 –
Variability in cash flows from foreign exchange exposure arising on
Euro denominated coupon payments relating to debt issued (3) 2 –
Net investment hedges
Net investment in foreign operations 617 (1,120) –
2021
Periodic
change in
value for
calculating
Average Foreign Notional Carrying hedge
exchange rate currency value value ineffectiveness
Hedging instruments £m £m £m
Cash flow hedges
Foreign exchange contracts
Buy foreign currency:
Less than 3 months 1.32 USD 89 (2) –
3 to 6 months 1.17 EUR 48 (1) (1)
Over 6 months 1.17 EUR 23 – –
160 (3) (1)
2021
Periodic
change in
value for
calculating
Average Foreign Notional Carrying hedge
exchange rate currency value value ineffectiveness
Hedging instruments £m £m £m
Net investment hedges
Foreign exchange contracts
Sell foreign currency:
Less than 3 months 1.18 EUR 5,348 58 578
SGD – – 55
155.19 JPY 121 – 15
Borrowings
Less than 3 months EUR 252 (252) 11
Over 6 months EUR 4,998 (4,982) 459
10,719 (5,176) 1,118
254GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
255
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
44. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
2021
Cumulative balance in cash
Periodic change in value flow hedge reserve/foreign
for calculating hedge currency translation reserve
ineffectiveness for continuing hedges
Hedged items £m £m
Cash flow hedges
Variability in cash flows from foreign exchange exposure arising on
Euro denominated coupon payments relating to debt issued 1 (1)
Net investment hedges
Net investment in foreign operations (1,117) (873)
£3 million (2021: £19 million) of balances in the cash flow hedge reserve arise from hedging relationships for which hedge
accounting is no longer applied.
The following table details the effectiveness of the hedging relationships and the amounts reclassified from the hedging reserve to
profit or loss:
2022
Amount reclassified to profit or loss Amount reclassified to balance sheet
Line item Hedged
Amount in profit or future cash Line item in Line item
Hedging of hedge loss in flows Due to profit or loss in balance
gains/(losses) ineffectiveness which hedge no longer hedged item in which Due to hedged sheet in which
recognised in recognised in ineffectiveness expected to affecting reclassification item affecting reclassification
reserves profit or loss is included occur profit or loss adjustment balance sheet adjustment
£m £m £m £m is included £m is included
Cash flow hedges
Variability in cash flows from (5) – Finance – – – 8 Intangible
a highly probable forecast income or assets
transaction expense
Variability in cash flows from 4 – Finance – (2) Finance – –
foreign exchange exposure income or income or
arising on Euro denominated expense expense
coupon payments relating to
debt issued
Net investment hedges
Net investment in foreign (617) – Finance – 194 Discontinued – –
operations income or operations(1)
expense
2021
Amount reclassified to profit or loss Amount reclassified to balance sheet
Line item Hedged
Amount in profit or future cash Line item in Line item
Hedging of hedge loss in flows Due to profit or loss in balance
gains/(losses) ineffectiveness which hedge no longer hedged item in which Due to hedged sheet in which
recognised in recognised in ineffectiveness expected to affecting reclassification item affecting reclassification
reserves profit or loss is included occur profit or loss adjustment balance sheet adjustment
£m £m £m £m is included £m is included
Cash flow hedges
Variability in cash flows from 7 – Other – (7) Other – –
a highly probable forecast operating operating
transaction income/ income/
(expense) (expense)
Variability in cash flows from (1) – Finance – – Finance – –
foreign exchange exposure income or income or
arising on Euro denominated expense expense
coupon payments relating to
debt issued
Net investment hedges
Net investment in foreign 1,117 – Finance – (7) Finance – –
operations income or income or
expense expense
(1) Reclassified to the Consolidated income statement on the demerger of the Consumer Healthcare business.GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
44. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Interest rate risk
The Group manages its cash flow interest rate risk by using floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps, where at quarterly intervals the
difference between fixed contract rates and floating rate interest amounts calculated by reference to the agreed notional
principal amounts are exchanged.
There are none of these swaps outstanding at 31 December 2022. At 31 December 2021, the interest rate risk on an element of
future debt issuance had been managed by entering into forward starting interest rate swaps, effectively to lock in the interest
rates on the debt in advance. These were closed out at the time of issuing the debt, and the resulting gain or loss held in the Cash
flow hedge reserve and reclassified to income statement as the interest payments on the debt impacted the income statement
until the debt was derecognised on demerger of the Consumer Healthcare business in July 2022.
Forward starting interest rate swaps
The forward starting interest rate contracts, exchanging floating interest for fixed interest, were designated as cash flow hedges
to hedge the interest variability of the interest cash flows associated with the future fixed rate debt.
Interest rate swaps
The following tables provide information regarding interest rate swap and forward starting interest rate swap contracts
outstanding and the related hedged items at 31 December 2021. There were no such swaps at 31 December 2022. Interest rate
swap contract assets and liabilities are presented in the line ‘Derivative financial instruments’ (either as assets or liabilities) on the
Consolidated balance sheet.
£24 million (2021: £11 million) of balances in the cash flow hedge reserve arise from hedge relationships for which hedge
accounting is no longer applied.
2021
Change in
fair value for
Average Notional recognising Fair value
contracted principal hedge assets/
fixed rate value ineffectiveness (liabilities)
Hedging instruments % £m £m £m
5-10 years 1.1038 668 4 4
10-30 years 1.3385 935 3 3
More than 30 years 1.4515 393 4 4
2021
Balance in
Change in cash flow
value used for hedge reserve
calculating for continuing
hedge hedges
ineffectiveness after tax
Hedged items £m £m
Pre-hedging of long-term interest rate (11) (8)
256GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
257
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
44. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
The following table details the effectiveness of the hedging relationships and the amounts reclassified from the hedging reserve to profit
or loss:
2022
Amount reclassified to profit or loss
Line item Due to Line item
Amount in profit or hedged future in profit or loss
Hedging of hedge loss in cash flows Due to in which
gains/(losses) ineffectiveness which hedge no longer hedged item reclassification
recognised in recognised ineffectiveness expected to affecting adjustment
reserves in profit or loss is included occur profit or loss is included
£m £m £m £m
Cash flow hedges
Pre-hedging of long-term interest rates: Finance Finance
income or income or
Matured in the past (23) – – 3
expense expense
2021
Amount reclassified to profit or loss
Line item Due to Line item
Amount in profit or hedged future in profit or loss
Hedging of hedge loss in cash flows Due to in which
gains/(losses) ineffectiveness which hedge no longer hedged item reclassification
recognised in recognised in ineffectiveness expected to affecting adjustment
reserves profit or loss is included occur profit or loss is included
£m £m £m £m
Cash flow hedges
Variability in cash flows (11) – Finance – 17 Finance
income or income or
expense expense
Pre-hedging of long-term interest rates:
Matured in the past – – Finance – 2 Finance
5-10 years 4 – income or – – income or
expense expense
10-30 years 3 – – –
>30 years 4 – – –
(e) Offsetting of financial assets and liabilities
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the balance sheet where there is a legally enforceable
right to offset the recognised amounts, and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and settle the liability
simultaneously. There are also arrangements that do not meet the criteria for offsetting but still allow for the related amounts to
be offset in certain circumstances, such as bankruptcy or the termination of a contract.
The following tables set out the financial assets and liabilities that are offset, or subject to enforceable master netting
arrangements and other similar agreements but not offset, as at 31 December 2022 and 31 December 2021. The column ‘Net
amount’ shows the impact on the Group’s balance sheet if all offset rights were exercised.
Gross Gross Net financial Related
financial financial assets/ amounts not
assets/ (liabilities)/ (liabilities) per set off in the
(liabilities) assets set off balance sheet balance sheet Net
At 31 December 2022 £m £m £m £m £m
Financial assets
Trade and other receivables 6,166 – 6,166 – 6,166
Derivative financial instruments 190 – 190 (163) 27
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables (14,065) – (14,065) – (14,065)
Derivative financial instruments (183) – (183) 163 (20)GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
44. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Gross Financial
financial (liabilities)/ Net financial Related
assets/ assets assets/ amounts not Net
(liabilities) offset (liabilities) offset balance
At 31 December 2021 £m £m £m £m £m
Financial assets
Trade and other receivables 6,851 (19) 6,832 (3) 6,829
Derivative financial instruments 206 – 206 (192) 14
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables (15,450) 19 (15,431) 3 (15,428)
Derivative financial instruments (228) – (228) 192 (36)
Amounts which do not meet the criteria for offsetting on the balance sheet but could be settled net in certain circumstances
principally relate to derivative transactions under ISDA (International Swaps and Derivatives Association) agreements where each
party has the option to settle amounts on a net basis in the event of default of the other party. As there is presently not a legally
enforceable right of offset, these amounts have not been offset in the balance sheet, but have been presented separately in the
table above.
(f) Debt interest rate repricing table
The following table sets out the exposure of the Group to interest rates on debt, including commercial paper. The maturity analysis
of fixed rate debt is stated by contractual maturity and of floating rate debt by interest rate repricing dates. For the purpose of this
table, debt is defined as all classes of borrowings other than lease liabilities.
2022 2021
Total
debt Total
£m £m
Floating and fixed rate debt less than one year (3,785) (3,398)
Between one and two years (1,714) (4,030)
Between two and three years (1,490) (1,576)
Between three and four years (1,505) (1,365)
Between four and five years (748) (1,425)
Between five and ten years (4,736) (4,411)
Greater than ten years (6,001) (6,953)
Total (19,979) (23,158)
Original issuance profile:
Fixed rate interest (18,355) (22,355)
Floating rate interest (1,624) (803)
(19,979) (23,158)
258GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
259
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
44. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
(g) Sensitivity analysis
The tables below illustrate the estimated impact on the income statement and equity as a result of hypothetical market
movements in foreign exchange and interest rates in relation to the Group’s financial instruments. The range of variables chosen
for the sensitivity analysis reflects management’s view of changes which are reasonably possible over a one-year period.
Foreign exchange sensitivity
The Group operates internationally and is primarily exposed to foreign exchange risk in relation to Sterling against movements in
US Dollar, Euro and Japanese Yen. Foreign exchange risk arises from the translation of financial assets and liabilities which are not
in the functional currency of the entity that holds them. Based on the Group’s net financial assets and liabilities as at 31 December,
a weakening and strengthening of Sterling against these currencies, with all other variables held constant, is illustrated in the
tables below. The tables exclude financial instruments that expose the Group to foreign exchange risk where this risk is fully
hedged with another financial instrument.
2022 2021
Increase/(decrease) in Increase/(decrease) in
income income
Income statement impact of non-functional currency foreign exchange exposures £m £m
10 cent appreciation of the US Dollar 99 5
15 cent appreciation of the US Dollar 155 8
10 cent appreciation of the Euro (7) (26)
15 cent appreciation of the Euro (12) (41)
10 yen appreciation of the Yen – –
15 yen appreciation of the Yen (1) –
2022 2021
Increase/(decrease) in Increase/(decrease) in
income income
Income statement impact of non-functional currency foreign exchange exposures £m £m
10 cent depreciation of the US Dollar (84) (4)
15 cent depreciation of the US Dollar (121) (6)
10 cent depreciation of the Euro 6 22
15 cent depreciation of the Euro 9 32
10 yen depreciation of the Yen – –
15 yen depreciation of the Yen – –
The equity impact, shown below, for foreign exchange sensitivity relates to derivative and non-derivative financial instruments
hedging the Group’s net investments in its European (Euro) foreign operations and cash flow hedges of its foreign exchange
exposure arising on Euro denominated coupon payments relating to notes issued under the Group’s European Medium Term
Note programme.
2022 2021
Increase/(decrease) Increase/(decrease)
in equity in equity
Equity impact of non-functional currency foreign exchange exposures £m £m
10 cent appreciation of the Euro (1,290) (964)
15 cent appreciation in Euro (2,034) (1,515)
2022 2021
Increase/(decrease) Increase/(decrease)
in equity in equity
Equity impact of non-functional currency foreign exchange exposures £m £m
10 cent depreciation of the Euro 1,080 814
15 cent depreciation of the Euro 1,557 1,176GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
44. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
The tables below present the Group’s sensitivity to a weakening and strengthening of Sterling against the relevant currency based
on the composition of net debt as shown in Note 30 adjusted for the effects of foreign exchange derivatives that are not part of
net debt but affect future foreign currency cash flows.
2022 2021
(Increase)/decrease (Increase)/decrease
in net debt in net debt
Impact of foreign exchange movements on net debt £m £m
10 cent appreciation of the US Dollar (999) (767)
15 cent appreciation of the US Dollar (1,570) (1,199)
10 cent appreciation of the Euro 11 444
15 cent appreciation of the Euro 17 698
10 yen appreciation of the Yen 13 17
15 yen appreciation of the Yen 20 26
2022 2021
(Increase)/decrease (Increase)/decrease
in net debt in net debt
Impact of foreign exchange movements on net debt £m £m
10 cent depreciation of the US Dollar 846 661
15 cent depreciation of the US Dollar 1,222 959
10 cent depreciation of the Euro (9) (375)
15 cent depreciation of the Euro (13) (542)
10 yen depreciation of the Yen (12) (15)
15 yen depreciation of the Yen (17) (21)
Interest rate sensitivity
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on its outstanding borrowings and investments where any changes in interest rates will
affect future cash flows or the fair values of financial instruments.
The majority of debt is issued at fixed interest rates and changes in the floating rates of interest do not significantly affect the
Group’s net interest charge, although the majority of cash and liquid investments earn floating rates of interest.
The table below hypothetically shows the Group’s sensitivity to changes in interest rates in relation to Sterling, US Dollar and Euro
floating rate financial assets and liabilities. A 1% (100 basis points) movement in USD interest rates would cause an increase of £nil
to equity (2021: £197 million). A 1.5% (150 basis points) movement in USD interest rates would cause an increase of £nil to equity
(2021: £297 million). A 1% (100 basis points) or 1.5% (150 basis points) movement in EUR or Sterling interest rates is not deemed to
have a material effect on equity.
2022 2021
Increase/(decrease) Increase/(decrease)
in income in income
Income statement impact of interest rate movements £m £m
1% (100 basis points) increase in Sterling interest rates 36 (25)
1.5% (150 basis points) increase in Sterling interest rates 55 (38)
1% (100 basis points) increase in US Dollar interest rates (34) 11
1.5% (150 basis points) increase in US Dollar interest rates (51) 17
1% (100 basis points) increase in Euro interest rates (13) 3
1.5% (150 basis points) increase in Euro interest rates (19) 5
260GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
261
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
44. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
(h) Contractual cash flows for non-derivative financial liabilities and derivative instruments
The following tables provide an analysis of the anticipated contractual cash flows including interest payable for the Group’s
non-derivative financial liabilities on an undiscounted basis. For the purpose of this table, debt is defined as all classes of
borrowings except for lease liabilities. Interest is calculated based on debt held at 31 December without taking account of future
issuance. Floating rate interest is estimated using the prevailing interest rate at the balance sheet date. Cash flows in foreign
currencies are translated using spot rates at 31 December.
Finance Trade payables
charge and other
Interest Lease on lease liabilities not
Debt on debt liabilities liabilities in net debt Total
At 31 December 2022 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Due in less than one year (3,786) (594) (167) (25) (15,362) (19,934)
Between one and two years (1,717) (570) (201) (22) (1,097) (3,607)
Between two and three years (1,496) (531) (127) (19) (1,034) (3,207)
Between three and four years (1,508) (489) (97) (15) (1,277) (3,386)
Between four and five years (751) (472) (80) (13) (1,008) (2,324)
Between five and ten years (4,765) (1,810) (201) (41) (2,641) (9,458)
Greater than ten years (6,063) (1,856) (135) (11) (1,134) (9,199)
Gross contractual cash flows (20,086) (6,322) (1,008) (146) (23,553) (51,115)
Finance Trade payables
charge and other
Interest Lease on lease liabilities not
Debt on debt liabilities liabilities in net debt Total
At 31 December 2021 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Due in less than one year (3,399) (686) (203) (25) (16,432) (20,745)
Between one and two years (4,042) (620) (185) (22) (935) (5,804)
Between two and three years (1,582) (574) (120) (19) (893) (3,188)
Between three and four years (1,372) (538) (93) (16) (919) (2,938)
Between four and five years (1,428) (500) (73) (14) (924) (2,939)
Between five and ten years (4,440) (2,046) (205) (44) (2,703) (9,438)
Greater than ten years (7,033) (2,639) (136) (13) (1,571) (11,392)
Gross contractual cash flows (23,296) (7,603) (1,015) (153) (24,377) (56,444)
The table below provides an analysis of the anticipated contractual cash flows for the Group’s derivative instruments excluding
equity options which do not give rise to cash flows, and other embedded derivatives, which are not material, using undiscounted
cash flows. Cash flows in foreign currencies are translated using spot rates at 31 December. The gross cash flows of foreign
exchange contracts are presented for the purpose of this table although, in practice, the Group uses standard settlement
arrangements to reduce its liquidity requirements on these instruments.
2022 2021
Gross cash inflows Gross cash outflows Gross cash inflows Gross cash outflows
Foreign Foreign Foreign Foreign
Forward exchange Forward exchange Forward exchange Forward exchange
starting forward starting forward starting forward starting forward
interest rate contracts interest rate contracts interest rate contracts interest rate contracts
swaps and swaps swaps and swaps swaps and swaps swaps and swaps
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Less than one year – 24,418 – (24,410) – 41,252 (13) (41,290)
Between one and two years – – – – 12 – (26) –
Between two and three years – – – – 24 – (26) –
Between three and four years – – – – 28 – (26) –
Between four and five years – – – – 28 – (26) –
Greater than five years – – – – 259 – (220) –
Gross contractual cash flows – 24,418 – (24,410) 351 41,252 (337) (41,290)GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
45. Employee share schemes
GSK operates several employee share schemes, including the Share Value Plan, whereby awards are granted to employees to
acquire shares or ADS in GSK plc at no cost after a three-year vesting period and the Performance Share Plan, whereby awards
are granted to employees to acquire shares or ADS in GSK plc at no cost, subject to the achievement by the Group of specified
performance targets. The granting of these restricted share awards has replaced the granting of options to employees as the cost
of the schemes more readily equates to the potential gain to be made by the employee. The Group also operates savings related
share option schemes, whereby options are granted to employees to acquire shares in GSK plc at a discounted price.
Grants of restricted share awards are normally exercisable at the end of the three-year vesting or performance period. Awards are
normally granted to employees to acquire shares or ADS in GSK plc but in some circumstances may be settled in cash. Grants under
savings-related share option schemes are normally exercisable after three years’ saving. In accordance with UK practice, the majority of
options under the savings-related share option schemes are granted at a price 20% below the market price ruling at the date of grant.
Options under historical share option schemes were granted at the market price ruling at the date of grant.
The value of the plans for participating employees has been maintained after the demerger of the Consumer Healthcare business
through the effect of the share consolidation (see Note 37). The total charge for share-based incentive plans in 2022 was £314
million (2021(1): £345 million; 2020(1): £330 million). Of this amount, £243 million (2021(1): £258million; 2020(1): £266 million) arose
from the Share Value Plan. See Note 9, ‘Employee Costs’ for further details.
(1) The 2021 and 2020 comparatives have been restated to reflect on a consistent basis from those previously published to reflect the demerger of the Consumer Healthcare
business. See Note 41.
GSK share award schemes
Share Value Plan
Under the Share Value Plan, share awards are granted to certain employees at no cost. The awards vest after two and a half to
three years and there are no performance criteria attached. The fair value of these awards is determined based on the closing
share price on the day of grant, after deducting the expected future dividend yield of 3.2% (2021: 3.8%; 2020: 5.0%) over the
duration of the award.
Shares(1) Weighted ADS(1) Weighted
Number of shares and ADS issuable Number (000) fair value Number (000) fair value
At 1 January 2020 29,459 15,850
Awards granted 11,115 £13.58 6,633 $34.43
Awards exercised (10,284) (5,353)
Awards cancelled (1,416) (1,014)
At 31 December 2020 28,874 16,116
Awards granted 11,220 £13.28 6,358 $36.68
Awards exercised (10,074) (5,240)
Awards cancelled (1,776) (1,705)
At 31 December 2021 28,244 15,529
Awards granted 10,987 £13.00 6,133 $30.64
Awards exercised (9,538) (4,919)
Awards cancelled (1,718) (1,314)
At 31 December 2022 27,975 15,429
(1) T he 2021 and 2020 comparatives have been restated to reflect the demerger of the Consumer Healthcare business and aid year on year volume comparability of awards
granted to GSK employees.
Performance Share Plan
Under the Performance Share Plan, share awards are granted to Directors and senior executives at no cost. The percentage of
each award that vests is based upon the performance of the Group over a defined measurement period with dividends reinvested
during the same period. For awards granted from 2016 to 2019, the performance conditions are based on three equally weighted
measures over a three-year performance period. These were adjusted free cash flow, TSR and R&D new product performance.
For awards granted from 2020, the performance conditions are based on four measures over a three-year performance period.
These are adjusted free cash flow (30%), TSR (30%), R&D new product performance (20%) and pipeline progress (20%). For
awards granted from 2022, the performance conditions are based on five measures over a three-year performance period.
These are TSR (30%), pipeline progress (20%), profit measure (20%), sale measure (20%) and ESG environment (10%).
The fair value of the awards is determined based on the closing share price on the day of grant. For TSR performance elements,
this is adjusted by the likelihood of that condition being met, as assessed at the time of grant.
During 2022, awards for the continuing business were made of 4.0 million shares at a weighted fair value of £13.36 and 1.0 million
ADS at a weighted fair value of $35.88. At 31 December 2022, there were outstanding awards over 12.6 million shares and 2.8
million ADS.
262GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
263
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
45. Employee share schemes continued
Share options and savings-related options
For the purposes of valuing savings-related options to arrive at the share-based payment charge, a Black-Scholes option pricing
model has been used. The assumptions used in the model are as follows:
2022 Grant 2021 Grant 2020 Grant
Risk-free interest rate 3.37% 0.74% (0.07)%
Dividend yield 3.3% 3.8% 6.2%
Volatility 36% 27% 27%
Expected life 3 years 3 years 3 years
Savings-related options grant price (including 20% discount) £11.39 £12.07 £10.34
Savings-related
Options outstanding for the Share Save Plan
share option schemes
Weighted
Number exercise
000 price
At 31 December 2022 5,803 £11.38
Range of exercise prices on options outstanding at year end £10.34 – £14.15
Weighted average market price on exercise during year £16.15
Weighted average remaining contractual life 2.0 years
Options over 1.2 million shares were granted during the year under the savings-related share option scheme at a weighted
average fair value of £4.34. At 31 December 2022, 5.3 million of the savings-related share options were not exercisable.
There has been no change in the effective exercise price of any outstanding options during the year.
Employee Share Ownership Plan Trusts
The Group sponsors Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) Trusts to acquire and hold shares in GSK plc to satisfy awards made
under employee incentive plans and options granted under employee share option schemes. The trustees of the ESOP Trusts
purchase shares with finance provided by the Group by way of loans or contributions. The costs of running the ESOP Trusts are
charged to the income statement. Shares held by the ESOP Trusts are deducted from other reserves and amortised down to the
value of proceeds, if any, receivable from employees on exercise by a transfer to retained earnings. The trustees have waived their
rights to dividends on the shares held by the ESOP Trusts.
Shares held for share award schemes 2022 2021
Number of shares (000) 59,814 23,065
£m £m
Nominal value 19 6
Carrying value 353 27
Market value 860 371
Shares held for share option schemes 2022 2021
Number of shares (000) 65 139
£m £m
Nominal value – –
Carrying value 1 1
Market value 1 2GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
46. P rincipal Group companies
The following represent the principal subsidiaries and their countries of incorporation of the Group at 31 December 2022. The
equity share capital of these entities is shown in the percentage columns. All companies are incorporated in their principal country
of operation except where stated.
England % Scotland %
Glaxo Group Limited 100 GSK (No.1) Scottish Limited Partnership(c)
Glaxo Operations UK Limited 100 GSK (No.2) Scottish Limited Partnership(c)
Glaxo Wellcome UK Limited 100 GSK (No.3) Scottish Limited Partnership(d)
GlaxoSmithKline Capital plc 100
GlaxoSmithKline Export Limited 100 US %
GlaxoSmithKline Finance plc 100 Affinivax, Inc 100
GlaxoSmithKline Holdings Limited(a) 100 Corixa Corporation 100
GlaxoSmithKline IHC Limited 100 GlaxoSmithKline Capital Inc. 100
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property (No.2) Limited 100 GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (Americas) Inc. 100
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property (No.3) Limited 100 GlaxoSmithKline LLC 100
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property (No.4) Limited 100 GSK Equity Investments, Limited 100
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property Development Limited 100 Human Genome Sciences, Inc 100
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property Limited 100 Stiefel Laboratories, Inc 100
GlaxoSmithKline Research & Development Limited 100 Tesaro, Inc. 100
GlaxoSmithKline Services Unlimited(a) 100 ViiV Healthcare Company 78.3
GlaxoSmithKline UK Limited 100
GlaxoSmithKline US Trading Limited 100
Setfirst Limited 100
SmithKline Beecham Limited 100
ViiV Healthcare Finance Limited 78.3
ViiV Healthcare UK (No.3) Limited 78.3
Viiv Healthcare UK Limited 78.3
Europe % Others %
GlaxoSmithKline AG (Switzerland) 100 Glaxo Saudi Arabia Limited (Saudi Arabia) 75
GlaxoSmithKline B.V. (Netherlands) 100 Glaxo Wellcome Manufacturing Pte Ltd (Singapore) 100
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals SA (Belgium) 100 GlaxoSmithKline (Thailand) Limited (Thailand) 100
GlaxoSmithKline GmbH & Co. KG (Germany) 100 GlaxoSmithKline Australia Pty Ltd (Australia) 100
GlaxoSmithKline Pharma GmbH (Austria) 100 GlaxoSmithKline Brasil Limitada (Brazil) 100
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals SA (Belgium) 100 GlaxoSmithKline Far East B.V. (Taiwan) 100
GlaxoSmithKline S.A. (Spain) 100 GlaxoSmithKline Ilaclari Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S. (Turkey) 100
GlaxoSmithKline S.p.A. (Italy) 100 GlaxoSmithKline Inc. (Canada) 100
GlaxoSmithKline Single Member A.E.B.E. (Greece) 100 GlaxoSmithKline K.K. (Japan) 100
GlaxoSmithKline Trading Services Limited (Republic of Ireland)(b) 100 GlaxoSmithKline Korea Limited (Republic of Korea) 100
GSK Capital B.V. (Netherlands)(b) 100 GlaxoSmithKline Limited (Hong Kong) 100
GSK Services Sp z o.o. (Poland) 100 GlaxoSmithKline Mexico S.A. de C.V. (Mexico) 100
GSK Vaccines GmbH (Germany) 100 GlaxoSmithKline Pakistan Limited (Pakistan) 82.6
GSK Vaccines S.r.l. (Italy) 100 GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Limited (India) 75
JSC GlaxoSmithKline Trading (Russia) 100 GSK Enterprise Management Co, Ltd (China) 100
Laboratoire GlaxoSmithKline (France) 100 GSK Pharma Vietnam Company Limited (Vietnam) 100
Laboratorios ViiV Healthcare, S.L. (Spain) 78.3 ID Biomedical Corporation of Quebec (Canada) 100
ViiV Healthcare GmbH (Germany) 78.3 ViiV Healthcare K.K (Japan) 78.3
ViiV Healthcare S.r.l. (Italy) 78.3 ViiV Healthcare ULC (Canada) 78.3
ViiV Healthcare SAS (France) 78.3
(a) D irectly held wholly-owned subsidiary of GSK plc.
(b) T ax resident in UK.
(c) G SK GP 1 Limited is a subsidiary undertaking of GSK plc and Berkeley Square Pension Trustee Company Limited and is the general partner of GSK (No.1) Scottish Limited
Partnership and GSK (No.2) Scottish Limited Partnership. GSK GP 1 Limited’s share capital is 99% indirectly owned by GSK plc and 1% owned by Berkeley Square Pension
Trustee Company Limited.
(d) G SK GP 2 Limited is a subsidiary undertaking of GSK plc and is the general partner of GSK (No.3) Scottish Limited Partnership. GSK GP 2 Limited’s share capital is 100%
indirectly owned by GSK plc.
The subsidiaries and associates listed above principally affect the figures in the Group’s financial statements. Each of
GlaxoSmithKline Capital Inc., GlaxoSmithKline Capital plc, GlaxoSmithKline Finance plc, GSK Captial BV and GlaxoSmithKline
LLC, is a wholly-owned finance subsidiary of the company, and the company has fully and unconditionally guaranteed the
securities issued by each of GlaxoSmithKline Capital Inc., GlaxoSmithKline Capital plc, GlaxoSmithKline Finance plc, GSK Capital
BV and GlaxoSmithKline LLC.
See pages 307 to 314 for a complete list of subsidiary undertakings, associates and joint ventures, which form part of these financial
statements.
264GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
265
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
47. Legal proceedings
The Group is involved in significant legal and administrative On 2 December 2020, Teva filed a petition for rehearing en
proceedings, principally product liability, intellectual property, banc. The court granted Teva’s petition, but only for a
tax, anti-trust, consumer fraud and governmental rehearing by the three-member panel that issued the original
investigations. The most significant of these matters, other decision. On 5 August 2021, the original panel issued its
than tax matters, are described below. The Group makes rehearing opinion where the majority again reinstated the
provision for these proceedings on a regular basis as jury’s damages award of $235.51 million in GSK’s favour.
summarised in Note 2, ‘Accounting principles and policies’ and
Teva again filed a petition for rehearing en banc which was
Note 32, ‘Other provisions’. Note 2 also describes when
rejected by the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit on 11
disclosure is made of proceedings for which there is no
February 2022. On 11 July 2022, Teva filed a petition for writ of
provision. Legal expenses incurred and provisions related to
certiorari with the Supreme Court of the United States seeking
legal claims are charged to selling, general and administration
to overturn the Federal Court decision. On 3 October 2022, the
costs. The Group does not believe that information about the
Supreme Court invited the United States Solicitor General to
amount sought by plaintiffs, if that is known, would be
file briefs expressing the views of the United States.
meaningful with respect to those legal proceedings. This is due
to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the stage Dolutegravir Proceedings
of proceedings, the entitlement of parties to appeal a decision – Tivicay/Triumeq
and clarity as to theories of liability, damages and governing
In September 2021, ViiV Healthcare received a paragraph IV
law.
letter from Lupin relating to the Tivicay 5mg dosage for oral
At 31 December 2022, the Group’s aggregate provision for suspension, challenging only the crystal form patent. On 2
legal and other disputes (not including tax matters described November 2021, ViiV Healthcare filed suit against Lupin in the
in Note 14, ‘Taxation’) was £218 million. There can be no US District Court for the District of Delaware. No trial date has
assurance that any losses that result from the outcome of any yet been set.
legal proceedings will not exceed by a material amount the
– Dovato
amount of the provisions reported in the Group’s financial
In September 2019, ViiV Healthcare received a paragraph IV
statements. If this were to happen, it could have a material
letter from Cipla relating to Dovato and challenging only the
adverse impact on the results of operations of the Group in the
crystal form patent. On 4 November 2019, ViiV Healthcare filed
reporting period in which the judgements are incurred or the
suit against Cipla in the US District Court for the District of
settlements entered into.
Delaware. A settlement has been reached in the case.
– Juluca
Intellectual property
In January 2020, ViiV Healthcare received a paragraph IV
Intellectual property claims include challenges to the validity
letter from Lupin relating to Juluca and challenging the crystal
and enforceability of the Group’s patents on various products
form patent as well as a patent relating to the combination of
or processes as well as assertions of non-infringement of those
dolutegravir and rilpivirine that expires on 24 January 2031. On
patents. A loss in any of these cases could result in loss of
28 February 2020, ViiV Healthcare filed suit against Lupin on
patent protection for the product at issue. The consequences
both patents. A settlement has been reached with Lupin.
of any such loss could be a significant decrease in sales of that
Additionally, on 12 June 2020, Cipla sent ViiV Healthcare a
product and could materially affect future results of operations
paragraph IV letter related to Juluca, and on 22 July 2020, ViiV
for the Group.
Healthcare filed suit against Cipla in federal court in Delaware.
Coreg The court has not set a trial date.
In 2014, GSK initiated suit against Teva for inducing
infringement of its patent relating to the use of carvedilol Product liability
(Coreg) in decreasing mortality caused by congestive heart
The Group is currently a defendant in a number of product
failure. In June 2017, the case proceeded to a jury trial in the US
liability lawsuits.
District Court for the District of Delaware. The jury returned a
Avandia
verdict in GSK’s favour, awarding GSK lost profits and
There are two pending US class actions brought by third-party
reasonable royalties for a total award of $235.51 million. On
payers which assert claims under the Racketeer Influenced
29 March 2018, the trial judge ruled on post-trial motions filed
and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO) and state consumer by Teva and found that substantial evidence at trial did not
protection laws. In December 2019, the Third Circuit Court of
support the jury’s finding of induced infringement, overturning
Appeals reversed the summary judgements granted in favour
the jury award. GSK appealed, and on 2 October 2020, a
of the Group and remanded the third-party payer cases back
divided panel of the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
to district court. Discovery is underway in the district court but
reversed the district court’s ruling and reinstated the jury award
no trial dates have yet been set. It is possible that a class
in GSK’s favour.
certification hearing will be held in 2023.GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
47. Legal proceedings continued
Zantac In the California Zantac litigation Cases JCCP 5150 (JCCP), the
In 2019, the Group was contacted by several regulatory Court held a Sargon hearing regarding the admissibility of
authorities regarding the detection of N-Nitroso- expert witness testimony, including the testimony of general
dimethylamine (NDMA) in Zantac (ranitidine) products. Based and specific causation expert witnesses, for the first bellwether
on information available at the time and correspondence with trial. The hearing occurred over a four-day period in February
regulators, the Group made the decision to suspend the and March 2023. The first bellwether trial, which is a bladder
release, distribution and supply of all dose forms of Zantac to cancer case, was expected to start on 27 February 2023 in the
all markets pending the outcome of the ongoing tests and California JCCP, however the Court has moved the trial date to
investigations. Also, as a precautionary action, the Group 24 July 2023. Three other California bellwether trials have been
made the decision to initiate a voluntary pharmacy/retail level scheduled for May, August and October 2023, although these
recall of Zantac products globally. dates are likely to be extended as well.
On 30 April 2020, the European Medicines Agency (EMA) The Illinois Supreme Court recently consolidated all Illinois
recommended the suspension of ranitidine medicines. ranitidine cases in Cook County for pretrial proceedings with
Following the publication of the EMA’s recommendation, the trial dates to be set at a later date, including the previously
Company communicated a decision not to re-enter the scheduled Madison County trial.
market. In the US, FDA requested that all manufacturers
Beyond the personal injury actions, class actions alleging
withdraw ranitidine products from the market.
economic injury and a third-party payer class action also
The Group has been named as a defendant in approximately have been filed in federal court. Plaintiffs have moved to
4,500 personal injury cases in US state courts and the federal stay the class actions pending appeal of the Daubert ruling.
Zantac Multidistrict Litigation (MDL) court proceeding in the Defendants oppose the request for stay and are asking the
Southern District of Florida. There are approximately 84,000 Court to dismiss the class actions. Outside the US, there are
plaintiffs named in these cases. A significant majority of these seven class actions pending against the Group in Canada,
plaintiffs were named in a series of multi-plaintiff complaints along with a class action in Israel.
filed in Delaware state court and most of these plaintiffs were
Given the complex ownership and marketing of Zantac
previously in the MDL Census Registry. They were removed
prescription and over-the-counter (OTC) medicine over many
because they allege a cancer other than the 5 cancers being
years, numerous claims involve several defendants. As a result,
pursued by the MDL plaintiffs. In the MDL, plaintiffs originally
some defendants have served one another, including the
identified 10 different types of cancers they wished to pursue.
Group, with notice of potential indemnification claims about
Plaintiffs subsequently dropped 5 of the 10 cancers, and
possible liabilities connected particularly with Zantac OTC.
proceeded only as to bladder, esophageal, gastric, liver, and
Given the early stage of the proceedings, the Group cannot
pancreatic cancers, although plaintiffs in state courts continue
meaningfully assess what liability, if any, it may have, nor can it
to pursue claims beyond the 5 designated cancers. There are
meaningfully assess the liability of other parties under relevant
46,697 unfiled claims relating to the Group and other co-
indemnification provisions.
defendants (32,970 mapped to the Group) concerning the
5 designated cancers in the MDL Census Registry. There are In addition, on 20 March 2020, the Department of Justice
also over 2,000 California state court cases subject to an (DOJ) sent the Group notice of a civil investigation it had
agreement between the Group and the plaintiffs which opened into allegations of False Claims Act violations by the
suspends the statute of limitations to allow the plaintiffs to Group related to Zantac. On 18 June 2020, the DOJ served a
bring their claims at a later date. These filed and unfiled counts Civil Investigative Demand on the Group, formalizing its
are subject to change. request for documents. On the same day, the New Mexico
Attorney General filed a lawsuit against multiple defendants,
On 6 December 2022, the court presiding over the federal
including the Group, alleging violations of state consumer
MDL proceeding granted Defendants’ Daubert motions,
protection and false advertising statutes, among other claims.
finding that Plaintiffs’ experts’ causation opinions regarding
whether Zantac can cause the five cancers at issue in the MDL Zofran
(liver, bladder, pancreatic, esophageal, and stomach) are The Group was a defendant in over 400 product liability cases
unreliable and thus inadmissible. Without expert causation involving Zofran pending in a Multidistrict Litigation (MDL)
opinions, the MDL Court granted summary judgment to GSK proceeding in the District of Massachusetts. The cases alleged
and the other brand defendants. The MDL Court found that that children suffered birth defects due to their mothers’
“there is no scientist outside this litigation who concluded ingestion of Zofran and/or generic ondansetron for
ranitidine causes cancer, and the plaintiffs’ scientists within this pregnancy- related nausea and vomiting. Plaintiffs asserted
litigation systemically utilized unreliable methodologies,” and that the Group sold Zofran knowing it was unsafe for pregnant
failed to use “consistent, objective, science-based standards women, failed to warn of the risks and illegally marketed
for the even-handed evaluation of data.” This ruling effectively Zofran “off-label” for use by pregnant women.
dismissed approximately 2,200 filed cases in the MDL and is
binding on all of the claims in the Census Registry. Plaintiffs
have indicated they will appeal the MDL decision.
266GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the financial statements continued
267
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
47. Legal proceedings continued
On 1 June 2021, the MDL Court granted the Group’s motion for Lamictal
summary judgment on federal pre-emption grounds. The Purported classes of direct purchasers filed suit in the US
Court found that the FDA was fully informed of all relevant District Court for the District of New Jersey alleging that the
safety information regarding Zofran and had repeatedly Group and Teva Pharmaceuticals unlawfully conspired to
rejected any attempt to add a birth defect warning to the delay generic competition for Lamictal, resulting in
label. At that time, the Court granted judgment for the Group overcharges to the purchasers, by entering into an allegedly
in all cases pending in the MDL (approximately 431 cases) and anti-competitive reverse payment settlement to resolve patent
closed the MDL proceeding. Plaintiffs appealed this decision infringement litigation. A separate count accuses the Group of
and, on 9 January 2023, the United States Court of Appeals monopolising the market.
for the First Circuit affirmed the district court’s decision in
On 13 December 2018, the trial judge granted plaintiffs’ class
favour of the Group.
certification motion, certifying a class of direct purchasers. The
There remains one state court case and four proposed class Group filed a Rule 23(f) motion in the Court of Appeals for the
actions in Canada. Third Circuit, challenging the class certification decision. On
22 April 2020, the Court of Appeals vacated the lower court’s
Sales and marketing and regulation grant of class certification and remanded the issue back to the
The Group’s marketing and promotion of its Pharmaceutical lower court for further analysis.
and Vaccine products are the subject of certain governmental On 9 October 2020, the district court heard argument on
investigations and private lawsuits brought by litigants under plaintiffs’ renewed motion for class certification after remand.
various theories of law. On 9 April 2021, the district court denied Plaintiffs’ motion
GSK Korea – Proceedings under Fair Trade Laws for class certification of the putative direct purchaser class,
In August 2020, GSK Korea was indicted under Korea’s leaving a potential class of brand-only purchasers. Plaintiffs
Monopoly Regulation and Fair Trade laws in relation to moved to supplement their expert report and seek additional
government tenders of HPV (Cervarix) and PCV (Synflorix) discovery to support the addition of certain generic
vaccines in 2018 and 2019. The prosecutor alleged that GSK purchasers. On 21 January 2022, the district court denied
Korea, through the actions of at least one of its employees, Plaintiffs’ motion to supplement their expert report and seek
interfered with the tender process under the National additional discovery and held that the issue of generic
Immunisation Programme by using “straw bidders.” purchasers had already been decided and denied in the
court’s ruling on decertification. The parties have conducted
A former GSK Korea employee was also charged in his
briefing on class certification as to the remaining brand-only
individual capacity by the prosecutor in relation to the same
purchasers, with plaintiffs also seeking to add a smaller
matter. Further, a number of wholesalers are co-defendants in
category of purchasers.
the proceedings. On 1 February 2023, the court rendered a
guilty verdict in respect of all defendants. GSK Korea was fined On 1 February 2023, the district court denied Plaintiffs’
KRW 70 million which is approximately £45,000. Appeal renewed class certification motion. A follow-on complaint
proceedings are ongoing. was filed in the US District Court for the Eastern District of
Pennsylvania on 2 February 2023 by a group of alleged
The Korea Fair Trade Commission also has commenced
purchasers.
proceedings regarding the same matter. GSK Korea is
cooperating with the authorities on these matters.
Commercial and corporate
The Group is involved in certain contractual and/or
Anti-trust/competition
commercial disputes.
Certain governmental actions and private lawsuits have been
brought against the Group alleging violation of competition or Zejula Royalty Dispute
anti-trust laws. In October 2012, Tesaro, Inc. (now a wholly owned subsidiary of
GSK) entered into two worldwide patent license agreements
with AstraZeneca UK Limited related to niraparib (later
approved as Zejula). In May 2021, AstraZeneca filed a lawsuit
against Tesaro in the High Court, England and Wales alleging
that Tesaro failed to pay some of the royalties due under the
license agreements. Tesaro has counterclaimed based on a
calculated overpayment. A trial is scheduled for March 2023
.
48. Post balance sheet events
There is no material post balance sheet event that requires an adjustment or a disclosure within the financial statements.GSK Annual Report 2022
Company balance sheet – UK GAAP
(including FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’) as at 31 December 2022
2022 2022 2021 2021
Notes £m £m £m £m
Fixed assets – investments E 22,881 54,995
Current assets:
Trade and other receivables F 17,748 2,720
Cash at bank 20 17
Total current assets 17,768 2,737
Trade and other payables G (545) (598)
Total current liabilities (545) (598)
Net current assets 17,223 2,139
Total assets less current liabilities 40,104 57,134
Provisions for liabilities H (13) (12)
Other non-current liabilities I (645) (458)
Net assets 39,446 56,664
Capital and reserves
Share capital J 1,347 1,347
Share premium account J 3,440 3,301
Other reserves K 1,420 1,420
Retained earnings:
At 1 January 50,596 49,653
Profit/(loss) for the year 710 4,942
Treasury shares transferred to the ESOP Trust 1,089 –
Dividends in specie (15,689) –
Dividends paid to shareholders (3,467) (3,999)
K 33,239 50,596
Equity shareholders’ funds 39,446 56,664
The financial statements on pages 268 to 272 were approved by the Board on 9 March 2023 and signed on its behalf by
Sir Jonathan Symonds
Chair
GSK plc
Registered number: 3888792
Company statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 December 2022
Share Share premium Other Retained Total
capital account reserves earnings equity
£m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2021 1,346 3,281 1,420 49,653 55,700
Profit and Total comprehensive income attributable to shareholders – – – 4,942 4,942
Dividends to shareholders – – – (3,999) (3,999)
Shares issued under employee share schemes 1 20 – – 21
At 31 December 2021 1,347 3,301 1,420 50,596 56,664
Profit and Total comprehensive income attributable to shareholders – – – 710 710
Treasury shares transferred to the ESOP Trust 1,089 1,089
Dividends to shareholders (Note D) – – – (3,467) (3,467)
Dividends in specie (Note D) – – – (15,689) (15,689)
Shares issued under employee share schemes – 139 – – 139
At 31 December 2022 1,347 3,440 1,420 33,239 39,446
268GSK Annual Report 2022
269
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the company balance sheet –
UK GAAP
(including FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’)
A) Presentation of the financial statements The balance sheet has been prepared in accordance with the
company’s accounting policies approved by the Board and
Description of business
described in Note B. These policies have been consistently
GSK plc is the parent company of GSK, a major global
applied, unless otherwise stated.
biopharma group which makes innovative vaccines and
specialty medicines to prevent and treat disease. GSK’s R&D Key accounting judgements and estimates
focuses on the science of the immune system, human genetics No key accounting judgements or estimates were required in
and advanced technologies primarily in the following four the current year.
therapeutic areas: infectious diseases, HIV, oncology and
immunology/respiratory. B) Accounting policies
Preparation of financial statements Foreign currency transactions
The financial statements, which are prepared using the Foreign currency transactions are recorded at the exchange
historical cost convention (as modified to include the rate ruling on the date of transaction. Foreign currency assets
revaluation of certain financial instruments) and on a going and liabilities are translated at rates of exchange ruling at the
concern basis, are prepared in accordance with Financial balance sheet date.
Reporting Standard 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’ and
Dividends paid and received
with UK accounting presentation and the Companies Act 2006
Dividends paid and received are included in the financial
as at 31 December 2022, with comparative figures as at 31
statements in the period in which the related dividends are
December 2021.
actually paid or received.
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the
Expenditure
income statement of the company is not presented in this
Expenditure is recognised in respect of goods and services
Annual Report.
received when supplied in accordance with contractual terms.
The company is included in the Group financial statements of Provision is made when an obligation exists for a future liability
GSK plc, which are publicly available. in respect of a past event and where the amount of the
obligation can be reliably estimated.
The following exemptions from the requirements of IFRS have
been applied in the preparation of these financial statements, Investments in subsidiary companies
in accordance with FRS 101: Investments in subsidiary companies are held at cost less any
provision for impairment and also includes a capital
– Paragraphs 45(b) and 46 to 52 of IFRS 2, ‘Share-based
contribution in relation to movements in contingent
payment’
consideration.
– IFRS 7, ‘Financial Instruments – Disclosures’
Impairment of investments
– Paragraphs 91-99 of IFRS 13, ‘Fair value measurement’ The carrying value of investments are reviewed for impairment
– Paragraph 38 of IAS 1, ‘Presentation of financial statements’ when there is an indication that the investment might be
comparative information requirements in respect of impaired. One of the assessment methods used is to compare
paragraph 79(a) (iv) of IAS 1 the carrying value of each investment against its share of the
net assets value of the investment or against its share of the
– Paragraphs 10(d), 10(f), 16, 38(A), 38 (B to D), 40 (A to D),
valuation of the subsidiary based on expected discounted
111 and 134 to 136 of IAS 1, ‘Presentation of financial
cash flows. The total amount of investments is also evaluated
statements’
against the Group’s valuation on the basis of overall market
– IAS 7, ‘Statement of cash flows’ capitalisation. Any impairment charge is recognised in the
income statement in the year concerned.
– Paragraph 30 and 31 of IAS 8, ‘Accounting policies, changes
in accounting estimates and errors’ Assets held for sale/distribution
Non-current assets are held for disposal/demerger only if
– Paragraph 17 of IAS 24, ‘Related party disclosures’ and the
available for immediate disposal/demerger in their present
further requirement in IAS 24 to disclose related party
condition, a disposal/demerger is highly probable and
transactions entered into between two or more members
expected to be completed within one year from the date
of a Group.
of classification. Such assets are measured at the lower of
Accounting convention and standards carrying value and fair value less the cost of disposal.
The balance sheet has been prepared using the historical
Share-based payments
cost convention and complies with applicable UK accounting
The issuance by the company to its subsidiaries of a grant
standards.
over the company’s shares, represents additional capital
Accounting principles and policies contributions by the company in its subsidiaries. An additional
The preparation of the balance sheet in conformity with investment in subsidiaries results in a corresponding increase
generally accepted accounting principles requires in shareholders’ equity. The additional capital contribution is
management to make estimates and assumptions that affect based on the fair value of the grant issued, allocated over the
the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of underlying grant’s vesting period.
contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the balance
sheet. Actual amounts could differ from those estimates.GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the company balance sheet – UK GAAP
(including FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’) continued
Taxation Financial guarantees
Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid Liabilities relating to guarantees issued by the company on
applying tax rates that have been enacted or substantively behalf of its subsidiaries are initially recognised at fair value
enacted by the balance sheet date. and amortised over the life of the guarantee.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on
C) O perating profit
temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets
and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial A fee of £12,600 (2021: £12,600) relating to the audit of the
statements. Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the company has been charged in operating profit.
extent that they are considered recoverable against future
taxable profits.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are
expected to apply in the periods in which the temporary
differences are expected to be realised or settled. Deferred
tax liabilities and assets are not discounted.
D) Dividends
The Directors declared four interim dividends resulting in a dividend for the year of 61.25 pence adjusted for the share
consolidation. For further details, see Note 16 to the Group financial statements, ‘Dividends’.
In addition, the demerger of the Consumer Healthcare business was implemented by GSK declaring an interim dividend as
follows.
£m
Dividend in specie of Haleon plc shares distributed to external shareholders 15,526
Dividend in specie of Haleon plc shares distributed to the ESOP Trusts 163
15,689
E) Fixed assets – investments
2022 2021
£m £m
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Services Unlimited 637 637
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (One) Limited 18 18
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Holdings Limited 17,888 17,888
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Holdings Limited – 34,800
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Mercury Limited 33 33
Shares in GSK LP Limited 2,493 –
21,069 53,376
Capital contribution relating to share-based payments 1,139 1,139
Contribution relating to contingent consideration 673 480
22,881 54,995
The investments in GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Holdings Limited were derecognised of as part of the demerger of the
Consumer Healthcare business, which was executed in specie shares (see Note 41 to the Group financial statements).
F) Trade and other receivables
2022 2021
£m £m
Amounts due within one year:
UK Corporation tax recoverable – 9
Other debtors 2 –
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 17,422 2,319
17,424 2,328
Amounts due after more than one year:
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 324 392
17,748 2,720
The movement in the Amounts owed by Group undertakings in the period, as reflected within Notes F and G, primarily reflects the
receipt of dividend income from subsidiaries including the pre-demerger dividend from GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare
Holdings Limited and utilisation of the company’s current account to fund the payment of interim dividends.
270GSK Annual Report 2022
271
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the company balance sheet – UK GAAP
(including FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’) continued
G) Trade and other payables
2022 2021
£m £m
Amounts due within one year:
Other creditors 396 457
Contingent consideration payable 28 22
Corporation tax 18 –
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 103 119
545 598
The company has guaranteed debt issued by its subsidiary companies from one of which it receives fees. In aggregate, the company
has outstanding guarantees over £19.5 billion of debt instruments (2021: £22.4 billion). The amounts due from the subsidiary company
in relation to these guarantee fees will be recovered over the life of the bonds and are disclosed within ‘Trade and other receivables’
(see Note 26).
H) Provisions for liabilities
2022 2021
£m £m
At 1 January 12 7
Charge for the year 43 24
Utilised (42) (19)
At 31 December 13 12
The provisions relate to a number of legal and other disputes in which the company is currently involved.
I) Other non-current liabilities
2022 2021
£m £m
Contingent consideration payable 645 458
The contingent consideration relates to the amount payable for the acquisition in 2015 of the Novartis Vaccines portfolio. The
current year liability is included within ‘Trade and other payables’. For further details, see Note 33 to the Group financial
statements, ‘Contingent consideration liabilities’.
J) Share capital and share premium account
Share
premium
Ordinary shares account
Number £m £m
Share capital issued and fully paid
At 1 January 2021 5,385,189,617 1,346 3,281
Issued under employee share schemes 1,825,442 1 20
At 31 December 2021 5,387,015,059 1,347 3,301
Impact of share consolidation (1,077,403,011) – –
Issued under employee share schemes 1,731,293 – 25
Ordinary shares acquired by ESOP Trust – – 114
At 31 December 2022 4,311,343,341 1,347 3,440
At 31 December 2022, of the issued share capital, 59,878,735 shares were held in the ESOP Trusts, 217,124,760 shares were held as
Treasury shares and 4,034,339,846 shares were in free issue. All issued shares are fully paid and there are no shares authorised but
not in issue. The nominal, carrying and market values of the shares held in the ESOP Trusts are disclosed in Note 45, ‘Employee
share schemes’.GSK Annual Report 2022
Notes to the company balance sheet – UK GAAP
(including FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’) continued
K) Retained earnings and other reserves
The profit of GSK plc for the year was £710 million (2021: £4,942 million profit). After dividends paid and distributed in specie of
£19,156 million (including the Consumer Healthcare business demerger dividend of £15,689 million) (2021: £3,999 million), and the
effect of £1,089 million Treasury shares transferred to a subsidiary company (2021: £nil) retained earnings at 31 December 2022
stood at £33,239 million (2021: £50,596 million), of which £8,140 million was unrealised (2021: £38,896 million). Dividends to
shareholders are paid out of the realised profits of the company, which at 31 December 2022 amounted to £25,099 million (2021:
£11,700 million).
Other reserves includes a capital redemption reserve and a reserve reflecting historical contributions of shares in the company
which were issued to satisfy share option awards granted to employees of subsidiary companies.
L) Divestment
On 18 July 2022, GSK plc separated its Consumer Healthcare business from the GSK Group to form Haleon plc, an independent
listed company. The separation was effected by way of a demerger of 80.1% of GSK’s 68% holding in the Consumer Healthcare
business to GSK shareholders. Following the demerger, 54.47% of Haleon plc is held in aggregate by GSK Shareholders, 6.03% is
held by GSK (including shares received by GSK’s consolidated ESOT trusts) and 7.5% is held by three Scottish Limited Partnerships
(SLPs) set up to provide collateral for a funding mechanism pursuant to which GSK will provide additional funding for GSK’s UK
Pension Schemes. The aggregate ownership by GSK (including ownership by the ESOT trust and SLPs) after the demerger is 13.53%.
Following completion of the Consumer Healthcare business demerger, on 18 July 2022, GSK plc Ordinary shares were consolidated
in order to maintain share price comparability before and after demerger. The consolidation was approved by GSK plc
shareholders at a General Meeting held on 6 July 2022. Shareholders of GSK plc received 4 new Ordinary shares with a nominal
value of 31.25 pence each for each existing 5 Ordinary share which had a nominal value of 25 pence each.
M) Group companies
See pages 307 to 314 for a complete list of subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures and other significant shareholdings, which forms
part of these financial statements.
272GSK Annual Report 2022
Investor
information
In this section
Commercial Operations turnover 274
Three year record 276
Product development pipeline 278
Products, competition and intellectual property 282
Principal risks and uncertainties 285
Share capital and control 296
Dividends 298
Financial calendar 2023 299
Annual General Meeting 2023 299
Tax information for shareholders 299
Shareholder services and contacts 302
US law and regulation 304
Group companies 307
Glossary of terms 315
273GSK Annual Report 2022
Financial record
Commercial Operations turnover by therapeutic area 2022
Total US Europe International
2022 Growth 2022 Growth 2022 Growth 2022 Growth
£m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER%
HIV 5,749 20 12 3,756 30 17 1,310 10 10 683 - (3)
Dolutegravir products 5,191 14 6 3,311 19 8 1,239 8 8 641 - (3)
Tivicay 1,381 – (7) 823 8 (3) 273 (5) (4) 285 (14) (19)
Triumeq 1,799 (4) (11) 1,217 2 (8) 361 (20) (19) 221 (8) (9)
Juluca 636 23 14 494 26 13 127 14 15 15 15 8
Dovato 1,375 75 65 777 82 64 478 58 59 120 >100 >100
Rukobia 82 82 64 79 84 65 3 50 50 – – –
Cabenuva 340 >100 >100 294 >100 >100 40 >100 >100 6 >100 >100
Apretude 41 – – 41 – – – – – – – –
Others 95 (25) (29) 31 (37) (45) 28 (22) (22) 36 (14) (17)
Oncology 602 23 17 313 14 3 253 30 31 36 80 75
Zejula 463 17 12 235 11 – 194 19 20 34 70 75
Blenrep 118 33 25 66 8 (3) 52 86 86 – – –
Jemperli 21 >100 >100 13 >100 >100 8 >100 >100 – – –
Other – – – (1) – – (1) – – 2 – –
Immuno-inflamm. respiratory and other 2,609 29 20 1,830 29 16 366 13 13 413 45 47
Benlysta 1,146 31 20 949 31 18 83 22 22 114 44 43
Nucala 1,423 25 18 881 28 15 300 17 17 242 24 28
Other 40 >100 >100 – – – (17) – – 57 >100 >100
Specialty Medicines excl. pandemic 8,960 23 15 5,899 29 16 1,929 13 13 1,132 14 13
Pandemic 2,309 >100 >100 828 38 24 456 >100 >100 1,025 >100 >100
Xevudy 2,309 >100 >100 828 38 24 456 >100 >100 1,025 >100 >100
Specialty Medicines 11,269 37 29 6,727 30 17 2,385 34 35 2,157 69 70
Meningitis 1,116 16 11 573 26 14 362 2 3 181 18 20
Bexsero 753 16 12 333 32 19 337 3 4 83 20 23
Menveo 345 27 18 240 20 8 20 (5) (10) 85 67 71
Other 18 (54) (54) – – – 5 – – 13 (62) (62)
Influenza 714 5 (4) 549 20 9 57 (44) (44) 108 (11) (16)
Fluarix/Flulaval 714 5 (4) 549 20 9 57 (44) (44) 108 (11) (16)
Shingles 2,958 72 60 1,964 46 32 688 >100 >100 306 >100 >100
Shringrix 2,958 72 60 1,964 46 32 688 >100 >100 306 >100 >100
Established vaccines 3,085 4 – 1,157 18 7 720 3 4 1,208 (7) 8
Infanrix, Pediarix 594 9 3 327 8 (3) 131 13 13 136 10 6
Boostrix 594 14 7 360 33 20 138 (1) (1) 96 (14) (15)
Hepatitis 571 24 16 343 28 15 142 30 31 86 5 (1)
Rotarix 527 (3) (3) 95 (14) (23) 122 3 5 310 (1) 1
Synflorix 305 (15) (15) – – – 34 (24) (22) 271 (13) (14)
Priorix, Priorix Tetra, Varilrix 188 (28) (29) 10 – – 97 (22) (22) 81 (40) (43)
Cervarix 117 (15) (20) – – – 22 (12) (8) 95 (16) (22)
Others 189 26 26 22 (8) (17) 34 55 45 133 28 32
Vaccines excluding pandemic 7,873 24 17 4,243 31 18 1,827 27 28 1,803 8 6
Pandemic vaccines 64 (86) (86) – (100) (100) 57 – – 7 (97) (97)
Pandemic adjuvant 64 (86) (86) – (100) (100) 57 – – 7 (97) (97)
Vaccines 7,937 17 11 4,243 22 10 1,884 31 32 1,810 (3) (5)
Respiratory 6,548 8 3 3,209 10 (1) 1,384 3 3 1,955 10 9
Arnuity Ellipta 56 19 9 48 20 10 – – – 8 14 –
Anoro Ellipta 483 (4) (9) 233 (16) (24) 165 11 11 85 10 10
Avamys/Veramyst 321 8 6 – – – 65 – 2 256 10 8
Flixotide/Flovent 545 23 15 353 28 16 74 7 7 118 18 16
Incruse Ellipta 196 (4) (10) 104 (5) (14) 64 (9) (7) 28 8 –
Relvar/Breo Ellipta 1,145 2 (2) 498 2 (8) 347 4 4 300 – 2
Seretide/Advair 1,159 (15) (17) 308 (37) (43) 287 (11) (11) 564 3 1
Trelegy Ellipta 1,729 42 32 1,253 47 32 236 18 19 240 47 48
Ventolin 771 7 2 411 5 (5) 116 7 8 244 11 10
Other Respiratory 143 4 6 1 – – 30 11 7 112 2 5
Other General Medicines 3,570 (1) (2) 363 10 (1) 695 (14) (13) 2,512 1 2
Dermatology 376 (6) (5) (1) – – 107 (18) (18) 270 – 1
Augmentin 576 35 38 – – – 151 22 23 425 41 44
Avodart 330 (1) (3) – – – 107 (9) (8) 223 5 –
Lamictal 511 7 1 265 14 3 109 (3) (3) 137 2 –
Other 1,777 (10) (10) 99 – (9) 221 (31) (31) 1,457 (7) (6)
General Medicines 10,118 5 1 3,572 10 (1) 2,079 (3) (3) 4,467 5 5
Total Commercial Operations 29,324 19 13 14,542 22 10 6,348 18 19 8,434 14 14
274GSK Annual Report 2022
Financial record continued
275
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Commercial Operations turnover by therapeutic area 2021
Total US Europe International
2021 Growth 2021 Growth 2021 Growth 2021 Growth
£m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER%
HIV 4,777 (2) 3 2,898 (4) 3 1,194 (2) 1 685 4 11
Dolutegravir products 4,567 (3) 2 2,774 (6) – 1,151 (1) 1 642 7 14
Tivicay 1,381 (10) (4) 763 (12) (7) 286 (22) (20) 332 15 24
Triumeq 1,882 (18) (14) 1,190 (18) (13) 452 (20) (18) 240 (15) (12)
Juluca 517 4 10 393 2 8 111 14 18 13 18 27
Dovato 787 >100 >100 428 87 99 302 >100 >100 57 >100 >100
Rukobia 45 >100 >100 43 >100 >100 2 >100 >100 – – –
Cabenuva 38 >100 >100 32 – – 5 – – 1 >100 >(100)
Apretude – – – – – – – – – – – –
Others 127 (22) (18) 49 (8) (4) 36 (28) (26) 42 (30) (23)
Oncology 489 31 37 274 19 26 195 43 46 20 >100 >100
Zejula 395 17 22 212 3 10 163 27 30 20 >100 >100
Blenrep 89 >100 >100 61 >100 >100 28 >100 >100 – – –
Jemperli 5 >100 >100 2 – – 3 >100 >100 – – –
Other – – – (1) (>100) (>100) 1 >100 (>100) – – –
Immuno-Inflamm. respiratory and other 2,027 18 25 1,417 17 25 325 11 13 285 31 41
Benlysta 874 22 29 727 19 26 68 21 25 79 55 67
Nucala 1,142 15 22 690 15 23 257 8 11 195 23 34
Other 11 38 38 – – – – – – 11 38 38
Specialty Medicines excl. pandemic 7,293 5 10 4,589 3 10 1,714 4 7 990 12 20
Pandemic 958 – – 602 – – 69 – – 287 – –
Xevudy 958 – – 602 – – 69 – – 287 – –
Specialty Medicines 8,251 18 25 5,191 17 24 1,783 9 11 1,277 45 55
Meningitis 961 (7) (2) 453 5 11 354 (1) 2 154 (36) (30)
Bexsero 650 – 5 253 (3) 3 328 1 4 69 5 20
Menveo 272 3 9 200 16 23 21 (19) (15) 51 (23) (18)
Other 39 (66) (65) – – – 5 (17) (17) 34 (69) (68)
Influenza 679 (7) (2) 456 (15) (9) 101 3 6 122 22 28
Fluarix/Flulaval 679 (7) (2) 456 (15) (9) 101 3 6 122 22 28
Shingles 1,721 (13) (9) 1,344 (20) (15) 281 51 54 96 (25) (23)
Shringrix 1,721 (13) (9) 1,344 (20) (15) 281 51 54 96 (25) (23)
Established vaccines 2,970 (8) (4) 977 (7) (1) 700 (13) (10) 1,293 (6) (3)
Infanrix, Pediarix 543 (14) (9) 303 (3) 4 116 (33) (32) 124 (14) (10)
Boostrix 521 9 14 270 5 12 140 – 2 111 41 44
Hepatitis 460 (20) (16) 269 (19) (14) 109 (22) (21) 82 (20) (17)
Rotarix 541 (3) 1 111 (10) (4) 118 (1) 2 312 (2) 3
Synflorix 357 (11) (8) – – – 45 (15) (13) 312 (11) (7)
Priorix, Priorix Tetra, Varilrix 260 – 4 – – – 125 (1) 2 135 – 5
Cervarix 138 (1) – – – – 25 (17) (17) 113 4 5
Others 150 (21) (19) 24 (20) (13) 22 16 26 104 (26) (26)
Vaccines excluding pandemic 6,331 (9) (5) 3,230 (13) (7) 1,436 – 2 1,665 (10) (6)
Pandemic vaccines 447 – – 242 – – – – – 205 – –
Pandemic adjuvant 444 – – 242 – – – – – 202 – –
Others 3 – – – – – – – – 3 – –
Vaccines 6,778 (3) 2 3,472 (6) – 1,436 – 2 1,870 1 5
Respiratory 6,048 1 6 2,920 14 21 1,344 (7) (5) 1,784 (11) (5)
Arnuity Ellipta 47 4 11 40 8 16 – – – 7 (12) (13)
Anoro Ellipta 504 (8) (3) 278 (15) (9) 149 5 8 77 (1) 3
Avamys/Veramyst 298 – 7 – – – 65 (2) 2 233 1 8
Flixotide/Flovent 444 6 12 275 50 60 69 (14) (11) 100 (36) (32)
Incruse Ellipta 205 (7) (3) 109 (7) (2) 70 (5) (3) 26 (10) (7)
Relvar/Breo Ellipta 1,121 – 5 488 3 9 334 4 6 299 (9) (2)
Seretide/Advair 1,357 (12) (7) 486 12 19 322 (28) (27) 549 (16) (11)
Trelegy Ellipta 1,217 49 57 854 52 62 200 19 21 163 81 92
Ventolin 718 (9) (4) 390 (9) (3) 108 (7) (5) 220 (8) (3)
Other Respiratory 137 (36) (31) – – – 27 – – 110 (41) (36)
Other General Medicines 3,619 (15) (15) 331 (25) (20) 807 (21) (19) 2,481 (12) (13)
Dermatology 399 (6) (1) (1) >(100) >(100) 131 (6) (4) 269 (5) 2
Augmentin 426 (13) (7) – – – 124 (14) (12) 302 (12) (4)
Avodart 332 (29) (25) 1 (80) (80) 118 (25) (23) 213 (30) (25)
Lamictal 478 (11) (6) 232 (14) (9) 112 (7) (5) 134 (9) (3)
Other 1,984 (16) (19) 99 (40) (36) 322 (29) (27) 1,563 (10) (16)
General Medicines 9,667 (6) (3) 3,251 8 15 2,151 (13) (11) 4,265 (11) (10)
Total Commercial Operations 24,696 1 6 11,914 7 14 5,370 (3) (1) 7,412 (3) –GSK Annual Report 2022
Financial record continued
Three-year selected financial data
A record of financial performance is provided, analysed in accordance with current reporting practice. The information included in
the selected financial data (except for number of employees and adjusted results) is prepared in accordance with International
Accounting Standards in conformity with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and also with IFRS as issued by the
International Accounting Standards Board. Three year financial data is presented reflecting the restated results following the
demerger of the Consumer Healthcare business. The financial results of 2019 and 2018 are not restated and are not presented here.
2021 2020
2022 (revised)(1) (revised)(1)
Group turnover by geographic region £m £m £m
US 14,542 11,914 11,148
Europe 6,348 5,370 5,545
International 8,434 7,412 7,661
29,324 24,696 24,354
2021 2020
2022 (revised)(1) (revised)(1)
Group turnover by product group £m £m £m
Specialty Medicines 11,269 8,251 6,969
Vaccines 7,937 6,778 6,982
General Medicines 10,118 9,667 10,281
Consumer Healthcare(2) – – 122
29,324 24,696 24,354
2021 2020
2022 (revised)(1) (revised)(1)
Specialty Medicines turnover £m £m £m
HIV 5,749 4,777 4,876
Oncology 602 489 372
Immuno-inflammation and other 2,609 2,027 1,721
Pandemic 2,309 958 –
11,269 8,251 6,969
2022 2021 2020
Vaccines turnover £m £m £m
Meningitis 1,116 961 1,029
Influenza 714 679 733
Shingles 2,958 1,721 1,989
Established Vaccines 3,085 2,970 3,231
Pandemic Vaccines 64 447 –
7,937 6,778 6,982
2022 2021 2020
General Medicines £m £m £m
Respiratory 6,548 6,048 6,006
Other General Medicines 3,570 3,619 4,275
10,118 9,667 10,281
2022 2021(1) 2020(1)
Financial results – Total £m £m £m
Turnover 29,324 24,696 24,354
Profit after taxation from continuing operations 4,921 3,516 5,103
Profit after taxation from discontinued operations and other gains/(losses) from the demerger 3,049 1,580 1,285
Remeasurement of discontinued operations distributed to shareholders on demerger 7,651 – –
Profit after taxation from discontinued operations 10,700 1,580 1,285
Profit after taxation for the year 15,621 5,096 6,388
pence pence(3) pence(3)
Basic earnings per share from continuing operations 110.8p 82.9p 122.4p
Basic earnings per share from discontinued operations 260.6p 26.7p 22.0p
Total basic earnings per share 371.4p 109.6p 144.4p
Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations 109.2p 81.8p 120.9p
Diluted earnings per share from discontinued operations 257.0p 26.4p 21.7p
Total diluted earnings per share 366.2p 108,2p 142.6p
(1) G SK has revised its operating segments during the year. See Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements for more details.
(2) On 1 April 2020, GSK completed its divestment of Horlicks and other Consumer Healthcare nutrition products in India and a number of other countries (excluding
Bangladesh) to Unilever and the merger of GSK’s Indian listed Consumer Healthcare entity with Hindustan Unilever, an Indian listed public company, GSK
completed the divestment of Bangladesh on 30 June 2020.
(3) T he 2021 and 2020 comparatives have been restated on a consistent basis from those previously published to reflect the demerger of the Consumer
Healthcare business (see Note 41) and the impact of Share Consolidation (see Note 37) of the consolidated financial statements.
276GSK Annual Report 2022
Financial record continued
277
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Three year selected financial data continued
2022 2021(1) 2020(1)
Financial results – Adjusted £m £m £m
Turnover 29,324 24,696 24,354
Continuing operating profit 8,151 6,493 6,656
Continuing profit before taxation 7,358 5,774 5,851
Continuing profit after taxation 6,220 4,856 5,035
The reconciliations between Total and Adjusted operating profit over the last three years can be summarised as follows:
2022 2021(1) 2020(1)
£m £m £m
Total continuing operating profit 6,433 4,357 5,979
Intangible asset amortisation 739 761 724
Intangible asset impairment 296 347 200
Major restructuring 321 424 1,178
Transaction-related items 1,750 1,143 1,237
Divestments, significant legal and other items (1,388) (539) (2,662)
Adjusted continuing operating profit 8,151 6,493 6,656
The reconciliation between total and Adjusted earnings per share over the last three years can be summarised as follows:
pence pence(1) pence(1)
Total continuing earnings per share 110.8p 82.9p 122.4p
Intangible asset amortisation 14.6p 15.2p 14.6p
Intangible asset impairment 5.8p 6.6p 4.1p
Major restructuring 5.9p 8.7p 24.3p
Transaction-related items 34.1p 18.1p 19.0p
Divestments, significant legal and other items (31.5)p (21.2)p (70.0)p
Adjusted continuing earnings per share 139.7p 110.3p 114.4p
% % %
Return on capital employed n/m 25.8 35.6
For 2021 and 2022 return on capital employed is calculated as total profit before taxation as a percentage of average net assets
over the year and is not restated. Return on capital employed is not calculated for 2022 as it is not meaningful (n/m) as the
average net assets over the year include Consumer Healthcare.
Balance sheet 2022 2021 2020
Non-current assets 39,377 60,429 60,184
Current assets 20,769 18,674 20,247
Total assets 60,146 79,103 80,431
Current liabilities (22,810) (23,670) (22,148)
Non-current liabilities (27,240) (34,091) (37,475)
Total liabilities (50,050) (57,761) (59,623)
Net assets 10,096 21,342 20,808
Shareholders’ equity 10,598 15,055 14,587
Non-controlling interests (502) 6,287 6,221
Total equity 10,096 21,342 20,808
Number of employees 2022 2021(1) 2020(1)
US 11,946 14,289 15,706
Europe 31,800 38,809 40,711
International 25,654 36,998 37,649
69,400 90,096 94,066
Manufacturing 23,292 32,141 33,848
Selling 26,310 34,846 36,391
Administration 7,605 11,014 11,730
Research and development 12,193 12,095 12,097
69,400 90,096 94,066
The geographic distribution of employees in the table above is based on the location of GSK’s subsidiary companies. The number of
employees is the number of permanent employed staff at the end of the financial period. It excludes those employees who are
employed and managed by GSK on a contract basis.
(1) T he employee numbers have not been restated for the purposes of the Consumer Healthcare demerger.GSK Annual Report 2022
Pipeline, products and competition
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines product development pipeline
Key † I n-license or other alliance relationship with third party EUA Emergency Use Authorisation
^ V iiV Healthcare, a global specialist HIV company with Phase I E valuation of clinical pharmacology, usually conducted
GSK, Pfizer, Inc. and Shionogi Limited as shareholders, in volunteers
is responsible for developing and delivering HIV medicines Phase II D etermination of dose and initial evaluation of efficacy,
BLA Biological Licence Application conducted in a small number of patients
MAA Marketing Authorisation Application (Europe) Phase III L arge comparative study (compound versus placebo
NDA New Drug Application (US) and/or established treatment) in patients to establish
A Approved clinical benefit and safety
S Submitted
MAA and NDA/BLA regulatory review milestones shown in the table below are those that have been achieved. Future filing dates are not included in this list.
Achieved regulatory
review milestones
Compound Mechanism of Action/Vaccine Type Indication Phase MAA NDA/BLA
Oncology
momelotinib† JAK1, JAK2 and ACVR1 inhibitor myelofibrosis Registration S:Nov22 S:Jun22
Jemperli Anti-Programmed Cell Death protein 1 receptor 1L endometrial cancer III
(dostarlimab)† (PD-1) antibody 1L endometrial cancer combination with III
Zejula (niraparib)
Non-small cell lung cancer1 II
Zejula Poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) 1/2 inhibitor 1L maintenance ovarian cancer combination III
(niraparib)† with Jemperli (dostarlimab)
1L maintenance non small cell lung cancer III
(NSCLC) combination with pembrolizumab
Pre-metastatic, select biomarker population III
Breast Cancer
Blenrep ADC targeting B-cell maturation antigen 2L+ multiple myeloma combination with III
(belantamab Pomalyst and dexamethasone
mafodotin)† 2L+ multiple myeloma combination with III
Velcade and dexamethasone
Multiple myeloma in combination with II
anti-cancer treatments (platform study)
1L multiple myeloma combination with Velcade, I
Revlimid and dexamethasone
cobolimab† Anti-T-cell immunoglobulin and mucin domain-3 Non-small cell lung cancer combination with III
(TIM-3) antibody Jemperli (dostarlimab) and docetaxel
4428859 anti-TIGIT Non-small cell lung cancer combination with II
(EOS884448)† Jemperli (platform study)
4074386† Anti-lymphocyte activation gene-3 (LAG-3) Cancer I
antibody
4381562† anti-PVRIG Cancer I
3745417 STING cytosolic DNA pathway agonist Advanced solid tumors I
Myeloid malignancies I
6097608† anti-CD96 Cancer I
XMT-20562 STING agonist ADC Cancer I
(wholly owned
by Mersana
Therapeutics)
HIV^
Apretude HIV integrase strand transfer inhibitor (long-acting) HIV pre-exposure prophylaxis Approved S:Jun22 A: Dec21
(cabotegravir) HIV infection (400 mg/ml formulation) I
3640254 HIV maturation inhibitor HIV infection II3
3810109† HIV broadly neutralising antibody HIV infection II
3739937 HIV maturation inhibitor HIV infection I
4004280 HIV capsid protein inhibitor HIV infection I
4011499 HIV capsid protein inhibitor HIV infection I
4524184† HIV integrase inhibitor HIV infection I
Brand names appearing in italics are trade marks owned by or licensed to the GSK group of companies.
Footnotes
1 non-registrational
2 GSK has an exclusive global license option to co-develop and commercialize the candidate
3 will not progress to Phase 3
278GSK Annual Report 2022
279
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Pipelines, products and competition continued
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines product development pipeline continued
Achieved regulatory
review milestones
Compound Mechanism of Action/Vaccine Type Indication Phase MAA NDA/BLA
Infectious Diseases
Xevudy (sotrovimab)† Anti-spike protein antibody COVID-19 Approved A:Dec21 EUA:
May214
Priorix (MMR vaccine) Live attenuated Measles, mumps, rubella prophylaxis (US) Approved A: Jun22
Menveo vaccine Conjugated-liquid formulation Meningococcal A, C, W, Y disease prophylaxis Approved A: Oct22
in adolescents
Rotarix vaccine Live attenuated, PCV (Porcine circovirus) Rotavirus prophylaxis (US) Approved A: Nov22
free
VidPrevtyn Beta Recombinant protein-adjuvanted COVID-19 Approved A: Nov22
COVID-19 vaccine vaccine
(Sanofi)† 5
3844766 Recombinant protein – adjuvanted Respiratory syncytial virus prophylaxis in older adult Registration S:Oct22 S:Oct22
(RSV vaccine)† vaccine population 60 years of age and older
Respiratory syncytial virus prophylaxis in older adult III
population 50-59 years of age
SKYCovione Recombinant protein nanoparticle- COVID-19 Registration6S:Jul22
(SK Bioscience)† 5 adjuvanted vaccine
gepotidacin† Triazaacenaphthylene bacterial type II Uncomplicated urinary tract infection (uUTI) III
topoisomerase inhibitor Urogenital gonorrhea (GC) III
bepirovirsen † HBV antisense Hepatitis B III
Hepatitis B sequential therapy with Pegylated II
Interferon
Bexsero vaccine Recombinant protein vaccine Meningococcal B disease prophylaxis 2 months of III
age and older (US)
3536819 Recombinant protein – conjugated Meningococcal A, B, C, W, Y disease prophylaxis III
(Men ABCWY vaccine) vaccine in adolescents
tebipenem pivoxil† Antibacterial carbapenem Complicated urinary tract infection (UTI)7 III
3036656† Leucyl t-RNA synthetase inhibitor Tuberculosis II
BVL-GSK098† Ethionamide booster Tuberculosis II
VIR-2482† 8 Neutralizing monoclonal antibody Influenza II
3437949† Recombinant protein – adjuvanted Malaria prophylaxis (Plasmodium falciparum) II
(Malaria fractional vaccine
dose)
3536852† Generalized Modules for Membrane Shigella diarrhea prophylaxis II
Antigens (GMMA) vaccine
3528869† Prime-boost with viral vector co- or Treatment of chronic Hepatitis B infections – aims at II
(Therapeutic HBV) sequentially administrated with functional cure by controlling and resolving the
adjuvanted recombinant proteins clinical sequelae of the infection and reducing the
need for further treatment
4023393 Recombinant protein – conjugated Meningococcal A, B, C, W, Y disease prophylaxis in II
(Men ABCWY, 2nd Gen)vaccine adolescents and children 6 weeks and older
4178116 Live attenuated vaccine Active immunization for the prevention of varicella in II
(Varicella new strain) individuals from 12 months of age and older
sanfetrinem cilexetil† Serine beta lactamase inhibitor Tuberculosis II
4106647† Recombinant protein-adjuvanted Active immunization of girls and women, boys II
vaccine and men (9-45 years), for the prevention of cancer,
genital warts and precancerous or dysplastic
lesions (girls, boys AIN only) caused by Human
papillomavirus (HPV)
Brand names appearing in italics are trade marks owned by or licensed to the GSK group of companies.
Footnotes
4 As of Apr22, sotrovimab is no longer authorized to treat COVID-19 in U.S. due to increases in the proportion of COVID-19 cases caused by the Omicron BA.2
sub-variant
5 GSK is contributing pandemic adjuvant to COVID-19 vaccines collaborations
6 Approved in South Korea (Jun22)
7 Phase 2 or 3 study start expected in 2023
8 GSK has exclusive option to co-develop post Phase 2GSK Annual Report 2022
Pipelines, products and competition continued
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines product development pipeline continued
Achieved regulatory
review milestones
Compound Mechanism of Action/Vaccine Type Indication Phase MAA NDA/BLA
Infectious Diseases continued
4388067 Targeted Immunotherapy (viral vector; Treatment of chronic Hepatitis B virus infection II
(CHBV ASO combo)† adjuvanted recombinant proteins) & in individuals >18 years without decompensated
Direct Acting Antiviral (GSK's cirrhosis
bepirovirsen)
5101955† Vaccine using Multiple Antigen Prevention of pneumonia and invasive II
Presenting System (MAPS) platform pneumococcal disease caused by the
Streptococcus pneumoniae 24 serotypes included
in the vaccine in children aged 6 weeks – 17 years.
5101956† Vaccine using Multiple Antigen Prevention of pneumonia and invasive II
Presenting System (MAPS) platform pneumococcal disease caused by the
Streptococcus pneumoniae 24 serotypes included
in the vaccine in adults aged 18 years and older
4406371 Live attenuated vaccine Active immunization for the prevention of measles, II
(MMRV new strain) mumps, rubella, and varicella in children 12 months
through 12 years of age
3882347† FimH antagonist Uncomplicated urinary tract infection (uUTI) I
3186899† 9 CRK-12 inhibitor Visceral leishmaniasis I
3494245† Proteasome inhibitor Visceral leishmaniasis I
2556286† Mtb cholesterol dependent inhibitor Tuberculosis I
4182137 (VIR-7832)† Anti-spike protein antibody COVID-19 I
3923868 PI4K beta inhibitor Viral COPD exacerbations I
2904545† Recombinant protein – adjuvanted Active immunization for the prevention of the primary I
vaccine C. difficile diseases and for prevention of recurrences
4429016† Recombinant protein – bioconjugated Klebsiella pneumoniae prophylaxis I
– adjuvanted vaccine
3993129 Recombinant subunit – adjuvanted Cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection prophylaxis in I
vaccine females 16-49 years of age
4382276† mRNA vaccine Active immunization for the prevention of disease I
caused by influenza viruses in adults 18 years and
older
4396687† mRNA vaccine Active immunization to prevent COVID-19 disease I
caused by SARS-CoV-2 virus in individuals 12 years
and older
3943104† Recombinant protein-adjuvanted Active immunization to suppress recurrence of I
(Therapeutic HSV) Genital Herpes in adults aged 18 years and older.
4077164† Bivalent Generalized Modules for Invasive non-typhoidal salmonella I
Membrane Antigens (GMMA) vaccine
4077164† Bivalent Generalized Modules for Invasive non-typhoidal salmonella and typhoid I
Membrane Antigens (GMMA) vaccine fever
and typhoid conjugate vaccine (TCV)
3536867† Bivalent Typhoid and Paratyphoid A Salmonella typhoid and paratyphoid (A) enteric feverI
conjugate
3965193 PAPD5/PAPD7 inhibitor Hepatitis B I
5251738† TLR8 agonist Hepatitis B I
3772701† P falciparum whole cell inhibitor Malaria I
(pyrrolidine amides)
4348413 Generalized Modules for Membrane Active immunization to prevent gonorrhea in I
Antigens (GMMA) vaccine individuals age 16 years and older, regardless of
previous gonorrhea infection history
Brand names appearing in italics are trade marks owned by or licensed to the GSK group of companies.
Footnotes
9 Transition activities underway to enable further progression by partner
280GSK Annual Report 2022
281
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Pipelines, products and competition continued
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines product development pipeline continued
Achieved regulatory
review milestones
Compound Mechanism of Action/Vaccine Type Indication Phase MAA NDA/BLA
Immunology and Respiratory
Nucala (mepolizumab) Anti-IL5 COPD III
depemokimab† Anti-IL5 (long-acting) Asthma III
Chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps (CRSwNP) III
Eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis (EGPA) III
Hypereosinophilic syndrome (HES) III
latozinemab† Anti-Sortilin monoclonal antibody Frontotemporal Dementia (FTD) due to III
Heterozygous Mutations in the Progranulin Gene
Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) II
Frontotemporal Dementia (FTD) due to Mutations II
in the C9orf72 Gene
Benlysta B lymphocyte stimulator monoclonal Systemic sclerosis associated interstitial lung II
(belimumab) antibody disease7
3858279† Anti-CCL17 Osteoarthritis pain I
4527226 (AL101)† Anti-sortilin monoclonal antibody Neurodegenerative disease I
1070806 Anti-IL18 Atopic dermatitis I
3888130† Anti-IL7 Multiple sclerosis (MS) I
Opportunity Driven
Jesduvroq
Prolyl hydroxylase inhibitor Anaemia of chronic kidney disease Approved S:Feb22 A:Feb23
(daprodustat)
linerixibat Ileal bile acid transporter (IBAT) Cholestatic pruritus in PBC (primary biliary III
inhibitor cholangitis)
4532990† HSD17B13 silencer Non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH)7 II
4172239† DNMT1 inhibitor Sickle cell disease10 I
Brand names appearing in italics are trade marks owned by or licensed to the GSK group of companies.
Footnotes
7 Phase 2 or 3 study start expected in 2023
10 Imminent study startGSK Annual Report 2022
Pipelines, products and competition continued
Pharmaceutical products, competition and intellectual property
Major Patent expiry dates1
Products Compounds Indication(s) competitor brands US EU
Respiratory
Anoro Ellipta umeclidinium bromide/ COPD Spiolto/Stiolto Respimat, 2027 2029
vilanterol trifenatate Utibron/Ultibro (NCE) (NCE)
Breezhaler, Duaklir 2027-2030 2022-2026
Genuair (device) (device)
Bevespi Aerosphere,
Brimica Genuair
Avamys/Veramyst fluticasone furoate Allergic rhinitis Dymista, Xhance, expired expired
Nasonex, Fluticasone Gx
Relvar/Breo Ellipta fluticasone furoate/ Asthma, COPD Symbicort, Foster, 2025 2027
vilanterol trifenatate Budesonide/Formoterol (NCE) (NCE)
Gx Sirdupla, Dulera 2027-2030 2022-2026
(device) (device)
Seretide/Advair salmeterol xinafoate/ Asthma, COPD Symbicort, Foster, expired expired
fluticasone propionate Budesonide/ (Diskus device) (Diskus device)
Formoterol Gx 2023-2026 expired
Sirdupla, Dulera (HFA-device) (HFA-device)
Trelegy Ellipta fluticasone furoate/ COPD, asthma Trimbow pMDI/ 2027 2029
vilanterol trifenatate NEXThaler, Breztri (NCE) (NCE)
umeclidinium bromide Aerosphere, Trixeo 2027-2030 2022-2026
Aerosphere, Enerzair (device) (device)
Breezhaler
Ventolin HFA Salbutamol sulphate Asthma, COPD generic companies 2023-2026 expired
(HFA-device) (HFA-device)
Xevudy sotrovimab Early treatment of REGEN-COV, 2041 NA
COVID-19 bamlanivimab/ (NBE)
etesevimab, Evusheld
Central nervous system
Lamictal lamotrigine Epilepsy, bipolar disorder Vimpat, Trokendi XR, expired expired
Inovelon, Keppra
Keppra levetiracetam Epilepsy Briviact, Vimpat, NA NA
Lamictal, Depakene,
Depacon
Cardiovascular and urogenital
Avodart & Duodart dutasteride Benign prostatic Generic products, expired expired
dutasteride + tamsulosin hyperplasia (BPH) Finasteride, Alpha
Blockers
Anti-bacterials
Augmentin Amoxicillin trihydrate/potassium Common bacterial Generic products NA expired
clavulanate infections (Clavam, Moxikind-CV,
Enhancin, Curam,
Calamox)
Oral Cephalosporins
– Cefuroxime axetil,
Cefixime, Cefpodoxime,
Cefdinir, Cephalexin
Oral Macrolides –
Azithromycin,
Clarithromycin
1 Includes Supplementary Protection Certificates which were granted in multiple countries in EU (including the UK) and patent term extensions granted in the US.
282GSK Annual Report 2022
283
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Pipelines, products and competition continued
Pharmaceutical products, competition and intellectual property continued
Major Patent expiry dates1
Products Compounds Indication(s) competitor brands US EU
Dermatology
Dermovate, Clobetasol propionate, Inflammatory skin Generic products, Not marketed Expired
Betnovate, Betamethasone valerate, conditions Other topical in US
Cutivate, Fluticasone propionate, corticosteroids like
Eumovate Clobetasone butyrate Mometasone furoate,
Methylprednisolone
aceponate and
Hydrocortisone.
Oncology
Zejula niraparib ovarian cancer Lynparza, Rubraca 2031 2028
(NCE) (NCE)
Blenrep belantamab mafodotin relapsed/refractory Sarclisa, Xpovio 2032 2032
multiple myeloma
Jemperli dostarlimab dMMR recurrent or Keytruda 2034 2034
advanced endometrial (NBE) (NBE)
cancer, solid tumours
Immuno-inflammation
Benlysta, Benlysta belimumab systemic lupus erythematosus, Lupkynis, Saphnelo 2025 2026
(SC and IV) lupus nephritis
Jesduvroq, Duvroq Daprodustat anaemia of chronic kidney Evrenzo (roxadustat), 2027 2027
disease vadadustat (NCE) (NCE)
HIV
Apretude Cabotegravir HIV prevention Descovy, Truvada 2026 2026
(NCE) (NCE)
Cabenuva/Vocabria Cabotegravir, rilpivirine HIV/AIDS Descovy, Genvoya, 2026 2026
+ Rekambys Odefsey, Biktarvy (NCE) (NCE)
Rukobia Fostemsavir HIV/AIDS Trogarzo 2025 2025
(NCE) (NCE)
Dovato Dolutegravir, lamivudine HIV/AIDS Descovy, Genvoya, 2027 2029
Odefsey, Biktarvy (NCE) (NCE)
Juluca Dolutegravir, rilpivirine HIV/AIDS Descovy, Genvoya, 2027 2029
Odefsey, Biktarvy (NCE) (NCE)
Triumeq Dolutegravir, lamivudine and HIV/AIDS Descovy, Genvoya, 2027 2029
abacavir Odefsey, Biktarvy (NCE) (NCE)
Tivicay Dolutegravir HIV/AIDS Isentress, Prezista 2027 2029
Symtuza, Reyataz, (NCE) (NCE)
Biktarvy
1 See Note 47 to the financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’.
2 Includes Supplementary Protection Certificates which were granted in multiple countries in EU (including the UK), and patent term extensions granted in the US.
a Related compounds/indications are measles, mumps and rubella vaccine/prophylaxisb.
b Related compound is varicella vaccine.GSK Annual Report 2022
Pipelines, products and competition continued
Vaccine products, competition and intellectual property
Major Patent expiry dates2
Products Compounds Indication(s) competitor brands US EU
Bexsero meningococcal group-B vaccine Meningitis group B prevention Trumenba 2027 2028
Boostrix diphtheria, tetanus, acellular diphtheria, tetanus, acellular Adacel expired expired
pertussis Pertussis booster vaccination
Infanrix Hexa/Pediarix diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, Prophylaxis against diphtheria, Pentacel, Pediacel, expired expired
polio, hepatitis B, Haemophilus tetanus, pertussis, polio, Pentaxim, Pentavac,
influenzae type B (EU) hepatitis B, Haemophilus Hexaxim, Hexyon
influenzae type B (EU) Vaxelis
Cervarix HPV 16 & 18 virus like human papilloma virus Gardasil (Silgard) 2028 expired
particles (VLPs), AS04 type 16 and 18
adjuvant (MPL + aluminium
hydroxide)
Fluarix Tetra split inactivated influenza seasonal influenza prophylaxis Intenza, Flumist QIV, expired expired
antigens (2 virus subtypes A Vaxigrip QIV,
and 2 subtype B) Fluzone QIV,
Fluzone High Dose
FluLaval split inactivated influenza seasonal influenza prophylaxis Vaxigrip, Mutagrip, expired expired
antigens (2 virus subtypes A Fluzone, Influvac,
and 2 subtype B) Aggripal, Fluad,
Intenza, Flumist
Menveo meningococcal group A, C, W- Meningitis group A, C, W-135 Nimenrix, Menactra 2025 2025
135 and Y conjugate vaccine and Y prophylaxis
Priorix, Priorix Tetraa,b live attenuated measles, mumps, measles, mumps, rubella and MMR II (M-M-RVaxPro) expired expired
Varilrixb rubella and varicella vaccine chickenpox prophylaxis Proquad, Varivax
Rotarix Human rotavirus RIX4414 strain Rotavirus prophylaxis Rotateq 2022 2026
Synflorix conjugated pneumococcal Prophylaxis against invasive Prevenar (Prevnar) NA 2026
polysaccharide disease, pneumonia,
acute otitis media
Shingrix zoster vaccine herpes zoster Zostavax 2029 2031
recombinant, adjuvanted (shingles)
1 See Note 47 to the financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’.
2 Includes Supplementary Protection Certificates which were granted in multiple countries in EU (including the UK), and patent term extensions granted in the US.
a Related compounds/indications are measles, mumps and rubella vaccine/prophylaxisb.
b Related compound is varicella vaccine.
284GSK Annual Report 2022
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Principal risks and uncertainties
We outline below the principal risks and uncertainties relevant More detail on the status and various uncertainties in our
to GSK’s business, financial condition and operations that may significant unresolved disputes and potential litigation is set out
affect our performance and ability to achieve our objectives. in Note 47, ‘Legal proceedings.’
These are the risks that we believe could cause our actual
More details regarding our risk management framework and
results to differ materially from expected and historical results.
how we identify our principal risks can be found on pages 51
Operating in the biopharmaceutical sector carries various to 54 and incorporated herein. Other risks, not at the level of
inherent risks and uncertainties that may affect our business. principal risk, and opportunities, related to Environmental,
Social, and Governance (ESG), including environmental
We must comply with a broad range of laws and regulations
sustainability and climate change, are managed through our
which apply to the research and development, manufacturing,
six focus areas, as described in our ESG Performance Report.
testing, approval, distribution, sales, and marketing of
Additional information on climate related risk management is
pharmaceutical and vaccine products. These affect the cost of
in our climate related financial disclosure. See pages 55 to 62.
product development, the time required to reach the market and
the likelihood of doing so successfully on an uninterrupted basis. UK regulations require a description of principal risks and
uncertainties and explanation of how these are being
As rules and regulations change, government interpretation
managed or mitigated. Below is a description of each of our
evolves, and our business activities develop, the nature of a
principal risks together with a summary of how we manage
particular risk may also alter. Changes to regulatory regimes
each risk across our businesses. They are not listed in order of
may be substantial. Any alteration in, and failure to comply
significance and are consistent with the principal risks detailed
with, applicable laws and regulations could materially and
on pages 53 to 54. In July 2022, the Board agreed that
adversely affect our financial results.
Separation was no longer a principal risk following the
Similarly, our global business exposes us to litigation and successful demerger and analysis of any residual risk.
government investigations, including product liability litigation,
patent and antitrust litigation and sales and marketing
litigation. Litigation and government investigations, and the
related provisions we may make for unfavourable outcomes
and increases in related costs such as insurance premiums,
could also materially and adversely affect our financial results.
Patient safety
Risk definition Context
The risk that GSK, including our third parties, potentially fails to We are fully accountable for safeguarding patients; our failure
appropriately collect, review, follow up, or report human safety to do so effectively could result most importantly in harm to
information, including adverse events, from all potential patients, as well as reputational damage and/or product
sources or that GSK potentially fails to act on any relevant liability litigation. We conduct internal safety surveillance and
findings in a timely manner. rely on access to safety information from external sources.
Information on the safety and efficacy of our products in
Risk impact
humans is collected during clinical development, with more
GSK will not tolerate an unfavourable benefit-to-risk profile for comprehensive information incorporated from real-world use
patients who use our products. As the most important once our products are marketed. There are examples of
consequence of ineffective pharmacovigilance is the potential regulatory agencies using real-world evidence from sources
for harm to patients, we maintain robust processes for which may not be accessible to the industry to supplement and
managing human safety information, conducting timely safety validate the evidence we use to support the safety and efficacy
signal detection, and ensuring appropriate measures are in of our products. There is a potential emerging risk that
place to manage risks to patients. GSK also intends to fully technology companies or other data custodians may similarly
comply with pharmacovigilance and other relevant regulations draw and communicate conclusions about the safety of our
worldwide. Non-compliance could result in inspection findings, products based on digital health data collected through their
regulatory scrutiny, civil or criminal sanctions and either platforms that is inaccessible by either the industry or
temporary or permanent loss of product marketing regulatory agencies.
authorisation. We regularly review and respond to all patient
safety risks to limit the potential for reputational damage, loss
of trust by patients and healthcare providers, product-related
litigation, and loss of shareholder confidence.
285GSK Annual Report 2022
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Patient safety continued
Our licence to operate depends on our compliance with Our Third Party Oversight framework ensures that third parties
regulatory requirements worldwide, not only those directly who may encounter human safety information are identified
related to patient safety but extending to privacy and and trained appropriately. We manage safety information for
information security regulations as well. Regulatory all products and from all sources in compliance with global
compliance depends on appropriate identification and regulations. This information allows us to detect safety signals
management of human safety information by all employees for our products and take timely action on information that
and third parties acting on our behalf. We are pursuing changes a product’s risk/benefit profile.
innovative solutions to enhance our ability to perform
Any actions are discussed beforehand with regulatory
pharmacovigilance, including Artificial Intelligence and
authorities, and can include updating the prescribing
Machine Learning technology to augment our capacity to
information, communicating with healthcare providers,
manage increasing volumes of adverse event reports from
restricting product prescribing/availability to help assure safe
varied sources, and advancing technical solutions for
use, and carrying out further clinical trials. In certain cases, it
delivering safety information and risk minimisation measures to
may be appropriate to stop clinical trials or to withdraw a
patients and health care providers.
product (or a specific batch) from the market.
The COVID-19 pandemic has had an impact on
In 2022, we completed the simplification and optimisation of
pharmacovigilance activities by increasing public focus on
our core patient safety processes, which we expect to improve
safety and efficacy of medicines and vaccines, highlighting the
cross-functional stakeholder engagement in safety activities
importance of robust business continuity planning for
across GSK. We began automated end-to-end processing of
uninterrupted safety oversight and regulatory compliance
individual case safety reports to deliver better case quality
(including the ability to accommodate remote regulatory
and consistency as well as enhanced efficiency. Our
inspections), and accelerating automation to manage
Pharmacovigilance Operations model expanded to ensure
increasing volumes of adverse events.
connectivity between central and local safety teams. We have
created resources for R&D leaders that enable them to
Mitigating activities
advocate the need for industry access to safety data from all
Our Chief Medical Officer is accountable for the Patient Safety
sources as the best way to safeguard patients. In 2023, we will
enterprise risk and human safety matters, in collaboration with
transition from a two-vendor to a single-vendor model for key
the Head of Global Safety. A cross-enterprise safety governance
operational activities which will improve efficiency and reduce
board oversees implementation of our control framework,
the risk of regulatory non-compliance. We will also expand our
including risk management. Our Global Safety Board ensures
Global Safety team to include additional expertise to optimise
that we address human safety proactively throughout a
our strategy and approach to product-related risk mitigation/
product’s lifecycle. Our global policy on management of human
minimisation.
safety information requires that all employees immediately
report issues relating to the safety of our products.
Product quality
Risk definition Context
The risk that GSK or our third parties potentially fail to ensure The external environment for product quality remains
appropriate controls and governance of quality for challenging, with increased cyber-attacks and data breaches
development and commercial products; compliance with across the industry. Cyber-attacks remain a key risk to the
industry practices and regulations in manufacturing and integrity of product quality data and its audit trail. We met our
distribution activities; and terms of GSK product licenses and commitments for the 2021 European Medicines Agency (EMA)
supporting regulatory activities. requirements for licensing of Medical Devices. We continue to
plan for the deployment of the New Annex 1 guidance for the
Risk impact
manufacture of Sterile Medicinal products which was published
A failure to ensure product quality could have far-reaching in September 2022 and sets an expectation for compliance by
implications for patient safety, cause product launch delays, August 2023. We are actively managing this implementation in
drug shortages or product recalls, and have regulatory, legal, the context of global equipment and component supply chain
and financial consequences. These could materially and constraints effecting the industry. We are increasingly applying
adversely affect GSK’s reputation and financial results. advanced digital technologies and insights to drive scientific
excellence to enhance the development, manufacture and
testing of our products. For example, we use new electronic
documentation systems and advanced laboratory information
management tools. Our quality organisations are aligned to
make sure quality procedures and governance can facilitate
the new company strategy. Pre-pandemic levels of on-site
inspections have resumed, and we continue to take steps to
ensure our inspection readiness.
286GSK Annual Report 2022
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Product quality continued
Mitigating activities We have implemented a risk-based approach to assessing
and managing third party suppliers that provide materials
We align an extensive global network of quality and
used in our finished products. We expect contract
compliance professionals, from site-level to senior
manufacturers that make our products to comply with GSK
management within each business unit to provide oversight
standards and regularly conduct audits to provide us with
and assist with the delivery of quality performance and
assurance that they do. We have product incident committee
operational compliance. We deliver this management
processes in place to investigate product issues and make
oversight through a hierarchy of quality councils, an
recommendations on remediation activities including, where
independent chief product quality officer and a global product
necessary, the recall of medicines and vaccines to protect our
quality office that oversees product quality risk across the
patients and the public.
company. We have developed and implemented a single
quality management system that defines the quality standards Our established complaint process ensures we respond
and systems for our businesses associated with the appropriately to product quality issues raised by patients.
development and commercialisation of our vaccines, specialty, Independent functions review and triage allegations of
and general medicines. A consolidation of regulatory noncompliance or misconduct received through formal and
requirements from markets across the world augments this informal ‘Speak Up’ channels. Global disciplinary and
system, which means it meets external expectations for enforcement procedures apply to any breaches of our
product quality in the markets we supply. Our system is based standards, and are initiated, as appropriate, following
on the internationally recognised principles from the ICH Q10 investigations. We use key risk indicators to support risk
pharmaceutical quality system framework. management activities and provide GSK’s Leadership Team
and Risk Oversight and Compliance Council with an integrated
We routinely update our quality management system (QMS),
assessment of product quality performance. We have so it keeps pace with the evolving external regulatory
completed all product assessments for the presence of
environment and new scientific understanding of our products
nitrosamines and reported as necessary to all Health
and processes. We have also made our policies and
Authorities. We have also developed mitigation plans which
procedures simpler to understand and implement and
will be executed throughout 2023 per the regulatory
adopted innovative tools to make them more user-friendly. We
requirements. We are actively working with industry bodies
regularly train staff in regulatory expectations and learnings
and the European Regulatory Authorities to complete the
from inspections and existing procedures so they can maintain
safety evaluation of Titanium Dioxide in Medicines as well
Current Good Manufacturing Practice standards.
as identifying any potential substitutes.
Financial controls and reporting
Risk definition Context
The risk that GSK fails to comply with current tax laws, fails to We are required by the laws of various jurisdictions to publicly
report accurate financial information in compliance with disclose our financial results and events that could materially
accounting standards and applicable legislation, or incurs affect the Group’s financial results. Regulators routinely review
significant losses due to treasury activities. the financial statements of listed companies for compliance
with new, revised, or existing accounting and regulatory
Risk impact
requirements. We believe that we comply with the appropriate
Non-compliance with existing or new financial or new ESG regulatory requirements concerning our financial statements
reporting and disclosure requirements, or changes to the and the disclosure of material information, including any
recognition of income and expenses, could expose GSK to transactions relating to business restructuring such as
litigation and regulatory action and could materially and acquisitions and divestitures. However, should we be subject
adversely affect our financial results. Failure to comply with to an investigation into potential non-compliance with
changes in the substance or application of the laws governing accounting and disclosure requirements, this could lead to
transfer pricing, dividends, tax credits and intellectual property restatements of previously reported results and significant
could also materially and adversely affect our financial results. penalties.
Failure to comply with applicable sanctions laws and
Our Treasury group deals daily in high value transactions,
regulations could result in GSK being investigated by relevant
mostly foreign exchange, and cash management transactions.
government agencies and authorities and/or in legal
These transactions involve market volatility and counterparty
proceedings against us. Government investigations and
risk. The Group’s effective tax rate reflects the locations of our
litigation, can be unpredictable and regardless of their
activities and the value they generate, which determine the
outcome, may be costly, require significant management
jurisdictions in which profits arise and the applicable tax rates.
attention, and damage our reputation. Inconsistent
application of treasury policies, transactional or settlement
errors, or counterparty defaults could lead to significant losses.
287GSK Annual Report 2022
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Financial controls and reporting continued
These may be higher or lower than the UK statutory rate and The Disclosure Committee, reporting to the Board, reviews
may reflect regimes that encourage innovation and investment GSK’s quarterly results and annual report. Throughout the year,
in R&D by providing tax incentives which, if changed, could in consultation with its legal advisors, the Disclosure
affect GSK’s tax rate. In addition, the worldwide nature of our Committee also determines whether it is necessary to disclose
operations means that our cross-border supply routes, publicly information about the Group through stock exchange
necessary to ensure supplies of medicines and vaccines, can announcements. The Treasury Management Group meets
result in conflicting claims from tax authorities as to the profits regularly to ensure that liquidity, interest rate, counterparty,
to be taxed in individual countries. This can lead to double foreign currency transaction and foreign currency translation
taxation, with profits taxed in more than one country. The risks are all managed in line with the prudent approach
complexity of tax regulations also means that we may detailed in the risk strategies and policies adopted by our
occasionally disagree with tax authorities on the technical Board.
interpretation of a particular area of tax law. The tax charge
Counterparty exposure is subject to defined limits approved by
included in our financial statements is our best estimate of tax
the Board for both credit rating and individual counterparties.
liability pending any audits by tax authorities. We expect there
The Middle Office within Treasury monitor the management of
to be a continued focus on tax reform, driven by initiatives by
counterparty risk in line with agreed policy with oversight from
the OECD and the EC to address the tax challenges arising
a corporate compliance officer, operating independently of
from digitalisation of the economy. Together with domestic
Treasury. Further details on mitigation of Treasury risks can be
initiatives around the world, these may result in significant
found on pages 246 to 248. We manage tax risk through
changes to established tax principles and an increase in tax
robust internal policies, processes, training, and compliance
authority disputes. Regardless of their merit or outcomes, these
programmes.
may be costly, divert management attention and adversely
impact our reputation and relationship with key stakeholders. We maintain open and constructive relationships with tax
Laws, regulations, orders and other measures restrict dealings authorities worldwide. We monitor government debate on tax
with certain countries, governments, government officials, policy in our key jurisdictions, so that we can understand any
entities, individuals, use of financial institutions and movement potential future changes in tax law and share an informed
of funds. Circumvention of sanctions and export controls can point of view. Where relevant, we provide pragmatic and
be a criminal offence and GSK seeks to comply with its constructive business input to tax policy makers, either directly
sanctions obligations. While we believe the Group complies or through industry trade bodies. This includes advocating
with all applicable sanctions in all material respects, such laws reform to support economic growth and job creation, as well
are complex and continue to evolve rapidly. as the needs of our patients and other key stakeholders. Our
tax affairs are managed on a global basis by a team of tax
Mitigating activities professionals, led by the Global Head of Tax, who work closely
We keep up to date with the latest developments in financial with the business on a day-to-day basis. The Global Tax team
reporting requirements by reviewing updates from regulators, is suitably qualified for the roles they perform, and we support
working with our external auditor and legal advisors and their training needs so they can provide up to date technical
performing and responding to emerging risks. Financial results advice in line with their responsibilities. We submit tax returns
are reviewed and approved by regional management, before according to statutory time limits and engage proactively with
being reviewed by GSK’s Group Financial Controller and Chief tax authorities to ensure our tax affairs are current, entering
Financial Officer (CFO). This allows our Financial Controller into continuous audit programmes and advance pricing
and CFO to assess the evolution of the business over time, and agreements where appropriate. These arrangements provide
to evaluate its performance to plan. Significant judgements long-term certainty for both tax authorities and GSK over the
are reviewed and confirmed by senior management. We tax treatment of our business, based on full disclosure of all
integrate technical or organisational transformation, newly relevant facts. We seek to resolve any differences of
acquired activities and external risks into our risk assessments interpretation in tax legislation with tax authorities in a
and apply appropriate controls and reviews. We maintain a cooperative manner. In exceptional cases, we may have to
control environment designed to identify material errors in resolve disputes through formal proceedings. GSK is
financial reporting and disclosure. We have a standardised committed to complying with all applicable sanctions, laws
global financial reporting operating model. and regulations, and has deployed a programme to enable
management of sanctions risk. The programme, jointly led by
The design and operating effectiveness of key financial
GSK Finance and Legal & Compliance, is made up of various
reporting controls are regularly reviewed by management and
systems and controls including, but not limited to, policies and
tested by external third parties. The few locations which are
procedures, training and awareness, screening, monitoring and
not on the standard model apply a minimum standard set of
risk reporting.
controls which are reviewed by management and monitored
independently. This gives us assurance that controls over key
financial reporting and disclosure processes are operating
effectively. Our Global Finance Risk Management and Controls
(FRMC) group provides extra support during significant
transformations, such as system deployment or management/
structural reorganisations. We add operational resources and
adapt programme timelines to ensure processes and controls
are maintained during significant changes.
288GSK Annual Report 2022
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Anti-bribery and corruption (ABAC)
Risk definition We continue to assess and understand our money laundering
risk exposure and mitigate any existing risk.
The risk that GSK or our third parties potentially fail to comply
with applicable laws, regulations, or internal requirements and Our Code of Conduct, culture, and commitment to zero
to ensure appropriate controls and governance over bribery tolerance towards bribery and corruption are integral to how
and corruption in business activities. we mitigate this risk. In light of the complexity and geographic
breadth of the risk, we constantly evolve our oversight of
Risk impact
activities and data, reinforce to our workforce GSK’s clear
Failure to mitigate this risk could expose GSK and associated expectations regarding acceptable behaviours, and maintain
persons to governmental investigation, regulatory action, and regular communications with local markets.
civil and criminal liability. It may compromise GSK’s ability to
We built our ABAC programme based on best-in-class
supply its products under certain government contracts. In
principles to help us manage risk from the top down and the
addition, failure to prevent bribery or corruption could have
bottom up. For example, the programme includes senior-level
substantial implications for GSK’s reputation and the credibility
commitment from our Board and leadership, and a data
of senior leaders. It might erode investor confidence in our
analytics programme to create and embed local key risk
governance, risk management and future performance, and
indicators to enable targeted intervention and risk
have a consequential negative impact on share performance.
management activities. We continue to actively consider
It could also lead to the imposition of significant financial
improvements to the programme.
penalties and the imposition of additional reporting
obligations. The ABAC programme is underpinned by our global ABAC
policy and other written standards and controls which address
Context the business activities that give rise to bribery and corruption
There continues to be a strong enforcement appetite for risks and establish due diligence requirements for the
foreign bribery investigations and prosecutions, with a engagement of third parties. The programme also mandates
particular focus on the conduct of multinational companies enhanced controls over interactions with government officials
wherever they operate. Financial penalties handed down in and during business development transactions. We have a
proven corruption cases are often very significant. dedicated team responsible for the programme’s
implementation and evolution. The ABAC team works with
Disruption to global supply chains and the commercial
other groups across the organisation to address and improve
pressures caused by higher than usual inflation rates are likely
controls and monitoring requirements. Audit & Assurance and
to increase the risks of bribery and corruption in certain
independent business monitoring teams complement the
contexts.
ABAC team’s work and provide added assurance.
However, greater transparency and collaboration among We use issues found during oversight and assurance exercises
enforcement authorities, advances in technology and the use
and investigations to identify areas for specific intervention in
of data analytics are providing better platforms to streamline
our markets and to drive the continuous improvement of the
processes and detect potential issues. programme.
Mitigating activities We provide mandatory ABAC training at least annually to
We have an enterprise-wide ABAC programme designed to employees and relevant third parties differentiated according
ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations to seniority, roles and responsibilities, and geographic location.
prohibiting bribery and corruption and related offences. It
Formal and informal ‘Speak Up’ channels are available to
builds on our business standards and culture to form a
report misconduct or non-compliance. The central
comprehensive and practical approach to compliance that
investigations team reviews and triages allegations of non-
responds to the evolving nature of our business. GSK’s ABAC
compliance and triggers investigation as appropriate.
Governance Board oversees and provides programme
governance and enterprise risk management which includes
representation from key functional areas.
We continue to enhance our controls around third-party
engagements to ensure that they are sufficient to meet
evolving and emerging risks.
We plan to continue with pre- and post-transaction ABAC due
diligence, and to increase the capabilities in the organisation
around the onboarding, continual monitoring and
management of third parties.
289GSK Annual Report 2022
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Commercial practices
Risk definition Mitigating activities
The risk that GSK or our third parties potentially engage in To achieve our strategic objectives, we must meet price
commercial activities that fail to comply with laws, regulations, expectations of payers, HCPs, consumers, and the community.
industry codes, and internal controls and requirements. Our culture provides a guide for how we lead and make
decisions. We constantly strive to do the right thing and deliver
Risk impact
quality medicines and vaccines and sustain reliable supply to
Failure to engage in activities that are consistent with the letter meet customer needs. In doing so, we seek to ensure our actions
and spirit of the law, industry regulations, or the Group’s reflect GSK’s values, behaviours, and purpose. We understand
requirements relating to sales and promotion of medicines and the impact of data on our industry and strive to become an
vaccines; with appropriate interactions with healthcare organisation that makes data-driven decisions; this approach is
professionals (HCPs), organisations and patients; with aligned to our efforts to become more agile and work at pace.
legitimate and transparent transfers of value; and with pricing GSK has acted to enhance and improve our policies and
and competition (or antitrust) regulations in commercial standards, application of data analytics and our channel
practices, including trade channel activities and business activities. We have evolved policies and standards incrementally
tendering, could materially and adversely affect our ability to to ensure that commercial activities that we undertake or are
deliver our strategy and long-term priorities. Additionally, it conducted on our behalf are executed within our established
may result in incomplete awareness of the risk/benefit profile governance. We train employees on relevant information with a
of our products and possibly suboptimal treatment of patients focus on interactive learning and elements of behavioural
and consumers; governmental investigation, regulatory action science. All our commercial activities worldwide must conform to
and legal proceedings brought against the Group by high ethical, regulatory, and industry standards. Where local
governmental and private plaintiffs which could result in standards differ from global ones, we apply those that are most
government sanctions, and criminal and/or financial penalties. stringent. Where the standards of an acquired company or joint
Any practices that are found to be misaligned with our values venture partner differ from our global standards, we remediate
and expectations could also result in reputational harm and legacy policies and implement revisions, so they align.
dilute the trust established with external stakeholders.
Our businesses continue to use our internal control framework
to support the assessment and management of risks. Business
Context
unit risk management and compliance boards, which manage
We operate in a highly regulated and extremely competitive
risks across global and in-country business activities, oversee
biopharma industry, amongst peers who make significant
commercial activities and their monitoring programmes. All
product innovations and technical advances and intensify
promotional materials and activities must be reviewed and
price competition. Additional external factors impacting our
approved according to our policies and standards and
business operations include the ongoing effects of the
conducted in accordance with local laws and regulations;
COVID-19 global pandemic, access limitations to our
these requirements seek to ensure that such materials and
customers, macroeconomic inflationary dynamics, and pricing
activities fairly represent the Group’s products or services.
pressure across markets. To achieve our strategic objectives,
Where necessary, in the event of misconduct, we have
we must continue to develop commercially viable new
disciplined employees, up to and including termination of
products and deliver additional uses for existing products that
contract, and clawed back remuneration from senior
address the needs of patients, consumers, HCPs and payers.
management. We have continued to evolve our incentive
Financially, new products/indications carry with them an
programme for sales representatives to better recognise and
uncertainty with regards to future success. Product
reward individual effort. In nearly all markets, the capped
development is costly, lengthy, and uncertain, and carries with
variable pay element of representatives’ compensation is
it the potential for failure at any stage. Even after successful
evaluated on the basis of individual sales targets.
product development, we face challenges in how we launch,
and our competitors’ products or pricing strategies could We allow fair-market value payments to be made by GSK to
render our assets less competitive. We support product expert practitioners to speak about our innovative medicines
innovation through our continued focus on both in-person and and vaccines during a restricted period in a product’s lifecycle,
virtual engagement, with a constant focus on our patient. or when new and competitive data is published. To support this,
we have rolled out a global end-to-end process across GSK in
Once we have an approved medicine or vaccine, it is our
2022 to drive consistent ways of working and efficiencies and
obligation to provide important information to the healthcare
strengthen controls through automation and use of data. Where
community in various ways, always in a responsible, legal, and
permitted we report payments to individual HCPs as part of our
ethical manner. Appropriate product promotion ensures HCPs
commitment to transparency and responsible disclosure.
have access to the information they need, that patients and
consumers have the facts about the medicines and vaccines
they require, and that products are prescribed, recommended,
or used in a manner that provides healthcare benefit. We are
committed to the ethical and responsible commercialisation of
our products in support of our purpose to improve the quality
of human life and get ahead of disease together.
290GSK Annual Report 2022
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Scientific and patient engagement
Risk definition We expect our activities to be scientifically sound and
accurate, conducted ethically and transparently, and
The risk that GSK or our third parties potentially fail to engage
compliant with applicable codes, laws, and regulations.
externally to gain insights, educate and communicate on the
There are many industry and local codes and laws and
science of our medicines and associated disease areas, and
other regulations that apply (such as Privacy, Data integrity).
provide grants and donations in a legitimate and transparent
That means measured risk-taking, rooted in sound ethical
manner compliant with laws, regulations, industry codes and
considerations, and principles-based decision-making,
internal controls and requirements.
training, communication, and monitoring of such activities are
Risk impact key to managing the risk and enabling full and appropriate
engagement.
Without controls in place, the risk could result in real, perceived,
or disguised promotion including off-label and prior-
Mitigating activities
authorisation promotion, and real or perceived provision of
Our Chief Medical Officer (CMO) oversees all non-promotional
medical advice. This in turn could lead to criminal
scientific and patient engagement as enterprise risk owner.
investigations and penalties, civil litigation, or competitor
The GSK Code of Practice is the key internal policy for non-
complaints. At the same time, if we do not engage fully and
promotional engagement activities. These activities include
appropriately, this could result in patient harm, failure to
scientific interactions, support for medical education, advice
advance science and innovation, reputational damage, and
seeking, gathering insights on unmet needs of patients,
financial loss. Such consequences may reduce the trust of the
scientific communication of our research, and disease
public, patients, healthcare professionals, payers, regulators,
awareness.
and governments.
Since the COVID-19 pandemic we have seen a continued
Context
increase in virtual engagements (e.g. with external experts,
Scientific and patient engagements are diverse non- advisory boards, patient advocacy, patient engagements and
promotional activities directed at healthcare professionals, scientific congresses). We further developed and modernised
patients, payers, and external stakeholders. Such our digital approach to HCPs, our patient engagement
engagements aim to improve patient care through the framework and insight-gathering, and applied our internal
exchange or provision of knowledge on the use of our products principles and policies to this rapidly changing and growing
and related diseases. Scientific and patient engagement with environment.
external stakeholder groups is vital to GSK, as a research-
We continuously improve our internal controls and networks to
based biopharma company that is ambitious for patients and
identify emerging risks early and to support staff to conduct
is necessary to advance science and medicine.
activities in compliance with GSK’s culture and policies, local
laws, and regulations, while building effective risk
management and management monitoring systems.
Data ethics and privacy
Risk definition Context
The risk that GSK or our third parties potentially fail to ethically Data protection and privacy legislation is diverse, with limited
collect; use; re-use through artificial intelligence, data analytics global harmonisation or simplification. It is challenging for
or automation; secure; share and destroy personal information multinationals to standardise their approach to compliance
in accordance with laws, regulations, and internal controls and with data privacy laws. Governments are enforcing compliance
requirements. with data protection and privacy laws more rigorously. The
approach and focus of data protection and privacy regulators
Risk impact
also differs between regions and countries, which further
Non-compliance with data privacy laws globally could lead to creates challenges for global organisations seeking to
harm to individuals and GSK. It could also damage trust implement a single harmonised global privacy programme.
between GSK and individuals, communities, business partners
Increases in the volume of data processed and advances in
and government authorities. Many countries have increased
technology have resulted in a greater focus on data
the enforcement powers of their data protection authorities by
governance and the ethical use of personal information, over
allowing them to impose significant fines, impact cross-border
and above compliance with data privacy laws. Companies
data flows, or temporarily ban data processing. Many new
seeking to foster innovation in artificial intelligence and other
national laws also enable individuals to bring collective legal
new technologies are faced with evolving decisions from
actions against companies such as GSK for failure to follow
global policymakers on how best to promote trust in these
data privacy laws.
systems and avoid unintended outcomes or harmful impacts.
291GSK Annual Report 2022
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Data ethics and privacy continued
Additionally, there are a number of emerging laws concerning The Head of DPC leads a global, cross-functional core team of
the localisation of data, restrictions on international transfers digital- and privacy-qualified attorneys and privacy
and data security, which are changing existing frameworks compliance professionals, supported by a network of privacy
that GSK has previously relied upon. This increasing trend for leaders within business units/functions, privacy contracts
data sovereignty affects our ability to drive medical innovation locally, and the wider Legal and Compliance team. GSK has a
and to effectively operate internationally. global privacy framework based on the EU General Data
Protection Regulation, which is deployed in every market
Mitigating activities
based on factors including the robustness of local privacy
Our General Counsel is GSK’s Enterprise Risk Owner (ERO), and legislation, established data protection authorities, and GSK’s
chairs our Privacy Governance Board, which oversees GSK’s footprint. Beyond those countries, we are deploying a
overall data privacy operating model. Each GSK business area proportionate control framework to set up minimum privacy
has appointed a risk owner accountable for overseeing its standards irrespective of any applicable legislation.
privacy risks, supported by privacy leaders within their
Our core team is responsible for:
business. In countries where local data privacy laws require
appointment of a Data Protection Officer (DPO), GSK has – operating and improving the centralised global privacy
made such appointments, including an EU DPO. control framework
As a result of GSK’s focus on technology, data-driven science, – continuously assessing and providing relevant and
use of artificial intelligence/machine learning and evolving proportionate controls and aid to non-deployed markets
global data strategy, we have sought to address the key risks – monitoring new, or changing, laws and adapting the privacy
by creating a new team with Group Legal and Compliance framework accordingly
responsible for advising on global digital privacy and
– deploying a comprehensive training programme to drive
cybersecurity strategy. The ERO has appointed a Head of
greater awareness and accountability for managing
Digital, Privacy and Cybersecurity (Head of DPC), who has
personal information across the entire organisation
day-to-day accountability for designing and implementing the
control framework. We certify key GSK privacy network roles have sufficient
training and experience to carry out their roles effectively.
We continuously improve our processes, such as issue
identification, reporting and handling, through monitoring. Our
core team works with the business to ensure we build in privacy
controls into all existing and new business initiatives, as well as
ensuring we meet our accountability obligations in accordance
with global data protection and privacy laws.
Research practices
Risk definition Context
The risk that GSK or our third parties potentially fail to Research involving animals can raise ethical concerns. In many
adequately conduct ethical and credible pre-clinical and cases, however, research involving animals is the only way to
clinical research, collaborate in research activities compliant investigate the effects of a potential new medicine in a living
with laws, regulations, and internal controls and requirements. body other than in humans. Animal research provides critical
information about the causes and mechanisms of diseases
Risk impact
and therefore remains a vital part of our research. We
The potential impacts of the risk include harm to human continually seek ways in which we can minimise our use of
subjects, reputational damage, failure to obtain the necessary animals in research, development, and testing, while
regulatory approvals for our products, governmental complying with regulatory requirements and reducing the
investigation, legal proceedings brought against the GSK by impact on the animals used. Human subject research is critical
governmental and private plaintiffs (product liability suits and to assessing and demonstrating the safety and efficacy of our
claims for damages), loss of revenue due to inadequate patent investigational products or further evaluating our products
protection or inability to supply our products, and regulatory once they have been approved. This research includes clinical
action such as fines, penalties, or loss of product authorisation. trials in healthy volunteers and patients and adheres to
Poor data integrity and governance could compromise GSK’s regulations and high ethical, medical, and scientific standards.
R&D efforts and negatively impact our reputation. Any of these We disclose the results of this research externally regardless of
could materially and adversely affect our financial results and whether they reflect positively or negatively on our products, so
damage the trust of patients and customers. that the scientific community can learn from the outcomes of
our research. We also work with human biological samples
which are fundamental to the discovery, development, and
safety monitoring of our products.
292GSK Annual Report 2022
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Research practices continued
We are committed to managing human biological samples in We have an established Office of Animal Welfare, Ethics and
accordance with relevant laws, regulations, and ethical Strategy and Risk (OAWESR), led by our Chief Veterinary Officer,
principles, and in a manner that respects the interests of which supports the humane and responsible care of animals,
sample donors. Data is pivotal to our R&D strategy, and we are carries out ethical reviews and independent scientific reviews of
maximising the use of data to serve patients. Governing our animal studies, and shares knowledge and advocates for the
data in accordance with relevant laws, regulations, contractual application of non-animal alternatives. The OAWESR provides a
obligations, expectations, and our culture across privacy, framework of animal welfare governance; defines and provides
information security, and data integrity is essential. oversight for training in animal care; promotes the replacement,
refinement and reduction of animal research; conducts quality
We use a wide variety of biological materials in the discovery,
assessments; manages a programme of external animal
research, and development of our assets. Through the
diligence; and develops and deploys strategies for reproducing
Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) and the Nagoya
experiments and translating them to human clinical end points.
Protocol, the international community has established a global
Ensuring we implement and maintain proper data governance
framework regulating access to, and use of, genetic resources
controls remains an important priority, especially as our scientific
of non-human origin in research and development. We support
strategy is evolving to take advantage of the breadth of our
the principles of access to, and benefit-sharing of, genetic
data (for example: genomics and artificial intelligence and
resources as outlined in the CBD and the Nagoya Protocol. We
machine learning). We focus on building data integrity, privacy
also recognise the importance of appropriate, effective, and
and usage controls into our internal control framework. Quality
proportionate implementation measures at national and
assurance teams conduct audits to provide independent
regional levels.
business monitoring of our internal controls. Our R&D
Mitigating activities organisation maintains and controls pre-publication procedures
to guard against public disclosure before patent applications
The Research Practices risk is overseen by an enterprise
are filed. In addition, because a lack of data integrity in
framework that seeks to strengthen governance across R&D.
preparing patent application data and information can lead to
Under the leadership of the Research Practices Enterprise Risk
a loss of patent protection, legal experts collaborate with R&D
Owner, management of the risk takes a pragmatic approach
to support the review process for new patent applications. Our
to information sharing, streamlining risk identification and
R&D organisation also collaborates with legal experts
escalation while ensuring ownership of risk mitigation stays
throughout the development of our assets to take account of
with the business.
any relevant third-party patent rights.
Environment, health, and safety (EHS)
Risk definition Mitigating activities
The risk that GSK or our third parties potentially fail to ensure The GSK Leadership Team is responsible for EHS governance
appropriate controls and governance of the organization’s and risk oversight. They ensure there is an effective control
assets, facilities, infrastructure, and business activities, framework ‘in-place’ and ‘in-use’ to manage the EHS risks,
including execution of hazardous activities, handling of impacts, and legal compliance issues in each of our businesses.
hazardous materials, or release of substances harmful to the This includes assigning responsibility to senior managers for
environment that disrupts supply or harms employees, third providing and maintaining our controls and for ensuring that
parties or the environment. tiered monitoring and governance processes are in place within
their business units. Function leaders ensure that the EHS control
Risk impact
framework is implemented effectively in their respective business
Failure to manage EHS risks could lead to significant harm to area, that it is compliant with applicable laws and regulations,
people, the environment and the communities in which we and that it is adequately resourced, maintained, communicated,
operate, fines, inability to meet stakeholder expectations and and monitored. Every employee and qualified contractor acting
regulatory requirements, litigation or regulatory action, and on behalf of GSK is personally responsible for ensuring that they
damage to the company’s reputation, which could materially follow all applicable local standard operating procedures. Our
and adversely affect our financial results. risk-based, proactive approach is articulated in our global EHS
policy and detailed in our global EHS standards, against which
Context
we audit all our operations to ensure compliance. We ensure
GSK is subject to the health, safety and environmental laws hazards are appropriately controlled through the design of
of various jurisdictions. These laws impose duties to protect facilities, equipment and systems. These rigorous procedures,
people, the environment and the communities in which we when applied correctly, put effective barriers in place to protect
operate. employees’ health and safety. In 2020 we created a safety
improvement plan, focusing on Life Saving Rules, Safety
Leadership and Warehouse Safety. All significant milestones for
these programmes were delivered in 2022 according to plan.
Our Safety Leadership Experience and warehouse
improvements will continue implementation into 2023.
293GSK Annual Report 2022
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Information security
Risk definition Mitigating activities
The risk that GSK or our third parties potentially fail to ensure
Cyber Security Office and Cyber Maturity Programme
appropriate controls and governance over unauthorised
GSK has a Cyber Security Office and our Chief Information
access, disclosure, theft, unavailability or corruption of GSK’s
Security Officer is responsible for identifying and putting in
information, key systems or technology infrastructure.
place measures to help GSK mitigate and manage cyber
Risk impact security risks. This includes active monitoring and initiating
remediation or other actions in response to cyber security
Failure to adequately protect our information and systems may
intelligence and threats, while also enhancing our capabilities
cause harm to our patients, workforce and customers,
through an ongoing programme of investment in people,
disruption to our business and/or loss of commercial or
process and technology to improve our ability to prevent,
strategic advantage, regulatory sanction or damage to our
detect, respond and recover from any cyber security incidents.
reputation.
A risk based Third-party security risk management program is
Context also in place to aid in assessing cyber security risk during
selection of third parties and also provide ongoing monitoring
The external environment continues to be extremely
of our external partner and supplier ecosystem.
challenging, making it hard to keep pace with increasingly
sophisticated cyber threats. This is due to many factors Information Security Governance
including increased geopolitical conflict and digital The Cyber Security Office periodically provides updates on key
nationalism, rising frequency and severity of data breaches information security risks and issues, as well as progress reports
and growing capability and sophistication of bad actors and on the Cyber Maturity Programme to both the Risk Oversight &
cyber criminals. GSK’s business relies on operating a highly Compliance Council and the Audit & Risk Committee. The
connected information network of internal and external Information Security Enterprise Risk Plan and Cyber Maturity
systems, which hold confidential research and development, Programme are overseen by the Chief Digital and Technology
manufacturing, commercial, workforce and financial data. This Officer as well as the Chief Financial Officer.
means that our systems and information have been and will
Cyber Security Awareness, Training and Readiness
continue to be the target of cyberattacks. Acceleration in the
use of digital, data and analytics and cloud computing Cyber Security Awareness and Training programs including
capabilities to drive GSK’s pipeline and performance requires phishing simulation programs are in place to increase
us to continuously adapt and strengthen our controls and awareness of cyber related risks and reinforce the message
defensive capabilities. GSK also relies on third-party that security is everyone’s responsibility at GSK. Periodic crisis
contractors, partners and suppliers who face similar cyber simulation tabletop exercises are planned at various levels of
threats and this continues to be a vector of risk to manage the organisation to test our ability to respond to cyber
as well. incidents.
Compliance with various governmental cyber security
regulations
The Cyber Security Office, with the General Counsel’s
guidance, works to stay abreast of various emergent
governmental regulations, emergent trends and compliance
expectations regarding cyber security or information security.
As new regulatory guidance becomes available, remedial
compliance related actions are put in place as appropriate.
294GSK Annual Report 2022
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Supply continuity
Risk definition New technology and modality platforms within supply chains
are changing the requirements for the skillsets of people The risk that GSK or our third parties potentially fail to deliver a
working in this field. We have implemented a new Chemistry,
continuous supply of compliant finished product or respond
Manufacturing and Controls Operating Model in 2022. This
effectively to a crisis incident in a timely manner to recover and
brings cross-fertilisation of talent focus on the skills needed for sustain critical supply operations.
the future for innovative manufacturing.
Risk impact
Industrial relations are also a current risk to supply continuity,
We recognise how important the continuity of supply of our with the threat of industrial action being averted in our UK
products is to the patients who rely on them. Supply disruption manufacturing sites through successful dialogue with unions.
can lead to: Continued business monitoring is in place to assess the risk of
– Product shortages and product recalls the spread of industrial relations challenges resulting from
global cost of living pressures.
– Regulatory intervention
Mitigating activities
– Reputational harm
– Lost sales revenue Risk Management
Our Medicines and Vaccine supply chains are set up to ensure
Consequently, we need sophisticated end-to-end supply chain
sustainable global supply. The GSK Internal Control Framework
management with robust crisis management and business
drives our approach to risk management, and it has been
continuity plans in place to respond.
designed to identify emerging new risks and support clear
decision making. Risk oversight is managed through a Context
hierarchy of Risk Management and Compliance Boards to
We run our supply chains in a continually evolving, highly-
assure risk mitigation (including identifying new and emerging
regulated environment. There is no single set of global
threats).
regulations which governs the manufacture and distribution of
medicines, and we must adhere to the requirements in all those Inventory Management
markets in which we licence, sell or manufacture our products. Supply chain governance committees in Medicines and
We rely upon our internal Quality Management System and Vaccines closely monitor the inventory status and delivery of
our Internal Control Framework to ensure we continue to our products. Our core commercial cycle links supply chain
preserve our licence to operate. forecasting with our commercial ambition. It is designed to
reduce the risk of demand fluctuations and manage temporary
Our complex end-to-end supply chains often involve third-
shortages in supply. We periodically review each node of our
party suppliers, from Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient (API)
supply chains to ensure we hold adequate safety stocks, whilst manufacturers and raw material suppliers through to Third-
balancing working capital. We put particular emphasis on
Party Logistics Providers and contract engineering firms. We
mitigating supply risks associated with medically-critical,
embed integrated risk management into our sourcing and day
high-revenue products and new product launches, for example to day business processes, alongside our Third-Party Oversight
using dual sourcing for key products or APIs. We use the
programme.
monthly Performance Management Process across our supply
External factors continued to challenge supply continuity in
chains to monitor business activity and highlight adverse
2022. In the early part of the year COVID-19 continued to
trends in supply, operations, budget and workforce capability.
disrupt our sourcing of biosciences materials across our
Medicines and Vaccines supply chains (e.g. vials, syringes Business continuity
and single-use systems components). The Ukraine conflict has Crisis management and business continuity plans are in place
resulted in supply disruption to the region. To manage these across our supply chains, which include authorised response
disruptions, we deployed bespoke de-risking plans using crisis and recovery strategies, key areas of responsibility and clear
and continuity plans to manage the detail and mitigate the risk communication routes. We regularly use business continuity
of supply continuity problems, e.g. by dual sourcing of plans to manage potential supply disruptions. Our
materials or re-routing of shipments to avoid conflict zones. manufacturing sites have crisis management plans in
Keeping our patients supplied with their medicines is our place. These plans are tested at least annually to ensure
priority. maintenance of core skills in crisis management.
295GSK Annual Report 2022
Shareholder information
Demerger and Share Consolidation
On Monday 18 July 2022, the company completed the The circular in relation to the Demerger and the Share
demerger of the Consumer Healthcare business from the Consolidation (Circular) and the prospectus regarding the
Group to form the Haleon Group (Demerger). Under the terms admission of Haleon’s ordinary shares to the premium listing
of the Demerger, shareholders received one Haleon plc share segment of the Official List of the Financial Conduct Authority
for each GSK plc share held at the record time of 6.00 pm (UK) (FCA) and trading on the Main Market of the London Stock
on Friday 15 July 2022. Exchange (LSE) were published by the company and Haleon
plc respectively on Wednesday 1 June 2022.
Following the Demerger, the company consolidated its
share capital (Share Consolidation). The Share Consolidation
took effect on Tuesday 19 July 2022 and resulted in
shareholders receiving four new GSK plc shares of nominal
value 311/4 pence each for every five GSK plc shares of nominal
value 25 pence each held at the record time of 8.00pm (UK)
on Monday 18 July 2022.
Share capital and control
Details of our issued share capital and the number of shares Similarly, other than certain economic sanctions which may be
held in Treasury as at 31 December 2022 can be found in in force from time to time, there are no limitations relating only to
Note 37 to the financial statements, ‘Share capital and share non-residents of the UK under English law or the company’s
premium account’. Articles of Association on the right to be a holder of, and to vote
in respect of, the company’s shares.
Our Ordinary Shares are listed on the LSE and are also quoted
on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) in the form of
Interests in voting rights
American Depositary Shares (ADS). Each ADS represents two
Other than as stated below, as far as we are aware, there are no
Ordinary Shares. For details of listed debt and where it is listed
persons with significant direct or indirect holdings in the company.
refer to Note 30 to the financial statements, ‘Net debt’.
Information provided to the company pursuant to the FCA's
Holders of Ordinary Shares and ADS are entitled to receive Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules (DTR 5) is
dividends (when declared) and the company’s Annual Report. published on a Regulatory Information Service and on the
They are also entitled to attend, speak, appoint proxies and company’s website, gsk.com.
exercise voting rights at general meetings of the company.
The company has received notifications in accordance with
There are no restrictions on the transfer, or limitations on the DTR 5 of the following notifiable interests in the voting rights in
holding, of Ordinary Shares and ADS and no requirements the company’s issued share capital:
to obtain approval prior to any transfers. No Ordinary Shares
31 December 2022 3 March 2023
or ADS carry any special rights with regard to control of the
Percentage Percentage
company and there are no restrictions on voting rights. Major No. of of total No. of of total
shareholders have the same voting rights per share as all other voting voting voting voting
rights rights(1) rights rights(1)
shareholders. There are no known arrangements under which
BlackRock, Inc 231,975,400(2) 5.69% 231,975,400(2) 5.69%
financial rights are held by a person other than the holder of
the shares and no known agreements on restrictions on share Dodge & Cox 253,464,108(3) 5.04% 253,464,108(3) 5.04%
transfers or on voting rights.
(1) P ercentage of total voting rights at the date of notification to the
Shares acquired through the Group’s employee share plans company.
rank equally with the other shares in issue and have no special (2) C omprising an indirect interest in 229,134,683 Ordinary Shares and a
holding of 2,840,717 Qualifying Financial Instruments (Contracts for
rights. The trustees of our Employee Share Ownership Plan
Difference).
trusts have waived their rights to dividends on shares held by
(3) C omprising an indirect interest in 99,377,874 Ordinary Shares and
those trusts. 154,086,234 ADS.
Exchange controls and other limitations The company has not acquired or disposed of any interests
affecting holders in its own shares during the period under review.
Other than certain economic sanctions, which may be in
force from time to time, there are currently no applicable laws,
decrees or regulations in force in the UK restricting the import or
export of capital or restricting the remittance of dividends or
other payments to holders of the company’s shares who are
non-residents of the UK.
296297
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
GSK Annual Report 2022
Shareholder information continued
Share capital and control continued
Share buy-back programme Share price 2022 2021 2020
£ £ £
The Board has been authorised to issue and allot Ordinary
At 1 January 16.25 13.42 17.79
Shares under Article 9 of the company’s Articles of Association.
At 31 December 14.38 16.07 13.42
The power under Article 9 and the authority for the company to
Increase/(decrease) (12)% 20% (24.6)%
make purchases of its own shares are subject to shareholder
High during the year 18.31 16.19 18.46
authorities which are sought on an annual basis at our Annual
Low during the year 12.96 11.91 12.92
General Meeting (AGM). Any shares purchased by the
company may be cancelled, held as Treasury shares or The table above sets out middle market closing prices.
used for satisfying share options and grants under the Group's The company’s share price decreased by 12% in 2022. This
employee share plans. compares with an increase in the FTSE 100 index of 1% during
the year. The middle market closing share price on 3 March
Our programme covers purchases of shares for cancellation
2023 was £14.42.
or to be held as Treasury shares, in accordance with the
authority renewed by shareholders at the AGM in May 2022, Share price trend in the three years ended
when the company was authorised to purchase a maximum
31 December 2022
of just over 508 million shares. Details of shares purchased,
cancelled, held as Treasury shares and subsequently UK£ US$
transferred from Treasury to satisfy awards under the Group’s
19 80
employee share plans are disclosed in Note 37 to the financial
18 75
statements, ‘Share capital and share premium account’.
17 70
In determining specific share repurchase levels, the company
16 65
considers the development of free cash flow during the year.
15 60
No Treasury shares have been purchased since 2014.
14 55
The company confirms that it does not currently intend to make 13 50
any market purchases in 2023. The company will review the
12 45
potential for future share buy-backs in line with its usual annual
11 40
cycle and subject to return and ratings criteria.
10 35
Market capitalisation 09 30
The market capitalisation, based on shares in issue excluding 08 29
Treasury shares, of GSK at 31 December 2022 was £58.9 billion.
07 28
At that date, GSK was the 10th largest company by market
31/12/19 31/12/20 31/12/21 31/12/22
capitalisation in the FTSE index.
UK share price (UK£) US ADS price (US$)
Nature of trading market
The following table sets out, for the periods indicated, the high and low middle market closing prices for the company’s Ordinary
Shares on the LSE and for the ADS on the NYSE.
Ordinary Shares ADS
UK£ per share US$ per share
High Low High Low
March 2023* 14.42 14.22 34.66 34.26
February 2023 15.03 14.20 36.43 34.27
January 2023 14.51 13.87 35.61 34.48
December 2022 14.92 13.88 37.92 34.78
November 2022 14.48 13.24 34.59 31.58
October 2022 14.29 13.19 33.29 30.01
September 2022 13.78 12.96 32.47 28.67
Quarter ended 31 December 2022 14.92 13.20 37.92 30.00
Quarter ended 30 September 2022 18.23 12.96 44.53 28.67
Quarter ended 30 June 2022 18.31 16.72 47.70 41.98
Quarter ended 31 March 2022 17.27 15.01 47.66 40.17
Quarter ended 31 December 2021 16.19 13.80 44.44 38.13
Quarter ended 30 September 2021 15.26 13.83 42.33 38.05
Quarter ended 30 June 2021 14.36 12.78 40.66 35.82
Quarter ended 31 March 2021 14.14 11.91 39.24 33.61
Year ended 31 December 2021 16.19 13.80 44.44 38.13
Year ended 31 December 2020 14.68 12.92 39.17 33.42
Year ended 31 December 2019 18.19 14.36 47.32 37.83
Year ended 31 December 2018 16.22 12.43 41.94 35.49
* t o 3 March 2023GSK Annual Report 2022
Shareholder information continued
Analysis of shareholdings at 31 December 2022
Number of % of total % of total Number of
accounts accounts shares shares
Holding of shares
Up to 1,000 48,487 75.32 0.34 14,478,112
1,001 to 5,000 11,929 18.53 0.58 25,184,737
5,001 to 100,000 2,944 4.57 1.24 53,490,777
100,001 to 1,000,000 682 1.06 5.52 237,893,148
Over 1,000,000 333 0.52 92.32 3,980,296,567
64,375 100.00 100.00 4,311,343,341
Held by
Institutional and Corporate holders 2,383 3.70 61.71 2,660,734,974
Individuals and other corporate bodies 61,990 96.30 13.46 580,447,710
Guaranty Nominees Limited (ADR Programme) 1 0.00 19.79 853,035,897
Held as Treasury shares by GSK 1 0.00 5.04 217,124,760
JP Morgan Chase Bank NA is the Depositary for the company’s American Depository Receipt (ADR) programme. The company’s
ADS are listed on the NYSE. Ordinary Shares representing the company’s ADR programme, which is managed by the Depositary,
are registered in the name of Guaranty Nominees Limited. At 3 March 2023, Guaranty Nominees Limited held 852,687,041
Ordinary Shares representing 20.82% of the issued share capital (excluding Treasury shares).
At 3 March 2023, the number of holders of Ordinary Shares in the US was 852 with holdings of 716,804 Ordinary Shares, and the
number of registered holders of ADS was 16,757 with holdings of 426,343,520 ADS. Certain of these Ordinary Shares and ADS
were held by brokers or other nominees. As a result, the number of holders of record or registered holders in the US is not
representative of the number of beneficial holders or of the residence of beneficial holders.
Dividends
The company pays dividends quarterly and continues to return GSK has previously stated that it expected to declare a 27p
cash to shareholders through its dividend policy. Dividends per share dividend for the first half of 2022, a 22p per share
remain an essential component of total shareholder return and dividend for the second half of 2022 and a 45p per share
GSK recognises the importance of dividends to shareholders. dividend for 2023 (before the Share Consolidation) but that
these targeted dividends per share would increase in step with
On 23 June 2021, at the new GSK Investor Update, GSK
the Share Consolidation to maintain the same aggregate
set out that from 2022 a progressive dividend policy will be
dividend pay-out in absolute Pound Sterling terms. Accordingly,
implemented guided by a 40 to 60 percent pay-out ratio
using the consolidation ratio, GSK’s expected dividend for the
through the investment cycle. The dividend policy, the total
fourth quarter of 2022 converts to 13.75p per new Ordinary
expected cash distribution, and the respective dividend
Share, this results in an expected total dividend for the second
pay-out ratios for GSK remain unchanged.
half of 2022 of 27.5p per new Ordinary Share. The expected
dividend for 2023 is now 56.5p per new Ordinary Share, in line
Dividends per share
with the original expectation converted for the Share
The table below sets out the dividend per share and per ADS Consolidation and rounded up.
for the last five years. The dividend per ADS is translated into
Details of the dividends declared, the amounts and the
US dollars at applicable exchange rates.
payment dates are given in Note 16 to the financial statements,
Year pence US$(1) ‘Dividends’.
2022 61.25(2) –(3)
2021 80 2.16 2023 Dividend calendar
2020 80 2.12 Quarter Ex-dividend date Record date Payment date
2019 80 2.01 Q4 2022 23 February 2023 24 February 2023 13 April 2023
2018 80 2.08 Q1 2023 18 May 2023 19 May 2023 13 July 2023
(1) An annual fee of $0.03 per ADS (or $0.0075 per ADS per quarter) will be charged Q2 2023 17 August 2023 18 August 2023 12 October 2023
by the Depository. The amounts shown are the dividends paid per ADS before the Q3 2023 16 November 2023 17 November 2023 11 January 2024
annual fee is charged.
Q4 2023 22 February 2024 23 February 2024 11 April 2024
(2) Adjusted for the Share Consolidation (2022 only; prior years have not been
adjusted). Dividends declared and paid in respect of 2022 were 14p per share for
Q1 2022, 16.25p per share for Q2 2022 and 13.75p per share for Q3 2022. A
dividend of 13.75p per share has been declared for Q4 2022.
(3) T he Q4 2022 ordinary dividend receivable by ADS holders will be calculated
based on the exchange rate on 13 April 2023. The cumulative dividend receivable
by ADS holders for Q1, Q2 and Q3 2022 was $1.05.
298299
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
GSK Annual Report 2022
Shareholder information continued
Financial calendar 2023
Event Date Results announcements
Quarter 1 Results announcement 26 April 2023 Results announcements are issued to the LSE and are available
Annual General Meeting 3 May 2023 on its news service. They are also sent to the US Securities and
Quarter 2 Results announcement 26 July 2023 Exchange Commission (SEC) and the NYSE, issued to the
Quarter 3 Results announcement 1 November 2023 media and made available on our website.
Preliminary/Quarter 4 Results announcement 31 January 2024
Financial reports
Annual Report publication February/March 2024
Annual Report distribution March 2024 The company publishes an Annual Report which is made
available on our website from the date of publication.
Information about the company, including the share and ADS Shareholders may elect to receive notification by email
price, is available on our website at gsk.com. Information made of the publication of Annual Reports by registering on
available on the website does not constitute part of this Annual www.shareview.co.uk, and may also elect to receive a
Report. printed copy of the Annual Report by contacting our registrar,
Equiniti Limited.
Copies of previous Annual Reports are available on our
website. Printed copies can also be obtained from our registrar
(see page 302 for the contact details).
Annual General Meeting 2023
Our Annual General Meeting (AGM) will be held at 2.30pm ADS holders wishing to attend the meeting electronically
(UK time) on Wednesday, 3 May 2023 at the Sofitel London should refer to the AGM Notice for details on how to request a
Heathrow, Terminal 5, London Heathrow Airport, TW6 2GD proxy appointment from the Depositary, JP Morgan Chase
and will also be broadcast live for you to join electronically. Bank NA. This will enable them to attend, ask questions and
vote, all electronically, on the business to be transacted at the
The AGM is the company’s principal forum for communication
meeting. ADS holders are reminded that if they do not instruct
with private shareholders. In addition to the formal AGM
the Depositary as to the way in which the shares represented
business, there will be a presentation by the CEO on the
by their ADS should be voted by completing and returning
performance of the Group and its future development. There
the voting card provided by the Depositary, their shares
will be an opportunity for questions to be asked of the Board
will not be voted.
and Chairs of the Board’s Committees will be available to take
questions relating to their roles.
Documents on display
Further details on how to access the AGM electronically or The Articles of Association of the company and Directors’
attend in person, ask questions and vote, can be found in the service contracts or, where applicable, letters of appointment
notice of Annual General Meeting 2023 (AGM Notice) which between Directors and the company or any of its subsidiaries
is available on our website at gsk.com. (and any side letters relating to severance terms and pension
Investors holding shares through a nominee service should arrangements) are available for inspection at the company’s
arrange with that service for them to be appointed as a proxy registered office and will be made available for inspection at
in respect of their shareholding to attend and vote at the the AGM.
meeting electronically.
Tax information for shareholders
A summary of certain UK tax and US federal income tax US holders of ADS generally will be treated as the owners of
consequences for holders of shares and ADS who are citizens the underlying shares for the purposes of the current UK/US
of the UK or the US is set out below. It is not a complete double taxation conventions relating to income and gains
analysis of all the possible tax consequences of the purchase, (Income Tax Convention), estate and gift taxes (Estate and Gift
ownership or sale of these securities. It is intended only as a Tax Convention), and for the purposes of the Internal Revenue
general guide. Holders are advised to consult their advisers Code of 1986, as amended.
with respect to the tax consequences of the purchase,
ownership or sale of their shares or ADS and the consequences
under state and local tax laws in the US and the implications of
the current UK/US tax conventions.GSK Annual Report 2022
Shareholder information continued
Tax information for shareholders continued
UK shareholders The overall exposure will be dependent on the specific
circumstances of each situation and it’s also important to note
This summary only applies to a UK resident shareholder that
that tax charges may arise in other jurisdictions. Bespoke advice
holds shares as capital assets.
tailored to an individual’s personal circumstances should
Taxation of dividends therefore be obtained from a tax professional.
For the 2022/23 UK tax year, UK resident individuals are
Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax
entitled to a dividend tax allowance of up to £2,000, so that
UK stamp duty and/or stamp duty reserve tax (SDRT) will,
the first £2,000 of dividends received in a tax year will be free
subject to certain exemptions, be payable on the transfer of
of tax. Dividends in excess of this allowance will be taxed at
shares at a rate of 0.5% (rounded up to the nearest £5 in the case
8.75% for basic rate taxpayers, 33.75% for higher rate
of stamp duty) of the consideration for the transfer.
taxpayers and 39.35% for additional rate taxpayers. Note that
Notwithstanding this, provided that an instrument is executed in
from 6 April 2023 the dividend allowance will be reduced to
pursuance of the agreement that gave rise to the charge to SDRT
£1,000, and that from 6 April 2024 the dividend allowance
and that instrument is stamped within six years of the agreement
will be reduced again to £500
(including being stamped as exempt) any SDRT charge should
UK resident shareholders that are corporation taxpayers be cancelled and any SDRT which has already been paid will be
should note that dividends payable on ordinary shares are repaid. Where listed shares are transferred to a company
generally entitled to exemption from corporation tax. connected to the transferor the chargeable consideration will be
deemed to be not less than the market value of the shares
Taxation of capital gains
transferred. This market value override also applies where
UK resident shareholders may be liable for UK tax on gains on
non-listed shares are transferred to a company connected to the
the disposal of shares or ADS.
transferor where the consideration includes an issue of shares.
For disposals by individuals in the 2022/23 UK tax year, a
US shareholders
taxable capital gain accruing on a disposal of shares or ADS
will be taxed at 10% for basic rate taxpayers, or 20% if, after This summary only applies to a shareholder (who is a citizen or
all allowable deductions, the individual’s taxable income for resident of the US or a domestic corporation or a person that
the year exceeds the basic rate income tax banding. Note this is otherwise subject to US federal income tax on a net income
is following the use of any exemptions available to the basis in respect of the shares or ADS) that holds shares or ADS as
individual taxpayer such as the annual exempt amount. capital assets, is not resident in the UK for UK tax purposes and
does not hold shares for the purposes of a trade, profession or
Corporation taxpayers may be entitled to an indexation
vocation that is carried on in the UK through a branch or agency.
allowance which applies to reduce capital gains to the extent
that such gains arise due to inflation. Indexation allowance The summary also does not address the tax treatment of holders
may reduce a chargeable gain but will not create an allowable that are subject to special tax rules, such as banks, tax-exempt
loss. For assets acquired on or before 1 January 2018, entities, insurance companies, dealers in securities or currencies,
legislation in the Finance Act 2018 freezes the level of persons that hold shares or ADS as part of an integrated
indexation allowance that is given in calculating a company’s investment (including a ‘straddle’) comprised of a share or ADS
chargeable gains at the value that would apply to the disposal and one or more other positions, and persons that own (directly,
of an asset in December 2017. For assets acquired from 1 indirectly or constructively) 10% or more of the company’s stock
January 2018 onwards, legislation in the Finance Act 2018 (by vote or value), nor does it address tax treatment that may be
removes any indexation allowance on disposal. applicable as a result of international income tax treaties.
Inheritance tax Taxation of dividends
Individual (UK-domiciled or otherwise) shareholders may be The gross amount of dividends received is treated as foreign
liable to UK inheritance tax on the transfer of shares or ADS. source dividend income for US tax purposes. It is not eligible for
Exposure to a UK Inheritance tax charge typically occurs on the dividend received deduction allowed to US corporations.
death of the asset owner. However, transfers of shares (other Dividends on ADS are payable in US dollars; dividends on
than commercial sales) within 7 years of death remain relevant Ordinary Shares are payable in Sterling. Dividends paid in
to any inheritance tax exposure at death. Further, transfers to a Sterling will be included in income in the US dollar amount
trust arrangement during lifetime can give rise to an immediate calculated by reference to the exchange rate on the day the
inheritance tax charge. dividends are received by the holder. Subject to certain
exceptions for short-term or hedged positions, an individual
Tax may be charged on the amount by which the value of the
eligible US holder will be subject to US taxation at a maximum
shareholder’s estate is reduced as a result of any transfer by way
federal rate of 23.8% plus applicable state and local tax in
of lifetime gift or other disposal at less than full market value. In
respect of qualified dividends. A qualified dividend as defined
the case of a bequest on death, tax may be charged on the
by the US Internal Revenue Service (IRS) is a dividend that
value of the shares at the date of the shareholder’s death.
meets the following criteria:
Where an exposure to UK inheritance tax and US estate or gift
tax exists careful planning must be undertaken to understand 1. M ust be issued by a US corporation, a corporation
the opportunity to utilise the US/UK Estate and Gift Double Tax incorporated in a US possession, or a corporation that is
Convention to manage tax credits and avoid double taxation. eligible for the benefits of a comprehensive income tax
treaty deemed satisfactory, as published by the IRS.
300301
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
GSK Annual Report 2022
Shareholder information continued
Tax information for shareholders continued
2. T he dividends are not of a type listed by the IRS as Estate and gift taxes
dividends that do not qualify.
Under the Estate and Gift Tax Convention, a US shareholder
3. The required dividend holding period has been met. The is not generally subject to UK inheritance tax. However, a US
shares must have been owned by you for more than 60 holder may be subject to US federal estate and gift tax.
days of the ‘holding period’ – which is defined as the
Stamp duty
121-day period that begins 60 days before the ex-dividend
date, or the day in which the stock trades without the UK stamp duty and/or SDRT will, subject to certain
dividend priced in. For example, if a stock’s ex-dividend exemptions, be payable on any transfer of shares to the ADS
date is 1 October, the shares must be held for more than 60 custodian or depository at a rate of 1.5% of the amount of any
days in the period between 2 August and 30 November of consideration provided (if transferred on sale), or their value (if
that year in order to count as a qualified dividend. transferred for no consideration).
Dividends that are not qualified are subject to taxation at the However, no stamp duty or SDRT should be payable on the
US federal graduated tax rates, at a maximum rate of 40.8%. transfer of, or agreement to transfer an ADS or on transfers
Some types of dividends are automatically excluded from within the clearance service. Notwithstanding the above,
being qualified dividends, even if they meet the other where the clearance service operator has made an election
requirements. These include (but are not limited to): under s97A Finance Act 1986, broadly the 1.5% stamp duty/
SDRT charge should not arise on the transfer into the
1. Capital gains distributions
clearance service, but transfers to, and within, the system
2. Dividends on bank deposits (where there is a change in beneficial ownership) would
3. D ividends held by a corporation in an Employee Stock attract a 0.5% charge.
Ownership Plan (ESOP)
Demerger and Share Consolidation
4. Dividends paid by tax-exempt corporations.
A summary of certain UK and US tax consequences in respect
US state and local tax rates on qualified and non-qualified of the Demerger and Share Consolidation relevant to the
dividends may vary and would be assessed in addition to the company’s shareholders who are resident (or, in the case of
federal tax rates communicated above. individuals, resident and domiciled) in the UK for UK tax
purposes or who are citizens of or resident in the US for US tax
Taxation of capital gains purposes is set out in Part 6 of the Circular (pages 83 to 87).
Generally, US holders will not be subject to UK capital gains The Circular, along with other information regarding the
tax, but will be subject to US tax on capital gains realised on Demerger and Share Consolidation can be found at gsk.com
the sale or other disposal of shares or ADS. Such gains will be in the demerger section.
long-term capital gains (subject to reduced rates of taxation
Further information on the tax base cost allocation to assist UK
for individual holders) if the shares or ADS were held for more
shareholders apportion their base cost between their GSK plc
than one year, from the date the shares were vested/released.
shares and Haleon plc shares for UK capital gains tax
Short-term capital gains can be subject to taxation of rates of
purposes following the Demerger, including a worked example,
up to 40.8%, whereas long-term capital gains may be subject
can be found in the Tax section at gsk.com in the demerger
to rates of up to 23.8%. State and local tax rates on capital
section.
gains may also apply.
Information reporting and backup withholding
Dividends and payments of the proceeds on a sale of shares or
ADS, paid within the US or through certain US-related financial
intermediaries, are subject to information reporting and may
be subject to backup withholding unless the US holder is a
corporation or other exempt recipient or provides a taxpayer
identification number and certifies that no loss of exemption
has occurred. Non-US holders generally are not subject to
information reporting or backup withholding, but may be
required to provide a certification of their non-US status in
connection with payments received. Any amounts withheld will
be allowed as a refund or credit against a holder’s US federal
income tax liability provided the required information is
furnished to the IRS.GSK Annual Report 2022
Other statutory disclosures
Shareholder services and contacts
Registrar
The company’s registrar is:
Equiniti Limited
Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, BN99 6DA
www.shareview.co.uk
Tel: +44 (0)371 384 2991*
Equiniti provides a range of services for shareholders:
Service What it offers How to participate
Dividend Reinvestment Plan As an alternative to receiving cash dividends you may choose A DRIP election form, Terms and Conditions
(DRIP) to reinvest your dividends to buy more GSK shares. and information on fees can be downloaded
from www.shareview.co.uk or requested by
contacting Equiniti.
Dividend payment direct to your All dividends are paid directly into your bank or building society A dividend bank mandate form can be
bank account (Bank Mandate) account. To receive your cash dividends, you must provide Equiniti downloaded from www.shareview.co.uk
with your bank or building society account details. This is a quick and or requested by contacting Equiniti.
secure method of payment.
Dividend payment direct to bank Equiniti can convert your dividend into your local currency and send More information on the Overseas Payment
account for overseas shareholders it direct to your local bank account. The Overseas Payment Service Service (including information on fees) can
(Overseas Payment Service) is available in approximately 100 countries worldwide. be found at www.shareview.co.uk or by
contacting Equiniti.
Electronic communications Shareholders may elect to receive electronic notifications Please register at www.shareview.co.uk.
of company communications including our Annual Report,
dividend payments, dividend confirmations and the availability of
online voting for all general meetings. Each time GSK publishes
shareholder documents you will receive an email containing a link to
the document or relevant website.
Shareview portfolio service This enables you to create a free online portfolio to view your Please register at www.shareview.co.uk.
share balance and movements, update your address and
dividend payment instructions and register your votes for
our general meetings.
Deduplication of publications or If you receive duplicate copies of mailings, you may have more than Please contact Equiniti.
mailings one account. Please contact Equiniti and they will arrange for your
accounts to be merged into one for your convenience and to avoid
waste and unnecessary costs.
Share dealing service† Shareholders may trade shares, either held in certificated More information on the share dealing
(please note that market trading form or in our Corporate Sponsored Nominee, online, by telephone or service (including information on fees) can
hours are from 8.00am to 4.30pm via postal dealing service provided by Equiniti Financial Services be found at www.shareview.co.uk/dealing
UK time, Monday to Friday Limited. For online transactions, please log on to:
(excluding public holidays in www.shareview.co.uk/dealing.
England and Wales))
For telephone transactions, please call:
0345 603 7037 (in the UK) or
+44 (0)345 603 7037 (outside the UK).
Lines are open from 8.00am to 4.30pm
UK time, Monday to Friday (excluding
UK public holidays).
For postal transactions, please call:
0371 384 2991* to request a dealing form.
Corporate Sponsored Nominee This is a convenient way to manage your shares without requiring a An application form can be requested
Account share certificate. The service provides a facility for you to hold your from www.shareview.co.uk or by
shares in a nominee account sponsored by the company. You will contacting Equiniti.
continue to receive dividend payments and can attend and vote at
the company’s general meetings. Shareholders’ names do not appear
on the publicly available share register and the service is free to join.
Individual Savings Accounts (ISAs)† Equiniti Financial Services Limited provide the EQi Flexible ISA Details (including information on fees) are
to hold GSK shares. available from www.eqi.co.uk or can be
requested by calling the Equiniti Customer
Experience Team on 0345 0700 720. Lines
are open 8:00am to 5:30pm, UK time
Monday to Friday (excluding UK public
holidays).
* Lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm, UK time Monday to Friday (excluding public holidays in England and Wales). Please use the country code when dialling from outside the UK.
† The provision of share dealing details is not intended to be an invitation or inducement to engage in an investment activity. Advice on share dealing should be obtained from a
stockbroker or independent financial adviser.
302303
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
GSK Annual Report 2022
Shareholder information continued
Shareholders services and contacts continued
ADS Depositary Contacts
The ADR programme is administered by JP Morgan Investor relations
Chase Bank, NA: Investor relations may be contacted as follows:
Regular Correspondence: UK
EQ Shareowner Services 980 Great West Road
P.O. Box 64504 Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS
St. Paul, MN 55164-0504 Tel: +44 (0)20 8047 5000
Delivery of Stock Certificates and Overnight Mail:
US
EQ Shareowner Services
2929 Walnut Street
1110 Centre Pointe Curve, Suite 101
Philadelphia PA 19104
Mendota Heights, MN 55120-4100
Tel: +1 888 825 5249 (US toll free)
shareowneronline.com/informational/contact-us/ Tel: +1 215 751 4000 (outside the US)
From the US: +1 877 353 1154
GSK Response Center
From outside the US: +1 651 453 2128
Tel: +1 888 825 5249 (US toll free)
The Depository also provides Global Invest Direct, a direct Tel: +1 215 751 4600 (outside the US)
ADS purchase/sale and dividend reinvestment plan for ADS
holders. For details on how to enrol please visit www.adr.com Share scam alert
If you receive an unsolicited telephone call offering to sell or
or call the above helpline number to obtain an enrolment
buy your shares, please take extra care. The caller may be part pack.
of a highly organised financial scam.
Donating shares to Save the Children
If you are a UK shareholder, please contact the Financial
In 2013, GSK embarked on an ambitious global partnership
Conduct Authority at www.fca.org.uk/consumers or on its
with Save the Children to share our expertise and resources
consumer helpline:
with the aim of finding innovative ways to reduce the number
of children dying from preventable diseases. Tel: 0800 111 6768 (in the UK)*
Shareholders with a small number of shares, the value of which Tel: +44 207 066 1000 (outside the UK)*
makes it uneconomical to sell, may wish to consider donating * Lines are open from 8.00am to 6.00pm, UK time, Monday to Friday, except UK
them to Save the Children. Donated shares will be aggregated public holidays, and 9.00am to 1.00pm on Saturdays.
and sold on behalf of Save the Children who will use the funds
raised to help them reach the above goal.†
To obtain a share donation form, please contact our registrar,
Equiniti, which is managing the donation and sale of UK shares
to Save the Children free of charge.
† The provision of share dealing details is not intended to be an invitation or
inducement to engage in an investment activity. Advice on share dealing should
be obtained from a stockbroker or independent financial adviser.
Stock Exchange announcement notifications
We provide shareholders with a service to receive automatic
email notifications when we publish a stock exchange
announcement. To receive email notifications, please sign up
for announcements at gsk.com in the Investors section.GSK Annual Report 2022
Other statutory disclosures continued
US law and regulation
A number of provisions of US law and regulation apply to the Section 302: Corporate responsibility for
company because our shares are quoted on the NYSE in the
financial reports
form of ADS.
Sarbanes-Oxley requires for the CEO and the CFO to complete
NYSE rules formal certifications, confirming that:
In general, the NYSE rules permit the company to follow UK – they have each reviewed the annual report on Form 20-F;
corporate governance practices instead of those applied in
– based on their knowledge, the annual report on Form 20-F
the US, provided that we explain any significant variations.
contains no material misstatements or omissions;
This explanation is contained in our Form 20-F, which can be
accessed from the SEC's EDGAR database or via our website. – based on their knowledge, the financial statements and
NYSE rules require us to file annual and interim written other financial information fairly present, in all material
affirmations concerning our Audit & Risk Committee (ARC) respects, the financial condition, results of operations and
and our statement on significant differences in corporate cash flows as of the dates, and for the periods, presented in
governance. the annual report on Form 20-F;
– they are responsible for establishing and maintaining
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
disclosure controls and procedures that ensure that material
Following a number of corporate and accounting scandals in information is made known to them, and have evaluated the
the US, Congress passed the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. effectiveness of these controls and procedures as at the year
Sarbanes-Oxley is a wide-ranging piece of legislation end, the results of such evaluation being contained in the
concerned largely with financial reporting and corporate annual report on Form 20-F;
governance.
– they are responsible for establishing and maintaining
As recommended by the SEC, the company has an established internal control over financial reporting that provides
Disclosure Committee. The Committee reports to the CEO, the reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
CFO and to the ARC. It is chaired by the Company Secretary reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
and its members consist of senior managers from finance, external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
legal, corporate communications and investor relations. accounting principles; and
Where appropriate, external legal counsel, the external – they have disclosed in the annual report on Form 20-F any
auditors, our sponsor bank, and internal experts are invited to changes in internal controls over financial reporting during
attend the Disclosure Committee’s meetings periodically. The the period covered by the annual report on Form 20-F that
Committee has responsibility for considering the materiality of have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to affect
information and, on a timely basis, determining the disclosure materially, the company’s internal control over financial
of that information. It has responsibility for the timely filing of reporting, and they have disclosed, based on their most
reports with the SEC and the formal review of the Annual recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting,
Report and Form 20-F. In 2022, the Committee met 28 times, to the external auditor and the ARC, all significant
including for the purpose of receiving relevant and appropriate deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
training. operation of internal controls over financial reporting which
Sarbanes-Oxley requires that the annual report on Form 20-F are reasonably likely to affect adversely the company’s
contains a statement as to whether a member of the ARC is ability to record, process, summarise and report financial
an audit committee financial expert, as defined in rules under information, and any fraud (regardless of materiality)
Sarbanes-Oxley. Such a statement for the relevant members involving persons that have a significant role in the
of the ARC (Charles Bancroft) is included in the Board company’s internal control over financial reporting.
Committee information area of the Corporate Governance The Group has carried out an evaluation under the supervision
report on page 109 and in his biography on page 98. and with the participation of its management, including the
Additional disclosure requirements arise under section 302 and CEO and CFO, of the effectiveness of the design and operation
section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley in respect of disclosure controls of the Group’s disclosure controls and procedures as at 31
and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. December 2022.
There are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any
system of disclosure controls and procedures, including the
possibility of human error and the circumvention or overriding
of the controls and procedures. Accordingly, even effective
disclosure controls and procedures can only provide
reasonable assurance of achieving their control objectives.
304305
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
GSK Annual Report 2022
Other statutory disclosures continued
US law and regulation continued
The CEO and CFO expect to complete these certifications The Group exports certain pharmaceutical, vaccine and
and report their conclusions on the effectiveness of disclosure consumer products to Iran, via sales by non-US entities that
controls and procedures in March 2023, following which the are not subsidiaries of a US entity, to two privately held Iranian
certifications will be filed with the SEC as part of our Group’s distributors.
Form 20-F.
The Group does not regularly receive information regarding
the identity of its distributors' downstream customers and
Section 404: Management’s annual report on
intermediaries in Iran, and it is possible that these parties
internal control over financial reporting
include entities, such as government-owned hospitals and
In accordance with the requirements of section 404 of pharmacies, that are owned directly or indirectly by the Iranian
Sarbanes-Oxley, the following report is provided by government or by persons or entities sanctioned in connection
management in respect of the company’s internal control over with terrorism or proliferation activities.
financial reporting (as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)
Because the Group does not regularly receive information
under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended
regarding the identity of its distributors' downstream customers
(the Exchange Act)):
it cannot establish the proportion of gross revenue or sales
– management is responsible for establishing and maintaining potentially attributable to entities affiliated with the Iranian
adequate internal control over financial reporting for the government or parties sanctioned for disclosable activities.
Group. Internal control over financial reporting is designed As a result, the Group is reporting the entire gross revenues
to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of (£8.7 million) and net profits (£3.7 million) from the Group's
financial reporting and the preparation of financial sales to Iran in 2022.
statements for external purposes in accordance with IFRS;
The Group is also aware that some hospitals or other medical
– management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness facilities in Lebanon may be affiliated with or controlled by
of internal control over financial reporting based on the Hezbollah or other groups that are designated by the United
framework, Internal Control – Integrated Framework (2013) States pursuant to Executive Order 13224. Again, the Group
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of does not deal directly with such hospitals or facilities and
the Treadway Commission (COSO); instead sells through distributors. The Group is unable to
– there have been no changes in the Group’s internal control establish the proportion of gross revenue or sales potentially
over financial reporting during 2022 that have materially attributable to reportable activities. As a result, the Group is
affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the reporting the entire gross revenues (£6.3 million) and net losses
Group’s internal control over financial reporting; (£0.2 million) from the Group's sales to Lebanon in 2022.
– management has assessed the effectiveness of internal Unless noted, the Group intends to continue the activities
control over financial reporting as at 31 December 2022 described above.
and its conclusion will be filed as part of the Group’s Form In addition to Section 13(r) of the Exchange Act, US law
20-F; and generally restricts dealings by US persons and dealings that
– Deloitte LLP, which has audited the consolidated financial otherwise are subject to US jurisdiction with certain countries
statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December or territories that are subject to comprehensive sanctions,
2022, has also assessed the effectiveness of the Group’s currently Crimea, Cuba, the so-called Donetsk People's
internal control over financial reporting under Auditing Republic, Iran, the so-called Luhansk People's Republic, North
Standard 2201 of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Korea and Syria, as well as with the Government of Venezuela
Board (United States). Their audit report will be filed with the (though not with the country of Venezuela as a whole). The
Group’s Form 20-F. Group does business, via non-US entities (which are not owned
or controlled by US entities), in certain such jurisdictions. While
Section 13(r) of the Exchange Act we believe the Group complies with all applicable US sanctions
Section 13(r) of the Exchange Act requires issuers to make in all material respects, such laws are complex and continue to
specific disclosure in their annual reports of certain types of evolve rapidly.
dealings with Iran, including transactions or dealings with
government-owned or-controlled entities, as well as dealings
with entities sanctioned for activities related to terrorism or
proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, even when
those activities are not prohibited by US law and do not
involve US persons.GSK Annual Report 2022
Other statutory disclosures continued
Donations to political organisations and political expenditure
To ensure a consistent approach to political contributions As a result, the definitions may cover legitimate business
across the Group, in 2009 a global policy was introduced activities not in the ordinary sense considered to be political
to voluntarily stop all corporate political contributions. donations or political expenditure, nor are they designed to
support any political party or independent election candidate.
In the period from 1 January 2009 to 31 December 2022,
the Group did not make any political donations to EU or Therefore, notwithstanding our policy, and while we do
non-EU organisations. not intend to make donations to any EU political parties or
organisations, nor to incur any EU political expenditure, we
Notwithstanding the introduction of this policy, in accordance
annually seek shareholder authorisation for any inadvertent
with the Federal Election Campaign Act in the US, we continue
expenditure.
to support an employee-operated Political Action Committee
(PAC) that facilitates voluntary political donations by eligible The authority is a precautionary measure to ensure that the
GSK employees. company and its subsidiaries do not inadvertently breach the
legislation.
The PAC is not controlled by GSK. Decisions on the amounts
and recipients of contributions are governed by the PAC Board This authorisation process, for expenditure of up to £100,000
of Directors. Contributions to the PAC are made by each year, dates back to the AGM held in May 2001, following
participating eligible employees exercising their legal right to the introduction of the Political Parties, Elections and
pool their resources and make political contributions, which are Referendums Act 2000. The authority has since been
subject to strict limitations under US law. In 2022, a total of renewed annually.
US$360,950 (2021: US$298,000) was donated to political
organisations by the GSK employee PAC.
English law requires prior shareholder approval for political
contributions to EU political parties and independent election
candidates as well as for any EU political expenditure. The
definitions of political donations, political expenditure and
political organisations used in the legislation are, however,
quite broad. In particular, the definition of EU political
organisations may extend to bodies such as those concerned
with policy review, law reform, the representation of the
business community and special interest groups such as
those concerned with the environment, which the company
and its subsidiaries might wish to support.
306307
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
GSK Annual Report 2022
Other statutory disclosures continued
Group companies
In accordance with Section 409 of the Companies Act 2006 a full list of subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures and joint
arrangements, the address of the registered office and effective percentage of equity owned, as at 31 December 2022 are
disclosed below. Unless otherwise stated the share capital disclosed comprises ordinary shares which are indirectly held by
GSK plc. The percentage held by class of share is stated where this is less than 100%. Unless otherwise stated,
all subsidiary companies have their registered office and are tax resident in their country of incorporation.
Name Security Registered address
Wholly owned subsidiaries
1506369 Alberta ULC Common 3500 855-2nd Street SW, Calgary AB T2P 4J8, Canada
Action Potential Venture Capital Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Adechsa GmbH (ii) Ordinary c/o PRV Provides Treuhandgesellschaft AG, Dorfstrasse 38, 6341, Baar,
Switzerland
Affinivax Securities Corporation Common c/o Affinivax, Inc., 301 Binney Street, Cambridge MA 02142, United
States
Affinivax, Inc. Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE
19808, United States
Allen & Hanburys Limited (ii) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Allen & Hanburys Pharmaceutical Nigeria Limited Ordinary 49, Town Planning Way, Ilupeju, Lagos, Nigeria
Allen Pharmazeutika Gesellschaft m.b.H. Ordinary Wienerbergstraße 7, Wien, 1100, Austria, Austria
BEECHAM GROUP p.l.c 5p Ordinary B; 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
20p Ordinary A
Beecham Pharmaceuticals (Pte) Limited Ordinary 38 Quality Road, Jurong Industrial Estate, Jurong, 618809, Singapore
Beecham Portuguesa-Produtos Farmaceuticos e Quimicos, Lda, Quota Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, 1495-131,
Alges, Portugal
Beecham S.A. Ordinary Avenue Fleming 20, 1300 Wavre, Belgium
Biovesta Ilaçlari Ltd. Sti. (ii) Nominative Büyükdere Caddesi No. 173, 1.Levent Plaza B Blok, 1.Levent, Istanbul,
34394, Turkey
Cascan GmbH & Co. KG Partnership Capital Prinzregentenplatz 9, 81675, Munich, Germany
Cellzome GmbH Ordinary Meyerhofstrasse 1, 69117, Heidelberg, Germany
Cellzome Limited (in liquidation) Ordinary c/o BDO LLP, 5 Temple Square, Temple Street, Liverpool, L2 5RH, United
Kingdom
Charles Midgley Limited (in liquidation) Ordinary c/o BDO LLP, 5 Temple Square, Temple Street, Liverpool, L2 5RH, United
Kingdom
Clarges Pharmaceuticals Limited (in liquidation) Ordinary; c/o BDO LLP, 5 Temple Square, Temple Street, Liverpool, L2 5RH, United
Preference Kingdom
Clarges Pharmaceutical Trustees Limited (ii) (iv) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Colleen Corporation Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE
19808, United States
Corixa Corporation Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE
19808, United States
Dealcyber Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Desarrollo Energia Solar Alternativa S.L. Ordinary Severo Ochoa, 2, Parque Tecnologico de Madrid, Tres Cantos, 28760,
Madrid, Spain
Duncan Pharmaceuticals Philippines Inc. Common 23rd Floor, The Finance Centre, 26th Street Corner 9th Avenue,
Bonifacio Global City, Taguig City, 1634, Philippines
Etex Farmaceutica Ltda Social Capital Av. Andrés Bello 2457, Costanera Center, Torre 2, Piso 20, Providencia,
Santiago, 7510689, Chile
Genelabs Technologies, Inc. Common Corporation Service Company, 2710 Gateway Oaks Drive, Suite 150N,
Sacramento CA 95833, United States
Glaxo Group Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Glaxo Kabushiki Kaisha (ii) Ordinary 1-8-1 Akasaka Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan
Glaxo Laboratories (Nigeria) Limited (ii) Ordinary 82 Marine Road, Apapa, Lagos, Nigeria
Glaxo Laboratories Limited (In Liquidation) Ordinary 55 Baker Street, London, W1U 7EU, United Kingdom
Glaxo New Zealand Pension Plan Trustee Limited Ordinary Level 2 E.2, Generator at GridAKL, 12 Madden Street, Wynyard Quarter,
Auckland, 1010, New Zealand
Glaxo Operations UK Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Glaxo Properties BV Ordinary Van Asch van Wijckstraat 55h, 3811 LP, Amersfoort, Netherlands
Glaxo Trustees Limited (in liquidation) Ordinary 55 Baker Street, London, W1U 7EU, United Kingdom
Glaxo Verwaltungs GmbH Ordinary Prinzregentenplatz 9, 81675, Munich, Germany
Glaxo Wellcome Farmaceutica, Limitada Ordinary Quota Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, 1495-131,
Alges, Portugal
Glaxo Wellcome Manufacturing Pte Ltd Ordinary 1 Pioneer Sector 1, Jurong Industrial Estate, Jurong, 628413, Singapore
Glaxo Wellcome Production Ordinary 23 rue François Jacob, 92500, Rueil-Malmaison, France
Glaxo Wellcome Vidhyasom Limited (ii) Ordinary 12th Floor Wave Place, 55 Wireless Road, Lumpini, Pathumwan,
Bangkok, 10330, ThailandGSK Annual Report 2022
Other statutory disclosures continued
Group companies continued
Name Security Registered address
Wholly owned subsidiaries continued
Glaxo Wellcome, S.A. Ordinary Poligono Industrial Allendeduero, Avenida de Extremadura, 3, Aranda
de Duero, 09400, Burgos, Spain
Glaxo, S.A. Ordinary Severo Ochoa, 2, Parque Tecnologico de Madrid, Tres Cantos, 28760,
Madrid, Spain
Glaxo-Allenburys (Nigeria) Limited (ii) Ordinary 41 Creek Road, Apapa, Lagos, PMB 1401, Nigeria
Glaxochem Pte Ltd (iii) Ordinary 23 Rochester Park, 139234, Singapore
GlaxoSmithKline - Produtos Farmaceuticos, Limitada Ordinary Quota Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, 1495-131,
Alges, Portugal
GlaxoSmithKline (Cambodia) Co., Ltd. Ordinary 5th Floor DKSH Building, No.797 Preah Monivong Boulevard (Co,
Sangkat Phsar Deum Thakov, Khan Chamkarmon, Phnom Penh,
Cambodia
GlaxoSmithKline (China) Investment Co Ltd Ordinary Room 901, 902, 903, 905, 908, 909 and 910, Unit 901, Floor 9, No. 56 Mid
4th East Ring Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing, China
GlaxoSmithKline (China) R&D Company Limited Equity F1-3, No.18 Building, 999 Huanke Road, Pilot Free Trade Zone, Shanghai,
201210, China
GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) S.R.L. Ordinary 1-5 Costache Negri Street, Opera Center One, 5th and 6th floors, Zone 1,
District 5, Bucharest, Romania
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited Ordinary 12 Riverwalk, Citywest Business Campus, Dublin 24, Ireland
GlaxoSmithKline (Israel) Ltd Ordinary 25 Basel Street, PO Box 10283, Petach-Tikva, 49002, Israel
GlaxoSmithKline (Malta) Limited Ordinary 1, First Floor, De La Cruz Avenue, Qormi, QRM2458, Malta
GlaxoSmithKline (Private) Limited (ii) Ordinary Unit 3, 20 Anthony Road, Msasa, Harare, Zimbabwe
GlaxoSmithKline (Thailand) Limited Ordinary 12th Floor Wave Place, 55 Wireless Road, Lumpini, Pathumwan,
Bangkok, 10330, Thailand
GlaxoSmithKline AB Ordinary Hemvarnsg. 9, 171 54, Solna, Sweden
GlaxoSmithKline AG Ordinary Talstrasse 3-5, 3053 Muenchenbuchsee, Switzerland
GlaxoSmithKline Angola Unipessoal Limitada Quota Luanda, Bairro Petrangol, Estrada de Cacuaco n ° 288, Angola
GlaxoSmithKline Argentina S.A. Ordinary Tucumán 1, piso 4, Buenos Aires, C1049AAA, Argentina
GlaxoSmithKline AS Ordinary Drammensveien 288, Oslo, NO-0283, Norway
GlaxoSmithKline Australia Pty Ltd Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia Victoria VIC 3155, Australia
GlaxoSmithKline B.V. Ordinary Van Asch van, Wijckstraat 55h, 3811 LP Amersfoort, The Netherlands,
Netherlands
GlaxoSmithKline Beteiligungs GmbH Ordinary Prinzregentenplatz 9, 81675, Munchen, Germany
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals Kft. Ordinary 2100 Gödöllõ, Homoki Nagy István utca 1, Hungary
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals S.A.S. Ordinary 637 Rue des Aulnois, Saint-Amand Les Eaux, 59230, France
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals SA Ordinary; Rue de l'Institut 89 B-1330 Rixensart, Belgium
Preference
GlaxoSmithKline Brasil Limitada Quotas Estrada dos Banderiantes, 8464, Rio de Janeiro, 22783-110, Brazil
GlaxoSmithKline Capital Inc. Common Wilmington Trust SP Services, Inc., 1100 N. Market Street, 4th Floor,
Wilmington DE 19890, United States
GlaxoSmithKline Capital plc Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Caribbean Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Chile Farmaceutica Limitada Social Capital Av Andrés Bello 2457, Torre 2, piso 20, Providencia, Santiago, Región
Metropolitana, Chile
GlaxoSmithKline Colombia S.A. Ordinary Avenida El Dorado, #69B-45/Piso 9, Bogota, Colombia
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Holding B.V. (ii) Ordinary Van Asch van Wijckstraat 55h, 3811 LP, Amersfoort, Netherlands
GlaxoSmithKline d.o.o Sarajevo – u likvidaciji (In Liquidation) Quotas Zmja od Bosne broj 7-7a, Sarajevo, 71000, Bosnia and Herzegovina
GlaxoSmithKline d.o.o. Equity Capital Ulica Damira Tomljanovica Gavrana 15, Zagreb, Croatia
GlaxoSmithKline doo Beograd-Novi Beograd – U LIKVIDACIJI Ordinary Milutin Milankovic, 1J, Novi Beograd, Belgrade, 11070, Serbia
(In liquidation)
GlaxoSmithKline Ecuador S.A. Ordinary Av 10 De Agosto N36-239, y Naciones Unidas, Edificio
Electroectuatoriana, 2do piso, Quito, Ecuador
GlaxoSmithKline El Salvador S.A. de C.V. Ordinary Municipio de San Salvador, Departamento de San Salvador,
El Salvador
GlaxoSmithKline EOOD Ordinary 16 Nedelcho Bonchev str., Sofia, 1592, Bulgaria
GlaxoSmithKline Export Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Export Panama S.A. Ordinary Panama City, Republic of Panama, Panama
GlaxoSmithKline Far East B.V. Ordinary Van Asch van Wijckstraat 55h, 3811 LP, Amersfoort, Netherlands
GlaxoSmithKline Finance plc Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline GmbH & Co. KG Partnership Capital Prinzregentenplatz 9, 81675, Munchen, Germany
GlaxoSmithKline Guatemala S.A. Ordinary 3ra. Av. 13-78 Zona 10, Torre Citibank, Nivel 8, Guatemala City,
Guatemala
GlaxoSmithKline Holding AS Ordinary Drammensveien 288, Oslo, NO-0283, Norway
GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (Americas) Inc. Common Wilmington Trust SP Services Inc., 1100 North Market Street, 4th Floor,
Wilmington, Delaware, 19890
GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (One) Limited (i) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Holdings Limited (i) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
308309
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
GSK Annual Report 2022
Other statutory disclosures continued
Group companies continued
Name Security Registered address
Wholly owned subsidiaries continued
GlaxoSmithKline Holdings Pty Ltd Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia Victoria VIC 3155, Australia
GlaxoSmithKline Honduras S.A. Ordinary Tegucigalpa, MDC, Honduras
GlaxoSmithKline IHC Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Ilaclari Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S. Nominative Büyükdere Caddesi No. 173, 1.Levent Plaza B Blok, 1.Levent, Istanbul,
34394, Turkey
GlaxoSmithKline Inc. Class A Common; 100 Milverton Drive, Suite 800 , Mississauga ON L5R 4H1, Canada
Class C Preference
GlaxoSmithKline Insurance Ltd. Ordinary c/o Trinity Corporate Services Ltd., Trinity Hall, 43 Cedar Avenue,
Hamilton, Hamilton, HM12, Bermuda
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property (No.2) Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property Development Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property Holdings Limited A Ordinary; 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
B Ordinary
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property Limited Deferred; 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Ordinary
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property Management Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Investigación y Desarrollo, S.L. Ordinary Severo Ochoa 2 Parque Tecnológico de Madrid, Tres Cantos, 28760,
Madrid, Spain
GlaxoSmithKline Investments Pty Ltd Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia Victoria VIC 3155, Australia
GlaxoSmithKline K.K. Ordinary 1-8-1 Akasaka Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan
GlaxoSmithKline Korea Limited Ordinary 9F LS Yongsan Tower, 92 Hangang-daero, Yongsan-gu, Seoul, 04386,
Korea, Republic of
GlaxoSmithKline Latin America, S.A. Ordinary Panama City, Republic of Panama, Panama
GlaxoSmithKline Lietuva UAB Ordinary Ukmerges st. 120, Vilnius, LT-08105, Lithuania
GlaxoSmithKline Limited Ordinary 23/F., Tower 6, The Gateway, 9 Canton Road, Tsimshatsui, Kowloon,
Hong Kong
GlaxoSmithKline Limited (ii) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline LLC LLC Interests Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE
19808, United States
GlaxoSmithKline Manufacturing SpA Ordinary Viale dell’Agricoltura 7, 37135, Verona, Italy
GlaxoSmithKline Maroc S.A. Ordinary 42-44 Angle Bd, Rachidi et Abou Hamed El Glaza, Casablanca,
Morocco
GlaxoSmithKline Medical and Healthcare Products Limited Ordinary H-1124, Csorsz utca 43, Budapest, Hungary
GlaxoSmithKline Mercury Limited (i) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Mexico S.A. de C.V. Ordinary A; Av. Real Mayorazgo 130 Piso 20, Colonia Xoco, Alcaldia Benito Juárez,
Ordinary B Ciudad de Mexico, 03330, Mexico
GlaxoSmithKline NZ Limited Ordinary Level 2 E.2, Generator @GridAKL, 12 Madden Street, Wynyard Quarter,
Auckland, 1010, New Zealand
GlaxoSmithKline Oy Ordinary Piispansilta 9A, P.O. Box 24, Espoo, FIN-02230, Finland
GlaxoSmithKline Peru S.A. Ordinary Av. Víctor Andrés Belaúnde N°147, Vía Principal N°133, Piso 7, Distrito de
San Isidro, Lima, Lima, Perú
GlaxoSmithKline Pharma A/S Ordinary Vallensbæk Company House III , Delta Park 37, DK-2665, Valle,
Denmark
GlaxoSmithKline Pharma GmbH Ordinary Wienerbergstraße 7, Wien, 1100, Austria, Austria
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceutical Kenya Limited Ordinary Likoni Road, Nairobi, 78392 - 00507, Kenya
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceutical Nigeria Limited Ordinary 1 Industrial Avenue, Ilupeju, Ikeja, Lagos, PM B 21218, Nigeria
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceutical Sdn Bhd Ordinary HZ.01, Horizon Penthouse, 1 Powerhouse, 1, Persiaran Bandar Utama,
Bandar Utama, 47800 Petaling Jaya, Selangor, Malaysia
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals (Pvt) Ltd Ordinary 121 Galle Road, Kaldemulla, Moratuwa, Sri Lanka
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Costa Rica S.A Ordinary Autopista Florencia del Castillo, kilómetro siete, Oficentro TerraCampus,
edificio uno, cuarto piso, San Diego, Cartago, 30302, Costa Rica
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals SA Ordinary Site Apollo, Avenue Pascal 2-4-6, Wavre, 1300, Belgium
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Ukraine LLC Chartered Capital Pavla Tychyny avenue, 1-V, Kiev, 02152, Ukraine
GlaxoSmithKline Philippines Inc Ordinary 23rd Floor, The Finance Centre, 26th Street Corner 9th Avenue,
Bonifacio Global City, Taguig City, 1634, Philippines
GlaxoSmithKline Pte Ltd Ordinary 23 Rochester Park, 139234, Singapore
GlaxoSmithKline Puerto Rico, Inc. Common Corporation Service Company Puerto Rico Inc., c/o RVM Professional
Services, LLC, A4 Reparto Mendoza, Humacao, 00791, Puerto Rico
GlaxoSmithKline Republica Dominicana S.A. Ordinary Blue Mall Tower, Floor 23 Ave., Winston Churchill 95, Santo Domingo,
Dominican Republic
GlaxoSmithKline Research & Development Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline S.A. Ordinary Severo Ochoa, 2, Parque Tecnologico de Madrid, Tres Cantos, 28760,
Madrid, Spain
GlaxoSmithKline S.p.A. Ordinary Viale dell’Agricoltura 7, 37135, Verona, Italy
GlaxoSmithKline s.r.o. Ordinary Hvezdova 1734/2c, Prague, 4 140 00, Czech Republic
GlaxoSmithKline Services GmbH & Co. KG Partnership Capital Prinzregentenplatz 9, 81675, Munchen, GermanyGSK Annual Report 2022
Other statutory disclosures continued
Group companies continued
Name Security Registered address
Wholly owned subsidiaries continued
GlaxoSmithKline Services Unlimited (i) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Single Member A.E.B.E. Ordinary 266 Kifissias Avenue, Halandri, Athens, 152 32, Greece
GlaxoSmithKline SL LLC LLC Interests Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE
19808, United States
GlaxoSmithKline SL LP (ii) (viii) Partnership 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Slovakia s.r.o., v likvidácii (In Liquidation) Ordinary KPMG Slovensko Advisory k.s., Dvořákovo nábrežie 10, 811 02 Bratislava,
Slovakia
GlaxoSmithKline South Africa (Pty) Limited Ordinary Flushing Meadows Building, The Campus, 57 Sloane Street, Bryanston
2021, South Africa
GlaxoSmithKline Trading Services Limited (iii) Ordinary 12 Riverwalk, Citywest Business Campus, Dublin 24, Ireland
GlaxoSmithKline Tunisia S.A.R.L. Ordinary Immeuble REGUS, Lot B17, Centre Urbain Nord, Tunis, Tunisia
GlaxoSmithKline UK Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Uruguay S.A. Registered Provisory Stock Salto 1105, CP 11.200 Montevideo, Uruguay
GlaxoSmithKline US Trading Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Venezuela C.A. Ordinary Calle Altagracia, edificio P&G, piso Mezzanina, torre Torre Sur,
Urbanizacion Sorokaima, La Trinidad, Caracas, 1080, Venezuela,
Bolivarian Republic of
GlaxoSmithKline Vietnam Limited Liability Company (ii) Equity Capital The Metropolitan, 235 Dong Khoi Street, District 1, 7th Floor Unit 701, Ho
Chi Minh City, Vietnam
GlycoVaxyn AG Common; Grabenstrasse 3, 8952 Schlieren, Switzerland
Preferred A;
Preferred B;
Preferred C
Groupe GlaxoSmithKline Ordinary 23 rue François Jacob, 92500, Rueil-Malmaison, France
GSK (No.3) Scottish Limited Partnership (x) Partnership 50 Lothian Road, Festival Square, Edinburgh, Scotland, EH3 9WJ,
United Kingdom
GSK Biopharma Argentina S.A. Nominative Non Endorseable Ordinary Tucumán 1, piso 4, Buenos Aires, C1049AAA, Argentina
GSK Business Service Centre Sdn Bhd Ordinary Level 6, Quill 9, 112 Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Petaling Jaya,, 46300
Selangor, Malaysia
GSK Capital K.K. Ordinary 1-8-1 Akasaka Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan
GSK Commercial Sp. z o.o. Ordinary ul. Rzymowskiego 53, 02-697, Warsaw, Poland
GSK d.o.o., Ljubljana Ordinary Ameriška ulica 8,, Ljubljana, 1000, Slovenia
GSK Enterprise Management Co, Ltd Ordinary Floor 4, 18 Lane 999 Huanke Road, No. 1358 Zhongke Road, Shanghai,
China
GSK Equity Investments, Limited Units Corporation Service Company, 2595 Interstate Drive, Suite 103,
Harrisburg PA 17110, United States
GSK Finance (No 2) Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GSK Finance (No 3) plc Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GSK India Global Services Private Limited Equity Level 1, 2 & 3 Luxor North Tower, Bagmane Capital Business Park Outer
Ring Road, Bangalore, Karnataka, 560037, India
GSK International Holding and Finance BV Ordinary Van Asch van Wijckstraat 55h, 3811 LP, Amersfoort, Netherlands
GSK Kazakhstan LLP Participation interest 273, Furmanov Street, Almaty, Medeu District, 050059, Kazakhstan
GSK Pharma India Private Limited Equity 1, Battery House, Bhulabhai Desai Raod, Mumbai, Maharashtra,
400026, India
GSK Pharma Vietnam Company Limited Chartered Capital Unit 702/703 7th Floor, The Metropolitan Tower, 235 Dong Khoi Street,
Ben Nghe Ward, District 1, Ho Chi Minh, Vietnam
GSK Pharmaceutical Trading S.A. (ii) Ordinary Bucharest, 1-5 Costache Negri Street, Opera Center One, 5th floor,
discussions room 01, District 5, Romania
GSK PSC Poland sp. z o.o. Equal and indivisible shares ul. Grunwaldzka 189, Poznań, 60-322, Pol
GSK Services Sp z o.o. Ordinary Ul. Grunwaldzka 189, 60-322, Poznan, Poland
GSK Vaccines BV Ordinary Hullenbergweg 85, 1101 CL, Amsterdam, Netherlands
GSK Vaccines GmbH Ordinary Emil-von-Behring-Str.76, 35041 Marburg, Germany
GSK Vaccines Institute for Global Health S.r.l. Quotas Via Fiorentina 1, 53100, Siena, Italy
GSK Vaccines S.r.l. Quotas Via Fiorentina 1, 53100, Siena, Italy
GSK Vaccines Vertriebs GmbH Ordinary Rudolf-Diesel-Ring 27, 83607, Holzkirchen, Germany
Human Genome Sciences, Inc. Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE
19808, United States
ID Biomedical Corporation of Quebec Common 2323, boul. Du Parc Technologique, Québec Québec G1P 4R8, Canada
Instituto Luso Farmaco, Limitada (ii) Quotas Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, 1495-131,
Alges, Portugal
InterPharma Dienstleistungen GmbH (ii) Quotas Wienerbergstraße 7, Wien, 1100, Austria, Austria
J&J Technologies, LC (ii) LLC Interests Corporation Service Company, 100 Shockoe Slip, 2nd Floor, Richmond
VA 23219, United States
JSC GlaxoSmithKline Trading Ordinary Leningradskiy Prospect 37A, Building 4, Floor 3, Premises XV, Room 1,
125167, Moscow, Russian Federation
310311
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
GSK Annual Report 2022
Other statutory disclosures continued
Group companies continued
Name Security Registered address
Wholly owned subsidiaries continued
Laboratoire GlaxoSmithKline Ordinary 23 rue François Jacob, 92500, Rueil-Malmaison, France
Laboratoire Pharmaceutique Algérien LPA Production SPA Ordinary Zone Industrielle Est, Boudouaou, Boumerdes, Algeria
Laboratoire Pharmaceutique Algérien SPA Ordinary Zone Industrielle Est, Boudouaou, Boumerdes, Algeria
Laboratoires Paucourt (ii) Ordinary 23 rue François Jacob, 92500, Rueil-Malmaison, France
Laboratoires Saint-Germain (ii) Ordinary 23 rue François Jacob, 92500, Rueil-Malmaison, France
Laboratorios Dermatologicos Darier, S.A de C.V. Ordinary A; Av. Real Mayorazgo 130 Piso 20, Colonia Xoco, Alcaldia Benito Juárez,
Ordinary B Ciudad de Mexico, 03330, Mexico
Laboratorios Farmaceuticos Stiefel (Portugal) LTDA (ii) Ordinary Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, 1495-131,
Alges, Portugal
Laboratorios Stiefel de Venezuela SA Ordinary Calle Altagracia, Edificio P&G, Nivel Mezzanina, Piso Mezzanina,
local Torre Sur, Urbanizacion Sorokaima, La Trinidad, Caracas, 1080,
Venezuela, Bolivarian Republic of
Laboratorios Stiefel Ltda. Ordinary Rua Professor Joao Cavalheiro Salem, no.1077, Bairro de Bonsucesso,
Municipality of Guarulhos, Sao Paulo, CEP 07243-580, Brazil
Laboratorios Wellcome De Portugal Limitada (ii) Quotas Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, 1495-131,
Alges, Portugal
Montrose Pharma Company Limited (ii) Ordinary Quota H-1124, Csorsz utca 43, Budapest, Hungary
PT Glaxo Wellcome Indonesia Class A; JL. Pulobuaran Raya Kav.III/DD 2,3,4 KWS. Industri, Pulogadung,
Class B Jatinegara, Cakung, Jakarta Timur, Indonesia
Setfirst Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Sierra Oncology Australia Pty Ltd Ordinary c/o Maddocks Lawyers, Angel Place, Level 27, 123 Pitt Street Sydney
2000, Australia
Sierra Oncology Canada ULC Common 355 Burrard Street, Suite 1000, Vancouver, British Columbia V6C 2G8,
Canada
Sierra Oncology Canada, LLC LLC Interests Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE
19808, United States
Sierra Oncology, LLC Common Stock Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE
19808, United States
Sitari Pharma, Inc. Common Stock Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE
19808, United States
Smith Kline & French Portuguesa-Produtos Farmaceuticos, Ordinary Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, 1495-131,
LDA (ii) Alges, Portugal
SmithKline Beecham (Bangladesh) Private Limited (ii) Ordinary House-2/A, Road-138,Gulshan-1, Dhaka, 1212, Bangladesh
SmithKline Beecham (Cork) Limited Ordinary 12 Riverwalk, Citywest Business Campus, Dublin 24, Ireland
SmithKline Beecham (Manufacturing) Limited (In Liquidation) Ordinary 12 Riverwalk, Citywest Business Campus, Dublin 24, Ireland
SmithKline Beecham Egypt L.L.C. Quotas Amoun Street, El Salam City, Cairo, Egypt
SmithKline Beecham Farma, S.A. Ordinary Severo Ochoa, 2, Parque Tecnologico de Madrid, Tres Cantos, 28760,
Madrid, Spain
SmithKline Beecham Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
SmithKline Beecham Legacy H Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
SmithKline Beecham Pension Plan Trustee Limited (ii) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
SmithKline Beecham Pension Trustees Limited (In Liquidation) Ordinary 55 Baker Street, London, W1U 7EU, United Kingdom
SmithKline Beecham Pharma GmbH & Co KG Partnership Capital Prinzregentenplatz 9, 81675, Munchen, Germany
SmithKline Beecham Pharma Verwaltungs GmbH Ordinary Prinzregentenplatz 9, 81675, Munchen, Germany
SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals (Pty) Limited (ii) Ordinary Flushing Meadows Building, The Campus, 57 Sloane Street, Bryanston
2021, South Africa
SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals Co. Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE
19808, United States
SmithKline Beecham Senior Executive Pension Plan Trustee Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Limited (ii)
Stiefel GmbH & Co. KG Partnership Capital Prinzregentenplatz 9, 81675, Munchen, Germany
Stiefel Laboratories Legacy (Ireland) Limited Ordinary Unit 2 Building 2500, Avenue 2000 Cork Airport Business Park, Cork,
Ireland
Stiefel Laboratories Limited (In liquidation) Ordinary c/o BDO LLP, 5 Temple Square, Temple Street, Liverpool, L2 5RH,
United Kingdom
Stiefel Laboratories Pte Limited Ordinary 1 Pioneer Sector, 628413, Singapore
Stiefel Laboratories, Inc. Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE
19808, United States
Stiefel Maroc SARL Ordinary 275 Boulevard Zerktouni, Casablanca, Morocco
Stiefel Research (Australia) Holdings Pty Ltd Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia Victoria VIC 3155, Australia
Stiefel Research Australia Pty Ltd Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia Victoria VIC 3155, Australia
Stiefel West Coast LLC LLC Interests Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE
19808, United States
Strebor Inc. Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE
19808, United StatesGSK Annual Report 2022
Other statutory disclosures continued
Group companies continued
Name Security Registered address
Wholly owned subsidiaries continued
Tesaro Bio GmbH (In Liquidation) Ordinary Poststrasse 6, 6300 Zug, Switzerland
Tesaro Bio Netherlands B.V Ordinary Joop Geesinkweg 901, 1114 AB, Amsterdam-Duivendrecht, Netherlands
Tesaro Development, Ltd. Ordinary Clarendon House, 2 Church Street, Hamilton HM11, Bermuda
Tesaro, Inc. Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE
19808, United States
The Sydney Ross Co. (ii) Ordinary Corporation Service Company, Princeton South Corporate Center,
Suite 160, 100 Charles Ewing Blvd, Ewing NJ 08628, United States
UCB Pharma Asia Pacific Sdn Bhd (ii) Ordinary 12th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim,, Seksyen
13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Malaysia
Wellcome Consumer Healthcare Limited (ii) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Wellcome Consumer Products Limited (In Liquidation) Ordinary c/o BDO LLP, 5 Temple Square, Temple Street, Liverpool, L2 5RH,
United Kingdom
Wellcome Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Effective %
Name Security Ownership Registered address
Subsidiaries where the effective interest is less than 100%
Amoun Pharmaceutical Industries Co. S.A.E. New Monetary Shares 90.71% El Salam City 11491, PO Box 3001, Cairo, Egypt
(99.5%)
Biddle Sawyer Limited Equity 75.00% 252 Dr Annie Besant Road, Mumbai, 400030, India
British Pharma Group Limited Capital (50%) 50.00% 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Galvani Bioelectronics Inc. Common 55.00% Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE
19808, United States
Galvani Bioelectronics Limited A Ordinary; 55.00% 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
B Ordinary (0%)
Glaxo Saudi Arabia Limited Ordinary 75.00% PO Box 22617, Area No 56 to 73, Warehouse City, First Stage Al
Khomrah, Jeddah 21416, Saudi Arabia
GlaxoSmithKline (Tianjin) Co. Ltd Ordinary 90.00% No. 65, the Fifth Avenue, Tai Feng Industrial Park, Tianjin Economic and
Technolog, Tianjin, 300457, China
GlaxoSmithKline Algérie S.P.A. Ordinary 99.99% Zone Industrielle Est, Boudouaou, Wilaya de Boumerdes, Algeria
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Nigeria plc Ordinary 46.42% 1 Industrial Avenue, Ilupeju, Ikeja, Lagos, PM B 21218, Nigeria
GlaxoSmithKline Pakistan Limited Ordinary 82.59% The Sykes Building, 35 Dockyard Road, West Wharf, Karachi, 74000,
Pakistan
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Limited Equity 75.00% 252 Dr Annie Besant Road, Mumbai,, 400030, India
GlaxoSmithKline S.A.E. Ordinary 91.20% Boomerang Office Building - Land No. 46, Zone (J) - 1st District, Town
Center - 5th Tagammoe, New Cairo City, Egypt
GSK (No.1) Scottish Limited Partnership (ix) Partnership – 50 Lothian Road, Festival Square, Edinburgh, Scotland, EH3 9WJ,
United Kingdom
GSK (No. 2) Scottish Limited Partnership (ix) Partnership – 50 Lothian Road, Festival Square, Edinburgh, Scotland, EH3 9WJ,
United Kingdom
Laboratorios ViiV Healthcare, S.L. Ordinary 78.30% Severo Ochoa, 2, Parque Tecnologico de Madrid, Tres Cantos, 28760,
Madrid, Spain
Modern Pharma Trading Company L.L.C. Quotas 91.20% Amoun Street, PO Box 3001, El Salam City, Cairo, 11491, Egypt
PHIVCO-1 LLC LLC Interests 78.30% Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE
19808, United States
PHIVCO-2 LLC LLC Interests 78.30% Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE
19808, United States
Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare LLC (ii) Common Interests 78.30% Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE
19808, United States
SmithKline Beecham-Biomed O.O.O. Participation Interest 97.00% Leningradskiy Prospect 37A, Building 4, Floor 2, Premises XIV, Room 42,
125167, Moscow, Russian Federation
Stiefel Egypt LLC (ii) Quotas 99.00% Amoun Street, PO Box 3001, El Salam City, Cairo, 11491, Egypt
ViiV Healthcare (South Africa) (Proprietary) Limited Ordinary 78.30% Flushing Meadows Building, The Campus, 57 Sloane Street, Bryanston
2021, South Africa
ViiV HealthCare BV Ordinary 78.30% Van Asch van, Wijckstraat 55h, 3811 LP Amersfoort, The Netherlands,
Netherlands
ViiV Healthcare Company Common 78.30% Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE
19808, United States
ViiV Healthcare Finance 1 Limited (In liquidation) Ordinary 78.30% c/o BDO LLP, 5 Temple Square, Temple Street, Liverpool, L2 5RH, United
Kingdom
ViiV Healthcare Finance 2 Limited Ordinary 78.30% 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
ViiV Healthcare Finance Limited Ordinary; 78.30% 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Redeemable Preference
ViiV Healthcare GmbH Ordinary 78.30% Prinzregentenplatz 9, 81675, Munchen, Germany
ViiV Healthcare GmbH Ordinary 78.30% Talstrasse 3-5, 3053 Muenchenbuchsee, Switzerland
312313
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
GSK Annual Report 2022
Other statutory disclosures continued
Group companies continued
Effective %
Name Security Ownership Registered address
Subsidiaries where the effective interest is less than 100% continued
ViiV Healthcare Hong Kong Limited Ordinary 78.30% 23/F Tower 6, The Gateway, 9 Canton Road, Harbour City, Tsimshatsui,
Kowloon, Hong Kong
ViiV Healthcare K.K. Ordinary 78.30% 1-8-1 Akasaka Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan
ViiV Healthcare Limited A Ordinary; 78.30% 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
B Ordinary;
C Ordinary;
D1 Preference;
D2 Ordinary;
Deferred;
E 5% Cumulative Preference
ViiV Healthcare Pty Ltd Ordinary 78.30% 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia Victoria VIC 3155, Australia
ViiV Healthcare Puerto Rico, LLC LLC Interests 78.30% Corporation Service Company Puerto Rico Inc., c/o RVM Professional
Services, LLC, A4 Reparto Mendoza, Humacao, Puerto Rico, 00791
ViiV Healthcare S.r.l. Quotas 78.30% Viale dell’Agricoltura 7, 37135, Verona, Italy
ViiV Healthcare SAS Ordinary 78.30% 23 rue François Jacob, 92500, Rueil-Malmaison, France
ViiV Healthcare sprl Ordinary 78.30% Site Apollo, Avenue Pascal 2-4-6, Wavre, 1300, Belgium
ViiV Healthcare Trading LLC (ii) Participation Interest 78.30% Leningradskiy Prospect 37A, Building 4, Floor 2, Premises XIV, Room 28,
125167, Moscow, Russian Federation
ViiV Healthcare Trading Services UK Limited Ordinary 78.30% 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
ViiV Healthcare UK (No.3) Limited Ordinary 78.30% 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
ViiV Healthcare UK (No.4) Limited Ordinary 78.30% 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
ViiV Healthcare UK (No.5) Limited Ordinary 78.30% 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
ViiV Healthcare UK (No.6) Limited Ordinary 78.30% 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
ViiV Healthcare UK (No.7) Limited Ordinary 78.30% 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
ViiV Healthcare UK Limited Ordinary 78.30% 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
ViiV Healthcare ULC Common 78.30% 3500 855-2nd Street SW, Calgary AB T2P 4J8, Canada
ViiV Healthcare Venture LLC LLC Interest 78.30% Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE
19808, United States
ViiVHIV Healthcare Unipessoal Lda Quota 78.30% Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, 1495-131,
Alges, Portugal
Winster Pharmaceuticals Limited Ordinary 46.42% 2A Association Avenue, Ilupeju Industrial Estate, Lagos, PO Box 3199,
Nigeria
Effective %
Name Security Ownership Registered address
Associates
GlaxoSmithKline Landholding Company, Inc Common 39.93% 23rd Floor, The Finance Centre, 26th Street Corner 9th Avenue,
Bonifacio Global City, Taguig City, 1634, Philippines
Index Ventures Life VI (Jersey) LP Partnership Interest (25%) 25.00% 44 Esplanade, St Helier, Jersey, JE4 9WG, Channel Islands
Kurma Biofund II FCPR Partnership Interest (32.06%) 32.06% 24 rue Royale, 5th Floor, 75008, Paris, France
Longwood Fund I, LP Partnership Interest (35%) 35.00% The Prudential Tower, Suite 1555, 800 Boylston Street, Boston, MA 02199
Medicxi Ventures I LP Partnership Interest (26.19%) 26.19% 44 Esplanade, St Helier, Jersey, JE4 9WG, Channel Islands
Joint Ventures
Chiron Panacea Vaccines Private Limited Equity Shares 50.00% 708/718, 7th Floor, A Wing, Sagar Tech Plaza, Saki Naka, Andheri East,
Mumbai, Maharashtra, 400072, India
Qualivax Pte. Limited Ordinary 50.00% 80 Robinson Road, #02-00, 068898, Singapore
Qura Therapeutics, LLC Units 39.15% Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE
19808, United States
Other significant holdings
Axon Therapies, Inc Common (3.39%); 20.03% 315 west 36th street, New York 10018, USA
Series A Preference (16.10%)
Alpheus Medical, Inc. Series A Preference (13.8%) 21.09% 3510 Hopkins Place, North Oakdale, Minnesota 55128, USA
Series A-1 Preference (7.29%)
Global Farm S.A. A Shares (0%) 20.00% Mendoza 1259, Ciudad Autónoma de Buenos Aires, Argentina
B Shares (0%)
C Shares (100%)
Longwood Fund II, LP Partnership Interest (20.03%) 20.03% The Prudential Tower, Suite 1555, 800 Boylston Street, Boston, MA 02199
Sanderling Ventures VII, L.P. A63 Partnership Interest (25.25%) 25.25% 400 S. El Camino Real, Suite 1200, San Mateo, CA 94402
SR One Capital Fund I-B, LP Partnership Interest (44%) 44.00% Corporation service company, 251 Little Falls Drive, City of Wilmington,
County of New Castle, Delaware 19808GSK Annual Report 2022
Other statutory disclosures continued
Group companies continued
The following UK subsidiaries will take advantage of the audit exemption set out within Section 479A of the Companies Act 2006
for the period ended 31 December 2022. Unless otherwise stated, the undertakings listed below are owned, either directly or
indirectly, by GSK plc.
Effective % Company
Name Security Ownership Registered address Number
UK registered subsidiaries exempted from audit
Burroughs Wellcome International Limited Ordinary 100.00% 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 543757
Domantis Limited Ordinary 100.00% 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 3907643
Edinburgh Pharmaceutical Industries Limited (ii) Ordinary; 100.00% Shewalton Road, Irvine, Ayrshire, KA11 5AP, United Kingdom SC005534
Preference;
Eskaylab Limited Ordinary 100.00% 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 99025
Glaxo Wellcome UK Limited Ordinary 100.00% 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 480080
Glaxo Wellcome International B.V. (iii) Ordinary 100.00% Huis ter Heideweg 62, 3705 LZ, Zeist, Netherlands 30150600
Glaxochem (UK) Unlimited Ordinary; 100.00% 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 4299472
Ordinary B;
Ordinary C
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property (No.3) Ordinary 100.00% 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 11480952
Limited
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property (No.4) Ordinary 100.00% 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 11721880
Limited
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property (No.5) Ordinary 100.00% 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 11959399
Limited
GlaxoSmithKline International Limited Ordinary 100.00% 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 2298366
GSK Capital B.V. (iii) (v) Ordinary 100.00% 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 81761198
GSK GP 1 Limited (iv) A Shares; 99.00% 50 Lothian Road, Festival Square, Edinburgh, Scotland, EH3 9WJ, SC721605
B Shares (0%) United Kingdom
GSK GP 2 Limited (iv) Ordinary 100.00% 50 Lothian Road, Festival Square, Edinburgh, Scotland, EH3 9WJ, SC721606
United Kingdom
GSK LP Limited (iv) Ordinary 100.00% 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 13879411
Montrose Fine Chemical Company Ltd. Ordinary 100.00% Shewalton Road, Irvine, Ayrshire, KA11 5AP, United Kingdom SC190635
PHIVCO UK II Limited Ordinary 78.30% 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 6944229
PHIVCO UK Limited Ordinary 78.30% 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 6944223
Smith Kline & French Laboratories Limited Ordinary 100.00% 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 52207
SmithKline Beecham (Export) Limited Ordinary 100.00% 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 2860752
SmithKline Beecham (H) Limited Non-cumulative 100.00% 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 3296131
Non-redeemable;
Ordinary
SmithKline Beecham (Investments) Limited Ordinary 100.00% 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 302065
SmithKline Beecham Marketing and Technical Ordinary 100.00% 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 494385
Services Limited
SmithKline Beecham Nominees Limited Ordinary 100.00% 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 503868
SmithKline Beecham Overseas Limited Ordinary 100.00% 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 2552828
Stiefel Laboratories (U.K.) Ltd Ordinary 100.00% 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 831160
Tesaro UK Limited Ordinary 100.00% 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 7890847
The Wellcome Foundation Limited Ordinary 100.00% 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 194814
ViiV Healthcare Overseas Limited Ordinary 78.30% 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 7027385
In accordance with Section 479C of the Companies Act 2006, the company will guarantee debts and liabilities of the above UK subsidiary undertakings. As at 31 December 2022
the total sum of these debts and liabilities is £1,266 million (2021 – £876 million)
Key
(i) Directly owned by GSK plc.
(ii) D ormant entity.
(iii) T ax resident in the UK.
(iv) E xempt under Regulation 7 of the Partnership (Accounts) Regulations 2008 from the requirement to deliver to the registrar financial statements of the qualifying
partnership(s) of which the entity is a member in accordance with the Companies Act.
(v) Incorporated in the Netherlands
(vi) Consolidated as a subsidiary in accordance with Section 1162 (4)(a) of the Companies Act 2006 on the grounds of dominant influence.
(vii) Principal business address in Puerto Rico.
(viii) Exempt from the provisions of Regulations 4-6 of the Partnership (Accounts) Regulation 2008, in accordance with the exemptions noted in Regulation 7 of that Regulation.
(ix) GSK GP 1 Limited is a subsidiary undertaking of GSK plc and Berkeley Square Pension Trustee Company Limited and is the general partner of GSK (No.1) Scottish Limited
Partnership and GSK (No.2) Scottish Limited Partnership. GSK GP 1 Limited’s share capital is 99% indirectly owned by GSK plc and 1% owned by Berkeley Square Pension
Trustee Company Limited.
(x) GSK GP 2 Limited is a subsidiary undertaking of GSK plc and is the general partner of GSK (No.3) Scottish Limited Partnership. GSK GP 2 Limited’s share capital is 100%
indirectly owned by GSK plc.
314315
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
GSK Annual Report 2022
Glossary of terms
Terms used in the Annual Report US equivalent or brief description
Accelerated capital allowances Tax allowance in excess of depreciation arising from the purchase of fixed assets that delay
the charging and payment of tax. The equivalent of tax depreciation.
American Depositary Receipt (ADR) Receipt evidencing title to an ADS. Each GSK ADR represents two Ordinary Shares.
American Depositary Shares (ADS) Listed on the New York Stock Exchange; represents two Ordinary Shares.
Basic earnings per share Basic income per share.
Called up share capital Ordinary Shares, issued and fully paid.
CER growth Growth at constant exchange rates.
The company GSK plc.
Currency swap An exchange of two currencies, coupled with a subsequent re-exchange of those
currencies,
at agreed exchange rates and dates.
Defined benefit plan Pension plan with specific employee benefits, often called ‘final salary scheme’.
Defined contribution plan Pension plan with specific contributions and a level of pension dependent upon the growth
of the pension fund.
Derivative financial instrument A financial instrument that derives its value from the price or rate of some underlying item.
Diluted earnings per share Diluted income per share.
Employee Share Ownership Plan Trusts Trusts established by the Group to satisfy share-based employee incentive plans.
Equity Shareholders’ funds Shareholders’ equity.
Finance lease Capital lease.
Freehold Ownership with absolute rights in perpetuity.
The Group GSK plc and its subsidiary undertakings.
GSK GSK plc and its subsidiary undertakings.
Hedging The reduction of risk, normally in relation to foreign currency or interest rate movements,
by making off-setting commitments.
Intangible fixed assets Assets without physical substance, such as computer software, brands, licences, patents,
know-how and marketing rights purchased from outside parties.
Ordinary share A fully paid up ordinary share in the capital of the company.
Profit Income.
Profit attributable to shareholders Net income.
Share capital Ordinary Shares, capital stock or common stock issued and fully paid.
Share option Stock option.
Share premium account Additional paid-up capital or paid-in surplus (not distributable).
Shares in issue The number of shares outstanding.
Subsidiary An entity in which GSK exercises control.
Treasury share Treasury stock.
Turnover Revenue.
UK Corporate Governance Code As required by the UK Listing Authority, the company has disclosed in the Annual Report
how it has applied the best practice corporate governance provisions of the Financial
Reporting Council’s UK Corporate Governance Code.GSK Annual Report 2022
Shareholder information continued
Index
2022 Remuneration policy summary 133 Key performance indicators 02
Access 43 Legal proceedings 265
Accounting principles and policies 186 Major restructuring costs 201
Acquisitions and disposals 237 Movements in equity 233
Adjustments reconciling Total profit after tax to operating Net debt 218
cash flows 242 New accounting requirements 194
Annual General Meeting 2023 299 Nominations Committee Report 120
Approach to tax 92 Non-controlling interests 235
Assets held for sale 216 Non-controlling interests in ViiV Healthcare 71
Associates and joint ventures 203 Non-Executive Directors’ fees 152
Audit & Risk Committee Report 124 Non-financial information statement 63
Business model 08 Notes to the financial statements 186
Cash and cash equivalents 216 Operating profit 199
Cash generation and conversion 86 Other intangible assets 211
CEO’s statement 06 Other investments 214
Chair’s statement 04 Other non-current assets 215
Chair’s Governance statement 103 Other non-current liabilities 232
Chair’s Remuneration annual statement 133 Other operating income/(expense) 198
Climate-related financial disclosure 55 Other provisions 229
Commitments 232 Our culture 10
Consolidated balance sheet 183 Our external environment 12
Consolidated cash flow statement 185 Our long-term priorities 09
Consolidated income statement 182 Pensions and other post-employment benefits 220
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 184 Performance 02
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 182 Pharmaceutical products, competition and
Contingent consideration liabilities 231 intellectual property 281
Contingent liabilities 232 Pipeline 278
Corporate governance 96 Post balance sheet events 267
Corporate Responsibility Committee Report 117 Presentation of the financial statements 269
Critical accounting judgements and key sources Principal Group companies 264
of estimation uncertainty 192 Principal risks and uncertainties 285
Critical accounting policies 94 Property, plant and equipment 208
Data and engagement 49 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt 243
Demerger of Consumer Healthcare business 238 Registrar 302
Directors and senior management 156 Related party transactions 236
Directors’ interests in shares 154 Reliable supply 17
Directors’ report 130 Remuneration governance 150
Directors’ statement of responsibilities 166 Remuneration report 132
Dividends 207 Reporting framework 69
Donations to political organisations and Responsible business 42
political expenditure 306 Right of use assets 209
Earnings per share 207 Risk management 51
Employee costs 200 Science and technology 16
Employee share schemes 262 Science Committee report 118
Environment 45 Section 172 statement 112
Ethical standards 48 Share capital and control 296
Exchange rates 194 Share capital and share premium account 233
Finance expense 202 Share Consolidation 233
Finance income 202 Shareholder information 296
Financial calendar 2023 299 Shareholder services and contacts 302
Financial instruments and related disclosures 245 Specialty Medicines 33,73
Financial performance 68 Stakeholder engagement 112
Financial position and resources 87 Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures 55
Financial statements of GSK plc, prepared Taxation 204
under UK GAAP 268 Tax information for shareholders 299
General Medicines 38,75 Three-year selected financial data 276
Glossary of terms 215 The Board 97
Goodwill 210 Trade and other payables 217
Group companies 307 Trade and other receivables 215
Group financial review 65 Treasury policies 93
GSK Leadership Team 101 Trust 09
Independent Auditor’s report 168 Turnover and segment information 195
Innovation 09 US law and regulation 304
Inventories 215 Vaccines 29,74
Investments in associates and joint ventures 213 Vaccine products, competition and intellectual property 284
Investor relations 303 Viability statement 64
316About GSK
GlaxoSmithKline plc was incorporated as an English Brand names appearing in italics throughout
this report are trade marks either owned by
public limited company on 6 December 1999. We were and/or licensed to GSK or associated companies.
All other trade marks are the property of their
formed by a merger between Glaxo Wellcome plc respective owners.
and SmithKline Beecham plc. GSK acquired these
Printed sustainably in the UK by Pureprint,
two English companies on 27 December 2000 as part a CarbonNeutral® company with FSC®
chain of custody and an ISO 14001 certified
of the merger arrangements. Effective 15 May 2022 environmental management system recycling
over 99% of all dry waste.
GlaxoSmithKline plc changed its name to GSK plc.
Printed on Arena ECO 50 EW Smooth, a wood
On 18 July 2022, GSK plc, separated its Consumer free uncoated paper, ECF with FSC certification
and made from 50% recycled fibre.
Healthcare business from the GSK Group to form
Haleon, an independent listed company.
Our shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange
and the New York Stock Exchange.
Download PDFs:
www.gsk.com
– Annual Report 2022
– Form 20-F
– ESG Performance Report 2022
Cautionary statement regarding impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. Any forward- changes in the healthcare environment or unexpected
forward-looking statements looking statements made by or on behalf of the Group significant changes in pricing as a result of government
The Group’s reports filed with or furnished to the US speak only as of the date they are made and are based or competitor action. The 2023 guidance factors in all
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including upon the knowledge and information available to the divestments and product exits announced to date.
this document, and any other written information Directors on the date of this Annual Report. The Group’s guidance assumes successful delivery of
released, or oral statements made, to the public in the A number of non-IFRS measures are used to report the Group’s integration and restructuring plans.
future by or on behalf of the Group, may contain the performance of our business. These measures are Material costs for investment in new product launches
forward-looking statements. Forward-looking defined on pages 69 to 70 and a reconciliation of and R&D have been factored into the expectations
statements give the Group’s current expectations or Adjusted results to Total results is set out on pages given. Given the potential development options in the
forecasts of future events. An investor can identify 81 to 85. Group’s pipeline, the outlook may be affected by
these statements by the fact that they do not relate The information in this document does not constitute additional data-driven R&D investment decisions. The
strictly to historical or current facts. They use words an offer to sell or an invitation to buy shares in GSK plc guidance is given on a constant currency basis.
such as ‘anticipate’, ‘estimate’, ‘expect’, ‘intend’, ‘will’, or an invitation or inducement to engage in any other All outlooks, ambitions and expectations should be
‘project’, ‘plan’, ‘believe’, ‘target’ and other words and investment activities. Past performance cannot be read together with pages 5-7 of the Stock Exchange
terms of similar meaning in connection with any relied upon as a guide to future performance. Nothing announcement relating to an update to investors
discussion of future operating or financial performance. in this Annual Report should be construed as a profit dated 23 June 2021, paragraph 19 of Part 7 of the
In particular, these include statements relating to forecast. Circular to shareholders relating to the demerger of
future actions, prospective products or product Haleon dated 1 June 2022 and the Guidance,
approvals, future performance or results of current and Assumptions related to 2023 guidance assumptions and cautionary statements in the Group’s
anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, the In outlining the guidance for 2023, the Group has made Q4 2022 earnings release.
outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings, certain assumptions about the healthcare sector, the
dividend payments and financial results. Other than in different markets in which the Group operates and the Notice regarding limitations on Director Liability under
accordance with its legal or regulatory obligations delivery of revenues and financial benefits from its English Law
(including under the Market Abuse Regulations, the UK current portfolio, pipeline and restructuring Under the UK Companies Act 2006, a safe harbour
Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency programmes. Due to the phasing of quarterly results in limits the liability of Directors in respect of statements in
Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority), the Group 2022 and the resulting comparators, GSK expects and omissions from the Directors’ Report (for which see
undertakes no obligation to update any forward- turnover and Adjusted operating profit growth to be page 117), the Strategic report and the Remuneration
looking statements, whether as a result of new slightly lower in the first half of 2023 including a report. Under English law the Directors would be liable
information, future events or otherwise. The reader challenging comparator in Q1 2022 and somewhat to the company, but not to any third party, if one or
should, however, consult any additional disclosures that higher in the second half, relative to full-year more of these reports contained errors as a result of
the Group may make in any documents which it expectations. Despite the recovery of healthcare recklessness or knowing misstatement or dishonest
publishes and/or files with the SEC. All readers, systems, uncertain economic conditions prevail across concealment of a material fact, but would otherwise
wherever located, should take note of these disclosures. many markets in which GSK operates and we continue not be liable. Pages 97, 131, 166 to 167, and 285 to 314
Accordingly, no assurance can be given that any to expect to see variability in performance between inclusive comprise the Directors’ Report, pages 1 to 95
particular expectation will be met and investors are quarters. inclusive comprise the Strategic report and pages 133
cautioned not to place undue reliance on the We expect sales of Specialty Medicines to increase mid to 164 inclusive comprise the Remuneration report,
forward-looking statements. to high single-digit per cent, sales of Vaccines to each of which have been drawn up and presented in
Forward-looking statements are subject to increase mid-teens per cent and sales of General accordance with and in reliance upon English company
assumptions, inherent risks and uncertainties, many of Medicines to decrease slightly. law and the liabilities of the Directors in connection with
these reports shall be subject to the limitations and
which relate to factors that are beyond the Group’s These planning assumptions as well as operating profit restrictions provided by such law.
control or precise estimate. The Group cautions guidance and dividend expectations assume no
investors that a number of important factors, including material interruptions to supply of the Group’s Website
those in this document, could cause actual results to products, no material mergers, acquisitions or GSK’s website www.gsk.com gives additional
differ materially from those expressed or implied in any disposals, no material litigation or investigation costs information on the Group. Notwithstanding the
forward-looking statement. for the Company (save for those that are already references we make in this Annual Report to GSK’s
Such factors include, but are not limited to, those recognised or for which provisions have been made) website, none of the information made available on the
discussed under ‘Principal risks and uncertainties’ on and no change in the Group’s shareholdings in ViiV website constitutes part of this Annual Report or shall
pages 285 to 295 of this Annual Report and any Healthcare. The assumptions also assume no material be deemed to be incorporated by reference herein.
317We unite science, technology
and talent to get ahead
of disease together.
Head Office and Registered Office
GSK plc
980 Great West Road
Brentford, Middlesex TW8 9GS
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)20 8047 5000
Registered number: 3888792