Do more,
feel better,
live longer
Annual Report for shareholders
2011How to navigate To help you find your way – C licking any of the icon
around this around, this report has a buttons will do as marked
report navigation strip on the top to the right of this panel.
right hand of each page.
– C licking any link in the
– C licking on the section contents below takes you
bars, takes you to the start to that specific page.
of that section.
Home Search Print Previous Next Previous
page page view
Contents
Notice regarding limitations on
Director Liability under English Law
Under the UK Companies Act 2006, a safe
harbour limits the liability of Directors in respect
of statements in and omissions from the Report What we do 2 Directors’ statement of responsibilities 134
of the Directors contained on pages 1–133 Where we do it 3 Independent Auditors’ report 135
which includes the Business review on pages
How we create value 4 Financial statements 136
1 to 77. Under English law the Directors would
be liable to the company, but not to any third How we deliver 6 Notes to the financial statements 141
party, if the Report of the Directors contains How we performed 8 Financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc
errors as a result of recklessness or knowing prepared under UK GAAP 216
misstatement or dishonest concealment of a
material fact, but would not otherwise be liable. + +
Report of the Directors
Pages 1–133 inclusive comprise the Report
of the Directors that has been drawn up and
presented in accordance with and in reliance
upon English company law and the liabilities
of the Directors in connection with that report
shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions Chairman’s statement 10 Quarterly trend 222
provided by such law. Chief Executive’s review 11 Five year record 232
Our marketplace 13 Product development pipeline 235
Website
GlaxoSmithKline’s website www.gsk.com Our strategy for growth Products, competition and intellectual property 239
gives additional information on the Group. Grow a diversified business 16 Share price and dividends 242
Notwithstanding the references we make in
Deliver more products of value 28 Annual General Meeting 2012 243
this Annual Report to GlaxoSmithKline’s website,
none of the information made available on the Simplify the operating model 38 Investor relations and registrars 244
website constitutes part of this Annual Report Our financial architecture 42 Taxation information for shareholders 245
or shall be deemed to be incorporated by
Responsible business 44 Glossary of terms 247
reference herein.
Index 248
Cautionary statement regarding
+ +
forward-looking statements
The Group’s reports filed with or furnished to
the US Securities and Exchange Commission
(SEC), including this document and written
information released, or oral statements made,
to the public in the future by or on behalf of the
Group, may contain forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements give the Group’s
Financial review 51
current expectations or forecasts of future
events. An investor can identify these statements Financial position and resources 60
by the fact that they do not relate strictly to Financial review 2010 67
historical or current facts. They use words such
Risk factors 72
as ‘anticipate’, ‘estimate’, ‘expect’, ‘intend’,
‘will’, ‘project’, ‘plan’, ‘believe’ and other words +
and terms of similar meaning in connection
with any discussion of future operating or
financial performance. In particular, these Front cover (clockwise from top)
include statements relating to future actions, Our PHASE programme educates groups
prospective products or product approvals, about the importance of handwashing in
reducing the spread of diseases. (Chris Martin)
future performance or results of current and
anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, A Diskus inhaler, one of the devices that
the outcome of contingencies such as legal Our Board 78 we have developed to deliver inhaled
proceedings, and financial results. The Group medicines directly to the respiratory system.
undertakes no obligation to update any forward- Our Corporate Executive Team 80 (Inpress Photography)
looking statements, whether as a result of new Governance and policy 84
Early research into new biopharmaceuticals,
information, future events or otherwise. Share capital and control 95 including treatments based on antibodies,
Committee reports 97 takes place at our large R&D centre in
Forward-looking statements involve inherent Stevenage, in the UK. (George Brooks)
risks and uncertainties. The Group cautions US law and regulation 104
investors that a number of important factors, Total remuneration for 2011 108
including those in this document, could cause Remuneration policy for 2012 110 Page 1
actual results to differ materially from those More than 12,500 people work
contained in any forward-looking statement. Directors’ emoluments and total in R&D in the search for new medicines,
Such factors include, but are not limited to, remuneration 124 vaccines and consumer healthcare products.
those discussed under ‘Risk factors’ on pages (Pierre Charbonneau)
Directors and Senior Management 133
72–77 of this Annual Report. Testing for signs of malaria in children in
Tanzania. (Tom Whipps)
A number of adjusted measures are used +
to report the performance of our business. Sensodyne Repair & Protect has boosted
performance in our Consumer Healthcare
These measures are defined on page 51.
business. (Andy Robinson, Photofarm)01 GSK Annual Report 2011
We are a science-led global
healthcare company
We make innovative medicines, vaccines and
consumer healthcare products that are used by
millions of people around the world, allowing
them to do more, feel better and live longer.
The products we develop and manufacture and
how we do this contributes directly to the health of
patients and consumers, and indirectly to the wider
well-being of the economy and society.
We have been fundamentally changing in recent
years to create a more balanced business to
address market challenges and deliver sustainable
performance and returns for shareholders. We are
committed to generating that performance in a
responsible way.
+ visit our website: www.gsk.com02 GSK Annual Report 2011
Overview
What we do
We are a science-led global healthcare company that researches
and develops a broad range of innovative products
Our business
We have three primary areas of business: Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and Consumer £27.4bn
Healthcare. Our objective is to deliver sustainable growth across this portfolio. Group turnover
In 2011, our total turnover was £27.4 billion.
Pharmaceuticals Vaccines Consumer Healthcare
£18.7bn 68% £3.5bn 13% £5.2bn 19%
Turnover of Group Turnover of Group Turnover of Group
Our Pharmaceuticals business develops Our Vaccines business is one of We develop and market a range of
and makes available medicines to the largest in the world, producing consumer health products based on
treat a broad range of serious and paediatric and adult vaccines against scientific innovation. We have leading
chronic diseases. Our portfolio is made a range of infectious diseases. In 2011, positions in three main categories:
up of established brands and newer we distributed 1.1 billion doses to 173 Over-the-counter (OTC) medicines, Oral
innovative patent-protected medicines. countries, of which over 80% were healthcare and Nutritional healthcare.
supplied to developing countries. Our portfolio includes a number of
well-known brands such as Panadol,
Sensodyne, Lucozade and Horlicks.
Sales by therapy area £m Sales by vaccine £m Sales by category £m
Respiratory 7,298 Boostrix 192 OTC 2,453
Anti-virals 807 Cervarix 506 Oral healthcare 1,717
Central nervous system 1,721 Fluarix, FluLaval 230 Nutritional healthcare 1,025
Cardiovascular and urogenital 2,740 Flu pandemic 18
Metabolic 362 Hepatitis 688
Anti-bacterials 1,390 Infanrix, Pediarix 690
Oncology and emesis 693 Rotarix 300
Dermatology 1,087 Synflorix 350
ViiV Healthcare (HIV) 1,569 Other 523
Other 1,028
R&D
Our business is sustained through investment in R&D. £4.0bn R&D expenditure allocation in 2011
In 2011 we spent £3.9 billion before major restructuring*,
£4.0 billion in total, in our search to develop new total R&D expenditure 3 41
medicines, vaccines and innovative consumer products. in 2011
We allocate our R&D investment based on our view of c.30 2
the scientific opportunities in different disease areas, our
assets in late
ability to provide significant improvements on existing
stage pipeline
treatments and the level of returns we can generate.
We also have dedicated research programmes for diseases
12%
£m
that affect the developing world. We are one of the few
estimated internal 1 Pharmaceuticals 3,160
healthcare companies researching both new vaccines 2 Vaccines 599
rate of return from
and new medicines for all three of the World Health 3 Consumer Healthcare 153
R&D expenditure
Organization’s priority diseases: HIV/AIDS, malaria 4 Major restructuring 97
and tuberculosis.
30 – 35 +
* T he calculation of results before major restructuring is described in Note 1 to the financial statements, ‘Presentation of the financial statements’ and presented in the
Consolidated income statement on pages 136 and 137.03 GSK Annual Report 2011
Where we do it
Our geographic presence covers more than
100 countries
Our global reach
Since 2008, we have been re-shaping our business to capitalise on the higher growth 97,389
potential of markets outside Europe and the USA. These territories now account for Employees
38% of our total sales. At the same time, we have restructured our developed markets
Employees by region
business to reflect the challenging commercial environment in those markets.
We have a significant global manufacturing and R&D presence with a network of 74 5 6 1
manufacturing sites and large R&D centres in the UK, USA, Spain, Belgium and China. 4
2
3
No.
1 USA 16,707
2 Europe 38,696
3 Emerging Markets 29,466
4 Asia Pacific 7,039
5 Japan 3,573
6 Other 1,908
+ 236
Turnover by region
6 1
5
4
2
3
£bn
1 USA 8.7
2 Europe 8.3
3 Emerging Markets 5.3
4 Asia Pacific 1.8
5 Japan 2.3
6 Other 1.0
+ 234
How we’re structured
Our commercial businesses are structured around regional Turnover by segment
units or areas of focus.
£bn
For Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines, we operate in geographical US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 7.0
Europe Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 5.8
segments that combine these two businesses.
Emerging Markets Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 3.7
Our Consumer Healthcare business functions as a global
Japan Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 2.1
unit, as does ViiV Healthcare, the specialist HIV company we Asia Pacific Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 1.2
founded with Pfizer in 2009. ViiV Healthcare 1.6
Other trading 0.8
Other trading turnover includes Canada, Puerto Rico, central
Consumer Healthcare 5.2
vaccine tender sales and contract manufacturing sales.
149 +04 GSK Annual Report 2011
Overview
How we
create value
Our business model relies on innovation, intellectual property
protection and brand allegiance to deliver sustainable growth
Our business model
New medicines and healthcare products A critical element of our business model is Vulnerability to generic competition
are needed by people across the globe the protection of the intellectual property is less marked for vaccines and
to address the many illnesses such as we create in developing new treatments biopharmaceuticals, including enzymes
cancer, diabetes and heart disease that and technologies. This protection allows and monoclonal antibodies. These large
are still not well-controlled or treated. us to generate income for a set period molecules are created through different
At the same time, scientific research of time, enabling us to recoup our R&D development and manufacturing
is continuously uncovering new costs and invest in further research. processes to that of small molecules,
understandings about disease processes and these products are typically more
Patent protection for prescription
and technologies. difficult and expensive to manufacture.
medicines – as for other inventions
These two elements present us with the – is around 20 years in most Western The development of generic versions
opportunity to investigate and develop countries. However, by the time a new of vaccines and biopharmaceuticals
new and improved treatments. We medicine is approved for use in patients, is also subject to different regulatory
create value by applying science and a significant proportion of this exclusivity requirements, such as the requirement
technology to discover, develop, produce period will have passed. Patents on to carry out trials in humans. This incurs
and distribute medicines, vaccines and our products also do not prevent the an additional expense not required in the
consumer healthcare products. protection being challenged before generic manufacture of small molecules,
they expire. and therefore places a further barrier to
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines
generic competition.
Once patent protection expires, a
The process of discovering and
medicine is often subject to competition Consumer Healthcare
developing new medicines and vaccines
from generic manufacturers who do
is long and expensive and requires Intellectual property protection is not the
not have the same R&D overheads
innovation and creativity. Industry same for consumer healthcare products.
and so are able to offer their products
development times are typically 10–15 Our Consumer Healthcare business relies
at considerably lower prices. Declines
years for new medicines and vaccines, on product innovation, brand loyalty and
in sales following patent expirations
with costs of up to £1 billion for each trademark protection to be competitive
are particularly rapid in the USA and
approved product. The R&D process often and create value. Development
Europe. Generic pressures are different in
involves thousands of patients in trials timelines for new consumer healthcare
emerging markets, where brand allegiance
to investigate the safety and efficacy of products are significantly shorter than
has a greater influence. In these markets,
potential new treatments. for pharmaceuticals and vaccines and
a known heritage or brand for existing
the pace of innovation is rapid. The
medicines – whether on-patent or not –
application of science and consumer
is valued and provides an opportunity
insights are key to driving successful
to withstand generic competition.
product innovation for consumer brands.
Pharmaceutical discovery and development process
Research and Development Regulatory Market
discovery and testing review after
Market under patent protection
25,000 25 1 patent
compounds compounds compound expiry
10-15 years 5-10 years indefinite
Final patent application Product approval Patent expiry05 GSK Annual Report 2011
Why we are different
We have fundamentally changed our To do this, we have broken up the Commitment to access
business and our culture to help us grow traditional hierarchical pharmaceutical
We are actively seeking new ways of
and improve our performance. Our R&D business model, creating instead
delivering healthcare and making our
approach is now one of openness to smaller units to encourage greater
products more available and affordable
challenge and innovation. This affects entrepreneurialism and accountability
to people who need them wherever they
the way we do business, the way we work for our scientists.
live. We do this not only because society
with external groups and our relationship
We are striving to develop new expects us to and it is the right thing
with our employees. For our employees,
partnerships and approaches, adopting to do, but also because it is good for
the positive impact their contribution
a different mindset, that is more our business.
makes to people’s lives is one of their
innovative, open-minded, flexible,
key motivators to working at GSK. In our effort to expand access to our
and consultative. We value the new
products, we have led the industry in
Breadth of business and different perspectives that other
adopting a flexible approach to pricing
groups can bring to our thinking. We
We have a broad-based and balanced of our medicines and vaccines, based
are open to working with research
business across pharmaceuticals, vaccines on a country’s wealth and ability to pay.
charities, academia, companies and non-
and consumer healthcare products. Our This has resulted in significant reductions
governmental organisations. We are also
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines businesses in price and increases in demand for
increasing consultation with patients and
include both established brands and new our products in emerging economies,
payers to ensure the medicines we are
innovative patent-protected medicines. representing a good outcome for patients,
developing provide improvements that
We have many category-leading brands governments and our shareholders. In
healthcare systems will value and reward.
in our Consumer Healthcare business. Western markets, we have developed
We are committed to researching new and new reimbursement approaches for our
This diverse portfolio provides us with a
better treatments for diseases that impact medicines, where we agree risk-sharing
range of products to drive our business
the developing world. Our research arrangements with payers.
in innovation-driven markets such as
centre in Spain is dedicated to this
the USA and Japan. It also provides us We have established a special business
discovery work and we are one of the few
with good opportunities for growth unit that is responsible for increasing
companies researching treatments and
in emerging markets, where rapidly access to our products in the least
vaccines for malaria, TB and HIV. In 2011,
developing economies are expanding developed countries in the world. The
we reported positive initial results for our
the number of people with access to price of our patented medicines in this
malaria vaccine which if successful, would
healthcare treatments. region is kept at no more than 25% of our
be the world’s first vaccine against this
developed world prices and we re-invest a
The changes we have made to the shape deadly disease. We are being more flexible
fifth of the profits we make from sales in
of our business are intended to provide with our intellectual property and know-
these territories back into local healthcare
broadly-sourced sales growth and provide how in areas of research such as diseases
infrastructure projects.
greater resilience in the face of market of the developing world, with the aim
challenges, such as the loss of patent of stimulating progress in the search for We work with many agencies to
protection or government austerity new treatments. distribute our vaccines to the people
measures. in these countries at the lowest price we
In our commercial organisation, we have
can. Of the 1.1 billion vaccine doses we
New ways of working pioneered new sales models to align with
delivered in 2011, more than 80% were
the changing market and expectations
We have fundamentally changed our supplied to protect people in developing
of our customers. For example, we have
R&D organisation to deliver a large and countries. We also have significant
introduced a new remuneration system
diverse late-stage pipeline and a discovery medicine donation programmes targeted
for our US sales representatives based
organisation structure that can sustain at disease elimination.
on the service they deliver to healthcare
a flow of innovative new medicines
professionals rather than on individual
and vaccines.
sales targets.06 GSK Annual Report 2011
Overview
How we deliver
Our strategy is designed to deliver sustainable growth, reduce risk and
improve long-term financial performance and returns to shareholders
Our strategic priorities
1 2 3
Grow Deliver Simplify
a diversified more products the operating
global business of value model
+ 16 – 27 + 28 – 37 + 38 – 41
We are creating a more balanced We have changed our R&D organisation As we change the shape of our business,
business and product portfolio capable of so that it is better able to sustain an we are transforming our operating
delivering sustainable sales growth. This industry-leading pipeline of products model to reduce complexity and make
is centred on our three business areas of that offer valuable improvements in it more efficient. Over the past four
Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and Consumer treatment for patients and healthcare years we have implemented a global
Healthcare. As well as accessing growth providers. restructuring programme which has
markets, we are creating a business that delivered significant savings.
We have increased the level of
is less vulnerable to market volatility,
externalisation of our research, allowing At the same time our manufacturing
including generic pressures.
us to access new areas of science and to business unit has been relentlessly
Over the past three years, we have share the risk of development with our focused on streamlining production
substantially increased our investment partners. We have also made decisions processes to improve efficiency and
in our Emerging Markets and Japanese earlier around pipeline progressions, so eliminate waste.
operations as well as in our global that only those medicines which are
We have reorganised our global support
Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare significantly differentiated from existing
functions such as facilities real estate, IT
businesses. therapies are progressed. We have
and procurement into one centralised
broken up the traditional hierarchical
We are also maximising the promotion group. This will allow us to become more
business model and created smaller,
and distribution synergies between streamlined and provide significant
more agile groups of scientists who
our Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and economies of scale.
are more accountable for delivering
Consumer Healthcare businesses in
their projects.
rapidly growing emerging economies.
£27.4bn 38% 3 c.30 £2.2bn 210 days
Group turnover proportion of new product assets in late annual benefits working capital
sales outside approvals stage pipeline from restructuring cycle down from
USA and Europe programme 221 in 2010
Our financial architecture
In 2011 we established a new financial architecture. This aligns In addition, we have improved our financial reporting to align
our planning, execution and performance measurement in order it more closely with our architecture. We are providing more
to maximise financial performance and returns to shareholders. data and insights into the progress we are making in each of
It is designed to drive improvements in operating margin, greater our businesses and regions and on our progress against the key
financial efficiency and enhanced cash conversion from the sales drivers of operational and financial efficiency.
growth we are focused on delivering. This should lead to stronger
Starting in 2012 we are transitioning our reporting to a core
growth in earnings per share and better free cash generation.
basis, enabling greater visibility of the underlying performance
This expected cash flow is available for dividends, reinvestment of the business.
in the business or share buy-backs depending on where returns
are most attractive. 42 – 43 +07 GSK Annual Report 2011
Our underlying operating principles
Strong governance Operating responsibly
Our commitment to responsible, values-based business We believe that only by being a responsible business can we
underlies everything we do. Our values are applied across grow and create value for our shareholders and for society in
the Group. These values are to operate with transparency, the long term. We think about our responsibilities in four areas:
demonstrate respect for people, act with integrity and remain helping improve people’s health and well-being wherever they
patient-focused. We have strong policy and compliance live or whatever their ability to pay; working to support the
programmes and expect the same standards of our suppliers, development of our people as well as communities around
contractors and business partners. Our Chairman and Board of the world; behaving in an open and honest manner in all that
Directors provide leadership on corporate governance, which we do, and growing our business while protecting the natural
is fundamental to sound decision making and supports our resources we all need for the future.
executive management in implementing our strategy. Our
We continue to change the way we do business so we can be
Risk Oversight and Compliance Council (ROCC) oversees
successful and sustainable in the longer term.
the management of significant business risks including 44 – 50 +
reputational and non-financial risks. It does this in compliance
with laws and regulations as well as in coordination with
our other governance bodies and in the spirit of our values
Collaborative approach
and standards. Our Audit & Assurance group supports the
ROCC and the Board’s Audit & Risk Committee, providing an Our business and our products touch many different groups,
independent view of how significant risks are being managed over and above the people who take our medicines and
across the organisation. products. We aim to work with these groups in a transparent
82 – 105 + and collaborative manner to allow us to succeed with our
partners. That approach applies to our interactions with payers,
regulators and the healthcare professionals we work with,
as well as our suppliers and business partners. Equally we seek
to be a valuable participant in scientific research, through
our collaborations with researchers and by sharing significant
scientific developments and data through the appropriate
routes. We actively seek to work in partnership with public
bodies and non-governmental organisations to help progress
health issues that present wider societal challenges, such as
treatments for neglected tropical diseases and the prevention
of childhood illnesses in the least developed countries.
44 – 50 +08 GSK Annual Report 2011
Overview
How we
performed
We measure our performance against a number of key indicators
and the remuneration of our executives is based on many of these
Group turnover Operating profit and margin before major restructuring*+
£27.4bn £7.9bn
Reported Underlying*
growth growth Growth Margin
£bn CER %# CER %# £bn CER %# %
2011 27.4 (3) 4 2011 7.9 (7) 29.0
2010 28.4 (1) 4 2010 8.6 (5) 30.4
2009 28.4 3 n/a 2009 8.7 (8) 30.7
Why it’s important How we performed Why it’s important How we performed
A key objective of our strategy is to While reported turnover fell by 3% A second key objective is to improve Operating profit excluding legal
deliver sustainable broadly-sourced in the year, over the past two years operating leverage in order to costs and other operating income
sales growth. we have delivered average annual deliver stronger operating profit has been significantly impacted this
underlying turnover growth of 4%. growth. The margin indicates how year by the roll-off of pandemic
Underlying turnover growth adjusts costs are being managed. We have products, Avandia and Valtrex.
for the impact of the roll-off of included operating profit as a key
sales of pandemic products, measure for 2011.
Avandia and Valtrex.
* e xcluding legal costs of £157 million (2010 – £4,001 million, 2009 – £591 million) and
* The calculation of underlying turnover is described on page 27. other operating income of £610 million (2010 – £493 million, 2009 – £1,135 million).
Earnings per share before major restructuring+ Free cash flow*
114.1 £4.1bn
p
Growth Growth
pence CER %# £bn £%
2011 114.1 >100 2011 4.1 (8)
2010 53.9 (59) 2010 4.5 (15)
2009 121.2 2 2009 5.3 12
Why it’s important How we performed Why it’s important How we performed
EPS shows the portion of our profit In 2011, EPS grew significantly This measure shows the cash we Free cash flow in 2011 was
allocated to each share. It is a key compared with 2010, primarily generate that is available to return impacted by the loss of sales of
indicator of our performance and as a result of lower legal charges. to shareholders or reinvest in the pandemic products, Avandia
the returns we are generating. business, as well as our effectiveness and Valtrex and the associated
in converting our earnings to cash receivables and legal settlements
through effective working capital of £1,466 million (2010 – £2,047
control and investment discipline. million, 2009 – £254 million).
* The calculation of free cash flow is described on page 51 and a reconciliation
is provided on page 64.
+ T he calculation of results before major restructuring is described in Note 1 to the financial statements, ‘Presentation of the financial statements’.
# The calculation of CER growth is described on page 51.09 GSK Annual Report 2011
Turnover in our major growth areas New Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines product performance
£14.8bn £2.5bn
% of Growth % of
£bn turnover £bn CER %# turnover
2011 14.8 54 2011 2.5 47 11
2010 15.1 53 2010 1.7 36 7
2009 13.5 47 2009 1.3 55 5
Why it’s important How we performed Why it’s important How we performed
This measure focuses on our major Turnover in these business areas This measure shows the delivery of 2011 sales totalling £2.5
growth areas: Vaccines, Consumer in 2011 totalled £14.8 billion, sales from newly launched products billion represented 11% of
Healthcare, Emerging Markets, Asia representing 54% of Group and creates incentives for improved Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines
Pacific and Japan and Dermatology. turnover. The decrease compared R&D performance. New products turnover and included
This performance highlights the with 2010 reflects the loss of are defined as products launched in Cervarix (£506 million),
progress we are making in delivering Avandia, Valtrex and flu the last five years. We have included Synflorix (£350 million) and
our strategy to create broad-based pandemic sales. this as a key measure for 2011. Rotarix (£300 million).
sales growth that is more resilient
to volatility.
Cash returned to shareholders Total shareholder return
£5.6bn 150
Growth
£bn £%
2011 (Dividends 3.4) (Buy-backs 2.2) 5.6 75 125
2010 3.2 7
2009 3.0 3
100
Why it’s important How we performed
We continue to focus on delivering In 2011, we paid dividends of
dividend growth and returning free £3.4 billion and spent £2.2 billion
cash flow to shareholders through on repurchasing shares. 75
share buy-backs where this offers 31/12/06 31/12/07 31/12/08 31/12/09 31/12/ 10 3 1/12/1 1
a more attractive return than
GlaxoSmithKline Total Return
alternative investments.
GlaxoSmithKline Pharma Peers Return Index*
FTSE 100 Total Return Index
* This index includes Abbott Laboratories, AstraZeneca, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Eli Lilly,
Johnson & Johnson, Merck, Novartis, Pfizer, Roche Holdings and Sanofi.10 GSK Annual Report 2011
Strategic review
Chairman’s
statement
On behalf of the Board, Our management team has driven Late in 2011 we also received very
fundamental change to the business promising first data for our malaria
I am very pleased to
over the last 3½ years to improve vaccine which, if proved successful, has
report that GSK has made growth prospects, reduce risk and the potential to prevent the deaths of
deliver enhanced financial performance. millions of African children from this
considerable progress There is now demonstrable evidence terrible disease.
that this strategy is starting to deliver
in 2011, despite the Maintaining good corporate governance
and positively differentiate GSK’s outlook
is a key priority and I am pleased to
challenging economic from other companies in the sector.
introduce our Corporate Governance
I would particularly like to recognise
environment. report on page 82, which sets out
here Sir Andrew’s vision and leadership
our approach to the regulations and
in identifying early on the scale of change
guidelines underpinning our decision
that was needed and in successfully
making. We are very mindful of the
starting to execute that change.
current environment around executive
Ultimately the aim of our strategy is to remuneration and we remain committed
deliver sustainable improved long-term to linking pay to the delivery of
value and returns to shareholders. performance. We set out more details
During the year, we returned £5.6 billion on our approach in our Remuneration
to our shareholders in dividends and Report on page 106.
share buy-backs – an increase of 75%
There have been several changes to
versus 2010.
the Board in 2011. Simon Dingemans
In the current uncertain economic succeeded Julian Heslop as Chief
environment, management of risk Financial Officer and Judy Lewent and
remains a key focus for the Board and Stacey Cartwright were appointed as
senior executive team. During 2011, we Non-Executive Directors. Judy and Stacey
reached an agreement in principle to have brought a wealth of experience from
settle the Group’s outstanding litigation business and finance and their respective
with the US Government on historic sales knowledge of the pharmaceutical
and marketing practices. This agreement industry and consumer brands represents
adds to settlements made for other strong additions to the Board. Going
outstanding litigation and significantly forward, James Murdoch has decided
reduces our overall legal exposure. to step down from the Board at this year’s
AGM and will not be offering himself for
The Board will continue to focus
re-election. I would like to thank James
on strengthening governance and
for his contribution to the Board over
compliance procedures to help reduce
the past three years.
future litigation and minimise other
risk for shareholders. Through the Audit We are committed to continuing to
and Risk Committee, we retain good improve diversity at Board level and have
visibility of the issues and challenges an aspiration to have more than 25%
faced by management and their work female representation by 2013.
to address them. In 2011, for example,
Finally, the Board was pleased that
we completed a thorough review of the
Sir Andrew was knighted in the 2012
Anti-Bribery and Corruption (ABAC)
New Years Honours for his services to
programme and associated training
the economy and the pharmaceutical
developed so as to ensure compliance
industry. This is a well-deserved
with the 2010 UK Bribery Act.
recognition of Sir Andrew’s contribution
It remains our strong belief that not only to GSK but also to the economy.
operating in a responsible and ethical
way is essential for the success of GSK.
As Chairman of the Corporate
Responsibility Committee, I was pleased
to see the progress we made during the
year to improve global access to our
medicines, including agreements to
supply large quantities of a number of
our vaccines to the poorest countries in Sir Christopher Gent
the world at a fraction of Western prices. Chairman11 GSK Annual Report 2011
Chief Executive’s
review
GSK’s record in 2011 During the year we delivered underlying In Emerging Markets, future pricing
sales growth, strong cash generation, pressure cannot be ruled out. However,
demonstrates that we
significant R&D progress and we as a result of organic investment and
are succeeding in our increased shareholder returns to targeted bolt-on acquisitions we have
£5.6 billion. completed, we continue to expect to
strategy to create a more deliver growth ahead of the market in
Underlying sales growth reflects
the region.
balanced business, deliver portfolio breadth and mix
Our business in Japan had an outstanding
sustainable financial Underlying sales for the group grew 4%.
year. This market is innovation-driven
This growth was broadly sourced, and we
performance and provide and GSK’s launch profile here is
saw strong performances across all areas
exceptional. In the last three years, our
new value to patients of our business with Pharmaceuticals
Japanese sales have grown by 35% and
up 2%, Vaccines up 11% and Consumer
and consumers. we have launched eight new products,
Healthcare up 5%.
including Cervarix which did especially
As expected, we saw a transition in our well in 2011 following implementation of
reported sales performance during the the national immunisation programme.
year, as the effects of the loss of sales
Like Japan, the USA is a pro-innovation
of Avandia, Valtrex and flu pandemic
environment. Here, GSK is now emerging
products diminished. Reported sales were
from a period of substantial patent
down 3% in the year – down 6% in the
expirations during which we have
first half but up 1% in the second half.
significantly re-shaped our business and
This clearly reflects the changes we have
redesigned our commercial organisation
made to create a business that is more
to align better with the changed payer
balanced and less vulnerable to volatility,
environment. We are confident our US
including generic pressures.
business is now well placed to deliver
This performance has been achieved improved performance.
despite continued economic pressures and
Overall, while our environment remains
political instability in Europe and some
challenging, and some volatility is
emerging markets.
inevitable, we continue to expect
underlying sales growth to translate to
reported sales growth in 2012.
Driving cash generation and
returns to shareholders
GSK continues to be highly cash
generative. Before legal settlements
of £1.5 billion, net cash inflow from
operating activities was £7.7 billion in
2011. Free cash flow was £4.1 billion.
During the year, we announced a full
year ordinary dividend of 70p, up 8%.
We also completed £2.2 billion of share
repurchases as part of our long-term
programme.
We also announced that we will return
the net proceeds from the sale of our
non-core North American OTC brands
to shareholders through payment of a
supplemental dividend of 5p, which will
be paid with the fourth quarter 2011
ordinary dividend.
skoorB
egroeG12 GSK Annual Report 2011
Strategic review Chief Executive’s review continued
Focus on R&D productivity As part of our continued focus on In the summer we announced a new
and returns improving returns, we have updated pricing structure for our vaccine against
our calculation of our expected rate of diarrhoeal disease, offering the GAVI
A key element of our strategy has been to
return on R&D investment. This has Alliance our vaccine at a fraction of the
improve R&D returns and productivity
now increased to 12% from 11% in 2010. cost of developed Western markets.
and I am very pleased with the progress
We are the only healthcare company This will save countless lives in the
our R&D organisation is making towards
to publish this analysis. I am extremely future and is sustainable as we are
achieving this.
encouraged by this progress and we are recouping the cost of goods and
Of the 15 medicines and vaccines on track to deliver our long term goal manufacture.
in Phase III development that we of 14%.
We are also on the cusp of creating the
highlighted at the start of 2011, we have
Operating with transparency and world’s first malaria vaccine. I know
now received some or all of the data on
responsibility first-hand the devastating impact that
nine of them. We expect to complete
this disease has on Africa, having lived
development programmes on six late- We remain committed to operating with
there for several years in the 1990s while
stage assets and indications in 2012. transparency and responsibility. During
running our business in the region. In
Of course, not all of the readouts were the year we made multiple advances on
October 2011, late-stage trials confirmed
positive, but the overall balance was. our agenda to ensure that our behaviour
the promise we have seen so far, showing
Importantly, we are seeing productivity and our actions meet or even exceed the
that the vaccine reduces the risk of
translate into real filings and approvals expectations of society.
malaria by half in African children
with three new medicines approved in
We continue to focus strongly on our aged 5 to 17 months.
the USA or Europe in 2011 and four more
procedures for compliance, marketing
ready with sufficient data in-house to file We also reiterated our commitment to
and selling, particularly in the USA. In
in 2012. price the vaccine at a level that covers
2011, for example, we established a new
costs and generates a small return of
Since 2008, we have had 16 new drugs compensation system to reward our US
around 5% that will be ploughed back
and vaccines approved in the USA, 11 of sales representatives on their quality of
into research for the next generation of
which were new molecular entities – this service to customers rather than sales
malaria medicines and vaccines.
is more than any of our peers. volumes delivered.
Outlook
All of this comes with positive indications In our environmental strategy, I was
that we can replenish our pipeline on an very pleased to see that we are already As we look ahead, we are clearly mindful
ongoing basis. making progress against the ambitious of the potential pressures we face given
goals we set out in March across our the current global environment.
In 2011 we completed the comprehensive
entire value chain, from raw materials However, we continue to expect to drive
reviews of our Discovery Performance
to product disposal. further shareholder returns as we seek to
Units; these units are comprised of 5-70
grow sales across our business and
scientists, with each group focusing on Another priority is to align our
improve operational leverage and
early stage discovery in one particular commercial success with forming new
financial efficiency to deliver strong
disease or pathway. Based on this review, partnerships to tackle the healthcare
cash generation.
we now believe that we can progress up to needs of people in developing countries.
30 medicines into late-stage development Early in 2011, GSK began supplying In conclusion, I would like to thank all of
over the next three years. pneumococcal vaccines to Kenya through GSK’s employees and the many partners
an innovative financing mechanism we work with around the world for their
known as the Advance Market outstanding contribution and support in
Commitment. This is the largest fund helping deliver a very successful 2011
ever designed for a single vaccine and has and creating the new opportunities we
dramatically increased sustainable access see for growth and performance in 2012
to this vaccine for babies across Africa. and beyond.
Sir Andrew Witty
Chief Executive Officer13 GSK Annual Report 2011
Our marketplace
The difficult market General overview from austerity measures taken to correct
public deficits and debt may become
conditions stemming Global economic growth was mixed in
more common.
2011, with events such as the tsunami
from the international
and earthquake in Japan, political unrest Pharmaceutical market
financial crisis continued in North Africa and the Middle East and Sales in the world pharmaceutical market
turbulence in the Eurozone affecting the
were worth £503 billion at constant
to impact the world’s international economy. The economic
exchange rates (CER) in the 12 months
environment through the year was
economies during 2011, to the end of September 2011, up from
particularly influenced by large budget
£481 billion in the prior year.
while sales in world deficits in the developed world, which
required significant action in some This represented growth of 4.5%, down
pharmaceutical markets
countries such as Greece and Italy. In from 5.4% growth a year earlier. The
showed significant the latter part of 2011, these pressures share of global sales fell in the USA,
prompted fears of recession in some which remained the top pharmaceutical
regional variation. countries despite improvements in a market, and also in Europe, while there
number of sectors, including sales in the was a rise in the rest of the world.
world pharmaceutical market.
The world pharmaceutical market is
Share prices in the USA ended at about the expected to continue to grow, although
same point as they started the year, but growth in mature markets will be limited
there were falls in Europe. The FTSE 100 compared to emerging markets, where
index of leading UK shares ended the year double-digit growth may be expected.
5.6% lower, while the DAX in Germany
Factors influencing growth
was 14.7% lower and the CAC 40 in France
was 17% down. Japan’s main share index, There is a significant need for medicines
the Nikkei, closed at its lowest end-of-year and healthcare treatments around
level since 1982 and China’s Shanghai the world. A number of factors give us
Composite Index lost 22% in 2011. reason to be optimistic about our ability
to grow our business by researching,
Based on external assessments, the
manufacturing and selling healthcare
outlook for global economic growth
treatments, particularly with the new
in 2012 remains uncertain. Where it
shape of our business. However, other
exists, recovery is likely to be slow and
factors can affect the performance and
unbalanced. Risks to mature economies
success of research-based healthcare
will be greater than in developing ones,
companies and the exact impact is
and social and political unrest arising
difficult to predict.
Value % of % compound growth
World pharmaceutical market by geographic region £bn total Sep 2006–Sep 2011
USA 195 38.8 4.0
Europe 132 26.2 3.8
Rest of World 176 35.0 9.9
Emerging markets 86 17.1 17.6
Asia Pacific 16 3.2 8.2
Japan 58 11.5 3.7
Canada 13 2.6 5.0
Total 503 100 5.8
Sales % of
4.5% World market – top therapeutic classes £bn total
Central nervous system 80 15.9
Antineoplastic/Immunomodulatory 70 13.9
Cardiovascular 70 13.9
Alimentary tract and metabolic 60 11.9
Anti-infectives (bacterial, viral and fungal excluding
sales growth in world vaccines) 50 9.9
pharmaceutical market Respiratory 35 7.0
in 2011
Data for market share and market growth rates are GSK estimates based on the most recent data
from independent external sources including IMS Health. Values are at CER (constant exchange rate).14 GSK Annual Report 2011
Strategic review Our marketplace continued
Growth of emerging markets/increased
Estimated change in world population (millions)
access to medicines and treatments
Fast-developing economies, and the 200
wealth this creates, are expanding the
opportunities for people to benefit from 100
medicines, vaccines and consumer
healthcare products. Emerging markets
0
such as China and India have large
populations and these markets are 2012 2013 2014 2015
expected to grow significantly more than 0–14 years 2011 pop: 1,751m 15–64 years 2011 pop: 4,413m 65+ years 2011 pop: 536m
mature markets in the next few years. The world population is projected to increase substantially from the current levels, with the
biggest proportional growth in the older age group (+2.9%).
Lifestyle changes and population growth
Source: IMS
The world’s population is rapidly
increasing in number and people are living
longer (see World population). Against this The relative percentage of these The number and impact of regulatory
background, health risks are changing. biopharmaceuticals to newly approved agency requirements continue to grow,
The success of treating infectious diseases medicines has continued to rise (see rise particularly around aspects of product
is having an impact on life expectancy of biotechnology). quality and safety. In addition, the
and patterns of physical activity and Price controls evaluation of benefit and risk continue
food, alcohol and tobacco consumption to be paramount consideration for the
are changing. Low and middle-income In many countries the prices of approval of a new medicine. In the USA,
countries face a double burden of pharmaceutical products are controlled the Food and Drug Administration (FDA)
increasing chronic, non-communicable by law. Governments may also has increasingly focused on the safety of
conditions, as well as the communicable influence prices through their control medicines from approval through to the
diseases that traditionally affect the poor. of national healthcare organisations, post-marketing phase of the product.
which can bear a large part of the cost
The prevalence of chronic disease is of supplying medicines to consumers. In 2011 the FDA approved the highest
increasing in middle-income countries Recent government healthcare reforms number of new molecular entities since
and is beginning to have an impact in the in countries such as France, Spain and 2004, and nearly a third of these approvals
least developed countries. Germany may restrict pricing and were for therapies to treat rare diseases.
This is in line with the FDA’s priority to
Advances in science and technology reimbursement. address the public health needs of special
Scientific advances continue to translate In the USA there are currently no populations. Enforcement and compliance
into new medicines and technologies, government price controls over private activity increased in the manufacturing
although it is difficult to predict which sector purchases, but federal law requires and global supply chain, as well as in
ones and at what rate. For instance, pharmaceutical manufacturers to pay drug advertising and promotion. The
following the development of monoclonal rebates on certain medicines to be eligible FDA developed its goals for the renewal in
antibodies and biopharmaceutical for reimbursement under several state and 2012 of the Prescription Drug User Fee Act
manufacturing techniques of the past two federal healthcare programmes. Those (PDUFA)with a focus on enhancing the
decades, many new ‘biopharmaceuticals’ rebates increased in 2011 as the health science of drug development, improving
medicines have been approved. reform law, the Affordable Care Act the quality of evidence in applications,
(ACA), came into effect. providing a more efficient and predictable
review process, and maintaining public
The rise of biotechnology % The pressure to control healthcare costs confidence.
will continue in 2012 and beyond. US
2002 85 Government spending on healthcare In Europe, following the adoption of
2002 15 programmes, cross-border trade, the revised European Union (EU) legislation,
acceleration of generics to market, new measures aimed at strengthening the
2010 67
comparative effectiveness research, safety monitoring of medicines are under
2010 33
pharmaceutical pricing and other issues of discussion and will be implemented from
2016 55 importance to our industry are part of the July 2012.
2016 45 continuing healthcare debate in the USA.
New EU laws to protect citizens from the
Prescription and OTC Biotechnology Regulatory pressures threats posed by fake medicines have been
The proportion of biotechnology sales The pharmaceuticals and vaccines adopted. Discussions continue on draft
compared to global prescription and OTC industry is highly regulated. Regional and legislation on improving citizens’ access
pharmaceutical sales within the world’s to reliable information on medicines. The
country-specific laws and regulations are
top 100 drugs. European Medicines Agency (EMA) has
major factors in determining whether a
Source: EvaluatePharma® published more information on how the
product can be developed and approved.15 GSK Annual Report 2011
vision outlined in its five-year strategic name registrations – is critical in ensuring sold in the EU as Seretide. Trademark
plan, Road Map to 2015, is expected to be a reasonable return on investment in R&D. protection may generally be extended as
developed. The EU Commission continued long as the trademark is used by renewing
It is our policy to try to obtain patents
with its review of the regulation of clinical it when necessary. GSK’s trademarks are
on commercially important, protectable
trials in Europe and legislative proposals are important for maintaining the brand
inventions discovered or developed
expected in 2012. identity of our products. We enforce our
through our R&D activities. Patent
trademark rights to prevent infringements.
The regulatory environment in emerging protection for new active ingredients
markets and Asia Pacific continues to is available in major markets and Competition
evolve, with a number of countries patents can also be obtained for new
revising their regulatory review systems. drug formulations, manufacturing Within the pharmaceutical industry,
We participate in a number of specific processes, medical uses and devices for competition can come from other
regional and national regulatory administering products. companies making patent-protected
initiatives which provide opportunities medicines with indications to treat
for meaningful scientific and regulatory Although we may obtain patents for our similar diseases to our medicines, or from
dialogue between industry, agencies products, this does not prevent them manufacturers making generic copies of
and other stakeholders. We continue to from being challenged before they our medicines following patent expiration.
expire. Further, the grant of a patent
include broader sets of patient populations Our principal pharmaceutical and
does not mean that the issued patent will
from a number of these countries in vaccines competitors include:
necessarily be held valid and enforceable
medicine development programmes in
by a court. If a court determines that Abbott Laboratories, Amgen, AstraZeneca,
order to increase global patient access to
a patent we hold is invalid, non- Bristol-Myers Squibb, Eli Lilly,
new innovative medicines, and optimise
infringed or unenforceable, it will not Johnson & Johnson, Merck, Novartis,
regulatory approvals. For example, China,
protect the market from third party Pfizer, Roche Holdings, Sanofi, Takeda
Russia, India and other emerging market
entry prior to patent expiry. Significant and Teva Pharmaceuticals.
countries are updating their regulations
litigation concerning such challenges is The Consumer Healthcare market has
to have local clinical experience in their
summarised in Note 44 to the financial become more challenging. Consumers
populations as part of the registration
statements, ‘Legal proceedings’. are demanding better quality and better
packages for new chemical entities.
value. Retailers have consolidated and
The treatment of many neglected tropical
The consumer healthcare industry is globalised, which has strengthened
diseases has little or no commercial
subject to national regulation comparable their negotiation power. Our principle
market to stimulate research or reward
to that for prescription medicines for the competitors in these markets include:
innovation. In these areas we are taking
testing, approval, manufacturing, labelling
a more flexible approach to help speed Colgate-Palmolive, Johnson & Johnson,
and marketing of products. High standards
up R&D for new medicines. This includes Procter & Gamble, Unilever, Pfizer
of technical appraisal frequently involve
being more flexible with our patents and and Novartis.
a lengthy review and approval process
providing access to our know-how and In addition, many other smaller companies
before a new product may be launched.
resources, and sharing our data with the compete with GSK in certain markets.
Generic pressures research community. Our objective is to
Outlook
ensure that IP is not seen as a barrier to
When patents expire on a medicine,
much-needed research that could spur the While our operating environment remains
these medicines can be subject to
development of new and better treatments challenging, we have made significant
competition from generic products.
against neglected tropical diseases. progress through restructuring and a
The effect of this is particularly acute in
rigorous returns-based approach to capital
Western markets, where generic products The life of a patent in most countries is 20
allocation. We expect underlying sales
can rapidly capture a large share of the years from the filing date. However, the
momentum to translate into reported
market following patent expiration. long development time for new medicines
growth in 2012 at constant exchange
As generic manufacturers typically do can mean that a substantial amount of
rates, despite further anticipated pricing
not incur significant costs for research this patent life has been eroded prior to
reductions in many markets.
and development, education or market launch. In some markets it is possible to
development, they are able to offer their have some of this lost time restored and The outlook for the timing and impact of
products at considerably lower prices than this leads to variations in the amount substitutable competition to Seretide/Advair
branded competitors. The same pressures of patent life actually available for each in both Europe and the USA is uncertain.
do not apply as significantly to vaccines. product we market. This uncertainty is in part due to
Intellectual property Trademarks significant regulatory and manufacturing
requirements that need to be satisfied
Intellectual property (IP) is an important All of our commercial products are to produce an inhaled medicine such as
aspect of our business, and the effective protected by registered trademarks Seretide/Advair. In addition, patents over
legal protection of our intellectual in major markets. There may be local the delivery devices for Seretide/Advair
property – via patents, trademarks, variations, for example, in the USA the are referenced on page 239. See also ‘Risk
registered designs, copyrights and domain trademark Advair covers the same product factors’ on pages 72 to 77.16 GSK Annual Report 2011
Strategic review Our strategy for growth
1 Grow a diversified
global business
Overview
We are creating a more balanced business and product portfolio capable
of delivering sustainable sales growth. This is centred on our three business
areas of Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare.
We have substantially increased our investment in higher-growth areas
such as our operations in Emerging Markets and Japan and in our global
Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare businesses. As well as accessing these
newer markets, the broadly-based business we are creating is less vulnerable to
volatility, including generic pressures.
We also see significant competitive advantage and synergy through our ability
to distribute pharmaceuticals, vaccines and consumer healthcare products
particularly in rapidly growing emerging economies.
Progress
Our record demonstrates the success of this approach. Although reported
turnover fell 3% in 2011, we have delivered underlying sales growth of 4%
in each of the past two years. We anticipate that underlying sales growth will
translate into reported sales growth in 2012. (For details of underlying growth
see page 27).
In addition, 38% of Group turnover is now generated outside the USA and
Europe. The shift in sales away from a reliance on ‘white pills in Western
markets’ to a broader base including Emerging Markets, Vaccines and
Consumer Healthcare is clear.
+ 17 – 2717 GSK Annual Report 2011
Group turnover
Total sales How we performed
£27.4bn
Underlying* Reported Reported turnover declined 3% in
growth growth 2011, however underlying turnover
£bn CER % CER %
rose 4% for the second 2010: £28.4bn
2011 27.4 4 (3) consecutive year.
2010 28.4 4 (1)
2009 28.4 n/a 3
% of
£bn turnover
2011 6.1 22
2010 6.8 24
2009 8.2 29
% of
£bn turnover
2011 14.8 54
2010 15.1 53
2009 13.5 47
% of
£bn turnover
2011 10.4 38
2010 10.0 35
2009 8.4 29
+ 27
Diversify sales away from
white pills in Western markets
Sales How we performed
22%
We continue to see the proportion
of our sales from ‘white pills in
Western markets’ decline, reducing
2010: 24%
our susceptibility to generic
pressures in these markets.
+
Priorities and progress
51
Create a more balanced
business
Sales outside USA and Europe How we performed
Sales in markets outside the USA
and Europe increased to 38% of
total sales in 2011.
+
of Group turnover
Turnover in major growth areas
Turnover in major growth areas How we performed
£14.8bn
Turnover in our major growth areas
(Vaccines, Consumer Healthcare,
Emerging Markets, Asia Pacific 2010: £15.1bn
and Japan Pharmaceuticals and
Dermatology) totalled £14.8 billion,
54% of Group turnover.
52
£10.4bn
2010: £10.0bn
* The calculation of underlying turnover is described on page 51.18 GSK Annual Report 2011
Strategic review 1. Grow a diversified global business continued
USA
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines
We have made good Marketplace For the year, reported sales declined by
5% compared with 2010, marked by lower
progress in our aim to The US healthcare market continues
sales of pandemic products, Avandia and
to change significantly in response to
generate sustainable sales Valtrex. Underlying sales for the year were
government reforms. Patients, healthcare
flat at £6.9 billion, despite the impact of
growth in a challenging providers and payers are demanding healthcare reform.
higher-quality care, lower costs and better
market environment and health outcomes. Despite a 5% fall in reported sales, our
US operating profit increased by 1% as
to do so in keeping with With the passage of healthcare reform
our efforts to simplify and standardise
legislation, the government now pays for
our values. work processes produced efficiencies that
the majority of US healthcare. Over the
helped control costs and offset the decline
next few years, as the reforms continue
in sales of certain products combined
to be implemented, healthcare providers
with higher asset disposal income.
Turnover and payers will further change how they
provide and pay for healthcare. In our Pharmaceuticals business, reported
£7.0bn turnover declined by 6% and underlying
Payers are demanding more evidence
turnover declined by 1%. Sales of our
of value through studies that compare
Growth the economics and effectiveness of largest product, Advair, declined 1%. This
£bn CER % follows the drop in the US market for ICS/
treatment regimens and therapies. They
2011 7.0 (5) LABA combination products following
are also increasingly linking provider
2010 7.6 (11) reimbursement with health outcomes. the revised class labelling implemented
by the Food and Drug Administration
Among healthcare providers, physicians (FDA) in 2010. Hycamtin sales declined
Operating profit are consolidating into group practices, 92% due to generic competition and
which are joining integrated delivery Zovirax sales declined 79% following the
£4.9bn networks. Hospitals are consolidating in divestment of the brand in January 2011.
an effort to obtain the scale and resources
Our established promoted products –
Growth needed to perform effectively in a system which account for 80% of our business
£bn CER % that rewards value rather than volume.
– have on the whole performed strongly.
2011 4.9 1
Patient behaviour is changing too. As This included contributions from our
2010 5.0 (16) payers institute higher co-payment for respiratory business, in particular Ventolin
doctor visits and prescription drugs, (up 39%); the cardiovascular drug Lovaza
patients are becoming more involved and (up 12%); our neuroscience medicine
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines interested in the cost and quality of the Lamictal (up 12%) and our new oncology
turnover 2011 care they receive. products, Promacta (up 36%), Arzerra
(up 23%) and Votrient (up 76%).
9 1 These are far-reaching changes to the
8 environment in which we operate but we In our Vaccines business, reported
7 6 see them as an opportunity to work with turnover increased by 11% reflecting
5 patients, payers and healthcare providers the strong performances of FluLaval (up
to meet their evolving needs. 25%), Infanrix/Pediarix (up 16%) and
Rotarix (up 55%), partly offset by a 31%
Performance
4 decline in Cervarix sales.
32
Growth Our Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines In 2011 we had a number of FDA
£m CER % business is emerging from a period of
approvals: Potiga, Benlysta and Horizant,
1 Respiratory 3,301 1 substantial patent expirations in the USA
along with new indications for Boostrix
2 Anti-virals 149 (58) which has seen a 31% fall in sales over the
3 Central nervous system 474 (3) and Lamictal XR. Benlysta was developed
past three years. Our focus in 2011 has
4 Cardiovascular and urogenital 1,564 3 by GSK and Human Genome Sciences.
been to re-shape our business to resource
5 Metabolic 90 (61)
new areas of growth, such as oncology, We have achieved these results while
6 Anti-bacterials 54 (25)
7 Oncology and emesis 272 (19) and rescale our presence in primary care. working hard to transform our business,
8 Vaccines 814 11 We have also redesigned our commercial including implementing an industry-
9 Dermatology 287 (17) organisation to align it better with the leading incentive compensation system for
changed payer environment. sales professionals who work directly with
healthcare providers (see ‘Changing the
way we incentivese our sales teams’).19 GSK Annual Report 2011
Changing the way
we incentivise our
sales teams
We altered the way we reward our
customer-facing pharmaceutical and
vaccine sales professionals in 2011.
This new system rewards sales
professionals for the quality of
their interactions with healthcare
professionals, including an element
of customer evaluation, rather than
for achieving individual sales targets.
This approach aligns with our
core value of putting the interests
of patients first and the goal we
share with healthcare providers of
improving patient health.
In 2011 we had a
substantial number of
To further increase transparency in how To support our communities, we
FDA approvals: Potiga,
we conduct our business, we added to our made a $5 million grant to the City of
Benlysta and Horizant, voluntary disclosures regarding payments Philadelphia for youth development,
made to healthcare practitioners by and at a White House meeting on US
along with new
including payments to healthcare education reforms we pledged $10 million
indications for Boostrix professionals conducting clinical research over the next five years. This is in keeping
for us. This built on the commitment we with our long-term support of science
and Lamictal XR.”
made in 2009 to publish payments to education.
healthcare professionals for their work as
Our new environmentally friendly
speakers and advisers.
facilities in the Philadelphia Navy Yard
We have continued our long-standing area are being constructed with the
commitments to provide patients with highest possible international designation
access to our medicines. To improve for a green building, and will be highly
access to oncology and speciality efficient in energy and water use.
medications, we launched CARES by Our manufacturing site in Zebulon,
GSK, a comprehensive programme that North Carolina has reduced its water
not only offers speciality reimbursement consumption by almost 20% over the
services and free medicine, but also an past four years and is working to achieve
oncology co-pay assistance programme to its goal of sending zero waste to landfill.
provide further help to eligible patients
with limited insurance coverage gain
better access to our oral oncology and
speciality medicines.
segamI
ytteG/ekcoL
naeS20 GSK Annual Report 2011
Strategic review 1. Grow a diversified global business continued
Europe
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines
The economic climate Marketplace In our Pharmaceuticals business, reported
turnover declined 5% and underlying
and government austerity Many healthcare systems across Europe
turnover declined by 2%. Sales by volume
face a dilemma: ageing populations and
measures have impacted of Seretide – our asthma and COPD product
increases in chronic illness and lifestyle
– increased, but revenue declined 2%
sales revenues, but we diseases are creating a growing demand because of price cuts and a mild flu season.
for improved healthcare, while the
The flu season also impacted anti-bacterial
continue to focus on economic climate is forcing governments
portfolio sales, which declined 5%. Our
to tighten healthcare budgets.
expanding our range of new oncology products – Votrient, Promacta
As a result, government-led price cuts and and Arzerra – performed well, and sales of
products and enhancing
cost-saving initiatives created challenges Duodart and Avodart, which treat benign
transparency of the way for us in 2011, and the impact of these prostatic hyperplasia, grew more than
austerity measures more than doubled 26%, despite Duodart not having market
we operate. compared with 2010. access approval in France and Italy in 2011.
With the outlook for the European While gaining approval from
economy highly uncertain, we expect governments to market new products
Turnover further pressure on pricing. In addition, continues to be a challenge, our
as governments and regulators add to new products Prolia, a treatment for
£5.8bn their requirements for the evidence of osteoporosis, and Benlysta, for lupus, have
value of new medicines, we are seeing been launched in the majority of markets
Growth longer lead times in bringing products in Europe.
£bn CER % to market.
In our Vaccines business, reported
2011 5.8 (13)
We think current pricing and turnover declined by 36% and underlying
2010 6.5 (6)
reimbursement policies need to be turnover by 11%, reflecting austerity-
redesigned to achieve a sustainable driven price cuts and fewer tender orders
framework that ensures patients have for Cervarix.
Operating profit
access to effective treatments, payers have
The first implementation of GSK’s new
financial stability and the pharmaceutical
£3.2bn global standard Enterprise Resource
industry is encouraged to continue to
Planning system, designed to standardise
invest in research.
and improve financial and commercial
Growth
£bn CER % Performance processes, was completed successfully in
2011 3.2 (16) Germany, and the deployment of our new
In our European business, sales are
European supply chain continues.
2010 3.7 (4)
composed of large contributions from our
respiratory and cardiovascular/urogenital We have continued our focus on
products and vaccines. evolving our business towards greater
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines
transparency in the way we operate.
turnover 2011 Our European management team has
We have introduced new global standards
remained resilient in a challenging
governing how we share scientific and
9 1 environment. Reported turnover for 2011
clinical data on our medicines, to ensure
fell by 13% to £5.8 billion. Underlying
a clear distinction between scientific
turnover, excluding revenues from
8 dialogue and promotional activity.
pandemic products, Avandia and Valtrex,
7
declined 4%. Continued government We have also changed the way we reward
6 5 2 austerity measures impacted underlying pharmaceuticals field sales staff, replacing
3 growth in the region by approximately individual sales targets as the basis for
4
Growth 5 percentage points in 2011. reward with qualitative criteria, overall
£m CER % business financial achievement and
Our performance was underpinned by
1 Respiratory 2,115 (2) individual-indexed performance measures.
2 Anti-virals 82 (26) reduced operating costs of 8% compared
3 Central nervous system 480 (12) with 2010 while continuing to invest in We continue to work with our local
4 Cardiovascular and urogenital 656 6 our products and recent launches. Despite communities to support charitable
5 Metabolic 67 (60) these initiatives, operating profit fell by programmes that are innovative,
6 Anti-bacterials 513 (5) 16% primarily due to the loss of sales of sustainable and that strengthen
7 Oncology and emesis 249 22 pandemic products, Avandia and Valtrex. healthcare infrastructure. Our financial
8 Vaccines 1,091 (36)
support each year totals more than
9 Dermatology 251 1
€1 million in Europe (excluding the UK).21 GSK Annual Report 2011
1. Grow a diversified global business continued
Emerging Markets
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines
Our underlying growth Marketplace We are continuing to scale up business
around our off-patent products, and
in Emerging Markets is The commercial environment in
reported sales grew 13% to £1.5 billion
Emerging Markets presented diverse
outpacing growth in the in 2011, helped by the acquisition of
challenges in 2011 including political
Phoenix in Argentina in 2010. Our
pharmaceutical market instability in parts of North Africa and flagship heritage medicine, the antibiotic
the Middle East and toughening
Augmentin, celebrated 30 years on the
as we work to bring a competition and more aggressive pricing
market by turning in growth of 11%.
controls in some countries, including
diverse range of relevant, Other anti-infectives and our CNS
Russia and Turkey.
portfolio are also contributing to
affordable medicines to
Further pricing pressure cannot be ruled growth in this area.
as many people as out. However, as a result of organic
Although reported vaccine sales were
investment and the targeted bolt-on
possible through a acquisitions we have completed, we down 12% to £810 million, underlying
sales rose 17% to £810 million.
continue to expect to deliver growth
flexible pricing approach. Synflorix had a successful launch in
ahead of the market in this region.
Emerging Markets, with sales of
Performance £276 million in 2011.
Turnover Our approach in Emerging Markets is We have further consolidated recent
based on growing our Pharmaceuticals acquisitions such as Nanjing MeiRui
£3.7bn and Vaccines businesses through Pharma Co. Ltd in China, expanded
increasing access to our newer patent- our portfolio through in-licensing
protected brands and our off-patent arrangements, and strengthened our
Growth
£bn CER % branded medicines and vaccines. business through signing innovative
2011 3.7 6 technology agreements. Earlier in the
We have established a broad portfolio of
year we transformed the vaccine joint
2010 3.6 22 affordable international brands across
venture with Neptunus in China into a
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines. We believe
wholly-owned operation.
this offers us significant competitive
Operating profit advantage and is a key strength of our We are adopting a range of flexible
business in emerging markets. pricing models in Emerging Markets
£1.2bn based on a country’s ability to pay. Since
Reported turnover growth in the year
we introduced our approach on flexible
was 6%, but underlying growth of 15%
Growth pricing to Avamys and Avodart in 2009,
£bn CER % outpaced growth in the market for the we have seen volume sales increases
third consecutive year. The underlying
2011 1.2 (3) in our key markets of 388% and 76%
growth was driven by relatively consistent
2010 1.3 31 respectively. The introduction of flexible
pharmaceuticals growth during the
pricing for Cervarix in 2010 has enabled
year, of 14%. Operating profit fell 3%,
us to deliver double the number of doses
reflecting the loss of sales of pandemic
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines of this vaccine against cervical cancer
products, Avandia and Valtrex.
turnover 2011 to women throughout the region while
Our Latin American businesses were seeing attractive returns.
1
9 especially strong, growing reported sales
In 2011 we announced two significant
by 3%, 24% on an underlying basis,
commitments to accelerate access to
2 while India grew reported and underlying vaccines against childhood illness
sales by 16%. There was significant
through our long-standing partnership
3
market disruption in some Middle Eastern
8 7 with the GAVI Alliance. In June, we
5 4 countries because of social unrest, and as
committed to supply our rotavirus
6 a result our Middle East/Africa business
vaccines to GAVI at a fraction of
Growth grew reported sales by only 5%, 8% on
developing world prices. We also
£m CER %
an underlying basis.
1 Respiratory 642 8 announced an extension to our
2 Anti-virals 242 9 Sales from our patent-protected pneumococcal vaccines agreement
3 Central nervous system 248 14 medicines improved to approximately with GAVI (more on page 45).
4 Cardiovascular and urogenital 174 34
£1.3 billion up 13% on a reported basis,
5 Metabolic 67 (23)
16% underlying.
6 Anti-bacterials 649 11
7 Oncology and emesis 76 27
8 Vaccines 810 (12)
9 Dermatology 354 2822 GSK Annual Report 2011
Strategic review 1. Grow a diversified global business continued
Japan
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines
GSK Japan achieved Marketplace During 2011, we also received approval
for Lamictal for bipolar disorder, and
significant underlying The Japanese pharmaceutical market
Arixtra received an additional indication
grew by around 7% in 2011. Growth
growth in 2011 despite for treatment of venous thrombo-
was helped partly because there were no
embolism. At the end of 2011, our
the major earthquake government price revisions to its drug development pipeline consisted of
pricing scheme. The government has
more than 50 projects, with five under
and tsunami in March. announced its intention to continue
regulatory review, five preparing for
the provisional drug pricing scheme
We responded quickly new product approval submission, and
introduced in 2010, with the next price
34 in Phase III. This pipeline includes
to provide financial and revision due in 2012.
treatments for rare diseases with 15
product donations and Also helping the market in 2011 was the orphan-designated compounds.
implementation of funding for disease
to organise employee preventation through cervical cancer and Our Vaccines business recorded sales
of £347 million in 2011 (2010 –
pneumoccocal vaccines.
volunteers. £57 million, excluding sales of flu
Performance pandemic vaccines of £383 million).
This performance was driven by
The market in Japan encourages
Turnover sales of Cervarix, which reached
innovation and GSK performed strongly
£344 million following the introduction
£2.1bn in both Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines. of the government’s national funding
In the past three years we have launched
programme for cervical cancer prevention.
eight product indications and we have
Growth
£bn CER % the potential to launch a number of In July 2011, Japanese regulators approved
2011 2.1 – new product indications in the next Rotarix, marking the second approval
three years. of a GSK vaccine (excluding pandemic
2010 2.0 14
vaccine) in the country. Rotarix was
Reported turnover of £2.1 billion was flat
launched in November as the first
compared with 2010, while underlying
vaccine in Japan for the prevention
Operating profit turnover grew 30%. Operating profit of rotavirus gastroenteritis in infants.
fell 6%, reflecting the loss of sales of
It is co-promoted with Daiichi-Sankyo.
£1.2bn pandemic products.
Following the natural disaster of the
Our reported Pharmaceutical sales grew
earthquake and tsunami in March
Growth 8% to £1.7 billion reflecting strong
£bn CER % 2011, we supported people affected by
growth of Adoair (Seretide/Advair), which
2011 1.2 (6) providing substantial financial and
rose 11% and the performance of newly
product donations, and establishing
2010 1.2 20
launched products such as Avolve/Avodart
teams of volunteers – named ‘Team
and Xyzal, an anti-histamine licensed
Orange’ – who in the initial stage
from UCB.
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines provided critical supplies to the
turnover 2011 In CNS, Paxil remained a leader in the affected areas.
anti-depressants market, although sales
Later, the volunteers provided labour and
9 1 fell 7%. The recent introduction of other
teamed up with medical professionals to
anti-depressant medicines has provided
offer medical and counselling support.
8 a range of other prescribing options
7 Supporting activities such as scholarships
6 for physicians.
5 for students in pharmaceutical studies
2 will be maintained to contribute to the
4 region’s recovery.
3
Growth
£m CER %
1 Respiratory 586 14
2 Anti-virals 210 (17)
3 Central nervous system 397 4
4 Cardiovascular and urogenital 195 59
5 Metabolic 90 (2)
6 Anti-bacterials 31 (14)
7 Oncology and emesis 42 21
8 Vaccines 347 (26)
9 Dermatology 63 (2)23 GSK Annual Report 2011
1. Grow a diversified global business continued
Asia Pacific
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines
The Asia Pacific region Marketplace We are the leading vaccines provider
across the Asia Pacific region. Reported
is a contributor to GSK’s Economic growth across the region
Vaccines sales growth was 18% and
continues to exceed the global average,
success, and showed underlying growth was 22%, supported
with both the pharmaceutical market and
primarily through sales of our newer
positive underlying gross domestic product growth exceeding vaccines Rotarix (£30 million, up 45%),
that of the world’s developed economies.
Cervarix (£44 million, up 47%), and
growth for most markets
Pricing pressures in a number of Synflorix (£21 million, up 75%).
in 2011, with particularly countries across the region, as well as
Public market performance was
manufacturing and intellectual property
strong performances from particularly strong with the continuing
challenges, are likely to be offset by
supply of Cervarix to the National
Malaysia and Vietnam. growing populations and increasing
Immunisation Programme in Malaysia,
incomes for the emerging middle classes.
and the successful award of the New
As with our Emerging Markets business, Zealand national pneumococcal vaccine
we continue to expect to deliver growth tender to Synflorix.
ahead of the market in the region.
Being flexible in our pricing is helping
Turnover
Performance build our business in the Asia Pacific
£1.2bn region by increasing the overall volume
Our business in Asia Pacific is based on
of products we sell.
three main pillars: vaccines, off-patent
Growth established pharmaceutical products, In Indonesia, we reduced prices (15–80%
£bn CER %
such as Augmentin and Ventolin and across 15 brands) to ensure our medicines
2011 1.2 5 recently launched medicines such as reached more people in need of them.
2010 1.1 1 Votrient, Tyverb and Duodart/Avodart. This resulted in volume increases of up
to 50%. In neighbouring Singapore, a
Strong performance was seen across all
45% price reduction for our antibiotic
three pillars of the Asia Pacific business.
Operating profit Augmentin led to a three-fold increase in
Reported sales in our Asia Pacific business volume sales.
£567m
grew 5% and reached £1.2 billion in 2011.
Thailand has also launched an initiative
With underlying sales growth of 9%
to reach more patients through an access
Growth (excluding pandemic products, Avandia
programme for two leading brands,
£m CER % and Valtrex), the business once again
Seretide and Augmentin. Coupled with
2011 567 7 outperformed the market growth in the
a price reduction of 20–40% for both
2010 503 4 region, which was 6%.
products, access was also increased
Asia Pacific operating profit increased by addressing distribution channels;
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines by 7% on a turnover increase of 5%, government hospitals introduced a more
turnover 2011 reflecting favourable operating leverage. flexible reimbursement policy and private
hospitals agreed to reduce the price paid
9 1 In our portfolio of newer brands, sales by patients.
of Seretide reached £186 million, a rise
of 10%, with other products such as
Tykerb (up 43%) and Avamys (up 30%),
contributing significantly to growth.
2
8 7
There was continued strong performance
6 5 4 3 by established brands such as Ventolin,
which achieved sales of £71 million,
Growth
£m CER % up 13%, and Augmentin, which reached
1 Respiratory 311 12 £48 million, up 2%.
2 Anti-virals 112 (21)
3 Central nervous system 91 1
4 Cardiovascular and urogenital 92 18
5 Metabolic 26 (34)
6 Anti-bacterials 99 (3)
7 Oncology and emesis 28 –
8 Vaccines 300 18
9 Dermatology 81 1024 GSK Annual Report 2011
Strategic review 1. Grow a diversified global business continued
Consumer
Healthcare
Our Consumer Marketplace Nutritional healthcare grew 10% in
2011, driven by strong Rest of the world
Healthcare business In developed markets, the recent economic
results (up 17%) and the acquisition of
turmoil has weakened consumer demand,
performed well in the face Europe’s leading sports nutrition brand,
slowed growth in the consumer healthcare
Maxinutrition, early in the year. Horlicks
of economic uncertainty. market and increased competitive pressure. continued to register strong growth in
Our main competitors have increased
India. Functional beverages registered
Turnover was boosted spending on marketing and have begun to
strong results in emerging markets,
discount aggressively in an effort to gain
by strong key brand led by double-digit growth of Lucozade
market share.
and Ribena in Africa where the business
performance and growth
Investment in our brands, including benefited from enhanced consumer
in emerging markets. consumer-driven scientific innovation availability and innovative specific
and industry-leading consumer packaging for these markets.
marketing, is critical to differentiating
Oral healthcare sales grew 8% on the back
our products and maintaining profitable
of strong performances from brands like
growth in these markets.
the Sensodyne Sensitivity & Acid Erosion
Turnover Emerging markets continue to register business, which grew 16%, driven by the
strong economic and consumer healthcare launch of Sensodyne Repair & Protect, and
£5.2bn
category growth as an unprecedented the brand’s ongoing roll-out in emerging
number of households enter the consumer markets. Denture care delivered high
Growth segment. Nearly 90% of world consumer single-digit growth, with double-digit
£m CER %
healthcare growth is forecast to come from growth in key emerging markets bolstered
2011 5.2 5 these markets over the next five years. by good growth in Japan and the USA.
2010 5.0 5
Performance To build on our growth in 2011, we
evaluated the structure of our consumer
Our Consumer Healthcare business in
business and re-shaped it to enable us to
Operating profit 2011 was based on a global approach in the
create sustainable growth in a changing
three main areas where we have leading
market.
£1.1bn
brands: Over-the-counter (OTC) medicines,
Oral healthcare and Nutritional healthcare. Most significantly, we refocused our brand
Growth Turnover growth was 5% for the year, portfolio and identified four large, high-
£m CER % compared with estimated market growth value categories to define the business
2011 1.1 8 of 4%, driven by our continued focus on footprint: Wellness, Oral health, Nutrition
2010 1.0 8 innovation and geographic expansion. and Skin health. Our aim is to become
Operating profit for the year grew 8%. the world’s most successful fast-moving
consumer healthcare company, driven
Breakdown of turnover 2011 We had strong growth in emerging by science and values.
markets including Africa and the Middle
East (both up 22%), China (16%) and As part of this initiative, we announced
1
India (up 19%). We are well positioned for our intention to divest non-core
3 success in emerging markets, which make products predominantly in the USA and
up more than one-third of our global Europe with aggregate annual sales of
Consumer Healthcare sales. We have approximately £500 million. The aim
leadership positions in key categories of the divestment is to realise value for
in India, China and other Asian, African shareholders, simplify the business and
2 and Middle Eastern markets. allow us to focus on priority brands
Growth and markets.
£m CER % Sales in developed markets were flat.
1 Over-the-counter medicines 2,453 – Strong performances in Japan and On 31 January 2012 we completed the
2 Oral healthcare 1,717 8 Australia were offset by declines in North divestment of brands in the USA and
3 Nutritional healthcare 1,025 10
America and Europe, which both posted Canada to Prestige Brands Holdings for
falls of 2%. £426 million in cash. The brands included
BC, Goody’s, Beano, Ecotrin, FiberChoice
OTC sales for the year were flat. The
and Tagamet, and generated sales of
Panadol franchise registered growth of 7%
approximately £126 million in 2011.
while in gastrointestinal health, the core
This divestment will impact our reported
brands Tums and Eno were up 17% and
growth for 11 months of 2012.
15% respectively. These performances
were offset by a decline in sales of alli.25 GSK Annual Report 2011
The net cash proceeds from the The shift will allow us to build stronger In addition to branding on the car and
transaction will be returned to global brands, enhance our global drivers’ overalls, Lucozade will supply
shareholders as a supplemental dividend consumer insight, design and retail sports nutrition products that will play
of 5 pence per share to be paid at the marketing capabilities, and enable the an integral role in the drivers’ preparation,
same time as the fourth interim dividend development of category strategies focused performance and recovery. We will also
for 2011. The process for divestment on emerging markets. work with McLaren to develop analytical
of the remaining non-core OTC and performance management tools
Building on GSK’s partnership with
brands continues, subject to delivering to improve our ability to make faster
McLaren, in September 2011 Lucozade
appropriate shareholder value. decisions about longer-term investment
announced a five-year performance
allocations for new product development
We have shifted responsibility for category partnership with the Vodafone McLaren
and innovations.
and brand strategy to the category teams, Mercedes Formula 1 motor racing team.
which share profit and loss accountability
with geographic regions.
Sensodyne strength
Sensodyne Repair & Protect, a
strong contributor to growth in the
Consumer Healthcare business, is the
first everyday fluoride toothpaste
to contain NovaMin technology,
which is proven to repair sensitive
teeth. Since its launch in February
2011, Sensodyne Repair & Protect has
been available in 30 markets across
Europe, Asia and the Middle East,
with 20 additional launches planned
for 2012. The Sensodyne franchise has
registered double-digit growth for
11 consecutive quarters.
The patented NovaMin
technology helps
repair vulnerable
areas of the teeth with
hydroxyapatite, the
natural building blocks
of teeth. Once it comes
into contact with saliva,
NovaMin releases calcium
and phosphate to form a
protective mineral layer
over the vulnerable areas
in the enamel.”
segamI
ytteG
,etybkcotS
mrafotohP
,nosniboR
ydnA26 GSK Annual Report 2011
Strategic review 1. Grow a diversified global business continued
ViiV Healthcare
ViiV Healthcare has Marketplace ViiV Healthcare’s operating profit
declined by 2%, reflecting increased
a comprehensive Since its recognition 30 years ago, the HIV
investment in R&D to support four major
epidemic has become one of the biggest
portfolio and pipeline ongoing Phase III trials for the
public health challenges. Approximately
integrase inhibitor, dolutegravir.
of medicines and a 34 million people worldwide are living
with HIV and 25 million have died from A comprehensive approach to improving
distinctive operating AIDS-related illnesses. access to medicines in countries
hardest hit by HIV remains critical to
model that enables it to However, scientific progress, improvements
ViiV Healthcare. A multifaceted global
in public health programmes and
be flexible and responsive access to medicines approach covers
commitments to universal access have
135 countries including middle-income
to the needs of the HIV created improvements in the quality and
countries, low-income countries, least
availability of care.
community. developed countries and sub-Saharan
In recent years, with multiple new market Africa. In all low-income and least
entrants and an increasing number developed countries and in sub-Saharan
of generic competitors in the USA Africa, where 75% of all people with
and Europe, HIV treatment remains a HIV currently live, ViiV Healthcare
competitive and dynamic marketplace. offers royalty-free voluntary licences and
Turnover not-for-profit pricing. In middle-income
Performance
countries the approach is on a case-
£1.6bn
ViiV Healthcare, an independent by-case basis, taking into account the
company focused on HIV founded by local needs, with a tiered-pricing policy
Growth GSK and Pfizer, grew reported turnover based on Gross Domestic Product and
£m CER %
by 1% in 2011 to £1.6 billion. This the burden of the epidemic to improve
2011 1.6 1
performance was driven primarily by affordability.
2010 1.6 (3)
the growth brands, Epzicom/Kivexa
ViiV Healthcare has made great progress
and Selzentry/Celsentri. The strong
through its community partnerships,
performance of these brands was
connections and collaborations with the
Operating profit also complemented by the later than
broader HIV community. The Positive
anticipated entry of a generic form of
£824m Action Vida Digna programme in Central
Epivir in the USA, which softened the
America which tackles stigma and
expected decline in sales among ViiV
discrimination against communities
Growth Healthcare’s mature product portfolio.
vulnerable to HIV continues to grow, and
£m CER %
2011 824 (2) In 2011 sales of Epzicom/Kivexa grew by covered five additional countries.
12% to £617 million. Sales of Selzentry/
2010 851 (21) In the USA, the Positive Action Southern
Celsentri were £110 million, a growth
Initiative was extended to a total of
of 39% over 2010. This was driven by
eight states. Additionally, in support of
Breakdown of turnover 2011 increasing early-line use in the USA and the global effort to reduce mother-to-
broader uptake of genotypic tropism
child transmission of HIV by 2015, ViiV
7 1 testing in Europe. Expansion for Selzentry/ Healthcare has broadened the reach and
6 Celsentri also continued in other regions, scope of donations for its Positive Action
with a first-line usage launch in Japan and
for Children Fund (PACF) (see ‘Responsible
5 2 market authorisation in Russia.
business’ on page 44).
4 3 This expansion reflects an important
strategic focus for ViiV Healthcare in
international markets – all countries
Growth excluding Europe and North America –
£m CER %
where growth continues to build at 6%.
1 Combivir 322 (10)
2 Epivir 110 (3) A key focus for this region has been
3 Epzicom/Kivexa 617 12 to establish and strengthen local
4 Lexiva 142 (7)
partnerships. An example of this is our
5 Selzentry 110 39
partnership with JSC Binnopharm to
6 Trizivir 126 (11)
deliver local secondary manufacturing
7 Other 142 (6)
of a number of ViiV Healthcare
anti-retroviral products in Russia.27 GSK Annual Report 2011
1. Grow a diversified global business continued
Sales performance
We have been disclosing A reconciliation of reported turnover to underlying turnover, which excludes pandemic
products, Avandia and Valtrex is set out below. We believe this underlying measure
both reported turnover
assists shareholders in gaining a clearer understanding of our turnover performance
growth and underlying and prospects because of the size and nature of the loss of sales of those products.
growth, which shows 2011 2010 Growth
£m £m CER%
more clearly the Group turnover 27,387 28,392 (3)
Pandemic products, Avandia and Valtrex (507) (2,285)
operational performance Underlying Group turnover 26,880 26,107 4
of the business. 2011 2010 Growth
£m £m CER%
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines turnover 22,192 23,385 (4)
Pandemic products, Avandia and Valtrex (507) (2,285)
Underlying Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines turnover 21,685 21,100 4
2011 2010 Growth
£m £m CER%
Pharmaceuticals turnover 18,695 19,059 (1)
Pandemic products, Avandia and Valtrex (489) (1,093)
Underlying Pharmaceuticals turnover 18,206 17,966 2
2011 2010 Growth
£m £m CER%
Vaccines turnover 3,497 4,326 (19)
Pandemic products (18) (1,192)
Underlying Vaccines turnover 3,479 3,134 11
Sales of these products by geographic region and segment were:
Emerging Other trading
USA Europe Markets Asia Pacific Japan and unallocated Total
2011 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Pandemic products 2 13 – 12 11 7 45
Avandia 91 (3) 16 6 – 13 123
Valtrex 72 48 31 35 147 6 339
Emerging Other trading
USA Europe Markets Asia Pacific Japan and unallocated Total
2010 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Pandemic products 44 494 227 25 437 86 1,313
Avandia 237 88 42 24 – 49 440
Valtrex 252 68 28 43 133 8 53228 GSK Annual Report 2011
Strategic review Our strategy for growth
2 Deliver more
products of value
Overview
We have changed our R&D organisation so that it is better able to develop
and sustain an industry-leading pipeline of products that offer valuable
improvements in treatments for patients and healthcare providers.
We have increased the level of externalisation of our research, allowing us
to access new areas of science and to share the risk of development with our
partners. We have also made decisions earlier around pipeline progressions,
so that only those medicines that we believe will be significantly differentiated
from existing therapies are progressed. We are ensuring our early stage research
investments are made where the science suggests there is greatest opportunity.
We have created smaller, more agile groups of scientists who are accountable
for progressing their projects through discovery and development.
All of this has been underpinned with a focus on improving the rates of
return in R&D and being more rigourous in how we allocate investment
across pharmaceutical, vaccine and consumer healthcare R&D.
Progress
We are confident that we have the right model to improve R&D productivity
and returns.
Over the past four years we have had 16 new drugs and vaccines approved
in the USA, which is more than any of our peers.
We have sustained a significant late-stage pipeline of around 30 assets, and
signs from our recent review of discovery research gives us confidence that
we can replenish this pipeline on an ongoing basis.
+ 29 – 3729 GSK Annual Report 2011
Priorities and progress
Contribution to sales of new products
+ 54
How we performed
£2.5bn
Total sales from those products
launched over the past five years,
excluding pandemic vaccine, grew 2010: £1.7bn
by 47% in 2011.
Investment in R&D
+ 30 – 33
How we performed
The proportion of investment in our
late-stage portfolio continues to
grow, while total R&D expenditure
remains relatively flat.
New product approvals
+ 54
How we performed
In 2011, we gained product
approvals in the USA for Benlysta,
Potiga and Horizant.
Improving returns on R&D
+
Sales of new Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines products
Growth
£bn CER %
2011 2.5 47
2010 1.7 36
2009 1.3 55
Pharmaceuticals R&D expenditure
£3.2bn
£bn
2011 Discovery 0.9 Development 1.7 Other 0.6 3.2
2010 1.0 1.5 0.8 3.3 2010: £3.3bn
2009 1.0 1.6 0.7 3.3
New product approvals in the USA
No. 9
2011 3
2010 1 new drugs and vaccines
2009 5 approved in USA in last
3 years
30
Projected rate of return How we performed
12%
% We are encouraged by our progress
2011 12 in projected rate of return from our
investment in R&D and we are on 2010: 11%
2009 11
track to reach our long-term goal
of 14%.30 GSK Annual Report 2011
Strategic review 2. Deliver more products of value continued
Investment in R&D
Research and Our primary goal in R&D is to develop Costs incurred at each stage are carefully
innovative new medicines safely and managed to maximise the likely future
development is critical
efficiently. We are concentrating on return, consistent with our overall
to ensuring we have a developing new medicines that will offer objective of increasing our IRR from
significant improvements over existing R&D activities from its current level. The
sustainable business, and treatment options and will therefore returns generated are, however, primarily
provide value to both patients and those determined by the eventual commercial
that we can continue
who pay for the medicines. impact of new products as they achieve
to offer new medicines, regulatory approval and are launched.
More than 12,500 people work in R&D,
vaccines and consumer with the majority based in our large R&D The start of 2011 marked the beginning
centres in the UK, USA, Spain, Belgium of a critical two-year period for our
products that can help
and China. pharmaceuticals and vaccines pipeline.
people live longer and By the end of 2012, we expect to have
We split our R&D budget between
reported Phase III data on 15 late-stage
healthier lives. Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and Consumer assets. We discuss the progress of this
Healthcare. We aim to allocate R&D
in the following pages. Details of our
expenditure consistently across each
late-stage development pipeline, made up
of these areas. Levels of investment
Highlights are based on where we see the best of both pharmaceutical and vaccine assets,
are set out on pages 36 and 37 with a full
• Data received for nine out of 15 opportunities in both the market and pipeline chart on pages 235 to 238 and
the science, rather than as a fixed
Phase III assets on our website.
proportion of sales.
• Total R&D investment held constant Rate of return
• Rate of return on R&D investment rises The pharmaceuticals and vaccines
discovery and development process is We remain focused on improving
long, expensive and uncertain and it is returns on investment in R&D. In 2010
not possible to predict which projects we became the first major pharmaceutical
R&D expenditure allocation in 2011* will succeed or fail. The risks inherent in company to publish an internal rate
the R&D process are described more fully of return (IRR) on R&D investment,
3 1 in the ‘Risk factors’ section, under ‘Risk to indicate the value being realised
that R&D will not deliver commercially from our investment choices within
2
successful products’ on page 72. the R&D organisation.
In 2011 our R&D expenditure before In early 2010, our estimated rate of
major restructuring was £3.9 billion. return on the investment made in our
In monetary terms, this amount has recently launched and late-stage pipeline
remained relatively flat for the past three was approximately 11%. We have now
£m years. However, we have been working to updated this analysis and calculate that
1 Pharmaceuticals 3,160 reduce fixed costs through rationalisation the rate of return has increased to 12%
2 Vaccines 599 of our infrastructure and reinvest some on an equivalent basis. We are on track
3 Consumer Healthcare 153 of the surplus back into discovery and to deliver our long-term goal to improve
* before major restructuring development research. We are also returns to around 14%.
shifting the balance of our spending from
This projected rate of return includes
early stage projects to fund our growing
products launched from 1 January 2009
late stage pipeline. Our R&D expenditure
and compounds in Phases IIb and III of
is discussed in the sections that follow in
the development process. The calculation
respect of our three businesses and in the
is based on actual sales from 2009 to 2011
Financial review on page 56.
and forecast sales for the relevant products
We allocate our R&D investment with up to 2032, adjusted to reflect expected
reference to the potential returns failure rates, which are broadly in line
available from the target therapeutic with standard industry failure rates.
markets and the technical and The cost base used in this calculation
commercial risks associated with products comprises an estimate of attributable R&D
in the pipeline. Those factors are reviewed costs and actual and projected milestone
at each phase of the development process payments where appropriate. Estimated
and are central in the decision to proceed profit margins, capital investment and
to the next stage. working capital requirements are factored
into the calculation, based on our
historical performance.31 GSK Annual Report 2011
2. Deliver more products of value continued
Pharmaceuticals R&D
To be successful over In 2011, our Pharmaceuticals R&D In 2007, all therapy areas were reviewed to
expenditure was £3.2 billion before identify the most scientifically promising
the long-term we need
major restructuring. More than 10,000 areas for drug discovery and to move
the investments we are people work in our Pharmaceuticals the organisation from a static culture
R&D business, and we view our research of reinvestment in existing areas. As a
making in our pipeline projects as early stage (discovery) or late result of this therapy area rebalancing
stage (development). process, we changed our business model
to lead to new medicines
in 2008, moving away from industrial-
In 2011 we launched three new
that will be valued by sized therapy groups to smaller, more agile
medicines: Benlysta for the treatment of
and focused Discovery Performance Units
patients and those who systemic lupus erythematosus, Horizant
(DPUs) of 5–70 scientists. Each DPU works
for the treatment of moderate-to-severe
pay for the treatments. on a particular disease or pathway, and is
restless legs syndrome and Trobalt/Potiga,
responsible for potential new medicines
an adjunctive treatment for epilepsy.
through to early stage clinical trials (up to
Since 2008, we have had 16 new medicines the completion of Phase lla).
Highlights
and vaccines approved in the USA, 11 of
As part of this new model, DPUs were
• Three newly approved medicines in which were new molecular entities. This given their own budgets and a three-year
Benlysta, Horizant and Trobalt is more than any other pharmaceutical window to complete specific tasks. The
company. This year was an active period
• Early stage progress reviewed business plans of each DPU identified
of late-state pipeline activity, with data for
• Seven new collaborations signed specific targets and investment across
nine late-stage medicines announced. In
multiple years. The plans also included
2012, we anticipate we will have sufficient
opportunities for collaboration with
data in-house to file for: Promacta for
Pharmaceutical R&D investment external organisations such as large and
hepatitis C, Relovair for COPD, and our
in 2011 small companies and academia. Our
MEK inhibitor, a new potential treatment
internal R&D expertise gives us a strong
for melanoma.
1 basis in identifying and forming these
3 The year also saw some failure, with the collaborations which in drug discovery
termination of otelixizumab in Type are typically in-licensing – when we
1 diabetes, but overall the balance of acquire ownership of an asset for further
2 progression versus failure was positive. development and commercialisation
In 2012, we expect to complete – or option-based – when we have an
development programmes for another exclusive opportunity to license the asset
five late-stage assets and indications. depending on its performance at different
£m development stages.
1 Discovery 853 While our Pharmaceuticals R&D
2 Development 1,720 spending has remained relatively flat, we The original business plans of each DPU
3 F acilities and central support 587 have been shifting our investment from were initially reviewed by the Discovery
discovery to development to reflect the Investment Board (DIB), a panel created to
increasing number of late-stage assets advise on investment decisions. The DIB
in our portfolio. The proportion of total evaluated the proposals, identified areas
expenditure made in development of the for improvement and suggested agreed
late-stage portfolio continues to grow progress targets and investment levels.
from 49% in 2009 to 54% in 2011. Membership of the DIB comprises senior
management from R&D and commercial
Discovering new medicines
and external individuals with expertise in
Our early stage R&D (drug discovery) areas such as life science investment and
seeks to identify the biological targets payer perspectives. It is chaired by our SVP
involved with the development of of Medicines Discovery and Development.
diseases, and then to create small
The three-year mark for most DPUs was
molecules or biopharmaceuticals that
reached in 2011, and progress of all 38
interact with these disease targets,
DPUs was reviewed by the DIB. Our
ultimately leading to new medicines.
approach has been driven by assessments
The wide range of scientific discoveries
of potential returns on investment,
makes it essential that we are highly
scientific quality and opportunity.
selective in where we invest our drug
discovery resources. We focus on those
areas we consider most likely to lead to
significant medical advances.32 GSK Annual Report 2011
Strategic review 2. Deliver more products of value continued
Pharmaceuticals R&D continued
Early stage investment
Just as start-up companies have to
make a ‘pitch’ to venture capitalists
for funding, Discovery Performance
Units (DPUs) at GSK have to
demonstrate their value by having
their business plans reviewed by the
Discovery Investment Board (DIB). While our budget has
In 2011 the DPUs presented their remained relatively flat,
progress against three-year plans
to the DIB. Funds were allocated we have been shifting
based on the scientific quality and our spend from discovery
opportunity and potential returns on
investment. As a result, some DPUs to development to reflect
will grow, others will shrink or close the increasing number
and new DPUs will be created.
of late-stage assets in
our portfolio.”
>50
External discovery
engines
In 2011 we had more than
50 external discovery engines,
compared to 17 in 2007. This
enhances our discovery efforts by
opening up new areas of science
to us and sharing our risk with our
partners. We hope it will reduce
the time to get a breakthrough
into the clinic. uaennobrahC
erreiP33 GSK Annual Report 2011
The overall review was positive. This The Portfolio Investment Board (PIB) The Scientific Review Board (SRB) is
has led to new investment allocations in has replaced pipeline governance boards the governing body accountable for the
discovery research and as a result, four in assessing the technical, commercial scientific assessment of the R&D portfolio
new DPUs have been created and three and investment case for each project to support investment decisions made
have been closed. Of the remaining DPUs, to progress in development. The PIB is at the PIB. The SRB will establish a view
six have received increased investment co-chaired by the Chairman of R&D on the overall scientific promise of the
and five have had investment decreased. and the President of North America asset; development plan to deliver the
Pharmaceuticals, and includes the heads asset; cost effectiveness of the clinical
Across R&D, we form alliances with
of each pharmaceutical region along with plan; opportunities and risks to the likely
external organisations to accelerate the
the head of global manufacturing. product profile; and gaps where evidence
discovery of new medicines as well as
is missing or remains uncertain.
to share scientific understanding and The PIB is accountable for investment
ultimately to improve patient care. decisions and funding allocation across There are two other important
We signed seven new collaborations all late-stage Pharmaceutical R&D governance boards in R&D. The
in 2011, taking us to over 50 alliances Medicines Discovery and Development, Technology Investment Board makes
with external groups to complement Biopharm R&D, Oncology, Stiefel, Rare investment decisions for new platform
our internal discovery units. Diseases and Emerging Markets R&D. technologies and licencing or options-
This allows investment decisions to based collaborations up to the point of
No individual discovery project has
be made in a holistic way, ensuring a entry into clinical trials. The New Product
annual expenditure of more than 10%
balance and diversity of assets of differing Supply Board is the governing body
of the total annual R&D expenditure.
risk profile, novelty, opportunity, accountable for the technical feasibility
Decisions on investments continue to
development cost and potential to be and infrastructure assessments covering
be made where the science presents a
reimbursed by payers. all aspects of the physical product and
compelling case and there remains a
supply chain.
need for new treatments. Projects are reviewed by the PIB at three
key decision points: commit to medicine GSK’s Chief Medical Officer, as Chair of
Developing medicines for patients
development, commit to Phase III and the Global Safety Board, is accountable
A compound that advances into late-stage commit to file and launch. Funding for overseeing all major decisions
R&D (development) – typically after is generally allocated up to the next regarding patient safety. The Global
Phase IIa – will undergo much larger scale key decision point, typically between Safety Board is responsible for approving
studies in humans to investigate further two and four years ahead. The PIB also pivotal studies and investigating any
its efficacy and safety. At the same time, carries out an annual late-stage funding issues related to patient safety arising
we work to optimise the compound’s review, where investment in all projects during the development programme
physical properties and its formulation is reviewed, adjusted if necessary and and post-launch. Information from GSK
so that it can be produced efficiently prioritised. No individual late-stage clinical trials is available at the Clinical
and in sufficient quantities through the project has incurred annual expenditure Study Register on GSK’s website and at
manufacturing process. We then convert of more than 10% of the total annual www.clinicaltrials.gov.
the results of these activities into a file R&D expenditure.
In 2011 we announced that we were
for submission to regulatory agencies.
Governance developing a Global Regulatory Board
Medicine Development Teams are to enhance compliance with company-
Changes have been made to the R&D
small units of 6–10 people who have wide standards, make regulatory services
governance structure to ensure clearer
responsibility for a compound through more efficient and agile, and further align
accountabilities. The oversight of strategic
the later stages of development to filing capabilities with business needs at global
issues and overall budget management
with the regulatory agencies. There are and local levels. This will be led by the
across R&D is owned by the R&D
about 30 assets in late-stage development, new role of Chief Regulatory Officer.
Executive team. DIB and PIB control
comprising more than 50 individual
investment decisions in early and late-
projects.
stage R&D, as described previously.
We also actively seek opportunities to
add products to our late-stage portfolio
through alliances with other companies.
For late-stage assets, these typically
take the form of in-licensing deals or
co-promotion arrangements with other
companies and are most likely to be
aligned to existing areas of therapy
expertise or investment.34 GSK Annual Report 2011
Strategic review 2. Deliver more products of value continued
Vaccines and
Consumer R&D
Our vaccines R&D is We invested nearly £600 million in In vaccines, our R&D investment has
vaccines R&D in 2011 and we have increased by 62% since 2008, in line with
centred on discovering
more than 1,600 scientists working our investment in high growth areas.
and developing on the development of new vaccines.
Discovery research
prophylactic and We currently have around 20 vaccines The discovery and development of a new
in development for a range of diseases,
vaccine is a complex process requiring
therapeutic vaccines to from malaria to tuberculosis and
long-term investment. Typically it takes
cancer. We currently have four vaccine
protect people against 10–12 years to develop a new vaccine.
candidates in late stage development:
infectious diseases, with trials in zoster, malaria, quadrivalent Vaccine discovery begins by identifying
influenza vaccine and our therapeutic new antigens, which are specific
cancers and chronic
vaccine MAGE-A3. We also have two structures on pathogens (viruses, bacteria
disorders. vaccine candidates in regulatory filing or parasites) or on cancer cells that are
against meningitis (MenHibrix and recognised by the immune system.
Nimenrix) in the USA and Europe. We then produce these pathogens in
yeast, bacteria or mammalian cells and
The highlight of 2011 for vaccines R&D
genetically manipulate them so that they
has been the results from our adjuvanted
Key highlights malaria vaccine candidate (RTS,S) in can be purified and formulated into a
vaccine. It is the antigen that creates the
a Phase III study conducted in seven
• Filings in USA and Europe for body’s immune response.
countries in Africa. After 25 years of work,
MenHibrix and Nimenrix
we presented promising results from the We often work with academia and
• Phase III data announced on initial Phase III data on this candidate the biotech industry to identify these
malaria vaccine
(see Milestone in malaria on page 35). new vaccine antigens. In some cases,
formulation of the vaccine into clinical
Our R&D effort is focused on the
lots involves mixing antigens with GSK
development of new prophylactic and
proprietary adjuvant systems.
therapeutic vaccines, alongside the
lifecycle management of vaccines already
on the market.
Consumer Healthcare R&D
More than 600 people in the UK, USA, Examples of innovation in 2011 included: developed to drive a differentiating
India and China are dedicated to our • In Oral healthcare, the business speed-of-action claim aimed at
R&D efforts in Consumer Healthcare. launched a new breakthrough in alleviating stronger pain.
We invested £153 million in 2011, up dental care through Sensodyne We are now implementing new
from £124 million in 2008. Repair & Protect. The Repair & Protect programmes to increase the flow, pace
Developing a sustainable flow of new, formulation is the first everyday and value of our innovation portfolio,
scientifically-differentiated products – fluoride toothpaste to contain aligned with the new fast-moving
our ‘innovation portfolio’ – is a critical patented NovaMin technology. consumer healthcare model we are
element of our Consumer Healthcare • In our Nutrition category we developing.
strategy. These can include new expanded the products offered in
This model aims to combine industry-
technologies and formulations as well our Maxinutrition range to include
leading scientific capability with
as product line extensions. We also Maximilk Chocolate and Strawberry
superior consumer insights to develop
carry out ongoing research to assess and three new flavours of Cyclone
a value-driving global pipeline
the efficacy and value of our products in one muscle growth shake. GSK
across our four newly formed global
so that we can make validated claims acquired Maxinutrition, which makes
categories: Oral health, Wellness,
to consumers. products based around protein-
Nutrition and Skin health.
enhanced functional nutritionals,
Our innovation products launched
at the beginning of the year. We have also established a new
in the past three years contributed
sales of £821 million in 2011, 16% • I n OTC, we continued to roll out global regulatory structure whereby
of Consumer Healthcare sales. Key Panadol Advance across 28 markets local regulatory staff report centrally,
contributing products included and launched Panadol Extra Advance enabling us to drive more rapid and
Sensodyne Repair & Protect, in the UK. Both these brands contain efficient roll-out of innovation.
Sensodyne Rapid Relief, Horlicks Optizorb – a superior patented
Biscuits and Panadol Extra Advance. dissolution technology which we have35 GSK Annual Report 2011
Vaccine manufacturers use adjuvants to
Milestone in malaria
improve the specific immune system’s
response to antigens contained in vaccines.
We have been innovating in the area of After 25 years of work, a
adjuvant systems for more than 20 years. milestone in the development
of our malaria vaccine candidate
Our proprietary adjuvant systems RTS,S was reached in 2011 with the
combine adjuvants to give the most publication of Phase III data that
appropriate immune response to a showed the vaccine provided young
specific antigen. Our expertise allows us African children with significant
to understand which combinations of protection against clinical and severe
antigen and adjuvant system can help malaria with an acceptable safety
the body mobilise the most effective and tolerability profile. Trials are
immunological pathway, and so provide continuing, and data on infants aged
maximum protection against specific 6–12 weeks are expected by the end
diseases in targeted populations. of 2012. Read more in our Corporate
Candidate vaccines are usually a Responsibility Report.
combination of several antigens, and the
final composition of the vaccine (antigens
and adjuvant) may change over time.
The preclinical research usually takes two
to five years and failure in the discovery
process is relatively low. Failures are
more likely in later stage clinical trials,
where around 30% of candidates can
be expected to fail.
As well as the discovery of new vaccines in
early development projects, R&D supports
late-stage projects such as the inclusion of
new antigens in existing vaccines to create
new generation vaccines.
Traditionally, vaccines have been
used to prevent illness. However, we
are pioneering a different approach
with our Antigen Specific Cancer
Immunotherapies (ASCIs). This approach
is designed to programme the body’s
immune system to fight existing diseases
and so represents a new treatment
model as a therapeutic vaccine. We are There are five key decision points in the The board has an overall view on all
evaluating the ASCI concept against a vaccine development process: commit projects, from early to advanced projects.
variety of tumour types. to research (decide to invest resources); The VDCB’s core members come from
early clinical development; commit to across the organisation. The VDCB
Governance
Phase III; registration and launch; and recommendation to progress a project is
In 2011 we revised the organisation of commit to life-cycle management where submitted to the VIB.
vaccine discovery and development we consider whether to pursue a next-
The VIB has the final decision on whether
teams, to simplify the infrastructure, generation product or to extend the
to invest in a project, taking into account
focus on timely decision-making and viability of the product.
the scientific and commercial perspectives
enhance clarity and accountability.
Oversight of these key decisions rests with reviewed by the VDCB. The VIB evaluates
Vaccines research and development are led
two bodies: the Vaccine Development the public health benefit, business
by Project Teams and Vaccine Leadership
and Commercial Board (VDCB) and opportunity, development costs and
Teams, which are responsible for the day-
the Vaccine Investment Board (VIB). risks, the project timing and the overall
to-day progress, including identifying and
The VDCB reviews the research project evolution of our portfolio of vaccines.
developing new products.
strategy and advises on its scientific, The VIB is also responsible for assessing
technical and commercial feasibility. the overall fit of the project in our
vaccines portfolio.
sppihW
moT36 GSK Annual Report 2011
Strategic review 2. Deliver more products of value continued
Late stage pipeline
summary
We have a full and diverse product development pipeline. We highlight here our
projects comprising new chemical entities, biological entities or vaccines, new
combinations and new indications for existing compounds that are in Phase III, have
been filed for approval or have been recently approved. The most advanced status is
shown and includes 2011 and 2012 approvals.
7 3 5
assets moving into phase III approvals in USA or EU development or registration
from January 2011 terminated
• 1 605786† for Crohn’s disease • B enlysta (belimumab)† for systemic • a lmorexant† for primary insomnia
lupus erythematosus (USA and EU)
• d olutegravir (S/GSK1394572)† + • o telixizumab† for type 1 diabetes
abacavir sulphate + lamivudine • T robalt/Potiga (retigabine/ezogabine)†
• R evolade/Promacta (eltrombopag)†
for HIV infections for epilepsy, partial seizures (USA
for chronic liver disease induced
and EU)
• dabrafenib (2118436) for metastatic thrombocytopaenia
melanoma • H orizant (gabapentin enacarbil)†
• V otrient (pazopanib) + Tykerb/Tyverb
for restless legs syndrome (USA)
• trametinib (1120212)† for metastatic (lapatinib) for inflammatory breast
melanoma cancer
• 5 73719 + vilanterol† for COPD • A vodart (dutasteride) for reduction in
the risk of prostate cancer
• 2 402968† for Duchenne muscular
dystrophy
• 6 85698 for asthma
Key:
Phase III
Large comparative study (compound versus
placebo and/or established treatment) in
patients to establish clinical benefit
and safety.
Filed
Following successful Phase III trials, we file
the product for approval by the regulatory
authorities.
Approval
Only when approval is granted can we begin
to market the medicine or vaccine.
Our full pipeline is on pages 235 to 238 and
on our website.
† In-licence or other alliance relationship with a third party37 GSK Annual Report 2011
Phase III/registration Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines pipeline summary
Therapeutic area Compound Indication Phase III Filed Approved
Biopharmaceuticals albiglutide† type 2 diabetes •
Arzerra† (ofatumumab) chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, first line therapy •
Arzerra† (ofatumumab) diffuse large B cell lymphoma (relapsed patients) •
Arzerra† (ofatumumab) follicular lymphoma (refractory & relapsed patients) •
Benlysta† (belimumab) systemic lupus erythematosus (s.c.) •
Benlysta† (belimumab) systemic lupus erythematosus (i.v.) •
Xgeva† (denosumab) bone metastatic disease •
Cardiovascular & metabolic darapladib† atherosclerosis •
Immuno-inflammation 1605786† Crohn’s disease •
Infectious diseases Relenza† i.v. (zanamivir) influenza •
Neurosciences 587124 (IPX066)† Parkinson’s disease •
Horizant † (gabapentin enacarbil) post-herpetic neuralgia •
Horizant † (gabapentin enacarbil) restless legs syndrome •
Trobalt/Potiga (retigabine/
ezogabine)† epilepsy, partial seizures •
Oncology dabrafenib (2118436) metastatic melanoma •
trametinib (1120212)† metastatic melanoma •
Revolade/Promacta
(eltrombopag)† hepatitis C induced thrombocytopaenia •
Tyverb/Tykerb (lapatinib) breast cancer, adjuvant therapy •
Tyverb/Tykerb (lapatinib) gastric cancer •
Tyverb/Tykerb (lapatinib) head & neck squamous cell carcinoma (resectable disease) •
Votrient (pazopanib) ovarian cancer, maintenance therapy •
Votrient (pazopanib) renal cell cancer, adjuvant therapy •
Tyverb/Tykerb (lapatinib) metastatic breast cancer, in combination with trastuzumab •
Votrient (pazopanib) sarcoma •
Respiratory & 573719 COPD •
immuno-inflammation 573719 + vilanterol† COPD •
685698 asthma •
vilanterol† COPD •
Relovair (vilanterol† + 685698) asthma •
Relovair (vilanterol† + 685698) COPD •
Paediatric vaccines Mosquirix (Malaria RTS,S) malaria prophylaxis (plasmodium falciparum) •
MenHibrix (Hib-MenCY-TT) Neisseria meningitis groups C & Y & Haemophilus influenzae
type b disease prophylaxis •
Nimenrix (MenACWY-TT) Neisseria meningitis groups A, C, W & Y disease prophylaxis •
Other vaccines Zoster herpes zoster prevention •
Flu (pre-) pandemic pre-pandemic & pandemic influenza prophylaxis •
Flu vaccine seasonal influenza prophylaxis •
Pumarix pandemic influenza prophylaxis •
Antigen Specific Cancer MAGE-A3 treatment of melanoma •
Immunotherapeutic (ASCI) MAGE-A3 treatment of non-small cell lung cancer •
Rare diseases 2402968† Duchenne muscular dystrophy •
2696273† adenosine deaminase severe combined immune deficiency •
migalastat HCl† Fabry disease •
Dermatology Duac low dose acne vulgaris •
Sorilux mild to moderate scalp psoriasis •
tazarotene foam acne vulgaris •
HIV dolutegravir (S/GSK1349572)† HIV infections •
dolutegravir (S/GSK1349572)† +
abacavir sulphate + lamivudine HIV infections •
† In-licence or other alliance relationship with a third party38 GSK Annual Report 2011
Strategic review Our strategy for growth
3 Simplify the
operating model
Overview
As our business continues to change shape, we are transforming our
operating model to reduce its complexity and improve our efficiency.
Over the past three years we have implemented a global restructuring
programme designed to deliver significant savings to support investment
in our higher growth markets as well as offset significant pressures. The
savings have been derived through improvements to our manufacturing
operations, consolidation and streamlining of our support functions and
increased efficiencies in R&D.
Progress
To date, our restructuring programme has taken £2.2 billion of annual costs
out of the business. During 2011 we identified further annual savings of
approximately £600 million. This brings the total annual savings expected
from this programme to £2.8 billion by 2014.
Our restructuring programme has also allowed us to reduce spending in
our global functions by 23% since 2008. In our aim to streamline our
organisation, we have significantly reduced our footprint in manufacturing
and Pharmaceuticals R&D since 2006.
+ 39 – 4139 GSK Annual Report 2011
Priorities and progress
Restructuring savings
How we performed
£2.2bn
The restructuring programme we
introduced in 2008 continues to
deliver savings. It is expected to annual savings
cost £4.85 billion and realise annual 2010: £1.7bn
savings of £2.8 billion by the time it
is complete in 2014.
R&D footprint
How we performed
We have been making
Pharmaceuticals R&D operations
more efficient by centralising our
activities and reducing fixed costs
where possible.
+
£bn
2011 2.2
2010 1.7
2009 1.0
40
000m2
2011 295
2010 388
2009 434
Manufacturing footprint
How we performed
We are seeking to create a
streamlined global manufacturing
function. We exited four sites in
the year and added one through a
business acquisition.
+
Support functions costs
How we performed
We have reduced our support
functions costs by 23% since 2008.
41
+ 41
£bn
2011 1.6
2010 1.7
2009 2.0
No.
2011 74
2010 77
2009 78
+ 40
Annual savings
Pharmaceuticals R&D footprint
295000m2
R&D footprint
2010: 388,000m2
Support functions costs
£1.6bn
2010: £1.7bn
Pharmaceuticals and Consumer Healthcare manufacturing sites
74
sites
2010: 7740 GSK Annual Report 2011
Strategic review 3. Simplify the operating model continued
Reducing cost and
increasing efficiency
We have made substantial The transformation of our operating The biggest cost savings from this
model to reduce costs and complexity and programme have been generated in
progress in our objective
improve efficiency continued in 2011. our manufacturing, R&D and support
to simplify our operations The significant savings we have generated function organisations.
through our restructuring programme
and reduce inefficiencies. have been reinvested back into the Within R&D, we have focused on reducing
fixed costs through rationalisation
business and used to offset the pressure
of our infrastructure footprint. Our
resulting from the loss of sales to generics
Pharmaceutical R&D footprint has been
in the USA and Europe.
cut by more than 45% over the past three
Restructuring our business years from 494,000 m2 to 295,000 m2.
A key element of the re-shaping of our Over the same period our manufacturing
business has been implemented through organisation has achieved annual
Highlights our global Operational Excellence (OE) savings of approximately £600
• Annual restructuring savings of restructuring programme, which was million through restructuring and
initiated at the end of 2007. rationalising its network, streamlining
£2.2 billion now achieved
the operating model and improving
• Global support function spending We have met our original target of
site performance. Since 2006, we have
down 23% compared with 2008 £2.2 billion in annual cost savings.
exited 19 manufacturing sites, including
During 2011, we identified additional
selling or closing four factories in 2011.
annual savings of approximately
This has reduced the total number of
£600 million, bringing total annual
manufacturing sites to 74.
savings expected from the programme
to £2.8 billion by 2014. The programme
is now expected to cost £4.85 billion.
Reduced costs through
recycling
A pilot project to recycle waste
plastic is on track to provide up to £1
million in carbon rebates and reduced
shipping costs next year, at the same
time as cutting our carbon footprint.
The project, which we kicked off in
2011 at our UK Ribena bottling plant,
converts post-industrial plastic waste
from other sites into material that can
be used to make new bottles.
Our Coleford site used about 4,300
tonnes of rPET (recycled polyethylene
terephthalate) last year in the
bottling of Ribena. At the same time,
manufacturing sites in the UK and
France were producing about 1,150
tonnes of waste material suitable for
recycling through the disposal of PET
trays used in the delivery of materials.
Initial results suggest that we can
reduce our raw materials for Ribena
bottles by 27% annually. In addition,
we anticipate a cut of up to 3,000
tonnes of annual carbon dioxide
emissions, through reductions in
shipping costs and material use.
skoorB
egroeG41 GSK Annual Report 2011
The third key source of savings from
Global Manufacturing and Supply
the OE programme has been in global
support functions, such as Finance, HR,
IT and Facilities. The reporting for these With a network of 74 sites in 32 In 2011, we announced our intention
functions was centralised in 2008/9 to countries, Global Manufacturing to build a new manufacturing
allow for better budgetary oversight and and Supply (GMS) is responsible for facility in the UK for the supply of
control. Significant savings have since producing and delivering medicines and biopharmaceutical products. Subject
been generated, including through greater consumer products around the world. to the introduction of ‘patent box’
use of shared services and outsourcing. legislation by the UK Government in
More than 26,000 people work in
Within facilities, for example, we have 2012, this facility could be built at one
GMS, and its network of internal and
outsourced technical, workplace and of four existing GSK sites – Barnard
external manufacturing sites helps us
security to three global vendors (from 45) Castle or Ulverston in the north
compete in a large range of markets,
reducing costs by almost 20%. of England, or Irvine or Montrose
ensuring that patients and customers
in Scotland – representing an
Overall, support function costs have been receive quality products at fair prices. investment of several hundred
reduced by 23% compared with 2008. Our supply chain model is designed to million pounds.
A key objective of the OE programme is ensure the supply, quality and security
GMS has a comprehensive global
to release resources to invest behind our of all our products to every region of
anti-counterfeiting strategy and is an
growth strategy. A significant portion of the world, and we closely monitor
industry leader in anti-counterfeiting
the savings generated has, therefore, been the delivery of our products to ensure
packaging features such as holograms,
reinvested into business areas that offer that our customers are never out of
security seals and complex background
potential for future profitable growth, stock of the medicines and products
patterns that are difficult to
such as Emerging Markets, Vaccines and they need.
photocopy and scan.
Consumer Healthcare. Similarly, some
of the savings in R&D fixed costs have
been reinvested back into discovery and In part, this will be achieved through reducing the number of packs or ‘SKUs’
development research. the implementation of a ‘service delivery by 25% in Europe, 15% in Japan and up
model’, with more focused partnering to 24% in Emerging Markets. We are now
The balance of the savings have been
with GSK business units. Standardisation focused on standardising the remaining
used to offset the pressure on the
should increase productivity, as our pack formats to improve packaging
Group margin resulting from the loss of
businesses will have more time to focus on efficiency and costs.
significant sales in the USA and Europe
their operations and performance rather
to generics over the period. In addition, our manufacturing
than coordinating internal processes.
organisation is actively seeking to improve
We are conscious of the impact on Standardisation of data and systems
procurement processes and in particular
employees of the changes outlined should provide better decision-making
our purchasing of active ingredients,
above and we remain committed to information.
chemical intermediates, packaging
full consultation via internal forums and
A key enabler for the delivery of benefits components and part-finished and
with external groups where appropriate.
from CBS will be the enterprise-wide finished products. This is releasing further
Where possible we have attempted to
Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) cost efficiencies and allowing us to reduce
re-deploy affected employees to other
system. The significant investment we are working capital.
parts of the business.
making in the Global ERP programme
In our Consumer Healthcare business,
Focus on simplification over the next five years will enable CBS to
we are redesigning our supply chain to
create standard business processes, systems
Over the next few years, we plan to form an integrated, end-to-end process
and data to support the growth and
build on the infrastructure and footprint that is more aligned with our customers
change agenda across multiple businesses.
rationalisation already achieved to and the commercial operations of the
As part of the ERP programme we are
simplify our business further. business. This process is also being
converting country-based commercial
configured to support the high-growth
Following support function centralisation, IT systems to a single SAP IT system and
regions of emerging markets. These
in early 2011 we created a Core Business replacing numerous fragmented and non-
changes are expected to reduce cost
Services (CBS) group to direct further standardised applications.
and free-up working capital.
streamlining and economies of scale
In 2011 the system went live in Germany,
for those elements of our global support Our European pharmaceuticals and
marking the start of ERP deployment
functions where the services provided to vaccines supply chain has also been
across the whole of GSK.
our businesses can be standardised. redesigned to simplify operations and
In 2011, we implemented changes to our consolidate distribution locations to
The first year of CBS has delivered
supply chain processes. To help supply reduce inventory, increase service levels
promising early results, and we expect
chain efficiency we have significantly and cut operating costs.
to see further savings over the next
simplified our product portfolio by
three years.42 GSK Annual Report 2011
Strategic review
Our financial
architecture
One of our key objectives In 2011, we established a new financial We expect the Group’s core operating
architecture. This aligns our planning, margin to begin to improve gradually
has been to deliver
execution and performance measurement in 2012 with further improvement over
sustainable sales growth. in order to maximise financial returns the next two to three years. The rate
from our strategy. It is designed to drive and the extent of this will depend on
Our new financial improvements in our operating margin, the precise mix of our businesses and
greater financial efficiency and enhanced the delivery rate of our pipeline which
architecture is designed
cash conversion from the sales growth will drive sales growth in high margin
to enhance returns to we are focused on delivering. innovation-led markets.
shareholders from this This should drive stronger growth in In addition to improving the core
earnings per share and better free cash operating margin, enhancing our
strategy.
generation. The expected cash flow financial efficiency is also a key driver
and enhanced cash conversion is then of earnings and cash flow growth.
available for dividends, share buy-backs
In 2011 we reviewed how we manage
or for reinvestment in the business
our cash balances relative to our debt
depending on where returns are
portfolio and the sources of the debt that
most attractive.
we access. We intend to make a number
Sales growth of changes and believe that by taking
advantage of current interest rates as well
One of the key objectives of our strategy
as reducing our cash balances, we can
has been delivery of sustainable broadly
reduce our effective net interest cost.
sourced sales growth. While reported sales
As a result, our overall effective financing
fell by 3% in the year, over the last two
rate is expected to reduce to below 6%
years we have delivered average annual
by 2013.
underlying sales growth of 4%. As we
move into 2012 we expect underlying Tax is a second area where we have
sales growth to translate into reported opportunities to improve efficiency.
sales growth as the sales headwinds from The shape of the Group has changed
the loss of sales of Avandia, Valtrex and materially over recent years and by
pandemic products diminish. aligning our tax strategy more tightly
with that changing shape, we have
Operating leverage and financial
identified opportunities that will allow
efficiencies
us to reduce the tax rate down from
We also want to drive operating leverage approximately 27% at the beginning
and financial efficiencies in our business. of 2011 to approximately 25% by 2014.
In order to maximise the operating During 2011 we made good progress,
profit, earnings and cash generated reducing our tax rate to 26.2%
from our sales growth we remain (excluding the disposal of Quest).
focused on managing our cost base more
effectively and improving financial
efficiency throughout the organisation.43 GSK Annual Report 2011
Financial architecture to drive returns
Sales growth
+
EPS
Operating leverage
+ Focus on Focus on Returns to
returns returns shareholders
Financial efficiency
+
Free cash flow
Cash flow growth
Cash conversion Earnings and cash flow generation In 2011 we returned all of our free cash
flow to shareholders. We paid £3.4 billion
We also see significant opportunity to Sales growth, operational leverage, greater
in dividends, and our ordinary dividend
enhance cash conversion through greater financial efficiency and cash conversion,
grew 8% to 70p. In addition we bought
focus on cash generation and capital should together drive enhanced earnings
back £2.2 billion of shares as part of the
allocation. per share and free cash flow that will
long term programme we started last year.
support our objective of enhancing the
A particular focus is on the working We will also return the proceeds from the
returns to shareholders from our strategy.
capital programme. During 2011 we sale of our non-core North American OTC
reduced the cash conversion cycle from In 2012 free cash flow is expected to be brands to shareholders via a supplemental
221 to 210 days and working capital further enhanced as the cash charges dividend of 5p payable with the fourth
as a percentage of turnover from 23% associated with our long-standing quarter 2011 ordinary dividend.
to 21%. We are focused on delivering restructuring programme continue to
In 2012 we expect to deliver continued
further improvements in this cycle in decline. From 2013 free cash flow is also
dividend growth. In addition, given
the medium term. expected to benefit as the demand on
current market conditions, we intend to
cash to fund previously announced legal
repurchase £1–2 billion of shares.
settlements diminishes.
Reduction in working capital;
Measurement and reporting
cash conversion cycle Focus on return on investment and
returns to shareholders We have improved our financial reporting
Days to align it more closely with our financial
Cash generated is deployed to invest
2011 210 architecture. We are providing more
in our business and deliver returns to
data and insights into the progress we
2010 221 shareholders.
are making in each of our businesses
2009 244
We have improved our capital allocation and regions and on our progress against
process so that it is more consistently and the key drivers of operational and
rigorously based on return on investment financial efficiency. Starting in 2012 we
metrics, particularly cash flow return on are transitioning our reporting to a core
investment (CFROI). In doing this, we basis, enabling greater visibility of the
are able to benchmark opportunities for underlying performance of the business.
internal and external investment across
More details on the transition to core
the business more consistently, with the
reporting are provided on page 51.
returns available through share buyback
and other returns to shareholders.44 GSK Annual Report 2011
Strategic review
Responsible
business
We believe that being We recognise that the research, We recognise there are many barriers and
development, manufacture and sale obstacles on the path to better health
a responsible business
of our products can raise ethical issues, and we are committed to finding new
is good for GSK and and we aim to be open about how we and innovative ways of tackling them.
address these. We also understand that By working in partnership with others,
society. It helps us to it is important we communicate with by challenging the way things are and
the groups and individuals our business by being prepared to change the way we
create the products that
affects. We seek to understand their views do business, we aim to find innovative
patients and healthcare and be transparent about any setbacks solutions that create value for society as
we experience, as well as the progress well as our shareholders and allow us to
payers need and value.
we have made. be a successful, sustainable business.
It also helps us to operate We are growing our business through Access to healthcare in the developing world
efficiently, to gain the a culture that ensures all our decisions There are no easy solutions to the
are guided by our values: commit to
challenge of providing sustainable access
trust of our stakeholders transparency; show respect for people;
to healthcare in developing countries.
demonstrate the highest integrity in our
and to foster the right Poverty is the single biggest barrier.
conduct and be patient-focused.
In many countries people do not have
conditions for the growth
To grow our business in a sustainable and enough food or access to a supply of clean
of our business. responsible way, we focus on four areas: water. They also cannot access hospitals
or clinics that provide professional help
• Health for all – helping improve and treatments. These challenges make it
people’s health and well-being all the more important that we contribute
regardless of where they live or their where we can.
ability to pay
We are committed to playing a full part
• Our people & communities – working to
in addressing the healthcare challenges
support the development of our people
of the developing world by taking an
and communities around the world
innovative, responsible and sustainable
• Our behaviour – behaving in an open approach. GSK is making a contribution
and honest manner in all that we do, to developing country healthcare in a
guided by our values number of areas. These include:
• Our planet – growing our business • tiered pricing of our vaccines and
while protecting the natural resources medicines and capped prices in Least
we all need for the future. Developed Countries (LDCs)
We have a Board Committee, chaired • investing in R&D that targets diseases
by the Chairman which regularly particularly affecting the developing
review’s the company’s CR policy and world
performance. More details are given in
• being flexible with our intellectual
the Corporate Responsibility Committee
property and pursuing an open
Report on page 103.
innovation strategy
More on our approach to these key areas
• community investment activities
follows. We also publish information on
No. 1 our approach and performance in our and partnerships that foster effective
healthcare and capacity building
Corporate Responsibility Report which
can be found on our website. Our 2011 • seeking innovative partnerships
Report will be published in March 2012. and solutions, including re-investment
of profits into healthcare infrastructure
Health for all
in LDCs
We are working to make our medicines,
• preferential pricing by ViiV Healthcare
vaccines and consumer healthcare
in the Access to Medicines Index of anti-retrovirals for HIV/AIDS.
products available and affordable to as
Our comprehensive approach many of the people who need them as
helped us to be rated the leader in possible, irrespective of where they live
the bi-annual Access to Medicines or their ability to pay. We aim to do this
while generating a return, as we need to
(ATM) Index published by the ATM
be able to sustain our business and invest
Foundation in 2008 and 2010.
in research for new products.45 GSK Annual Report 2011
Vaccines for the
developing world
Organisations such as UNICEF, the Pan
American Health Organization (PAHO)
and the GAVI Alliance are helping
to save children’s lives and protect
people’s health by increasing access to
immunisations in poor countries.
We are a leading vaccine supplier to
these organisations. Of the 1.1 billion
vaccine doses our business shipped
in 2011, just over 80% of these went
to developing countries, including
least developed low- and middle-
income countries.
In June 2011, we offered to supply
125 million doses of our rotavirus
vaccine Rotarix to GAVI at $2.50 per
dose, a small fraction of developed
world prices. We will also supply
up to 480 million doses of our
pneumococcal vaccine, Synflorix,
to GAVI at a heavily discounted
price to help expand immunisation
programmes to 72 developing
countries.
We have also signed an agreement
to supply Synflorix, Cervarix and
Rotarix to PAHO, expanding the
protection of women against the
virus that leads to cervical cancer and
protecting more children against
pneumonia and gastrointestinal
diarrhoeas cause by rotavirus.
We will continue to build on these Also in October, we became a founder
product, pricing and partnership member of the WIPO Re:Search
commitments to help improve healthcare consortium, a group of over 20
in the developing world. We report companies, academic institutions and
fully on our progress in our Corporate government research bodies established
Responsibility Report, but some to provide access to intellectual property
highlights from 2011 follow. for pharmaceutical compounds,
technologies, and – most importantly –
In October we published encouraging
know-how and data available for research
initial Phase III results of our malaria
and development for neglected tropical
vaccine candidate which showed that it
diseases, tuberculosis, and malaria.
reduces malaria by half in young African
children aged 5–17 months.
sppihW
moT46 GSK Annual Report 2011
Strategic review Responsible business continued
The Tres Cantos Open Lab opened Our people and communities
Employees by region
in 2011 at our Spanish medicines
Investing in our people and communities
development campus, dedicated to
research into diseases of the developing will help us to ensure the long-term 5 6 1
sustainability of our business. Our
world. By the end of the year, we had 4
employment practices are designed to
seven projects with 11 visiting scientists 2
help us create the right workplace culture
from both the developed and
in which all employees feel valued,
developing world.
respected, empowered and inspired.
A significant increase in resources from
We also want the many communities 3
the global community is still needed to No.
we work in to prosper as our business
support R&D and to provide access to 1 USA 16,707
grows. Our community investment
the resultant medicines and vaccines. 2 Europe 38,696
Sustainable progress will only be made strengthens our business by supporting 3 Emerging Markets 29,466
the local economies where we operate, 4 Asia Pacific 7,039
if the significant barriers that stand in
helping us build relationships based on 5 Japan 3,573
the way of better access to healthcare are
mutual understanding and also boosting 6 Other 1,908
tackled as a shared responsibility by all
employee morale.
sectors of global society – governments,
international agencies, charities, academic Recruiting, developing and
institutions, the pharmaceutical industry engaging employees As our business evolves, there will
and others. be changes that affect employees.
We want GSK to be an employer of choice
We remain committed to consulting
and we are investing significantly in
on these changes via a number of
our talent development at every level.
internal consultation forums, as well as
Recruiting, developing and engaging
discussions with the European Works
employees is critical to meeting and
Council and similar bodies in countries
sustaining our business objectives and
where this is national practice.
overall performance. Our assessment
processes are aligned to a core set of Diversity at GSK
competencies, of which ethics and
We focus on creating an inclusive,
integrity are central.
engaging environment that empowers
We take a global view of talent and employees to continually contribute
strategic capabilities, looking at the to the organisation and enables us to
quality, depth and breadth of our talent achieve our strategic business objectives.
across the world. We strive to have good An inclusive environment is good for
succession plans in place for critical business because it brings different
positions across the organisation. We have knowledge, perspectives, experiences and
proactive initiatives in place to recruit working styles that enhance creativity
specialist and leadership talent, and we and innovation. We aim to attract
maintain a robust leadership strategy to a diverse workforce that reflects the
identify and develop our highly skilled communities in which we operate.
leadership group. We offer all employees
The proportion of people we employ in
a range of learning opportunities and
Emerging Markets, Asia Pacific and Japan
tailored development programmes.
is growing, increasing from 28% in 2007
Our performance and development to 41% of our total employees in 2011.
planning process means employees Around 10% of senior managers who
11 have business-aligned objectives and report to our executive team also come
behavioural goals. Reward systems are from these regions.
focused on promoting high performance
and helping to attract and retain the best
people. Performance-based pay, bonuses
visiting scientists working and share-based equity plans align
employee interests with business targets.
on projects in the Tres
Cantos Open Lab47 GSK Annual Report 2011
We are committed to employment
policies free from discrimination and to
an environment that does not tolerate
harassment or discrimination of: actual
or perceived race, colour, ethnic or
national origin, age, gender, sexual
orientation, gender identity and/or
expression, religion or belief, physical
ability/disability and/or chronic health
conditions, genetic make-up or other
protected characteristics as relevant
in a country.
A healthy, high-performing workforce
with zero harm
To meet our mission and strategy,
employee health and safety initiatives
focus on the factors that enable employees
to perform at the highest level by
sustaining energy and engagement and
drive towards zero harm in the workplace.
We provide resources, tools and
programmes to employees to support
them in adopting healthier lifestyles
and managing the pressures of work
and life. These are available in many
languages and range from options such
as immunisations, smoking control,
weight management and process safety
to cutting-edge programmes for team and
personal resilience, ergonomics, driver
safety and Energy for Performance.
Our company-wide programme Living
Safety is designed to build a culture of
zero harm, with a goal of no serious
environment, health and safety incidents.
Positive Action for Children Fund
In support of the global effort to eliminate mother-to-child transmission of HIV
by 2015, ViiV Healthcare has broadened the reach and scope of donations for its
Positive Action for Children Fund (PACF). One highlight of this programme was
a £500,000 grant to Care International for the ‘Our Future’ project which seeks
to empower communities to address the effects of sexual violence and reduce
stigma in North Kivu, Democratic Republic of Congo. It is doing this through the
promotion of services and the empowerment of community-based campaigns
on the ground.
Another highlight was the new £1.5 million ‘small grants scheme’, supporting 82
community based projects in 21 countries across the globe. The projects selected
to receive funding through this effort are specifically aimed at improving the
health and welfare of women, children and families affected by HIV.
For more on ViiV Healthcare see page 26.
dnuF
noitacudE
utnubU48 GSK Annual Report 2011
Strategic review Responsible business continued
Our work with communities The programmes we support are designed Our behaviour
to have a long-term, sustainable impact.
Through our investment in communities, Our commitment to responsible, values-
We set ambitious commitments and
we aim to improve health education based business underlies everything
work with experienced partners. We also
and to increase access to medicines and we do. We have strong policy and
encourage employees to get involved
healthcare services, targeting our support compliance programmes and expect
through our volunteering initiatives such
where it is needed most. the same standards of our suppliers,
as the Orange Day programme and the
contractors and business partners.
Our approach includes funding longer-term PULSE scheme.
Most importantly, we are building a
innovative programmes that improve
Our global community investment was stronger culture based on our values
health through community engagement
£204 million in 2011. Overall giving has of Transparency, Respect for People,
and behavioural change, donating
remained constant after excluding our Integrity and Patient focus.
medicines and expertise, and reinvesting
donation of 24 million doses of H1N1
some of our profits to improve healthcare We recognise that we need to be open
vaccination to WHO in 2010. This total
infrastructure. We also invest in science about what we do, how we do it and the
includes donations of products worth
education and support relief efforts challenges we face.
£126 million, which we value using an
following natural disasters.
average cost of goods rather than the We know that the research and
We maximise the benefits of our higher wholesale acquisition price as we development, manufacture and sale of
community investment by working in believe it is a more accurate reflection of our products can raise ethical issues.
partnership with non-governmental the true cost to GSK. We must meet consistently high quality
organisations and by selecting projects and ethical standards for research and
Our product donation is primarily made
that enable us to apply our expertise development in all parts of our business,
through three programmes: Patient
and resources. and in all the countries where we operate.
Assistance Programs (£96 million),
We recognise there are aspects of our
As well as benefiting communities, our humanitarian product donations
research that can raise ethical concerns,
investment strengthens our business (£4 million) and donation of albendazole
including those relating to animal
by improving our reputation, boosting tablets for the lymphatic filariasis (LF)
research and studies of experimental
employee morale and helping us elimination programme (£19 million).
medicines in people. We build trust
build relationships based on mutual Our cash giving of £57 million is also
with our stakeholders by meeting their
understanding with a range of groups. included in this total and is targeted
expectations on our behaviour, and by
primarily at health and education
being transparent and open to challenge
initiatives, including our reinvestment
and discussion.
of 20% of profits we make in Least
Developed Countries back into healthcare Ethical conduct
infrastructure (£3.9 million).
Ethical conduct is a priority for GSK.
Failure to uphold high ethical standards
Our community investment How our cash donations are can erode trust in our company and
by type allocated our products, damage our reputation
and result in serious financial or legal
4 1 5 6 1 consequences. Our Code of Conduct
sets out fundamental standards for
3 4
all employees. It is supported by the
2
Employee Guide to Business Conduct,
which is available in 22 languages and
2
helps employees make ethical decisions
with an emphasis on our values.
3
£m % Our internal compliance systems are
1 Cash 57 1 Health 52 designed to identify and address breaches
2 Product 126 2 Education 22 of our codes and reinforce GSK’s values.
3 In kind 4 3 Arts & Culture 9 There is continual external pressure
4 Management 17 4 Environment 2 to enhance these systems and our
5 Other 15
compliance oversight and internal audits
are helping to drive this change. Our
compliance programmes are designed to
embed a values-based culture at GSK.49 GSK Annual Report 2011
In 2011 we launched ‘One Compliance’, To reflect our commitment to consistently Carbon
an initiative to improve consistency in high standards in sales and marketing,
Our long-term vision is for our entire
policy, implementation and monitoring we reviewed and expanded our Global
value chain to be carbon neutral by 2050.
across all our business units and the Code of Practice for Promotion and
Around 40% of our carbon footprint
different countries where we operate. Customer Interactions in 2011. The code,
results from our supply chain and a
We fully investigate suspected breaches which covers areas such as providing
further 40% from propellants released
and take appropriate disciplinary action, information to healthcare professionals,
from our inhalers.
including dismissal, where appropriate. samples, payments to healthcare
professionals, gifts and hospitality, grants Less than a fifth of our total impact
We have a zero-tolerance approach to
and donations, will be deployed in 2012. comes directly from our operations, so
bribery and corruption, set out in our
All sales and marketing employees will be while we continue to increase energy
Preventing Corrupt Practices policy. In
trained on the revised code. efficiency and the use of renewable
2011 we established an Anti-Bribery and
energy at our sites, we are also focusing
Corruption Expert Forum which meets Our planet
on our supply chain and the use of
weekly to answer employee questions and
In 2010 we revised our environmental products, especially inhalers.
advise on anti-bribery and corruption
sustainability strategy focusing on
issues. Members of the forum include In 2011 we began footprinting key
carbon, water, waste and environmental
representatives from our legal and products to identify the priorities, and
stewardship, not just for our own
compliance functions, as well as external have developed site-based events to
operations but also across our full value
consultants. Answers are posted on our analyse local carbon reduction potential
chain, from raw materials to product
intranet which all employees can visit. and act on the opportunities. In 2011
disposal. As part of the strategy we set
we reduced energy consumption from
ambitious 2020 goals for key impacts,
our operations by 5.2%. Greenhouse
including a 25% reduction in our carbon
gas emissions from the use of inhalers
footprint, a 20% reduction in water use
rose by 2.9%.
across the value chain, zero waste to
landfill, and almost doubling our mass
efficiency – the efficiency with which we
use materials in our new pharmaceutical
products. By 2050, we aim to be carbon
neutral across our entire supply chain.50 GSK Annual Report 2011
Strategic review Responsible business continued
Water We aim to reduce the volume of We have continued to improve our
packaging and use recycled materials understanding of the environmental
Water is a particularly important natural
where possible, and to encourage impacts of some of our purchased
resource, and we recognise that GSK can
consumers to recycle after use. In 2011 materials and begun to work with
play a positive role in managing it more
we revised our Green Packaging Guide key suppliers. We have held detailed
sustainably. We endorsed the United
to help designers choose the most discussions with leading suppliers on
Nations CEO Water Mandate in 2009 and
sustainable option. We began using our developing carbon footprints for materials
are working with some other signatories
own waste plastic to make Ribena bottles, and are using these data to improve
to develop a disclosure methodology.
which will provide more than a quarter environmental performance.
The aim is to agree how to measure
of our annual bottle requirement, saving
a company’s water impact across the Environmental management
approximately £700,000 and 3,000
value chain, as an essential first step in
managing GSK’s total water impact. In
tonnes of CO2 emissions a year. The new Environmental Sustainability
Steering Team is responsible for shaping
2011 we reduced water consumption in Environmental stewardship
our environmental sustainability
our operations by 6.9%.
Increasing the efficiency with which we strategy so that it is integrated into the
Waste use materials is a priority. Our target is business strategy and is both realistic and
to achieve 2.5% mass efficiency for new stretching. We manage environmental
Our goal is for zero waste going to landfill
pharmaceutical products transferred from issues (as well as occupational health
by 2020. In 2011 we reduced waste
R&D to manufacturing by 2015, with and safety) using a management system
generation in our operations by 1.2% and
the long-term aspiration to achieve 5% aligned with recognised international
reduced the waste sent to landfill by 25%.
mass efficiency by 2020. This is five times standards. Environmental, health
Also during the year we continued trials
the typical level in the pharmaceutical and safety data are subject to external
of a ‘take-back’ scheme to recycle used
industry and will reduce input materials assurance. You can read more about our
inhalers. Following success in the USA,
and waste by 80%. The average mass environmental strategy and performance
we extended an initial trial with the Co-
efficiency for new products transferred to in our Corporate Responsibility Report.
operative supermarket chain in the UK.
manufacturing in 2011 reached 2.2%.
Cutting our carbon
Around 40% of our carbon footprint
comes from propellants released from
our inhalers. This year, we extended a
‘take-back’ scheme for inhalers from
the USA to the UK.
Working with pharmacists, we seek to
encourage patients to return empty
inhalers when they collect a new one.
The used inhalers are recycled and
the plastics sent for re-manufacturing.
Any remaining aerosol propellant is
reused in non-medical applications.
Saving the propellant has avoided
the equivalent of 35 tonnes of CO2
emissions.
ssennE
naI51 GSK Annual Report 2011
Financial review
We use a number of adjusted measures to report the performance Transition to core measures for 2012 reporting
of our business. These measures are used by management for
planning and reporting purposes and in discussions with and We announced in 2011 our intention to introduce core measures
presentations to investment analysts and rating agencies and are for both operating profit and earnings per share to report the
defined below. These measures are not defined in IFRS and may performance of the Group from 2012 onwards. The primary
not be comparable with similarly described measures used by purpose of this approach is to remove the volatility created by
other companies. various items such as the impairment of intangible assets, legal
charges and asset disposal gains and losses. We believe this will
Underlying turnover
provide a clearer view of the underlying performance of our core
Underlying turnover excludes sales of pandemic products, Avandia business and expect it to make us more comparable with the
and Valtrex. We believe this underlying measure assists shareholders majority of our peers.
in gaining a clearer understanding of our turnover performance and
In addition, in 2012 the Emerging Markets and Asia Pacific
prospects because of the size and nature of the loss of sales of those
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines regions will be amalgamated
products. A reconciliation is presented on page 27.
into one region for segmental reporting purposes and various
Free cash flow non-prescription Stiefel brands will be transferred from the
Pharmaceuticals business to Consumer Healthcare.
Free cash flow is the net cash inflow from operating activities less
capital expenditure, interest and dividends paid to non-controlling Brand names
interests plus proceeds from the sale of property, plant and
equipment and dividends received from joint ventures and Brand names appearing in italics throughout this report are
associated undertakings. Free cash flow growth is calculated on trademarks either owned by and/or licensed to GlaxoSmithKline
a sterling basis. A reconciliation is presented on page 64. or associated companies, with the exception of Benlysta, a
trademark of Human Genome Sciences, Boniva/Bonviva, a
Working capital conversion cycle
trademark of Roche, Levitra, a trademark of Bayer, NicoDerm,
The working capital conversion cycle is calculated as the number a trademark of Elan, Johnson & Johnson, Merrell, Novartis, Sanofi
of days sales outstanding plus days inventory outstanding, less or GlaxoSmithKline, Potiga, a trademark of Valeant, Prolia and
days purchases outstanding. Xgeva trademarks of Amgen, Vesicare, a trademark of Astellas
Pharmaceuticals in many countries and of Yamanouchi
White pills in Western markets
Pharmaceuticals in certain countries, Volibris, a trademark of Gilead
White pills in Western markets refers to sales of tablets and simple and Xyzal, a trade mark of UCB or GlaxoSmithKline, all of which
injectables (excluding biopharmaceuticals and vaccines) in North are used in certain countries under licence by the Group.
America and Europe.
Revolaire is a trade mark of the GlaxoSmithKline group of
CER growth companies. The use of the brand name Revolaire for FF/VI
is not approved by regulatory authorities around the world.
In order to illustrate underlying performance, it is our practice
to discuss the results in terms of constant exchange rate (CER)
growth. This represents growth calculated as if the exchange
rates used to determine the results of overseas companies in
Sterling had remained unchanged from those used in the
previous year. CER% represents growth at constant exchange
rates. £% represents growth at actual exchange rates.
All commentaries in this Report are presented in terms of CER
unless otherwise stated.52 GSK Annual Report 2011
Financial review Financial review continued
& risk
Our financial review discusses the operating and financial Group turnover by geographic region
performance of the Group, the financial outlook and our financial
resources. We compare the results for each year primarily with Reported turnover Underlying turnover
results of the preceding year. Our performance is explained using 2011 2010 Growth Growth Growth Growth
£m £m CER% £% CER% £%
a variety of measures. In this review we discuss the results on both
USA 8,687 9,345 (3) (7) – (3)
a before major restructuring basis and a total basis.
Europe 8,271 9,091 (10) (9) (4) (3)
All growth rates included in the financial review are at constant Emerging Markets 5,323 5,023 9 6 15 12
exchange rates (CER) unless otherwise stated. The calculation of Asia Pacific 1,793 1,614 7 11 10 14
underlying turnover is described on page 51. Japan 2,318 2,155 1 8 28 36
Other 995 1,164 (15) (14) (6) (5)
Group turnover by division
27,387 28,392 (3) (4) 4 3
Reported turnover Underlying turnover * CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates. £% represents growth
2011 2010 Growth Growth Growth Growth at actual exchange rates. Turnover by quarter is given on pages 226 to 231.
£m £m CER% £% CER% £%
Group sales outside the USA and Europe accounted for 38% of
Pharmaceuticals 18,695 19,059 (1) (2) 2 1
turnover with reported sales growth of 4% and underlying growth
Vaccines 3,497 4,326 (19) (19) 11 11
of 14% reflecting strong growth across all three businesses and
Pharmaceuticals
geographic regions.
and Vaccines 22,192 23,385 (4) (5) 4 3
Consumer Healthcare 5,195 5,007 5 4 5 4
Group turnover by segment
27,387 28,392 (3) (4) 4 3
Reported turnover Underlying turnover
In 2011, reported turnover declined 3% and underlying turnover
increased 4%, reflecting underlying growth across all three areas of 2011 2010 Growth Growth Growth Growth
£m £m CER% £% CER% £%
our business – Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and Consumer
Pharmaceuticals
Healthcare. The breadth and mix of our product and geographic and Vaccines:
portfolio helped us to mitigate economic volatility during the year.
USA 7,035 7,648 (5) (8) – (3)
Reported Group turnover fell 3% to £27.4 billion, with Europe 5,767 6,546 (13) (12) (4) (3)
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines down 4% (Pharmaceuticals down Emerging Markets 3,680 3,561 6 3 15 11
1%, Vaccines down 19%) to £22.2 billion and Consumer Asia Pacific 1,244 1,143 5 9 9 13
Healthcare sales up 5% to £5.2 billion. Sales of pandemic related Japan 2,082 1,959 – 6 30 39
products, Avandia and Valtrex declined from £2.3 billion in 2010 ViiV Healthcare 1,569 1,566 1 – 1 –
to £507 million in 2011. This had a significant adverse impact on Other trading and
reported Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines sales growth in all regions. unallocated 815 962 (16) (15) (5) (4)
Pharmaceuticals
Our underlying turnover growth was 4%, with Pharmaceuticals
and Vaccines 22,192 23,385 (4) (5) 4 3
up 2%, Vaccines up 11% and Consumer Healthcare up 5%. The
Consumer Healthcare 5,195 5,007 5 4 5 4
underlying Pharmaceuticals growth reflected the contribution from
27,387 28,392 (3) (4) 4 3
new products, partly offset by generic competition to older
In the USA, Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines reported turnover
products in the USA and Europe and the increased impact of
declined 5% and underlying turnover was flat, as the contribution
European austerity measures. The full year incremental impact on
from new products was offset by competition to older established
sales of European austerity price cuts and US Healthcare Reform
products. In Europe, Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines reported
was approximately £315 million. The growth in underlying Vaccines
turnover fell 13% and underlying turnover declined by 4%, as a
sales primarily reflected strong performances from Cervarix,
result of austerity price cuts and a mild flu season. In Emerging
Synflorix and Rotarix. In Consumer Healthcare, strong growth in
Markets, reported turnover grew 6% while, underlying growth of
Oral healthcare and Nutritional healthcare was partly offset by flat
15% was driven by relatively consistent Pharmaceuticals growth
Over-the-counter sales.
during the year (up 14%), in part reflecting Dermatology
acquisitions made in 2010 and 2011, strong Vaccines growth (up
17% underlying), with quarterly volatility due to tender phasing.
Reported Vaccines sales in Emerging Markets declined 12%.
Political and economic uncertainties impacted the performance in a
number of territories in Emerging Markets.53 GSK Annual Report 2011
In Japan, reported turnover was flat, but the largest driver of the Anti-virals
30% underlying growth was Cervarix, while in Asia Pacific,
Anti-virals decreased 27% to £0.8 billion. Sales growth was
reported turnover increased 5%. The underlying growth of 9%
impacted by lower sales of Relenza (down 79% to £27 million)
principally came from Respiratory products and Vaccines. ViiV
compared with significant sales in 2010 related to pandemic flu.
Healthcare sales grew 1%. Consumer Healthcare sales grew by
In addition, Valtrex sales continued to decline as a result of
5%, with declines in the USA of 1% and Europe of 2% reflecting
generic competition in the USA and Europe (down 38% to
difficult economic conditions, more than offset by consistent strong
£339 million). Sales of Zeffix grew 1% to £237 million with
growth in the Rest of the World markets of 14%.
strong growth in Emerging Markets being offset by small
Pharmaceuticals turnover declines in most other markets.
2011 2010 Growth Growth Central nervous system (CNS)
£m £m CER% £%
CNS sales decreased 2% to £1.7 billion. Performance was
Respiratory 7,298 7,238 2 1
primarily impacted by a decline in Seroxat/Paxil sales (down 13%
Anti-virals 807 1,086 (27) (26)
to £435 million), partially offset by Lamictal sales growth (up 8%
Central nervous system 1,721 1,753 (2) (2)
to £536 million) benefiting from growth in Japan where product
Cardiovascular and urogenital 2,740 2,570 8 7
sales more than doubled to £41 million and a continuing strong
Metabolic 362 678 (47) (47)
performance of Lamictal XR in the USA.
Anti-bacterials 1,390 1,396 1 –
Oncology and emesis 693 688 2 1 Cardiovascular and urogenital
Dermatology 1,087 1,087 1 –
Cardiovascular and urogenital sales increased 8% to £2.7 billion,
ViiV Healthcare (HIV) 1,569 1,566 1 –
primarily driven by the Avodart franchise, up 20% to
Other 1,028 997 4 3
£748 million, the launches of the new combination product
18,695 19,059 (1) (2)
Duodart/Jalyn in the USA and Europe and of Avodart in Japan,
Pharmaceuticals turnover by therapeutic area and Lovaza, up 12% to £569 million. Volibris sales more than
doubled to £97 million, while Arixtra declined 7% to
Turnover declined 1% to £18.7 billion, with growth in
£276 million as a result of the start of generic competition
Cardiovascular and urogenital, Respiratory, Dermatology, Anti-
in the USA in the third quarter of 2011.
bacterials, HIV and Oncology and emesis, more than offset by
declines in Metabolic, Anti-virals and Central nervous system. Metabolic
Respiratory Metabolic sales decreased 47% to £0.4 billion, primarily
reflecting the loss of sales of Avandia. In addition, sales of Boniva
Respiratory sales increased 2% to £7.3 billion reflecting strong
were negatively impacted by the termination of co-promotion
performances in Japan, Emerging Markets and Asia Pacific.
agreements in certain European countries.
Seretide/Advair sales were flat as growth in Japan and Asia Pacific
offset small declines in the USA and Europe. In addition, Ventolin Anti-bacterials
grew 17% to £602 million and Avamys/Veramyst sales were up
Anti-bacterial sales grew 1% to £1.4 billion with growth in the
24% to £241 million.
category led by sales of Augmentin in Emerging Markets (up 11%
In the USA, sales of Advair were £2.5 billion, down 1% which to £311 million). The category was held back by austerity price
was in line with estimated underlying growth for the year cuts and the mild flu season in the northern hemisphere.
(6% volume decline partly offset by 5% positive impact of price
Oncology and emesis
and mix). Flovent grew 8% to £447 million and Ventolin grew
39% to £239 million. Oncology and emesis sales increased 2% to £0.7 billion reflecting
strong growth from new products Votrient, Promacta/Revolade
In Europe, Respiratory sales were down 2%. Seretide sales were
and Arzerra which together more than doubled to £219 million,
down 2% at £1.6 billion as the impact of price reductions by
partly offset by generic competition to older products.
European governments offset volume increases.
Votrient has achieved an 18% total prescription share in the US
In Emerging Markets, Respiratory sales grew 8%, with growth
advanced renal cell carcinoma market. Head-to-head data in
in many products in the portfolio. Seretide sales were flat at
2012 from an event-driven study comparing Votrient to the
£317 million as volume growth was offset by the continuing
current market leader, Sutent (which has a market share of
impact of price cuts, particularly in Russia and Turkey.
approximately 50%), is expected in 2012. Votrient is also under
regulatory review in the USA and Europe for a new indication
in soft-tissue sarcoma.
Ongoing launches of Promacta/Revolade continued throughout
2011 as sales outside the USA grew from £6 million in 2010 to
£43 million in 2011. Sales in the USA grew 36% to £32 million.
The strong performances of the new oncology products were
partly offset by the impact of generic competition in the USA to
Hycamtin which was down 92%, and the continued decline of
Zofran, which fell 12% to £83 million.54 GSK Annual Report 2011
Financial review Financial review continued
& risk
Dermatology The strong reported growth of Rotarix (up 31% to £300 million)
primarily reflected the impact of the product being off the market
Dermatology sales grew 1% to £1.1 billion. Reported growth
during part of 2010.
benefited from the addition of sales from businesses acquired in
late 2010 and early 2011 but this was offset by the effect of the Sales of Fluarix/FluLaval were £230 million, down 2%. Strong
disposal of Zovirax in North America in Q1 2011. Excluding these growth in the USA (up 25% to £132 million) was offset by lower
factors, growth in the category was 1%, as growth in Emerging sales in both Europe (primarily due to price cuts) and China.
Markets (which is benefiting from ongoing launches of Stiefel
Sales of products included within the Infanrix franchise declined
products in new markets) offset the impact of price cuts in
2% to £690 million. Sales in the USA grew 16% to £163 million
Europe and generic competition to Evoclin in the USA.
helped by CDC stockpile orders for both Pediarix and Kinrix. Sales
ViiV Healthcare (HIV) in Europe declined 7% to £403 million primarily due to price cuts.
Sales in Emerging Markets declined 10% to £44 million, primarily
ViiV Healthcare sales grew 1% to £1.6 billion, with USA up 4%,
as a result of lower sales in China.
Europe down 3%, Emerging Markets up 9% and Rest of World down
4%. Growth was primarily driven by Epzicom/Kivexa (up 12% to The Hepatitis franchise declined 3% to £688 million, largely as a
£617 million) and Selzentry (up 39% to £110 million), partly offset by result of austerity price cuts in Europe and reduced CDC funding
a decline in the mature portfolio (down 8% to £842 million). for adult hepatitis immunisations as well as the return to the US
market of a competitor vaccine in the third quarter of 2011.
The Epzicom/Kivexa sales growth was driven by strong
performance in the USA and Europe. In the USA sales of Epzicom Sales from new pharmaceutical and vaccine launches
were £230 million, up 14%, reflecting a relatively equal mix of
volume and price growth. The volume growth in Europe 2011 2010 Growth Growth
£m £m CER% £%
benefited from an improved positioning in regional and local
Avamys/Veramyst 241 193 24 25
guidelines. Kivexa continued to grow in Japan and Mexico and
Lamictal XR 109 68 66 60
a number of developing markets in Asia Pacific.
Requip XL 139 148 (6) (6)
The Selzentry sales growth was primarily driven by an increase Treximet 57 56 5 2
in market share. In the USA, sales were £45 million, up 38% Coreg CR 146 157 (4) (7)
and in Europe sales were £51 million, up 24%. Duodart/Jalyn 104 18 >100 >100
Volibris 97 46 >100 >100
The decline in the mature portfolio (including Combivir which
Promacta 75 31 >100 >100
declined 10% to £322 million) was primarily driven by a decline
Arzerra 44 31 45 42
in the western markets as a result of newer treatment options.
Tyverb/Tykerb 231 227 2 2
Vaccines sales Votrient 100 38 >100 >100
Cervarix 506 242 >100 >100
2011 2010 Growth Growth Rotarix 300 235 31 28
£m £m CER% £%
Synflorix 350 221 57 58
Total Vaccines sales 3,497 4,326 (19) (19)
Others 42 16
Vaccines sales, excluding pandemic
2,541 1,727 47 47
related products 3,479 3,134 11 11
Total sales of new products (launched since the beginning of 2007 and
excluding pandemic vaccines) were £2.5 billion and grew 47% in 2011.
Vaccines
The loss of flu pandemic vaccine sales in the year resulted in a The launches of three new products are underway:
decline in reported vaccines sales of 19% to £3.5 billion. Excluding • Benlysta for lupus is being launched in the USA as part of the
the effect of the flu pandemic vaccine sales, underlying sales grew global partnership with Human Genome Sciences, Inc. The
by 11% reflecting the growth of Cervarix, Synflorix and Rotarix product has also recently been introduced in Germany. Our
partly offset by lower sales of the Hepatitis franchise and Infanrix turnover of £15 million in the year reflects share of gross profit
and the impact of changes to the Pharmacopeia in China. in the USA and total sales in all other markets.
Underlying Vaccine sales grew strongly in all regions, except for
• Trobalt as an adjunctive (add-on) treatment of partial onset
Europe where sales declined 11% reflecting austerity price cuts
seizures (a form of epilepsy where a seizure begins in a specific
and fewer tender orders for Cervarix.
area in one side of the brain) is being launched in Europe.
Cervarix sales more than doubled to £506 million primarily Additionally, the product has been approved by the FDA under
reflecting the national HPV vaccination programme in Japan, the brand name Potiga, and following a review by the US Drug
which started at the end of 2010. The catch-up vaccination cohort Enforcement Administration, launch of the product is expected
in Japan includes five age groups and the majority of vaccine to during the first half of 2012.
support this programme has now been shipped, with most of the • Horizant for the treatment of moderate-to-severe primary
remainder due to be shipped in early 2012. Restless Legs Syndrome in adults received FDA approval during
the year and the launch of the product is underway.
Synflorix grew 57% to £350 million reflecting continued growth
Additionally, in August 2011, a supplemental new Drug
arising from tenders in Emerging Markets.
Application (sNDA) was submitted to the FDA requesting
approval of Horizant for management of post-herpetic neuralgia
in adults. This was accepted in October.55 GSK Annual Report 2011
Consumer Healthcare turnover Results before major restructuring and total results
In October 2007 the Board approved the implementation of a
2011 2010 Growth Growth
£m £m CER% £% detailed formal plan for, and we announced, a significant new
Over-the-counter medicines 2,453 2,458 – – Operational Excellence restructuring programme. A second formal
Oral healthcare 1,717 1,596 8 8 plan, representing a significant expansion of the Operational Excellence
Nutritional healthcare 1,025 953 10 8 programme, was approved by the Board and announced in February
5,195 5,007 5 4 2009. A further expansion was approved by the Board and announced
in February 2010.
* CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates. £% represents
growth at actual exchange rates. Turnover by quarter is given on page 231. This restructuring programme, comprising these detailed formal plans,
covers all areas of our business, including manufacturing, selling,
2011 2010 Growth Growth
£m £m CER% £% R&D and infrastructure. Further savings have been identified during
USA 992 1,037 (1) (4) the year and with an estimated total cost increased to approximately
Europe 1,930 1,960 (2) (2) £4.85 billion, the expanded programme is now expected to deliver
ROW 2,273 2,010 14 13 annual pre-tax savings of approximately £2.8 billion by the time it is
5,195 5,007 5 4 substantially complete in 2014. Approximately 82% of the expanded
programme costs were incurred by 31 December 2011 and
Consumer Healthcare sales grew 5% to £5.2 billion compared approximately 13% are expected to be incurred in 2012, with the
with an estimated market growth of 4% (for markets where we majority of the balance being incurred in 2013. In total approximately
compete). The net impact of acquisitions and the disposals was 75% of these costs are expected to be cash expenditures and 25%
not significant. expected to be asset write-downs.
Excluding all of the OTC brands targeted for divestment, Consumer Given the extent and cost of the Operational Excellence restructuring
Healthcare sales grew approximately 7% on a like-for-like basis. programme, we believe it has a material impact on our operating
The disposal of the North American OTC brands was completed on results and on the manner in which our business is conducted. We
31 January 2012. Sales of these brands in 2011 were £126 million present the restructuring costs incurred solely as a direct result of the
and as a result will impact our reported growth for 11 months of Operational Excellence restructuring programme, which in 2011
2012. The process of divesting the remaining non-core OTC brands amounted to £530 million (2010 – £1,242 million), in a separate
is continuing, subject to delivering appropriate shareholder value. column in the income statement titled ‘Major restructuring’.
OTC medicines In addition to the restructuring costs of the Operational Excellence
programme, the major restructuring column in the income statement
OTC sales were flat at £ 2.5 billion with strong growth in several
includes restructuring costs incurred solely as a direct result of any
sub-categories, offset by a decline in alli. The Panadol franchise
restructuring programmes that follow, and relate to, material
registered growth of 7% and in gastrointestinal care, the core
acquisitions where the operations of the acquired business overlap
brands Tums and Eno were up 17% and 15%, respectively.
extensively with our existing operations.
Oral healthcare
The restructuring activities that follow, and relate to, such acquisitions
Oral healthcare sales increased 8% to £1.7 billion, again led by are of the same nature as those undertaken under the Operational
Sensodyne, which continues to benefit from the successful launch of Excellence programme and are also carried out following a detailed
Repair & Protect and the ongoing geographic expansion of the formal plan. We therefore consider it appropriate to present the
Pronamel Acid Erosion business. costs of these restructuring activities in the same manner. The
Nutritional healthcare restructuring costs incurred in 2011 as a direct result of the
acquisition of Stiefel Laboratories, Inc. in July 2009, were £60 million
Nutritional healthcare grew by 10% to £1.0 billion led by strong growth (2010 – £103 million). The restructuring costs incurred as a direct
in Horlicks combined with the inclusion of Maxinutrition from February result of the acquisition of Reliant Pharmaceuticals Inc., the only other
2011. Nutritional healthcare growth excluding Maxinutrition was 7%. acquisition since October 2007 that meets the criteria set out above,
Regional performance were all charged and paid in 2008.
Strong growth in the Rest of the World was partly offset by small Our results before the costs of the Operational Excellence programme
declines in the USA and Europe. The Rest of World markets continued and acquisition-related restructuring programmes meeting the criteria
to lead growth with a 14% increase in sales. Growth was particularly described above are also presented in a separate column in the income
strong in emerging markets, with Africa and the Middle East (both up statement and are described as ‘Results before major restructuring’.
22%), China (up 16%), India (up 19%) and Latin America (up 11%). This presentation has been adopted to show clearly our results both
before and after the costs of these restructuring programmes. We
Europe recorded a 2% decline in sales largely as a result of lower
believe that this presentation assists shareholders in gaining a clearer
sales of alli and respiratory health products, partly offset by the
understanding of our financial performance and in making projections
inclusion of the Maxinutrition range from February 2011. The
of future financial performance, as results that include such costs,
environment in Europe continues to be challenging as a result of
by virtue of their size and nature, have limited comparative value.
economic pressures and very competitive market dynamics.
This presentation is also consistent with the way we assessed our
US sales decreased 1% as a result of the temporary interruption financial performance in 2011.
of Nicorette gum supply and a decline in sales of alli, combined
with difficult economic conditions, outweighing strong growth
from Sensodyne.56 GSK Annual Report 2011
Financial review Financial review continued
& risk
Only the restructuring costs incurred solely as a direct result Profit before tax – total results
of the Operational Excellence programme and the restructuring
Total results include restructuring costs related to the Operational
programmes following the Reliant and Stiefel acquisitions
Excellence programme and the acquisitions of Reliant and Stiefel.
have been reported in the major restructuring column in the
income statement.
2011 2010 Growth
These restructuring costs principally have arisen from impairments £m % £m % CER% £%
to property, plant and equipment and the termination of the Turnover 27,387 100 28,392 100 (3) (4)
employment contracts of staff made redundant as part of the Cost of sales (7,332) (26.8) (7,592) (26.7) (3) (3)
restructuring activities. As set out in Note 7 to the financial Selling, general
statements, ‘Major restructuring programme’, asset impairments and administration (8,826) (32.2) (13,053) (46.0) (32) (32)
and staff redundancies together accounted for £391 million of Research and
the £590 million restructuring costs incurred in 2011 and reported development (4,009) (14.6) (4,457) (15.7) (9) (10)
in the major restructuring column. Other operating
income 587 2.1 493 1.7
The remaining costs of £199 million in 2011 arose from Operating profit 7,807 28.5 3,783 13.3 >100 >100
miscellaneous expenditures incurred solely as a direct result of
the restructuring programmes, including the termination of Cost of sales
leases, accelerated depreciation, site closure costs and consultancy
Cost of sales increased to 26.8% of turnover (2010 – 26.7%). This
and project management fees. These costs include £23 million
reflected the impact of the reduction of higher margin sales of
associated with the proposed divestment of the non-core
pandemic related products, Avandia and Valtrex, together with the
Consumer Healthcare brands. No costs arising from our
effect of regional mix and the impact of US healthcare reform and
ongoing operating activities have been reported in the major
European austerity price cuts. These adverse impacts were partially
restructuring column.
offset by lower restructuring costs, lower inventory write-offs and
Any restructuring costs that do not arise solely as a direct result greater savings from the Operational Excellence programme.
of the Operational Excellence programme and restructuring
Selling, general and administration
programmes following, and relating to, acquisitions meeting the
criteria described above continue to be reported in operating SG&A costs were 32.2% of turnover compared with 46.0% in
expenses within results before major restructuring. These costs 2010. Legal costs of £157 million (2010 – £4,001 million) primarily
included restructuring costs related to minor acquisitions and arose from additional charges in the year for product liability
£4 million of cost in 2011 (2010 – £5 million of income) that related cases regarding Paxil, Poligrip and other products and various
to restructuring activity initiated before the commencement of the government investigations and reflect the best estimates of the
Operational Excellence programme. None of this restructuring additional amounts expected to be necessary to resolve those
activity had a material impact on our operating results or on the disputes. Excluding legal costs, SG&A costs were 31.7% of
manner in which our business is conducted. turnover, 0.2 percentage points lower than in 2010. This reflected
lower restructuring charges and ongoing cost savings, including
During the anticipated duration of the Operational Excellence
from the Operational Excellence programme, partly offset by the
programme, we do not currently expect to incur any material
impact of the reduction in sales of pandemic related products,
restructuring costs except those related to that programme
Avandia and Valtrex and the US healthcare reform levy of £100
and acquisitions meeting the criteria described above. If any
million, and continuing investment in growth businesses and new
further, unanticipated material restructuring costs were to arise
product launches.
during this period, we would expect to include them also in
major restructuring. Advertising and promotion declined 5%, selling and distribution
declined 7% and general and administration excluding legal
Our operating profit, profit before taxation, taxation and profit
increased 2%. Collectively these items accounted for a 3% decline
for the year are discussed below in terms of both total results,
in SG&A before legal costs.
which include major restructuring costs, and results before
major restructuring. Research and development
We remain focused on delivering an improved return on our
investment in R&D and sales contribution, reduced attrition and cost
reduction are all important drivers of an improving internal rate of
return. R&D expenditure is not determined as a percentage of sales,
but instead capital is allocated using strict returns based criteria.
The operations of Pharmaceuticals R&D are broadly split into
Discovery activities (up to the completion of Phase IIa trials) and
Development work (from Phase IIb onwards). The table on page 57
analyses the Group R&D expenditure by these categories:57 GSK Annual Report 2011
Profit on disposal of interest in associates
2011 2010 2009
£m £m £m
The pre-tax profit on the disposal of interests in associates was
Discovery 853 940 978
£585 million (£246 million after tax), primarily reflecting the
Development 1,720 1,531 1,610
disposal of the remaining shares in Quest Diagnostics.
Facilities and central support functions 587 802 689
Pharmaceuticals R&D 3,160 3,273 3,277 Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures
Vaccines R&D 599 533 524
The share of after tax profits of associates of £15 million
Consumer Healthcare R&D 153 158 150
(2010 – £81 million) arose principally from the Group’s holding in
R&D before major restructuring 3,912 3,964 3,951
Aspen Pharmacare. The decline in 2011 reflected the disposal of
Major restructuring 97 493 155
the shares in Quest Diagnostics in February 2011.
Total R&D 4,009 4,457 4,106
Profit before taxation – total results
The proportion of Pharmaceuticals R&D investment made in the
late-stage portfolio continues to grow from 49% of the total Taking account of net finance costs, the profit on disposal of
Pharmaceuticals R&D costs in 2009 to 54% in 2011. interest in associates and the share of profits of associates, total
profit before taxation was £7,698 million compared with
R&D expenditure was 14.6% of turnover compared with 15.7%
£3,157 million in 2010. The more than 100% increase in CER and
in 2010, reflecting lower restructuring costs, efficiency savings and
sterling terms reflected the impact of lower legal charges in 2011.
lower intangible asset impairments, partly offset by increased
investment in the late-stage pipeline. Profit before tax – results before major restructuring
Other operating income The results before major restructuring are set out below:
Other operating income was £587 million (2010 – £493 million)
2011 2010 Growth
primarily comprising royalty income of £309 million (2010 –
£m % £m % CER% £%
£296 million) and profits on asset disposals of £355 million
Turnover 27,387 100 28,392 100 (3) (4)
(2010 – £244 million) partly offset by equity investment
Cost of sales (7,259) (26.5) (7,405) (26.1) (2) (2)
impairments of £78 million (2010 – £65 million) and restructuring
Selling, general
costs of £23 million (2010 – £nil) associated with the proposed
and administration (8,429) (30.8) (12,388) (43.6) (31) (32)
divestment of the non-core Consumer Healthcare brands.
Research and
Operating profit – total results development (3,912) (14.3) (3,964) (14.0) – (1)
Other operating
Operating profit after restructuring charges of £590 million
income 610 2.3 493 1.8
(2010 – £1,345 million) for the year ended 31 December 2011
Operating profit 8,397 30.7 5,128 18.1 65 64
was £7,807 million, an increase of over 100% in CER and sterling
terms compared with 2010. Excluding legal costs of £157 million Cost of sales
(2010 – £4,001 million), operating profit was £7,964 million a
Cost of sales increased to 26.5% of turnover compared with 26.1%
3% increase in CER terms (2% in sterling terms) principally
in 2010. This reflected the impact of the reduction of higher margin
reflecting a 3% decline in turnover, lower cost of sales, lower
sales of pandemic related products, Avandia and Valtrex, together
R&D expenditure and higher other operating income.
with the effect of regional mix and the impact of US healthcare
Net finance costs reform and European austerity price cuts. These adverse impacts
were partially offset by lower inventory write-offs and greater
2011 2010
Finance income £m £m savings from the Operational Excellence programme.
Interest and other finance income 90 103 Selling, general and administration
Fair value movements – 13
SG&A costs were 30.8% of turnover compared with 43.6% in
90 116
2010. Legal costs of £157 million (£4,001 million in 2010) primarily
Finance costs arose from additional charges in the year for product liability cases
Interest costs (744) (767) regarding Paxil, Poligrip and other products and various
Unwinding of discounts on liabilities (12) (18) government investigations and reflect the best estimates of the
Remeasurements and fair value movements (23) (21) additional amounts expected to be necessary to resolve those
Other finance expense (20) (25) disputes. Excluding legal costs, SG&A costs were 30.2% of
(799) (831) turnover, 0.7 percentage points higher than in 2010. This reflected
the impact of the reduction in sales of pandemic related products,
Net finance expense fell slightly to £709 million from £715 million Avandia and Valtrex and the US healthcare reform levy of
in 2010. This reflected relatively stable levels of net debt as the £100 million, and continuing investment in growth businesses
Group’s strong cash generation funded share repurchases of and new product launches, partly offset by ongoing cost savings,
£2.2 billion and increased dividend payments. including from the Operational Excellence programme.
Advertising and promotion declined 5%, selling and distribution
declined 1% and general and administration excluding legal costs
increased 4% owing to the US healthcare reform levy.
Collectively these items accounted for a 1% decline in SG&A
excluding legal costs.58 GSK Annual Report 2011
Financial review Financial review continued
& risk
Research and development Profit before taxation – results before major
restructuring
See table and discussion on page 56.
Taking account of net finance costs, the profit on disposal of
Other operating income
interests in associates and the share of profits of associates, profit
Other operating income was £610 million (2010 – £493 million) before tax before major restructuring was £8,290 million compared
primarily comprising royalty income of £309 million (2010 – with £4,505 million in 2010, an 86% CER increase and an 84%
£296 million) and profits on asset disposals of £355 million increase in sterling terms.
(2010 – £244 million) partly offset by equity investment
Taxation charge
impairments of £78 million (2010 – £65 million).
Operating profit – results before major restructuring 2011 2010
£m £m
Operating profit before major restructuring was £8,397 million, UK corporation tax at the UK statutory rate 647 82
a 65% increase in CER terms over 2010, as a result of lower legal Less double taxation relief (164) (156)
costs in 2011. 483 (74)
Overseas taxation 1,603 1,496
Excluding legal costs of £157 million (£4,001 million in 2010),
Current taxation 2,086 1,422
operating profit was £8,554 million, 5% below last year. The
Deferred taxation 154 (118)
operating profit margin excluding legal charges and other
Taxation on total profits 2,240 1,304
operating income fell by 1.4 percentage points to 29.0%
(2010 – 30.4%). This decline resulted from the loss of sales of the Tax on profit before major restructuring charges amounted to
higher margin pandemic products, Avandia and Valtrex, adverse £2,354 million and represented an effective tax rate of 28.4%
regional mix, austerity price cuts and the introduction of the US (2010 – 34.3%). Excluding the impact of the tax on the disposal
healthcare reform levy, and continuing investment in growth of the Quest shares, the tax rate was approximately 26.2%, and
businesses and new product launches, partly offset by ongoing benefited from early realisation of some of our tax strategies.
cost savings, including from the Operational Excellence programme.
We continue to believe that we have made adequate provision
Net finance costs for the liabilities likely to arise from open assessments. The ultimate
liability for such matters may vary from the amounts provided and
2011 2010 is dependent upon the outcome of litigation proceedings and
Finance income £m £m
negotiations with the relevant tax authorities.
Interest and other income 90 103
Fair value movements – 13 Profit the year
90 116
2011 2010 Growth
Finance costs £m £m CER% £%
Interest costs (744) (767) Total profit after taxation
Unwinding of discounts on liabilities (10) (18) for the year 5,458 1,853 >100 >100
Remeasurements and fair value movements (23) (18) Total profit attributable to
Other finance expense (20) (25) shareholders 5,261 1,634 >100 >100
(797) (828) Basic earnings per share (pence) 104.6p 32.1p >100 >100
Basic earnings per ADS (US$) $3.37 $1.00
Net finance expense fell slightly to £707 million from £712 million Results before major restructuring
in 2010. This reflected relatively stable levels of net debt as the profit after taxation for the year 5,936 2,961 >100 >100
Group’s strong cash generation funded share repurchases of Results before major restructuring
£2.2 billion and increased dividend payments. profit attributable to shareholders 5,739 2,742 >100 >100
Profit on disposal of interest in associate Adjusted earnings per share (pence) 114.1p 53.9p >100 >100
Adjusted earnings per ADS (US$) $3.67 $1.67
The pre-tax profit on the disposal of interests in associates was Weighted average number
£585 million (£246 million after tax), primarily reflecting the of shares (millions) 5,028 5,085
disposal of the remaining shares in Quest Diagnostics. Diluted total earnings per share (pence) 103.2p 31.9p
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint Diluted total earnings per ADS (US$) $3.32 $0.99
ventures Diluted weighted average number
of shares (millions) 5,099 5,128
The share of after tax profits of associates of £15 million
(2010 – £81 million) arose principally from the Group’s holding in Total results including restructuring costs produced a basic EPS
Aspen Pharmacare. The decline in 2011 reflected the disposal of of 104.6p compared with 32.1p in 2010. EPS before major
the share in Quest Diagnostics in February 2011. restructuring for the year was 114.1p compared with 53.9p in 2010.
Excluding legal charges, EPS before major restructuring declined
2.5% in CER terms and 3.3% in sterling terms.59 GSK Annual Report 2011
The adverse 0.8 percentage point currency impact on EPS before • C ustomer rebates are offered to key managed care and group
major restructuring arose predominantly from the strengthening purchasing organisations (GPO) and other direct and indirect
of Sterling against the US dollar partly offset by the weakening of customers. These arrangements require the customer to achieve
Sterling against the Japanese Yen. certain performance targets relating to the value of product
purchased, formulary status or pre-determined market shares
Dividend
relative to competitors. The accrual for customer rebates is
The Board declared four interim dividends resulting in a dividend estimated based on the specific terms in each agreement,
for the year of 70 pence, a 5 pence increase on the 65 pence per historical experience and product growth rates
share for 2010. The Board has also declared a supplemental interim
• T he US Medicaid programme is a state-administered programme
dividend of 5 pence per share related to the disposal of certain
providing assistance to certain poor and vulnerable patients. In
non-core OTC brands in North America, which was completed on
1990, the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program was established to
31 January 2012, to be paid at the same time as the fourth interim
reduce state and federal expenditure on prescription drugs. In
dividend. See Note 16 ‘Dividends’ on page 161.
2010, the Patient and Affordable Care Act became law. We
Reporting to shareholders participate by providing rebates to states. Accruals for Medicaid
rebates are calculated based on the specific terms of individual
As previously announced, a number of changes to the way we
state agreements using a combination of historical experience,
report, including transition to a core EPS measure, will be introduced
product and population growth, anticipated price increases and
in 2012. For more details see page 51.
the impact of contracting strategies
Critical accounting policies
• C ash discounts are offered to customers to encourage prompt
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance
payment. These are accrued for at the time of invoicing and
with IFRS, as adopted for use in the European Union, and also with
adjusted subsequently to reflect actual experience
IFRS as issued by the IASB, following the accounting policies
approved by the Board and described in Note 2 to the financial • W here there is historical experience of customer returns, we
statements, ‘Accounting principles and policies’. We are required record an accrual for estimated sales returns by applying
to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts of historical experience of customer returns to the amounts
assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses reported in the financial invoiced, together with market related information such as stock
statements. Actual amounts and results could differ from those levels at wholesalers, anticipated price increases and competitor
estimates. activity.
The critical accounting policies, for which information on the A reconciliation of gross turnover to net turnover for the US
judgements and estimates made is given in Note 3 to the financial Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines business is as follows:
statements, ‘Key accounting judgements and estimates’, and in
2011 2010 2009
the relevant detailed notes to the financial statements as indicated
£m % £m % £m %
below, relate to the following areas:
Gross turnover 9,783 100 10,802 100 11,674 100
• Turnover
• Taxation (Note 14) Chargebacks (756) (8) (993) (9) (1,124) (10)
• Legal and other disputes (Notes 29 and 44) Managed care, Medicare
• Property, plant & equipment (Note 17) Part D and GPO
• Goodwill (Note 18) rebates (926) (9) (894) (8) (907) (8)
• Other intangible assets (Note 19) US government and
• Pensions and other post-employment benefits (Note 28) state programmes (722) (7) (742) (7) (542) (5)
Cash discounts (176) (2) (193) (2) (200) (2)
Information on the judgements and estimates made in these areas
Customer returns (105) (1) (179) (1) (172) (1)
is given in Note 3 to the financial statements, ‘Key accounting
Prior year adjustments 94 1 38 – 24 –
judgements and estimates’.
Other items (157) (2) (191) (2) (175) (1)
In respect of the Turnover accounting policy, our largest business Total deductions (2,748) (28) (3,154) (29) (3,096) (27)
is US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines, and the US market has the Net turnover 7,035 72 7,648 71 8,578 73
most complex arrangements for rebates, discounts and allowances.
The overall return and rebate rate has decreased in the year
The following briefly describes the nature of the arrangements in
primarily due to lower sales of highly discounted brands, particularly
existence in our US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines business:
in the Managed Medicaid segment, and adjustments to prior year
• W e have arrangements with certain indirect customers whereby estimates.
the customer is able to buy products from wholesalers at
reduced prices. A chargeback represents the difference between
the invoice price to the wholesaler and the indirect customer’s
contractual discounted price. Accruals for estimating chargebacks
are calculated based on the terms of each agreement, historical
experience and product growth rates60 GSK Annual Report 2011
Financial review Financial review continued
& risk
The total accruals for rebates, discounts, allowances and returns in These meetings, as appropriate, detail the status of significant
the US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines business were as follows: litigation and governmental investigations and review matters such
as the number of claims notified to us, information on potential
At 31 claims not yet notified, assessment of the validity of claims,
At 31 December
December 2010 progress made in settling claims, recent settlement levels and
2011 (restated) potential reimbursement by insurers.
£m £m
Chargebacks 43 50 The meetings also include an assessment of whether or not there is
Managed care, Medicare Part D sufficient information available for us to be able to make a reliable
and GPO rebates 372 331 estimate of the potential outcomes of the disputes. Often, external
US government and state programmes 578 536 counsel assisting us with various litigation matters and
Cash discounts 18 21 investigations will also assist in the briefing of the Board and senior
Customer returns 234 254 management. Following these discussions, for those matters where
Other 24 28 it is possible to make a reliable estimate of the amount of a
Total 1,269 1,220 provision, if any, that may be required, the level of provision for
legal and other disputes is reviewed and adjusted as appropriate.
Information relating to 2010 has been restated following changes to
the classification of items included in certain of the above categories. Financial position and resources
The accrual for rebates to US government and state programmes
Property, plant and equipment
has increased as a result of the US healthcare reform implemented
during 2011. Our business is science-based, technology-intensive and highly
regulated by governmental authorities. We allocate significant
A monthly process is operated to monitor inventory levels at
financial resources to the renewal and maintenance of its property,
wholesalers for any abnormal movements. This process uses gross
plant and equipment to minimise risks of interruption of production
sales volumes, prescription volumes based on third party data
and to achieve compliance with regulatory standards.
sources and information received from key wholesalers. The aim of
A number of its processes use chemicals and hazardous materials.
this is to maintain inventories at a consistent level from year to year
based on the pattern of consumption. The total cost of our property, plant and equipment at
31 December 2011 was £18,832 million, with a net book value
On this basis, US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines inventory levels at
of £8,748 million. Of this, land and buildings represented
wholesalers and in other distribution channels at 31 December
£3,817 million, plant and equipment £2,905 million and assets in
2011 were estimated to amount to approximately one month of
construction £2,026 million. In 2011, we invested £1,061 million
turnover. This calculation uses third party information, the accuracy
in new and renewal property, plant and equipment. This is mainly
of which cannot be totally verified, but is believed to be sufficiently
related to a large number of projects for the renewal, improvement
reliable for this purpose.
and expansion of facilities at various worldwide sites. Property is
In respect of the accounting policy for Legal and other disputes, the mainly held freehold. New investment is financed from our liquid
following briefly describes the process by which we determine the resources. At 31 December 2011, we had capital contractual
level of provision that is necessary. commitments for future expenditure of £504 million and operating
lease commitments of £354 million. We believe that our facilities are
In accordance with the requirements of IAS 37, ‘Provisions,
adequate for our current needs.
contingent liabilities and contingent assets’, we provide for
anticipated settlement costs where an outflow of resources is We observe stringent procedures and use specialist skills to manage
considered probable and a reliable estimate may be made of the environmental risks from these activities. Environmental issues,
likely outcome of the dispute and legal and other expenses arising sometimes dating from operations now modified or discontinued,
from claims against the Group. We may become involved in are reported under ‘Environmental sustainability’ on page 49 and in
significant legal proceedings, in respect of which it is not possible to Note 44 to the financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’.
make a reliable estimate of the expected financial effect, if any, that
Goodwill
could result from ultimate resolution of the proceedings. In these
cases, appropriate disclosure about such cases would be included in Goodwill increased during the year to £3,754 million at
the Annual Report, but no provision would be made. This position 31 December 2011 from £3,606 million. The increase primarily
could change over time and, therefore, there can be no assurance reflects the goodwill arising on the acquisition of Maxinutrition
that any losses that result from the outcome of any legal proceedings Group Holdings Limited of £114 million, partly offset by a
will not exceed by a material amount the amount of the provisions weakening of overseas currencies.
reported in the Group’s financial statements.
Other intangible assets
Like many pharmaceutical companies, we are faced with various
Other intangible assets include the cost of intangibles acquired
complex product liability, anti-trust and patent litigation, as well
from third parties and computer software. The net book value of
as investigations of its operations conducted by various governmental
other intangible assets as at 31 December 2011 was £7,802 million
regulatory agencies. Throughout the year, the General Counsel of
(2010 – £8,532 million). The decrease in 2011 reflected
the Group, as head of the Group’s legal function, and the Senior Vice
amortisation and impairment of existing intangibles partly offset
President and Head of Global Litigation for the Group, who is
by additions of £363 million through business combinations and
responsible for all litigation and government investigations, routinely
other additions.
brief the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the
Board of Directors on the significant litigation pending against the
Group and governmental investigations of the Group.61 GSK Annual Report 2011
Financial position Investments
We held investments, including associates and joint ventures,
2011 2010
£m £m with a carrying value at 31 December 2011 of £1,150 million
Assets (2010 – £1,792 million). The market value at 31 December 2011
Non-current assets was £1,355 million (2010 – £2,688 million). The largest of these
Property, plant and equipment 8,748 9,045 investments are in an associate: Aspen Pharmacare Holdings
Goodwill 3,754 3,606 Limited which had a book value at 31 December 2011 of
Other intangible assets 7,802 8,532 £393 million (2010 – £397 million) and an investment in
Investments in associates and joint ventures 560 1,081 Theravance, Inc. which had a book value at 31 December 2011 of
Other investments 590 711 £226 million (2010 – £244 million). The investments include equity
Deferred tax assets 2,849 2,566 stakes in companies where the Group has research collaborations,
Derivative financial instruments 85 97 which provide access to biotechnology developments of potential
Other non-current assets 525 556 interest and interests in companies that arise from business
Total non-current assets 24,913 26,194 divestments.
Current assets Derivative financial instruments: assets
Inventories 3,873 3,837
We had both non-current and current derivative financial
Current tax recoverable 85 56
instruments held at fair value of £155 million (2010 – £190 million).
Trade and other receivables 5,576 5,793
The majority of this amount relates to interest rate swaps and
Derivative financial instruments 70 93
foreign exchange contracts designated as accounting hedges.
Liquid investments 184 184
Cash and cash equivalents 5,714 6,057 Inventories
Assets held for sale 665 16
Inventory of £3,873 million has increased by £36 million during
Total current assets 16,167 16,036
the year. The increase reflects higher Vaccine stocks, principally
Total assets 41,080 42,230
Cervarix for the national HPV programme in Japan, partly offset
Liabilities by initiatives to reduce manufacturing cycle times and reduce
Current liabilities stockholding days through more efficient use of inventory
Short-term borrowings (2,698) (291) throughout the supply chain.
Trade and other payables (7,359) (6,888) Trade and other receivables
Derivative financial instruments (175) (188)
Current tax payable (1,643) (1,047) Trade and other receivables of £5,576 million have decreased from
Short-term provisions (3,135) (4,380) 2010 reflecting specific actions taken to reduce overdue and other
Total current liabilities (15,010) (12,794) receivables as part of our initiative to reduce working capital.
Derivative financial instruments: liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Long-term borrowings (12,203) (14,809) We held current and non-current derivative financial instruments
Deferred tax liabilities (822) (707) held at fair value of £177 million (2010 – £193 million) relating
Pensions and other post-employment benefits (3,091) (2,672) primarily to foreign exchange contracts which represent hedges
Other provisions (499) (904) of inter-company loans, deposits and legal provisions, but are not
Derivative financial instruments (2) (5) designated as accounting hedges.
Other non-current liabilities (626) (594)
Trade and other payables
Total non-current liabilities (17,243) (19,691)
Total liabilities (32,253) (32,485) Trade and other payables amounting to £7,359 million have
Net assets 8,827 9,745 increased from 2010, reflecting working capital initiatives to extend
supplier terms towards our 60-day term objective.
Equity
Share capital 1,387 1,418 Provisions
Share premium account 1,673 1,428
We carried deferred tax provisions and other short-term and
Retained earnings 3,370 4,779
non-current provisions of £4,456 million at 31 December 2011
Other reserves 1,602 1,262
(2010 – £5,991 million) in respect of estimated future liabilities,
Shareholders’ equity 8,032 8,887
of which £2,772 million (2010 – £4,000 million) related to legal
Non-controlling interests 795 858
and other disputes. Provision has been made for legal and other
Total equity 8,827 9,745 disputes, indemnified disposal liabilities, employee related liabilities
and the costs of restructuring programmes to the extent that at the
balance sheet date a legal or constructive obligation existed and
could be reliably estimated.62 GSK Annual Report 2011
Financial review Financial review continued
& risk
Pensions and other post-employment benefits A summary of the movements in equity is set out below.
We account for pension and other post-employment arrangements
2011 2010
in accordance with IAS 19. The deficits, net of surpluses before £m £m
allowing for deferred taxation were £1,476 million (2010 – Total equity at beginning of year 9,745 10,742
£1,224 million) on pension arrangements and £1,595 million Total comprehensive income for the year 4,424 2,086
(2010 – £1,425 million) on unfunded post-employment liabilities. Dividends to shareholders (3,406) (3,205)
The pension liabilities increased following a decrease in asset values Shares issued 250 62
in the UK, and reductions in the rates used to discount UK pension Changes in non-controlling interests 18 –
liabilities from 5.5% to 4.8% and US pension liabilities from 5.2% Forward contract relating to non-controlling
to 4.4%, partly offset by a lower long term inflation rate and the interest (29) –
deficit reduction contributions of £450 million (2010 – £456 million). Shares purchased and cancelled or held
as Treasury shares (2,191) –
In December 2010, the UK scheme purchased an insurance contract
Consideration received for shares transferred
that will guarantee payment of specified pensioner liabilities. This
by ESOP Trusts 45 17
contract was valued at £735 million at 31 December 2011.
Shares acquired by ESOP Trusts (36) (16)
Net debt Share-based incentive plans 191 175
Tax on share-based incentive plans 50 2
2011 2010 Distributions to non-controlling interests (234) (118)
£m £m
Total equity at end of year 8,827 9,745
Cash, cash equivalents and
liquid investments 5,898 6,241
Share purchases
Borrowings – repayable within one year (2,698) (291)
Borrowings – repayable after one year (12,203) (14,809) In 2011, the Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) Trusts acquired
Net debt (9,003) (8,859) £36 million of shares in GSK plc (2010 – £16 million). Shares are
held by the Trusts to satisfy future exercises of options and awards
Net debt increased by £144 million as free cash flow and asset
under the Group share option and award schemes. A proportion of
disposal proceeds largely funded dividends to shareholders and
the shares held by the Trusts are in respect of awards where the
share repurchases.
rules of the scheme require us to satisfy exercises through market
Movements in net debt purchases rather than the issue of new shares. The shares held by
the Trusts are matched to options and awards granted.
2011 2010
£m £m At 31 December 2011, the ESOP Trusts held 91 million
Net debt at beginning of year (8,859) (9,444) (2010 – 105 million) GSK shares against the future exercise of
Decrease in cash and bank overdrafts (94) (642) share options and share awards. The carrying value of £492 million
Cash inflow from liquid investments (30) (91) (2010 – £845 million) has been deducted from other reserves.
Net repayment of short-term loans (37) 1,290 The market value of these shares was £1,337 million
Debt of subsidiary undertakings acquired (10) (20) (2010 – £1,308 million).
Exchange movements (10) 61
On 3 February 2011, we announced that we would commence a
Other movements 37 (13)
new long-term share buy-back programme. 169.2 million shares
Net debt at end of year (9,003) (8,859)
were repurchased in 2011 at a cost of £2,191 million. (See Note 33
Total equity ‘Share capital’). We intend to make further repurchases of
£1–2 billion during 2012. The exact amount and timing of future
At 31 December 2011, total equity had decreased from
purchases, and whether the shares will be held as Treasury
£9,745 million at 31 December 2010 to £8,827 million. The
shares or be cancelled, will be determined by the company and
decrease arose principally from share repurchases in the year.
is dependent on market conditions and other factors. At
31 December 2011, we held 501.2 million shares as Treasury
shares (2010 – 474.2 million shares), at a cost of £6,661 million
(2010 – £6,286 million), which has been deducted from
retained earnings.
In the period 1 January 2012 to 2 March 2012 8.6 million shares
were purchased at a cost of £122.3 million.
Commitments and contingent liabilities
Financial commitments are summarised in Note 39 to the financial
statements, ‘Commitments’. Other contingent liabilities and
obligations in respect of short and long-term debt are set out in
Note 31 to the financial statements, ‘Contingent liabilities’ and
Note 32 to the financial statements, ‘Net debt’.63 GSK Annual Report 2011
Amounts provided for pensions and post-retirement benefits are Contingent liabilities
set out in Note 28 to the financial statements, ‘Pensions and other
The following table sets out contingent liabilities, comprising
post-employment benefits’. Amounts provided for restructuring
discounted bills, performance guarantees, letters of credit and other
programmes and legal, environmental and other disputes are set
items arising in the normal course of business, and when they are
out in Note 29 to the financial statements, ‘Other provisions’.
expected to expire.
Contractual obligations and commitments
Total Under 1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs+
The following table sets out our contractual obligations and £m £m £m £m £m
commitments at 31 December 2011 as they fall due for payment. Guarantees 112 74 1 1 36
Other contingent liabilities 93 7 43 13 30
Total Under 1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs+
Total 205 81 44 14 66
£m £m £m £m £m
Loans 14,817 2,665 2,581 1,333 8,238 In the normal course of business, we have provided various
Interest on loans 9,491 750 1,194 978 6,569 indemnification guarantees in respect of business disposals
Finance lease obligations 95 34 39 14 8 in which legal and other disputes have subsequently arisen.
Finance lease charges 11 3 6 2 – A provision is made where an outflow of resources is considered
Operating lease probable and a reliable estimate can be made of the likely outcome
commitments 354 113 111 47 83 of the dispute and this is included in Note 29 to the financial
Intangible assets 7,968 467 1,279 1,347 4,875 statements, ‘Other provisions’.
Property, plant & equipment 504 405 94 5 –
Purchase of non-controlling We provide for the outcome of tax, legal and other disputes when
interests 97 15 82 – – an outflow of resources is considered probable and a reliable
Investments 64 17 25 20 2 estimate of the outflow may be made. At 31 December 2011, other
Purchase commitments 882 179 323 243 137 than for those disputes where provision has been made, it was not
Pensions 730 365 365 – – possible to make a reliable estimate of the potential outflow of
Other commitments 190 93 78 19 – funds that might be required to settle disputes where the possibility
Total 35,203 5,106 6,177 4,008 19,912 of there being an outflow was more than remote.
The ultimate liability for such matters may vary significantly from
Commitments in respect of loans and future interest payable
the amounts provided and is dependent upon the outcome of
on loans are disclosed before taking into account the effect
litigation proceedings and negotiations with the relevant tax
of derivatives.
authorities. This is discussed further in ‘Risk factors’ on pages 72
We have entered into a number of research collaborations to to 77 and Notes 14 and 44 to the financial statements, ‘Taxation’
develop new compounds with other pharmaceutical companies. and ‘Legal proceedings’.
The terms of these arrangements can include upfront fees, equity
Cash generation and conversion
investments, loans and commitments to fund specified levels of
research. In addition, we will often agree to make further payments
A summary of the consolidated cash flow is set out below.
if future ‘milestones’ are achieved.
2011 2010
As some of these agreements relate to compounds in the early £m £m
stages of development, milestone payments will continue for a Net cash inflow from operating activities 6,250 6,797
number of years if the compounds move successfully through the Net cash outflow from investing activities (112) (1,868)
development process. Generally the closer the product is to Net cash outflow from financing activities (6,232) (5,571)
marketing approval the greater the possibility of success. The Decrease in cash and bank overdrafts (94) (642)
amounts shown above within intangible assets represent the
Exchange adjustments (108) 81
maximum that would be paid if all milestones were achieved, and
Cash and bank overdrafts at beginning of year 5,807 6,368
include £6.1 billion which relates to externalised projects in the
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year 5,605 5,807
discovery portfolio. A number of new commitments were made
in 2011 under licensing and other agreements, including Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year
arrangements with Theravance, Inc. and Janssen Biologics BV. comprise:
Cash and cash equivalents 5,714 6,057
The commitments for purchase of non-controlling interests and
Overdrafts (109) (250)
investments represent the maximum amounts payable.
5,605 5,807
In 2009, we reached an agreement with the trustees of the UK
The net cash inflow from operating activities after taxation paid
pension schemes to make additional contributions over a five year
was £6,250 million, a decrease of £547 million in sterling terms
period, to eliminate the pension deficit identified at the
compared with 2010.
31 December 2008 actuarial funding valuation. The table above
shows this commitment but excludes the normal ongoing annual The net cash outflow from investing activities was £112 million,
funding requirement of approximately £120 million. For further £1,756 million lower than 2010, which primarily reflected the
information on pension obligations, see Note 28 to the financial proceeds from the disposal of our shareholding in Quest
statements, ‘Pensions and other post-employment benefits’. Diagnostics Inc. and lower purchases of intangible assets during
the year of £405 million (2010 – £621 million).64 GSK Annual Report 2011
Financial review Financial review continued
& risk
Free cash flow Capital expenditure and financial investment
Free cash flow is the amount of cash generated by the business Cash payments for tangible and intangible fixed assets amounted
after meeting its obligations for interest, tax and dividends paid to £1,328 million (2010 – £1,635 million). Disposals realised
to non-controlling interests, and after capital expenditure on £337 million (2010 – £218 million). Cash payments to acquire
non-current tangible and intangible assets. equity investments of £76 million (2010 – £279 million) were made
in the year and sales of equity investments realised £68 million
2011 2010
(2010 – £27 million).
Free cash flow (£m) 4,141 4,486
Free cash flow growth (%) (8)% (15)% Future cash flow
Free cash flow was adversely impacted by legal settlements of We expect that future operating cash flow will be sufficient to fund
£1,466 million (2010 – £2,047 million). Free cash flow excluding our operating and debt service costs, to satisfy normal levels of
legal settlements was £5,607 million in 2011, compared with capital expenditure, to meet obligations under existing licensing
£6,533 million in 2010, the decline reflecting lower contributions agreements, to meet the expenditure arising from the major
from pandemic products, Avandia and Valtrex and a lower restructuring programmes (the precise timing of which is uncertain)
reduction in working capital compared with 2010 partly offset by outlined in Note 7 to the financial statements, ‘Major restructuring
lower restructuring payments and lower tax payments. programmes’ and to meet other routine outflows including tax and
dividends, subject to the ‘Risk factors’ discussed on pages 72 to 77.
Our commitment is to use free cash flow to support increasing
We may from time to time have additional demands for finance,
dividends, undertake share repurchases or, where returns are more
such as for acquisitions and share repurchases. We have access to
attractive, reinvest in the business, including bolt-on acquisitions.
other sources of liquidity from short and long-term capital markets
We also intend to use the net proceeds from the disposals of our
and banks and other financial institutions, in addition to the cash
non-core OTC brands to fund increased returns to shareholders.
flow from operations, for such needs.
A reconciliation of net cash inflow from operating activities,
Working capital
which is the closest equivalent IFRS measure, to free cash flow
is shown below. 2011 2010
Working capital percentage of turnover (%) 21% 23%
Reconciliation of free cash flow
Working capital conversion cycle (days) 210 221
2011 2010
Working capital reduced by £477 million in 2011 compared with a
£m £m
Net cash inflow from operating activities 6,250 6,797 reduction of £1,297 million in 2010. (The reduction in 2010 was
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (923) (1,014) boosted by approximately £600 million of cash related to
Purchase of intangible assets (405) (621) pandemic receivables). Working capital conversion cycle reduced
Disposal of property, plant and equipment 100 92 by 11 days as a result of lower receivables and higher payables.
Interest paid (769) (775) Payment policies
Interest received 97 107
Group companies are responsible for monitoring and managing
Dividends received from joint ventures and
their working capital. The terms of sales collections and supplier
associated undertakings 25 18
payments reflect local commercial practice.
Distributions to non-controlling interests (234) (118)
Free cash flow 4,141 4,486 In the UK, the company and each of its UK subsidiaries have
policies to ensure that suppliers are paid on time. In particular,
Investment appraisal
the UK companies seek:
We have a formal process for assessing potential investment
• t o settle terms of payment with suppliers when agreeing the
proposals in order to ensure decisions are aligned with our overall
terms of the transaction
strategy. This process includes an analysis of the impact of the
project on earnings, its return on invested capital and an • t o ensure that suppliers are made aware of the agreed term s
assessment of the return based on discounted cash flows. of payment
The discount rate used to perform financial analysis is decided • t o abide by the terms of payment.
internally, to allow determination of the extent to which
The policy permits arrangements for accelerated payment to small
investments cover our cost of capital. For specific investments
suppliers.
the discount rate may be adjusted to take into account country
or other risk weightings. Payment performance
At 31 December 2011, the average number of days’ payable
outstanding represented by trade payables of the parent company
was nil (2010 – nil) and in respect of the company and its UK
subsidiaries in aggregate was 61 days (2010 – 50 days).65 GSK Annual Report 2011
Maturity profile of gross debt
£m equivalent
3,000
2,500
2,000
1,500
1,000
500
2012 2013 2014 2015 2017 2018 2025 2033 2034 2038 2039 2042
GBP bonds EUR bonds USD bonds Other bank borrowings Leases
Treasury policies In 2011, we returned all of our free cash flow and asset disposal
proceeds to shareholders through a balance of dividends and
GlaxoSmithKline plc reports in Sterling and pays dividends out of
share buy-backs. We paid out £3.4 billion in dividends and
Sterling profits. The role of Corporate Treasury is to manage and
completed £2.2 billion of share repurchases as part of our
monitor our external and internal funding requirements and
long-term programme. We have also elected to return the net
financial risks in support of our strategic objectives. Treasury
proceeds from the sale of our non-core North American OTC
activities are governed by policies and procedures approved by
brands to shareholders through payment of a supplemental
the Board of Directors, most recently on 14 July 2011.
dividend.
A Treasury Management Group (TMG) meeting chaired by our
For further details see Note 41 to the financial statements ‘Financial
Chief Financial Officer, takes place on a monthly basis to review
instruments and related disclosures’.
treasury activities. Its members receive management information
relating to treasury activities. Liquidity
Capital management As at 31 December 2011, our cash and liquid investments were
held as follows:
Our financial strategy is regularly reviewed by the Board. We
manage the capital structure of the Group through an appropriate
2011 2010
mix of debt and equity that delivers the best returns to shareholders £m £m
whilst maintaining credit ratings that maximise our flexibility to Bank balances and deposits 3,875 5,660
access debt capital markets on attractive terms. US Treasury and Treasury repo
only money market funds 1,839 360
The capital structure of the Group consists of net debt of
Corporate debt instruments 9 10
£9.0 billion(see Note 32, ‘Net debt’) and shareholders’ equity of
Government securities 175 211
£8.0 billion (see ’Consolidated statement of changes in equity‘
5,898 6,241
on page 139). Total capital, including that provided by non-
controlling interests of £0.8 billion, is £17.8 billion.
Our centrally managed cash reserves amounted to £3.6 billion at
We allocate capital where it can deliver the best returns for our 31 December 2011, all available within 3 months. This excludes
shareholders. Our commitment is to use free cash flow to support £0.5 billion centrally managed cash held by ViiV Healthcare, an
dividends, undertake share repurchases or, where returns are more 85% owned subsidiary. As at that date we had short-term
attractive, invest in bolt-on acquisitions. Investment opportunities borrowings repayable within one year of £2.7 billion. We had
will continue to be assessed against strict financial criteria. net debt of £9.0 billion at 31 December 2011. The table below
summarises cash and gross debt after the effects of hedging.
With significant levels of patent or trademark protection, our
pharmaceutical products compete largely on product efficacy
2011 2010
or differentiation rather than on price. Selling margins are sufficient
£m £m
to cover normal operating costs and our operations continue to Cash and liquid investments 5,898 6,241
be highly cash generative. Before legal settlements of £1.5 billion, Gross debt – fixed (13,621) (13,741)
net cash inflow from operating activities was £7.7 billion in 2011. – floating (1,279) (1,358)
Free cash flow was £4.1 billion. – non-interest bearing (1) (1)
Net debt (9,003) (8,859)66 GSK Annual Report 2011
Financial review Financial review continued
& risk
Our policy is to borrow centrally in order to meet anticipated Interest rate risk management
funding requirements. The cash flow forecast and funding
GSK’s objective is to reduce our effective net interest cost and to
requirements are monitored by the TMG on a monthly basis.
rebalance the mix of debt at fixed and floating interest rates over
We have a European Medium Term Note programme of £15 billion. time. The policy on interest rate risk management limits the amount
At 31 December 2011, we had £8.2 billion of notes in issue under of floating interest payments to a prescribed percentage of
this programme. We also have a US shelf registration statement. trading profit.
At 31 December 2011, we had $10.0 billion (£6.5 billion) of notes
We use a series of interest rate swaps to redenominate one of our
in issue under this programme.
bonds into floating interest rates. The duration of this swap
GSK’s long-term borrowings mature at dates between 2013 and matches the duration of the principal instrument. Interest rate
2042. Our long-term debt ratings have remained unchanged since derivative instruments are accounted for as fair value or cash flow
February 2008. Currently GSK is rated A+ stable outlook by hedges of the relevant assets or liabilities.
Standard and Poor’s and A1 stable outlook by Moody’s Investors
Foreign exchange risk management
Service (‘Moody’s’). Our short-term debt ratings are A-1 and P-1
with Standard and Poor’s and Moody’s respectively. Foreign currency transaction exposures arising on internal and
external trade flows are not hedged. The exposure of overseas
GSK has access to short-term finance under a US$10 billion
operating subsidiaries to transaction risk is minimised by matching
commercial paper programme and $4.4 billion of committed
local currency income with local currency costs. For this purpose, our
facilities. The facilities were last renewed in October 2011, and were
internal trading transactions are matched centrally and we manage
increased from $3.9 billion to $4.4 billion at that time. We consider
inter-company payment terms to reduce foreign currency risk.
this level of committed facilities to be adequate given current
Exceptional foreign currency cash flows can be hedged selectively
liquidity requirements. For further information on these facilities,
under the management of Corporate Treasury and the TMG. Where
please refer to Note 32 to the financial statements, ‘Net debt’.
possible, we manage the cash surpluses or borrowing requirements
As well as our committed facilities GSK also had substantial cash of subsidiary companies centrally using forward contracts to hedge
and cash equivalents and liquid investments, which amounted to future repayments back into the originating currency.
£5.9 billion at 31 December 2011. In 2011 we reviewed our cash
In order to reduce foreign currency translation exposure, we seek to
balances relative to our debt portfolio and the sources of the debt
denominate borrowings in the currencies of our principal assets and
that we access in order to improve the efficiency of our balance
cash flows. These are primarily denominated in US dollars, Euros
sheet. As a result, we intend to reduce our effective net funding
and Sterling. Certain borrowings can be swapped into other
cost by maintaining a lower level of cash and by diversifying our
currencies as required.
sources of funding given the current low interest rate environment.
Borrowings denominated in, or swapped into, foreign currencies
Treasury operations
that match investments in overseas Group assets may be treated as
The objective of treasury activity is to manage the post-tax net cost a hedge against the relevant assets. Forward contracts are also used
or income of financial operations to the benefit of earnings. in major currencies to reduce our exposure to our investment in
Corporate Treasury does not operate as a profit centre. We use a overseas Group assets. The TMG reviews the ratio of borrowings to
variety of financial instruments to finance our operations and assets for major currencies monthly.
derivative financial instruments to manage market risks from
Counterparty risk management
these operations. These derivatives, principally comprising forward
foreign currency contracts, interest rate and currency swaps, are Our policy on counterparty risk management is to work with a
used to swap borrowings and liquid assets into our required select group of relationship banks. Global counterparty limits are
currencies and to manage exposure to funding risks from changes assigned to each of GSK’s banking and investment counterparties
in foreign exchange and interest rates. based on long-term credit ratings from Moody’s and Standard
and Poor’s. Corporate Treasury’s usage of these limits is
We do not hold or issue derivatives for speculative purposes. Our
monitored daily by a Corporate Compliance Officer (CCO) who
treasury policies specifically prohibit such activity. All transactions in
operates independently of Corporate Treasury. Any breach of
financial instruments are undertaken to manage the risks arising
these limits is reported to the CFO immediately. The CCO also
from underlying business activities, not for speculation.
monitors the credit rating of these counterparties and, when
changes in ratings occur, notifies Corporate Treasury so that
changes can be made to investment levels or authority limits as
appropriate. A full counterparty analysis is presented to the TMG
annually for approval.67 GSK Annual Report 2011
Financial review 2010 Anti-virals
Anti-virals decreased 56% to £1.1 billion.
In accordance with US SEC disclosure requirements, the following
discussion compares results for the year to 31 December 2010 with Relenza sales were £121 million (2009 – £720 million), down 84%,
the results for the year to 31 December 2009. against the previous year where significant government pandemic
orders were received. Valtrex sales declined 60% to £532 million
Financial information and the discussion that follows is presented
reflecting generic competition in the USA and Europe.
on the basis that GSK was organised and managed in 2010.
Central nervous system (CNS)
Pharmaceutical turnover
CNS sales decreased 8% to £1.8 billion.
All growth rates included in the review of turnover are at constant
exchange rates (CER) unless otherwise stated. The calculation of The majority of our CNS franchise was impacted by generic
underlying turnover is described on page 51. Sterling growth rates competition in the USA. The Wellbutrin decline of 39% primarily
may be found in the tables of pharmaceutical turnover by reflected the sale of Wellbutrin XL in the USA to Biovail in the
therapeutic areas on page 225 and by geographic segment below. second quarter of 2009.
Pharmaceutical turnover declined 2% to £23.4 billion. Excluding Cardiovascular and urogenital
pandemic products, Avandia and Valtrex, underlying turnover
Cardiovascular and urogenital sales increased 11% to £2.6 billion,
increased by 4%.
reflecting continued strong growth of key products such as
Arixtra, up 19% to £301 million, Avodart, up 18% to
2010 2009 Growth*
£629 million, and Lovaza, up 17% to £530 million.
£m £m CER% £%
USA 7,648 8,578 (11) (11) Metabolic
Europe 6,548 7,087 (6) (8)
Metabolic sales decreased 44% to £0.7 billion.
Emerging Markets 3,556 2,895 22 23
Avandia product sales declined by 44% to £440 million. On
Asia Pacific/Japan 3,102 2,628 9 18
23 September 2010 the European Medicines Agency suspended
ViiV Healthcare 1,566 1,605 (3) (2)
marketing authorisation for all rosiglitazone containing products,
Other 962 901 (1) 7
including Avandia, and the US Food and Drug Administration
23,382 23,694 (2) (1) announced additional measures to ensure the benefits of Avandia
continue to outweigh its risks, including a Risk Evaluation and
Sales in the USA declined 11% to £7.6 billion, primarily due to
Mitigation Strategy (REMS) programme.
generic competition to Valtrex, a significant reduction in sales of
pandemic related products and lower sales of Avandia. New Oncology and emesis
products (excluding pandemic vaccines) launched since 2007 grew
Oncology and emesis sales increased 9% to £0.7 billion.
29% and contributed 8% of 2010 sales.
Tyverb/Tykerb, up 34% to £227 million, grew strongly in all
Europe pharmaceuticals sales declined 6% to £6.5 billion, primarily
segments. Newly launched oncology products Votrient, Arzerra
due to the impact of a significant reduction in sales of pandemic
and Promacta delivered sales of £38 million, £31 million and
related products, generic competition to Valtrex and lower sales
£31 million, respectively.
of Avandia.
Vaccines
Emerging Markets pharmaceuticals sales grew 22% to £3.6 billion,
with strong growth across most product categories and also Total vaccine sales grew 15% to £4.3 billion, including £1.2 billion
helped by pandemic related product sales of £227 million of pandemic vaccine sales (2009 – £883 billion). Excluding flu
(2009 – £89 million. Asia Pacific/Japan pharmaceuticals sales pandemic vaccine sales, growth was 10%. Several new vaccines
grew 9% to £3.1 billion. contributed to this growth including Synflorix, more than doubling
to £221 million, Boostrix, up 29% to £181 million and Cervarix,
Pharmaceutical turnover by therapeutic area up 26% to £242 million. Sales of Hepatitis vaccines grew 7% to
£720 million, Infanrix/Pediarix grew 8% to £700 million and
Pharmaceutical turnover declined by 2% in 2010 as the impact of
seasonal flu sales grew 14% to £241 million. Rotarix sales were
generic competition to Valtrex, lower Avandia and pandemic
down 18% to £235 million, as the product continues to recover
product sales was partly offset by growth of key products such as
market share lost following its temporary suspension from several
Seretide/Advair, Avamys/Veramyst, Avodart, Lovaza, Tyverb/Tykerb,
markets earlier in the year.
Ventolin and the vaccines franchise.
Dermatology
Respiratory
Dermatology sales were £1.1 billion, including heritage GSK
Respiratory sales increased 3% to £7.2 billion.
products and those acquired through business acquisitions,
Seretide/Advair sales grew 2% to £5.1 billion, with strong growth principally Stiefel in July 2009. The estimated sales growth in 2010
in Japan, up 17% to £246 million and Emerging Markets, up for the business on a pro-forma basis, excluding 2010 acquisitions,
16% to £328 million. Sales in the USA were level at £2.6 billion was approximately 6%. In addition, our heritage consumer
and grew 2% in Europe to £1.6 billion. dermatology portfolio, reported within Consumer Healthcare,
contributed sales of £256 million, up 8%.
Several other respiratory products delivered growth including
Avamys/Veramyst, up 33% to £193 million, Ventolin, up 8%
to £522 million and Flovent, up 2% to £804 million.68 GSK Annual Report 2011
Financial review Financial review continued
& risk
ViiV Healthcare (HIV) The restructuring costs incurred in 2010 as a direct result of the
acquisition of Stiefel Laboratories, Inc. in July 2009, were £103 million
Sales of HIV products by ViiV Healthcare were down 3% to
(2009 – £71 million). The restructuring costs incurred as a direct result
£1.6 billion. Sales of the former Pfizer products Selzentry and
of the acquisition of Reliant Pharmaceuticals Inc., the only other
Viracept, with combined sales of £118 million and growth from
acquisition since October 2007 that meets the criteria set out above,
Epzicom/Kivexa, up 1% to £555 million, were offset by reductions
were all charged and paid in 2008.
in the sales from other HIV products including Trizivir, down 28%
to £144 million, Combivir, down 16% to £363 million and Epivir, Only the restructuring costs incurred solely as a direct result of
down 12% to £115 million. the Operational Excellence programme and the restructuring
programmes following the Reliant and Stiefel acquisitions have
Consumer Healthcare turnover
been reported in the major restructuring column in the income
2010 % of 2009 Growth* statement. As set out in Note 7 to the financial statements,
£m total £m CER% £% ‘Major restructuring programme’, asset impairments and staff
Over-the-counter redundancies together accounted for £753 million of the
medicines 2,456 49 2,339 3 5 £1,348 million restructuring costs incurred in 2010 and reported
in the major restructuring column.
Oral healthcare 1,602 32 1,484 6 8
Nutritional healthcare 952 19 851 9 12 For the latest position on Results before major restructuring and
total results see Results before major restructuring and total results
5,010 100 4,674 5 7
in the 2011 Financial review on page 55.
* CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates. £% represents
growth at actual exchange rates. Operating profit, profit before taxation, taxation and profit for the
year are discussed below in terms of both total results, which
Total Consumer Healthcare sales were up 5% to £5.0 billion,
include major restructuring costs, and results before
significantly exceeding market growth estimated by GSK to be
major restructuring.
approximately 2%. Sales in the Rest of World grew 13% to
Profit before tax – total results
£2.0 billion, driven by strong growth in India and China, which
grew by 19% and 18%, respectively. Europe sales were level Total results include restructuring costs related to the Operational
with last year with sales of £2.0 billion and the business in the Excellence programme and the acquisitions of Reliant and Stiefel.
USA grew 1% to £1.0 billion.
2010 2009 Growth
OTC medicines
£m % £m % CER% £%
OTC product sales grew 3% to £2.4 billion in 2010, driven by Turnover 28,392 100 28,368 100 (1) –
sales of Panadol, nicotine replacement therapy products and Cost of sales (7,592) (26.7) (7,380) (26.0) 3 3
dermatology products, partly offset by lower respiratory tract Selling, general
products and lower sales of alli. and administration (13,053) (46.0) (9,592) (33.8) 36 36
Research and
Oral healthcare
development (4,457) (15.7) (4,106) (14.4) 8 9
Sales of Oral healthcare products rose 6% to £1.6 billion. Sensodyne Other operating
performed strongly and denture care sales also grew. Sales of income 493 1.7 1,135 3.9
Aquafresh declined slightly. Operating profit 3,783 13.3 8,425 29.7 (59) (55)
Nutritional healthcare Cost of sales
Nutritional healthcare sales grew 9% to £1.0 billion, driven by the Cost of sales increased to 26.7% of turnover (2009 – 26.0%)
strong performance of Horlicks and growth in Lucozade sales. reflecting the impact of generic competition to higher margin
Results before major restructuring and total results products in the USA (principally Valtrex), lower Avandia sales, US
healthcare reforms and European austerity price cuts, and inventory
In October 2007 we announced a significant new Operational
and other asset write-downs, partially offset by savings from the
Excellence restructuring programme. A second formal plan,
Operational Excellence programme and lower restructuring costs of
was announced in February 2009 and a further expansion was
£187 million (2009 – £285 million).
announced in February 2010.
Selling, general and administration
In addition to the restructuring costs of the Operational Excellence
programme, the major restructuring column in the income SG&A costs as a percentage of turnover increased by
statement includes restructuring costs incurred solely as a direct 12.2 percentage points to 46.0%. Excluding legal costs of
result of any restructuring programmes that follow, and relate to, £4,001 million (2009 – £591 million), SG&A costs were 31.9% of
material acquisitions where the operations of the acquired business turnover (2009 – 31.7%). The increase of 0.2 percentage points
overlap extensively with our existing operations. reflected a 1% Sterling (1% CER) increase in SG&A on a flat
sterling turnover growth. SG&A included restructuring costs of
The restructuring activities that follow, and relate to, these
£665 million (2009 – £392 million), investment in growth markets
acquisitions are of the same nature as those undertaken under the
and the full year impact of the acquisition of Stiefel partly offset by
Operational Excellence programme. We consider it appropriate to
operational excellence savings in the USA and Europe and lower
present the costs of these restructuring activities in the same manner.
exchange losses on inter-company transactions. Advertising and
promotion declined 1%, selling and distribution increased 1%
and general and administration excluding legal increased 2%.69 GSK Annual Report 2011
Research and development Profit before taxation – total results
R&D expenditure was 15.7% of total turnover (2009 – 14.4%) Taking account of net finance costs, the profit on disposal of
reflecting an increase in expenditure of 9% sterling (8% CER) interest in associates and the share of profits of associates, total
on a flat sterling turnover growth. This included restructuring profit before taxation was £3,157 million compared with
costs of £493 million (2009 – £155 million), ViiV Healthcare R&D £7,891 million in 2009, a 64% CER decline and a 60%
investments and lower intangible asset impairments of £126 million sterling decline.
(2009 – £167 million) and savings from the Operational Excellence
Profit before tax – results before major restructuring
programme. In addition, the comparison to prior year was
unfavourably impacted by the one-off recognition of a recoverable The results before major restructuring are set out below:
balance in 2009.
2010 2009 Growth
Other operating income
£m % £m % CER% £%
Other operating income was £493 million (2009 – £1,135 million) Turnover 28,392 100 28,368 100 (1) –
primarily reflecting royalty income of £296 million (2009 –
Cost of sales (7,405) (26.1) (7,095) (25.0) 4 4
£296 million), income from the transfer to Genentech of the
Selling, general
exclusive promotion rights to Boniva in the USA, and asset disposals
of £134 million (2009 – £875 million), partially offset by equity and administration (12,388) (43.6) (9,200) (32.4) 35 35
investment impairments of £65 million (2009 – £135 million). The Research and
2009 income included the disposal of Wellbutrin XL, various asset development (3,964) (14.0) (3,951) (13.9) – –
disposals to Aspen Pharmacare, a royalty dispute settlement gain of Other operating
£78 million and the accounting gain of £296 million on the creation income 493 1.8 1,135 3.9
of ViiV Healthcare.
Operating profit 5,128 18.1 9,257 32.6 (48) (45)
Operating profit – total results
Cost of sales
Operating profit after restructuring charges of £1,345 million
(2009 – £832 million) was £3,783 million, a decrease of 59% CER Cost of sales increased to 26.1% of turnover (2009 – 25.0%)
(a decrease of 55% in sterling terms) compared with 2009. reflecting the impact of generic competition to higher margin
Excluding legal costs of £4,001 million (2009 – £591 million), products in the USA (principally Valtrex), lower Avandia sales,
operating profit was £7,784 million an 18% decline in CER terms US healthcare reforms and European austerity price cuts, and
(14% in sterling terms) principally reflecting a 1% decline in inventory and other asset write-downs, partially offset by savings
turnover, higher cost of sales, higher R&D expenditure and lower from the Operational Excellence programme.
other operating income.
Selling, general and administration
Net finance costs
SG&A costs as a percentage of turnover increased by 11.2
2010 2009 percentage points to 43.6%, primarily reflecting higher legal
Finance income £m £m charges of £4,001 million (2009 – £591 million).
Interest and other finance income 102 67
Excluding legal costs SG&A costs were 29.5% of turnover
Unwinding of discounts on assets 1 2
(2009 – 30.3%). The decrease of 0.8 percentage points reflected a
Fair value adjustments and hedges 13 1
3% Sterling (2% CER) decline in expenditure compared with prior
116 70
year on a flat sterling turnover growth. The decline in expenditure
Finance costs reflected operational excellence savings in the USA and Europe and
Interest costs (767) (770) lower exchange losses on inter-company transactions, partially
Unwinding of discounts on liabilities (18) (11) offset by investment in growth markets and the full year impact of
Fair value adjustments and hedges (21) (2) the acquisition of Stiefel.
Other finance expense (25) – Advertising and promotion declined 1%, selling and distribution
(831) (783) declined 4% and general and administration excluding legal
declined 1%. Collectively these items accounted for a 2% decline
Profit on disposal of interest in associates
in total SG&A.
Profit on disposal of interest in associates was £8 million
Research and development
(2009 – £115 million). The 2009 profit arose from the sale of
5.7 million Quest shares. Subsequent to the 2010 year-end the R&D expenditure was 14.0% of total turnover (2009 – 13.9%)
Group sold its entire shareholding in Quest, which will give rise to reflecting flat expenditure on a flat sterling turnover growth.
a pre-tax profit on disposal of associates in 2011 of approximately This included savings from the Operational Excellence
£600 million (£250 million after tax). programme, lower intangible asset impairments of £126 million
(2009 – £167 million) and higher ViiV Healthcare R&D
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures
investment. The comparison to prior year was unfavourably
The share of after tax profits of associates of £81 million impacted by the one-off recognition of a recoverable balance
(2009 – £64 million) arose principally from the Group’s holding in 2009.
in Quest.70 GSK Annual Report 2011
Financial review Financial review continued
& risk
Other operating income Taxation charge
Other operating income was £493 million (2009 – £1,135 million)
2010 2009
primarily reflecting royalty income of £296 million £m £m
(2009 – £296 million), income from the transfer to Genentech of UK corporation tax at the UK statutory rate 82 600
the exclusive promotion rights to Boniva in the USA, and asset Less double taxation relief (156) (183)
disposals of £134 million (2009 – £875 million), partially offset by (74) 417
equity investment impairments of £65 million (2009 – £135 Overseas taxation 1,496 1,997
million). The 2009 income included the disposal of Wellbutrin XL, Current taxation 1,422 2,414
various asset disposals to Aspen Pharmacare, a royalty dispute Deferred taxation (118) (192)
settlement gain of £78 million and the accounting gain of Taxation on total profits 1,304 2,222
£296 million on the creation of ViiV Healthcare.
The lower tax charge for 2010 reflects higher legal charges of
Operating profit – results before major restructuring £4 billion (2009 – £0.6 billion).
Operating profit before major restructuring for the year ended The charge for taxation on total profits amounted to £1,304 million
31 December 2010 was £5,128 million, a 48% decline in CER terms and represented an effective tax rate of 41.3% (2009 – 28.2%).
(a decrease of 45% in sterling terms). Excluding legal costs of
The charge for taxation on profit before major restructuring
£4,001 million (2009 – £591 million), operating profit was
charges amounted to £1,544 million and represented an effective
£9,129 million, an 11% decline in CER terms (a decrease of 7% in
tax rate of 34.3% (2009 – 28.0%).
sterling terms) principally reflecting a 1% decline in turnover, higher
cost of sales, higher R&D expenditure and lower other operating For the latest position on taxation see ‘Taxation’ in the Financial
income partly offset by reduced SG&A costs. Operating profit review on page 58.
margin excluding legal costs and other operating income was Profit for the year
30.4% in 2010.
Net finance costs 2010 2009 Growth
£m £m CER% £%
Total profit after taxation
2010 2009
Finance income £m £m for the year 1,853 5,669 (71) (67)
Interest and other income 102 67 Total profit attributable to
Unwinding of discounts on assets 1 2 shareholders 1,634 5,531 (75) (70)
Fair value adjustments and hedges 13 1 Basic earnings per share (pence) 32.1p 109.1p (75) (71)
116 70 Basic earnings per ADS (US$) $1.00 $3.40
Results before major restructuring
Finance costs
profit after taxation for the year 2,961 6,283 (56) (53)
Interest costs (767) (770)
Results before major restructuring
Unwinding of discounts on liabilities (15) (8)
profit attributable to shareholders 2,742 6,145 (59) (55)
Fair value adjustments and hedges (21) (2)
Adjusted earnings per share (pence) 53.9p 121.2p (59) (56)
Other finance expense (25) –
Adjusted earnings per ADS (US$) $1.67 $3.78
(828) (780)
Weighted average number
Net interest payable for the year was £712 million (2009 – of shares (millions) 5,085 5,069
£710 million) and the company expects a similar charge in 2011. Diluted total earnings per share (pence) 31.9p 108.2p
Diluted total earnings per ADS (US$) $0.99 $3.38
Profit on disposal of interest in associate
Diluted weighted average number
Profit on disposal of interest in associates was £8 million of shares (millions) 5,128 5,108
(2009 – £115 million). The 2009 profit arose from the sale of
Total results including restructuring costs produced a basic EPS of
5.7 million Quest shares. Subsequent to the 2010 year-end, GSK
32.1p compared with 109.1p in 2009. This was a 75% decline in
sold its entire shareholding in Quest, which will give rise to a
CER terms and a 71% decline in sterling terms. Excluding major
pre-tax profit on disposal of associates of approximately
restructuring costs, EPS was 53.9p compared with 121.2p. This was
£600 million (£250 million after tax).
a 59% decline at CER and a 56% decrease in sterling terms. The
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures 3 percentage point currency benefit arose from the weakness of
Sterling against most major international currencies compared with
The share of after tax profits of associates of £81 million
last year, partly offset by the strengthening of Sterling against
(2009 – £64 million) arose principally from the Group’s holding
the Euro.
in Quest Diagnostics Inc.
Dividend
Profit before taxation – results before major restructuring
We declared a fourth interim dividend of 19 pence per share
Taking account of net finance costs, the profit on disposal of
resulting in a dividend for the year of 65 pence, a 4 pence increase
interests in associates and the share of profits of associates, profit
on the 61 pence per share for 2009.
before tax before major restructuring was £4,505 million compared
with £8,726 million in 2009, a 52% CER decline and a 48% decline
in sterling terms.71 GSK Annual Report 2011
Property, plant and equipment Provisions
The total cost of our property, plant and equipment at The Group carried deferred tax provisions and other short-term and
31 December 2010 was £18,895 million, with a net book value non-current provisions of £5,991 million at 31 December 2010
of £9,045 million. Of this, land and buildings represented (2009 – £3,886 million) in respect of estimated future liabilities,
£3,729 million, plant and equipment £3,144 million and assets in of which £4,000 million (2009 – £2,020 million) related to legal
construction £2,172 million. In 2010, GSK invested £1,038 million and other disputes. During 2010, we reached settlements and
in new and renewal property, plant and equipment. At agreements in principle to settle a number of significant legal
31 December 2010, we had capital contractual commitments disputes. The settlements and agreements in principle to settle
for future expenditure of £377 million and operating lease included an investigation by the US Government of our former
commitments of £415 million. manufacturing facility at Cidra, Puerto Rico, product liability and
anti-trust litigation relating to Paxil, product liability cases
Goodwill
regarding Avandia, Paxil and Poligrip in the USA, and an
Goodwill has increased during the year from £3,361 million at investigation by the US Government into our sales and marketing
31st December 2009 to £3,606 million. The increase primarily practices in the USA. The settlement process involving discussions
reflects the goodwill arising on the acquisition of Laboratorios with plaintiffs’ lawyers and government prosecutors for these
Phoenix S.A.I.C.yF. of £72 million and the impact of strengthening matters facilitated our ability to make updated assessments of the
overseas currencies. potential exposure we faced in each of these matters, and the legal
charge for the full year was increased to £4,001 million. The
Other intangible assets
resulting provision for legal and other disputes of £4.0 billion at
The net book value of other intangible assets as at 31 December 31 December 2010 includes the best estimate of the amounts
2010 was £8,532 million (2009 – £8,183 million). The increase in expected to be necessary to resolve those disputes, and based on
2010 reflected additions of £252 million through business the known facts and circumstances at the date of approval of
combinations, and currency movements, partly offset by the these financial statements, our Directors did not believe that any
amortisation and impairment of existing intangibles. material additional legal charge should be necessary in respect of
those disputes.
Investments
Net debt
We held investments, including associates and joint ventures,
with a carrying value at 31 December 2010 of £1,792 million Net debt decreased by £585 million to £8,859 million at
(2009 – £1,349 million). The market value at 31 December 2010 31 December 2010, due to the free cash flow generated by the
was £2,688 million (2009 – £2,225 million). company exceeding the amounts paid in dividends to shareholders
and invested in new businesses.
Derivative financial instruments: assets
Total equity
We had both non-current and current derivative financial
instruments held at fair value of £190 million (2009 – £197 million). At 31 December 2010, total equity had decreased from
The small decrease primarily reflects a decrease in net investment £10,742 million at 31 December 2009 to £9,745 million. The
hedging volumes. decrease arose principally from the increased provision for legal
charges in the year.
Inventories
Cash flow
Inventory of £3,837 million has decreased by £227 million during
the year. The decrease reflected initiatives to reduce manufacturing The net cash inflow from operating activities after taxation paid
cycle times and reduce stockholding days through more efficient was £6,797 million, a decrease of £1,044 million over 2009
use of inventory throughout the supply chain. reflecting higher legal settlements in the year partly offset by a
net working capital reduction.
Trade and other receivables
The net cash outflow from investing activities was £1,868 million,
Trade and other receivables of £5,793 million decreased from 2009
a decrease of £2,145 million which primarily reflected lower
reflecting the recovery of significant levels of H1N1 debt during the
business purchases during 2010 of £354 million. In 2009 business
year and specific actions taken to reduce overdue and other
purchases were £2,792 million, primarily Stiefel Laboratories, Inc.
receivables as part of an initiative to reduce working capital.
In addition purchases of property, plant and equipment were lower
Derivative financial instruments: liabilities by £404 million in 2010.
We held current and non-current derivative financial instruments Capital expenditure and financial investment
held at fair value of £193 million (2009 – £168 million current)
Cash payments for tangible and intangible fixed assets amounted
relating primarily to hedging exchange on translation of currency
to £1,635 million (2009 – £1,873 million). Disposals realised
assets on consolidation. The small increase reflects marginally
£218 million (2009 – £404 million). Cash payments to acquire
higher currency volatility on the Euro, US dollar and Yen.
equity investments of £279 million (2009 – £154 million) were
Trade and other payables made in the year and sales of equity investments realised
Trade and other payables amounting to £6,888 million have £27 million (2009 – £59 million).
increased from 2009, reflecting working capital initiatives to
extend supplier terms towards our 60-day term objective and a
strengthening of year-end foreign exchange rates.72 GSK Annual Report 2011
Financial review Risk factors
& risk
Risk factors New product candidates may appear promising in development
but, after significant investment of Group economic and human
There are risks and uncertainties relevant to the Group’s business, resources, may fail to reach the market or may have only limited
financial condition and results of operations that may affect the commercial success. This, for example, could be as a result of
Group’s performance and ability to achieve its objectives. The efficacy or safety concerns, an inability to obtain necessary
factors below are among those that the Group believes could cause regulatory approvals, difficulty manufacturing or excessive
its actual results to differ materially from expected and historical manufacturing costs, erosion of patent coverage as a result of a
results. There are other risks and uncertainties that may affect the lengthy development period, infringement of patents or other
Group’s performance and ability to achieve its objectives that are intellectual property rights of others or an inability to differentiate
not currently known to the Group, or which are deemed immaterial. the product adequately from those with which it competes.
Furthermore, health authorities such as the US Food and Drug
The Group reviews and assesses significant risks on a regular basis
Administration, the European Medicines Agency and the Japan
and has implemented an oversight programme to help ensure that
Pharmaceuticals and Medicines Device Agency have increased their
there is a system of internal control in place. This system includes
focus on safety and product differentiation when assessing the
policies and procedures, communication and training programmes,
benefit/risk balance of drugs, which has made it more difficult for
supervision and monitoring and processes for escalating issues to
pharmaceutical and vaccine products to gain regulatory approval.
the appropriate level of senior management. Such a system helps
facilitate the Group’s ability to respond appropriately to risks and to There is also increasing pressure on healthcare budgets as a result
achieve Group objectives and helps ensure compliance with of the financial crisis, the increase in the average age of the
applicable laws, regulations and internal policies. The Group’s population in developed markets, and the increase in the absolute
management of risks is further discussed on pages 91 to 94 population in developing markets. Payers therefore, increasingly
‘Corporate Governance’. have demanded greater incremental benefit from pharmaceutical
and vaccine products before agreeing to reimburse drug
It is not possible, however, for the Group to implement controls to
manufacturers at prices manufacturers consider appropriate. A
respond to all the risks that it may face, and there can be no
failure to develop commercially successful products or to develop
assurance that the steps the Group has taken to address certain
additional uses for existing products for any of these reasons could
risks will manage these risks effectively or at all. The six principal
materially and adversely affect the Group’s financial results.
risks and uncertainties that might affect GSK’s business are broken
down in the following areas: Intellectual property protection
Risk that R&D will not deliver commercially successful Failure to obtain effective intellectual property
new products protection for our products
The Group operates in highly competitive markets. In the As an innovator pharmaceutical, vaccine and consumer healthcare
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines businesses, it faces competition from company, the Group seeks to obtain appropriate intellectual
proprietary products of large, international manufacturers and from property protection for our products. Our ability to obtain and
producers of generic pharmaceuticals. The Pharmaceuticals and enforce patents and other proprietary rights with regard to our
Vaccines businesses also face increasing competition from products is critical to the Group’s business strategy and success.
manufacturers in emerging markets, with a lower cost In a number of markets in which the Group operates, the
manufacturing base than that of the Group. In the Consumer intellectual property laws and patent offices are still developing,
Healthcare business, the Group likewise faces competition from and some markets may be unwilling to extend intellectual property
large, international consumer healthcare companies as well as local protection to innovative products in a fashion similar to markets in
consumer healthcare companies. Significant product innovations, more developed regions such as the European Union, Japan and
technical advances or the intensification of price competition by the USA or to enforce previously granted intellectual property
competitors may materially and adversely affect the Group’s rights. The Group’s inability to obtain and enforce effective
financial results in the three businesses. The Group cannot always intellectual property protection for our products in certain markets
predict the timing or impact of competitive products or their could have a material adverse result on the Group’s financial results.
potential impact on sales of the Group’s products. In light of the
In some of the countries in which the Group operates, patent
competitive environment in which the Group operates, continued
protection may be significantly weaker than in the USA or the
development of commercially viable new products as well as the
European Union. Some developing countries have reduced, or
development of additional uses for existing products is critical to
threatened to reduce, effective patent protection for
the Group’s ability to replace sales of older products that decline
pharmaceutical products generally, or in particular therapeutic
upon expiration of exclusive rights, and to increase overall sales.
areas, to facilitate early competition within their markets from
Developing new pharmaceutical and vaccine products is a costly, generic manufacturers. Any loss of patent protection, including
lengthy and uncertain process. A new product candidate can fail at reducing the scope of patent rights or compulsory licensing (in
any stage of the development process, and one or more late stage which a government forces a manufacturer to license its intellectual
product candidates could fail to receive regulatory approval. property to a competitor), could materially and adversely affect the
Group’s financial results in those markets. Absence of adequate
patent protection could limit the opportunity to rely on such
markets for future sales growth for the Group’s products.73 GSK Annual Report 2011
Expiry of intellectual property rights protection on the Potential changes in intellectual property laws and
Group’s products and on competitive products; regulations
Competition from generic manufacturers
Proposals to change existing patent and data exclusivity laws and
Pharmaceutical and vaccine products are usually only protected regulations in major markets in which the Group sells its products
from being copied by generic manufacturers during the period of are a continuing feature of the political process in those countries.
exclusivity provided by an issued patent or related intellectual These include proposals that could have the effect of making
property rights such as Regulatory Data Protection or Orphan prosecution of patents for new products more difficult and time
Drug status. Following expiry of intellectual property rights consuming or that could adversely affect the exclusivity period for
protection, a generic manufacturer may produce a generic version the Group’s products, including biological products. Should such
of the product. proposals be enacted, they may materially and adversely affect the
Group’s financial results. For example, in 2010, as part of the
The Group faces intense competition from manufacturers of
comprehensive healthcare reform in the USA, the Biologics Price
generic pharmaceutical products in all of its major markets.
Competition and Innovation Act was enacted which introduced
Introduction of generic products, particularly in the USA where
new regulations for ‘follow-on’ biologics that allow a sufficiently
the Group has its highest turnover and margins, typically leads
similar biologic to be able to rely on an innovator’s approval
to a dramatic loss of sales and reduces the Group’s revenues
following a 12-year data exclusivity period. Regulations outlining
and margins for its proprietary products. The Group had eleven
the requirements for establishing biosimilars and interchangeable
pharmaceutical and vaccine products with over £500 million in
products, as well as the operation of complicated patent litigation
annual global sales in 2011. For certain of these products there
provisions, have not yet been proposed by the FDA. In Europe,
is generic competition in the USA and some markets in Europe.
the EMA has finalised guidelines for similar biological medicinal
In addition, the timing and impact of entry for a ‘follow-on’
products containing MAbs (Monoclonal antibodies).
product to Seretide/Advair that contains the same active
ingredients is uncertain. The loss of patent protection for some or all of the Group’s
products could have a material adverse impact on sales of the
The US patent for compositions containing the combination of
Group’s products.
active substances in Seretide/Advair expired during 2010.
The outlook for the timing and impact of entry of ‘follow-on’ Risk of substantial adverse outcome of litigation and
competition is uncertain. GSK has not been notified of any government investigations
acceptance by the US FDA of an application for a ‘follow-on’ product
Note 44 to the financial statements, ’Legal proceedings’, contains a
that refers to Seretide/Advair and contains the same active
discussion of material proceedings and governmental investigations
ingredients (as would be expected to precede the introduction of
currently involving the Group which, if proven, could give rise to
such a product), and is not able to predict when this may occur or
civil and/or criminal liabilities. Unfavourable resolution of these and
when any such ‘follow-on’ product may enter the US market.
similar future proceedings or investigations may have a material
Generic drug manufacturers have also exhibited a readiness to adverse effect on the Group’s financial condition and results of
market generic versions of many of the Group’s most important operations. The Group has made provisions in 2011 and prior years
products prior to the expiration of the Group’s patents. Efforts may related to such legal proceedings and investigations, which reduced
involve challenges to the validity or enforceability of a patent or its earnings.
assertions that their generic product does not infringe the Group’s
In the future, the Group may also make additional significant
patents. If the Group is not successful in defending an attack on its
provisions related to legal proceedings and investigations which
patents and maintaining exclusive rights to market one or more of
would reduce its earnings. In many cases, the Group believes that it
its major products, particularly in the USA and Europe, the Group’s
is the practice of the plaintiff bar to claim damages in amounts that
financial results would be adversely affected. The expiration dates
bear no reasonable relationship to the underlying harm allegedly
for patents for the Group’s major products and a description of
caused by the Group’s products or its actions. Accordingly, it may
litigation settlements which may affect the dates on which generic
be potentially misleading for the Group to quantify, based on the
versions of the Group’s products may be introduced are set out on
amount of damages claimed, its potential exposure to claims,
page 239. Legal proceedings involving patent challenges are set
proceedings and investigations of the type described in Note 44
out in Note 44 to the financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’.
to the financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’.
The Group may also experience an impact on sales of one of its
Recent insurance loss experience, including pharmaceutical product
products due to the expiry or loss of patent protection for a
liability exposures, has increased the cost, and reduced the capacity,
product marketed by a competitor in a similar product class or for
of insurers to provide coverage for pharmaceutical companies
treatment of a similar disease condition. The availability of generic
generally, including the Group.
products in the same or similar product class in which one of the
Group’s products competes could have a material adverse impact In order to contain insurance costs in recent years, the Group has
on sales of the Group’s products. continued to adjust its coverage profile, accepting a greater degree
of uninsured exposure in some areas, and a lesser degree in others,
in order to optimise the value of insurance markets. In addition,
where claims are made under insurance policies, insurers regularly
reserve the right to deny cover on various grounds.74 GSK Annual Report 2011
Financial review Risk factors continued
& risk
Product liability litigation In the USA, for example, while the Group has reached agreement
in principle to resolve certain federal governmental investigations
Pre-clinical and clinical trials are conducted during the development
into the pricing, marketing and reimbursement of its prescription
of potential pharmaceutical, vaccine and consumer healthcare
drug products, as detailed in Note 44 to the financial statements,
products to determine the safety and efficacy of the products for
“Legal proceedings”, related state investigations that have been
use by humans following approval by regulatory authorities.
initiated on the basis of the same factual claims could result in
Notwithstanding the efforts the Group makes to determine the
restitution or civil litigation on behalf of state governments, and
safety of its products through regulated clinical trials, unanticipated
could also result in related proceedings initiated against the Group
side effects may become evident only when drugs and vaccines are
by or on behalf of consumers and private payers. Such proceedings
widely introduced into the marketplace.
may result in trebling of damages awarded or fines in respect of
In other instances, third parties may perform analyses of published each violation of law. The conduct of the Group could result in
clinical trial results which, although not necessarily accurate or additional investigations in the future by the US federal and state
meaningful, may raise questions regarding the safety of governments and similar civil litigation. Any of these consequences
pharmaceutical, vaccine or consumer healthcare products which could materially and adversely affect the Group’s financial results.
may be publicised by the media and may result in product liability
Governmental, payer and regulatory controls
claims. The Group is currently a defendant in a substantial number
of product liability lawsuits, including class actions, that involve Pricing
significant claims for damages related to the Group’s
Pharmaceutical and vaccine products are subject to price controls
pharmaceutical and consumer healthcare products. Litigation,
or pressures and other restrictions in many markets, including but
particularly in the USA, is inherently unpredictable. Class actions
not limited to France, Germany, Italy, Japan and Spain. Some
that sweep together all persons who were prescribed the Group’s
governments intervene directly in setting prices. In addition, in
products can inflate the potential liability by the force of numbers.
some markets, major purchasers of pharmaceutical or vaccine
Claims for pain and suffering and punitive damages are frequently
products (whether governmental agencies or private health care
asserted in product liability actions and, if allowed, can represent
providers) have the economic power to exert substantial pressure
potentially open ended exposure and thus could materially and
on prices or the terms of access to formularies. Difficult economic
adversely affect the Group’s financial results.
conditions, particularly in the major markets in Europe, could
Anti-trust litigation increase the pricing pressures on the Group’s pharmaceutical and
vaccine products. The Group cannot accurately predict whether
In the USA, it has become increasingly common for patent
existing controls, pressures or restrictions will increase or whether
infringement actions to prompt claims that anti-trust laws have
new controls, pressures or restrictions will be introduced. Such
been violated during the prosecution of the patent or during
measures may materially and adversely affect the Group’s ability
litigation involving the defence of that patent. Such claims by direct
to introduce new products profitably and its financial results.
and indirect purchasers and other payers are typically filed as class
actions. The relief sought may include treble damages and For example, in the USA, where the Group has its highest margins
restitution claims. Similarly, anti-trust claims may be brought by and the most sales for any country, there are no direct government
government entities or private parties following settlement of price controls over private sector purchases, but federal law requires
patent litigation, alleging that such settlements are anti-competitive pharmaceutical manufacturers to pay prescribed rebates on certain
and in violation of anti-trust laws. The Group may also be subject drugs to be eligible for reimbursement under several state and
to other anti-trust litigation involving competition claims unrelated federal healthcare programmes, primarily Medicare and Medicaid.
to patent infringement and prosecution. A successful anti-trust Pricing pressures are likely to increase as the US government’s share
claim by a private party or government entity against the Group of national health spending continues to increase. Additionally, due
could materially and adversely affect the Group’s financial results. to passage of comprehensive health care reform in 2010, the US
government’s role in providing or subsidising health insurance is
Sales and marketing regulation
expected to significantly expand in 2014, which indicates the
The Group operates globally in complex legal and regulatory growing role and leverage the government will bring to bear on
environments that often vary among jurisdictions. The failure to the Group’s rebate liability with respect to US federal programs.
comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations in these
In recent years, a number of states have also proposed or
jurisdictions may result in civil and criminal legal proceedings
implemented various schemes to control the pharmacy budget for
brought against the Group by governmental entities at the federal
drugs used by their low-income and senior citizens’ programmes,
and state levels and by private plaintiffs. As those rules and
including increasing the rebate liability of pharmaceutical
regulations change or as governmental interpretation of those
companies, importation from other countries and bulk purchases
rules and regulations evolve, conduct of the Group may be called
of drugs. Given the new state mandates contained in the US health
into question.
care reform law, which will increase the number of Medicaid
eligible participants, and the economic pressures on state
government budgets, pricing pressures on the Group’s
pharmaceutical and vaccine products are likely to increase.
Any of these trends may materially and adversely affect the
Group’s financial results.75 GSK Annual Report 2011
Regulatory controls Materials and services provided by third-party suppliers are
necessary for the commercial production of our products,
The Group must comply with a broad range of regulatory controls
including speciality chemicals, commodities and components
on the manufacturing, testing, approval, distribution and marketing
necessary for the manufacture and packaging of many of the
of many of its pharmaceutical, vaccine and consumer healthcare
Group’s Pharmaceutical, Vaccine and Consumer Healthcare
products that affect not only the cost of product development but
products. Some of the third-party services procured, for example,
also the time required to reach the market and the uncertainty of
services provided by clinical research organisations to support
successfully doing so. Historically, there have been more stringent
development of key products, are very important to the operation
regulatory requirements in developed markets. However, in recent
of the Group’s businesses. Although the Group undertakes
years, emerging markets have been increasing their regulatory
business continuity planning, single sourcing for certain
expectations based on their own national interpretations of US
components, bulk active materials, finished products, and services
and EU standards. As detailed on page 15, health authorities in
creates a risk of failure of supply in the event of regulatory
developed markets have increased their focus on safety when
non-compliance or physical disruption at the manufacturing sites.
assessing the risk/benefit balance of drugs in the context of not
The failure of a small number of single-source, third-party suppliers
only initial product approval but also in the context of approval
or service providers to fulfil their contractual obligations in a timely
of additional indications and review of information regarding
manner or as a result of regulatory non-compliance or physical
marketed products. Stricter regulatory controls also heighten the
disruption at the manufacturing sites may result in delays or service
risk of changes in product profile or withdrawal by regulators on
interruptions, which may materially and adversely affect the
the basis of post-approval concerns over product safety, which
Group’s financial results.
could reduce revenues and result in product recalls and product
liability lawsuits. There is also greater regulatory scrutiny, especially Taxation and Treasury
in the USA, on advertising and promotion and in particular on
The Group’s effective tax rate is driven by rates of tax in
direct-to-consumer advertising.
jurisdictions that are both higher and lower than that applied in the
In addition, in some cases, the Group may voluntarily cease UK. In addition, many jurisdictions such as the UK, Belgium and the
marketing a product or face declining sales based on concerns USA currently offer regimes that encourage innovation and new
about efficacy or safety (for example, the decline in sales of the scientific endeavours by providing tax incentives, for example R&D
Group’s product Avandia beginning in 2007 following publicity tax credits. Furthermore, given the scale and international nature of
around questions regarding risks associated with the product), the Group’s business, intra-group transfer pricing is an inherent tax
whether or not scientifically justified, even in the absence of risk as it is for other international businesses. Changes in tax laws or
regulatory action. The development of the post-approval adverse in their application with respect to matters such as transfer pricing,
event profile for a product or the product class may materially and foreign dividends, controlled companies, R&D tax credits or a
adversely affect the Group’s financial results. restriction in tax relief allowed on the interest on intra-group debt,
could increase the Group’s effective tax rate and materially and
Risk of interruption of product supply
adversely affect its financial results.
The manufacture of pharmaceutical and vaccine products and their
The tax charge included in the financial statements is the Group’s
constituent materials requires compliance with good manufacturing
best estimate of its tax liability but, until such time as audits by tax
practice regulations. The Group’s manufacturing sites are subject to
authorities are concluded, there is a degree of uncertainty
review and approval by the FDA and other regulatory agencies.
regarding the final tax liability for the period. The Group’s policy is
Compliance failure by the Group’s manufacturing facilities or by
to submit tax returns within the statutory time limits and engage
suppliers of key services and materials could lead to product recalls
tax authorities to ensure that the Group’s tax affairs are as current
and seizures, interruption of production, delays in the approval of
as possible, and that any differences in the interpretation of tax
new products, and revoking of license to operate pending
legislation and regulation are resolved as quickly as possible. In
resolution of manufacturing issues. For example, non-compliance
exceptional cases where matters cannot be settled by agreement
with current Good Manufacturing Practice (cGMP) requirements
with tax authorities, GSK may have to resolve disputes through
for US supply could ultimately result, in the most severe
formal appeals or other proceedings. For example, in January 2012,
circumstances, in fines and disgorgement of profits. Any
the Supreme Court of Canada heard an appeal in respect of the
interruption of supply or the incurring of fines or disgorgement
Groups transfer pricing, as discussed in Note 14 to the financial
impacting significant products or markets could materially and
statements, ‘Taxation’.
adversely affect the Group’s financial results.
The Group deals in high value transactions on a frequent basis
which may result in an increased risk of financial loss due to the
mismanagement of cash or entering into high risk positions on
hedge transactions, any of which could materially and adversely
affect the Group’s financial results.76 GSK Annual Report 2011
Financial review Risk factors continued
& risk
There are a number of further risks, which could affect the financial At 31 December 2011, the Group had trade receivables due from
condition or results of the Group, as follows: these three wholesalers totalling £934 million (31 December 2010
– £890 million). The Group is exposed to a concentration of credit
Implementing the Group’s strategic priorities
risk in respect of these wholesalers such that, if one or more are
The Group has established three strategic priorities: to grow a affected by financial difficulty, it could materially and adversely
diversified business, deliver more products of value, and simplify its affect the Group’s financial results.
operating model. The Group may not be able to implement its
Global political and economic conditions
strategic priorities fully. Even if the Group is able to implement
them, the strategic priorities may not deliver the expected benefits. As described on page 13, many of the world’s largest economies,
including the major markets in which the Group operates, and
For example, the strategic priority to grow a diversified business
financial institutions have in the recent past faced extreme financial
involves expanding the Group’s business into Emerging Markets.
difficulty, including a decline in asset prices, liquidity problems and
The Group’s pharmaceutical sales in Emerging Markets grew 6%
limited availability of credit. The economic uncertainty continued in
in 2011 to nearly £3.7 billion, and represented 17% of the Group’s
2011, with multiple downgrades of sovereign credit ratings,
2011 pharmaceutical turnover. There is no guarantee that the
particularly in the Eurozone. High levels of sovereign debt are
Group’s sales in Emerging Markets will continue to grow or that
negatively impacting growth in the global economy. It is uncertain
these markets will continue to experience relatively high growth
how long these effects will last, or whether economic and financial
rates. Some emerging markets may be especially vulnerable to the
trends will worsen or improve. The ongoing debt crisis in certain
ongoing global financial crisis, or may have very limited resources
countries in Europe has increased pressures on the payers in those
to spend on healthcare. Competition in these markets for staff with
countries to force healthcare companies such as the Group to
the skills and training suitable for employment at an enterprise such
decrease the price of its products. The debt crisis has also given rise
as the Group’s may be intense. In some emerging markets, the
to concerns that some countries may not be able to pay for our
Group may be required to rely on third party agents, which may
products. Current economic conditions may also adversely affect
put the Group at risk of liability, and some emerging markets lack
the ability of our distributors, customers, suppliers and service
sufficient protection against crimes such as counterfeiting. A failure
providers to pay for our products, or otherwise to buy necessary
to continue to expand its business in emerging growth markets
inventory or raw materials, and to perform their obligations under
could materially and adversely affect the Group’s financial results.
agreements with us, which could disrupt our operations, and
In addition, the Group is undertaking a restructuring programme negatively impact our business and cash flow. Some of our
that has an estimated cost of approximately £4.85 billion and is distributors, customers, suppliers and service providers may be
expected to deliver annual pre-tax savings of approximately unable to pay their bills in a timely manner, or may even become
£2.8 billion by the time it is substantially complete in 2014. insolvent, which could negatively impact our business and results
The Group may not be able to execute fully this transformation of operations. These risks may be elevated with respect to our
of its business. Furthermore, changes in the Group’s structure, interactions with third parties with substantial operations in
operations, revenues, costs or efficiency resulting from these countries where current economic conditions are the most severe,
restructuring activities or other strategic initiatives could result in particularly where such third parties are themselves exposed to
higher than expected costs or other difficulties. Failure to realise the risk from business interactions directly with fiscally-challenged
expected cost savings by the end of the restructuring programme government payers.
or to achieve and maintain a competitive cost base could materially
Such continued economic weakness and uncertainty could
and adversely affect the Group’s financial results.
materially and adversely affect the Group’s revenues, results of
Anti-bribery and corruption operations and financial condition. The Group’s businesses,
including Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare,
The Group’s extensive and increasing international operations may
may be particularly sensitive to declines in consumer or government
give rise to possible claims of bribery and corruption. Failure to
spending. In addition, further or renewed declines in asset prices
comply with applicable legislation such as the US Foreign Corrupt
may result in a lower return on the Group’s financial investments
Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act, or similar legislation in other
and may cause the value of the Group’s investments in its pension
countries, could expose the Group and senior officers to civil and
plans to decrease, requiring the Group to increase its funding of
criminal sanction, including fines, prosecution, potential debarment
those pension plans.
from public procurement and reputational damage, all of which
could materially and adversely affect the Group’s financial results. The Group conducts a substantial portion of its operations outside
The compliance mechanisms and monitoring programmes that the the UK. The Group’s management of foreign exchange rates is
Group has in place may not adequately prevent or detect possible discussed in Business review, ‘Foreign exchange management’
violations under applicable anti-bribery and corruption legislation. (see page 66). Fluctuations in exchange rates between Sterling
and other currencies, especially the US dollar, the Euro and the
Risk from concentration of sales to wholesalers
Japanese Yen, could materially and adversely affect the Group’s
In the USA, similar to other pharmaceutical and vaccine companies, financial results.
the Group sells its products through a small number of wholesalers
The Group has no control over changes in inflation and interest
in addition to hospitals, pharmacies, physicians and other groups.
rates, foreign currency exchange rates and controls or other
Sales to the three largest wholesalers amounted to approximately
economic factors affecting its businesses or the possibility of
77% of the Group’s US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines turnover
political unrest, legal and regulatory changes or nationalisation
in 2011.
in jurisdictions in which the Group operates.77 GSK Annual Report 2011
The Group operates in a number of markets that are experiencing Failure to implement appropriate safeguards to adequately protect
political and social unrest. These events may lead to business against any unauthorised or unintentional access, acquisition, use,
disruption and liquidity problems that could adversely impact the modification, loss or disclosure of this critical or sensitive data may
Group’s results. adversely impact the Group’s ability to maintain patent rights and
competitive advantages or may result in regulatory non-compliance
Environmental liabilities
resulting in fines and penalties or inability to sell product in a
The environmental laws of various jurisdictions impose actual and particular market.
potential obligations on the Group to remediate contaminated
Alliances and acquisitions
sites. The Group has also been identified as a potentially
responsible party under the US Comprehensive Environmental As part of the Group’s strategy to diversify into new product areas
Response Compensation and Liability Act at a number of sites for and markets, the Group has grown, and expects to continue to
remediation costs relating to the Group’s use or ownership of such grow, in part through acquisitions and business alliances. There is
sites. Failure to manage properly the environmental risks could intense competition for alliance and acquisition candidates in the
result in additional remedial costs that may materially and adversely pharmaceutical industry, and, as such, the Group may be unable to
affect the Group’s financial results. See Note 44 to the financial make these deals on acceptable terms or at all. In acquiring or
statements, ‘Legal proceedings’, for a discussion of environmental forming alliances with companies, the Group may assume
related proceedings in which the Group is involved. The Group significant debt, become subject to unknown or contingent
routinely accrues amounts related to its liabilities for such matters. liabilities or fail to realise the benefits expected from these
transactions. For example, most pharmaceutical companies,
Accounting standards
including those that the Group may consider acquiring, are involved
New or revised accounting standards, rules and interpretations in patent disputes, product liability litigation, government
issued from time to time by the International Accounting Standards investigations and other legal proceedings whose outcome is
Board could result in changes to the recognition of income and subject to considerable uncertainty. The assumption of debt or
expense that may materially and adversely affect the Group’s unknown or contingent liabilities or the failure to realise the
financial results. expected benefits may materially and adversely affect the Group’s
financial results.
Under International Financial Reporting Standards, changes in the
market valuation of certain financial instruments are required to be The process of integrating companies the Group may acquire may
reflected in the Group’s reported results before those gains or result in disruption to the ongoing business as the effort of
losses are actually realised. This could have a significant impact on integrating organisations in different locations and with, among
the income statement in any given period. Accounting for deferred other things, differing systems and corporate cultures may divert
taxation on inter-company inventory may give rise to volatility attention and resources, result in the loss of key employees or have
depending upon the Group entity that owns the inventory. other adverse consequences, any of which may materially and
adversely affect the Group’s financial results.
Regulators regularly review the financial statements of listed
companies for compliance with accounting and regulatory Attraction and retention
requirements. The Group believes that it complies with the
The Group relies heavily on recruiting and retaining talented
appropriate regulatory requirements concerning its financial
employees with a range of skills and capabilities to meet its
statements and disclosures. However, other companies have
objectives. The Group faces intense competition for qualified
experienced investigations into potential non-compliance with
individuals, as the supply of people with specific skills and
accounting and disclosure requirements that have resulted in
significant leadership potential or in specific geographic regions
restatements of previously reported results and sometimes
may be limited, particularly given the Group’s plans to expand its
significant penalties. Any such investigation and required
operations in Emerging Markets and Vaccines.
restatement could materially and adversely affect the Group’s
financial results. The inability to attract staff with specific technical and leadership
skills, retain key employees or ensure effective succession planning
Protection of electronic information and assets
for critical positions may materially and adversely affect the Group’s
The Group relies on critical and sensitive data, such as corporate ability to implement key strategic objectives and ultimately impact
strategic plans, personally identifiable information, trade secrets financial results.
and intellectual property, to drive planning and operations.
Security of this type of data is exposed to escalating external
threats that are increasing in sophistication and changing from a
goal of disruption to being financially or politically motivated.
The Group is also subject to various standards for the protection
of personally identifiable information and this year submitted an
application for Binding Corporate Rules status, which is under
review by UK Information Commissioner’s Office.78 GSK Annual Report 2011
Governance &
remuneration
Our Board
Our Board is responsible for the long-term success of the company, corporate
governance, strategy, risk management and financial performance
1 Sir Christopher Gent Committee memberships
2 Sir Andrew Witty a Audit & Risk
3 Professor Sir Roy Anderson b Remuneration
4 Dr Stephanie Burns c Nominations
5 Stacey Cartwright d Corporate Responsibility
6 Larry Culp
7 Sir Crispin Davis * N ot standing for re-election
at AGM 2012
8 Simon Dingemans
9 Judy Lewent † N ot standing for re-election
at AGM 2013
10 Sir Deryck Maughan
11 James Murdoch
12 Dr Daniel Podolsky
13 Dr Moncef Slaoui
14 Tom de Swaan
15 Sir Robert Wilson
trakcorC
niaI
dna
skoorB
egroeG
1 2
3 4
5 6
7 8 9 10
11 12
13 14
1579 GSK Annual Report 2011
1. Sir Christopher Gent 63 5. Stacey Cartwright 48 10. Sir Deryck Maughan 64
Chairman, b, c, d Non-Executive Director, a Non-Executive Director, a, c
Appointed to the Board on 1 June 2004 and as Appointed on 1 April 2011. Stacey joined Burberry Appointed on 1 June 2004. Sir Deryck is a Partner of
Chairman on 1 January 2005. Sir Christopher Group plc as Chief Financial Officer in 2003 and was Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. He is a Non-Executive
is Chairman of the Nominations and Corporate appointed Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Director of Thomson Reuters and BlackRock Inc., as
Responsibility Committees. He is a Non-Executive Officer in June 2008. Previously she held the role of well as serving on the board of directors of the Lincoln
Director of Ferrari SpA, a member of KPMG’s Chief Financial Officer at Egg plc between 1999 and Center and is a Trustee of the New York University
Chairman’s Advisory Group and a Senior Adviser at 2003, and from 1988 to 1999 she worked in various Langone Medical Center. He was formerly Chairman
Bain & Co. Sir Christopher was formerly Chief Executive finance-related positions at Granada Group plc. and Chief Executive Officer of Citigroup International
Officer of Vodafone Group plc, until his retirement and of Salomon Brothers Inc.
in July 2003. He was also formerly a Non-Executive 6. Larry Culp 48
Director of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. Non-Executive Director, b, c † 11. James Murdoch 39
Non-Executive Director, b, d *
2. Sir Andrew Witty 47 Appointed on 1 July 2003. Larry is President and
Chief Executive Officer of Danaher Corporation. Prior Appointed on 20 May 2009. James is Deputy Chief
Chief Executive Officer
to joining Danaher, he held positions in Accenture, Operating Officer and Chairman and Chief Executive
Appointed on 8 October 2007 as Chief Executive previously Andersen Consulting. Officer, International of News Corporation. He is also
Officer Designate and on 21 May 2008 as Chief Non-Executive Chairman of BSkyB plc and Non-
Executive Officer (CEO). Sir Andrew joined the Group 7. Sir Crispin Davis 62 Executive Director of Sotheby’s. He previously served as
in 1985 and has held senior positions in Asia Pacific, Non-Executive Director, b, c † Chief Executive Officer of BSkyB plc from 2003 to 2007,
South Africa and the USA. Immediately prior to being and Star TV from 2000 to 2003.
appointed CEO, he was President, GSK Pharmaceuticals Appointed on 1 July 2003. Sir Crispin is Chairman of
Europe, a position he held from January 2003. Sir the Remuneration Committee. He is Chairman and 12. Dr Daniel Podolsky 58
Andrew has served in numerous advisory roles to Director of StarBev Netherlands BV, a member of Non-Executive Director and Scientific Expert, a, d
governments around the world including South Africa, Citigroup’s Global Advisory Board and serves on the
Singapore and Guangzhou China. He is currently a Council of Oxford University. Sir Crispin was previously Appointed on 1 July 2006. Daniel is President of the
member of the Prime Minister’s Business Advisory Chief Executive Officer of Reed Elsevier plc and prior University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center
Group and is the Lead Non-Executive Board Member to that appointment, Chief Executive of Aegis Group and holds the Phillip O’Bryan Montgomery, Jr.,
for the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills. plc, which he joined from Guinness plc, where he was M.D. Distinguished Presidential Chair in Academic
He was a board member of the INSEAD Business a member of the main board and Group Managing Administration, and the Doris and Bryan Wildenthal
School until January 2012. Sir Andrew is President of Director of United Distillers. In his earlier career, he Distinguished Chair in Medical Science. He is a
the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries worked for Procter & Gamble, where he was President member of the Institute of Medicine of the US National
and Associations. He was awarded a knighthood for of the North American Food Division. Academy of Sciences, a member of the board of the
services to the economy and to the UK pharmaceutical Southwestern Medical Foundation and is a director of
industry in the 2012 New Year Honours. 8. Simon Dingemans 48 Antibe Therapeutics, Inc.
Chief Financial Officer
3. Professor Sir Roy Anderson 64 13. Dr Moncef Slaoui 52
Appointed on 4 January 2011 as Chief Financial Officer
Non-Executive Director and Scientific Expert, a Designate and on 1 April 2011 as Chief Financial Officer Chairman, Research & Development
Appointed on 1 October 2007. Sir Roy is Professor (CFO). Simon joined GSK from Goldman Sachs where Appointed on 17 May 2006. Moncef joined GSK
of Infectious Disease Epidemiology in the Faculty of he was a Managing Director and Partner. He has over Biologicals in 1988 where he engineered the
Medicine, Imperial College, London. He is a member 25 years of experience in investment banking. While development of a robust vaccines pipeline and
of the International Advisory Board of Hakluyt & Co at Goldman Sachs, Simon worked with GSK for over a subsequently led Worldwide Business Development
Ltd, a Trustee of the Natural History Museum, London, decade and was closely involved in a number of GSK’s for pharmaceuticals before his appointment to lead
a fellow (and member of the Science Policy Advisory strategic projects, including the establishment of R&D. Moncef was given overall responsibility for GSK’s
Group) of the Royal Society and a fellow of the ViiV Healthcare. Oncology Business in 2010, and for GSK Vaccines
Academy of Medical Sciences and the Royal Statistical in 2011. He has a PhD in Molecular Biology and
Society. Sir Roy is a member of the International 9. Judy Lewent 63 Immunology from Université Libre de Bruxelles.
Advisory Board of the HIV Monitoring Foundation, an Non-Executive Director, a
14. Tom de Swaan 65
Honorary Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries and a
Appointed on 1 April 2011. Judy served as Executive
Foreign Associate Member of the Institute of Medicine Non-Executive Director, a, b
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Merck &
at the US National Academy of Sciences and the French
Co., Inc. until September 2007. She is also a director of Appointed on 1 January 2006. Tom is Chairman of
Academy of Sciences. His former positions include
Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. and Motorola Solutions, the Audit & Risk Committee. He is Chairman of the
Rector of Imperial College and Chief Scientific Adviser
Inc. She served on the boards of Motorola Inc. from Supervisory Board of VanLanschot Bankiers, a member
at the Ministry of Defence in the UK.
1995 until May 2010 and Dell Inc. from 2001 to 2011. of the board of directors of Zurich Financial Services
4. Dr Stephanie Burns 57 She previously served on the board of Quaker Oats and a Non-Executive Member of KPMG Europe LLP’s
Company. Since 2009, Judy has served on the boards Public Interest Committee. Tom is also Vice Chairman
Non-Executive Director, d of Purdue Pharma Inc., Napp Pharmaceutical Holdings of the Supervisory Board and Chairman of the Audit
Appointed on 12 February 2007. Stephanie was Limited and certain Mundipharma International Limited Committee of Royal Ahold and a member of the
formerly Chairman, President and Chief Executive companies as a Non-Executive Director. She is also a Supervisory Board of Royal DSM. He was previously a
Officer of Dow Corning Corporation until her Trustee and the Chairperson of the Audit Committee member of the Managing Board and Chief Financial
retirement on 31 December 2011. Stephanie was of the Rockefeller Family Trust, a life member of the Officer of ABN AMRO.
appointed a Non-Executive Director of Corning Inc. on Massachusetts Institute of Technology Corporation
31 January 2012. She sits on the US President’s Export and a member of the American Academy of Arts 15. Sir Robert Wilson 68
Council and is a former Chairman of the American & Sciences. Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent
Chemistry Council. She is also an officer of the Society Director, a, c †
of Chemical Industry, America Section. She has also
Appointed on 1 November 2003. Sir Robert is currently
served on the boards of the Michigan Molecular
Non-Executive Chairman of BG Group plc until he
Institute and the Society for Women’s Health Research.
steps down in May 2012. He was previously Executive
Chairman of Rio Tinto plc until his retirement in
October 2003 and Chairman of The Economist Group
between 2003 and 2009.80 GSK Annual Report 2011
Governance &
remuneration
Our Corporate
Executive Team
Our Corporate Executive Team supports our Chief Executive Officer in the
management of the business and our activities
1 Sir Andrew Witty 10. David Pulman
2 Simon Bicknell 11 David Redfern
3 John Clarke 12 Moncef Slaoui
4 Deirdre Connelly 13 Jean Stéphenne
5 Simon Dingemans 14 Claire Thomas
6 Marc Dunoyer 15 Phil Thomson
7 Eddie Gray 16 Dan Troy
8 Abbas Hussain 17 Patrick Vallance
9 Bill Louv 18 Emma Walmsley
sppihW
moT
dna
nesliN
nairB
nalA
,trakcorC
niaI
,skoorB
egroeG
1 2
3 4
5 6
7 8 9 10
11 12 13 14
15 16
17 1881 GSK Annual Report 2011
1. Sir Andrew Witty 9. Bill Louv 15. Phil Thomson
Chief Executive Officer Senior Vice President, Core Business Services Senior Vice President, Global Communications
& Chief Information Officer
See page 79. Phil was appointed Senior Vice President, Global
Bill was appointed Chief Information Officer in January Communications in August 2010. He has responsibility
2. Simon Bicknell 2007. In addition to this role, he was appointed to for Media Relations, Investor Relations, Corporate
Senior Vice President, Governance, Ethics create and lead Core Business Services, a global Responsibility, Global Community Partnerships, and
and Assurance multi-function shared service, in April 2010. Prior to Internal, Product, and Business Communications.
his current role, Bill was Senior Vice President, R&D Phil joined Glaxo Wellcome as a commercial trainee
Simon was appointed to the role in January 2011. Information Technology. Bill joined GSK in 1994 as in 1996.
He is responsible for risk management, compliance, Vice President, Medical Data Sciences.
internal auditing, data privacy, security and the office 16. Dan Troy
of product quality. He was formerly SVP, Company 10. David Pulman Senior Vice President and General Counsel
Secretary & Corporate Compliance Officer. Simon
President, Global Manufacturing and Supply
joined the Corporate Secretariat in 1984. He was Dan joined GSK as Senior Vice President and General
appointed Company Secretary of GlaxoSmithKline plc David is responsible for the Global Manufacturing Counsel in September 2008. Before that he was a
in May 2000 and combined this position with his role and Supply organisation and Global Procurement. Partner at the Washington law firm Sidley Austin LLP
as Corporate Compliance Officer from April 2006 until He joined Glaxo in 1978. He has broad experience and Chief Counsel of the FDA. From 2006–2007 he
his current appointment. of manufacturing operations having previously led chaired the American Bar Association’s Section of
the Primary Supply, European manufacturing, North Administrative Law, and was previously an adjunct
3. John Clarke American manufacturing, Global Logistics and scholar at the American Enterprise Institute in
President, Consumer Healthcare Worldwide Manufacturing Strategy organisations. Washington, DC.
John was appointed President, Consumer Healthcare 11. David Redfern 17. Patrick Vallance
in January 2006. In October 2011, in-line with agreed
Chief Strategy Officer President, Pharmaceuticals R&D
succession planning, he handed over responsibility to
Emma Walmsley. John will continue as a member of the David is responsible for proactive exploration of Appointed President, Pharmaceuticals R&D, in January
Corporate Executive Team until March 2012. He joined new business opportunities, strategic planning and 2012, Patrick joined GSK in May 2006 as Head of Drug
Beecham in 1976 and was the President of the Future the global leadership of the dermatology business. Discovery. He focused the organisation on science that
Group before his current appointment in January 2006. He is also Chairman of the Board of ViiV Healthcare has the best chance of leading to new medicines, and
Ltd. He began his career with GSK in 1994 in Corporate created small, multidisciplinary teams called Discovery
4. Deirdre Connelly Development before being appointed Finance Director Performance Units. In 2010 he united discovery and
President, North America Pharmaceuticals of Europe Pharmaceuticals in 1999. He was appointed development to create Therapy Area Units, a group he
Area Director for Central Europe in 2003 and Northern led until his recent appointment. Patrick was a clinician
Deirdre joined GSK in February 2009 after working at Europe in 2005. and academic and led the Division of Medicine at
Eli Lilly and Company for 24 years. She held a variety University College London before joining GSK.
of positions including sales professional, General 12. Moncef Slaoui
Manager of Puerto Rico, Senior Vice President of Chairman, Research & Development 18. Emma Walmsley
Human Resources and, most recently, President of
President, Consumer Healthcare Worldwide
US Operations. See page 79.
Emma assumed the role of President, Consumer
5. Simon Dingemans 13. Jean Stéphenne Healthcare Worldwide in October 2011 after joining
Chief Financial Officer Chairman and President, Biologicals GSK in May 2010 as President of Consumer Healthcare
Europe. She joined GSK from L’Oréal where she worked
See page 79. Jean has led GSK’s global vaccines business since 1989. for 17 years, holding a variety of marketing and general
Previously, he was Vice President of Human Vaccines management roles in Paris, London and New York.
6. Marc Dunoyer Research and Development and Production. He joined From 2007 Emma was based in Shanghai as General
Global Head, GSK Rare Diseases and Chairman the Group in 1974 as Head of Bacterial and Viral Manager, Consumer Products, L’Oréal China. Before
of GSK Japan Vaccines production. Jean was named Baron by King joining L’Oréal, Emma worked in strategic consultancy
Albert II of the Belgians in 2000 in recognition of his in both the USA and UK.
Marc was appointed Chairman of GSK Japan in January leading contribution to R&D and industry in Belgium.
2010 and in February 2010 to lead GSK’s rare diseases
business from R&D to commercialisation. He joined 14. Claire Thomas
the Group in 1999 and was previously President,
Senior Vice President, Human Resources
Pharmaceuticals Japan from January 2000 until May
2008. He was President, Pharmaceuticals Asia Pacific/ Claire leads the Global Human Resources (HR)
Japan from May 2008 until July 2010. function, and is responsible for GSK’s Environmental
Sustainability Strategy. Previously, she oversaw HR in
7. Eddie Gray Pharmaceuticals International and in Pharmaceuticals
President, Pharmaceuticals Europe Europe. Claire joined the Group in 1996 and was
appointed Director of Human Resources for UK
Eddie became responsible for the Group’s operations Pharmaceuticals in 1997. Claire was honoured as
in Europe in January 2008. He joined Beecham in 1988 an Outstanding European Woman of Achievement
and, prior to his current appointment, was Senior Vice in 2007.
President and General Manager, Pharmaceuticals UK.
8. Abbas Hussain
President, Emerging Markets & Asia Pacific
Abbas joined GSK in June 2008 from Eli Lilly and
Company, where he spent more than 20 years
overseeing markets throughout Europe, Africa/Middle
East and Australasia.82 GSK Annual Report 2011
Governance &
remuneration Corporate
governance
Dear Shareholder
Good corporate governance provides a structure for delivering the company’s strategy and
is fundamental to a sound decision-making process. It supports the executive management
in achieving maximum performance for the business. As Chairman, I recognise that my
leadership of the Board is critical to encouraging open and transparent debate, discussion,
constructive challenge and support.
UK Corporate Governance Code
We welcomed the introduction of the Financial Reporting Council’s UK Corporate
Governance Code (the Code) and our report this year is structured so that we report our
corporate governance arrangements and practice against its five sections. One of the new
provisions of the Code is the requirement for all directors to retire each year at the Annual
General Meeting (AGM) and, if they wish to continue in office, to offer themselves for
election or re-election by the shareholders. We complied with this provision ahead of time
at our 2011 AGM and we intend to follow this practice going forward. We also conducted
our second external Board evaluation this year and, in line with the Code, intend to
continue to have an external evaluation every three years.
Board composition
This year the Board has reviewed its composition and made a number of changes to
ensure that its membership is continuously refreshed and that it provides the leadership
expected to take our global business forward. Simon Dingemans was appointed to the
Board in January and succeeded Julian Heslop as CFO in April. James Murdoch has decided
not to stand for re-election at this year’s AGM. The process of refreshing the Board
continues. Three of our Non-Executive Directors, Sir Crispin Davis, Sir Robert Wilson and
Larry Culp, will have completed nine years’ service by 2013 and they will not offer
themselves for re-election at the AGM next year. In replacing those Directors, priority is
being given to candidates who have knowledge of Emerging Markets or are chief executive
officers of global companies.
We support the initiatives to increase diversity on the boards of public companies, although
we view diversity in a much wider context than gender diversity. This is reflected in the
wide range of backgrounds and skills of our Board members. During the year, we were
pleased to welcome Judy Lewent and Stacey Cartwright, who bring particular experience
of global business and finance, as Non-Executive Directors. They are completing tailored
induction programmes, but are already active contributors to Board debate.
Management of risk
In the current uncertain economic climate, we recognise that it is important to maintain our
increased focus on risk. We have spent a significant amount of time and resources on the
assessment and monitoring of risk throughout the Group, led by our Audit & Risk
Committee, which oversees risk management and internal control activities. Our
Anti-Bribery and Corruption Programme has been enhanced following the introduction of
the UK Bribery Act 2010.83 GSK Annual Report 2011
Communications with shareholders
We value open, constructive and effective communication with our shareholders.
Our CEO, Sir Andrew Witty, our CFO, Simon Dingemans, and myself have continued our
regular dialogue with major shareholders, holding over 240 meetings with shareholders
this year. I also attended meetings with the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee,
Sir Crispin Davis, where we discussed remuneration policy and governance matters. I am
always available to meet shareholders and would anticipate we will continue this
programme of meetings each year.
Corporate governance debate
The debate over good corporate governance continues at a national, EU and international
level. We have sought to contribute to that debate by responding to the numerous
consultation documents issued on this subject. We feel strongly that companies – and not
just their advisers and representative bodies – should contribute to the structure of
governance processes going forward.
The Corporate Governance Report that follows sets out how we complied with the Code
during 2011.
Sir Christopher Gent
Chairman
9 March 201284 GSK Annual Report 2011
Governance & Corporate governance continued
remuneration
Governance and policy Senior Independent Director
Sir Robert Wilson has been our Senior Independent Director since
This section describes our management structure and governance
20 May 2009. His role is to act as a sounding board for the
procedures and, together with the Remuneration Report on pages
Chairman and a trusted intermediary for the other Directors. He
106 to 133, includes details of how we applied and complied with
is also available as an additional point of contact for shareholders.
the principles and provisions of the Code and with US legislation
His responsibilities include the evaluation of the performance of
and regulations. A copy of the Code is available on the Financial
the Chairman, and at the request of the Chairman, evaluating the
Reporting Council’s website, www.frc.org.uk. Throughout 2011,
Board and its Committees (in collaboration with the Committee
we complied with the provisions of the Code, except that Larry
Chairmen) in years when the evaluation is conducted internally.
Culp was unable to attend the AGM due to another pressing
The Senior Independent Director also works with the Chairman
business commitment.
on the process for the selection of a new Chairman as appropriate
Leadership and he chairs the Nominations Committee when agreeing the
recommendation to the Board for the Chairman’s successor.
The Board
Sir Robert maintains an understanding of the issues and concerns
The Board is responsible for the long-term success of the company of our major shareholders through meetings with shareholders and
and is accountable to shareholders for ensuring that the Group is reports from our investor relations team.
appropriately managed and achieves its strategic objectives. The
Sir Deryck Maughan will succeed Sir Robert as Senior Independent
Board is also responsible for our system of corporate governance,
Director with effect from the end of the AGM in 2013.
strategy, risk management and financial performance.
CEO
Sir Christopher Gent has led the Board as Chairman since January
2005. The Board comprises three Executive Directors and 12 Our CEO, Sir Andrew Witty, is responsible for the management of
Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman. The Executive the business, developing the Group’s strategic direction for
Directors are the CEO, the CFO, and the Chairman, Research consideration and approval by the Board and implementing the
& Development. agreed strategy. The CEO is assisted by other members of the CET,
Biographies of each of the Directors are given under ‘Our Board’ which meets at least 11 times a year and more often if required.
on pages 78 to 79. Short biographies of the members of the CET are given under
‘Our Corporate Executive Team’ on pages 80 to 81.
The Chairman
Company Secretary
The role of our Chairman is to lead and manage the business of the
Board to provide direction and focus, while ensuring that there is a The Company Secretary, Victoria Whyte, was appointed on
clear structure for the effective operation of the Board and its 1 January 2011. She is a solicitor and a Fellow of the Institute of
Committees. He sets the agenda for Board discussions to promote Chartered Secretaries and Administrators. Victoria was formerly
effective and constructive debate and to support a sound Deputy Secretary and Secretary to the Remuneration Committee.
decision-making process, ensuring that the Board receives She has acted as Secretary to the Board and all the Board’s
accurate, timely and clear information, in particular about the Committees since her appointment as Company Secretary.
company’s performance. Victoria supports the Chairman in the delivery of the corporate
The Chairman works closely with our CEO to ensure that the governance agenda, in particular in the planning of agendas for the
strategies and actions agreed by the Board are effectively annual cycle of Board and Committee meetings, and ensuring that
implemented and provides support and advice to the CEO, while information is made available to Board members in a timely
respecting his executive responsibility for managing the Group. The fashion. She advises the Directors on Board procedures and
division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the CEO has corporate governance matters, and arranges for the Non-Executive
been agreed by the Board and is set out in the governance section Directors to attend internal management meetings and visits to our
of our website. business operations.
The Chairman is responsible for the performance of the Group to For example, during the year, Larry Culp visited GSK’s site in
shareholders and leads discussions and the development of Shanghai, China. He also met the Chairman and General Manager
relations with them. of GSK India in Mumbai. Tom de Swaan attended various internal
compliance and assurance meetings as well as a conference of the
The Chairman was considered to be independent in character and Audit & Assurance team and Stacey Cartwright visited GSK’s
judgement on his appointment. manufacturing site in Ware, Hertfordshire.
Non-Executive Directors
The Non-Executive Directors provide a strong, independent
element on the Board and are well placed to constructively
challenge and support management, and help develop proposals
on strategy. Between them, they bring experience and independent
judgement, gained at the most senior levels of international
business operations and academia.85 GSK Annual Report 2011
Corporate governance framework
The Board monitors the performance of the Group as a whole by:
• e ngaging at Board meetings with, and challenging, the CEO and other members of the CET, as appropriate, on the financial an d
operating performance of the Group and external issues material to the Group’s prospects;
• e valuating progress towards the achievement of the Group’s financial and business objectives and annual plans. The Non-Executiv e
Directors scrutinise the performance of management in meeting these objectives and plans; and
• m onitoring, through reports received from various committees, the significant risks facing the Group.
The Board appraises and approves major financing, investment and licensing decisions in excess of defined thresholds.
The CEO is accountable for, and reports to the Board on, the performance of the business.
The Board discharges its responsibilities through an annual programme of meetings which include the approval of overall budgetary
planning and business strategy.
BOARD
(Chairman, 3 Executive Directors and 11
Independent Non-Executive Directors)
Audit & Risk Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee
7 Independent 4 Independent Non-Executive 4 Independent Non-Executive Chief Executive
Non-Executive Directors Directors and the Chairman Directors and the Chairman Officer
Corporate Responsibility Finance Committee Corporate Administration
Committee Executive and Non-Executive & Transactions Committee CET
3 Independent Non-Executive Directors Directors, other CET Members
Directors and the Chairman and the Company Secretary
Key
Board Committees Management Committee
The Board is ultimately responsible for the activities of the Group, its strategy and governance, risk management and financial
performance. The following matters are specifically reserved to the Board:
Strategy Approval of strategic plans and ensuring strategic objectives are achieved
Major organisation changes
Acquisitions, disposals, licensing transactions, mergers and joint ventures
Governance Composition of the Board and its Committees
Approval of appointments and succession plans for Executive Directors and other CET members
Senior management terms of employment
Corporate governance matters
The Group’s Code of Conduct
Risk management Determination of the Group’s risk appetite and risk management policies
Monitoring major risks and exposures
Review and approval of internal controls and risk management policies and processes
Financial performance Appropriation and distribution of profits
Capital investments
Regular reviews of business performance and objectives86 GSK Annual Report 2011
Governance & Corporate governance continued
remuneration
The Board met six times in 2011, with each member attending as Board agenda
follows:
During 2011, the agendas for Board meetings included the
Number of Number of following business:
meetings held whilst meetings
a Board member attended January Review of the 2010 Board evaluation report
Sir Christopher Gent 6 6/6 Review of the Investor Relations strategy
Sir Andrew Witty 6 6/6 Review of the 2010 financial results
Simon Dingemans* 6 6/6 Review of the Notice of AGM
Dr Moncef Slaoui 6 6/6 Consideration of the re-appointment of the auditors
Professor Sir Roy Anderson 6 6/6 Review of the R&D commercial interface*
Dr Stephanie Burns 6 6/6 Review of risk and internal control processes
Stacey Cartwright** 4 3/4
March Annual review of Biologicals operations
Larry Culp 6 6/6
Annual review of GMS
Sir Crispin Davis 6 6/6
Update on the Investor Relations strategy
Judy Lewent** 4 4/4
Sir Deryck Maughan 6 6/6 May Review of the financial strategy
James Murdoch 6 5/6 Annual review of European operations
Dr Daniel Podolsky 6 6/6 Annual review of operations in Japan
Tom de Swaan 6 6/6 AGM preparation
Sir Robert Wilson 6 6/6 Review of licensing and capital projects
Julian Heslop*** 2 2/2
July Review of changes to the financial strategy
* Simon Dingemans was appointed as a Director on 4 January 2011 Consideration of funding strategy
** S tacey Cartwright and Judy Lewent were appointed as Non-Executive
Consideration of tax strategy
Directors on 1 April 2011
*** Julian Heslop retired early as a director on 31 March 2011 Annual review of R&D
Annual review of the talent and leadership
In addition to the scheduled meetings, the Board also met on a development strategy*
quorate basis on three occasions.
October Annual review of projects and transactions approved
If a Director is unable to attend a Board or Committee meeting, he by the Board
or she still receives all the papers and materials for discussion at that Annual review of US Pharmaceuticals and
meeting. He or she will review them and will advise the Chairman Vaccines operations
or Committee Chairman of his or her views and comments on the Annual review of Emerging Markets & Asia Pacific
matters to be discussed so that they can be conveyed to other operations
members at the meeting.
December Review of the 2011 Board evaluation report
Approval of the 2012-2014 plan
Consideration of the external economic environment’s
impact on the pharmaceuticals sector*
Review of the strategy on diseases of the developing world*
* B oard agendas are shaped to create more time for strategic discussion and
debate, including deep dive reviews of key issues for the business to ensure
focused consideration of our strategic priorities. The items with an asterisk
above represent the deep dive reviews which took place in 2011.
In addition, at each meeting, the Board receives regular updates
from the CEO on the Group’s operations, reports from the CFO
on financial performance and updates on developments in, and the
company’s compliance with, corporate governance requirements
and other regulations from the Company Secretary.
CET members make regular presentations to the Board on their
areas of responsibility. The Directors meet with all the CET members
on an annual basis to discuss and develop proposals collectively in
relation to the Group’s strategy.87 GSK Annual Report 2011
Board committees
To meet best corporate governance practice, the Audit & Risk, Remuneration, Nominations and Corporate Responsibility Committees have
long been an established part of our system of corporate governance.
A summary of the terms of reference of each Board Committee is set out in the table below. The full terms of reference are available
on our website and reports by each Committee, including their activities during the year and attendance at meetings, are given on pages
97 to 104 and 106 to 133.
Minimum
number of
meetings Committee
Committee Role and terms of reference Membership per year Report on pages
Audit & Risk Reviews the financial and internal reporting process, the Independent 4 97-101
integrity of the financial statements, the system of internal Non-Executive Directors
controls, the identification and management of risks and the
external and internal audit processes. The Committee also
proposes to shareholders the appointment of the external
auditors and is directly responsible for their remuneration
and oversight of their work.
Remuneration Determines the terms of service and remuneration of the Independent 4 106-133
Executive Directors and other members of the CET and, with Non-Executive Directors
the assistance of external independent advisers, it evaluates and the Chairman
and makes recommendations to the Board on overall
executive remuneration policy.
The Chairman and the CEO are responsible for evaluating
and making recommendations to the Board on the
remuneration of Non-Executive Directors.
Nominations Reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board Independent 2 101-102
and appointment of members to the Board and the CET, Non-Executive Directors
making recommendations to the Board as appropriate. The and the Chairman
Committee also monitors the planning of succession to the
Board and CET.
Corporate Provides a Board-level forum for the regular review of Independent 3 103-104
Responsibility external issues that have the potential for serious impact Non-Executive Directors
upon the Group’s business and reputation. The Committee and the Chairman
is also responsible for oversight of GSK’s worldwide
donations and community support.
Finance Reviews and approves, on behalf of the Board, the Annual Executive and As necessary –
Report and Form 20-F and convening of the AGM, together Non-Executive Directors
with the preliminary and quarterly statements of trading
results. It also approves certain major licensing and capital
transactions and changes to the Group’s Investment
Instrument and Counterparty Limits.
Corporate Reviews and approves matters in connection with the Executive and As necessary –
Administration administration of the Group’s business and certain corporate Non-Executive
& Transactions transactions. Directors, other CET
members and the
Company Secretary88 GSK Annual Report 2011
Governance & Corporate governance continued Background Gender
remuneration
2 3
Academia Female
3 Pharmaceutical/ Male
healthcare 12
General
business
10
Effectiveness A breakdown of the experience of the Directors in different regions of
the world is set out below.
Board composition
Number of Directors with this experience
We seek to build an effective and complementary Board, whose
12
capability is appropriate for the scale, complexity and strategic
10
positioning of our business. The process for Board appointments is led
by the Nominations Committee and is described on pages 101 to 102. 8
We are mindful of the need to balance the composition of the Board 6
and its Committees and to refresh them progressively over time so that 4
we can draw upon the experience of the longer serving Directors,
2
while tapping into the new external perspectives and insights which
more recent appointees bring to the Board’s deliberations.
Europe US EMAP* Global
Non-Executive Directors are drawn from a wide range of industries * Emerging Markets and Asia Pacific
and backgrounds, including pharmaceutical and healthcare, medical
Time allocation
research and academia, media, retail and financial services, and have
appropriate experience of complex organisations with global reach.
Each Non-Executive Director has a letter of appointment which sets
Some have considerable experience of the pharmaceutical industry
out the terms and conditions of his or her directorship.
and the more recent appointees bring a new approach to the Group
and to the Board’s discussions. The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors are expected to
devote such time as is necessary for the proper performance of their
On 4 January 2011, Simon Dingemans was appointed to the Board
duties. No precise timings are given as this will vary from year to year
as Chief Financial Officer Designate. He assumed the role of CFO on
depending on the company’s activities. Directors are expected to
1 April 2011 in succession to Julian Heslop, who retired early from
attend all Board meetings, and any additional meetings as required.
the Board on 31 March 2011. On 1 April 2011, Judy Lewent and
They are also expected to attend meetings of the Committees of
Stacey Cartwright were appointed as Non-Executive Directors
which they are members, the latter parts of the Audit & Risk
as part of the Board’s ongoing refreshment programme.
Committee meetings, (which are open to all Directors), and strategy
Further changes to the Board were announced in January 2012. sessions and to make visits to operational sites. In addition, Board
James Murdoch will not offer himself for re-election at the AGM members are invited to attend at least one CET meeting a year and
in 2012 and at the AGM in 2013, following nine years’ service, may attend certain Research & Development Executive and
Sir Crispin Davis, Sir Robert Wilson and Larry Culp will not stand operational meetings.
for re-election to the Board. Length of tenure
Board diversity
The length of tenure and independence of each Non-Executive
We are committed to equal opportunities through our recruitment Director is shown below:
of employees and Board members representing all elements of
Considered
society. We aspire to create an inclusive environment where we
Date first Years from to be
seek to value and draw on the differing knowledge, perspectives, elected by first election to independent
experiences and styles resident in our global community. shareholders 2012 AGM by the Board
Sir Christopher Gent May 2005 7 *
We have a good representation of women in management
Professor Sir Roy Anderson May 2008 4 ✓
positions, but we recognise that we need to increase the
Dr Stephanie Burns May 2007 5 ✓
proportion of female employees at the most senior levels of the
Stacey Cartwright May 2011 1 ✓
company as well as our Board. Currently, 20% of our Directors
Larry Culp May 2004 8 ✓
are female, but we would like to increase this to at least 25% by
Sir Crispin Davis May 2004 8 ✓
2013. We have made some progress towards achieving this
Judy Lewent May 2011 1 ✓
objective during 2011 with the appointment of Judy Lewent and
Sir Deryck Maughan May 2005 7 ✓
Stacey Cartwright.
James Murdoch May 2009 3 ✓
The backgrounds and gender mix of the Directors are illustrated below. Dr Daniel Podolsky May 2007 5 ✓
Tom de Swaan May 2006 6 ✓
Background Gender Sir Robert Wilson May 2004 8 ✓
* Considered to be independent on appointment.
2 3
Academia Female The Board considers all its Non-Executive Directors to be
3 Pharmaceutical/ Male independent in character and judgement and free from any
healthcare 12 business or other relationship which could materially interfere with
General the exercise of their judgement. Throughout 2011, all of the
business
10 Non-Executive Directors, excluding the Chairman, were
independent Non-Executive Directors and met the criteria for
independence set out in the Code.
Number of Directors with this experience At the date of publication and throughout 2011, a majority of the
Board members, excluding the Chairman, were independent
12
Non-Executive Directors.
10
8
6
4
2
Europe US EMAP* Global
* Emerging Markets and Asia Pacific89 GSK Annual Report 2011
Board induction and training
The Company Secretary assists the Chairman in designing and facilitating a tailored induction programme for new Directors
and their ongoing training. The induction programme for Non-Executive Directors includes meetings with members of the CET and other
senior executives to explain the company’s business, the environment in which we operate and an investor’s perspective, as well as
guidance on their duties and obligations as a Director of GSK. Visits to some of our business operations are also part of the induction
programme.
To ensure that Non-Executive Directors gain and maintain a greater insight and understanding of the business, they are invited to attend
internal management meetings, including meetings of the CET, the Research & Development Executive, the Portfolio Investment Board,
the Scientific Review Board and the Risk Oversight and Compliance Council. They also meet employees during visits to the company’s
operations and receptions held around Board meetings.
The Board is kept up to date on legal, regulatory and governance matters through regular papers from the Company Secretary and
presentations by internal and external advisers.
During the year, the Board was briefed on boardroom diversity, various developments in narrative reporting and executive remuneration,
risk management, the impact of the UK and EU reviews of the audit market, market abuse and insider trading, compliance with the new
UK Bribery Act 2010, and other developments in corporate governance reporting, including the European Commission’s review of the
‘comply or explain’ principle.
The Chairman meets with each Director annually on a one-to-one basis to discuss his or her individual performance and contribution and
to agree ongoing training and development requirements.
Board evaluation
The Board carries out an evaluation of its performance and the performance of its Committees every year. The evaluation is normally carried
out by the Senior Independent Director, but every third year, the evaluation is conducted by an external facilitator. In 2008, Dr Tracy Long of
Boardroom Review carried out the evaluation and she also conducted the 2011 evaluation. Dr Long has no other connection with the company.
The action points from previous Board evaluations are set out in the table below:
Date Action Progress
2008 Utilise Board and Committee time more effectively Board and Committee papers are reviewed for appropriateness and timeliness of
and facilitate further contribution by Non-Executive circulation has improved. Meetings have been structured to create more time for
Directors. debate.
Enhance continuous education process for Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to attend a range of internal
Non-Executive Directors. management meetings and to visit Group sites.
Provide greater visibility to executive talent and An annual presentation is made to the Board on executive talent and succession
management succession planning process. plans. Opportunities for emerging talent to meet with the Board are included in
the annual Board and Committee programmes.
2009 Increase Board time devoted to strategic discussion The Board has increased its focus on R&D activities and was pleased with
and the indicators of success in the delivery of the progress on R&D during the year. Separately, in February 2011, the Remuneration
R&D pipeline. Committee granted incentive awards linked to R&D new product performance.
Devote more time to focused consideration of the The Board sought assistance from the Audit & Risk Committee (ARC) to more
company’s key risks on an ongoing basis. fully understand the Group’s key risks and continued to consider regular reports
from the ARC in 2011.
Provide the Board with more regular updates and The Board was pleased with the operation by the Nominations Committee of the
insights into the newly enhanced management enhanced succession planning process. This resulted in the appointment of the
succession planning process. Chief Financial Officer Designate and further positive progress has been made
on the recruitment of new Board members to refresh the Board with the
appointment of Stacey Cartwright and Judy Lewent as Non-Executive Directors.
2010 Allocate more time on a regular basis for strategic Board agendas have been revised to create more time for strategic discussion and
issues and the significant challenges facing the debate. Fundamental reviews of key issues have been introduced to ensure
industry to further enhance returns to shareholders. focused consideration of our strategic priorities.
Further enhance information flow by providing Board members are provided with external reports and reviews of the industry
Board members with a wider variety of external and the company to further inform their deliberations.
perspectives on the company and the industry.
Assess the extent to which the new R&D policies The Board programme has been enhanced by the inclusion of deep dive
implemented in recent years have added value. discussions on aspects of R&D, such as the R&D commercial interface and
diseases of the developing world.
Continue to support executive management on The Group’s compliance function has been reviewed and enhanced to provide
ethical leadership within the Group. further support to management in driving ethical leadership across the Group.90 GSK Annual Report 2011
Governance & Corporate governance continued
remuneration
2011 Board evaluation A summary of the conclusions of the Committee evaluations is
included in each Committee’s report.
The Board evaluation process included a one-to-one interview with
each Director and the Company Secretary. The topics discussed, The Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director,
which had been circulated to the Directors in advance, included a met separately, without the Chairman being present, to discuss the
variety of aspects associated with Board effectiveness, including Chairman’s performance. They considered that his leadership,
Board and Committee information flows, handling of strategic performance and overall contribution were of a high standard.
issues, collective effectiveness and exploration of ways to further
In addition, the Chairman met with all the Non-Executive Directors
improve the way in which the Board operates.
independently of the Executive Directors.
The key conclusions of the 2011 evaluation were presented to, and
Re-election of directors
discussed by, the Board.
At our AGM in 2011, the entire Board retired and offered themselves
Consistent with Dr Long’s findings in 2008, the review concluded
for election or re-election. Each Director was elected or re-elected
that the Board was highly effective in the way it approached its
and no Director received less than 93.9% of the votes cast. At the
work, developed its relationships and used its time. The CEO and
AGM in 2012, all of the Directors will again retire and all, with the
Executive management were welcoming of the Non-Executive
exception of James Murdoch, will offer themselves for re-election.
Directors, the quality of debate was high and there was strong
leadership by the Chairman and Committee Chairmen. The use of James Murdoch decided not to stand for re-election to the Board,
Board dinners and the Board calendar and agendas were more following his decision to re-locate to the United States and to focus
effective than when previously reviewed in 2008. The quality of on his duties as Deputy Chief Operating Officer and Chairman and
papers and presentations had further improved. Chief Executive Officer, International of News Corporation and his
role as Non-Executive Chairman of BSKyB.
The challenge, given the environment within which the company
operated, was to build on the Board’s contribution and impact. Each of the Directors standing for re-election has been subject to a
formal evaluation process and it is believed that they each continue
The Board agreed the following recommendations with a view to
to be effective and demonstrate commitment to their respective
further increasing its ability to add value:
roles. Accordingly, the Board recommends that shareholders
(i) The external landscape approve the resolutions to be proposed at the 2012 AGM relating
to the re-election of the Directors.
• T he Board agenda should dedicate time throughout the year fo r
the consideration of major external influences, including Sir Crispin Davis, Sir Robert Wilson, Larry Culp and Tom de Swaan
competitive business models, market developments, and GSK’s have each served as Non-Executive Directors for more than six
relative strengths and weaknesses to help expand the Board’s years and their performance has been subject to a rigorous review.
knowledge. The Board has concluded that they continue to be effective
Non-Executive Directors.
• T he Board would look to increase its understanding and
knowledge through individual Non-Executive Director and Board Directors’ conflicts of interest
site visits.
All Directors have a duty under the Companies Act 2006 to avoid
• G iven the size of the Board, it was important that Non-Executiv e a situation in which they have, or could have, a direct or indirect
Directors, assisted by the Company Secretary, continued to engage conflict of interest or possible conflict authorisations with the
both formally and informally with the company, drawing on company. The duty applies, in particular, to the exploitation of any
relevant personal experience inside and outside of Board meetings, property, information or opportunity whether or not GSK could
and attending relevant internal executive meetings and industry take advantage of it. Our Articles of Association provide a general
events to keep abreast of current developments. power for the Board to authorise such conflicts.
• M anagement should demonstrate to the Board how they are The Nominations Committee has been authorised by the Board
embedding the culture of risk awareness within Emerging to grant and periodically, but in any event annually, to review
Markets and how emerging risks are captured within the any potential or actual conflict authorisations. Directors are not
Assurance process. counted in the quorum for the authorisation of their own actual
or potential conflicts. Authorisations granted are recorded by
(ii) Board contribution and composition
the Company Secretary in a register and are noted by the Board
• T he Board had an opportunity to build on relevant skills an d at its next meeting.
competencies for the future as its composition was due to change
On an ongoing basis, the Directors are responsible for informing
over the next two years. It would be helpful for the Board to plan
the Company Secretary of any new actual or potential conflicts that
its composition over the next five to six years, to optimise its
may arise or if there are any changes in circumstances that may
effectiveness.
affect an authorisation previously given. Even when provided with
• T he Directors had identified two significant gaps in the Board’ s authorisation, a Director is not absolved from his or her statutory
current composition: global CEO experience and knowledge of, duty to promote the success of the company. If an actual conflict
and experience in, Emerging Markets. These aspects will be arises post authorisation, the Board may choose to exclude the
addressed in the recruitment of new Board members by the Director from receipt of the relevant information and participation
Nominations Committee. in the debate, or suspend the Director from the Board, or, as a last
resort, require the Director to resign.91 GSK Annual Report 2011
The Nominations Committee reviewed the register of potential We also attach importance to clear principles and procedures
conflict authorisations in October 2011 and reported to the Board designed to achieve appropriate accountability and control. A
that the conflicts had been appropriately authorised and that the Group policy, ‘Risk Management and Legal Compliance’, mandates
process for authorisation continues to operate effectively. that our business units establish processes for managing and
monitoring risks significant to their businesses and the Group.
Independent advice
The business units and the majority of global support functions
The Board recognises that there may be occasions when one or
prepare reports annually, in collaboration with Global Compliance
more of the Directors feel it is necessary to take independent legal
(see page 92), summarising risk management activities. These
and/or financial advice at the company’s expense. There is an
reports are reviewed by the relevant Risk Management and
agreed procedure, which is set out on our website, to enable them
Compliance Board (RMCB) for each operation and subsequently
to do so.
reported to the Risk Oversight and Compliance Council (ROCC) and
Indemnification of Directors the ARC.
Qualifying third party indemnity provisions (as defined in the Risk Oversight and Compliance Council
Companies Act 2006) are in force for the benefit of Directors and
The ROCC is a council of senior executives authorised by the Board
former Directors who held office during 2011 and up to the signing
to assist the ARC in overseeing the risk management and internal
of the Annual Report.
control activities of the Group. Membership comprises several CET
Accountability members, the Company Secretary and some of the heads of
departments with internal control, risk management, assurance,
Internal control framework audit and compliance responsibilities.
The Board recognises its responsibility to present a balanced and The ROCC meets on a regular basis to review and assess significant
understandable assessment of the Group’s position and prospects. risks and their mitigation plans and to provide oversight of internal
controls to ensure compliance with applicable laws, regulations and
The Board has accountability for reviewing and approving the
our internal policies. The ROCC, responding to our Group risk
adequacy and effectiveness of internal controls operated by the
management and legal compliance policy, has provided the
Group, including financial, operational and compliance controls and
business units with a framework for risk management and upward
risk management. The Board has delegated responsibility for such
reporting of significant risks. Mitigation planning and identification
review to the Audit & Risk Committee (ARC), which receives regular
of an individual with overall responsibility for management of any
reporting aligned with our Assurance Programme.
given risk is mandatory.
It is the responsibility of management, through the CET, to
Risk Management and Compliance Boards
implement Board policies on risk and control. The CET is responsible
for identifying, approving, monitoring and enforcing key policies RMCBs have been established in each of the major business units.
that go to the heart of how the Group conducts business. They often comprise members of the senior executive team of the
respective business unit, augmented by specialists where
The internal control framework includes central direction, resource
appropriate. The RMCBs oversee management of all risks that are
allocation, oversight and risk management of the key activities of
considered important for their respective business units, including
R&D, manufacturing, marketing and sales, legal, human resources,
those risks that are designated as significant to GSK as a whole,
information systems and financial practice. As part of this
thus increasing the number of risks that are actively managed
framework, there is a financial planning system with an annual
across the Group.
budget approved by the Board. The results of operating units are
reported monthly and compared with the budget. Forecasts are Each business unit and global support function must periodically
prepared regularly during the year. review the significant risks facing its operations. This review should
include identifying operational risks, legal compliance risks and risks
We also have in place established procedures to identify and
to the achievement of strategic goals and objectives. The review
consolidate reporting entities. Our control activities include policies
generally occurs annually and should be embedded within, and
and practices covering appropriate authorisation and approval of
aligned to, the annual planning process to ensure that significant
transactions, the application of financial reporting standards and
risks are identified with changes in management direction and the
reviews of significant judgments and financial performance.
external environment.
Extensive financial, regulatory and operational controls, procedures
and risk activities are reviewed by the Group’s internal auditors.
Responsibility for risk management and control is clearly delegated
to local business units, supported by our regional management
structure. These principles are designed to provide an environment
of central leadership, coupled with local operating autonomy, as
the framework for the exercise of accountability and control within
the Group.92 GSK Annual Report 2011
Governance & Corporate governance continued
remuneration
Our internal control framework and the interaction of the various elements are set out below:
Risk Oversight
Audit
and
& Risk
Compliance
Committee
Council
Risk
Global
Management
Quality
and Compliance
Council
Boards
Global
Business units Product Audit & Assurance
Quality
Office
Independent
External audit/
Emerging Business Business Internal review of
Business regulatory Incidents/
risk control Quality audit business unit
monitoring agency events
management infrastructure Heads activity and internal
outcome
audit activity
GSK Risk Universe
Management Quality Internal Assurance
audit
Global Compliance In 2011, Global Compliance conducted a review of its global
strategy, structure and supporting processes, with a focus on
The ROCC and the RMCBs are assisted by the Global Compliance
standardisation and simplification and the intention of providing
department, which is responsible for supporting the development
more consistent and effective oversight within an increasingly
and implementation of practices that facilitate employees’
complex business model.
compliance with laws and Group policy.
During the year, the Global Compliance Leadership Team agreed
The thrust of our compliance efforts is the promotion of ethical
the global strategy, common roles and responsibilities, and baseline
behaviour and corporate responsibility in accordance with our
expectations for which the organisation will be held accountable.
values and due diligence in preventing and detecting misconduct
The new Global Compliance organisation comprises three groups:
or non-compliance with laws or regulations, supported by effective
compliance systems. • G lobal Compliance Business Partners, who are aligned to each
business unit. Their role is to proactively partner with senior
Our employees are encouraged to seek help and to report concerns
leaders to drive a values and compliance-based culture and
or suspected cases of misconduct without the fear of retaliation.
improve risk identification and management practices;
Employees can do this through line management or via our
integrity and confidential reporting lines managed by Global • G lobal Compliance Operations centrally manages our compliance
Compliance. All concerns and allegations are fairly and activities (e.g. analytics, reporting, communications, policy
independently investigated and disciplinary action, if applicable, is administration, project management and training), with a focus
commensurate with the issues presented. on efficiency, consistency and continuous improvement; and
The Global Compliance department is managed by the Head of • G lobal Compliance Investigations co-ordinates all compliance-
Governance, Ethics and Assurance, a CET member, who reports related investigations, ensuring consistency and efficiency of
directly to the CEO. He chairs the ROCC and provides summary investigations across geographies and business units.
reports on the ROCC’s activities and the Group’s significant risks
to the CET and the ARC on a regular basis. His direct reporting line
to the ARC provides a mechanism for bypassing executive
management should the need ever arise.93 GSK Annual Report 2011
Global Product Quality Office Assurance Excellence & Operations provides central oversight and
support to: drive integration and holistic assurance delivery; raise
In 2011, a new central Global Product Quality Office was
standards of assurance through enhanced talent development,
established to strengthen the independence of leadership and
continuous improvement and benchmarking, and quality oversight;
governance of our Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) product
enhance assurance reporting to the business units and the ARC
quality activities company wide.
regarding the state of control over key risks to the organisation;
The Global Product Quality Office will provide a common and deliver assurance over emerging risks to GSK through Strategic
governance framework for this risk area, and have oversight Risk Evaluations (SREs).
responsibility for developing common quality standards and
SREs supplement the Internal Audit programme, by examining
systems across GSK for the manufacture of consumer,
emerging risks facing GSK. SREs are conducted by our assurance
pharmaceutical and vaccine products in accordance with GMP.
teams in partnership with the business. The approach is designed
Our Chief Product Quality Officer serves as the ultimate
to evaluate risk areas and enable the development, implementation
independent central point of contact for the escalation of product
and/or evolution of appropriate mitigation plans.
quality issues anywhere across the Group that need resolution or
additional attention. Our Anti-Bribery and Corruption Programme (ABAC) is part of our
response to the risk of bribery and corruption. It builds on our
Audit & Assurance
values and existing standards to form a comprehensive and
Audit & Assurance has responsibility for independently assessing practical approach to compliance in this complex risk area. The
the adequacy and effectiveness of the management of significant ABAC Programme is overseen by the Anti-Bribery & Corruption
risk areas and reporting outcomes to the ARC in line with an team, who provide advisory support and routine audits of this risk.
agreed Assurance Plan. The internal audit group is comprised of Details of our ABAC Programme are available on our website.
seven principal teams focused in the following areas: The Head of Audit & Assurance acts as the Global Risk Officer
• C ommercial and Financial Internal Audit with support from the Director, Risk Management.
Risk Management is responsible for maintaining GSK’s risk
• I nformation Technology Internal Audit
management framework and supporting the business in identifying
• M anufacturing Internal Audit (including Environment, Health, key risks. The management of risks is owned by the business.
Safety and Sustainability) See ‘Risk Management’ on page 94.
• R &D Internal Audit The ARC has ongoing oversight of the effectiveness of Audit &
Assurance through its review of the Assurance Plan and related
• A ssurance Excellence & Operations
delivery of commitments, as well as through periodic quality
• A nti-Bribery & Corruption assessment reviews conducted by the external auditors.
• R isk Management Assurance reporting
All internal audit activity is conducted by a single organisation Assurance reporting to the ARC follows a structured programme,
under the leadership of the Head of Audit & Assurance, who integrating reporting from business units and Audit & Assurance.
reports to the Head of Governance, Ethics and Assurance, but
Our business units and the majority of global support functions
also has an independent reporting line to the ARC Chairman. The
prepare reports annually that detail their risk management and
global audit function allows for more holistic assurance,
compliance approaches, providing balanced assessments of the
consistency in approach, and independence in reporting. This
status of internal controls over key risks, and highlighting any
has helped eliminate overlaps, gaps and the potential for over
significant compliance issues. All support functions report at least
or under auditing.
biennially. Managers must oversee risks that are considered
Internal Audit undertakes a continuous process of risk assessment important for their respective business units, including those risks
that contributes to the evolution of our audit strategies and that are designated as significant to the Group. Information
compilation and delivery of the audit schedule. This approach regarding the controls in place to manage these risks is provided to
allows Audit & Assurance to respond expeditiously to changes assure the ARC that these risks are adequately managed within the
in our business and risk environment and to ensure that our audit internal control framework.
strategies are fit-for-purpose.
In addition, significant compliance issues and internal audit results
When issues or control deficiencies are identified during are escalated to the ROCC and the ARC at the earliest opportunity.
audit engagements, Internal Audit recommends processes for
improvement. Our managers develop corrective action plans to
address the causes of non-compliance with, and gaps in, internal
controls.
Internal Audit then tracks these plans to completion and reports
results to executive management and the ARC. Internal audit
results are also compiled and reported to the ROCC and the ARC
as detailed in the Assurance reporting section below.94 GSK Annual Report 2011
Governance & Corporate governance continued
remuneration
Risk management Relations with shareholders
Our risk management programme extends beyond legal and
We work to engage effectively with shareholders through our
regulatory issues and considers our overall strategy and changes in
regular communications, the AGM and other investor relations
the external environment. Furthermore, risk management principles
activities.
are embedded within management practices and are part of the
business strategy and objective setting process. We announce our financial results on a quarterly basis. The annual
results are included in our Annual Report. All shareholders receive
For details of risks affecting the Group, see ‘Risk factors’ on
an annual summary leaflet which advises them that our Annual
pages 72 to 77 and Note 44 to the financial statements,
Report and Notice of our Annual General Meeting are available
‘Legal proceedings’.
on our website.
Monitoring risk and effectiveness of controls
Our CEO and CFO give live presentations to institutional investors,
The internal control framework has been in operation for the whole analysts and media with the half and full year results, which are
of the year under review and continues to operate up to the date of also available via webcast and teleconference. After the first and
approval of this report. The system of internal controls is designed third quarter results, we hold webcast teleconferences for the same
to manage rather than eliminate the risk of not achieving business audience. Our results are available on our website.
objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute Our investor relations department, with offices in London and
assurance against material misstatement or loss. Philadelphia, acts as a focal point for communications with
The ARC receives reports on areas of significant risk to the Group investors. The CEO, CFO and Chairman maintain a continuous
and on related internal controls. Following consideration of these dialogue with institutional shareholders on performance, plans and
reports and those received via the Assurance framework, the ARC objectives through a programme of regular meetings. During the
reports annually to the Board on the effectiveness of controls. year over 240 meetings were held with major shareholders.
There are areas of our business where it is necessary to take risks to The Company Secretary acts as a focal point for communications
achieve a satisfactory return for shareholders, such as investment in on corporate governance matters. We also have a small central
R&D and in acquiring new products or businesses. During 2011, the Corporate Responsibility (CR) team which co-ordinates strategy,
ARC, in conjunction with the full Board, considered and reviewed policy development and reporting specifically with respect to CR
the nature and extent of these risks and the risks associated with and communicates with socially responsible investors and other
achieving the company’s strategic objectives. stakeholders.
In these cases, it is our objective to apply expertise in the prudent The Chairman also meets regularly with institutional shareholders
management, rather than elimination, of risk. The Board’s review to hear their views and discuss issues of mutual importance and
relates to the company and its subsidiaries and does not extend to communicates their views to the other members of the Board. The
material associated undertakings, joint ventures or other Senior Independent Director and all the Non-Executive Directors
investments, although it considers the risk of its participation in are available to meet with shareholders.
these activities. The Remuneration Committee Chairman, the Chairman, the Head
The Board, through the ARC, has reviewed the assessment of risks of Human Resources and the Company Secretary hold annual
and the internal control framework that operates in GSK and has meetings with major shareholders to discuss executive
considered the effectiveness of the system of internal control in remuneration and governance matters.
operation in the Group for the year covered by this report and up We have a briefing process in place, managed by the Chairman, for
to the date of its approval by the Board. The process followed by Non-Executive Directors to focus on sector specific issues and
the Board in reviewing the system of internal controls accords with general shareholder preferences.
the guidance on internal control issued by the Turnbull Committee.
AGM
This is in accordance with the new provisions of the UK Corporate
Governance Code, which provide that the Board is responsible for Our AGM is held in London and notice is given to shareholders at
determining the nature and extent of the significant risks it is willing least one month before the meeting. The AGM includes a
to take in achieving its strategic objectives. The Board provides presentation about the business and Directors answer shareholder
oversight to ensure that GSK maintains sound risk management questions both during the meeting and informally afterwards. All
and internal control systems. the Directors attended the AGM on 5 May 2011 with the exception
of Larry Culp, who was unable to attend due to a pressing business
Remuneration
commitment arising from his responsibilities as President and Chief
Executive Officer of Danaher Corporation. Sir Deryck Maughan
Our Remuneration Report, which describes the level and
participated in the meeting by telephone as he was unable to
components of the remuneration of the Directors, is set out on
travel.
pages 106 to 133.
Voting on all the resolutions at the AGM is on a poll and the full
results, including votes withheld, are published on our website.95 GSK Annual Report 2011
Total votes cast for each resolution ranged from 3.8 to 3.9 billion Shareholders are entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend
shares. The percentages of votes for and against are shown in the the AGM and to speak and vote on their behalf provided that, in
table below, together with the number of votes withheld for each the event that a single shareholder appoints multiple proxies, each
resolution. Please note that a vote withheld is not a vote in law and proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different
is not counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes ‘for’ or share or shares held by that member.
‘against’ each resolution.
Share capital and control
*Total Total
votes votes Votes Details of our issued share capital and the number of shares held in
for against withheld Treasury as at 31 December 2011 can be found in Note 33 to the
(%) (%) million
financial statements, ‘Share capital and share premium account’.
1 Adoption of Financial Statements 99.9 0.1 4.8 Our shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange and are also
2 Approval of the Remuneration 92.9 7.1 82.8 quoted on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) in the form of
Report American Depositary Shares (ADS). Each ADS represents two
3-17 Election and re-election of 93.9 0.1 5.2
Ordinary Shares.
Directors to 99.9 to 6.1 to 5.6
18 Re-appointment of auditors 99.3 0.7 60 Holders of Ordinary Shares are entitled to receive dividends, when
19 Remuneration of auditors 99.7 0.3 26.5 declared, and the company’s Annual Report, to attend and speak
20 To authorise the company to 97.6 2.4 8.6 at general meetings of the company, to appoint proxies and to
make donations to political exercise voting rights.
organisations and incur political There are no restrictions on the transfer, or limitations on the
expenditure holding, of Ordinary Shares and no requirements to obtain prior
21 Authority to allot shares 98.2 1.8 6.6 approval to any transfers. No Ordinary Shares carry any special
22 Disapplication of pre-emption 99.0 1.0 8.8 rights with regard to control of the company and there are no
rights† restrictions on voting rights. Major shareholders have the same
23 Authority for the company to 98.2 1.8 5 voting rights per share as all other shareholders.
purchase its own shares†
24 Exemption from statement of 99.5 0.5 9.2 There are no known arrangements under which financial rights are
senior statutory auditor’s name held by a person other than the holder of the shares and no known
25 Reduced notice of a general 92.2 7.8 7 agreements on restrictions on share transfers or on voting rights.
meeting other than an AGM†
Shares acquired through our share schemes and plans rank equally
* I ncludes discretionary votes. with the other shares in issue and have no special rights. The
† Indicates a special resolution. trustees of our Employee Share Ownership Plan trusts have waived
their rights to dividends on shares held by those trusts.
Our 2012 AGM will be held on 3 May 2012 at The Queen Elizabeth II
Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London Change of control and essential contracts
SW1P 3EE. The business to be proposed at the meeting, together
We do not have contracts or other arrangements which individually
with explanatory notes, is set out in the separate Notice of
are fundamental to the ability of the business to operate effectively,
Meeting. The ordinary business of the meeting will include:
nor is the company party to any material agreements that would
• r eceiving and adopting the Annual Report 2011;
take effect, be altered, or terminate upon a change of control
• a pproving the Remuneration Report; following a takeover bid.
• t he retirement and re-election of Directors; and We do not have agreements with any Director that would provide
• t he re-appointment and remuneration of the auditors. compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a
takeover, except that provisions of the company’s share plans may
As special business we will seek authority to:
cause options and awards granted under such plans to vest on a
• m ake donations to EU political organisations and incur EU takeover. Details of the termination provisions in the company’s
political expenditure up to £100,000; framework contracts for Executive Directors are given on page 121.
• a llot Ordinary Shares of the company; Interests in voting rights
• a llow the Directors to disapply pre-emption rights when allotting
Other than as stated below, as far as we are aware, there are no
new shares in connection with rights issues or otherwise up to
persons with significant direct or indirect holdings in the company.
a maximum of 5% of the current issued share capital and to
Information provided to the company pursuant to the Financial
purchase the company’s own Ordinary Shares up to a maximum
Services Authority’s (FSA) Disclosure and Transparency Rules (DTRs)
of just under 10% of the current issued share capital;
is published on a Regulatory Information Service and on the
• e xempt the auditors from having to state the name of thei r company’s website.
senior statutory auditor for the company in the Annual Report;
• r educe the notice required to call a general meeting, other than
an Annual General Meeting, to not less than 14 clear days; and
• r enew the GlaxoSmithKline ShareSave Plan and the
GlaxoSmithKline ShareReward Plan.96 GSK Annual Report 2011
Governance & Corporate governance continued
remuneration
At 2 March 2012, the company had received notifications in Articles of Association
accordance with the FSA’s DTRs of the following notifiable interests
Our Directors’ powers are determined by UK legislation and our
in the voting rights in the company’s issued share capital:
Articles of Association, which are available on our website. The
Percentage of Articles may be amended by a special resolution of the members.
No. of issued The Directors may exercise all the company’s powers provided that
shares capital (%)*
the Articles or applicable legislation do not stipulate that any such
BlackRock, Inc. 300,912,446 5.96
powers must be exercised by the members.
Legal & General Group Plc 173,787,038 3.44
The Board has been authorised to issue and allot Ordinary Shares
* P ercentage of Ordinary Shares in issue, excluding Treasury shares.
under Article 9. The power under Article 9 and the authority for
The Bank of New York Mellon is the Depositary for the company’s the company to make purchases of its own shares are subject to
ADS, which are listed on the NYSE. Ordinary Shares representing shareholder authorities which are sought on an annual basis at our
the company’s ADR program, which is managed by the Depositary, AGM. Any shares purchased by the company may be cancelled or
are registered in the name of BNY (Nominees) Limited. Details of held as Treasury shares.
the number of Ordinary Shares held by the Depositary can be
Share buy-back programme
found on page 245.
We have not acquired or disposed of any interests in our own On 3 February 2011, we initiated a new long-term share buy-back
shares during the period under review, other than in connection programme and expected to buy-back £1-2 billion of shares in
with our share buy-back programme. 2011. The expected upper level of this £1-2 billion band was
subsequently increased to up to £2.3 billion on 26 October 2011.
Directors and Senior Management
During 2011, 169 million shares were purchased at a total cost of
The interests of Directors and Senior Management and their £2,191 million. No shares were purchased in the period 1 January
connected persons in the issued share capital of the company are 2012 to 7 February 2012. In the period 8 February 2012 to
given in the Remuneration Report (pages 106 to 133). 2 March 2012, 8.6 million shares were purchased at a cost of
£122.3 million.
The rules about the appointment and replacement of Directors are
contained in our Articles of Association. Our programme covers purchases of shares for cancellation or
to be held as Treasury shares, in accordance with the authority
Our Articles provide that Directors may be appointed by an renewed by shareholders at the AGM in May 2011, when the
ordinary resolution of the members or by a resolution of the company was authorised to purchase a maximum of just over
Directors, provided that, in the latter instance, a Director appointed 518 million shares. Details of shares purchased, those cancelled,
in this way retires at the first AGM following his appointment. and those held as Treasury shares are disclosed in Note 33 to the
Our Articles also provide that Directors should normally be subject financial statements ‘Share capital and share premium account’.
to re-election at the AGM at intervals of three years or annually if The exact amount and timing of any future purchases, and the
they have held office for a continuous period of nine years or more. extent to which repurchased shares will be held as Treasury shares
However, the Board agreed in 2011 that all Directors, who wish to rather than being cancelled, will be determined by the company
continue as members of the Board, should seek re-election and is dependent on market conditions and other factors.
annually in accordance with the Code. Members may remove a
Donations to political organisations and political
Director by passing an ordinary resolution of which special notice
has been given, or by passing a special resolution. A Director may expenditure
automatically cease to be a Director if:
With effect from 1 January 2009, to ensure a consistent approach
• h e or she becomes bankrupt or compounds with his or he r to political contributions across the Group, we introduced a global
creditors generally; policy to stop voluntarily all corporate political contributions.
• h e or she ceases to be a Director by virtue of the Companies Ac t In the period from 1 January 2009 to 31 December 2011, the
or the Articles; Group did not make any political donations to EU or non-EU
organisations.
• h e or she is suffering from mental or physical ill health ;
Notwithstanding the introduction of this policy, in accordance
• h e or she has missed Directors’ meetings for a continuous period
with the Federal Election Campaign Act in the US, we continue
of six months without permission and the Board resolves that
to support an employee-operated Political Action Committee
he or she shall cease to be a Director;
(PAC) that facilitates voluntary political donations by eligible
• h e or she is prohibited from being a Director by law ; GSK employees.
• h e or she resigns; The PAC is not controlled by GSK. Decisions on the amounts and
recipients of contributions are made by participating employees
• h e or she offers to resign and the Board accepts that offer; o r
exercising their legal right to pool their resources and make political
• a ll other Directors (being at least three in number) require contributions, which are subject to strict limitations. In 2011 a total
him or her to resign. of US$612,500 (US$824,000 in 2010) was donated to political
organisations by the GSK employee PAC.97 GSK Annual Report 2011
At the AGM in May 2001, shareholders first authorised the Audit & Risk Committee Report
company to make donations to EU political organisations and to
incur EU political expenditure, under the provisions of the Political
Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000, of up to £100,000
each year. This authority has since been renewed annually. The
Companies Act 2006 requires companies to continue to obtain
shareholder approval before they can make donations to EU
political organisations or incur EU political expenditure.
However, we do not make and do not intend to make donations
to political parties or independent election candidates, nor do we
Dear Shareholder
make any donations to EU political organisations or incur EU
political expenditure. The current global political and economic environment has created
additional challenges for business. The Committee’s work and our
The definitions of political donations, political expenditure and
Audit & Assurance and Compliance models continue to adapt and
political organisations used in the legislation are very wide. In
evolve to help maintain and improve the integrity of our financial
particular, the definition of EU political organisations may extend to
and internal controls and the effective identification and
bodies such as those concerned with policy review, law reform, the
management of risk in response to these challenges.
representation of the business community and special interest
groups such as those concerned with the environment, which the During 2011, the Committee’s agenda included the usual review
company and its subsidiaries might wish to support. As a result, the of our financial results and controls, our business operations across
definitions may cover legitimate business activities not in the the world and their management of risk, as well as focusing
ordinary sense considered to be political donations or political consideration on other matters including:
expenditure. Such activities are not designed to support any • c oncluding the US government investigations into sales and
political party or independent election candidate. The authority marketing practices;
which the Board has sought annually is a precautionary measure to
• o verseeing the management of sovereign debt;
ensure that the company and its subsidiaries do not inadvertently
• p rotecting our IT security and prevention of cyber crime;
breach the legislation.
• u nderstanding the nature of the problems and corporate
Committee reports
governance failures which occurred at Olympus, the Japanese
camera manufacturer;
The reports of the Audit & Risk, Nominations and Corporate
Responsibility Committees, describing the activities of those • m onitoring progress on the implementation of our globa l
Committees during the year, are set out below. Enterprise Resource Planning system; and
• r eviewing the establishment of our enhanced Anti-Bribery
and Corruption Programme.
At each meeting we also considered if there were any emerging
risks which could impact the Group. These discussions provided an
opportunity for Committee members and other attendees to raise
any issues which warranted further consideration, investigation
or attention.
Our internal control framework has been further strengthened with
the establishment of our new Global Product Quality Office. This
will increase the independence of the leadership and governance of
our Good Manufacturing Practice product quality activities across
the Group. In addition, we consolidated our compliance network
into a new Global Compliance organisation to provide more
consistent and effective oversight across the Group.
I was delighted to welcome Stacey Cartwright, Chief Financial
Officer of Burberry, and Judy Lewent, former President and
Chief Financial Officer of Merck & Co., Inc., as members of the
Committee. They bring with them considerable financial experience
and expertise and, as a result, the Board has determined that they,
like me, should be designated as audit committee financial experts.
This will be my last year as Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee. I
will remain a member of the Committee, but Judy will succeed me as
Chair of the Committee with effect from 1 January 2013.
Tom de Swaan
Audit & Risk Committee Chairman98 GSK Annual Report 2011
Governance & Corporate governance continued
remuneration
Membership Main responsibilities
The membership of the Audit & Risk Committee (the Committee), The main responsibilities of the Committee are set out on page 87.
together with appointment dates and attendance at meetings, is
The Committee’s oversight role requires it to address regularly the
set out below:
relationships between management and the internal and external
auditors and to understand and monitor the reporting relationships
Attendance at
full meetings and tiers of accountability between them.
Members Committee member since during 2011
Tom de Swaan The Committee receives regular reports from members of the CET
(Chairman from and senior managers covering the key risk management and
1 September 2006) 1 January 2006 6/6 compliance activities of the Group, including those covering R&D,
Professor Sir Roy Anderson 20 May 2009 6/6 manufacturing, sales and marketing and corporate functions.
Stacey Cartwright 1 April 2011 3/4 Further details of the reporting framework to the Committee are
Judy Lewent 1 April 2011 4/4 set out on pages 91 to 94 under ‘Accountability’.
Sir Deryck Maughan 21 January 2005 6/6
The Committee also reviews the quarterly results of the Group
Dr Daniel Podolsky 1 January 2007 6/6
prepared by management and considers reports on key
Sir Robert Wilson 12 December 2003 6/6
accounting issues.
The Committee’s meetings are split into two parts: The Committee reviews its terms of reference on an annual basis.
No material changes to the terms of reference were made in 2011.
• P art one deals with the more fundamental aspects of interna l
financial control and considers standing items, such as receiving Qualifications of Audit & Risk Committee members
reports from the external auditors and Audit & Assurance.
Committee members, with the exception of Professor Sir Roy
• T he entire Board is invited to attend Part two of the Committee’ s Anderson and Dr Daniel Podolsky, bring considerable financial
meetings, which usually considers developments in the external and accounting experience to the Committee’s work. Members
risk environment, receives legal updates, new business unit and have past employment experience in either finance or accounting
corporate function reports and reports on the outcome of roles or comparable experience in corporate activities. Sir Roy
Strategic Risk Evaluations and other topical issues. and Dr Podolsky are, respectively, a world-renowned medical
In addition to the six scheduled meetings, the Committee also met scientist and a world-renowned researcher and this enables them
on a quorate basis on five occasions. to bring scientific expertise to the Committee’s deliberations.
Other attendees at Committee meetings include:
Regular Attends
Attendee attendee as required
Chairman ✓
CEO ✓
CFO ✓
General Counsel ✓
Financial Controller ✓
Head of Audit & Assurance ✓
Company Secretary – Secretary to the
Committee ✓
Chairman, Research & Development ✓
Chief Medical Officer – Part two only ✓
Head of Governance, Ethics & Assurance ✓
Chief Product Quality Officer ✓
External auditors ✓99 GSK Annual Report 2011
In 2011, the Committee worked to a structured programme of
Financial and accounting experience
activities, with standing items that the Committee is required to
Tom de Swaan • C hief Financial Officer of ABN AMRO unti l consider at each meeting, together with other matters timed to
31 December 2005 coincide with key events of the annual financial reporting cycle:
• N on-Executive Director of KPMG Europe LLP’s
Public Interest Committee
External auditors Reported on all critical accounting policies,
significant judgements and practices used by the
Stacey Cartwright • E xecutive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer
Group, alternative accounting treatments which
of Burberry Group plc
had been discussed with management and their
• F ormer Chief Financial Officer of Egg plc
resultant conclusion, material written
• V arious finance-related positions at Granada
communications with management and any
Group plc
restrictions on access to information.
Judy Lewent • F ormer Executive Vice President and Chief CFO Reported on the financial performance of the
Financial Officer of Merck & Co., Inc. Group and on technical financial and accounting
matters.
Sir Deryck Maughan • A Partner of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co.
General Counsel Reported on material litigation.
• F ormer Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of
Citigroup International Company Secretary R eported on corporate governance.
• F ormer Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer of Salomon Brothers Inc. Head of Governance, Reported on the activities undertaken by
Ethics and the ROCC.
Sir Robert Wilson • C hairman of BG Group plc Assurance
• Economist
Heads of audit and The majority of the heads of these groups
• F ormer Chairman of The Economist Group
assurance and the reported on their audit scope, annual coverage
• F ormer Executive Chairman of Rio Tinto
Group’s compliance and audit resources and on the results of audits
and audit groups conducted throughout the year.
Scientific expertise Company Secretary, Reported on matters that affected the quality
as Chair of the and timely disclosure of financial and other
Professor Sir Roy • A world-renowned medical scientist with
Disclosure Committee* material information to the Board, to the public
Anderson advanced knowledge of infectious disease
markets and to shareholders. This enabled the
epidemiology
Committee to review the clarity and
• P rofessor of Infectious Disease Epidemiology in
completeness of the disclosures in the published
the Faculty of Medicine, Imperial College, London
annual financial statements, interim reports,
• F ellow of the Royal Society
quarterly and preliminary results announcements
• F oreign Associate Member of the Institute
and other formal announcements relating to
of Medicine at the US National Academy
financial performance prior to approval by the
of Sciences
Board.
• F oreign Associate Member of the French
Academy of Sciences Head of Audit & Reported on the progress of the global assurance
• F ormer Chief Scientific Adviser at the Ministry o f Assurance plan to review the assurance for each significant
Defence in the UK risk throughout the Group.
Dr Daniel Podolsky • A world-renowned researcher with advanced * S ee ‘Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002’ on page 104.
knowledge of underlying mechanisms of disease The Committee, management, internal auditors and the full Board
and new therapies for gastrointestinal disorders
work together to ensure the quality of the company’s corporate
• P resident of the University of Texas
accounting and financial reporting. The Committee serves as the
Southwestern Medical Center
primary link between the Board and the external and internal
• Member of the Institute of Medicine of the
US National Academy of Sciences auditors. This facilitates the necessary independence from
• D oris and Bryan Wildenthal Distinguished Chair management and encourages the external and internal auditors to
in Medical Science communicate freely and regularly with the Committee. In 2011, the
• Former Mallinckrodt Professor of Medicine, Committee met both collectively and separately with the external
Harvard Medical School auditors, the Head of Audit & Assurance and the Head of
• F ormer Chief Academic Officer, Partners Governance, Ethics and Assurance without members of
Healthcare
management being present.
The Board has determined that these members are audit committee financial The Chairman of the Committee is also a member of the
experts for purposes of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. In addition, the
Remuneration Committee and provides input on the Committee’s
Board is satisfied that each of these members has recent and relevant
financial experience for purposes of the Code. review of the Group’s performance and oversight on any risk
factors relevant to remuneration matters.100 GSK Annual Report 2011
Governance & Corporate governance continued
remuneration
External auditors’ appointment and fees Consideration is also given by the Committee to the need to
include the risk of the withdrawal of the external auditors from the
The Committee has primary responsibility for making a
market in its risk evaluation and planning.
recommendation to shareholders on the appointment,
re-appointment and removal of the external auditors by assessing, The external auditors are required to rotate the audit engagement
on an annual basis, the qualifications, expertise, resources and partner every five years. The current audit partner commenced
independence of the external auditors and the effectiveness of the his engagement on 1 January 2008 and is not subject to rotation
previous audit process. until after the audit of GSK’s financial statements for 2012 has
been concluded.
In evaluating the effectiveness of the audit process prior to making
a recommendation on the re-appointment of the external auditors, The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 prohibits the engagement of the
the Committee reviews the effectiveness of their performance external auditors for the provision of certain services such as legal,
against criteria which it agrees, in conjunction with management, actuarial, internal audit outsourcing, or financial information
at the beginning of each year’s audit. As part of this process, the systems design. Where the external auditors are permitted to
Committee considers feedback on the prior year’s external audit provide non-audit services, the Committee ensures that auditor
gathered through a client satisfaction survey facilitated by the objectivity and independence are safeguarded by a policy requiring
auditors’ client service review team, which is independent of the pre-approval by the Committee for such services. The total fees for
engagement team that undertook the audit work. The survey seeks non-audit work do not exceed 50% of the audit fee except in
feedback from the financial management team at corporate and special circumstances where there would be a clear advantage in
business unit level. Having reviewed the feedback, provided the the company’s auditors undertaking such additional work. These
Committee is satisfied with the effectiveness of the external audit services may include audit, audit-related, tax and other services.
process, it will recommend the re-appointment of the auditors Pre-approval is detailed as to the particular service or categories of
at the forthcoming AGM. services, and is subject to a specific budget.
Details of the criteria for judging the effectiveness of the external There are guidelines which set out the Group’s policy on engaging
auditors are set out below: the external auditors to provide non-audit services, which include:
• a scertaining that the skills and experience of the externa l
• d eliver a smooth-running, thorough and efficiently executed
auditors make them a suitable supplier of the non-audit services;
audit;
• e nsuring adequate safeguards are in place so that the objectivity
• p rovide accurate, up to date knowledge of technical issues on
and independence of the Group audit are not threatened or
a timely basis;
compromised; and
• s erve as an industry resource, communicating best practice
• e nsuring that the fee levels relative to the annual audit fee are
and industry trends in reporting;
within the limits set by the Committee.
• a dhere to all independence policies including GSK’s policies ,
ISA (UK+I) 220 and SEC requirements; The external auditors and management report regularly to the
Committee regarding the extent of services provided in accordance
• d eliver a focused and consistent audit approach globally tha t
with this pre-approval and the fees for the services performed. The
reflects local risks and materiality;
Committee may also pre-approve additional services on a case-by-
• l iaise with Audit & Assurance function to avoid duplication o f case basis. Fees paid to the Company’s auditor and its associates
work; and are set out below. Further details are given in Note 9 to the
financial statements, ‘Operating profit’.
• provide consistency of advice at all levels.
Before agreeing the audit fee proposed by the external auditors, £m
which is reviewed by management, the Committee considers cost 2011 17.3
comparisons to ensure that it is fair and appropriate for GSK. 2011 6.4
There are no contractual obligations that restrict the Committee’s 2010 16.5
capacity to recommend a particular firm as external auditors to 2010 5.7
the Group.
2009 15.2
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP have remained in place as auditors 2009 8.9
since the Group’s inception in December 2000. Their performance
Audit and assurance services
has been reviewed annually by the Committee since that time.
All other services, including tax, regulatory, compliance and
In making its assessment, the Committee considers papers which treasury related services
detail the relevant UK legislative, regulatory and professional
requirements relating to external auditors and evaluates reports
from the external auditors on their compliance with the
requirements, on the safeguards that have been established and
on their own internal quality control procedures.101 GSK Annual Report 2011
Code of Conduct and reporting lines Nominations Committee Report
We also have a number of well established policies, including a
Code of Conduct, which is available on our website, and
confidential reporting lines for the reporting and investigation of
unlawful conduct. No waivers to the Code of Conduct were made
in 2011.
The Committee reviews regular reports about the arrangements
available to employees to encourage them to seek help and to
report concerns or suspected cases of misconduct without fear Sir Christopher Gent
of retaliation. Nominations Committee Chairman
Committee evaluation
Membership
The Committee considered Dr Long’s evaluation of the Board, and
The membership of the Nominations Committee (the Committee),
the Committee in particular, and concluded that the Committee
together with appointment dates and attendance at meetings, is
continued to operate effectively. In respect of Dr Long’s specific
set out below:
observations, it was agreed that the Committee should ask
management to demonstrate how they are embedding the culture Attendance at
of risk awareness within Emerging Markets and how emerging full meetings
risks are captured within the Assurance process. Members Committee member since during 2011
Sir Christopher Gent
(Chairman from
1 January 2005) 9 December 2004 4/4
Larry Culp 28 March 2008 4/4
Sir Crispin Davis 9 July 2009 4/4
Sir Deryck Maughan 9 July 2009 4/4
Sir Robert Wilson 28 March 2008 4/4
In addition to the four scheduled meetings, the Committee met on
a quorate basis on one occasion.
Other attendees at Committee meetings:
Regular Attends
Attendee attendee as required
CEO ✓
Head of Human Resources ✓
Company Secretary – Secretary to the
Committee ✓
Appropriate external advisers ✓
Main responsibilities
The main responsibilities of the Committee are set out on page 87.
Work of the Committee during 2011
During 2011, the Committee’s main focus was on the search for
new Non-Executive Directors to refresh the Board.
When recruiting Non-Executive Directors, the Committee considers
the particular skills, knowledge, independence, diversity and
experience that would benefit the Board most significantly for
each appointment.
Broad selection criteria are used which focus on achieving a balance
between the representation of Continental European, UK, US and
Emerging Markets experience, and having individuals with expertise
developed in various sectors and specialities.
The search process focused on the need for candidates who are
current or recently retired CEOs, CFOs, or Audit partners, or who
have other significant financial expertise, and sought candidates
who further increased the diversity of the Board’s composition.102 GSK Annual Report 2011
Governance & Corporate governance continued
remuneration
Professional search agencies were engaged which specialise in the Committee evaluation
recruitment of high calibre Non-Executive Directors. Dossiers of
The Committee considered Dr Long’s evaluation of the Board, and
potential Non-Executive appointees were considered by the
the Committee in particular, and concluded that the Committee
Committee and candidates were shortlisted for interview against
continued to operate effectively. In respect of Dr Long’s specific
objective criteria, after considering their relevant qualifications.
observations, it was agreed that in replacing the Non-Executive
After interviewing several candidates, the Committee was pleased Directors who are due to retire at the 2013 AGM, priority should be
to recommend to the Board Stacey Cartwright and Judy Lewent as given to candidates with global CEO experience and knowledge of,
Non-Executive Directors. They were both appointed to the Board and experience in, Emerging Markets. The Committee also agreed
on 1 April 2011. that in recruiting new Non-Executive Directors, it would be helpful
to plan the composition of the Board over a longer time frame.
The Board considered that their experience of global business and
finance, and their respective knowledge of consumer brands and
the pharmaceutical industry, would bring fresh perspectives to the
Board’s deliberations.
The process of refreshing the Board continues as a number of Board
members approach their nine years of service. In January 2012, it
was announced that James Murdoch would not stand for re-election
at the AGM in 2012 and Sir Crispin Davis, Sir Robert Wilson and
Larry Culp, each of whom will have served as Non-Executive
Directors for nine years by 2013, would not stand for re-election at
the AGM next year. The Committee recommended that
Sir Deryck Maughan should succeed Sir Robert as Senior
Independent Director, Tom de Swaan should succeed Sir Crispin as
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Judy Lewent should
succeed Tom de Swaan as Chair of the Audit & Risk Committee.
In terms of Executive succession planning, the Committee also
recommended the appointment of Emma Walmsley and
Phil Thomson to the CET in May 2011 as President Designate,
Consumer Healthcare Worldwide and Senior Vice President, Global
Communications respectively.
Emma Walmsley joined GSK in May 2010 as President, Consumer
Healthcare Europe. She subsequently assumed the role of
President, Consumer Healthcare Worldwide in October 2011. She
joined GSK from L’Oréal, where she previously held a number of
marketing and general management roles.
Phil Thomson joined Glaxo Wellcome in 1996 and has held senior
positions in media relations and investor relations. He was
appointed to the role of Senior Vice President, Global
Communications in August 2010. He has responsibility for Media
Relations, Investor Relations, Corporate Responsibility, Global
Community Partnerships and Internal, Product and Business
Communications.
To ensure an orderly succession in Global Manufacturing & Supply
(GMS), the Committee recommended the appointment of Roger
Connor, Vice President, Office of the CEO & Corporate Strategy, to
the role of President Designate, GMS, with effect from 1 January
2012. Roger will succeed David Pulman when he retires from GSK
in 2013, and will join the CET in late 2012.
Detailed biographical information for Emma Walmsley and
Phil Thomson is given under ‘Our Corporate Executive Team (CET)’
on pages 80 to 81.103 GSK Annual Report 2011
Corporate Responsibility Committee Report
Main responsibilities
The main responsibilities of the Corporate Responsibility Committee
are set out on page 87.
The Committee has a rolling agenda and receives reports from
members of the CET and senior managers to ensure that progress
on meeting GSK’s Corporate Responsibility (CR) Principles is
reviewed. The Committee annually reviews progress on the
following five CR Principles:
Sir Christopher Gent
• access to medicines;
Corporate Responsibility Committee Chairman
• standards of ethical conduct;
Membership
• research and innovation;
The membership of the Corporate Responsibility Committee (the • employment practices; and
Committee), together with appointment dates and attendance at
• community investment.
meetings, is set out below:
GSK’s other CR Principles are discussed at least once every two
Attendance at years. The Committee also reviews and approves the Corporate
full meetings
Responsibility Report.
Members Committee member since during 2011
Sir Christopher Gent Work of the Committee during 2011
(Chairman from
During 2011, the Committee focused its attention on several issues
1 January 2005) 9 December 2004 4/4
including:
Dr Stephanie Burns 6 December 2007 3/4
James Murdoch 20 May 2009 3/4
GSK’s CR Principles Committee’s area of focus during 2011
Dr Daniel Podolsky 1 July 2006 4/4
Access to medicines Access to, and pricing of, medicines in
Other attendees at Committee meetings may include: middle income and least developed
countries
Regular Attends
Standards of ethical Embedding ethical values in the
Attendee attendee as required
conduct organisation
CEO ✓
General Counsel ✓ Reinforcing values-based decision making
Head of Global Communications ✓ in the business
Head of Corporate Responsibility ✓ Research and innovation Replacement, refinement and reduction
Head of Governance, Ethics & Assurance ✓ in use of animals in research and
Company Secretary – Secretary to the development
Committee ✓ Research integrity and transparency,
Independent external Corporate including medical governance and ethical
Responsibility adviser ✓ standards for human subject research
Employment practices Inclusion and diversity
Independent external Corporate Responsibility adviser
Leading and developing employees
To augment GSK’s engagement with stakeholder opinion, in March
Employee relations, including consultation
2009, Ms Sophia Tickell was appointed as an independent external
arrangements
adviser to the Committee. Ms Tickell is the co-founder and Director
Employee health, safety and wellbeing
of Meteos, from which she directs the Pharma Futures Series,
which aims to align better societal and shareholder value. She also Community investment Pulse volunteering programme
sits on the Expert Review Committee of the Access to Medicines
Caring for the environment Progress on our environmental
Foundation and is a member of the European Healthcare sustainability strategy
Innovation Leadership Network.
Products and customers Adoption of global principles
Ms Tickell attended meetings of the Committee and provided and practices to ensure distinction
independent advice and guidance on corporate and social between the interaction and exchange of
responsibility matters to both the Chairman and CEO. To avoid a scientific or medical information and
product promotional activity
conflict of interest with a new role which she was due to take on,
Ms Tickell decided to retire as an adviser to the Committee in the Disclosure of payments to healthcare
summer of 2011. professionals104 GSK Annual Report 2011
Governance & Corporate governance continued
remuneration
Corporate responsibility is integrated into the management of US law and regulation
GSK’s business. Throughout this report you will read of advances to
ensure that GSK works as efficiently and effectively as possible A number of provisions of US law and regulation apply to GSK
while ensuring that we always act responsibly. because our shares are quoted on the New York Stock Exchange
(NYSE) in the form of ADS.
We publish more information on our approach and performance in
our annual Corporate Responsibility Report. This report can be NYSE rules
found on our website and will be published in March 2012.
In general, the NYSE rules permit the company to follow UK
Committee evaluation corporate governance practices instead of those applied in the US,
provided that we explain any significant variations. This explanation
The Committee considered Dr Long’s evaluation of the Board, and
is contained in our Form 20-F filing, which can be accessed from
the Committee in particular, and concluded that the Committee
the Securities and Exchange Commission’s (SEC) EDGAR database
continued to operate effectively. As part of the Committee’s
or via our website. NYSE rules that came into effect in 2005 require
review of its operation and activities, it was agreed that more time
us to file annual and interim written affirmations concerning the
could be allocated at meetings for discussion around the key CR
Audit & Risk Committee and our statement on significant
subjects, risk areas, hot topics and to strategic thinking on
differences in corporate governance.
emerging areas of concern.
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
Following a number of corporate and accounting scandals in the
USA, Congress passed the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Sarbanes-
Oxley is a wide-ranging piece of legislation concerned largely with
financial reporting and corporate governance.
As recommended by the SEC, GSK has established a Disclosure
Committee. The Committee reports to the CEO, the CFO and to
the Audit & Risk Committee. It is chaired by the Company Secretary
and the members consist of senior managers from finance, legal,
corporate communications and investor relations.
External legal counsel, the external auditors and internal experts are
invited to attend its meetings periodically. It has responsibility for
considering the materiality of information and, on a timely basis,
determining the disclosure of that information. It has responsibility
for the timely filing of reports with the SEC and the formal review
of the Annual Report and Form 20-F. In 2011, the Committee met
14 times.
Sarbanes-Oxley requires that the Annual Report contains a
statement as to whether a member of our Audit & Risk Committee
(ARC) is an audit committee financial expert as defined by
Sarbanes-Oxley. For a summary regarding the Board’s judgement
on this matter, please refer to page 99. Additional disclosure
requirements arise under section 302 and section 404 of Sarbanes-
Oxley in respect of disclosure controls and procedures and internal
control over financial reporting.
Section 302: Corporate responsibility for financial
reports
Sarbanes-Oxley also introduced a requirement for the CEO and the
CFO to complete formal certifications, confirming that:
• t hey have each reviewed the Annual Report and Form 20-F;
• b ased on their knowledge, it contains no material misstatements
or omissions;
• b ased on their knowledge, the financial statements and other
financial information fairly present, in all material respects, the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows as of the
dates, and for the periods, presented in the Annual Report and
Form 20-F;105 GSK Annual Report 2011
• t hey are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure Section 404: Management’s annual report on internal
controls and procedures that ensure that material information is control over financial reporting
made known to them, and have evaluated the effectiveness of
In accordance with the requirements of section 404 of Sarbanes-
these controls and procedures as at the year-end, the results of
Oxley, the following report is provided by management in respect
such evaluation being contained in the Annual Report and
of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting (as
Form 20-F;
defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the US Securities
• t hey are responsible for establishing and maintaining interna l Exchange Act of 1934):
control over financial reporting that provides reasonable
• m anagement is responsible for establishing and maintaining
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
adequate internal control over financial reporting for the Group.
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
Internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
• t hey have disclosed in the Annual Report and Form 20-F any reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
changes in internal controls over financial reporting during the external purposes in accordance with IFRS;
period covered by the Annual Report and Form 20-F that have
• management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness o f
materially affected, or are reasonably likely to affect materially,
internal control over financial reporting based on the framework,
the company’s internal control over financial reporting; and
Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued by the Committee
• t hey have disclosed, based on their most recent evaluation o f of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission;
internal control over financial reporting, to the external auditors
• t here have been no changes in the Group’s internal control ove r
and the ARC, all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses
financial reporting during 2011 that have materially affected, or
in the design or operation of internal controls over financial
are reasonably likely to affect materially, the Group’s internal
reporting which are reasonably likely to affect adversely the
control over financial reporting;
company’s ability to record, process, summarise and report
financial information, and any fraud (regardless of materiality) • m anagement has assessed the effectiveness of internal contro l
involving persons that have a significant role in the company’s over financial reporting, as at 31 December 2011 and its
internal control over financial reporting. conclusion will be filed as part of the Group’s Form 20-F; and
We have carried out an evaluation under the supervision and • P ricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, which has audited the consolidated
with the participation of the Group’s management, including the financial statements of the Group for the year ended
CEO and CFO, of the effectiveness of the design and operation 31 December 2011, has also assessed the effectiveness of the
of the Group’s disclosure controls and procedures as at Group’s internal control over financial reporting under Auditing
31 December 2011. Standard No. 5 of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Their audit report will be filed with the
There are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system of
Group’s Form 20-F.
disclosure controls and procedures, including the possibility of
human error and the circumvention or overriding of the controls
and procedures. Accordingly, even effective disclosure controls and
procedures can only provide reasonable assurance of achieving
their control objectives.
The CEO and CFO expect to complete these certifications and
report their conclusions on the effectiveness of disclosure controls
and procedures on 13 March 2012, following which the certificates
will be filed with the SEC as part of the Group’s Form 20-F.106 GSK Annual Report 2011
Governance &
remuneration Remuneration
Report
Dear Shareholder
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present our Remuneration Report for 2011,
for which we will be seeking your approval at our AGM in May 2012.
Recent changes to executive remuneration
In recent years, the Remuneration Committee has implemented a number of changes
to our executive remuneration, after extensive consultation with, and good support from,
our major shareholders. These changes have included more tailored benchmarking versus
the local market, simplifying and aligning remuneration across the CET and linking reward
from long-term incentive plans more closely with performance against the company’s key
strategic priorities. Although early days, we are encouraged by the increased motivation
and focus amongst the management team against delivery of these priorities. As promised
last year, we have provided a full annual update on performance against the long-term
incentive targets.
Annual bonus structure
During the year, the Committee undertook a review of the annual bonus structure in
place for our executives and concluded that the measures remained sound and should
continue to focus on annual delivery of strong financial performance. Given the change in
Moncef’s role, which now includes overall responsibility for both R&D and Vaccines, we
have amended the measures and weightings of the financial element of his bonus. This is
now based 50% on R&D performance, 25% on Vaccines performance and 25% on Group
profit before interest and tax.
CEO remuneration
The Committee is mindful of its responsibility to pay appropriately, but not excessively, and
we apply a rigorous data driven process to assessing competitive positioning, setting
remuneration and determining performance targets.
During 2011, we assessed the competitiveness of the remuneration of the Executive
Directors and other CET members and were satisfied that in most instances their
remuneration was appropriate. However, we did identify a significant competitiveness gap
for our CEO.
This is a particular concern for the Committee, because Sir Andrew’s strong performance
is widely acknowledged.
On appointment as CEO in 2008, we set Sir Andrew’s remuneration conservatively and
significantly below that of his predecessor, as we set his primary benchmark to a UK
cross-industry comparator group rather than the much higher benchmark of global
pharmaceutical companies. We also took into account that he was a new CEO who
needed to demonstrate performance in his role. We have not increased his remuneration
for over three years.
Since Sir Andrew’s appointment, there has been a continual and marked improvement in the
Group’s performance. Most recently, in 2011, underlying sales and profits have performed
well, and the Group’s increase in TSR of 25% was in the upper quartile of the FTSE 100, of
our UK corporate comparator group and of our global pharmaceutical peer group. This is the
Group’s best TSR performance since the formation of GSK in 2000. GSK’s strategy has
momentum and Sir Andrew’s vision and leadership are fundamental to this performance.107 GSK Annual Report 2011
The Committee believes that the reward level offered to the CEO should now reflect his
achievements to date and has therefore increased the level of his performance related
remuneration by raising his performance share award from 500% to 600% of salary,
within the limit previously approved by shareholders. These performance shares will
continue to vest based on Group performance after three years, but 25% of the shares
vesting from the grant will now have to be retained for a further two years.
We have also increased Sir Andrew’s base salary by 4%, which is in line with the average
salary increase for GSK’s UK employees. These changes will position him more
competitively against his UK peers. It should be noted that, even after these adjustments,
his remuneration will still be in the bottom quartile when compared to GSK’s
pharmaceutical peers.
You will also see that Sir Andrew’s total remuneration achieved in 2011 has increased
significantly from 2010. This directly reflects our pay for performance policy. In 2011, GSK
delivered good underlying financial performance, pipeline progress and strong cash
generation. Together with upper quartile share price performance, this enabled the best
annual total shareholder returns (+25%) since 2000. Sir Andrew deserves both credit and
reward for these. Full details are given in the Report which follows.
Governance
The Committee is very aware of the sensitive environment surrounding executive pay at a
time of real economic challenge. As one of Britain’s largest companies, GSK recognises its
leadership role and is aware of the importance of a balanced approach. As we do every
year, we have discussed our proposals and policies extensively with major shareholders
during our annual meetings in the Autumn and have listened carefully to their feedback.
I believe the following Report reflects this.
During the year, there has been a substantial initiative by the Government to improve
corporate communication on executive pay. While many of these proposals are still at a
formative stage, the following Report attempts to capture the spirit of the Government’s
direction, particularly with regards to simplification, separation of past pay and future
policy and transparency.
This year will be my last year as Chairman of the Committee. Tom de Swaan, who has
been a member of the Committee since May 2009, will succeed me as Chairman with
effect from 1 January 2013. I should like to thank shareholders for their support during
my tenure as Chairman of the Committee and, as always, we welcome all shareholders’
feedback on this Report.
Sir Crispin Davis
Remuneration Committee Chairman
9 March 2012108 GSK Annual Report 2011
Governance & Remuneration report continued
remuneration
Total remuneration for 2011
Value earned
Base salary + Other benefits + Annual bonus + from long-term = Total remuneration
incentive awards
Pay for performance
The total remuneration for 2011 for each of the current Executive Directors is set out in the table below:
Sir Andrew Witty, Simon Dingemans, Dr Moncef Slaoui,
CEO CFO Chairman, R&D
2011 % of 2010 % of 2011 % of 2010 % of 2011 % of 2010 % of
£000 total £000 total £000 total £000 total $000 total $000 total
Salary 1,000 1,000 656 n/a 1,093 953
Other benefits 36 126 157 n/a 302 405
1,036 15% 1,126 31% 813 50% n/a n/a 1,395 28% 1,358 35%
Pay for performance
Annual bonus – including the amount
deferred (see below) 2,000 1,177 827 n/a 1,747 1,434
Value earned from LTI awards:
Performance Share Plan (1) 3,738 1,373 n/a n/a 1,753 1,074
Share Option Plan – – n/a n/a – –
ShareSave 5 – n/a n/a – –
5,743 85% 2,550 69% 827 50% n/a n/a 3,500 72% 2,508 65%
Total remuneration 6,779 3,676 1,640 n/a 4,895 3,866
Number Number Number
% £000 of shares % £000 of shares % $000 of ADS
Deferral of 2011 annual bonus
Amount deferred 35% 700 50% 414 50% 874
Number of shares or ADS purchased 49,575 29,286 19,555
Maximum matching award (2) 49,575 29,286 19,555
Full details of each of the elements of ‘Total remuneration’ above are given on the following pages of this Report.
Fixed pay Details Pay for performance Details
Base salary Pages 112 and 124 Annual bonus Pages 109, 113 and 124
Other benefits Pages 113 and 124 Investment of bonus in Deferred Annual Bonus Plan See table above and pages 114 and 129
Value earned from LTI awards:
Performance Share Plan Pages 109, 114, 126 and 130 to 131
Share Option Plan Pages 109 and 127 to 128
ShareSave Pages 116 and 126 to 128
Notes:
(1) S imon Dingemans was appointed to the Board on 4 January 2011. The performance period for Simon Dingemans’ first award under the Performance Share Plan
ends on 31 December 2013 and as such he is not eligible to receive any remuneration in respect of this plan until 2013 at the earliest.
(2) T he matching award is subject to performance targets. The maximum number of shares or ADS shown for the matching award does not include dividends
reinvested over the performance period.
(3) Details of the pensions accrued to date for each of the Executive Directors are given on pages 132 and 133.109 GSK Annual Report 2011
Pay for performance for 2011
Annual bonus
For 2011, the annual bonus was based on the following performance targets:
Executive Director Financial performance Personal performance
Sir Andrew Witty
75% on Group operating profit 25% on Group profit
Simon Dingemans + Individual objectives
before interest and tax
Dr Moncef Slaoui 75% on R&D performance
Performance against targets
Financial • G roup operating profit and Group profit before interest and tax for the year both exceeded the stretching targets set by
performance the Committee. Performance reflected the delivery of underlying sales growth and continued cost control in the context of the
further roll off of pandemic products, Avandia and Valtrex, together with the impact of price reductions in the USA, Europe and
some Emerging Markets.
• R &D performance targets for the year were exceeded. Data was received for nine of the 15 Phase III assets highlighted at the start of
2011 and sufficient data has been received in house to file four products in 2012. The rate of return on R&D spend is now estimated to
be 12%, versus 11% (at the end of 2009), and 30 new drugs are expected to enter late stage development in the next three years.
Personal • C EO – During 2011, the Group delivered continued underlying sales growth (4% in CER terms compared with 2010), with growth
performance across each of the Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare businesses. Strong cash generation and disciplined allocation
of capital enabled a total of £5.6 billion to be returned to shareholders (dividends of £3.4 billion and shares repurchased of
£2.2 billion), an increase of 75% over 2010. This, together with GSK achieving top quartile share price performance against the
FTSE 100, generated the company’s best annual total shareholder return since the formation of GSK in 2000. Reached agreement in
principle with the US government to resolve several of its most significant Federal government investigations. Made progress in the
orderly succession of several key executive team roles.
• CFO – Established a financial architecture and a new three year planning process to enable business strategy to translate into optimised
shareholder returns. Identified further savings from the ongoing Operational Excellence programme of £600 million and made initial
progress on delivering financial efficiencies. Introduced core measures for performance to enable easier comparison with our peers.
• C hairman, R&D – Exceeded the pipeline development and value targets (as detailed above) and established a new governance
structure for R&D.
Value earned from long-term incentive awards
Performance Share Plan Share Option Plan
The structure of the awards granted to Executives in 2009 and the The Share Option Plan awards granted to the Executives in 2009
performance levels achieved in the three years ended 31 December were split into two elements, with 50% being dependent on
2011 are set out below: performance over the three year period ended 31 December 2011
and 50% on performance over the four year period ending on
Vesting
31 December 2012.
Performance % of % of % of
measures award Performance achieved maximum award
Performance achieved Vesting
Adjusted Adjusted free cash flow for the 100% 40%
free cash three years was £16.5 billion, which The company’s EPS declined on a compound CER basis for the 0%
flow included adjustments for a number three years to 31 December 2011, which was below the
40% of material distorting items, threshold vesting level of growth in RPI plus 3%. None of this
principally legal settlements, part of the award has therefore vested.
favourable exchange rate
movements and special pension The vesting of the remaining 50% will be assessed over the four
contributions. year performance period ending on 31 December 2012.
Relative TSR GSK’s TSR rank position was 6th 30% 9%
over 3 years (median position) in the comparator
30% group of 11 pharmaceutical
companies (GSK and 10 other
companies).
Total vested for 2011 49%
Relative GSK’s TSR rank position was 6th 30% 9%
TSR over 4 (as above). If this performance is
years to 31 30% maintained, the vesting for relative
December TSR for 2012 would be the same as
2012 for 2011.
Potential total vesting for 2009 award 58%
The vesting of the remaining 30% will be assessed over the four
year performance period ending on 31 December 2012.110 GSK Annual Report 2011
Governance & Remuneration report continued
remuneration
Remuneration policy for 2012
The table below summarises how the Committee sets remuneration for the members of the CET (the Executives), the key
elements of their remuneration, including the requirement for them to hold minimum levels of shares in GSK, and the principal
pension arrangements.
Page(s)
How the The Committee reviews the total remuneration of each Executive against that of executives from comparable 112
Committee sets companies, with a focus on local rather than global comparisons. The Committee aims to ensure that total
remuneration remuneration levels are competitive and are set by reference to the median of the appropriate comparator group.
The balance between fixed elements and pay for performance is carefully considered, with overall packages weighted
heavily towards the latter.
Fixed pay
Base salary Salaries are reviewed annually, with data from relevant comparator groups, and are influenced by: 112
• the Executive’s role, experience and performance; and
• the average increases for the broader GSK workforce.
Other benefits • Principally healthcare, car, personal financial advice, life assurance and, where relevant, cash in lieu of a money 113
purchase pension contribution and secondment and travel expenses.
Pay for performance
Safeguards • A ‘clawback’ mechanism has been incorporated into the annual bonus award process and the Committee retains 113
and risk the discretion to reduce the grant or vesting levels of performance awards if appropriate.
management
Annual bonus For 2012, the target and maximum Targets: 113
bonus opportunities for the • The majority of the bonus is based on achievement of challenging financial
Executive Directors are as follows: targets (Group/business unit operating profit and Group profit before
T arget Maximum interest and tax) as agreed by the Board and the Committee.
% of % of
salary salary • Individual performance against pre-determined personal objectives.
• CEO 125 200
• CFO 80 180 • R&D-specific key performance indicators.
• Chairman, R&D 85 200
• Vaccines-specific key performance indicators.
Deferred Annual • Individuals may choose to invest • Awards vest at the end of a three-year performance period based on 114
Bonus Plan up to 50% of any bonus earned four equally weighted performance measures:
(DABP) • Deferred bonuses may be – Business diversification performance*;
matched up to one-for-one – R&D new product performance*;
subject to performance criteria – Adjusted free cash flow*; and
– Relative TSR+.
Performance For 2012, the performance share 114
Share Plan awards for the Executive Directors * 25% vests at threshold, rising to 100% for stretching performance exceeding to
(PSP) are as follows: the set threshold by a specified margin. 116
% of + Against comparator group comprising GSK and 10 other pharmaceutical companies.
salary
• CEO* 600 30% vests at median, with 100% vesting for upper quartile performance.
• CFO 350
• Chairman, R&D 500
* The CEO must retain 25% of any shares
vesting from his 2012 award for two years
following vesting.
Share ownership To align the interests of Executives with shareholders, Executives are required to build up and maintain significant 116
requirements holdings of shares in GSK.
• CEO: 4 x base salary
• Other Executive Directors: 3 x base salary
• Other CET members: 2 x base salary
Pensions
UK Executives • GSK operates a defined contribution plan. UK Executives participating in the defined contribution plan benefit 117
from company contributions of 20% of base salary, plus matched contributions of up to 5% of base salary.
• Certain Executives are members of legacy final salary plans, which have been closed to new entrants since 2001.
US Executives • GSK operates a Cash Balance Pension Plan (US Plan). US Executives participating in the US Plan benefit from 117
contributions of up to 38% of base salary.111 GSK Annual Report 2011
Estimates of total future potential remuneration from 2012 remuneration packages
The tables below provide estimates of the potential total future remuneration for each of our Executive Directors in respect of the
remuneration opportunity granted to them in 2012. A range of potential outcomes is provided for each Executive Director.
Sir Andrew Witty, CEO
Other Total Annual Total pay for
Salary benefits fixed pay bonus DABP PSP performance Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Below threshold 1,033 36 1,069 – – – – 1,069
Threshold 1,033 36 1,069 416 55 1,638 2,109 3,178
Maximum 1,033 36 1,069 2,080 1,040 6,240 9,360 10,429
Simon Dingemans, CFO
Other Total Annual Total pay for
Salary benefits fixed pay bonus DABP PSP performance Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Below threshold 682 162 844 – – – – 844
Threshold 682 162 844 176 23 631 830 1,674
Maximum 682 162 844 1,236 618 2,402 4,256 5,100
Dr Moncef Slaoui, Chairman, R&D
Other Total Annual Total pay for
Salary benefits fixed pay bonus DABP PSP performance Total
$000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000
Below threshold 1,153 302 1,455 – – – – 1,455
Threshold 1,153 302 1,455 315 41 1,521 1,877 3,332
Maximum 1,153 302 1,455 2,318 1,159 5,795 9,272 10,727
The remuneration granted in 2012 will be recorded as follows:
Earned or awarded Recorded as remuneration
in respect of in Annual Report for
Salary, other benefits and annual bonus 2012 2012
DABP (2012 bonus will be deferred in 2013) 2013–2015 2015
PSP 2012–2014 2014
The assumptions underlying each scenario are outlined below:
All scenarios:
• O ther benefits have been estimated based upon actual amounts received in respect of 2011.
• E ach Executive Director is assumed to defer 50% of his 2012 annual bonus (the maximum permitted amount) and the matching awar d
shown under DABP reflects this. The amount shown under DABP reflects the matching award only (the amount of bonus deferred
by the individual is included under annual bonus).
• T he amounts shown above under DABP and PSP are based on the bonus amounts for 2012 and the relevant multiples of 2012 sala ry
respectively. They do not include amounts in respect of dividends reinvested over the performance periods. The actual amounts
recorded as remuneration from the DABP and PSP in 2015 and 2014 respectively will be calculated using the share or ADS prices on
the vesting dates and will include amounts in respect of related dividends reinvested over the relevant performance periods.
• T he DABP and PSP are subject to performance measures over the three year periods 2013 to 2015 and 2012 to 2014 respectively.
Below threshold:
• N one of the pay for performance would be payable.
Threshold:
• T he minimum levels of pay for performance would be payable. It is assumed that the performance of each Executive Director would
result in an individual performance multiplier of 100% and therefore no increase to the financial performance element of the bonus.
• T he threshold levels for the payment of the annual bonus and the vesting of the awards under the DABP and PSP are discussed in det ail
on page 115.
Maximum:
• I t is assumed that the annual bonus is payable at the maximum percentages set out on page 110 and that the awards under the
DABP and PSP vest in full.112 GSK Annual Report 2011
Governance & Remuneration report continued
remuneration
How the Committee sets remuneration The Committee’s review of the CEO’s proposed remuneration for
2012 identified a competitiveness gap, which is highlighted in the
The Committee gives consideration to remuneration policy and
diagram below. To address this, the Committee’s preference was
levels for the wider employee population of the Group, as well as
to increase the level of pay for performance within the CEO’s
ensuring that remuneration is consistent with industry and broader
remuneration package and accordingly, the Committee raised his
market norms. The Committee sets total remuneration with
PSP award from 500% to 600% of his salary for 2012.
reference to the median level of each Executive’s pay comparator
group.
Summary of total package competitive positioning for the CEO
When benchmarking total remuneration, the following principal
elements are considered: Total remuneration based on benchmarking criteria (£m)
10
• Base salary.
• A nnual bonus – for comparison purposes it is assumed that each
company achieves target performance. 8
• D ABP and PSP awards – it is assumed that these awards vest a t
50% of the maximum amount. For the DABP, it is assumed that
6
the Executive chooses to defer the maximum 50% of his or her
annual bonus.
The Committee also considers pension arrangements. 4
A significant proportion of an Executive’s total remuneration UK cross-industry Global pharmaceutical European cross-in dustry
group group group
package is based on pay for performance, with a particular
Lower quartile to median Median to upper quartile
emphasis on long-term share-based incentives to closely align
Previous position New position
Executives’ interests with those of shareholders. The balance
between the fixed pay and pay for performance elements of
remuneration varies depending on performance. Fixed pay
The Committee uses two primary pay comparator groups: Base salary
Base salaries are set by reference to the relevant comparator
UK cross-industry Global pharmaceutical
comparator group comparator group group at a level considered appropriate to secure and retain
Anglo American France Sanofi the talent needed to deliver GSK’s strategic priorities. Salary
AstraZeneca Switzerland Novartis levels are reviewed annually and are influenced by the
Barclays Roche Holdings
wider pay environment and the Executive’s role, experience
BG Group UK AstraZeneca
and performance.
BHP Billiton USA Abbott Laboratories
BP Amgen*
The Committee considers the prevailing economic conditions,
British American Tobacco Bristol-Myers Squibb
Diageo Eli Lilly the market competitiveness of each Executive’s package and the
HSBC Johnson & Johnson positioning and relativities of pay across the broader GSK workforce.
Reckitt Benckiser Merck
For 2012, the average salary increases for employees other than
Rio Tinto Pfizer
Royal Dutch Shell Executive Directors will be approximately 4% in the UK and
Standard Chartered approximately 3% in the USA.
Tesco
The Committee has decided to give the Executive Directors salary
Unilever
Vodafone increases in line with the average salary increases for GSK
employees in the UK and the USA. Sir Andrew Witty and
* Amgen is included for remuneration benchmarking, but is not included in the
Simon Dingemans each received a base salary increase of 4%
TSR comparator group.
and Dr Moncef Slaoui 3%.
The primary comparator group for each of the Executive Directors
is shown in the table below: The table below sets out the base salaries of the Executive Directors
over the last three years (or since appointment to the Board) and
Primary comparator group the salaries for 2012. Salary increases typically take effect in the first
UK Global quarter of each year.
Director cross-industry pharmaceutical
Sir Andrew Witty, CEO ✓ Base salary %
Simon Dingemans, CFO ✓ change
2009 2010 2011 2012 2012
Dr Moncef Slaoui, Chairman, R&D ✓
Sir Andrew Witty, £1,000,000 £1,000,000 £1,000,000 £1,040,000 4%
When reviewing the CEO’s remuneration for 2012, which is CEO
primarily set with reference to the UK cross-industry comparator Simon Dingemans, n/a n/a £660,000 £686,400 4%
CFO*
group, the Committee also referenced pay for a group of 23
Dr Moncef Slaoui, $875,000 $975,000 $1,125,000 $1,159,000 3%
European companies selected based on their size and complexity. Chairman, R&D
* S imon Dingemans joined the Board on 4 January 2011.113 GSK Annual Report 2011
Other benefits For the financial measures, the bonus threshold is 90% of target,
with the maximum being payable for achievement of 110% of
The Executives receive other benefits, including healthcare, car,
target. The bonus threshold of 90% reflects the stretching nature
personal financial advice, life assurance and matching shares
of the bonus targets.
under the ShareReward Plan.
The measures for each Executive Director are set out below:
Simon Dingemans is not accumulating benefits in any of GSK’s
pension plans and he receives cash in lieu of a money purchase Personal
pension contribution. Executive Director Financial performance performance
Sir Andrew Witty 75% on Group
Dr Moncef Slaoui has been seconded to the UK for a two year
period from 1 November 2010 to enable him to be closer to the Simon Dingemans operating profit 25% on
Group profit + Individual
Vaccines business as he assumes operational responsibility for Dr Moncef Slaoui* 50% on R&D
before interest objectives
that part of the Group, and as such he receives appropriate performance
and tax
secondment and travel expenses. 25% on Vaccines
performance
The cash value of the benefits received by the Executive Directors
in 2011 is shown on page 124. * D uring 2011, Dr Moncef Slaoui assumed responsibility for the Group’s
Vaccines business. The financial element of his bonus has therefore been
Pay for performance
adjusted accordingly.
Safeguards and risk management CEO
The Committee believes in payment for performance. Individual performance objectives for Sir Andrew Witty are set
Specifically, the Committee does not want to reward failure by the Board in January each year. The Board focuses on the
and views it as important that incentive payouts are only strategic priorities that have been developed for the company,
made in circumstances when performance outcomes reflect which are set out on page 6. For reasons of commercial sensitivity,
genuine achievements against the original targets. his specific objectives are kept confidential. Following the end of
the financial year, the Board reviews his performance generally and
Given the nature of GSK’s business and the increased focus on risk
against the set objectives to determine the appropriate bonus
within the Group, the Committee has taken a number of steps to
payable for his performance.
ensure that our performance related pay underpins effective risk
management: Chairman, R&D
• T he Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee is a member of the Bonus measures for R&D employees, including Dr Moncef Slaoui,
Committee and provides input on the Audit & Risk Committee’s are linked to pipeline performance. A robust governance structure
review of the Group’s performance and oversight on any risk has been established to ensure that the bonus payable fairly reflects
factors relevant to remuneration decisions. R&D productivity and performance as well as achievement of
• T he Committee reviews the ongoing financial impact of any prio r profit targets. Performance and targets are reviewed by the R&D
year activities and the role of individual Executives in such Bonus Compensation Review Committee, which includes
activities. Where there has been continuity of Executive Sir Andrew Witty and the company’s two designated scientific
responsibility between initiation of an adverse event and its expert Non-Executive Directors, Professor Sir Roy Anderson and
emergence as a problem, the adverse event should be taken into Dr Daniel Podolsky. An equivalently robust process is being
account in assessing pay for performance in the year the problem implemented to review Vaccines’ performance measures.
is identified and for future periods. The Committee may make Other Executives
appropriate adjustments to individual annual bonus amounts or
For the other Executives, the CEO sets their individual objectives in
grant and vesting levels of LTI awards to reflect those
line with company strategy, and makes recommendations to the
circumstances (the ‘clawback’ mechanism).
Committee regarding their performance against those objectives at
• T here are also further safeguards relating to each of the
the end of the year. Those recommendations are then considered by
business-specific performance measures under the long-term
the Committee before it determines the level of bonuses payable.
incentive plans which are set out in detail on page 114.
For 2012, the on-target and maximum bonuses for the Executive
• L ong-term incentive awards for good leavers will normally vest a t
Directors are given in the table below.
the end of the original vesting period, rather than in the year of
departure. This ensures continued alignment with shareholders’ On-target bonus as Maximum as a %
interests following cessation of employment. a % of base salary of base salary
Sir Andrew Witty, CEO 125% 200%
Annual bonus Simon Dingemans, CFO 80% 180%
Dr Moncef Slaoui, Chairman, R&D 85% 200%
Annual bonus is designed to drive the achievement of GSK’s
annual financial and strategic business targets and delivery The table below sets out the bonuses earned by the Executive
of personal objectives. Directors over the last three years, or since appointment.
The majority of the annual bonus opportunity is based on a formal 2009 2010 2011
review of performance against stretching financial targets. This 000 000 000
Sir Andrew Witty £2,000 £1,177 £2,000
outcome is then adjusted to reflect individual performance by
Simon Dingemans* n/a n/a £827
applying an individual performance multiplier.
Dr Moncef Slaoui $1,439 $1,434 $1,747
* S imon Dingemans was appointed to the Board on 4 January 2011.114 GSK Annual Report 2011
Governance & Remuneration report continued
remuneration
Long-term incentive plans Performance measures
Long-term incentives take the form of a maximum number of The focus of the Committee has been to improve the
shares (on award). The number of shares received by an Executive alignment of Executive remuneration arrangements with
depends on performance over the performance period. our key strategic priorities.
To provide a closer link between shareholder returns and payments After consultation with shareholders, from 2011, DABP and PSP
to the Executives, notional dividends are reinvested and paid out awards made to Executives comprised two business-specific
in proportion to the shares earned. performance measures on business diversification performance
and R&D new product performance, together with adjusted free
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan
cash flow and relative TSR.
The Deferred Annual Bonus Plan encourages long-term
The Board recognises the possibility that the Company’s goals
shareholding, discourages excessive risk taking and helps
may evolve over time. Therefore the Committee intends to review
focus on GSK’s key strategic priorities.
the performance measures periodically to ensure that they
Up to 50% of any annual bonus earned may be deferred into remain appropriate.
shares, or ADS where appropriate, for three years. The company
Details of the performance measures, targets and the performance
will match shares or ADS up to one-for-one depending on the
thresholds for the 2012 long-term incentive awards are given in
company’s performance against the measures outlined on page
the table set out on page 115.
115 during the three-year performance period.
Safeguards on vesting
The levels of participation for the last three years for the Executive
Directors are shown in the table below, together with the In addition to setting robust targets, the Committee has also
maximum matching awards granted in 2012 in respect of the implemented a number of safeguards to ensure that targets are
deferrals of the 2011 bonuses. These matching awards may vest in met in a sustainable way and that any performance outcome
2015, subject to continued employment and achievement of the reflects genuine achievement against the original targets and
performance measures. therefore represents the delivery of value for shareholders.
2012 For each performance measure, the impact of any acquisition or
% of total bonus deferred Matching divestment will be quantified and adjusted for after the event.
Executive Director 2009 2010 2011 award
Any major adjustment in the calculation of performance measures
Sir Andrew Witty 15% 32% 35% 49,575 shares
will be disclosed to shareholders on vesting.
Simon Dingemans n/a n/a 50% 29,286 shares
Dr Moncef Slaoui n/a 50% 50% 19,555 ADS The table below sets out the principal safeguards for the
performance measures.
Performance Share Plan
Performance measure Safeguards on vesting
The Performance Share Plan ensures focus on the delivery
Business diversification • I nclude the impact of revenue from
of GSK’s strategic priorities and long-term shareholder
performance opportunistic events, e.g. pandemics, unless
returns relative to other pharmaceutical companies. the Committee considers that this did not
add to shareholder value and provided that
Under the Performance Share Plan, awards are made which vest
underlying performance was sufficiently
depending on the company’s performance over a three year
positive.
performance period against the measures outlined below.
• A djust for major distorting events.
There is a limit of six times base salary on the maximum initial value • D espite reaching target, vesting will normally
of performance shares that may be granted to an individual in any be reduced if above market growth has not
been achieved.
one year.
R&D new product • V esting may be reduced if insufficient progress
The table below shows award levels in February 2010 and 2011
performance has been made during the period towards
and March 2012 for each Executive Director in line with that policy:
GSK’s target of a return on R&D investment
of 14%.
2010 2011 2012
Award level Award level Award level • I nclude the impact of revenue from
as % of as % of as % of 2012 opportunistic events, e.g. pandemics, unless
base salary base salary base salary Award the Committee considers that this did not
Sir Andrew Witty, 500% 500% 600% 441,926 add to shareholder value and provided that
CEO shares underlying performance was sufficiently
positive.
Simon Dingemans, n/a 350% 350% 170,141
CFO shares Adjusted free cash flow • A djust for materially distorting items, which
may include exchange rate movements, major
Dr Moncef Slaoui, 500% 500% 500% 129,700 legal and taxation settlements and special
Chairman, R&D ADS pension contributions.115 GSK Annual Report 2011
2012 performance targets
Inevitably, measures linked directly to strategy are commercially sensitive. In particular, the Committee does not consider it appropriate to
disclose the targets for business diversification performance and R&D new product performance at grant, as it may result in competitive
harm. However, the targets will be disclosed fully in the 2014 Remuneration Report at the end of the performance period, together with
details of the extent to which they have been met. The Committee has also undertaken to provide updates on achievements to date
against the targets during the performance period. The 2012 performance targets are set out in the table below.
% of
Long-term incentive measures for 2012 awards award Vesting schedule for 2012 awards
Business diversification performance 25%
Incentivises growth of a global, diversified business
Designed to focus on turnover in our major growth areas:
Vaccines; Consumer Healthcare; Emerging Markets, Asia Pacific Proportion of
and Japan Pharmaceuticals businesses (excluding Vaccines and award
Dermatology); and our Dermatology businesses. Achievement available
Below threshold 0%
Aggregate revenue target for four business divisions over Threshold 25%
three-year performance period should reflect strong growth Maximum 100%
against previous periods and above market growth.
R&D new product performance 25%
Maximum
Recognises importance of R&D to future business growth expressed as %
Measure of threshold
Revenue target based on New Product Sales to incentivise better
Business diversification 114%
R&D performance. New Products are defined as products launched
performance
in the performance period and the two preceding years. Therefore,
for the 2012-14 performance period, products launched in the R&D new product 122%
years 2010-14 will be included in the measurement. performance
Aggregate three-year revenue target for 2012 awards for New
Product Sales should reflect growth on historic performance.
Adjusted free cash flow 25% Three year
adjusted free
Recognises importance of effective working capital and cash flow targets % vesting
cash management Below threshold 0%
Threshold £17.30 billion 25%
£17.84 billion 50%
£19.62 billion 75%
Maximum £20.52 billion 100%
Relative TSR 25% Proportion vesting
100%
Focuses on delivery of value to shareholders 100%
Relative TSR using a comparator group comprising GSK and 75% 80%
10 other global pharmaceutical companies.
Relative TSR is measured over three years, using a 50% 55%
twelve-month averaging period. TSR is measured in local
currency.
25% 30%
0%
11 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
TSR rank position Median Upper quartile
performance performance116 GSK Annual Report 2011
Governance & Remuneration report continued
remuneration
Historical vesting for GSK’s LTIs Share ownership requirements
The following table shows the vesting levels of GSK’s performance To align the interests of Executives with those of
share and share option awards to Executives since 2004. A TSR shareholders, Executives are required to build up and
vesting percentage of 0% indicates that GSK’s relative TSR maintain significant holdings of shares in GSK over time.
performance was below the median of the comparator group for
Current share ownership requirements (SOR) are set out in the
that performance period.
table below:
Share Option
Performance Share Plan Plan
Share ownership requirement
Vesting
under CEO 4 x base salary
adjusted Other Executive Directors 3 x base salary
Vesting free Total Vesting
Performance under TSR cash flow vesting under EPS Other CET members 2 x base salary
period measure %measure % % measure %
Shareholdings for the purpose of SOR as at 9 March 2012 and
2004 2005 – 2007 38.5 n/a 38.5 100
achievement of SOR, based upon an average share price for the
2006 2006 – 2008 0 n/a 0 50.7
90 working days preceding that date, were:
2007 2007 – 2009 35 n/a 35 0
2008 2008 – 2010 35 n/a 35 0
Holding of Ordinary shares
2009* 2009 – 2011 9 40 49 0 for SOR purposes as at
31 December 9 March Increase in Achievement
* T he award made in 2009 included 30% in respect of relative TSR and 40% 2010 2012shareholding % of SOR%
in respect of adjusted free cash flow, both with a three year performance Sir Andrew Witty 150,414 434,924 189 148
period. The remaining 30% was in respect of relative TSR over a four year
Simon Dingemans – 69,510 n/a 48
performance period and this will not be assessed until next year.
Dr Moncef Slaoui 107,085 281,157 163 180
Other all-employee share plans
Executives are required to continue to satisfy these shareholding
The Executives participate in various all-employee share plans in requirements for a minimum of twelve months following retirement
either the UK or the USA, including ShareReward and ShareSave. from the company.
The ShareReward Plan is a UK HM Revenue & Customs approved Pensions
plan open to all UK employees on the same terms. Participants
Pensions provide an important tool for creating a long-term
contribute up to £125 a month from their gross salaries to purchase
culture and loyalty.
GSK shares and the company matches the number of GSK shares
bought each month under this arrangement. Sir Andrew Witty and The Executives participate in the Group’s senior executive pension
Simon Dingemans each contribute £125 a month to buy shares plans. The pension arrangements are structured in accordance with
under the ShareReward Plan. the plans operated for Executives in the country in which they are
likely to retire. Details of individual arrangements for the Executive
The ShareSave plan is a UK HM Revenue & Customs approved plan
Directors are set out on pages 132 and 133.
open to all UK employees. Participants may save up to £250 a
month from their net salaries for a fixed term of three years and at New Executives will be eligible to participate in either a defined
the end of the savings period they have the option to buy GSK contribution scheme in the UK (depending on personal
shares at a discount of up to 20% of the market price set at the circumstances against relevant tax restrictions) or a cash balance
launch of each savings contract. pension plan in the USA.
Dilution limits Existing obligations under legacy defined benefit schemes in the
UK will continue to be honoured.
All awards are made under plans which incorporate dilution limits
consistent with the guidelines provided by the Association of British
Insurers. Current estimated dilution from existing awards made
over the last 10 years is set out in the table below:
% of issued share capital
ABI dilution At 31 December At 31 December
Share plans limit 2010 2011
All GSK employee share plans 10% 4.87% 3.96%
Executive share plans only 5% 4.50% 3.58%117 GSK Annual Report 2011
UK pension arrangements
The company currently operates a defined contribution plan and legacy final salary plans, which are closed to new entrants.
Executives participating in the defined contribution plan receive a company contribution of 20% of base salary. They will also have the
opportunity to receive up to a further 5% in matched contributions in line with the policy for all other members of the pension plan.
During 2010, the UK Government announced a series of changes to the taxation of pensions which continue to impact the pensions
of employees within GSK. The taxation changes will have significant negative consequences and the effectiveness of pensions will be
much reduced.
Pensions have been, and continue to be, an important tool for creating a long-term culture and promoting employee retention. Therefore,
the Committee decided that existing pension promises would be honoured and employees with pensions impacted by the changes would
have the opportunity for their pension above the new limit to be delivered via GSK’s existing unfunded scheme.
The legacy final salary plans provide for up to two-thirds of final salary at age 60. For employees subject to the cap, benefits in excess of
the cap are currently provided through unfunded arrangements. Under the legacy final salary plans, actuarial reduction factors apply
where a participant leaves employment of his or her own accord before the age of 60.
US pension arrangements
In the USA, GSK operates a US Cash Balance Plan, which provides for an annual contribution and interest on the sum accumulated in the
cash balance plan, but with no contractual promise to provide specific levels of retirement income. The plan incorporates an Executive
Pension Credit for senior US executives. Contribution rates under the plan range from 15% to 38% of base salary depending on grade.
All current senior US executives are eligible for the Executive Pension Credit.
For capped employees in the USA, benefits above the cap are provided through an unfunded non-qualified plan.
Update on performance of ongoing awards
The Committee undertook to provide an update on performance for outstanding LTI awards. It should be noted that
the actual vesting levels will only be determined based on performance over the full three and four year performance
periods. The interim positions provided below should only be regarded as an indication of how management has
performed to date and should not be regarded as predictions of the final vesting levels.
2010 awards with performance periods to 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2013
The Committee reviewed the performance criteria of the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan and Performance Share Plan awards granted to the
Executive Directors in 2010. The performance achieved in the two years from 1 January 2010 to 31 December 2011 was as follows (the
2010 DABP award is subject only to the performance of relative TSR over three years):
Estimate of likely vesting based
on performance to date
% of
% of maximum % of total
Performance measures award Performance achieved to date vesting award
Adjusted free cash flow 40% The target for the three year period to 31 December 2012
is £17.3 billion for threshold vesting and £20.5 billion for
maximum vesting.
Based on the performance measure, adjusted free cash
flow for the two year period to 31 December 2011 was 73% 29%
£12.6 billion.
Relative TSR over 3 years 30% GSK’s TSR rank position was 5th for the two year period 55% 16.5%
to 31 December 2011 in the pharmaceutical comparator
Relative TSR over 4 years 30% group of GSK and 10 other companies 55% 16.5%
Potential total vesting for 2010 PSP award 62%
The full vesting schedules for each of the performance criteria are given on pages 129 and 131 of this report.
If the above levels of performance under each measure are maintained until the ends of the performance periods on 31 December 2012
and 2013, vesting of the 2010 awards would be as shown. However, performance is only measured at the ends of the performance
periods and performance to date is not necessarily an indication of the final vesting level.118 GSK Annual Report 2011
Governance & Remuneration report continued
remuneration
2011 awards with a performance period to 31 December 2013
The Committee reviewed the performance of the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan and Performance Share Plan awards granted to the
Executive Directors in 2011. The performance achieved in the year to 31 December 2011 was as follows:
Estimate of likely vesting
based on performance
to date
% of
Performance % of maximum % of total
measures award Performance achieved to date vesting award
Business 25% Vaccines
diversification The lack of flu pandemic vaccine sales in the year resulted in a decline in reported vaccines
performance sales of 19% to £3,497 million (flu pandemic vaccine sales were £18 million in the year,
compared with £1,192 million in 2010). Cervarix sales more than doubled to £506 million,
primarily reflecting the national HPV vaccination programme in Japan, which started at the
end of 2010. Synflorix grew 57% to £350 million in 2011, reflecting continued growth
related to tenders in Emerging Markets. The strong reported growth of Rotarix (up 31%
to £300 million) primarily reflected the impact of the product being off the market during
part of 2010. Excluding pandemic vaccines sales, CER growth was 11%. Estimated market
growth, excluding pandemic vaccines sales, was 9%.
Consumer Healthcare
Consumer Healthcare sales grew 5% in the year to £5,195 million. Sales in the USA and
Europe declined slightly, largely as a result of reductions in sales of alli, but these declines
were more than offset by strong growth in the Rest of the World. Oral healthcare and
Nutritional healthcare sales grew strongly, but Over-the-counter sales were flat. Estimated
market growth (for markets where GSK competes) was 4%.
Emerging Markets, Asia Pacific and Japan (excluding Vaccines and Dermatology)
The Emerging Markets, Asia Pacific and Japan Pharmaceuticals businesses (excluding
Vaccines and Dermatology) reported combined sales of £5,051 million in the year,
representing growth of 8% compared with 2010. In all three regions, Respiratory products
provided strong growth, supported by Anti-bacterial products in Emerging Markets and
Avodart and Lamictal in Japan. Estimated market growth was 10%.
Dermatology
Dermatology sales grew 1% in the year to £1,087 million, as growth in Emerging Markets,
which is benefiting from ongoing launches of Stiefel products in new markets, offset the
impact of price cuts in Europe and generic competition to Evoclin in the USA. Reported
growth in the full year benefited from the addition of sales from businesses acquired in
late 2010 and early 2011, but this was offset by the effect of the disposal of Zovirax in
North America in the first quarter of 2011. Estimated market growth (for markets where
GSK competes) was 6%. 55% 14%
R&D new 25% New product sales
product Sales of products launched since 2009 totalled £985 million in the year and grew
performance 60%. The largest product in this group was Synflorix (£350 million). The return on R&D
investment has increased from approximately 11% (end of 2009) to 12% (to end of 2011). 30% 7%
Adjusted free 25% For the 2011 award, the aggregate three-year adjusted free cash flow target for threshold
cash flow vesting is £16.15 billion and £19.15 billion for maximum vesting.
Based on the performance measure, adjusted free cash flow for the year was £5.9 billion. 100% 25%
Relative TSR 25% For the period 1 January to 31 December 2011, the company’s TSR was ranked 3rd in the
pharmaceutical comparator group of GSK and 10 other companies. 100% 25%
Potential total vesting for 2011 award 71%
The vesting schedules for each of the performance criteria are given on pages 129 and 131 of this report.
If the above levels of performance under each measure are maintained until the end of the performance period on 31 December
2013, vesting of the 2011 awards would be as shown. However, performance is only measured at the end of the three year period
and performance to date is not necessarily an indication of the final vesting level.
The Committee, having reviewed performance for the year, remains of the view that the targets for the 2011 awards under both
new measures remain suitably robust and stretching. The actual targets, together with details of the extent to which they have been
met, will be disclosed in full at the time of vesting.119 GSK Annual Report 2011
The Remuneration Committee Committee meetings usually begin with a closed session,
during which only members of the Committee, the Company
Role of the Committee Secretary and the external adviser are present. Other individuals
may also be invited to attend Committee meetings during the year.
The role of the Committee is to set the company’s remuneration
Executives and other Committee attendees are not involved in
policy so that GSK is able to recruit, retain and motivate its
any decisions, and are not present at any discussions, regarding
Executives. The policy is regularly reviewed to ensure that it is
their own remuneration.
consistent with the company’s scale and scope of operations,
supports the business strategy and growth plans and helps drive Other attendees at Committee meetings include:
the creation of shareholder value.
Regular Attends
Terms of reference Attendee attendee as required
CEO ✓
The Committee’s full terms of reference are available on the CFO ✓
company’s website. The terms of reference, which are reviewed Head of Human Resources ✓
as a minimum on an annual basis, were last revised in December Head of Reward ✓
2011 in the light of best practice and corporate governance
Company Secretary – Secretary to the
developments. Committee ✓
Governance Committee Adviser – Deloitte LLP ✓
The Board considers all of the members of the Committee to be Adviser to the Committee
independent Non-Executive Directors, in accordance with the UK
The Committee has access to external advice as required. Deloitte
Corporate Governance Code, with the exception of Sir Christopher
LLP (Deloitte) has been appointed by the Committee to provide it
Gent, Chairman of the company, who was independent on
with independent advice on executive remuneration. During the
appointment.
year, Deloitte provided independent commentary on matters under
The Committee met six times during 2011, with each member consideration by the Committee and updates on best practice,
attending as follows: legislative requirements and market practice.
Attendance Deloitte also provided other consulting, tax and assurance services
Committee at full to GSK during the year, but did not provide advice on executive
member meetings
remuneration matters other than for the Committee.
Members since during 2011
Sir Crispin Davis The Committee conducted a formal review of Deloitte’s
(Chairman from 20 May 2009) 1 July 2003 6/6 performance in July 2011 against an established set of criteria that
Larry Culp 1 January 2004 6/6 enabled a full consideration of the Committee’s needs.
Sir Christopher Gent 1 January 2007 6/6
Deloitte is a member of the Remuneration Consultants’ Group and,
James Murdoch* 1 October 2009 5/6
as such, voluntarily operates under the code of conduct in relation to
Tom de Swaan*+ 20 May 2009 5/6
executive remuneration consulting in the UK. The code of conduct
* J ames Murdoch and Tom de Swaan were each unable to attend, one can be found at www.remunerationconsultantsgroup.com.
meeting for personal reasons. For the meetings they were unable to
attend, they reviewed the papers and provided their views on the matters Towers Watson and Pay Governance provided additional market
under consideration to the Committee Chairman in advance. data to the Committee.
+ T om de Swaan is also the Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee. Commitment to shareholders
The Committee engages in regular dialogue with shareholders and
In addition to the six scheduled meetings, the Committee also met
holds annual meetings with GSK’s largest investors to discuss and
on a quorate basis on two occasions, principally to approve the
take feedback on its remuneration policy and governance matters.
formal grant and, based on performance, the vesting of long-term
In particular, the Committee discusses any significant changes to
incentive awards in accordance with GSK’s remuneration policy.
the policy or the measures used to assess performance.
The annual meetings were held in November 2011. Sir Crispin
Davis, Committee Chairman, shared progress on remuneration
matters in the last 12 months and proposals for 2012. Sir
Christopher Gent, Chairman, updated attendees on corporate
governance developments.120 GSK Annual Report 2011
Governance & Remuneration report continued
remuneration
Principal activities and matters addressed during 2011
The Committee’s principal activities and matters addressed during 2011 are set out below:
Remuneration
Items specific to:
Month Overall Annual bonus LTIs Governance and other matters
January Approve Executives’ 2011 Review and approve Review LTI measures and Review shareholder voting
remuneration, including Executives’ 2010 targets for 2011 policy guidelines on
salaries of CEO, CFO and bonuses remuneration
Chairman, R&D Set CEO 2011 bonus Review draft Remuneration
objectives Report
Overview of bonuses Annual Committee
for employees below CET evaluation results 2010
February Review LTI performance Review feedback
targets and outcomes and from shareholders on
approve 2008 LTI award remuneration policy
vesting Approve Remuneration
Set 2011-2013 LTI award Report
targets and grant 2011 LTI
awards to Executives and
below
Approve Deferred Annual
Bonus Plan elections and
matching awards
March Review of pay comparators Initiate review of annual Initiate review of currency Review shareholder voting
Strategic overview of wider bonus plan of calculation for TSR policy guidelines on
remuneration environment remuneration
July Approve remuneration for Complete review of Complete review of TSR Review of Committee
new CET appointees annual bonus plan currency of calculation adviser
Review of general market Grant interim 2011 LTI Review of voting outcomes
developments awards (below Executives) on 2010 Remuneration
Initiate review of CEO Report and other AGM
remuneration feedback
October Agree 2012 salary review Review of 2011 bonus Review of LTI performance Review of UK Government
process for Executives approval process for reporting to meet remuneration consultations
Review of CEO remuneration Executives commitments to
proposals shareholders
TSR currency update
November Annual meetings with investors
December Review Executives’ Review proposed 2012 Consider feedback from
remuneration market data annual bonus targets annual meetings with
and competitiveness investors
Annual Committee
evaluation results 2011121 GSK Annual Report 2011
Executive Director terms and conditions The following table sets out the details of the Executive Directors’
service contracts:
Executive Director contracts
Current Directors Date of contract Effective date Expiry date
The policy set out below provides the framework for contracts for Sir Andrew Witty* 18 June 2008 22 May 2008 31 August 2024
Executive Directors. Simon Dingemans 8 September 2010 4 January 2011 30 April 2028
Dr Moncef Slaoui** 21 December 2010 21 December 2010 1 August 2019
Policy * S ir Andrew Witty’s contract was renewed in June 2008 following his
appointment as CEO, and was amended on 4 February 2010 to remove the
Notice period on 12 calendar months entitlement to bonus as part of his severance terms.
termination by
** D r Moncef Slaoui’s previous contract dated 16 May 2008 was replaced with
employing company
a new contract on 21 December 2010 to reflect the changes to his severance
or Executive terms outlined above.
Termination payment 1 x annual salary No termination payments will be made in respect of any part of a
payable on termination by the company notice period extending beyond the contract expiry date.
Vesting of LTIs Rules of relevant incentive plan, as Other entitlements
approved by shareholders
In addition to the contractual provisions outlined above, in the
Pension Based on existing arrangements and event that Dr Moncef Slaoui’s service agreement is terminated by
terms of relevant pension plan his employing company, the following will apply:
Non-compete clause 12 months from termination • i n the case of outstanding awards due under the
notice date*
GlaxoSmithKline Annual Investment Plan (which was closed to
* T he ability to impose a 12-month non-compete period (and a non-solicitation new deferrals with effect from the first quarter of 2006),
restriction) on an Executive is considered important by the company to have provided that his agreement is terminated other than for cause,
the ability to protect the Group’s intellectual property and staff. In light of Dr Moncef Slaoui must exercise any Bonus Investment Rights
this, the Committee believes that it would not be appropriate to provide for within six months of termination to receive any deferred
mitigation in the contracts. amounts, and any income and gains; and
The contracts for new Executives will not normally include a bonus • i n line with the policy applicable to US senior executives ,
element in any termination payment. Dr Moncef Slaoui may become eligible, at a future date, to
receive continuing medical and dental insurance after retirement.
The terms of the contracts seek to balance commercial imperatives
and best practice. Where the company considers it important that Outside appointments for Executives
an individual does not work elsewhere during his or her notice
The Board encourages Executives to hold one external directorship
period, it may make a compensatory payment in respect of bonus
once they have become established in their role to broaden their
for the period of restraint.
experience and development, and help increase the pool of
Julian Heslop retired early from the company on 31 March 2011. candidates for non-executive directors.
Under the terms of his contract entered into in 2005, prior to the
Any outside appointments are considered by the Nominations
above framework being introduced, he was entitled to receive one
Committee to ensure they would not cause a conflict of interest
year’s notice on termination and his payment included one year’s
and are then approved by the Chairman on behalf of the Board.
annual salary and a 12 months’ on-target bonus.
It is the company’s policy that remuneration earned from such
Simon Dingemans joined the Board on 4 January 2011 and was appointments may be kept by the individual Executive.
appointed CFO on 1 April 2011 following Julian Heslop’s early
retirement. In line with the company’s policy, Simon Dingemans’
contract provides for a termination payment based on one year’s
base salary only.122 GSK Annual Report 2011
Governance & Remuneration report continued
remuneration
Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors The shares or ADS which are notionally awarded to the Non-
Executive Directors and allocated to their interest accounts are set
How Non-Executive Director fees are set out in the table on page 125 and are included within the Directors’
interests table on page 126. The accumulated balance of these
The company aims to provide the Chairman and other Non-
shares or ADS, together with notional dividends subsequently
Executive Directors with fees that are competitive with those paid
reinvested, are not paid out to the Non-Executive Directors until
by other companies of equivalent size and complexity, subject to
retirement from the Board. Upon retirement, the Non-Executive
the limits contained in GSK’s Articles of Association.
Directors will receive either the shares or ADS, or a cash amount
The Chairman and the CEO are responsible for evaluating and equal to the value of the shares or ADS at the date of retirement,
making recommendations to the Board on the fees payable to the or date of payment if later.
Non-Executive Directors.
Letters of appointment
Fees
The terms of engagement of the Non-Executive Directors are
The Chairman’s fees are currently £540,000 per annum plus an set out in letters of appointment which are available for inspection
allocation of shares to the value of £135,000 per annum. at the company’s registered office and at the AGM. For each
Non-Executive Director, his or her initial appointment and any
The other Non-Executive Directors’ fees applying at 31 December
subsequent re-appointment are subject to election and, thereafter,
2011 are as follows:
periodic re-election by shareholders.
Per annum
The Non-Executive Directors’ letters of appointment do not
Standard annual cash retainer fee £75,000
contain provision for notice periods or for compensation if their
Supplemental fees appointments are terminated.
Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee* £80,000 The following table shows the date of the initial letter of
appointment of each Non-Executive Director:
Senior Independent Director
and Scientific/Medical Experts £30,000
Non-Executive Director Date of letter of appointment
Chairmen of the Remuneration and Corporate Sir Christopher Gent 26 May 2004
Responsibility Committees† £20,000 Professor Sir Roy Anderson 28 September 2007
Dr Stephanie Burns 12 February 2007
Non-Executive Director undertaking £7,500
Stacey Cartwright 3 March 2011
intercontinental travel to meetings per meeting
Larry Culp 9 June 2003
* T he fee for the Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee reflects the increased Sir Crispin Davis 9 June 2003
focus within the Group on compliance and risk, and the time commitment Judy Lewent 3 March 2011
required from the Committee Chairman of approximately 80 days per annum. Sir Deryck Maughan 26 May 2004
Full details of the operation of the Audit & Risk Committee are given on James Murdoch 26 February 2009
pages 97 to 101.
Dr Daniel Podolsky 3 July 2008
† S ir Christopher Gent is the Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Tom de Swaan 21 December 2005
Committee, but does not receive the additional fee listed above. Sir Robert Wilson 9 June 2003
In recent years, there has been an increase in the time
In Sir Christopher Gent’s letter of appointment, it was agreed
commitment, demands and responsibility placed on the role of a
that he would serve the company as Deputy Chairman until
non-executive director, and this has generally led to an increase in
31 December 2004 and from 1 January 2005 as Chairman until
their fees. As a result of these developments in the market,
the conclusion of the AGM following the third anniversary of his
Non-Executive Director fees at GSK were independently reviewed
appointment. This was extended for a term of three years by
during 2011. The review highlighted that there was scope to
mutual agreement, with effect from his re-election as a Director at
increase Non-Executive Director fees. However, in the light of the
the AGM held on 21 May 2008. This has been further extended for
current environment, it was decided not to increase the fees at this
a period of five years with effect from 1 January 2011, subject to
time. They will continue to be kept under review.
annual re-election at AGMs.
Non-Executive Directors’ share allocation plan
Exchange rate
To enhance the link between Directors and shareholders, GSK
Fees that are paid in US dollars were converted at the following
requires Non-Executive Directors to receive a significant part of
exchange rates:
their fees in the form of shares. At least 25% of the Non-Executive
Directors’ total fees, excluding those of the Chairman, are paid in Exchange rate
the form of shares or ADS and allocated to a share account. The Period rate applied £/US$
1 January 2010 – 31 December 2010 US$1.6326
Non-Executive Directors may also take the opportunity to invest
1 January 2011 – 31 December 2011 US$1.5798
part or all of the balance of their fees into the same share or
1 January 2012 – 31 December 2012 US$1.5718
ADS account.
The exchange rate is set annually based on the average daily rate
for the last quarter of the year prior to payment. The rate will be
reviewed if it moves significantly during the year.123 GSK Annual Report 2011
TSR performance graph
The following graph sets out the performance of the company
relative to the FTSE 100 Index, of which the company is a
constituent, and to the pharmaceutical performance comparator
group for the five year period to 31 December 2011. The graph
has been prepared in accordance with the Regulations as defined
in ’Basis of preparation’ on page 133 and is not an indication of
the likely vesting of awards granted under any of the company’s
incentive plans.
TSR performance
150
125
100
75
31/12/06 31/12/07 31/12/08 31/12/09 31/12/ 10 3 1/12/1 1
GlaxoSmithKline Total Return
GlaxoSmithKline Pharma Peers Return Index*
FTSE 100 Total Return Index
* This index includes Abbott Laboratories, AstraZeneca, Bristol-Myers Squibb,
Eli Lilly, Johnson & Johnson, Merck, Novartis, Pfizer, Roche Holdings and Sanofi.124 GSK Annual Report 2011
Governance & Remuneration report continued
remuneration
Directors’ emoluments and total remuneration
In addition to the statutory disclosure of total emoluments for the year, we have also provided ‘total remuneration’, which includes the value
of LTIs earned where the relevant performance period ended during the year.
2011 2010
Compen-
sation for Total (a) Value Total Total (a) Value Total
Fees or Other Annual loss of emolu- of LTIs remune- Fees or Other Annual emolu- of LTIs remune-
Footnote salary benefits bonus office ments earned ration salary benefits bonus ments earned ration
000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000
Executive Directors
Sir Andrew Witty a,b,c,d,h £1,000 £36 £2,000 – £3,036 £3,743 £6,779 £1,000 £126 £1,177 £2,303 £1,373 £3,676
Simon Dingemans b,c,e,h £656 £157 £827 – £1,640 – £1,640 – – – – – –
Julian Heslop a,b,d,g £141 £31 £104 £945 £1,221 £1,571 £2,792 £525 £108 £417 £1,050 £504 £1,554
Dr Moncef Slaoui a,c,f,h $1,093 $302 $1,747 – $3,142 $1,753 $4,895 $953 $405 $1,434 $2,792 $1,074 $3,866
Total Executive Directors £2,476 £412 £4,016 £945 £7,849 £6,403 £14,252 £2,140 £495 £2,518 £5,153 £2,570 £7,723
Non-Executive Directors
Professor Sir Roy Anderson £135 – – – £135 – £135 £128 – – £128 – £128
Stacey Cartwright i £56 – – – £56 – £56 – – – – – –
Sir Crispin Davis £125 – – – £125 – £125 £118 – – £118 – £118
Sir Christopher Gent £675 – – – £675 – £675 £675 £2 – £677 – £677
James Murdoch £90 – – – £90 – £90 £98 – – £98 – £98
Tom de Swaan £185 £1 – – £186 – £186 £177 £1 – £178 – £178
Sir Robert Wilson £135 – – – £135 – £135 £128 – – £128 – £128
Dr Stephanie Burns $154 – – – $154 – $154 $146 – – $146 – $146
Larry Culp $154 – – – $154 – $154 $135 – – $135 – $135
Judy Lewent i $101 – – – $101 – $101 – – – – – –
Sir Deryck Maughan $130 – – – $130 – $130 $147 – – $147 – $147
Dr Daniel Podolsky $201 – – – $201 – $201 $208 – – $208 – $208
Total Non-Executive Directors £1,861 £1 – – £1,862 – £1,862 £1,733 £3 – £1,736 – £1,736
Former Directors
Dr Jean-Pierre Garnier – $118 – – $118 – $118 – $118 – $118 – $118
Total Former Directors – £73 – – £73 – £73 – £76 – £76 – £76
Total £4,337 £486 £4,016 £945 £9,784 £6,403 £16,187 £3,873 £574 £2,518 £6,965 £2,570 £9,535
Remuneration for Directors on the US payroll is reported in Dollars at the average exchange rates for each year. None of the above Directors received reimbursement
for expenses during the year requiring separate disclosure under the Regulations as defined in ‘Basis of Preparation’ on page 133.
a) A n analysis of the value of LTIs earned by Sir Andrew Witty, Julian Heslop and Dr Moncef Slaoui is set out on page 126.
b) S ir Andrew Witty and Simon Dingemans participate in salary sacrifice schemes, including ShareReward. Julian Heslop also participated until his early retirement
on 31 March 2011.
c) S ir Andrew Witty, Simon Dingemans and Dr Moncef Slaoui have elected to participate in GSK’s Deferred Annual Bonus Plan in respect of their 2011 bonuses.
Sir Andrew Witty deferred 35% of his 2011 bonus (2010 – 32%), Simon Dingemans deferred 50% of his 2011 bonus and Dr Moncef Slaoui deferred 50%
of his 2011 bonus (2010 – 50%).
d) F ollowing the merger of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham, to encourage employees to convert their holdings of non-savings related options over
legacy shares or ADS for options over GlaxoSmithKline shares or ADS, employees were granted an additional cash benefit equal to 10% of the grant price
of the original option. This additional benefit, known as the Exchange Offer Incentive (EOI), was only payable when the new option was exercised or lapsed
underwater. To qualify for this additional cash benefit, participants had to retain these options until at least the second anniversary of the effective date of the
merger. In 2010, Sir Andrew Witty received £93,002 and Julian Heslop received £89,936. These amounts are included within ‘Other benefits’ above. There
are no further awards eligible for the EOI.
e) S imon Dingemans joined the Board on 4 January 2011 and his remuneration is recorded from this date. He does not participate in any of GSK’s pension plans
and instead received, in respect of 2011, £132,000 in lieu of a money purchase pension contribution and £12,540 in respect of life assurance contributions,
which are both included in ‘Other benefits’ above.
f) D r Moncef Slaoui stepped down as a Non-Executive Director of the Agency for Science, Technology and Research (A*STAR) on 31 January 2011. During 2011
he received $nil (2010 – $1,005) which is not included above.
g) J ulian Heslop retired early on 31 March 2011. He received one year’s annual salary and 12 months’ on-target bonus as compensation for loss of office, as set
out under the terms of his contract.
h) The total remuneration for each Executive Director in office at 31 December 2011 for each of the last five years, or since the date of appointment if later, is as follows:
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
000 000 000 000 000
Sir Andrew Witty* £6,779 £3,676 £3,449 £1,778 n/a
Simon Dingemans* £1,640 n/a n/a n/a n/a
Dr Moncef Slaoui $4,895 $3,866 $3,695 $2,483 $2,166
* S ir Andrew Witty was appointed to the Board on 31 January 2008 and Simon Dingemans was appointed on 4 January 2011.
i) S tacey Cartwright and Judy Lewent joined the Board on 1 April 2011 and their fees are recorded from this date.125 GSK Annual Report 2011
Non-Executive Directors’ fees
2011 2010
Cash Shares/ADS Total Cash Shares/ADS Total
Fees 000 000 000 000 000 000
Non-Executive Directors
Professor Sir Roy Anderson £101 £34 £135 £96 £32 £128
Stacey Cartwright £42 £14 £56 – – –
Sir Crispin Davis – £125 £125 – £118 £118
Sir Christopher Gent £540 £135 £675 £540 £135 £675
James Murdoch – £90 £90 – £98 £98
Tom de Swaan £139 £46 £185 £133 £44 £177
Sir Robert Wilson £101 £34 £135 £96 £32 £128
Dr Stephanie Burns $77 $77 $154 $73 $73 $146
Larry Culp – $154 $154 – $135 $135
Judy Lewent $76 $25 $101 – – –
Sir Deryck Maughan – $130 $130 – $147 $147
Dr Daniel Podolsky $50 $151 $201 $52 $156 $208
Total fees £1,049 £812 £1,861 £945 £788 £1,733
Non-Executive Directors are required to take at least a part of their total fees in the form of shares or ADS allocated to a share/ADS
account, which is not paid out until retirement from the Board (see page 122 for further details of the share allocation plan). For each
Non-Executive Director the total value of these shares or ADS as at the date of award, together with the cash payment, forms his or her
total fees, which are included within the table on page 124 under ‘Fees or salary’. The table above sets out the value of the fees received
in the form of cash and shares or ADS.
The table below sets out the accumulated number of shares or ADS held by the Non-Executive Directors under the share allocation plan in
relation to their fees received as Board members as at 31 December 2011, together with the movements in their accounts over the year.
Number of shares or ADS
31 December Allocated Dividends 31 December
Share allocation plan 2010 & elected reinvested 2011
Non-Executive Directors
Shares
Professor Sir Roy Anderson 8,620 2,570 407 11,597
Stacey Cartwright – 1,024 4 1,028
Sir Crispin Davis 54,642 9,523 2,536 66,701
Sir Christopher Gent 66,740 10,208 3,073 80,021
James Murdoch 9,105 6,931 468 16,504
Tom de Swaan 13,028 3,514 613 17,155
Sir Robert Wilson 15,341 2,570 712 18,623
ADS
Dr Stephanie Burns 7,352 1,854 361 9,567
Larry Culp 23,417 3,708 1,134 28,259
Judy Lewent – 586 2 588
Sir Deryck Maughan 21,462 3,112 1,034 25,608
Dr Daniel Podolsky 12,635 3,630 623 16,888126 GSK Annual Report 2011
Governance & Remuneration report continued
remuneration
Directors’ interests
The following interests of the Directors of the company in office at 31 December 2011 and their connected persons are shown in
accordance with the FSA Listing Rules.
Shares ADS
2 March 31 December 1 January 2 March 31 December 1 January
Footnote 2012 2011 2011 2012 2011 2011
Executive Directors
Sir Andrew Witty a,b 383,039 253,794 151,213 – – –
Simon Dingemans a,c 40,208 40,171 – – – –
Dr Moncef Slaoui b,d 61,651 61,119 59,133 81,246 56,800 18,459
Non-Executive Directors
Professor Sir Roy Anderson e 11,597 11,597 8,620 – – –
Dr Stephanie Burns e 44 44 44 9,632 9,632 7,418
Stacey Cartwright e,f 1,149 1,149 – – – –
Larry Culp e – – – 28,259 28,259 23,417
Sir Crispin Davis e 73,460 73,460 61,402 – – –
Sir Christopher Gent e 80,021 80,021 66,741 – – –
Judy Lewent e,f – – – 588 588 –
Sir Deryck Maughan e – – – 25,608 25,608 21,462
James Murdoch e 17,504 17,504 10,105 – – –
Dr Daniel Podolsky e – – – 16,888 16,888 12,635
Tom de Swaan e 17,155 17,155 13,028 – – –
Sir Robert Wilson e 24,751 24,751 21,470 – – –
One GlaxoSmithKline ADS represents two GlaxoSmithKline shares. The interests of the above-mentioned Directors at 2 March 2012 reflect the change between the
year-end and that date.
a) Includes shares purchased through the GlaxoSmithKline ShareReward Plan for Sir Andrew Witty totalling 2,946 shares at 31 December 2011 (31 December 2010 –
2,577) and 1,879 shares at 2 March 2012 and Simon Dingemans totalling 171 shares at 31 December 2011 (31 December 2010 – nil) and 208 shares at 2 March 2012.
b) T he totals at 2 March 2012 include shares or ADS which vested under elements of the 2009 award of the Performance Share Plan, less those sold to satisfy
tax liabilities on the amount of the plan award (see pages 130 and 131 for details).
c) S imon Dingemans joined the Board on 4 January 2011 and his holdings are disclosed from this date.
d) I ncludes ADS purchased in the GlaxoSmithKline Stock Fund within the US Retirement Savings Plan and US Executive Supplemental Savings Plan.
e) I ncludes shares or ADS received as part or all of their fees, as described under ‘Non-Executive Directors’ share allocation plan’ on page 122. Dividends
received on these shares or ADS during 2011 were converted into shares or ADS as at 31 December 2011.
f) S tacey Cartwright and Judy Lewent joined the Board on 1 April 2011 and their holdings are disclosed from this date.
Long-Term Incentive plans
Value of LTIs earned
The value of LTIs earned for current and former Executive Directors includes the amounts vesting under GSK’s LTI plans (the Share Option Plan
and the Performance Share Plan) where the relevant performance period(s) ended during the reporting year, together with the amounts
vesting under the ShareSave Plan where the contract(s) ended during the year. The totals are analysed as follows:
Sir Andrew Witty Dr Moncef Slaoui Julian Heslop Total
2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010
Vesting of: Page(s) 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000
2008 Performance Share Plan award 130 and 131 – £1,373 – $1,074 – £504 – £2,570
2009 Performance Share Plan award 130 and 131 £3,738 – $1,753 – £1,570 – £6,397 –
ShareSave 127 £5 – – – £1 – £6 –
Total £3,743 £1,373 $1,753 $1,074 £1,571 £504 £6,403 £2,570127 GSK Annual Report 2011
Share Option Plan awards
In respect of options granted under the Share Option Plan (SOP), the remuneration receivable by an Executive Director is calculated on
the date that the options first vest. The remuneration is the difference between the amount the Executive Director is required to pay to
buy the shares or ADS and the total value of the shares or ADS on the vesting date.
If the Executive Director chooses not to exercise the options on the vesting date (he may exercise the options at any time during the
next seven years), any subsequent increase or decrease in the amount realised will be due to movements in the share or ADS price
between the initial vesting date and the date of exercise. This increase or decrease in value is the result of an investment decision by
the Executive Director and, as such, is not recorded as remuneration.
The options outstanding at 31 December 2011 and 9 March 2012 and the movements during the periods are shown in the table below.
31 December 31 December 9 March
Options – shares
2010 Exercised Lapsed 2011 Exercised Lapsed 2012
Sir Andrew Witty 1,290,502 (72,000) (814,000) 404,502 (1,009) – 403,493
Dr Moncef Slaoui 140,320 (45,000) – 95,320 – – 95,320
Julian Heslop 585,050 (116,688) (351,245) 117,117 – – 117,117
Exercised options – shares Market
Date of Number price at Gain
2011 Date of grant exercise of shares Grant price exercise 000
Sir Andrew Witty 03.12.02 04.11.11 72,000 £11.79 £13.78 £143
Dr Moncef Slaoui 03.12.02 04.11.11 45,000 £11.79 £13.77 £89
Julian Heslop: 01.12.09 03.05.11 438 £9.72 £13.16 £2
02.12.04 21.10.11 62,250 £11.23 £13.93 £168
28.10.03 22.12.11 54,000 £12.68 £14.54 £100
2012
Sir Andrew Witty 01.12.08 07.02.12 1,009 £9.51 £14.06 £5
31 December 31 December 9 March
Options – ADS
Footnote 2010 Exercised Lapsed 2011 Exercised Lapsed 2012
Dr Moncef Slaoui a 321,735 – (158,750) 162,985 – (79,375) 83,610
a) T he total of ADS for Dr Slaoui includes the interests of his connected person, who is also an employee of GSK.
The following table shows the gains on the exercises of the options set out above analysed between remuneration for the Executive
Directors and the subsequent gains/(losses) as a result of their investment decisions.
Market Remuneration Investment Net
Date of Vesting price at Date of gain/(loss) gain
2011 Plan grant date vesting exercise Year 000 000 000
Sir Andrew Witty SOP 03.12.02 05.12.05 £14.66 04.11.11 2005 £207 £(64) £143
Dr Moncef Slaoui SOP 03.12.02 05.12.05 £14.66 04.11.11 2005 £129 £(40) £89
Julian Heslop ShareSave 01.12.09 01.04.11 £12.01 03.05.11 2011 £1 £1 £2
SOP 02.12.04 03.12.07 £12.94 21.10.11 2007 £106 £62 £168
SOP 28.10.03 30.10.06 £14.00 22.12.11 2006 £71 £29 £100
£270
2012
Sir Andrew Witty ShareSave 01.12.08 01.12.11 £14.07 07.02.12 2011 £5 – £5128 GSK Annual Report 2011
Governance & Remuneration report continued
remuneration
Share Option Plan awards continued
For those options outstanding at 31 December 2011, the earliest and latest vesting and lapse dates for options above and below the
market price for a GlaxoSmithKline share or ADS at the year-end are given in the table below.
Weighted average Vesting date Lapse date
Sir Andrew Witty grant price Number earliest latest earliest latest
Total share options and share options below
market price at 31 December 2011 vested £12.49 404,502 21.02.07 01.12.11 01.06.12 20.02.16
Weighted average Vesting date Lapse date
Dr Moncef Slaoui grant price Number earliest latest earliest latest
Shares
Total share options and share options below
market price at 31 December 2011 vested £13.71 95,320 02.12.07 18.02.09 01.12.14 20.02.16
ADS*
Options above market price at year-end: vested $56.92 935 28.07.09 20.02.10 27.07.16 19.02.17
Options below market price at year-end: vested $44.75 1,100 19.02.11 19.02.11 18.02.18 18.02.18
unvested $33.45 160,950 17.02.12 22.02.13 16.02.19 21.02.20
Total ADS options as at 31 December 2011 $33.66 162,985
* This includes those ADS options held by Dr Moncef Slaoui’s connected person, who is also an employee of GSK.
Weighted average Vesting date Lapse date
Julian Heslop grant price Number earliest latest earliest latest
Total share options and options below
market price at 31 December 2011 vested £14.68 117,117 18.02.09 18.02.09 31.03.13 31.03.13
GSK granted share options to Executive Directors on an annual basis until 2009. The Directors hold these options under the various share
option plans referred to in Note 42 to the financial statements, ‘Employee share schemes’. None of the Non-Executive Directors had an
interest in any option over the company’s shares.
The highest and lowest closing prices during the year ended 31 December 2011 for GlaxoSmithKline shares and ADS were £14.74 and
£11.28 and $45.74 and $36.33 respectively. The market price for a GlaxoSmithKline share on 31 December 2011 was £14.72
(31 December 2010 – £12.40) and for a GlaxoSmithKline ADS was $45.63 (31 December 2010 – $39.22).
The tables below set out, for share options granted in 2008 and 2009, the performance periods, the performance targets and whether or
not the options have vested at 31 December 2011 and 9 March 2012.
Performance target
Vesting status Annualised growth Percentage of
Grant Footnote Performance period at 31 December 2011 in EPS award vesting
February 2008 a 2008 – 2010 Lapsed > RPI + 6% 100%
RPI + 5% 83%
RPI + 4% 67%
RPI + 3% 50%
< RPI + 3% 0%
Performance target
Vesting status Annualised growth Percentage of
Grant Footnote Performance period at 9 March 2012 at 31 December 2011 in EPS award vesting
February 2009 – 50% of award a 2009 – 2011 Lapsed Unvested > RPI + 6% 100%
February 2009 – 50% of award 2009 – 2012 Unvested Unvested RPI + 5% 85%
RPI + 4% 65%
RPI + 3% 30%
< RPI + 3% 0%
a) T he performance targets for these share options were not met, and as a result they lapsed on the third anniversary of the date of grant.129 GSK Annual Report 2011
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan awards
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan (DABP) awards are made to Executive Directors annually based on the individual’s voluntary bonus deferral
election. The company will match shares or ADS up to one-for-one depending on the company’s performance during a three year
performance period. The amount of remuneration receivable in respect of the matching shares or ADS is calculated using the share or
ADS price on the date the relevant DABP award vests.
Sir Andrew Witty – Shares Performance period
2010-2012 2011-2013 2012-2014
Market price at grant £12.35 £11.80 £14.12
Unvested at 31 December 2010 24,907 – –
Granted – 31,921 –
Dividends reinvested 1,322 759 –
Unvested at 31 December 2011 26,229 32,680 –
Granted – – 49,575
Dividends reinvested 300 374 –
Unvested at 9 March 2012 26,529 33,054 49,575
Simon Dingemans – Shares Performance period
2012-2014
Market price at grant £14.12
Unvested at 31 December 2011 –
Granted 29,286
Unvested at 9 March 2012 29,286
Dr Moncef Slaoui – ADS Performance period
2011-2013 2012-2014
Market price at grant $38.22 $44.68
Unvested at 31 December 2010 – –
Granted 18,756 –
Dividends reinvested 462 –
Unvested at 31 December 2011 19,218 –
Granted – 19,555
Dividends reinvested 225 –
Unvested at 9 March 2012 19,443 19,555
The following vesting schedules apply to DABP awards made in 2010 and 2011.
2010 – The award vests after three years subject to the relative TSR vesting schedule given for the 2010 PSP award on page 131.
2011 – The award has the same performance period and vesting criteria as for the 2011 PSP award given on page 131.130 GSK Annual Report 2011
Governance & Remuneration report continued
remuneration
Performance Share Plan awards
Performance Share Plan (PSP) awards are made to Executive Directors on an annual basis. The Directors hold these awards under the
various PSP plans referred to in Note 42 to the financial statements, ‘Employee share schemes’. The amount of remuneration receivable in
respect of performance shares is calculated using the share or ADS price on the date the relevant PSP award vests.
Sir Andrew Witty – Shares Performance period
2008-2010 2008-2010 2009-2011 2009-2012 2010-2012 2010-2013 2011-2013 2012-2014
Market price at grant £11.47 £12.21 £10.62 £10.62 £12.04 £12.04 £11.78 £14.12
Unvested at 31 December 2010 254,449 69,311 350,432 150,185 298,047 127,734 – –
Granted – – – – – – 424,448 –
Dividends reinvested 7,265 1,979 18,526 7,940 15,756 6,753 10,003 –
Vested (91,601) (24,952) – – – – – –
Lapsed (170,113) (46,338) – – – – – –
Unvested at 31 December 2011 – – 368,958 158,125 313,803 134,487 434,451 –
Granted – – – – – 441,926
Dividends reinvested 11,060 1,814 3,599 1,543 4,984 –
Vested (266,013) – – – – –
Lapsed (114,005) – – – – –
Unvested at 9 March 2012 – 159,939 317,402 136,030 439,435 441,926
Sir Andrew Witty – Vested shares:
Number of shares 91,601 24,952 266,013
Market price at vesting £11.78 £11.78 £14.05
000 000 000
Gain: £1,079 £294
Remuneration for 2010 £1,373
Remuneration for 2011 £3,738
Simon Dingemans – Shares Performance period
2011-2013 2012-2014
Market price at grant £11.78 £14.12
Unvested at 31 December 2010 – –
Granted 196,095 –
Dividends reinvested 4,621 –
Unvested at 31 December 2011 200,716 –
Granted – 170,141
Dividends reinvested 2,303 –
Unvested at 9 March 2012 203,019 170,141
Julian Heslop – Shares Performance period
2008-2010 2009-2011 2009-2012 2010-2012 2010-2013
Market price at grant £11.47 £10.62 £10.62 £12.04 £12.04
Unvested at 31 December 2010 118,743 147,182 63,078 125,180 53,648
Dividends reinvested 3,390 7,781 3,334 6,618 2,836
Vested (42,747) – – – –
Lapsed (79,386) – – – –
Unvested at 31 December 2011 – 154,963 66,412 131,798 56,484
Dividends reinvested 4,645 762 1,512 648
Vested (111,726) – – –
Lapsed (47,882) – – –
Unvested at 9 March 2012 – 67,174 133,310 57,132
Julian Heslop – Vested shares:
Number of shares 42,747 111,726
Market price at vesting £11.78 £14.05
Gain: 000 000
Remuneration for 2010 £504
Remuneration for 2011 £1,570131 GSK Annual Report 2011
Performance Share Plan awards continued
Dr Moncef Slaoui – ADS Performance period
2008-2010 2009-2011 2009-2012 2010-2012 2010-2013 2011-2013 2012-2014
Market price at grant $44.75 $33.71 $33.71 $37.32 $37.32 $38.13 $44.68
Unvested at 31 December 2010 78,152 51,395 22,027 93,673 40,146 – –
Granted – – – – – 147,521 –
Dividends reinvested 2,235 2,761 1,183 5,032 2,157 3,604 –
Vested (28,136) – – – – – –
Lapsed (52,251) – – – – – –
Unvested at 31 December 2011 – 54,156 23,210 98,705 42,303 151,125 –
Granted – – – – – 129,700
Dividends reinvested 1,650 273 1,161 498 1,779 –
Vested (39,065) – – – – –
Lapsed (16,741) – – – – –
Unvested at 9 March 2012 – 23,483 99,866 42,801 152,904 129,700
Dr Moncef Slaoui – Vested ADS:
Number of ADS 28,136 39,065
Market price at vesting $38.18 $44.87
Gain: 000 000
Remuneration for 2010 $1,074
Remuneration for 2011 $1,753
Under the terms of the PSP, the number of shares or ADS actually vesting is determined following the end of the relevant performance
period and is dependent on GSK’s performance during that period. The Committee adjusted the comparator group for relative TSR by
removing Schering-Plough and Wyeth following their de-listings during 2009 and revised the vesting schedule accordingly. For outstanding
and future awards, relative TSR performance will be measured against the revised comparator group as set out on page 112.
Dividends are reinvested on the performance shares or ADS awarded to Executives throughout the performance period and up to the date
of the final award. Under the terms of the PSP, US participants may defer receipt of all or part of their vested awards.
The following vesting schedules apply to PSP awards made in 2009, 2010 and 2011.
*Business diversification performance vesting schedule
Maximum performance expressed as
Award % of award Performance period Percentage of award vesting percentage of threshold
2011 25 2011 – 2013 0% –100% 114%
*R&D new product performance vesting schedule
Maximum performance expressed as
Award % of award Performance period Percentage of award vesting percentage of threshold
2011 25 2011 – 2013 0% –100% 122%
Adjusted free cash flow vesting schedule
Cash flow targets
Award % of award Performance period £bn Percentage of award vesting
2009 40 2009 – 2011 13.5 – 16.0 0% – 100%
2010 40 2010 – 2012 17.3 – 20.5 0% – 100%
2011 25 2011 – 2013 16.2 – 17.2 0% – 100%
Relative TSR vesting schedule
Award % of award Performance period TSR rank with 10 other companies Percentage of award vesting
2009 30 2009 – 2011 1 100%
30 2009 – 2012 2 100%
2010 30 2010 – 2012 3 100%
30 2010 – 2013 4 80%
2011 25 2011 – 2013 5 55%
Median 30%
Below median 0%
* Due to commercial sensitivity, the targets for business diversification performance and R&D new product performance measures will be disclosed along
with outcomes in the 2013 Remuneration Report.132 GSK Annual Report 2011
Governance & Remuneration report continued
remuneration
Share Value Plan awards
Dr Moncef Slaoui – ADS
Market
price on Unvested at Unvested at Unvested at
date of 31 December 31 December 9 March
Plan year grant 2010 Granted Vested 2011 Vested 2012
2008 $44.75 640 – (640) – – –
2009 $33.42 640 – – 640 (640) –
2010 $37.32 640 – – 640 – 640
2011 $38.13 – 2,450 – 2,450 – 2,450
As an Executive Director, Dr Moncef Slaoui is not eligible to receive awards under the Share Value Plan. The awards shown above
reflect the holdings of Dr Moncef Slaoui’s connected person, who is also an employee of GSK. The awards are subject to three-year
vesting periods and vesting is contingent on continued employment with GSK. The gains arising on vesting are not included in the
total remuneration for Dr Moncef Slaoui as set out on page 124.
Pension benefits
The accrued annual pension benefits and transfer values on retirement for Executive Directors in office during the year are set out below.
The Companies Act 2006 requires disclosure of the accrued benefit at the end of the year, the change in accrued benefit over the year, the
transfer value at both the beginning and end of the year and the change in the transfer value over the year. The FSA’s Listing Rules require
additional disclosure of the change in the accrued benefit, net of inflation and the transfer value of this change. Pensions for the Executive
Directors have been disclosed in the currency in which the pension is payable.
Change in *Transfer value
Accrued Accrued **Change in Personal Transfer Transfer accrued of change
benefit at benefit at accrued contributions value at value at *Change benefit over in accrued
31 December 31 December benefit made during 31 December 31 December in transfer year net benefit net
Executive Director 2010 2011 over year the year 2010 2011 value of inflation of inflation
000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000
Sir Andrew Witty £497 £530 £33 £30 £9,651 £12,950 £3,269 £10 £234
Dr Moncef Slaoui $230 $263 $33 n/a $1,518 $2,003 $485 $25 $193
Dr Moncef Slaoui €65 €71 €6 n/a €689 €732 €43 €4 €38
Julian Heslop £222 £227 £5 £4 £5,308 £7,966 £2,654 £5 £143
* These are shown net of contributions made by the individual.
** T he change in accrued benefit shown for Julian Heslop excludes the impact of inflation.
Sir Andrew Witty and Julian Heslop participate in the Glaxo Wellcome final salary plan with an accrual rate of 1/30th of final pensionable
salary per annum. In 2000, all benefits accrued under the Glaxo Wellcome UK pension arrangements were augmented by the Trustees of
the plans by 5% to reflect a distribution of surplus. This augmentation will apply to that element of Sir Andrew Witty’s and Julian Heslop’s
pension earnings before 31 March 2000.
The transfer values for Sir Andrew Witty and Julian Heslop are calculated in accordance with pensions’ regulation and represent the
present value of potential payments under the pension plan. The conditions underlying the calculation have changed, in particular the
yields on index-linked gilts, and these changes have increased the transfer values by £2,122,616 (65% of increase) for Sir Andrew Witty
and £1,167,538 (44% of increase) for Julian Heslop. The remaining increases in their transfer values are, for both, the result of the
increased valuation of the pension benefit accrued in the period, for Sir Andrew Witty, the reduced period of service to the assumed
retirement age and, for Julian Heslop, his early retirement on 31 March 2011.
Simon Dingemans joined GSK in January 2011. He is not accumulating benefits in any of GSK’s pension plans and receives a cash
contribution in lieu of a money purchase pension contribution.
Dr Moncef Slaoui is a member of the US Executive Cash Balance Pension Plan. The plan provides for an Executive Pension Credit, under
which GSK makes annual contributions calculated as a percentage of the executive’s base salary. GSK makes contributions at 38% of base
pay. The fund increases at an interest rate set annually in advance, based on the 30 year US Treasury bond rate, to provide a cash sum at
retirement. The plan has no entitlement to a spouse’s pension or to pension increases.
The transfer value, or cash sum, has increased by $484,791 for Dr Moncef Slaoui over the year as a result of further accumulation of
interest and contributions paid by the company.
Dr Moncef Slaoui was an active participant in the Belgium Fortis Plan until 31 May 2006. This plan is a defined benefit plan with
a lump sum payable at normal retirement, which is age 60 for the plan. The transfer value, or cash sum, of Dr Moncef Slaoui’s
plan has increased by €43,013 over the year as a result of further accumulation of interest.133 GSK Annual Report 2011
Dr Moncef Slaoui is a member of the US Retirement Savings Plan, a Basis of preparation
401k savings scheme open to all US employees and the Executive
Supplemental Savings Plan, a savings scheme open to executives to The Remuneration Report has been prepared in accordance with
accrue benefits above US government limits imposed on the the Companies Act 2006 and The Large and Medium-sized
Retirement Savings Plan. Contributions to both plans are invested in Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008
a range of funds and the value of the accumulated funds is paid (the Regulations) and meets the relevant requirements of the FSA
at retirement. Listing Rules. In accordance with the Regulations, the following
sections of the Remuneration Report are subject to audit: Directors’
During 2011, contributions of $122,450 (£76,056) were paid into
emoluments and total remuneration, Non-Executive Directors’ fees,
these two schemes by GSK in respect of Dr Moncef Slaoui.
Long-Term Incentive plans (including Share Option Plan awards,
Directors’ interests in contracts Deferred Annual Bonus Plan awards, Performance Share Plan
awards and Share Value Plan awards) and Pension benefits for
Except as described in Note 35 to the financial statements, ‘Related which the opinion thereon is expressed on page 135. The
party transactions’, during or at the end of the financial year no remaining sections are not subject to audit nor are the pages
Director or connected person had any material interest in any referred to from within the audited sections. The Remuneration
contract of significance with a Group company. Report has been approved by the Board of Directors and signed on
its behalf by
Directors and Senior Management
Further information is provided on compensation and interests
of Directors and Senior Management as a group (‘the group’).
For this purpose, the group is defined as the Non-Executive and
Executive Directors, other members of the CET and the Company
Secretary. For the financial year 2011, the total compensation Sir Crispin Davis
paid to members of the group for the periods during which they Remuneration Committee Chairman
served in that capacity was £24,390,535, the aggregate increase 9 March 2012
in accrued pension benefits, net of inflation, was £820,847
and the aggregate payment to defined contribution schemes
was £666,224.
During 2011, the members of the group were awarded 63,090
shares and 34,799 ADS under the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan,
1,482,920 shares and 389,088 ADS under the Performance Share
Plan, and 10,050 shares and 2,450 ADS under the Share Value
Plan. No options were granted to members of the group under the
Share Option Plan in 2011. No notional shares or ADS were granted
under the Deferred Investment Award Plan in 2011. Members of
the group were awarded, through the reinvestment of dividends,
173,842 shares and 50,214 ADS in the Performance Share Plan,
2,818 shares and 855 ADS in the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan and
7,390 notional shares in the Deferred Investment Award Plan.
At 2 March 2012, the group (comprising 32 persons) owned
1,455,671 shares and 305,139 ADS, constituting less than 1% of
the issued share capital of the company. The group also held, at
that date: options to purchase 3,006,151 shares and 450,253 ADS;
3,441,501 shares and 910,171 ADS awarded under the
Performance Share Plan, including those shares and ADS that are
vested and deferred; 1,421 vested and deferred ADS under the
legacy SmithKline Beecham Mid-Term Incentive Plan; 26,607 shares
and 3,090 ADS awarded under the Share Value Plan; 91,853 shares
and 36,071 ADS under the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan and
127,596 notional shares awarded under the Deferred Investment
Award Plan. These holdings were issued under the various
executive share plans described in Note 42 to the financial
statements, ‘Employee share schemes’.134 GSK Annual Report 2011
Financial Statements
statements Directors’ statement
of responsibilities
Directors’ statement of responsibilities in relation to • t he Business review on pages 1 to 77 includes a fair review of
the Group financial statements the development and performance of the business and the
position of the Group, together with a description of the
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report,
principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
the Remuneration Report and the Group financial statements in
accordance with applicable law and regulations. Disclosure of information to auditors
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial The Directors in office at the date of this Report have each
statements for each financial year. Under that law the Directors confirmed that:
are required to prepare the Group financial statements in
• so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)
information of which the company’s auditors are unaware; and
as adopted by the European Union. In preparing the Group
• he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have
financial statements, the Directors have also elected to comply
taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any
with IFRS, as issued by the International Accounting Standards
relevant audit information and to establish that the company’s
Board (IASB). Under company law the Directors must not approve
auditors are aware of that information.
the Group financial statements unless they are satisfied that they
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance
of the profit or loss of the Group for that period. with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: Going concern basis
• s elect suitable accounting policies and then apply them The Business review on pages 1 to 77 contains information on the
consistently; performance of the Group, its financial position, cash flows, net debt
• m ake judgements and accounting estimates that are position and borrowing facilities. Further information, including
reasonable and prudent; Treasury risk management policies, exposures to market and credit
risk and hedging activities, is given in Note 41 to the financial
• s tate that the Group financial statements comply with IFRS as
statements, ‘Financial instruments and related disclosures’. After
adopted by the European Union and IFRS as issued by the IASB,
making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in
the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational
the Group financial statements.
existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue to
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
records that are sufficient to show and explain the company’s
Internal control
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time
the financial position of the Group and to enable them to ensure The Board, through the Audit & Risk Committee, has reviewed the
that the Group financial statements and the Remuneration Report assessment of risks and the internal control framework that operates
comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS in GSK and has considered the effectiveness of the system of internal
Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets control in operation in the Group for the year covered by this report
of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the and up to the date of its approval by the Board of Directors.
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The UK Corporate Governance Code
The Group financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011,
The Board considers that GlaxoSmithKline plc applies the
comprising principal statements and supporting notes, are set out in
principles and provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code
‘Financial statements’ on pages 136 to 221 of this report. The
maintained by the Financial Reporting Council, as described in
responsibilities of the auditors in relation to the Group financial
the Corporate Governance section on pages 82 to 105, and has
statements are set out in the Independent Auditors’ report on page 135.
complied with its provisions except as disclosed on page 84.
The Group financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 As required by the Financial Services Authority’s Listing Rules, the
are included in the Annual Report, which is published in hard-copy auditors have considered the Directors’ statement of compliance
printed form and made available on our website. The Directors are in relation to those points of the UK Corporate Governance Code
responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Annual Report which are specified for their review.
on our website in accordance with UK legislation governing the
Annual Report
preparation and dissemination of financial statements. Access to the
website is available from outside the UK, where comparable The Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2011,
legislation may be different. comprising the Report of the Directors, the Remuneration Report,
the Financial statements and additional information for investors,
Each of the current Directors, whose names and functions are
has been approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its
listed in the Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report
behalf by
2011 confirms that, to the best of his or her knowledge:
• t he Group financial statements, which have been prepared in
accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and IFRS as issued Sir Christopher Gent
by the IASB, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, Chairman
financial position and profit of the Group; and 9 March 2012135 GSK Annual Report 2011
Independent Auditors’ report Separate opinion in relation to IFRS as issued by
the IASB
to the members of GlaxoSmithKline plc
As explained in note 1 to the Group financial statements, the
We have audited the Group financial statements of
Group in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply
GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 which
IFRS as adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRS as
comprise the Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated
issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB).
statement of comprehensive income, the Consolidated balance
sheet, the Consolidated statement of changes in equity, the In our opinion the Group financial statements comply with IFRS
Consolidated cash flow statement, and the related notes 1-44. as issued by the IASB.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies
preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting
Act 2006
Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union.
In our opinion the information given in the Directors’ Report for
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
the financial year for which the Group financial statements are
As explained more fully in the Directors’ statement of prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
responsibilities set out on page 134, the directors are responsible
Matters on which we are required to report by
for the preparation of the Group financial statements and for
exception
being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our
responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those
if, in our opinion:
standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s
Ethical Standards for Auditors. • c ertain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law
are not made; or
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only
for the company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter • w e have not received all the information and explanations we
3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. require for our audit.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to
whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save • t he directors’ statement, set out on page 134, in relation to
where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing. going concern;
Scope of the audit of the financial statements • t he part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the
company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the UK
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and
Corporate Governance Code specified for our review; and
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable
assurance that the financial statements are free from material • c ertain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an directors’ remuneration.
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate Other matters
to the Group’s circumstances and have been consistently applied
We have reported separately on the parent company financial
and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant
statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year ended
accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall
31 December 2011 and on the information in the Directors’
presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read all
Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
the financial and non-financial information in the annual report
to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial The Company has passed a resolution in accordance with section
statements. If we become aware of any apparent material 506 of the Companies Act 2006 that the senior statutory
misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications auditor’s name should not be stated.
for our report.
Opinion on financial statements
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
In our opinion the Group financial statements:
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
• g ive a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as at London
31 December 2011 and of its profit and cash flows for the year 9 March 2012
then ended;
• h ave been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as
adopted by the European Union; and
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of
the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.136 GSK Annual Report 2011
Financial
statements
Financial statements
Consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2011
2011 2010 2009
Results Results Results
before major Major before major Major before major Major
restructuring restructuring Total restructuring restructuring Total restructuring restructuring Total
Notes £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 6 27,387 – 27,387 28,392 – 28,392 28,368 – 28,368
Cost of sales (7,259) (73) (7,332) (7,405) (187) (7,592) (7,095) (285) (7,380)
Gross profit 20,128 (73) 20,055 20,987 (187) 20,800 21,273 (285) 20,988
Selling, general and administration (8,429) (397) (8,826) (12,388) (665) (13,053) (9,200) (392) (9,592)
Research and development (3,912) (97) (4,009) (3,964) (493) (4,457) (3,951) (155) (4,106)
Other operating income 8 610 (23) 587 493 – 493 1,135 – 1,135
Operating profit 9 8,397 (590) 7,807 5,128 (1,345) 3,783 9,257 (832) 8,425
Finance income 11 90 – 90 116 – 116 70 – 70
Finance costs 12 (797) (2) (799) (828) (3) (831) (780) (3) (783)
Profit on disposal of interest in associates 585 – 585 8 – 8 115 – 115
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures 13 15 – 15 81 – 81 64 – 64
Profit before taxation 8,290 (592) 7,698 4,505 (1,348) 3,157 8,726 (835) 7,891
Taxation 14 (2,354) 114 (2,240) (1,544) 240 (1,304) (2,443) 221 (2,222)
Profit after taxation for the year 5,936 (478) 5,458 2,961 (1,108) 1,853 6,283 (614) 5,669
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 197 – 197 219 – 219 138 – 138
Profit attributable to shareholders 5,739 (478) 5,261 2,742 (1,108) 1,634 6,145 (614) 5,531
5,936 (478) 5,458 2,961 (1,108) 1,853 6,283 (614) 5,669
Basic earnings per share (pence) 15 104.6p 32.1p 109.1p
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 15 103.2p 31.9p 108.2p
The calculation of ‘Results before major restructuring’ is described in Note 1, ‘Presentation of the financial statements’.
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 31 December 2011
2011 2010 2009
£m £m £m
Profit for the year 5,458 1,853 5,669
Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges (299) 166 (194)
Reclassification of exchange on liquidation or disposal of overseas subsidiaries (1) (2) (44)
Tax on exchange movements – – 19
Fair value movements on available-for-sale investments (20) 94 42
Deferred tax on fair value movements on available-for-sale investments 23 (25) (24)
Reclassification of fair value movements on available-for-sale investments (29) 1 –
Deferred tax reversed on reclassification of available-for-sale investments – (3) 13
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges – (8) (6)
Deferred tax on fair value movements on cash flow hedges – 1 2
Reclassification of cash flow hedges to income statement 1 3 1
Fair value movement on subsidiary acquisition – – (6)
Cash flow hedge reclassified to goodwill – 6 –
Actuarial losses on defined benefit plans (969) (1) (659)
Deferred tax on actuarial movements in defined benefit plans 268 1 183
Share of other comprehensive expense of associates and joint ventures (8) – –
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year (1,034) 233 (673)
Total comprehensive income for the year 4,424 2,086 4,996
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to:
Shareholders 4,271 1,847 4,895
Non-controlling interests 153 239 101
Total comprehensive income for the year 4,424 2,086 4,996137 GSK Annual Report 2011
2011 2010 2009
Results Results Results
before major Major before major Major before major Major
restructuring restructuring Total restructuring restructuring Total restructuring restructuring Total
Notes £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 6 27,387 – 27,387 28,392 – 28,392 28,368 – 28,368
Cost of sales (7,259) (73) (7,332) (7,405) (187) (7,592) (7,095) (285) (7,380)
Gross profit 20,128 (73) 20,055 20,987 (187) 20,800 21,273 (285) 20,988
Selling, general and administration (8,429) (397) (8,826) (12,388) (665) (13,053) (9,200) (392) (9,592)
Research and development (3,912) (97) (4,009) (3,964) (493) (4,457) (3,951) (155) (4,106)
Other operating income 8 610 (23) 587 493 – 493 1,135 – 1,135
Operating profit 9 8,397 (590) 7,807 5,128 (1,345) 3,783 9,257 (832) 8,425
Finance income 11 90 – 90 116 – 116 70 – 70
Finance costs 12 (797) (2) (799) (828) (3) (831) (780) (3) (783)
Profit on disposal of interest in associates 585 – 585 8 – 8 115 – 115
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures 13 15 – 15 81 – 81 64 – 64
Profit before taxation 8,290 (592) 7,698 4,505 (1,348) 3,157 8,726 (835) 7,891
Taxation 14 (2,354) 114 (2,240) (1,544) 240 (1,304) (2,443) 221 (2,222)
Profit after taxation for the year 5,936 (478) 5,458 2,961 (1,108) 1,853 6,283 (614) 5,669
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 197 – 197 219 – 219 138 – 138
Profit attributable to shareholders 5,739 (478) 5,261 2,742 (1,108) 1,634 6,145 (614) 5,531
5,936 (478) 5,458 2,961 (1,108) 1,853 6,283 (614) 5,669
Basic earnings per share (pence) 15 104.6p 32.1p 109.1p
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 15 103.2p 31.9p 108.2p
The calculation of ‘Results before major restructuring’ is described in Note 1, ‘Presentation of the financial statements’.
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 31 December 2011
2011 2010 2009
£m £m £m
Profit for the year 5,458 1,853 5,669
Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges (299) 166 (194)
Reclassification of exchange on liquidation or disposal of overseas subsidiaries (1) (2) (44)
Tax on exchange movements – – 19
Fair value movements on available-for-sale investments (20) 94 42
Deferred tax on fair value movements on available-for-sale investments 23 (25) (24)
Reclassification of fair value movements on available-for-sale investments (29) 1 –
Deferred tax reversed on reclassification of available-for-sale investments – (3) 13
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges – (8) (6)
Deferred tax on fair value movements on cash flow hedges – 1 2
Reclassification of cash flow hedges to income statement 1 3 1
Fair value movement on subsidiary acquisition – – (6)
Cash flow hedge reclassified to goodwill – 6 –
Actuarial losses on defined benefit plans (969) (1) (659)
Deferred tax on actuarial movements in defined benefit plans 268 1 183
Share of other comprehensive expense of associates and joint ventures (8) – –
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year (1,034) 233 (673)
Total comprehensive income for the year 4,424 2,086 4,996
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to:
Shareholders 4,271 1,847 4,895
Non-controlling interests 153 239 101
Total comprehensive income for the year 4,424 2,086 4,996138 GSK Annual Report 2011
Financial Financial statements continued
statements
Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2011
2011 2010
Notes £m £m
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 17 8,748 9,045
Goodwill 18 3,754 3,606
Other intangible assets 19 7,802 8,532
Investments in associates and joint ventures 20 560 1,081
Other investments 21 590 711
Deferred tax assets 14 2,849 2,566
Derivative financial instruments 41 85 97
Other non-current assets 22 525 556
Total non-current assets 24,913 26,194
Current assets
Inventories 23 3,873 3,837
Current tax recoverable 14 85 56
Trade and other receivables 24 5,576 5,793
Derivative financial instruments 41 70 93
Liquid investments 32 184 184
Cash and cash equivalents 25 5,714 6,057
Assets held for sale 26 665 16
Total current assets 16,167 16,036
Total assets 41,080 42,230
Current liabilities
Short-term borrowings 32 (2,698) (291)
Trade and other payables 27 (7,359) (6,888)
Derivative financial instruments 41 (175) (188)
Current tax payable 14 (1,643) (1,047)
Short-term provisions 29 (3,135) (4,380)
Total current liabilities (15,010) (12,794)
Non-current liabilities
Long-term borrowings 32 (12,203) (14,809)
Deferred tax liabilities 14 (822) (707)
Pensions and other post-employment benefits 28 (3,091) (2,672)
Other provisions 29 (499) (904)
Derivative financial instruments 41 (2) (5)
Other non-current liabilities 30 (626) (594)
Total non-current liabilities (17,243) (19,691)
Total liabilities (32,253) (32,485)
Net assets 8,827 9,745
Equity
Share capital 33 1,387 1,418
Share premium account 33 1,673 1,428
Retained earnings 34 3,370 4,779
Other reserves 34 1,602 1,262
Shareholders’ equity 8,032 8,887
Non-controlling interests 795 858
Total equity 8,827 9,745
Approved by the Board on 9 March 2012
Sir Christopher Gent
Chairman139 GSK Annual Report 2011
Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year ended 31 December 2011
Shareholders’ equity
Non-
Share Share Retained Other controlling Total
capital premium earnings reserves Total interests equity
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2009 1,415 1,326 4,622 568 7,931 387 8,318
Profit for the year – – 5,531 – 5,531 138 5,669
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year – – (663) 27 (636) (37) (673)
Total comprehensive income for the year – – 4,868 27 4,895 101 4,996
Distributions to non-controlling interests – – – – – (89) (89)
Changes in non-controlling interests – – – – – 338 338
Put option over non-controlling interest – – – (2) (2) – (2)
Dividends to shareholders – – (3,003) – (3,003) – (3,003)
Ordinary shares issued 1 42 – – 43 – 43
Ordinary shares acquired by ESOP Trusts – – – (57) (57) – (57)
Ordinary shares transferred by ESOP Trusts – – – 13 13 – 13
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts – – (351) 351 – – –
Share-based incentive plans – – 171 – 171 – 171
Tax on share-based incentive plans – – 14 – 14 – 14
At 31 December 2009 1,416 1,368 6,321 900 10,005 737 10,742
Profit for the year – – 1,634 – 1,634 219 1,853
Other comprehensive income for the year – – 144 69 213 20 233
Total comprehensive income for the year – – 1,778 69 1,847 239 2,086
Distributions to non-controlling interests – – – – – (118) (118)
Dividends to shareholders – – (3,205) – (3,205) – (3,205)
Ordinary shares issued 2 60 – – 62 – 62
Ordinary shares acquired by ESOP Trusts – – – (16) (16) – (16)
Ordinary shares transferred by ESOP Trusts – – – 17 17 – 17
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts – – (292) 292 – – –
Share-based incentive plans – – 175 – 175 – 175
Tax on share-based incentive plans – – 2 – 2 – 2
At 31 December 2010 1,418 1,428 4,779 1,262 8,887 858 9,745
Profit for the year – – 5,261 – 5,261 197 5,458
Other comprehensive expense for the year – – (969) (21) (990) (44) (1,034)
Total comprehensive income for the year – – 4,292 (21) 4,271 153 4,424
Distributions to non-controlling interests – – – – – (234) (234)
Dividends to shareholders – – (3,406) – (3,406) – (3,406)
Changes in non-controlling interests – – – – – 18 18
Forward contract relating to non-controlling interest – – – (29) (29) – (29)
Ordinary shares issued 5 245 – – 250 – 250
Ordinary shares purchased and cancelled or held as Treasury shares (36) – (2,191) 36 (2,191) – (2,191)
Ordinary shares acquired by ESOP Trusts – – – (36) (36) – (36 )
Ordinary shares transferred by ESOP Trusts – – – 45 45 – 45
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts – – (345) 345 – – –
Share-based incentive plans – – 191 – 191 – 191
Tax on share-based incentive plans – – 50 – 50 – 50
At 31 December 2011 1,387 1,673 3,370 1,602 8,032 795 8,827140 GSK Annual Report 2011
Financial Financial statements continued
statements
Consolidated cash flow statement for the year ended 31 December 2011
2011 2010 2009
Notes £m £m £m
Cash flow from operating activities
Profit after taxation for the year 5,458 1,853 5,669
Adjustments reconciling profit after tax to operating cash flows 36 2,255 6,778 3,876
Cash generated from operations 7,713 8,631 9,545
Taxation paid (1,463) (1,834) (1,704)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 6,250 6,797 7,841
Cash flow from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (923) (1,014) (1,418)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 100 92 48
Purchase of intangible assets (405) (621) (455)
Proceeds from sale of intangible assets 237 126 356
Purchase of equity investments (76) (279) (154)
Proceeds from sale of equity investments 68 27 59
Purchase of businesses, net of cash acquired 38 (264) (354) (2,792)
Investments in associates and joint ventures 38 (35) (61) (29)
Proceeds from disposal of subsidiary and interest in associate 1,034 – 178
Decrease in liquid investments 30 91 87
Interest received 97 107 90
Dividends from associates and joint ventures 25 18 17
Net cash outflow from investing activities (112) (1,868) (4,013)
Cash flow from financing activities
Proceeds from own shares for employee share options 45 17 13
Shares acquired by ESOP Trusts (36) (16) (57)
Issue of share capital 33 250 62 43
Purchase of own shares for cancellation or to be held as Treasury shares (2,191) – –
Increase in long-term loans – – 1,358
Increase in short-term loans 45 6 646
Repayment of short-term loans (8) (1,296) (748)
Net repayment of obligations under finance leases (38) (45) (48)
Interest paid (769) (775) (780)
Dividends paid to shareholders (3,406) (3,205) (3,003)
Distributions to non-controlling interests (234) (118) (89)
Other financing cash flows 110 (201) (109)
Net cash outflow from financing activities (6,232) (5,571) (2,774)
(Decrease)/increase in cash and bank overdrafts 37 (94) (642) 1,054
Exchange adjustments (108) 81 (158)
Cash and bank overdrafts at beginning of year 5,807 6,368 5,472
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year 5,605 5,807 6,368
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year comprise:
Cash and cash equivalents 5,714 6,057 6,545
Overdrafts (109 ) (250) (177)
5,605 5,807 6,368141 GSK Annual Report 2011
Notes to the
financial statements
1 Presentation of the financial Presentation of restructuring costs
statements In October 2007, the Board approved the implementation of a
detailed formal plan for, and GSK announced, a significant new
Description of business
Operational Excellence restructuring programme.
GlaxoSmithKline is a major global healthcare group which is
A second formal plan, representing a significant expansion of the
engaged in the creation and discovery, development, manufacture
Operational Excellence programme, was approved by the Board
and marketing of pharmaceutical products including vaccines,
and announced in February 2009. A further expansion was
Over-the-counter (OTC) medicines and health-related consumer
approved by the Board and announced in February 2010. This
products. GSK’s principal pharmaceutical products include
restructuring programme, comprising these detailed formal plans,
medicines in the following therapeutic areas: respiratory,
covers all areas of GSK’s business, including manufacturing,
anti-virals including HIV, central nervous system, cardiovascular
selling, R&D and infrastructure. Further savings have been
and urogenital, metabolic, anti-bacterials, oncology and emesis,
identified during the year and with an estimated total cost
vaccines and dermatologicals.
increased to approximately £4.85 billion, the expanded
Compliance with applicable law and IFRS programme is now expected to deliver annual pre-tax savings of
approximately £2.8 billion by the time it is substantially complete
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with
in 2014. Given the extent and cost of the Operational Excellence
the Companies Act 2006, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and
programme, management believes it has a material impact on
International Accounting Standards (IAS) and International
GSK’s operating results and on the manner in which GSK’s
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and related interpretations, as
business is conducted. GSK presents the restructuring costs
adopted by the European Union.
incurred solely as a direct result of the Operational Excellence
The financial statements are also in compliance with IFRS as issued programme in a separate column in the income statement titled
by the International Accounting Standards Board. ‘Major restructuring’.
Composition of financial statements In addition to the restructuring costs of the Operational Excellence
programme, the major restructuring column in the income
The consolidated financial statements are drawn up in Sterling,
statement includes restructuring costs incurred solely as a direct
the functional currency of GlaxoSmithKline plc, and in accordance
result of any restructuring programmes that follow, and relate to,
with IFRS accounting presentation. The financial statements
material acquisitions where the operations of the acquired
comprise:
business overlap extensively with GSK’s existing operations.
• Consolidated income statement The restructuring activities that follow, and relate to such
• Consolidated statement of comprehensive income acquisitions, are of the same nature as those undertaken under
the Operational Excellence programme and are also carried out
• Consolidated balance sheet
following a detailed formal plan. Management therefore considers
• Consolidated statement of changes in equity it appropriate to present the costs of these restructuring activities
• Consolidated cash flow statement in the same manner. The $1.65 billion (£814 million) acquisition of
Reliant Pharmaceuticals in December 2007 and the $3.6 billion
• Notes to the financial statements.
(£2.2 billion) acquisition of Stiefel Laboratories in July 2009 are
Accounting convention the only acquisitions since October 2007 that meet the criteria set
The financial statements have been prepared using the historical out above and are the only acquisitions where the costs incurred
cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain items, as a direct result of a related restructuring programme have been
as stated in the accounting policies. included within the major restructuring column.
Financial period The Group’s results before the costs of the Operational Excellence
programme and acquisition-related restructuring programmes
These financial statements cover the financial year from 1 January meeting the criteria described above are also presented in a
to 31 December 2011, with comparative figures for the financial separate column in the income statement and are described as
years from 1 January to 31 December 2010 and, where appropriate, ’Results before major restructuring’. This presentation has been
from 1 January to 31 December 2009. adopted to show clearly the Group’s results both before and after
Composition of the Group the costs of these restructuring programmes. Management
believes that this presentation assists investors in gaining a clearer
A list of the subsidiary and associated undertakings which, in the
understanding of the Group’s financial performance and in
opinion of the Directors, principally affected the amount of profit
making projections of future financial performance, as results that
or the net assets of the Group is given in Note 43, ‘Principal
include such costs, by virtue of their size and nature, have limited
Group companies’.
comparative value. This presentation is also consistent with the
way management assessed the Group’s financial performance
in 2011.142 GSK Annual Report 2011
Financial Notes to the financial statements continued
statements
1 Presentation of the financial 2 Accounting principles and policies
statements continued
Consolidation
Any restructuring costs that do not arise solely as a direct result The consolidated financial statements include:
of the Operational Excellence programme and restructuring
• the assets and liabilities, and the results and cash flows,
programmes following, and relating to, acquisitions meeting the
of the company and its subsidiaries, including ESOP Trusts
criteria described above continue to be reported in operating
expenses within results before major restructuring. • the Group’s share of the results and net assets of associates
and joint ventures.
Accounting principles and policies
The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with The financial statements of entities consolidated are made up
generally accepted accounting principles requires management to 31 December each year.
to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported Entities over which the Group has the power to govern the
amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent financial and operating policies are accounted for as subsidiaries.
assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and Where the Group has the ability to exercise joint control, the
the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the entities are accounted for as joint ventures, and where the Group
reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. has the ability to exercise significant influence, they are accounted
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with for as associates. The results and assets and liabilities of
the Group’s accounting policies approved by the Board and associates and joint ventures are incorporated into the
described in Note 2, ‘Accounting principles and policies’. consolidated financial statements using the equity method of
Information on the application of these accounting policies, accounting.
including areas of estimation and judgement is given in Note 3, Interests acquired in entities are consolidated from the date the
‘Key accounting judgements and estimates’. Where appropriate, Group acquires control and interests sold are de-consolidated
comparative figures are reclassified to ensure a consistent from the date control ceases.
presentation with current year information.
Transactions and balances between subsidiaries are eliminated
Implementation of new accounting standards and no profit before tax is taken on sales between subsidiaries
With effect from 1 January 2011, GSK has implemented an until the products are sold to customers outside the Group.
amendment to IAS 32 ‘Financial instruments: Presentation – The relevant proportion of profits on transactions with joint
Classification of rights issues’ and IAS 24 (Revised) ‘Related party ventures and associates is also deferred until the products are
disclosures’ and minor amendments to a number of other sold to third parties. Transactions with non-controlling interests
accounting standards. These revisions had no material impact on are recorded directly in equity. Deferred tax relief on unrealised
the current period. intra-Group profit is accounted for only to the extent that it is
considered recoverable.
Parent company financial statements
Goodwill is capitalised as a separate item in the case of
The financial statements of the parent company, GlaxoSmithKline
subsidiaries and as part of the cost of investment in the case of
plc, have been prepared in accordance with UK GAAP and with
joint ventures and associates. Goodwill is denominated in the
UK accounting presentation. The company balance sheet is
currency of the operation acquired.
presented on page 218 and the accounting policies are given
on page 219. Where the cost of acquisition is below the fair value of the net
assets acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the
income statement.
Business combinations
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition
accounting method. Identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent
liabilities acquired are measured at fair value at acquisition date.
The consideration transferred is measured at fair value and
includes the fair value of any contingent consideration. The costs
of acquisition are charged to the income statement in the period
in which they are incurred.
Where not all of the equity of a subsidiary is acquired the
non-controlling interest is recognised either at fair value or at the
non-controlling interest’s share of the net assets of the subsidiary,
on a case-by-case basis. Changes in the Group’s ownership
percentage of subsidiaries are accounted for within equity.143 GSK Annual Report 2011
2 Accounting principles and policies Expenditure
continued Expenditure is recognised in respect of goods and services
received when supplied in accordance with contractual terms.
Foreign currency translation
Provision is made when an obligation exists for a future liability in
Foreign currency transactions are booked in the functional respect of a past event and where the amount of the obligation
currency of the Group company at the exchange rate ruling on can be reliably estimated. Manufacturing start-up costs between
the date of transaction. Foreign currency monetary assets and validation and the achievement of normal production are
liabilities are retranslated into the functional currency at rates of expensed as incurred. Advertising and promotion expenditure is
exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. Exchange differences charged to the income statement as incurred. Shipment costs on
are included in the income statement. inter-company transfers are charged to cost of sales; distribution
costs on sales to customers are included in selling, general and
On consolidation, assets and liabilities, including related goodwill,
administrative expenditure.
of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, are
translated into Sterling at rates of exchange ruling at the balance Restructuring costs are recognised and provided for, where
sheet date. The results and cash flows of overseas subsidiaries, appropriate, in respect of the direct expenditure of a business
associates and joint ventures are translated into Sterling using reorganisation where the plans are sufficiently detailed and well
average rates of exchange. advanced, and where appropriate communication to those
affected has been undertaken.
Exchange adjustments arising when the opening net assets and
the profits for the year retained by overseas subsidiaries, Research and development
associates and joint ventures are translated into Sterling, less
Research and development expenditure is charged to the income
exchange differences arising on related foreign currency
statement in the period in which it is incurred. Development
borrowings which hedge the Group’s net investment in these
expenditure is capitalised when the criteria for recognising an
operations, are taken to a separate component of equity.
asset are met, usually when a regulatory filing has been made in
When translating into Sterling the assets, liabilities, results and a major market and approval is considered highly probable.
cash flows of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures Property, plant and equipment used for research and
which are reported in currencies of hyper-inflationary economies, development is capitalised and depreciated in accordance with
adjustments are made where material to reflect current price the Group’s policy.
levels. Any loss on net monetary assets is charged to the Environmental expenditure
consolidated income statement.
Environmental expenditure related to existing conditions resulting
Revenue
from past or current operations and from which no current or
Revenue is recognised in the income statement when goods or future benefit is discernible is charged to the income statement.
services are supplied or made available to external customers The Group recognises its liability on a site-by-site basis when it
against orders received, title and risk of loss is passed to the can be reliably estimated. This liability includes the Group’s
customer, reliable estimates can be made of relevant deductions portion of the total costs and also a portion of other potentially
and all relevant obligations have been fulfilled, such that the responsible parties’ costs when it is probable that they will not be
earnings process is regarded as being complete. able to satisfy their respective shares of the clean-up obligation.
Recoveries of reimbursements are recorded as assets when
Turnover represents net invoice value after the deduction of
virtually certain.
discounts and allowances given and accruals for estimated
future rebates and returns. The methodology and assumptions Legal and other disputes
used to estimate rebates and returns are monitored and adjusted Provision is made for the anticipated settlement costs of legal or
regularly in the light of contractual and legal obligations, other disputes against the Group where an outflow of resources
historical trends, past experience and projected market is considered probable and a reliable estimate can be made of the
conditions. Market conditions are evaluated using wholesaler and likely outcome. In addition, provision is made for legal or other
other third-party analyses, market research data and internally expenses arising from claims received or other disputes. In
generated information. Value added tax and other sales taxes are respect of product liability claims related to certain products,
excluded from revenue. there is sufficient history of claims made and settlements to
Where the Group co-promotes a product and the third party enable management to make a reliable estimate of the provision
records the sale, the Group records its share of revenue as required to cover unasserted claims. In certain cases, an incurred
co-promotion income within turnover. The nature of co- but not reported (IBNR) actuarial technique is used to determine
promotion activities is such that the Group records no costs of this estimate.
sales. Pharmaceutical turnover includes co-promotion revenue of The Group may become involved in legal proceedings, in respect
£221 million (2010 – £294 million; 2009 – £439 million). of which it is not possible to make a reliable estimate of the
Royalty income is recognised in other operating income on an expected financial effect, if any, that could result from ultimate
accruals basis in accordance with the terms of the relevant resolution of the proceedings. In these cases, appropriate
licensing agreements. disclosure about such cases would be included but no provision
would be made. Costs associated with claims made by the Group
against third parties are charged to the income statement as they
are incurred.144 GSK Annual Report 2011
Financial Notes to the financial statements continued
statements
2 Accounting principles and policies On disposal of PP&E, the cost and related accumulated
continued
depreciation and impairments are removed from the financial
statements and the net amount, less any proceeds, is taken to
Pensions and other post-employment benefits the income statement.
The costs of providing pensions under defined benefit schemes Leases
are calculated using the projected unit credit method and spread
Leasing agreements which transfer to the Group substantially all
over the period during which benefit is expected to be derived
the benefits and risks of ownership of an asset are treated as
from the employees’ services, consistent with the advice of
finance leases, as if the asset had been purchased outright. The
qualified actuaries. Pension obligations are measured as the
assets are included in PP&E or computer software and the capital
present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at rates
elements of the leasing commitments are shown as obligations
reflecting the yields of high quality corporate bonds.
under finance leases. Assets held under finance leases are
Pension scheme assets are measured at fair value at the balance depreciated on a basis consistent with similar owned assets or the
sheet date. Actuarial gains and losses, differences between the lease term if shorter. The interest element of the lease rental is
expected and actual returns of assets and the effect of changes included in the income statement. All other leases are operating
in actuarial assumptions, are recognised in the statement of leases and the rental costs are charged to the income statement
comprehensive income in the year in which they arise. on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
The Group’s contributions to defined contribution plans are Goodwill
charged to the income statement as incurred. The costs of other Goodwill is stated at cost less impairments. Goodwill is deemed to
post-employment liabilities are calculated in a similar way to have an indefinite useful life and is tested for impairment annually.
defined benefit pension schemes and spread over the period
during which benefit is expected to be derived from the Where the fair value of the interest acquired in an entity’s assets,
employees’ services, in accordance with the advice of qualified liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the consideration paid,
actuaries. this excess is recognised immediately as a gain in the income
statement.
Employee share plans
Other intangible assets
Incentives in the form of shares are provided to employees under
share option and share award schemes. Intangible assets are stated at cost less provisions for amortisation
and impairments.
The fair values of these options and awards are calculated at their
grant dates using a Black-Scholes option pricing model and Licences, patents, know-how and marketing rights separately
charged to the income statement over the relevant vesting acquired or acquired as part of a business combination are
periods. amortised over their estimated useful lives, generally not
exceeding 20 years, using the straight-line basis, from the time
The Group provides finance to ESOP Trusts to purchase company
they are available for use. The estimated useful lives for
shares on the open market to meet the obligation to provide
determining the amortisation charge take into account patent
shares when employees exercise their options or awards. Costs of
lives, where applicable, as well as the value obtained from
running the ESOP Trusts are charged to the income statement.
periods of non-exclusivity. Asset lives are reviewed, and where
Shares held by the ESOP Trusts are deducted from other reserves.
appropriate adjusted, annually. Contingent milestone payments
A transfer is made between other reserves and retained earnings
are recognised at the point that the contingent event becomes
over the vesting periods of the related share options or awards to
certain. Any development costs incurred by the Group and
reflect the ultimate proceeds receivable from employees on
associated with acquired licences, patents, know-how or
exercise.
marketing rights are written off to the income statement when
Property, plant and equipment incurred, unless the criteria for recognition of an internally
generated intangible asset are met, usually when a regulatory
Property, plant and equipment (PP&E) is stated at the cost of
filing has been made in a major market and approval is
purchase or construction less provisions for depreciation and
considered highly probable.
impairment. Financing costs are capitalised within the cost of
qualifying assets in construction. Acquired brands are valued independently as part of the fair value
of businesses acquired from third parties where the brand has a
Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost less residual value
value which is substantial and long-term and where the brands
of PP&E, excluding freehold land, using the straight-line basis over
either are contractual or legal in nature or can be sold separately
the expected useful life. Residual values and lives are reviewed,
from the rest of the businesses acquired. Brands are amortised
and where appropriate adjusted, annually. The normal expected
over their estimated useful lives of up to 20 years, except where
useful lives of the major categories of PP&E are:
it is considered that the useful economic life is indefinite.
Freehold buildings 20 to 50 years The costs of acquiring and developing computer software for internal
Leasehold land and use and internet sites for external use are capitalised as intangible
buildings Lease term or 20 to 50 years fixed assets where the software or site supports a significant business
Plant and machinery 10 to 20 years system and the expenditure leads to the creation of a durable asset.
Fixtures and equipment 3 to 10 years ERP systems software is amortised over seven to ten years and other
computer software over three to five years.145 GSK Annual Report 2011
2 Accounting principles and policies Trade receivables
continued Trade receivables are carried at original invoice amount less any
provisions for doubtful debts. Provisions are made where there is
Impairment of non-current assets
evidence of a risk of non-payment, taking into account ageing,
The carrying values of all non-current assets are reviewed for previous experience and general economic conditions. When a
impairment, either on a stand-alone basis or as part of a larger trade receivable is determined to be uncollectable it is written off,
cash generating unit, when there is an indication that the assets firstly against any provision available and then to the income
might be impaired. Additionally, goodwill, intangible assets with statement.
indefinite useful lives and intangible assets which are not yet
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously provided for are
available for use are tested for impairment annually. Any provision
credited to the income statement. Long-term receivables are
for impairment is charged to the income statement in the year
discounted where the effect is material.
concerned.
Trade payables
Impairments of goodwill are not reversed. Impairment losses on
other non-current assets are only reversed if there has been a Trade payables are initially recognised at fair value and then held
change in estimates used to determine recoverable amounts and at amortised cost which equates to nominal value. Long-term
only to the extent that the revised recoverable amounts do not payables are discounted where the effect is material.
exceed the carrying values that would have existed, net of Cash and cash equivalents
depreciation or amortisation, had no impairments been
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, current
recognised.
balances with banks and similar institutions and highly liquid
Investments in associates and joint ventures investments generally with maturities of three months or less.
Investments in associates and joint ventures are carried in the They are readily convertible into known amounts of cash and
consolidated balance sheet at the Group’s share of their net assets have an insignificant risk of changes in value.
at date of acquisition and of their post-acquisition retained profits Borrowings
or losses together with any goodwill arising on the acquisition.
All borrowings are initially recorded at the amount of proceeds
Available-for-sale investments received, net of transaction costs. Borrowings are subsequently
Liquid investments and other investments are classified as carried at amortised cost, with the difference between the
available-for-sale investments and are initially recorded at fair proceeds, net of transaction costs, and the amount due on
value plus transaction costs and then remeasured at subsequent redemption being recognised as a charge to the income
reporting dates to fair value. Unrealised gains and losses on statement over the period of the relevant borrowing.
available-for-sale investments are recognised directly in other Taxation
comprehensive income. Impairments arising from the significant
Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid
or prolonged decline in fair value of an equity investment reduce
applying tax rates that have been enacted or substantively
the carrying amount of the asset directly and are charged to the
enacted by the balance sheet date.
income statement.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on
On disposal or impairment of the investments, any gains and
temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and
losses that have been deferred in other comprehensive income
liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements.
are reclassified to the income statement. Dividends on equity
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable
investments are recognised in the income statement when the
that future taxable profits will be available against which the
Group’s right to receive payment is established. Equity
temporary differences can be utilised. Deferred tax is provided on
investments are recorded in non-current assets unless they are
temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries,
expected to be sold within one year.
associates and joint ventures, except where the timing of the
Purchases and sales of equity investments are accounted for on reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled and it is
the trade date and purchases and sales of other available-for-sale probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the
investments are accounted for on settlement date. foreseeable future. Deferred tax is provided using rates of tax that
Inventories have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet
date. Deferred tax liabilities and assets are not discounted.
Inventories are included in the financial statements at the lower
of cost (including raw materials, direct labour, other direct costs
and related production overheads) and net realisable value.
Cost is generally determined on a first in, first out basis.
Pre-launch inventory is held as an asset when there is a high
probability of regulatory approval for the product. Before that
point a provision is made against the carrying value to its
recoverable amount; the provision is then reversed at the point
when a high probability of regulatory approval is determined.146 GSK Annual Report 2011
Financial Notes to the financial statements continued
statements
2 Accounting principles and policies Because the amounts are estimated they may not fully reflect the
continued
final outcome, and the amounts are subject to change dependent
upon, amongst other things, the types of buying group and
Derivative financial instruments and hedging product sales mix.
Derivative financial instruments are used to manage exposure to The level of accrual is reviewed and adjusted regularly in the
market risks. The principal derivative instruments used by GSK are light of contractual and legal obligations, historical trends, past
foreign currency swaps, interest rate swaps and forward foreign experience and projected market conditions. Market conditions
exchange contracts. The Group does not hold or issue derivative are evaluated using wholesaler and other third-party analyses,
financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. market research data and internally generated information.
Future events could cause the assumptions on which the
Derivative financial instruments are classified as held-for-trading
accruals are based to change, which could affect the future
and are carried in the balance sheet at fair value. Derivatives
results of the Group.
designated as hedging instruments are classified on inception as
cash flow hedges, net investment hedges or fair value hedges. Taxation
Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid, and
hedges are recognised in other comprehensive income to the deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between the
extent that the hedges are effective. Ineffective portions are tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts, at
recognised in profit or loss immediately. Amounts deferred in the rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the
other comprehensive income are reclassified to the income balance sheet date.
statement when the hedged item affects profit or loss.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable
Net investment hedges are accounted for in a similar way to that future taxable profits will be available against which the
cash flow hedges. temporary differences can be utilised, based on management’s
assumptions relating to the amounts and timing of future taxable
Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as fair value
profits. Factors affecting the tax charge in future years are set out
hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with the
in Note 14, ‘Taxation’. A 1% change in the Group’s effective tax
changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability.
rate in 2011 would have changed the total tax charge for the year
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not by approximately £77 million.
qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the
The Group has open tax issues with a number of revenue
income statement.
authorities. Where an outflow of funds is believed to be probable
Discounting and a reliable estimate of the outcome of the dispute can be
made, management provides for its best estimate of the liability.
Where the time effect of money is material, balances are
These estimates take into account the specific circumstances of
discounted to current values using appropriate rates of interest.
each dispute and relevant external advice, are inherently
The unwinding of the discounts is recorded in finance income and
judgemental and could change substantially over time as new
finance costs.
facts emerge and each dispute progresses. Details relating to
3 Key accounting judgements significant unresolved disputes are set out in Note 14, ‘Taxation’.
GSK continues to believe that it has made adequate provision for
and estimates
the liabilities likely to arise from open assessments. Where open
In preparing the financial statements, management is required to issues exist the ultimate liability for such matters may vary from
make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts of the amounts provided and is dependent upon the outcome of
assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses reported in the financial negotiations with the relevant tax authorities or, if necessary,
statements. Actual amounts and results could differ from those litigation proceedings.
estimates. The following are considered to be the key accounting Legal and other disputes
judgements and estimates made.
GSK provides for anticipated settlement costs where an outflow
Turnover of resources is considered probable and a reliable estimate may be
Revenue is recognised when title and risk of loss is passed to the made of the likely outcome of the dispute and legal and other
customer, reliable estimates can be made of relevant deductions expenses arising from claims against the Group. These estimates
and all relevant obligations have been fulfilled, such that the take into account the specific circumstances of each dispute and
earnings process is regarded as being complete. relevant external advice, are inherently judgmental and could
change substantially over time as new facts emerge and each
Gross turnover is reduced by rebates, discounts, allowances and
dispute progresses. Details of the status and various uncertainties
product returns given or expected to be given, which vary by
involved in the significant unresolved disputes are set out in Note
product arrangements and buying groups. These arrangements
44, ‘Legal proceedings’.
with purchasing organisations are dependent upon the
submission of claims some time after the initial recognition of the
sale. Accruals are made at the time of sale for the estimated
rebates, discounts or allowances payable or returns to be made,
based on available market information and historical experience.147 GSK Annual Report 2011
3 Key accounting judgements and In each case the valuations indicate sufficient headroom such that
estimates continued a reasonably possible change to key assumptions is unlikely to
result in an impairment of the related goodwill. The assumptions
The company’s Directors, having taken legal advice, have relating to future cash flows and discount rates are based on
established provisions after taking into account the relevant facts business forecasts and are therefore inherently judgemental.
and circumstances of each matter and in accordance with Future events could cause the assumptions used in these
accounting requirements. In respect of product liability claims impairment tests to change with a consequent adverse effect on
related to certain products there is sufficient history of claims the future results of the Group.
made and settlements to enable management to make a reliable
Other intangible assets
estimate of the provision required to cover unasserted claims. In
certain cases, an incurred but not reported (IBNR) actuarial Where intangible assets are acquired by GSK from third parties
technique is used to determine this estimate. The Group may the costs of acquisition are capitalised. Licences to compounds
become involved in legal proceedings, in respect of which it is in development are amortised from the point at which they are
not possible to make a reliable estimate of the expected financial available for use, over their estimated useful lives, which may
effect, if any, that will result from ultimate resolution of the include periods of non-exclusivity. Estimated useful lives are
proceedings. In these cases, appropriate disclosure about such reviewed annually and impairment tests are undertaken if events
cases would be included, but no provision would be made and occur which call into question the carrying values of the assets.
no contingent liability can be quantified. At 31 December 2011 Brands acquired with businesses are capitalised independently
provisions for legal and other disputes amounted to £2.8 billion where they are separable and have an expected life of more than
(2010 – £4.0 billion). one year. Brands are amortised on a straight-line basis over their
estimated useful lives, not exceeding 20 years, except where the
The ultimate liability for legal claims may vary from the amounts end of the useful economic life cannot be foreseen. Where brands
provided and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation are not amortised, they are subject to annual impairment tests.
proceedings, investigations and possible settlement negotiations.
The position could change over time and, therefore, there can be Both initial valuations and valuations for subsequent impairment
no assurance that any losses that result from the outcome of any tests are based on established market multiples or risk-adjusted
legal proceedings will not exceed the amount of the provisions future cash flows over the estimated useful life of the asset,
reported in the Group’s financial statements by a material where limited, discounted using appropriate interest rates as set
amount. out in Note 19, ‘Other intangible assets’. The assumptions relating
to future cash flows, estimated useful lives and discount rates are
Property, plant and equipment
based on business forecasts and are therefore inherently
As set out in Note 17, ‘Property, plant and equipment’ the judgemental. Future events could cause the assumptions used in
carrying values of property, plant and equipment are tested for these impairment reviews to change with a consequent adverse
impairment when there is an indication that the values of the effect on the future results of the Group.
assets might be impaired. Impairment is determined by reference
Pensions and other post-employment benefits
to the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use,
measured by assessing risk-adjusted future cash flows over the The costs of providing pensions and other post-employment
estimated useful life of the asset, discounted using appropriate benefits are charged to the income statement in accordance with
interest rates. The ranges of estimated useful lives applied for IAS 19 ‘Employee benefits’ over the period during which benefit
each category of property, plant and equipment are set out in is derived from the employee’s services. The costs are assessed on
Note 2, ‘Accounting principles and policies’. The assumptions the basis of assumptions selected by management. These
relating to future cash flows, estimated useful lives and discount assumptions include future earnings and pension increases,
rates are based on business forecasts and are therefore inherently discount rates, expected long term rates of return on assets and
judgemental. Given the large number of individual items of mortality rates, and are disclosed in Note 28, ‘Pensions and other
property, plant and equipment, it is not considered likely that a post-employment benefits’.
reasonably possible change in the assumptions applied in the The expected long term rates of return on bonds are determined
impairment test of any one item would lead to a material adverse based on the portfolio mix of index-linked, government and
effect on the future results of the Group. However, future events corporate bonds. An equity risk premium is added to this
could cause the assumptions used in these impairment tests to for equities.
change, with a consequent adverse effect on the future results
Discount rates are derived from AA rated corporate bond yields
of the Group.
except in countries where there is no deep market in corporate
Goodwill bonds where government bond yields are used. Sensitivity
Goodwill arising on business combinations is capitalised and analysis is provided in Note 28, ‘Pensions and other post-
allocated to an appropriate cash generating unit. It is deemed to employment benefits’, but a 0.25% reduction in the discount
have an indefinite life and so is not amortised. rate would lead to an increase in the net pension deficit of
approximately £500 million but no increase in the annual pension
Annual impairment tests of the relevant cash generating units are
cost. The selection of different assumptions could affect the
performed. Impairment tests are based on established market
future results of the Group.
multiples or risk-adjusted future cash flows discounted using
appropriate interest rates. The assumptions used in these
impairment tests are set out in Note 18, ‘Goodwill’.148 GSK Annual Report 2011
Financial Notes to the financial statements continued
statements
4 New accounting requirements An amendment to IAS 19 ‘Employee benefits’ was issued in June
2011 and will be implemented by GSK from 1 January 2013. The
The following new and amended accounting standards and IFRIC amendment eliminates the ability to defer the recognition of gains
interpretations have been issued by the IASB and are likely to and losses (the ‘corridor’ method), requires remeasurements to be
affect future Annual Reports, although, in their current forms, presented in other comprehensive income, requires the funding
none is expected to have a material impact on the results or cost to be calculated on the net defined benefit liability and
financial position of the Group. makes several other minor accounting and disclosure changes.
An amendment to IFRS 7 ‘Disclosures – Transfers of financial An amendment to IFRS 7 ‘Disclosures – Offsetting financial assets
assets’ was issued in October 2010 and will be implemented by and financial liabilities’ was issued in December 2011 and will be
GSK from 1 January 2012. The amendment requires additional implemented by GSK from 1 January 2013. The amendment
disclosures regarding the risk exposures relating to transfers of requires additional disclosures where financial assets and financial
financial assets. liabilities are offset in the balance sheet.
The IASB’s annual improvements project was published in May An amendment to IAS 32 ‘Offsetting financial assets and financial
2010 and most of the changes are effective from 1 January 2011. liabilities’ was issued in December 2011 and will be implemented
The project makes minor amendments to a number of Standards by GSK from 1 January 2014. The amendment provides additional
in areas including consolidation, business combinations and guidance on when financial assets and financial liabilities may be
financial instruments. offset.
The following new standards and interpretations have not yet IFRS 9 ‘Financial instruments’ was first issued in November
been endorsed by the EU: 2009 and amended in October 2010 and will be implemented
by GSK from 1 January 2015. The Standard will eventually
An amendment to IAS 12 ‘Deferred tax: recovery of underlying
replace IAS 39 and covers the classification, measurement and
assets’ was issued in December 2010 and will be implemented by
derecognition of financial assets and financial liabilities. The IASB
GSK from 1 January 2012. The amendment requires that the
intends to expand IFRS 9 to add new requirements for impairment
deferred tax on non-depreciable assets measured using the
and hedge accounting and for it to become a complete
revaluation model should be calculated on a sale basis.
replacement of IAS 39 in due course.
IFRS 10 ‘Consolidated financial statements’ was issued in May
5 Exchange rates
2011 and replaces the parts of IAS 27 ‘Separate financial
statements’ that previously dealt with consolidated financial
The Group uses the average of exchange rates prevailing during
statements and SIC 12 ‘Consolidation – Special purpose entities’.
the period to translate the results and cash flows of overseas
It will be implemented by GSK from 1 January 2013. The Standard
subsidiaries, joint ventures and associated undertakings into
uses control as the single basis for determining whether or not an
Sterling and period end rates to translate the net assets of those
entity should be consolidated.
undertakings. The currencies which most influence these
IFRS 11 ‘Joint arrangements’ was issued in May 2011 and will be translations and the relevant exchange rates were:
implemented by GSK from 1 January 2013. The Standard requires
an entity to report its share of assets, liabilities revenue and 2011 2010 2009
Average rates:
expenses of a joint operation in its financial statements and to
US$/£ 1.61 1.55 1.56
apply the equity method of accounting to joint ventures in its
Euro/£ 1.15 1.16 1.12
consolidated financial statements.
Yen/£ 128 136 146
IFRS 12 ‘Disclosures of interests in other entities’ was issued in
May 2011 and will be implemented by GSK from 1 January 2013. Period end rates:
The Standard requires disclosures related to the financial effects US$/£ 1.55 1.56 1.61
of and risks associated with an entity’s investments in subsidiaries, Euro/£ 1.20 1.17 1.13
joint arrangements, associates and unconsolidated structured Yen/£ 120 127 150
entities.
IFRS 13 ‘Fair value measurement’ was issued in May 2011 and
will be implemented by GSK from 1 January 2013. The Standard
provides guidance on fair value measurement and introduces
consistent disclosure requirements for those situations where
another standard permits or requires fair value measurement.
An amendment to IAS 1 ‘Presentation of items of other
comprehensive income’ was issued in June 2011 and will be
implemented by GSK from 1 January 2013. This amendment
changes some of the required disclosures in the financial
statements, particularly in respect of the statement of
comprehensive income.149 GSK Annual Report 2011
6 Segment information
GSK has revised its segmental information disclosures to reflect changes in the internal reporting structures with effect from
1 January 2011. The Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines business in Japan is now shown as a separate segment. Comparative
information has been restated on a consistent basis.
GSK’s operating segments are being reported based on the financial information provided to the Chief Executive Officer and the
responsibilities of the Corporate Executive Team (CET). Individual members of the CET are responsible for each geographic segment
of the Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines business, ViiV Healthcare and the Consumer Healthcare business as a whole, respectively.
R&D investment is essential for the sustainability of the pharmaceutical businesses. However, for segment reporting, the USA,
Europe, Emerging Markets, Asia Pacific and Japan Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines operating profits exclude allocations of globally
funded R&D as well as central costs, principally corporate functions and unallocated manufacturing costs. GSK’s management
reporting process allocates intra-Group profit on a product sale to the market in which that sale is recorded, and the profit
analyses below have been presented on that basis.
Other trading and unallocated pharmaceuticals and vaccines includes Canada, Puerto Rico, central vaccine tender sales and
contract manufacturing sales, together with costs such as vaccines R&D, central dermatology costs and central manufacturing
costs not attributed to other segments.
The Pharmaceuticals R&D segment is the responsibility of the Chairman, Research & Development and is reported as a
separate segment.
Corporate and other unallocated costs and disposal profits include corporate functions, costs for legal matters, fair value
movements on financial instruments and investments and profits on global asset disposals.
2010 2009
2011 (restated) (restated)
Turnover by segment £m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines
USA 7,035 7,648 8,578
Europe 5,767 6,546 7,087
Emerging Markets 3,680 3,561 2,905
Asia Pacific 1,244 1,143 1,018
Japan 2,082 1,959 1,605
ViiV Healthcare 1,569 1,566 1,605
Other trading and unallocated 815 962 901
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines turnover 22,192 23,385 23,699
Consumer Healthcare turnover 5,195 5,007 4,669
27,387 28,392 28,368
2010 2009
2011 (restated) (restated)
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines turnover by therapeutic area £m £m £m
Respiratory 7,298 7,238 6,977
Anti-virals 807 1,086 2,416
Central nervous system 1,721 1,753 1,870
Cardiovascular and urogenital 2,740 2,570 2,298
Metabolic 362 678 1,181
Anti-bacterials 1,390 1,396 1,457
Oncology and emesis 693 688 629
Vaccines 3,497 4,326 3,706
Dermatologicals 1,087 1,087 707
ViiV Healthcare (HIV) 1,569 1,566 1,605
Other 1,028 997 853
22,192 23,385 23,699
2011 2010 2009
Consumer Healthcare turnover by category
£m £m £m
OTC medicines 2,453 2,458 2,339
Oral healthcare 1,717 1,596 1,479
Nutritional healthcare 1,025 953 851
5,195 5,007 4,669150 GSK Annual Report 2011
Financial Notes to the financial statements continued
statements
6 Segment information continued
During 2011, US pharmaceuticals and ViiV Healthcare made sales to three wholesalers of approximately £2,360 million
(2010 – £2,561 million; 2009 – £2,760 million), £2,215 million (2010 – £2,412 million; 2009 – £2,710 million) and £1,374 million
(2010 – £1,642 million; 2009 – £1,680 million) respectively, after allocating final-customer discounts to the wholesalers.
2010 2009
Segment profit 2011 (restated) (restated)
£m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines
USA 4,866 5,043 5,933
Europe 3,183 3,743 3,993
Emerging Markets 1,151 1,264 950
Asia Pacific 567 503 410
Japan 1,246 1,234 941
ViiV Healthcare 824 851 1,071
Pharmaceuticals R&D (2,954) (3,105) (3,082)
Other trading and unallocated costs (796) (783) (705)
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines operating profit 8,087 8,750 9,511
Consumer Healthcare operating profit 1,123 1,044 930
Segment profit 9,210 9,794 10,441
Corporate and other unallocated costs and disposal profits (813) (4,666) (1,184)
Operating profit before major restructuring 8,397 5,128 9,257
Major restructuring (590) (1,345) (832)
Total operating profit 7,807 3,783 8,425
Finance income 90 116 70
Finance costs (799) (831) (783)
Profit on disposal of interest in associate 585 8 115
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures 15 81 64
Profit before taxation 7,698 3,157 7,891
Taxation (2,240) (1,304) (2,222)
Profit after taxation for the year 5,458 1,853 5,669
2010 2009
Depreciation and amortisation by segment 2011 (restated) (restated)
£m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines
USA 94 101 116
Europe 32 31 24
Emerging Markets 66 51 29
Asia Pacific 16 14 7
Japan 13 11 8
ViiV Healthcare 33 29 5
Pharmaceuticals R&D 228 262 280
Other trading and unallocated 780 809 789
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines depreciation and amortisation 1,262 1,308 1,258
Consumer Healthcare depreciation and amortisation 62 66 63
Segment depreciation and amortisation 1,324 1,374 1,321
Corporate and other unallocated depreciation and amortisation 99 85 80
Depreciation and amortisation before major restructuring 1,423 1,459 1,401
Major restructuring – 220 161
Total depreciation and amortisation 1,423 1,679 1,562151 GSK Annual Report 2011
6 Segment information continued
2010 2009
PP&E, intangible asset and goodwill impairment by segment 2011 (restated) (restated)
£m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines
USA 1 – 1
Europe 1 1 7
Emerging Markets – 1 –
Asia Pacific – 1 –
Japan 1 1 1
ViiV Healthcare 29 – –
Pharmaceuticals R&D 27 134 118
Other trading and unallocated 101 129 124
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines impairment 160 267 251
Consumer Healthcare impairment 3 5 1
Segment impairment 163 272 252
Corporate and other unallocated impairment 9 4 23
Impairment before major restructuring 172 276 275
Major restructuring 131 89 57
Total impairment 303 365 332
2010 2009
PP&E and intangible asset impairment reversals by segment 2011 (restated) (restated)
£m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines
USA – – (1)
Europe – – –
Emerging Markets – – –
Asia Pacific – – –
Japan – – –
ViiV Healthcare – – –
Pharmaceuticals R&D (3) (1) (1)
Other trading and unallocated (32) (4) (9)
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines impairment reversals (35) (5) (11)
Consumer Healthcare impairment reversals – – –
Segment impairment reversals (35) (5) (11)
Corporate and other unallocated impairment reversals – – –
Impairment reversals before major restructuring (35) (5) (11)
Major restructuring – (14) –
Total impairment reversals (35) (19) (11)152 GSK Annual Report 2011
Financial Notes to the financial statements continued
statements
6 Segment information continued
2010
2011 (restated)
Net assets by segment
£m £m
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines
USA 580 616
Europe 895 1,031
Emerging Markets 1,998 1,840
Asia Pacific 401 463
Japan 525 594
ViiV Healthcare 754 832
Pharmaceuticals R&D 1,044 1,656
Other trading and unallocated 12,842 13,320
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines net operating assets 19,039 20,352
Consumer Healthcare net operating assets 2,430 2,972
Segment net operating assets 21,469 23,324
Corporate and other unallocated net operating assets (5,311) (6,682)
Net operating assets 16,158 16,642
Net debt (9,003) (8,859)
Investments in associates and joint ventures 560 1,081
Derivative financial instruments (22) (3)
Current and deferred taxation 469 868
Assets held for sale 665 16
Net assets 8,827 9,745
The other trading and unallocated pharmaceuticals segment includes assets for the centrally managed pharmaceutical and vaccine
manufacturing operations, the depreciation on which, totalling £599 million (2010 – £616 million; 2009 – £618 million) is recovered
through the standard cost of product charged to businesses.
Geographical information
The UK is regarded as being the Group’s country of domicile.
2010 2009
2011 (restated) (restated)
Turnover by location of customer
£m £m £m
UK 1,606 1,820 1,864
USA 8,687 9,345 10,315
Rest of World 17,094 17,227 16,189
External turnover 27,387 28,392 28,368
Turnover by location of subsidiary 2011 2010 2009
£m £m £m
UK 3,850 4,965 4,469
USA 11,797 13,072 13,711
Rest of World 20,986 21,220 19,661
Turnover including inter-segment turnover 36,633 39,257 37,841
UK 1,557 2,032 1,556
USA 3,140 3,717 3,395
Rest of World 4,549 5,116 4,522
Inter-segment turnover 9,246 10,865 9,473
UK 2,293 2,933 2,913
USA 8,657 9,355 10,316
Rest of World 16,437 16,104 15,139
External turnover 27,387 28,392 28,368153 GSK Annual Report 2011
6 Segment information continued
Operating profit by location 2011 2010 2009
£m £m £m
UK 1,063 1,033 2,608
USA 3,298 420 2,337
Rest of World 3,446 2,330 3,480
Total operating profit 7,807 3,783 8,425
2010
2011
(restated)
Net operating assets by location £m
£m
UK 2,927 3,177
USA 2,085 4,235
Rest of World 11,146 9,230
Net operating assets 16,158 16,642
2010
2011 (restated)
Non-current assets by location
£m £m
UK 5,041 5,066
USA 5,881 6,972
Rest of World 10,101 10,372
Non-current assets 21,023 22,410
Non-current assets by location excludes amounts relating to other investments, deferred tax assets, derivative financial instruments,
pension assets, amounts receivable under insurance contracts and certain other non-current receivables.
7 Major restructuring programme
In October 2007, the Board approved the implementation of a detailed formal plan for, and GSK announced, a significant new
Operational Excellence restructuring programme to improve the effectiveness and productivity of its operations. A second formal
plan, representing a significant expansion of the Operational Excellence programme was approved by the Board and announced in
February 2009. A further expansion was approved by the Board and announced in February 2010. This restructuring programme,
comprising these detailed formal plans, covers all areas of GSK’s business, including manufacturing, selling, R&D and infrastructure.
Further savings have been identified during the year and with an estimated total cost increased to approximately £4.85 billion, the
expanded programme is now expected to deliver annual pre-tax savings of approximately £2.8 billion by the time it is substantially
complete in 2014.
Approximately 82% of the programme costs were incurred by 31 December 2011 and approximately 13% are expected to be
incurred in 2012, with the majority of the balance being incurred in 2013. In total approximately 75% of these costs are expected to
be cash expenditures and 25% expected to be asset write-downs. Uncertainties exist over the exact amount and timing of cash
outflows as a result of potential future exchange rate fluctuations and as many elements of the restructuring programme are subject
to employee consultation procedures, making it difficult to predict with precision when these procedures will be completed. However,
the majority of the remaining cash payments are expected to be made in 2012 and 2013.
Of the total restructuring costs of £590 million incurred in 2011, £530 million was incurred under the Operational Excellence
programme in the following areas:
• cost saving projects in R&D, focused primarily on the simplification and streamlining of support infrastructure, including some site
rationalisations, principally the Clinical Imaging Centre, Hammersmith and Harlow in the UK and Verona in Italy;
• the adoption of more customised sales approaches, leading to staff reductions in a number of sales forces, principally in Italy;
• the closure of a number of manufacturing sites, principally in the USA and Ireland, giving rise to asset write-downs and staf f
reductions;
• the rationalisation of the Consumer Healthcare business; and
• projects to simplify or eliminate processes, leading to staff reductions in administrative and support functions.
The remaining costs of £60 million were incurred during the year under the restructuring programme related to the integration of
the Stiefel Laboratories, Inc. business in the USA, following its acquisition in July 2009.154 GSK Annual Report 2011
Financial Notes to the financial statements continued
statements
7 Major restructuring programme continued
The analysis of the costs incurred under these programmes in 2011, 2010 and 2009 is as follows:
Asset Staff Other
impairment reductions costs Total
2011 £m £m £m £m
Cost of sales (15) (3) (55) (73)
Selling, general and administration (65) (235) (97) (397)
Research and development (51) (22) (24) (97)
Other operating income – – (23) (23)
Effect on operating profit (131) (260) (199) (590)
Net finance expense (2)
Effect on profit before taxation (592)
Effect on taxation 114
Effect on earnings (478)
Asset Staff Other
impairment reductions costs Total
2010 £m £m £m £m
Cost of sales (14) (58) (115) (187)
Selling, general and administration (17) (503) (145) (665)
Research and development (44) (117) (332) (493)
Effect on operating profit (75) (678) (592) (1,345)
Net finance expense (3)
Effect on profit before taxation (1,348)
Effect on taxation 240
Effect on earnings (1,108)
Asset Staff Other
impairment reductions costs Total
2009 £m £m £m £m
Cost of sales (41) (112) (132) (285)
Selling, general and administration (1) (337) (54) (392)
Research and development (15) (68) (72) (155)
Effect on operating profit (57) (517) (258) (832)
Net finance expense (3)
Effect on profit before taxation (835)
Effect on taxation 221
Effect on earnings (614)
2011 2010 2009
The costs of the major restructuring programmes have arisen as follows: £m £m £m
Increase in provision for major restructuring programmes (see Note 29) (249) (837) (487)
Amount of provision reversed unused (see Note 29) 11 40 15
Impairment losses recognised (131) (75) (57)
Foreign exchange gain recognised on liquidation of subsidiary – – 44
Other non-cash charges (48) (240) (168)
Other cash costs (173) (233) (179)
Net finance expense (2) (3) (3)
Effect on profit before taxation (592) (1,348) (835)
Asset impairments of £131 million (2010 – £75 million, 2009 – £57 million) and other non-cash charges totalling £48 million
(2010 – £240 million, 2009 – £124 million) are non-cash items, principally accelerated depreciation where asset lives have been
shortened as a result of the major restructuring programmes. All other charges have been or will be settled in cash and include
the termination of leases, site closure costs, consultancy and project management fees.
These restructuring costs are reported in the major restructuring column of the Income statement on page 136. Other costs
resulting from minor restructuring activity initiated prior to October 2007 amounted to £4 million (2010 – £5 million income,
2009 – £4 million cost). These amounts are reported within ‘Results before major restructuring’.155 GSK Annual Report 2011
8 Other operating income
2011 2010 2009
£m £m £m
Royalty income 309 296 296
Milestone income 10 7 90
Impairment of equity investments (78) (65) (135)
Disposal of equity investments 10 17 40
Disposal of businesses, other assets and legal settlements 322 227 539
Gain recognised on creation of ViiV Healthcare – – 296
Fair value adjustments on derivative financial instruments 10 (6) (5)
Other income 4 17 14
587 493 1,135
Royalty and milestone income is principally a core of recurring income from the out-licensing of intellectual property. Disposal of
businesses, other assets and legal settlements includes costs of £23 million associated with the proposed divestment of the non-core
Consumer Healthcare brands. These costs are reported in the Consolidated income statement under the major restructuring programme.
9 Operating profit
2011 2010 2009
The following items have been included in operating profit:
£m £m £m
Employee costs (Note 10) 6,751 6,994 7,167
Advertising 910 971 923
Distribution costs 432 413 363
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 893 1,146 1,130
Impairment of property, plant and equipment, net of reversals 155 186 149
Amortisation of intangible assets 530 533 432
Impairment of intangible assets and goodwill, net of reversals 113 160 172
Net foreign exchange losses 25 60 163
Inventories:
Cost of inventories included in cost of sales 6,768 7,014 6,743
Write-down of inventories 85 305 276
Reversal of prior year write-down of inventories (62) (66) (116)
Operating lease rentals:
Minimum lease payments 139 136 160
Contingent rents 11 14 13
Sub-lease payments 4 7 6
Fees payable to the company’s auditor and its associates in relation to the Group (see below) 23.7 22.2 24.1
The reversals of prior year write-downs of inventories principally arise from the reassessment of usage or demand expectations prior to
inventory expiration.
2011 2010 2009
Fees payable to the company’s auditor and its associates:
£m £m £m
Audit of parent company and consolidated financial statements 2.0 2.0 2.0
Audit of accounts of the Group’s UK and overseas subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 11.9 11.2 10.2
Other assurance services, pursuant to legislation, including attestation under s.404
of Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 3.4 3.3 3.0
Audit and assurance services 17.3 16.5 15.2
Other tax services 2.7 2.5 7.3
All other services, including regulatory, compliance and treasury related services 3.7 3.2 1.6
23.7 22.2 24.1
At 31 December 2011, the amount due to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and its associates for fees yet to be invoiced was £6.1 million,
comprising statutory audit £5.3 million and taxation and other services £0.8 million.
In addition to the above, fees paid in respect of the GSK pension schemes were:
2011 2010 2009
£m £m £m
Audit 0.4 0.4 0.4
Other services – – –156 GSK Annual Report 2011
Financial Notes to the financial statements continued
statements
10 Employee costs
2011 2010 2009
£m £m £m
Wages and salaries 5,312 5,079 5,387
Social security costs 641 600 661
Pension and other post-employment costs, including augmentations (Note 28) 341 554 491
Cost of share-based incentive plans 198 179 179
Severance and other costs from integration and restructuring activities 259 582 449
6,751 6,994 7,167
The Group provides benefits to employees, commensurate with local practice in individual countries, including, in some markets,
healthcare insurance, subsidised car schemes and personal life assurance.
The cost of share-based incentive plans is analysed as follows:
2011 2010 2009
£m £m £m
Share Value Plan 146 119 134
Performance Share Plan 23 21 2
Share Option plans 20 27 36
Other plans 9 12 7
198 179 179
The average number of persons employed by the Group (including Directors) during the year was:
2011 2010 2009
Number Number Number
Manufacturing 30,939 30,883 31,467
Selling, general and administration 53,826 53,778 53,183
Research and development 12,636 13,824 14,204
97,401 98,485 98,854
The average number of Group employees excludes temporary and contract staff. The numbers of Group employees at the end of
each financial year are given in the financial record on page 234. The average number of persons employed by GlaxoSmithKline plc
in 2011 was nil (2010 – nil).
The compensation of the Directors and Senior Management (members of the CET) in aggregate, was as follows:
2011 2010 2009
£m £m £m
Wages and salaries 24 20 23
Social security costs 2 2 1
Pension and other post-employment costs 3 3 3
Cost of share-based incentive plans 11 11 4
40 36 31
11 Finance income
2011 2010 2009
£m £m £m
Interest income arising from:
cash and cash equivalents 63 58 46
available-for-sale investments 7 8 15
derivatives at fair value through profit or loss – 24 (5)
loans and receivables 15 13 13
Realised gains on liquid investments 5 – –
Fair value movements on derivatives at fair value through profit or loss – 13 1
90 116 70
All derivatives at fair value through profit or loss other than designated and effective hedging instruments (see Note 41, ‘Financial
instruments and related disclosures’) are classified as held-for-trading financial instruments under IAS 39. Interest income arising
from derivatives at fair value through profit or loss relates to swap interest income.157 GSK Annual Report 2011
12 Finance costs
2011 2010 2009
£m £m £m
Interest expense arising on:
financial liabilities at amortised cost (718) (767) (790)
derivatives at fair value through profit or loss (26) – 20
Fair value hedges:
fair value movements on derivatives designated as hedging instruments (12) 26 (37)
fair value adjustments on hedged items 11 (27) 38
Fair value movements on other derivatives at fair value through profit or loss (15) (17) (2)
Reclassification of cash flow hedge from other comprehensive income – (3) (1)
Unwinding of discounts on provisions (12) (18) (11)
Movements on amounts owed to non-controlling interests (7) – –
Other finance expense (20) (25) –
(799) (831) (783)
All derivatives at fair value through profit or loss except designated and effective hedging instruments are classified as held-for-
trading financial instruments under IAS 39. Interest expense arising on derivatives at fair value through profit or loss relates to swap
interest expense.
13 Associates and joint ventures
2011 2010 2009
£m £m £m
Associates:
Share of after tax profits of Quest Diagnostics Inc. 9 79 73
Share of after tax profits of Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Limited 41 32 2
Share of after tax losses of other associates (4) (7) (3)
46 104 72
Share of after tax losses of joint ventures (31) (23) (8)
15 81 64
Share of turnover of joint ventures 14 18 13
Sales to joint ventures and associates 104 90 26
Summarised income statement information in respect of the Group’s associates is set out below:
2011 2010 2009
£m £m £m
Total turnover:
Quest Diagnostics Inc. 440 4,754 4,779
Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Limited 1,164 1,171 67
Others 112 65 7
1,716 5,990 4,853
Total profit:
Quest Diagnostics Inc. 36 465 467
Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Limited 231 233 12
Others (21) (23) (14)
246 675 465
The results of Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Limited included in the summarised income statement information above represent the
estimated earnings of the Aspen group in the year.
The results of Quest Diagnostics Inc. in the summarised income statement above represent the estimated earnings of Quest Diagnostics
Inc. to 1 February 2011.
On 1 February 2011, GSK sold its entire shareholding in Quest Diagnostics Inc.158 GSK Annual Report 2011
Financial Notes to the financial statements continued
statements
14 Taxation
2011 2010 2009
Taxation charge based on profits for the year
£m £m £m
UK corporation tax at the UK statutory rate 647 82 600
Less double taxation relief (164) (156) (183)
483 (74) 417
Overseas taxation 1,603 1,496 1,997
Current taxation 2,086 1,422 2,414
Deferred taxation 154 (118) (192)
2,240 1,304 2,222
2011 2010 2009
Reconciliation of the taxation rate on Group profits
% % %
UK statutory rate of taxation 26.5 28.0 28.0
Differences in overseas taxation rates 2.5 8.1 3.5
Benefit of special tax status (1.4) (2.6) (1.8)
R&D credits (1.6) (3.7) (1.9)
Inter-company stock profit (0.7) 1.7 0.5
Impact of share based payments (0.2) 1.4 0.1
Tax on profit of associates – (1.2) (0.2)
(Reduction)/increase in tax rate for (recognised)/unrecognised losses (0.4) 5.5 0.6
Other permanent differences (0.3) 6.2 (0.9)
Prior year items 1.7 (6.5) 0.1
Disposal of associate 1.7 – –
Tax on unremitted earnings 1.1 – –
Restructuring 0.2 4.4 0.2
Tax rate 29.1 41.3 28.2
The disposal of associate undertaking reflects the impact of the disposal of the shareholding in Quest Diagnostics Inc.
The higher tax rate for the year ended 31 December 2010 reflects the impact of the relatively low tax relief arising on the £4 billion
of legal provisions charged during the year and the non-deductability of costs associated with certain site closures, partly offset by
the settlement of certain historical tax matters. The percentages within the above reconciliation are exacerbated by the relatively low
reported profit in 2010.
The Group operates in countries where the tax rate differs from the UK tax rate. The impact of these overseas taxes on the overall
rate of tax is shown above. Profits arising from certain operations in Singapore are accorded special status and are taxed at reduced
rates compared with the normal rates of tax in that territory. The effect of this reduction in the taxation charge increased earnings
per share by 2.1p in 2011, 1.6p in 2010 and 2.8p in 2009. The Group is required under IFRS to create a deferred tax asset in respect
of unrealised inter-company profit arising on inventory held by the Group at the year-end by applying the tax rate of the country in
which the inventory is held (rather than the tax rate of the country where the profit was originally made and the tax paid, which is
the practice under UK and US GAAP). As a result of this difference in accounting treatment the Group tax rate on current period
inter-company profit under IFRS decreased by 0.7% in 2011 (2010 – 1.7% increase; 2009 – 0.5% increase) arising from changes in
the location of work-in-progress and finished goods.
2011 2010 2009
Tax on items charged to equity and statement of comprehensive income £m £m £m
Current taxation
Share based payments 3 – 1
Foreign exchange movements – – 19
3 – 20
Deferred taxation
Share based payments 47 2 13
Defined benefit plans 268 1 183
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges – 1 2
Fair value movements on available-for-sale investments 23 (28) (11)
338 (24) 187
Total credit/(charge) to equity and statement of comprehensive income 341 (24) 207
All of the above items have been charged to the statement of comprehensive income except for tax on share based payments.159 GSK Annual Report 2011
14 Taxation continued
Issues relating to taxation
The integrated nature of the Group’s worldwide operations involves significant investment in research and strategic manufacture at
a limited number of locations, with consequential cross-border supply routes into numerous end-markets. This gives rise to
complexity and delay in negotiations with revenue authorities as to the profits on which individual Group companies are liable to
tax. Resolution of such issues is a continuing fact of life for GSK.
During the year GSK agreed and settled further open years with major tax authorities up to and including 2009. In January 2012, the
Supreme Court of Canada heard an appeal by GSK and the Canadian Revenue Agency against a Federal Court of Appeal judgement
in respect of GSK’s transfer pricing in the early 1990’s and judgement is awaited.
GSK continues to believe that it has made adequate provision for the liabilities likely to arise from periods which are open and not yet
agreed by tax authorities. The ultimate liability for such matters may vary from the amounts provided and is dependent upon the
outcome of agreements with relevant tax authorities or litigation where appropriate.
Provision for deferred tax liabilities of £84 million have been made in respect of taxation that would arise on the distribution of profits
retained by certain overseas subsidiaries. No further provision is made, on the grounds that the Group is able to control the timing of the
reversal of remaining temporary differences and it is probable that they will not reverse in the forseeable future. The aggregate amount
of these unremitted profits at the balance sheet date was approximately £28 billion (2010 – £30 billion). The unprovided deferred tax on
unremitted earnings at 31 December 2011 is estimated to be £500 million (2010 – £500 million), which relates to taxes payable on
repatriation and dividend withholding taxes levied by overseas tax jurisdictions. UK legislation relating to company distributions provides
for exemption from tax for most repatriated profits, subject to certain exceptions.
Movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities
Pensions & Manu- Share Other
Accelerated Intra- other post Legal facturing Stock option net Offset
capital group employment Tax & other restruct- valuation and award temporary within
allowances Intangibles profit benefits losses disputes uring adjustments schemes differences countries Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Deferred tax assets at
1 January 2011 49 224 1,127 1,023 98 425 117 29 93 914 (1,533) 2,566
Deferred tax liabilities at
1 January 2011 (512) (1,563) – – – – – (51) – (114) 1,533 (707)
At 1 January 2011 (463) (1,339) 1,127 1,023 98 425 117 (22) 93 800 – 1,859
Exchange adjustments 2 (2) 8 4 5 (7) (1) – 3 14 – 26
(Charge)/credit to income
statement (60) 129 62 (46) 17 (315) (40) 137 24 (62) – (154)
Credit to equity – – – – – – – – 47 – – 47
Credit to statement of
comprehensive income – – – 268 – – – – – 23 – 291
Acquisitions – (42) – – – – – – – – – (42)
At 31 December 2011 (521) (1,254) 1,197 1,249 120 103 76 115 167 775 – 2,027
Deferred tax assets at
31 December 2011 58 338 1,197 1,249 120 194 79 132 167 893 (1,578) 2,849
Deferred tax liabilities at
31 December 2011 (579) (1,592) – – – (91) (3) (17) – (118) 1,578 (822)
(521) (1,254) 1,197 1,249 120 103 76 115 167 775 – 2,027
The deferred tax credit to income relating to changes in tax rates is £11 million (2010 – £11 million, 2009 – £9 million). All other
deferred tax movements arise from the origination and reversal of temporary differences. Other net temporary differences mainly
include accrued expenses for which a tax deduction is only available on a paid basis.160 GSK Annual Report 2011
Financial Notes to the financial statements continued
statements
14 Taxation continued
Tax losses Recognised Unrecognised
2011 2010 2011 2010
£m £m £m £m
Trading losses expiring:
Within 10 years 199 163 303 14
In more than 10 years 217 329 494 529
Available indefinitely 81 1 4,426 5,302
At 31 December 497 493 5,223 5,845
Deferred tax asset 120 98 – –
In addition, the Group had capital losses at 31 December 2011 of approximately £4.3 billion (2010 – £4.3 billion) in respect of which no
deferred tax asset has been recognised. Deferred tax assets are recognised where it is probable that future taxable profit will be
available to utilise losses.
Factors affecting the tax charge in future years
As a global organisation there are many factors which could affect the future effective tax rate of the Group. The mix of profits across
different territories, transfer pricing and other disputes with tax authorities and the location of research and development activity can
all have a significant impact on the Group’s effective tax rate.
Changes to tax legislation in territories where GSK has business operations could also impact the Group’s effective tax rate. The UK
Government has proposed some significant changes to the UK taxation system. In March 2011 the UK Government announced a
phased reduction in the main rate of corporation tax from 28% to 23% over 4 years from April 2011. The deferred tax movements
reflect the reduction in the UK tax rate from 28% to 26% with effect from 1 April 2011, and to 25% with effect from 1 April 2012,
as these have been substantively enacted. In December 2011 the UK Government published draft legislation to introduce a ‘patent box’
regime which, if enacted, will apply a reduced rate of corporation tax to income from patents with effect from April 2013. The UK
Government also continues to consult with business on draft legislation relating to controlled foreign companies, which is expected
to affect GSK from 1 January 2013.
15 Earnings per share
2011 2010 2009
pence pence pence
Basic earnings per share 104.6 32.1 109.1
Adjustment for major restructuring 9.5 21.8 12.1
Basic earnings per share before major restructuring 114.1 53.9 121.2
Diluted earnings per share 103.2 31.9 108.2
Adjustment for major restructuring 9.3 21.6 12.1
Diluted earnings per share before major restructuring 112.5 53.5 120.3
Basic and adjusted earnings per share have been calculated by dividing the profit attributable to shareholders by the weighted
average number of shares in issue during the period after deducting shares held by the ESOP Trusts and Treasury shares. The
trustees have waived their rights to dividends on the shares held by the ESOP Trusts.
Adjusted earnings per share is calculated using results before major restructuring earnings. The calculation of results before major
restructuring is described in Note 1 ‘Presentation of the financial statements’.
Diluted earnings per share have been calculated after adjusting the weighted average number of shares used in the basic calculation
to assume the conversion of all potentially dilutive shares. A potentially dilutive share forms part of the employee share schemes
where its exercise price is below the average market price of GSK shares during the period and any performance conditions
attaching to the scheme have been met at the balance sheet date.
The numbers of shares used in calculating basic and diluted earnings per share are reconciled below.
2011 2010 2009
Weighted average number of shares in issue
millions millions millions
Basic 5,028 5,085 5,069
Dilution for share options and awards 71 43 39
Diluted 5,099 5,128 5,108161 GSK Annual Report 2011
16 Dividends
2011 2010 2009
Dividend Total Dividend Total Dividend Total
per share dividend per share dividend per share dividend
Paid/payable (pence) £m Paid/payable (pence) £m Paid/payable (pence) £m
First interim 7 July 2011 16 814 8 July 2010 15 764 9 July 2009 14 701
Second interim 6 October 2011 16 809 7 October 2010 15 759 8 October 2009 14 713
Third interim 5 January 2012 17 847 6 January 2011 16 816 7 January 2010 15 763
Fourth interim 12 April 2012 21 1,040 7 April 2011 19 967 8 April 2010 18 919
Annual total 70 3,510 65 3,306 61 3,096
Supplemental 12 April 2012 5 248
Total 75 3,758 65 3,306 61 3,096
Supplemental dividend
The Board declared a supplemental dividend of 5 pence per share related to the disposal of certain non-core OTC brands in North
America, which was completed on 31 January 2012, to be paid at the same time as the fourth interim dividend for 2011.
Under IFRS interim dividends are only recognised in the financial statements when paid and not when declared. GSK normally pays a
dividend two quarters after the quarter to which it relates and one quarter after it is declared. The 2011 financial statements recognise
those dividends paid in 2011, namely the third and fourth interim dividends for 2010 and the first and second interim dividends for 2011.
The amounts recognised in each year are as follows:
2011 2010 2009
£m £m £m
Dividends to shareholders 3,406 3,205 3,003
17 Property, plant and equipment
Plant,
Land and equipment Assets in
buildings and vehicles construction Total
£m £m £m £m
Cost at 1 January 2010 6,002 10,515 2,240 18,757
Exchange adjustments 80 60 (7) 133
Additions 75 293 670 1,038
Additions through business combinations 20 7 – 27
Capitalised borrowing costs – – 6 6
Disposals and write-offs (111) (661) (2) (774)
Reclassifications 223 432 (671) (16)
Transfer to assets held for sale (171) (105) – (276)
Cost at 31 December 2010 6,118 10,541 2,236 18,895
Exchange adjustments (78) (155) (15) (248)
Additions 113 294 654 1,061
Additions through business combinations 18 5 28 51
Capitalised borrowing costs – – 8 8
Disposals and write-offs (91) (443) (58) (592)
Reclassifications 334 339 (757) (84)
Transfer to assets held for sale (63) (192) (4) (259)
Cost at 31 December 2011 6,351 10,389 2,092 18,832162 GSK Annual Report 2011
Financial Notes to the financial statements continued
statements
17 Property, plant and equipment continued
Plant,
Land and equipment Assets in
buildings and vehicles construction Total
£m £m £m £m
Depreciation at 1 January 2010 (2,087) (6,686) – (8,773)
Exchange adjustments (39) (51) – (90)
Charge for the year (321) (825) – (1,146)
Disposals and write-offs 11 508 – 519
Transfer to assets held for sale 147 95 – 242
Depreciation at 31 December 2010 (2,289) (6,959) – (9,248)
Exchange adjustments 16 88 – 104
Charge for the year (202) (691) – (893)
Disposals and write-offs 51 397 – 448
Transfer to assets held for sale 28 124 – 152
Depreciation at 31 December 2011 (2,396) (7,041) – (9,437)
Impairment at 1 January 2010 (153) (396) (61) (610)
Exchange adjustments – 2 (1) 1
Disposals and write-offs 64 111 – 175
Impairment losses (43) (160) (2) (205)
Reversal of impairments 14 5 – 19
Transfer to assets held for sale 18 – – 18
Impairment at 31 December 2010 (100) (438) (64) (602)
Exchange adjustments 3 6 1 10
Disposals and write-offs 21 59 – 80
Impairment losses (66) (121) (3) (190)
Reversal of impairments 4 31 – 35
Transfer to assets held for sale – 20 – 20
Impairment at 31 December 2011 (138) (443) (66) (647)
Total depreciation and impairment at 31 December 2010 (2,389) (7,397) (64) (9,850)
Total depreciation and impairment at 31 December 2011 (2,534) (7,484) (66) (10,084)
Net book value at 1 January 2010 3,762 3,433 2,179 9,374
Net book value at 31 December 2010 3,729 3,144 2,172 9,045
Net book value at 31 December 2011 3,817 2,905 2,026 8,748
The net book value at 31 December 2011 of the Group’s land and buildings comprises freehold properties £3,580 million
(2010 – £3,427 million), properties with leases of 50 years or more £143 million (2010 – £238 million) and properties with leases of less
than 50 years £94 million (2010 – £64 million).
Included in land and buildings at 31 December 2011 are leased assets with a cost of £559 million (2010 – £582 million), accumulated
depreciation of £303 million (2010 – £280 million), impairment of £19 million (2010 – £nil) and a net book value of £237 million
(2010 – £302 million). Included in plant, equipment and vehicles at 31 December 2011 are leased assets with a cost of £81 million
(2010 – £95 million), accumulated depreciation of £64 million (2010 – £54 million), impairment of £14 million (2010 – nil) and a net
book value of £3 million (2010 – £41 million). Some lease agreements include renewal or purchase options or escalation clauses.
The impairment losses principally arise from decisions to rationalise facilities and are calculated based on either fair value less costs to
sell or value in use. The value in use calculations determine the net present value of the projected risk-adjusted, post-tax cash flows of
the relevant asset or cash generating unit, applying a discount rate of the Group post-tax weighted average cost of capital (WACC) of
7%, adjusted where appropriate for relevant specific risks. Where an impairment is indicated and a pre-tax cash flow calculation is
expected to give a materially different result, the test would be reperformed using pre-tax cash flows and a pre-tax discount rate. The
Group WACC is equivalent to a pre-tax discount rate of approximately 10%. The impairment losses have been charged to cost of sales
£31 million (2010 – £142 million), R&D £89 million (2010 – £46 million) and SG&A £70 million (2010 – £17 million), and include
£131 million (2010 – £57 million) arising from the major restructuring programmes.
Reversals of impairment arise from subsequent reviews of the impaired assets where the conditions which gave rise to the original
impairments are deemed no longer to apply. All of the reversals have been credited to cost of sales.163 GSK Annual Report 2011
18 Goodwill
2011 2010
£m £m
Cost at 1 January 3,606 3,361
Exchange adjustments (30) 95
Additions through business combinations (Note 38) 178 160
Impairment losses – (10)
Cost at 31 December 3,754 3,606
Net book value at 1 January 3,606 3,361
Net book value at 31 December 3,754 3,606
There were no impairment losses in the year.
The carrying value of goodwill, translated at year-end exchange rates, is made up of balances arising on acquisition of the following
businesses:
2011 2010
Cash generating unit £m £m
Stiefel Laboratories, Inc. US, Europe, Emerging Markets, Asia Pacific, Other Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 891 894
ID Biomedical Corporation US, Europe, Emerging Markets, Asia Pacific, Japan, Other Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 456 464
Reliant Pharmaceuticals, Inc. US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 451 448
Sirtris Pharmaceuticals, Inc. US, Europe, Emerging Markets, Asia Pacific, Japan, Other Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 306 304
GlaxoSmithKline K.K. Japan Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 260 246
Pfizer HIV business ViiV Healthcare 252 255
Domantis Limited US, Europe, Emerging Markets, Asia Pacific, Japan, Other Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 181 181
CNS, Inc. Consumer Healthcare 142 142
Maxinutrition Group
Holdings Limited Consumer Healthcare 114 –
Polfa Poznan S.A. Europe Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 102 118
Certain businesses from UCB S.A. Emerging Markets, Asia Pacific Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 88 89
Laboratorios Phoenix S.A.I.C.yF. Emerging Markets Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 66 66
NovaMin Technology Inc. Consumer Healthcare 52 52
Others 393 347
3,754 3,606
The goodwill arising on the acquisition of Stiefel has been allocated to the US, Europe, Emerging Markets, Asia Pacific and Other
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines cash generating units for impairment testing purposes as the benefits of the acquired business are
expected to arise from these businesses.
The goodwill arising on the acquisitions of ID Biomedical, Sirtris Pharmaceuticals and Domantis has been split between the US, Europe,
Emerging Markets, Asia Pacific, Japan and Other Pharmaceutical and Vaccines cash generating units for impairment testing purposes as
either the benefit of the acquired businesses is split among the cash generating units or the acquired businesses do not generate
independent cash flows.164 GSK Annual Report 2011
Financial Notes to the financial statements continued
statements
18 Goodwill continued
The recoverable amounts of the cash generating units are assessed on a fair value less costs to sell basis using the Group’s
acquisition valuation model. Fair value less costs to sell of the cash generating unit to which the goodwill is allocated is calculated as
the net present value of the projected risk-adjusted post-tax cash flows plus a terminal value. A post-tax discount rate is applied to
calculate the net present value of the cash flows. The discount rate used is based on the Group WACC of 7%, as most cash
generating units have integrated operations across large parts of the Group. The discount rate is adjusted where appropriate for
specific country or currency risks.
Details relating to the discounted cash flow models used in the impairment tests of the Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines and Consumer
Healthcare cash generating units are as follows:
Valuation basis Fair value less costs to sell
Key assumptions Sales growth rates
Advertising and promotion investment
Profit margins
Terminal growth rate
Discount rate
Determination of assumptions Growth rates are internal forecasts based on both internal and external market information.
Margins reflect past experience, adjusted for expected changes.
Advertising and promotion investment based on historical levels adjusted for management’s view
of support needed for innovation and expansion.
Terminal growth rates based on management’s estimate of future long-term average growth rates.
Discount rates based on Group WACC, adjusted where appropriate.
Period of specific projected cash flows 5 years
Terminal growth rate and discount rate Terminal growth rate Discount rate
US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 1% p.a. 7%
Europe Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 1% p.a. 7%
Emerging Markets Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 2% p.a. 10%
Asia Pacific Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 1.5% p.a. 8%
Japan Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 2% p.a. 6%
ViiV Healthcare 2.5% p.a. 10%
Other Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 1% p.a. 7%
Consumer Healthcare 3% p.a. 7%
The terminal growth rates do not exceed the long-term projected growth rates for the relevant markets. The terminal growth rates
used in the fair value less costs to sell calculations for the cash generating units reflect the impact of future generic competition and
take account of new product launches.
The Pharmaceutical and Vaccines cash generating units comprise a collection of smaller cash generating units including assets with
indefinite lives with a carrying value of £679 million (2010 – £708 million). The Consumer Healthcare cash generating unit also
comprises a collection of smaller cash generating units including brands with indefinite lives with a carrying value of £1.57 billion
(2010 – £1.83 billion).
Details of indefinite life brands are given in Note 19 ‘Other intangible assets’.
In each case the valuations indicate sufficient headroom such that a reasonably possible change to key assumptions is unlikely to
result in an impairment of the related goodwill.165 GSK Annual Report 2011
19 Other intangible assets
Computer Licences, Amortised Indefinite life
software patents, etc. brands brands Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Cost at 1 January 2010 1,030 6,849 359 2,482 10,720
Exchange adjustments 14 150 7 55 226
Capitalised internal development costs 81 – – – 81
Additions through business combinations – 214 11 27 252
Capitalised borrowing costs – 2 – – 2
Other additions 58 469 – – 527
Disposals and asset write-offs (25) (13) – – (38)
Reclassifications 16 – – – 16
Cost at 31 December 2010 1,174 7,671 377 2,564 11,786
Exchange adjustments 2 (15) (2) (51) (66)
Capitalised internal development costs 81 – – – 81
Additions through business combinations – 5 62 61 128
Capitalised borrowing costs 5 6 – – 11
Other additions 17 218 – – 235
Disposals and asset write-offs (5) (106) – – (111)
Reclassifications 84 – – – 84
Transfer to assets held for sale – (3) (309) (296) (608)
Cost at 31 December 2011 1,358 7,776 128 2,278 11,540
Amortisation at 1 January 2010 (768) (1,242) (37) – (2,047)
Exchange adjustments (8) (37) – – (45)
Charge for the year (106) (411) (16) – (533)
Disposals and asset write-offs 20 1 – – 21
Amortisation at 31 December 2010 (862) (1,689) (53) – (2,604)
Exchange adjustments – 3 (2) – 1
Charge for the year (89) (419) (22) – (530)
Disposals and asset write-offs 5 – – – 5
Transfer to assets held for sale – – 45 – 45
Amortisation at 31 December 2011 (946) (2,105) (32) – (3,083)
Impairment at 1 January 2010 (33) (431) – (26) (490)
Exchange adjustments (1) (13) – (1) (15)
Impairment losses (5) (143) (2) – (150)
Disposals and asset write-offs 3 – 2 – 5
Impairment at 31 December 2010 (36) (587) – (27) (650)
Exchange adjustments 1 (5) – – (4)
Impairment losses (2) (133) – – (135)
Reversal of impairments – 22 – – 22
Disposals and asset write-offs 1 101 – – 102
Transfer to assets held for sale – 10 – – 10
Impairment at 31 December 2011 (36) (592) – (27) (655)
Total amortisation and impairment at 31 December 2010 (898) (2,276) (53) (27) (3,254)
Total amortisation and impairment at 31 December 2011 (982) (2,697) (32) (27) (3,738)
Net book value at 1 January 2010 229 5,176 322 2,456 8,183
Net book value at 31 December 2010 276 5,395 324 2,537 8,532
Net book value at 31 December 2011 376 5,079 96 2,251 7,802166 GSK Annual Report 2011
Financial Notes to the financial statements continued
statements
19 Other intangible assets continued
Amortisation and impairment losses, net of reversals, have been charged in the income statement as follows:
Amortisation Net impairment losses
2011 2010 2011 2010
£m £m £m £m
Cost of sales 14 26 – –
Selling, general and administration 365 353 15 13
Research and development 151 154 98 137
530 533 113 150
Included in the impairments above is £nil million (2010 – £8 million) arising from the major restructuring programmes.
The net book value of computer software includes £277 million (2010 – £129 million) of internally generated costs.
Licences, patents, etc. includes a large number of acquired licences, patents, know-how agreements and marketing rights, which are
either marketed or in use, or still in development. The net book value includes £5 million (2010 – £5 million) of internally generated
costs. Impairment losses of £111 million (2010 – £143 million) principally arise on assets in development that are no longer being
actively pursued. Note 38, ‘Acquisitions and disposals’ gives details of additions through business combinations in the year. The book
values of the largest individual items are as follows:
2011 2010
£m £m
FluLaval/Fluviral 606 663
Lovaza 536 593
Selzentry 274 299
Arzerra 284 294
Duac 148 157
Fraxiparine 113 135
Others 3,110 3,254
5,071 5,395
Indefinite life brands comprise a portfolio of Consumer Healthcare products primarily acquired with the acquisitions of Sterling
Winthrop, Inc. in 1994, Block Drug Company, Inc. in 2001 and CNS, Inc. in 2006, together with a number of pharmaceutical brands
from the acquisition of Stiefel Laboratories, Inc. in 2009. The book values of the major brands are as follows:
2011 2010
£m £m
Panadol 424 426
Sensodyne 266 270
Stiefel trade name 209 216
Breathe Right 201 199
Physiogel 169 182
Polident 112 114
Corega 100 102
Biotene 110 111
Poligrip 69 70
Solpadeine – 59
Others 591 788
2,251 2,537
Each of these brands is considered to have an indefinite life, given the strength and durability of the brand and the level of marketing
support. The brands are in relatively similar stable and profitable market sectors, with similar risk profiles, and their size, diversification
and market shares mean that the risk of market-related factors causing a reduction in the lives of the brands is considered to be
relatively low. The Group is not aware of any material legal, regulatory, contractual, competitive, economic or other factor which
could limit their useful lives. Accordingly, they are not amortised.
Each brand is tested annually for impairment applying a fair value less costs to sell methodology, generally using five year post-tax
cash flow forecasts with a terminal value calculation and a discount rate equal to the Group post-tax WACC of 7%, adjusted where
appropriate for country and currency specific risks. The main assumptions include future sales price and volume growth, product
contribution and the future expenditure required to maintain the product’s marketability and registration in the relevant jurisdictions.
These assumptions are based on past experience and are reviewed as part of management’s budgeting and strategic planning cycle
for changes in market conditions and sales erosion through competition. The terminal growth rates applied of between nil and 3%
are management’s estimates of future long-term average growth rates of the relevant markets. In each case the valuations indicate
sufficient headroom such that a reasonably possible change to key assumptions is unlikely to result in an impairment of these brands.167 GSK Annual Report 2011
20 Investments in associates and joint ventures
Joint Associated 2011 Joint Associated 2010
ventures undertakings Total ventures undertakings Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 54 1,027 1,081 46 849 895
Exchange adjustments – (61) (61) 4 8 12
Additions 33 2 35 30 35 65
Disposals (25) (460) (485) – (2) (2)
Transfer from other investments – 3 3 – 40 40
Distributions received (2) (23) (25) (3) (18) (21)
Other movements – (3) (3) – 11 11
(Loss)/profit after tax recognised in the consolidated
income statement (31) 46 15 (23) 104 81
At 31 December 29 531 560 54 1,027 1,081
The Group held one significant associated undertaking at 31 December 2011.
At 31 December 2011, the Group owned 81.7 million shares or 19% of Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Limited. Aspen, listed on the
Johannesburg Stock Exchange, is Africa’s largest pharmaceutical manufacturer and a major supplier of branded and generic
pharmaceutical, healthcare and nutritional products to the southern African and selected international markets. The investment had a
book value at 31 December 2011 of £393 million (2010 – £397 million) and a market value of £627 million (2010 – £729 million).
Although the Group holds less than 20% of the ownership interest and voting control of Aspen, the Group has the ability to exercise
significant influence through both its shareholding and its nominated director’s active participation on the Aspen Board of Directors.
On 1 February 2011 GSK disposed of its entire 18% shareholding in Quest Diagnostics Inc., a US clinical laboratory business listed on
the New York Stock Exchange. The sale comprised a secondary public offering and an accompanying repurchase of shares by Quest
Diagnostics which together generated a profit on disposal of £584 million before tax.
The transfer from other investments in 2011 relates to the Group’s holding in Longwood Founders Fund, L.P, previously classified
within other investments.
Summarised balance sheet information in respect of the Group’s associates is set out below:
2011 2010
£m £m
Total assets:
Quest Diagnostics Inc. – 5,466
Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Limited 2,165 1,913
Others 356 360
2,521 7,739
Total liabilities:
Quest Diagnostics Inc. – (2,868)
Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Limited (988) (786)
Others (84) (73)
(1,072) (3,727)
Net assets 1,449 4,012
The summarised balance sheet information in respect of Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Limited is based on preliminary results
information and analysts forecasts available at 31 December 2011.
Investments in joint ventures comprise £49 million share of gross assets (2010 – £66 million) and £20 million share of gross liabilities
(2010 – £12 million). These principally arise from 50% interests in two joint ventures, Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare Holdings, L.P., which is
developing specified chemical compounds, and ViiV Healthcare Shire Canada, which primarily co-markets Combivir, Trizivir and Epivir
in certain territories, both of which are now part of the ViiV Healthcare business. Investments in joint ventures also include a 27%
interest in Pharmaceutical Insurance Limited, which is a mutual insurance company covering pharmaceutical business risk.
During 2011, GSK made additional capital contributions of £32 million to Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare Holdings, L.P. (2010 – £24 million).168 GSK Annual Report 2011
Financial Notes to the financial statements continued
statements
21 Other investments
2011 2010
£m £m
At 1 January 711 454
Exchange adjustments (2) 7
Additions 73 281
Net fair value movements (24) 96
Impairment losses (97) (60)
Transfer to investments in associates and joint ventures (3) (40)
Disposals (68) (27)
At 31 December 590 711
Other investments comprise non-current equity investments which are available-for-sale investments recorded at fair value at each
balance sheet date. For investments traded in an active market, the fair value is determined by reference to the relevant stock
exchange quoted bid price. For other investments, the fair value is estimated by management with reference to relevant available
information, including the current market value of similar instruments and discounted cash flows of the underlying net assets. The
Group holds a number of equity investments in entities where the Group has entered into research collaborations. Other investments
include listed investments of £385 million (2010 – £491 million), the decrease primarily arising from fair value adjustments and
impairments.
On disposal of investments, fair value movements are reclassified from equity to the income statement based on average cost for
shares acquired at different times.
The impairment losses recorded in the tables above have been recognised in the income statement for the year within other
operating income, together with amounts reclassified from the fair value reserve on recognition of the impairments. These
impairments initially result from prolonged or significant declines in the fair value of the equity investments below acquisition cost,
subsequent to which any further declines in fair value are immediately taken to the income statement.
Other investments include assets that have been impaired, as follows:
2011 2010
£m £m
Original cost 509 429
Cumulative impairments recognised in the income statement (386) (340)
Subsequent fair value increases 27 45
Carrying value at 31 December 150 134
22 Other non-current assets
2011 2010
£m £m
Amounts receivable under insurance contracts 337 343
Pension schemes in surplus 20 23
Other receivables 168 190
525 556
23 Inventories
2011 2010
£m £m
Raw materials and consumables 1,114 1,466
Work in progress 1,168 751
Finished goods 1,591 1,620
3,873 3,837169 GSK Annual Report 2011
24 Trade and other receivables
2011 2010
£m £m
Trade receivables, net of provision for bad and doubtful debts 4,441 4,727
Prepaid pension contributions 2 2
Other prepayments and accrued income 339 256
Interest receivable 8 16
Employee loans and advances 41 50
Other receivables 745 742
5,576 5,793
Trade receivables include £293 million (2010 – £343 million) after provision for bad and doubtful debts (£335 million before provision,
2010 – £381 million) due from state hospital authorities in Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain. Trade receivables also include
£42 million (2010 – £42 million) due from associates and joint ventures.
Bad and doubtful debt provision 2011 2010
£m £m
At 1 January 150 116
Exchange adjustments (2) –
Charge for the year 56 54
Subsequent recoveries of amounts provided for (49) (19)
Utilised (3) (1)
At 31 December 152 150
25 Cash and cash equivalents
2011 2010
£m £m
Cash at bank and in hand 841 1,027
Short-term deposits 4,873 5,030
5,714 6,057
26 Assets held for sale
2011 2010
£m £m
Land and buildings 35 6
Plant, equipment and vehicles 48 10
Assets in construction 4 –
Intangible assets 546 –
Inventory 32 –
665 16
Non-current assets are transferred to assets held for sale when it is expected that their carrying amounts will be recovered principally
through disposal and a sale is considered likely. They are held at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
The increase in assets held for sale primarily arises from the transfer of certain non-core Consumer Healthcare OTC products which
the Group is divesting. No impairment in carrying value was recognised on the transfer. The divestment is designed to realise value
for shareholders and simplify GSK’s Consumer Healthcare business and allow it to focus on its priority brands and markets.
The disposal of the North American OTC brands was completed on 31 January 2012, for proceeds of £426 million. The net profit on
disposal is estimated to be approximately £145 million after tax with net cash proceeds expected to be £242 million. The process of
divesting the remaining non-core OTC brands is continuing.170 GSK Annual Report 2011
Financial Notes to the financial statements continued
statements
27 Trade and other payables
2011 2010
£m £m
Trade payables 2,568 2,141
Wages and salaries 974 931
Social security 112 115
Other payables 304 296
Deferred income 38 70
Customer return and rebate accruals 1,669 1,632
Other accruals 1,694 1,703
7,359 6,888
Customer return and rebate accruals are provided for by the Group at the point of sale in respect of the estimated rebates, discounts
or allowances payable to customers, principally in the USA. Accruals are made at the time of sale but the actual amounts paid are
based on claims made some time after the initial recognition of the sale. As the amounts are estimated they may not fully reflect the
final outcome and are subject to change dependent upon, amongst other things, the types of buying group and product sales mix.
The level of accrual is reviewed and adjusted quarterly in the light of historical experience of actual rebates, discounts or allowances
given and returns made and any changes in arrangements. Future events could cause the assumptions on which the accruals are
based to change, which could affect the future results of the Group.
Trade and other payables include £16 million (2010 – £26 million) due to associates and joint ventures.
28 Pensions and other post-employment benefits
2011 2010 2009
Pension and other post-employment costs £m £m £m
UK pension schemes 52 158 206
US pension schemes 61 115 94
Other overseas pensions schemes 132 125 101
Unfunded post-retirement healthcare schemes 96 156 90
341 554 491
Analysed as:
Funded defined benefit/hybrid pension schemes 173 325 338
Unfunded defined benefit pension schemes 26 28 25
Unfunded post-retirement healthcare schemes 96 156 90
Defined benefit schemes 295 509 453
Defined contribution pension schemes 46 45 38
341 554 491
The costs of the defined benefit pension and post-retirement healthcare schemes are charged in the income statement as follows:
Cost of sales 93 117 121
Selling, general and administration 159 254 195
Research and development 43 138 137
295 509 453
GSK entities operate pension arrangements which cover the Group’s material obligations to provide pensions to retired employees.
These arrangements have been developed in accordance with local practices in the countries concerned. Pension benefits can be
provided by state schemes; by defined contribution schemes, whereby retirement benefits are determined by the value of funds arising
from contributions paid in respect of each employee; or by defined benefit schemes, whereby retirement benefits are based on employee
pensionable remuneration and length of service. Some ‘hybrid’ defined benefit schemes also include defined contribution sections.171 GSK Annual Report 2011
28 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
Pension costs of defined benefit schemes for accounting purposes have been calculated using the projected unit method. In certain
countries pension benefits are provided on an unfunded basis, some administered by trustee companies. Formal, independent,
actuarial valuations of the Group’s main plans are undertaken regularly, normally at least every three years.
Actuarial movements in the year are recognised through the statement of comprehensive income. Discount rates are derived from AA
rated corporate bond yields except in countries where there is no deep market in corporate bonds where government bond yields are
used. Discount rates are selected to reflect the term of the expected benefit payments. The expected rate of return on bonds reflects
the portfolio mix of index-linked, government and corporate bonds. The expected rate of return on equities represents the Group’s
long term view and includes a higher risk premium over bonds than in the past reflecting current low bond yields. Projected inflation
rate and pension increases are long-term predictions based on the yield gap between long-term index-linked and fixed interest Gilts.
In the UK, mortality rates are determined by adjusting the PCA00 standard mortality tables to reflect recent scheme experience.
These rates are then projected to reflect improvements in life expectancy in line with the medium cohort (i.e. improvements at
recently observed higher levels which are assumed to continue to 2020) with minimum improvements thereafter of 1% per year for
both males and females. In the USA, mortality rates are calculated using the RP2000 fully generational table, projected using scale
AA, with the white collar adjustment.
The average life expectancy assumed now for an individual at the age of 60 and projected to apply in 2031 for an individual then at
the age of 60 is as follows:
UK USA
Male Female Male Female
Years Years Years Years
Current 27.5 29.0 24.7 26.3
Projected for 2031 29.8 30.9 26.6 27.4
The assets of funded schemes are generally held in separately administered trusts, either as specific assets or as a proportion of a
general fund, or are insurance contracts. Assets are invested in different classes in order to maintain a balance between risk and
return. Investments are diversified to limit the financial effect of the failure of any individual investment. The Group reviewed the
investment strategy of the UK plans in 2011 and it is anticipated that the asset allocation for the UK plans will be adjusted to
approximately 55% return seeking assets and 45% liability matching assets. The target asset allocation of the US plans is currently
50% return seeking assets and 50% liability matching assets.
In the UK the defined benefit pension schemes operated for the benefit of former Glaxo Wellcome employees and former SmithKline
Beecham employees remain separate. These schemes were closed to new entrants in 2001 and subsequent UK employees are
entitled to join a defined contribution scheme. In the USA the former Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham defined benefit
schemes were merged during 2001. In addition, the Group operates a number of post-retirement healthcare schemes, the principal
one of which is in the USA.
The Group has applied the following financial assumptions in assessing the defined benefit liabilities:
UK USA Rest of World
2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009
% pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa
Rate of increase of future earnings 4.00 4.50 4.60 4.00 4.50 4.50 2.90 3.50 3.00
Discount rate 4.80 5.50 5.70 4.40 5.20 5.75 4.20 4.50 4.70
Expected pension increases 3.00 3.50 3.60 n/a n/a n/a 1.90 2.20 2.20
Cash balance credit/conversion rate n/a n/a n/a 3.75 4.20 4.75 1.20 1.30 1.60
Inflation rate 3.00 3.50 3.60 2.25 2.25 2.50 1.60 1.70 1.70172 GSK Annual Report 2011
Financial Notes to the financial statements continued
statements
28 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
The amounts recorded in the income statement and statement of comprehensive income for the three years ended 31 December 2011
in relation to the defined benefit pension and post-retirement healthcare schemes were as follows:
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
2011 UK USA Rest of World Group Group
£m £m £m £m £m
Amounts charged to operating profit
Current service cost 123 64 75 262 31
Past service cost (48) (1) – (49) (1)
Expected return on pension scheme assets (465) (136) (52) (653) –
Interest on scheme liabilities 437 134 64 635 71
Settlements and curtailments 5 – (1) 4 (5)
52 61 86 199 96
Actuarial losses recorded in the statement of
comprehensive income (637) (97) (102) (836) (133)
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
2010 UK USA Rest of World Group Group
£m £m £m £m £m
Amounts charged to operating profit
Current service cost 130 68 70 268 31
Past service cost – – – – 5
Expected return on pension scheme assets (427) (134) (51) (612) –
Interest on scheme liabilities 425 151 64 640 73
Settlements and curtailments 30 30 (3) 57 47
158 115 80 353 156
Actuarial gains/(losses) recorded in the statement of
comprehensive income 73 43 (37) 79 (80)
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
2009 UK USA Rest of World Group Group
£m £m £m £m £m
Amounts charged to operating profit
Current service cost 121 66 64 251 35
Past service cost – (6) – (6) (27)
Expected return on pension scheme assets (347) (121) (46) (514) –
Interest on scheme liabilities 378 148 62 588 74
Settlements and curtailments 54 7 (17) 44 8
206 94 63 363 90
Actuarial (losses)/gains recorded in the statement of
comprehensive income (578) (5) (77) (660) 1
The amounts included within settlements and curtailments include £5 million (2010 – £110 million; 2009 – £72 million) of
augmentation costs arising from major restructuring programmes (see Note 29 ‘Other provisions’).
The total actuarial losses recorded in the statement of comprehensive income since 1 January 2003 amount to £3,017 million.173 GSK Annual Report 2011
28 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
A summarised balance sheet presentation of the Group defined benefit pension schemes and other post-retirement benefits is set out
in the table below:
2011 2010 2009
£m £m £m
Recognised in Other non-current assets:
Pension schemes in surplus 20 23 23
Recognised in Pensions and other post-employment benefits:
Pension schemes in deficit (1,496) (1,247) (1,768)
Post-retirement benefits (1,595) (1,425) (1,213)
(3,091) (2,672) (2,981)
The fair values of the assets and liabilities of the UK and US defined benefit pension schemes, together with aggregated data for other
defined benefit pension schemes in the Group are as follows:
UK USA Rest of World Group
Average
Expected rate Fair Expected rate Fair expected rate Fair Fair
At 31 December 2011 of return value of return value of return value value
% £m % £m % £m £m
Equities 8.00 4,349 8.25 907 7.30 254 5,510
Property 7.00 274 7.25 163 7.00 6 443
Bonds 3.40 3,354 4.00 1,224 3.00 673 5,251
Other assets 3.35 1,142 0.25 161 3.30 351 1,654
Fair value of assets 9,119 2,455 1,284 12,858
Present value of scheme obligations (9,779) (2,945) (1,610) (14,334)
(660) (490) (326) (1,476)
Unrecognised past service cost – (1) 1 –
Recognised on the balance sheet (660) (491) (325) (1,476)
Included in other non-current assets – – 20 20
Included in pensions and other post-employment
benefits (660) (491) (345) (1,496)
(660) (491) (325) (1,476)
Actual return on plan assets 285 188 20 493
In December 2010, the UK scheme purchased an insurance contract that will guarantee payment of specified pensioner liabilities.
This is included within ‘Other assets’ and the ‘Present value of scheme obligations’ in the table above at a value of £735 million
(2010 – £698 million).
UK USA Rest of World Group
Average
Expected rate Fair Expected rate Fair expected rate Fair Fair
At 31 December 2010 of return value of return value of return value value
% £m % £m % £m £m
Equities 8.00 4,698 8.25 1,092 7.40 251 6,041
Property 7.00 272 7.25 147 7.00 6 425
Bonds 4.50 2,460 4.75 1,012 3.10 572 4,044
Other assets 3.50 1,188 0.25 59 3.80 399 1,646
Fair value of assets 8,618 2,310 1,228 12,156
Present value of scheme obligations (9,119) (2,781) (1,479) (13,379)
(501) (471) (251) (1,223)
Unrecognised past service cost – (2) 1 (1)
Recognised on the balance sheet (501) (473) (250) (1,224)
Included in other non-current assets – – 23 23
Included in pensions and other post-employment
benefits (501) (473) (273) (1,247)
(501) (473) (250) (1,224)
Actual return on plan assets 881 240 43 1,164174 GSK Annual Report 2011
Financial Notes to the financial statements continued
statements
28 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
UK USA Rest of World Group
Average
Expected rate Fair Expected rate Fair expected rate Fair Fair
At 31 December 2009
of return value of return value of return value value
% £m % £m % £m £m
Equities 8.00 4,209 8.25 914 7.50 232 5,355
Property 7.00 291 7.25 159 7.00 20 470
Bonds 4.90 2,632 5.00 907 3.50 562 4,101
Other assets 0.50 367 0.25 92 3.80 309 768
Fair value of assets 7,499 2,072 1,123 10,694
Present value of scheme obligations (8,446) (2,628) (1,364) (12,438)
(947) (556) (241) (1,744)
Unrecognised past service cost – (2) 1 (1)
Recognised on the balance sheet (947) (558) (240) (1,745)
Included in other non-current assets – – 23 23
Included in pensions and other post-employment
benefits (947) (558) (263) (1,768)
(947) (558) (240) (1,745)
Actual return on plan assets 1,076 243 65 1,384
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
UK USA Rest of World Group Group
Movements in fair values of assets
£m £m £m £m £m
Assets at 1 January 2009 6,135 2,016 1,137 9,288 –
Exchange adjustments – (221) (93) (314) –
Expected return on assets 347 121 46 514 –
Settlements and curtailments – – (51) (51) –
Actuarial gains 729 122 19 870 –
Employer contributions 594 190 110 894 58
Scheme participants’ contributions 17 – 8 25 11
Benefits paid (345) (156) (71) (572) (69)
Acquisitions 22 – 18 40 –
Assets at 31 December 2009 7,499 2,072 1,123 10,694 –
Exchange adjustments – 66 26 92 –
Expected return on assets 427 134 51 612 –
Actuarial gains 454 106 (8) 552 –
Employer contributions 531 175 108 814 60
Scheme participants’ contributions 20 – 8 28 13
Benefits paid (313) (243) (80) (636) (73)
Assets at 31 December 2010 8,618 2,310 1,228 12,156 –
Exchange adjustments – 18 (10) 8 –
Expected return on assets 465 136 52 653 –
Actuarial (losses)/gains (180) 52 (32) (160) –
Employer contributions 530 146 108 784 70
Scheme participants’ contributions 7 – 9 16 12
Benefits paid (321) (207) (71) (599) (82)
Assets at 31 December 2011 9,119 2,455 1,284 12,858 –
The UK defined benefit schemes include defined contribution sections with account balances totalling £957 million at 31 December
2011 (2010 – £961 million; 2009 – £765 million).
During 2011, the Group made special funding contributions to the UK pension schemes totalling £368 million (2010 – £365 million;
2009 – £332 million) and £82 million (2010 – £91 million; 2009 – £95 million) to the US scheme. In 2009, GSK reached an agreement
with the trustees of the UK pension schemes to make additional contributions to eliminate the pension deficit identified at the
31 December 2008 actuarial funding valuation. The additional contributions are expected to be £365 million per year for 2012 to
2013. The contributions are based on a discount rate of 5.25% and an inflation assumption of 2.8%. The next review of contribution
levels is in progress and will be based on the actuarial valuation at 31 December 2011.
Employer contributions for 2012, including special funding contributions, are estimated to be approximately £750 million in respect of
defined benefit pension schemes and £70 million in respect of post-retirement benefits.175 GSK Annual Report 2011
28 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
Movements in defined benefit obligations UK USA Rest of World Group Group
£m £m £m £m £m
Obligations at 1 January 2009 (6,885) (2,738) (1,357) (10,980) (1,354)
Exchange adjustments – 294 109 403 133
Service cost (121) (58) (64) (243) (5)
Interest cost (378) (148) (62) (588) (74)
Settlements and curtailments (54) (7) 68 7 (8)
Actuarial (losses)/gains (1,307) (127) (102) (1,536) 1
Scheme participants’ contributions (17) – (8) (25) (11)
Benefits paid 345 156 71 572 69
Transfers to other provisions (29) – (19) (48) (4)
Obligations at 31 December 2009 (8,446) (2,628) (1,364) (12,438) (1,253)
Exchange adjustments – (84) (27) (111) (38)
Service cost (130) (68) (70) (268) (31)
Interest cost (425) (151) (64) (640) (73)
Settlements and curtailments (30) (30) 3 (57) (44)
Actuarial losses (381) (63) (29) (473) (80)
Scheme participants’ contributions (20) – (8) (28) (13)
Benefits paid 313 243 80 636 73
Obligations at 31 December 2010 (9,119) (2,781) (1,479) (13,379) (1,459)
Exchange adjustments – (24) 15 (9) (10)
Service cost (75) (64) (75) (214) (18)
Interest cost (437) (134) (64) (635) (71)
Settlements and curtailments (5) – 1 (4) 5
Actuarial losses (457) (149) (70) (676) (133)
Scheme participants’ contributions (7) – (9) (16) (12)
Benefits paid 321 207 71 599 82
Obligations at 31 December 2011 (9,779) (2,945) (1,610) (14,334) (1,616)
Unrecognised past service cost – (1) 1 – 21
Recognised on the balance sheet at 31 December 2011 (9,779) (2,946) (1,609) (14,334) (1,595)
The UK defined benefit schemes include defined contribution sections with obligations totalling £957 million at 31 December 2011
(2010 – £961 million; 2009 – £765 million).
The liability for the US post-retirement healthcare scheme has been assessed using the same assumptions as for the US pension
scheme, together with the assumption for future medical inflation of 7.5% (2010 – 8%), grading down to 4.75% in 2018 and
thereafter. During 2009, both the US pension and post-retirement healthcare schemes were amended. The changes resulted in a
one-off gain of £37 million recognised in the income statement. At 31 December 2011 the US post-retirement healthcare scheme
obligation was £1,446 million (2010 – £1,288 million; 2009 – £1,102 million). However, in accordance with IAS 19 the unvested part
of a benefit improvement is not recognised immediately on the balance sheet but is recognised gradually through the income
statement. At 31 December 2011, for the Group, the unrecognised past service cost of £21 million (2010 – £34 million;
2009 – £40 million) primarily relates to the effect of the change in the US post-retirement healthcare scheme, which amounted
to £31 million (2010 – £36 million; 2009 – £42 million).
The defined benefit pension obligation is analysed as follows:
2011 2010 2009
£m £m £m
Funded (13,956) (13,033) (12,126)
Unfunded (378) (346) (312)
(14,334) (13,379) (12,438)
Post-retirement benefits are unfunded.176 GSK Annual Report 2011
Financial Notes to the financial statements continued
statements
28 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
History of experience gains and losses UK USA Rest of World Group Group
£m £m £m £m £m
2011
Experience (losses)/gains of scheme assets (180) 52 (32) (160)
Percentage of scheme assets at 31 December 2011 2% 2% 2% 1%
Experience (losses)/gains of scheme liabilities (66) (3) (21) (90) 5
Percentage of scheme obligations at 31 December 2011 1% – 1% 1% –
Fair value of assets 9,119 2,455 1,284 12,858 –
Present value of scheme obligations (9,779) (2,945) (1,610) (14,334) (1,616)
Deficits in the schemes (660) (490) (326) (1,476) (1,616)
2010
Experience gains/(losses) of scheme assets 454 106 (8) 552
Percentage of scheme assets at 31 December 2010 5% 5% 1% 5%
Experience (losses)/gains of scheme liabilities (45) 5 (3) (43) (14)
Percentage of scheme obligations at 31 December 2010 – – – – 1%
Fair value of assets 8,618 2,310 1,228 12,156 –
Present value of scheme obligations (9,119) (2,781) (1,479) (13,379) (1,459)
Deficits in the schemes (501) (471) (251) (1,223) (1,459)
2009
Experience gains of scheme assets 729 122 19 870
Percentage of scheme assets at 31 December 2009 10% 6% 2% 8%
Experience gains/(losses) of scheme liabilities 162 (27) (15) 120 6
Percentage of scheme obligations at 31 December 2009 2% 1% 1% 1% –
Fair value of assets 7,499 2,072 1,123 10,694 –
Present value of scheme obligations (8,446) (2,628) (1,364) (12,438) (1,253)
Deficits in the schemes (947) (556) (241) (1,744) (1,253)
2008
Experience losses of scheme assets (1,691 ) (614) (134) (2,439)
Percentage of scheme assets at 31 December 2008 28% 30% 12% 26%
Experience (losses)/gains of scheme liabilities (148) 2 1 (145) (14)
Percentage of scheme obligations at 31 December 2008 2% – – 1% 1%
Fair value of assets 6,135 2,016 1,137 9,288 –
Present value of scheme obligations (6,885) (2,738) (1,357) (10,980) (1,354)
Deficits in the schemes (750) (722) (220) (1,692) (1,354)
2007
Experience gains of scheme assets 168 46 (18) 196
Percentage of scheme assets at 31 December 2007 2% 2% 2% 2%
Experience gains/(losses) of scheme liabilities 33 (30) 6 9 –
Percentage of scheme obligations at 31 December 2007 – 2% 1% – –
Fair value of assets 7,293 2,004 885 10,182 –
Present value of scheme obligations (7,371) (1,945) (1,022) (10,338) (1,019)
(Deficits)/surpluses in the schemes (78) 59 (137) (156) (1,019)177 GSK Annual Report 2011
28 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
Sensitivity analysis
Effect of changes in assumptions used on the annual defined benefit pension and post-retirement costs or the benefit obligations:
£m
A 0.25% decrease in discount rate would have the following approximate effect:
Increase in annual pension cost –
Decrease in annual post-retirement benefits cost 1
Increase in pension obligation 500
Increase in post-retirement benefits obligation 45
A one year increase in life expectancy would have the following approximate effect:
Increase in annual pension cost 19
Increase in annual post-retirement benefits cost 3
Increase in pension obligation 336
Increase in post-retirement benefits obligation 45
A 0.25% decrease in expected rates of return on assets would have the following approximate effect:
Increase in annual pension cost 29
A 1% increase in the rate of future healthcare inflation would have the following approximate effect:
Decrease in annual post-retirement benefits cost 1
Increase in post-retirement benefits obligation 13
A 0.25% increase in inflation would have the following approximate effect:
Increase in annual pension cost 22
Increase in pension obligation 357
29 Other provisions
Integration
Legal Major Employee and
and other restructuring related manufacturing Other
disputes programmes provisions reorganisation provisions Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2011 4,000 674 251 27 332 5,284
Exchange adjustments (26) (7) (3) – (3) (39)
Charge for the year 357 249 8 – 26 640
Reversed unused (99) (11) (5) (1) (24) (140)
Unwinding of discount 6 2 – – 4 12
Utilised (1,466) (502) (15) (5) (130) (2,118)
Transfer to pensions obligations – (5) – – – (5)
Reclassifications and other movements – 4 (4) – – –
At 31 December 2011 2,772 404 232 21 205 3,634
To be settled within one year 2,737 331 20 7 40 3,135
To be settled after one year 35 73 212 14 165 499
At 31 December 2011 2,772 404 232 21 205 3,634178 GSK Annual Report 2011
Financial Notes to the financial statements continued
statements
29 Other provisions continued
Legal and other disputes
The Group is involved in a substantial number of legal and other disputes, including notification of possible claims, as set out in
Note 44 ‘Legal proceedings’. Provisions for legal and other disputes include amounts relating to product liability (principally relating
to Avandia, Paxil and Poligrip), anti-trust (principally relating to Wellbutrin and Flonase), government investigations (principally
relating to the ‘Colorado investigation’, Avandia-related investigations, AWP and nominal price investigations and the Cidra,
Puerto Rico manufacturing settlement), contract terminations, self-insurance, environmental clean-up and property rental.
The charge for the year of £357 million (£157 million net of reversals and estimated insurance recoveries) primarily relates to
provisions in relation to product liability cases regarding Paxil, Poligrip and other products and various government investigations.
The discount on the provisions decreased by £12 million in 2011 (2010 – £2 million) and was calculated using risk-adjusted projected
cash flows and risk-free rates of return. The movement in 2011 includes a decrease of £5 million (2010 – £10 million) arising from a
change in the discount rate in the year.
In respect of product liability claims related to certain products, there is sufficient history of claims made and settlements to enable
management to make a reliable estimate of the provision required to cover unasserted claims. In certain cases an IBNR (incurred but
not reported) actuarial technique is used to determine this estimate. The ultimate liability for such matters may vary from the amounts
provided and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation proceedings, investigations and possible settlement negotiations.
It is in the nature of the Group’s business that a number of these matters, including those provided using the IBNR actuarial technique,
may be the subject of negotiation and litigation over many years. Litigation proceedings, including the various appeal procedures, often
take many years to reach resolution, and out-of-court settlement discussions can also often be protracted. The Group is in potential
settlement discussions in a number of the disputes for which amounts have been provided and, based on its current assessment of the
progress of these disputes, estimates that £2.7 billion of the amount provided at 31 December 2011 will be settled within one year.
At 31 December 2011, it was expected that £29 million (2010 – £117 million) of the provision made for legal and other disputes will be
reimbursed by third party insurers. This amount is included within the Other receivables balances in Note 22, ‘Other non-current assets’
and Note 24, ‘Trade and other receivables’. For a discussion of legal issues, see Note 44 ‘Legal proceedings’.
Major restructuring programmes
In October 2007 the Group announced a significant new Operational Excellence programme to improve the effectiveness and
productivity of its operations (see Note 7 ‘Major restructuring programme’). A significant expansion of the Operational Excellence
programme was approved by the Board and announced in February 2009. A further expansion was approved by the Board and
announced in February 2010. Further savings have been identified during the year and with an estimated total cost increased to
approximately £4.85 billion, the expanded programme is now expected to deliver annual pre-tax savings of approximately £2.8 billion
by the time it is substantially complete in 2014.
Provisions for staff severance payments are made when management has made a formal decision to eliminate certain positions
and this has been communicated to the groups of employees affected. No provision is made for staff severance payments that are
made immediately.
Pension augmentations arising from staff redundancies of £5 million (2010 – £110 million) have been charged during the year and then
transferred to the pension obligations provision as shown in Note 28 ‘Pensions and other post-employment benefits’. Asset write-
downs have been recognised as impairments of property, plant and equipment in Note 17 ‘Property, plant and equipment’. The
majority of the amounts provided are expected to be utilised in the next two years.
Employee related provisions
Employee related provisions include certain medical benefits to disabled employees and their spouses in the USA. At 31 December
2011, the provision for these benefits amounted to £121 million (2010 – £120 million). Other employee benefits reflect a variety of
provisions for severance costs, jubilee awards and other long-service benefits.
Integration and manufacturing reorganisation
Provisions for integration and manufacturing reorganisations reflect costs related to ongoing restructuring programmes not included
within the costs disclosed in Note 7, ‘Major restructuring programmes’.
Other provisions
Included in other provisions is contingent consideration in respect of business acquisitions, principally of Stiefel Laboratories Inc. in 2009.
The contingent consideration is payable upon certain criteria being met by certain specified dates in the future. The aggregate provision
for these items amounts to £42 million at 31 December 2011 (2010 – £164 million).179 GSK Annual Report 2011
30 Other non-current liabilities
2011 2010
£m £m
Accruals and deferred income 128 103
Other payables 498 491
626 594
31 Contingent liabilities
At 31 December 2011, contingent liabilities, comprising guarantees, discounted bills and other items arising in the normal course of
business, amounted to £205 million (2010 – £165 million). At 31 December 2011, £1 million (2010 – £4 million) of financial assets
were pledged as collateral for contingent liabilities. Provision is made for the outcome of tax, legal and other disputes where it is both
probable that the Group will suffer an outflow of funds and it is possible to make a reliable estimate of that outflow. At 31 December
2011, other than for those disputes where provision has been made, it was not possible to make a reliable estimate of the potential
outflow of funds that might be required to settle disputes where the possibility of there being an outflow was more than remote.
Descriptions of the significant tax, legal and other disputes to which the Group is a party are set out in Note 14, ‘Taxation’ and
Note 44, ‘Legal proceedings’.
32 Net debt
2011 2010
Listing exchange £m £m
Current assets:
Liquid investments 184 184
Cash and cash equivalents 5,714 6,057
5,898 6,241
Short-term borrowings:
Bank loans and overdrafts (165) (259)
Obligations under finance leases (34) (32)
3.00% € European Medium Term Note 2012 London Stock Exchange (626) –
5.125% € European Medium Term Note 2012 London Stock Exchange (1,873) –
(2,698) (291)
Long-term borrowings:
3.00% € European Medium Term Note 2012 London Stock Exchange – (640)
5.125% € European Medium Term Note 2012 London Stock Exchange – (1,919)
4.85% US$ US Medium Term Note 2013 New York Stock Exchange (1,611) (1,599)
4.375% US$ US Medium Term Note 2014 London Stock Exchange (1,046) (1,049)
3.875% € European Medium Term Note 2015 London Stock Exchange (1,326) (1,358)
5.625% € European Medium Term Note 2017 London Stock Exchange (1,037) (1,062)
5.65% US$ US Medium Term Note 2018 New York Stock Exchange (1,768) (1,756)
4.00% € European Medium Term Note 2025 London Stock Exchange (616) (632)
5.25% £ European Medium Term Note 2033 London Stock Exchange (981) (981)
5.375% US$ US Medium Term Note 2034 London Stock Exchange (320) (318)
6.375% US$ US Medium Term Note 2038 New York Stock Exchange (1,756) (1,744)
6.375% £ European Medium Term Note 2039 London Stock Exchange (694) (694)
5.25% £ European Medium Term Note 2042 London Stock Exchange (986) (985)
Bank loans (1) (1)
Obligations under finance leases (61) (71)
(12,203) (14,809)
Net debt (9,003) (8,859)180 GSK Annual Report 2011
Financial Notes to the financial statements continued
statements
32 Net debt continued
Current assets
Liquid investments are classified as available-for-sale investments. At 31 December 2011, they included US Treasury Notes and
other government bonds. The effective interest rate on liquid investments at 31st December 2011 was approximately 1.0%
(2010 – approximately 1.6%). Liquid investment balances at 31 December 2011 earning interest at floating and fixed rates
amount to £1 million and £183 million respectively (2010 – £2 million and £182 million).
The effective interest rate on cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2011 was approximately 1.3% (2010 – approximately 1.3%).
Cash and cash equivalents balances at 31st December 2011 earning interest at floating and fixed rates amount to £5,466 million and
£21 million respectively (2010 – £5,752 million and £166 million).
GSK’s policy regarding the credit quality of cash and cash equivalents is referred to in Note 41, ‘Financial instruments and related
disclosures’.
Short-term borrowings
GSK has a US $10 billion (£6.5 billion) commercial paper programme (2010 – $10 billion (£6.4 billion)), of which none was in issue at
31 December 2011. We also have committed facilities of 364 days duration of $4.4 billion (£2.8 billion) (2010 – $3.9 billion (£2.5
billion)) renewable annually, and liquid investments, cash and cash equivalents as shown in the table above.
The weighted average interest rate on current bank loans and overdrafts at 31 December 2011 was 5.5% (2010 – 4.5%).
Long-term borrowings
At the year-end, GSK had long-term borrowings of £12.2 billion (2010 – £14.8 billion) of which £8.2 billion (2010 – £8.2 billion)
falls due in more than five years. The average effective pre-swap interest rate of all notes at 31 December 2011 was approximately
5.2% (2010 – approximately 5.2%).
Long-term borrowings repayable after five years carry interest at effective rates between 4.26% and 6.39%. The repayment dates
range from 2017 to 2042.
Secured liabilities
GSK had no loans secured by charges on non-current and current assets in the year (2010 – £nil). The Group has pledged investments
in US Treasury Notes with a par value of $119 million (£77 million) (2010 – $107 million (£69 million)) as security against irrevocable
letters of credit issued on the Group’s behalf in respect of the Group’s self-insurance activity. Provisions in respect of self-insurance are
included within the provisions for legal and other disputes discussed in Note 29, ‘Other provisions’.
2011 2010
Finance lease obligations £m £m
Rental payments due within one year 37 37
Rental payments due between one and two years 27 32
Rental payments due between two and three years 18 21
Rental payments due between three and four years 12 13
Rental payments due between four and five years 4 8
Rental payments due after five years 8 8
Total future rental payments 106 119
Future finance charges (11) (16)
Total finance lease obligations 95 103
Finance lease obligations at 31 December 2011 bearing interest at floating and fixed rates amount to £67 million and £28 million,
respectively (2010 – £70 million and £33 million).181 GSK Annual Report 2011
33 Share capital and share premium account
Share
Ordinary Shares of 25p each premium
Number £m £m
Share capital authorised
At 31 December 2009 10,000,000,000 2,500
At 31 December 2010 10,000,000,000 2,500
At 31 December 2011 10,000,000,000 2,500
Share capital issued and fully paid
At 1 January 2009 5,661,316,237 1,415 1,326
Issued under employee share schemes 3,812,482 1 42
At 31 December 2009 5,665,128,719 1,416 1,368
Issued under employee share schemes 5,329,458 2 60
At 31 December 2010 5,670,458,177 1,418 1,428
Issued under employee share schemes 21,949,144 5 245
Share capital purchased and cancelled (142,204,223) (36) –
At 31 December 2011 5,550,203,098 1,387 1,673
31 December 2011 31 December 2010
000 000
Number of shares issuable under employee share schemes (Note 42) 126,810 207,132
Number of unissued shares not under option 4,322,987 4,122,410
At 31 December 2011, of the issued share capital, 90,922,720 shares were held in the ESOP Trusts, 501,157,927 shares were held as
Treasury shares and 4,958,122,451 shares were in free issue. All issued shares are fully paid. The nominal, carrying and market values
of the shares held in the ESOP Trusts are disclosed in Note 42, ‘Employee share schemes’.
A total of 169 million shares were purchased by the company during 2011 at a cost of £2,191 million. During the year 142 million
shares were cancelled and 27 million shares added to Treasury shares.
Monthly purchases of shares during 2011 were as follows:
Average share price excluding
Number of shares commission and stamp duty
000 £
February 10,775 11.79
March 16,155 11.64
April 8,714 12.26
May 9,125 13.18
June 26,735 12.91
July 27,448 13.51
August 33,568 12.73
September 10,202 12.88
October 6,827 13.71
November 17,844 13.69
December 1,775 14.16
Total 169,168 12.89
The company expects to make further share repurchases of £1–2 billion during 2012. The exact amount and timing of further
purchases and whether the shares will be held as Treasury shares or be cancelled will be determined by the company and is
dependent on market conditions and other factors. No shares were purchased in the period 1 January 2012 to 7 February 2012.
In the period 8 February 2012 to 2 March 2012 8.6 million shares were purchased at a cost of £122.3 million.
For details of substantial shareholdings refer to page 96.182 GSK Annual Report 2011
Financial Notes to the financial statements continued
statements
34 Movements in equity
Retained earnings and other reserves amounted to £4,972 million at 31 December 2011 (2010 – £6,041 million; 2009 – £7,221 million)
of which £421 million (2010 – £472 million; 2009 – £390 million) relates to joint ventures and associated undertakings. The cumulative
translation exchange in equity is shown below in the following table:
Net translation exchange included in:
Non- Total
Retained Fair value controlling translation
earnings reserve interests exchange
£m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2009 1,371 10 (11) 1,370
Exchange movements on overseas net assets (161) 1 (34) (194)
Reclassification of exchange on liquidation of overseas subsidiary (44) – – (44)
At 31 December 2009 1,166 11 (45) 1,132
Exchange movements on overseas net assets 145 – 21 166
Reclassification of exchange on liquidation of overseas subsidiary (2) – – (2)
At 31 December 2010 1,309 11 (24) 1,296
Exchange movements on overseas net assets (259) 4 (44) (299)
Reclassification of exchange on liquidation or disposal of overseas subsidiaries (1) – – (1)
At 31 December 2011 1,049 15 (68) 996
The analysis of other comprehensive income by equity category is as follows:
Retained Other Non-controlling
earnings reserves interests Total
2011 £m £m £m £m
Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges (259) 4 (44) (299)
Reclassification of exchange on liquidation or disposal of overseas subsidiaries (1) – – (1)
Fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – (20) – (20)
Deferred tax on fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – 23 – 23
Reclassification of fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – (29) – (29)
Reclassification of cash flow hedges to income statement – 1 – 1
Actuarial losses on defined benefit plans (969) – – (969)
Deferred tax on actuarial movements in defined benefit plans 268 – – 268
Share of other comprehensive expense of associates and joint ventures (8) – – (8)
Other comprehensive expense for the year (969) (21) (44) (1,034)
Retained Other Non-controlling
earnings reserves interests Total
2010 £m £m £m £m
Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges 145 – 21 166
Reclassification of exchange on liquidation or disposal of overseas subsidiaries (2) – – (2)
Fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – 94 – 94
Deferred tax on fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – (25) – (25)
Reclassification of fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – 1 – 1
Deferred tax reversed on reclassification of available-for-sale investments – (3) – (3)
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges – (8) – (8)
Deferred tax on fair value movements on cash flow hedges – 1 – 1
Reclassification of cash flow hedges to income statement – 3 – 3
Cash flow hedge reclassified to goodwill – 6 – 6
Actuarial losses on defined benefit plans – – (1) (1)
Deferred tax on actuarial movements in defined benefit plans 1 – – 1
Other comprehensive income for the year 144 69 20 233183 GSK Annual Report 2011
34 Movements in equity continued
Retained Other Non-controlling
earnings reserves interests Total
2009 £m £m £m £m
Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges (161) 1 (34) (194)
Reclassification of exchange on liquidation or disposal of overseas subsidiaries (44) – – (44)
Tax on exchange movements 19 – – 19
Fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – 42 – 42
Deferred tax on fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – (20) (4) (24)
Deferred tax reversed on reclassification of available-for-sale investments – 13 – 13
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges – (6) – (6)
Deferred tax on fair value movements on cash flow hedges – 2 – 2
Reclassification of cash flow hedges to income statement – 1 – 1
Fair value movement on subsidiary acquisition – (6) – (6)
Actuarial losses on defined benefit plans (660) – 1 (659)
Deferred tax on actuarial movements in defined benefit plans 183 – – 183
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year (663) 27 (37) (673)
The analysis of other reserves is as follows:
ESOP Trust Fair value Cash flow Other
shares reserve hedge reserve reserves Total
£m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2009 (1,445) (8) (3) 2,024 568
Transferred to income and expense in the year on disposals – (40) 1 – (39)
Transferred to income and expense in the year on impairment – 40 – – 40
Net fair value movement in the year – 30 (4) – 26
Ordinary Shares acquired by ESOP Trusts (57) – – – (57)
Ordinary Shares transferred by ESOP Trusts 13 – – – 13
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts 351 – – – 351
Put option over non-controlling interest – – – (2) (2)
At 31 December 2009 (1,138) 22 (6) 2,022 900
Transferred to income and expense in the year on disposals – (5) 3 – (2)
Transferred to income and expense in the year on impairment – 5 – – 5
Net fair value movement in the year – 67 (1) – 66
Ordinary Shares acquired by ESOP Trusts (16) – – – (16)
Ordinary Shares transferred by ESOP Trusts 17 – – – 17
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts 292 – – – 292
At 31 December 2010 (845) 89 (4) 2,022 1,262
Transferred to income and expense in the year on disposals – (10) 3 – (7)
Transferred to income and expense in the year on impairment – (19) – – (19)
Net fair value movement in the year – 10 (5) – 5
Ordinary Shares purchased and cancelled – – – 36 36
Ordinary Shares acquired by ESOP Trusts (36) – – – (36)
Ordinary Shares transferred by ESOP Trusts 44 – – – 44
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts 345 – – – 345
Forward contract on non-controlling interest – – – (28) (28)
At 31 December 2011 (492) 70 (6) 2,030 1,602
Other reserves include various non-distributable merger and pre-merger reserves amounting to £1,849 million at 31 December 2011
(2010 – £1,849 million; 2009 – £1,849 million). Other reserves also include the capital redemption reserve created as a result of the
share buy-back programme amounting to £211 million at 31 December 2011 (2010 – £175 million; 2009 – £175 million).184 GSK Annual Report 2011
Financial Notes to the financial statements continued
statements
35 Related party transactions
On 1 February 2011, GSK sold its entire 18% shareholding in Quest Diagnostics Inc. The sale comprised a secondary public offering
and an accompanying repurchase of shares by Quest Diagnostics which together generated a profit on disposal of £584 million.
GSK held a 19% interest in Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Limited at 31 December 2011 (2010 – 19%).
During 2011, GSK distributed £95 million (2010 – £81 million) of its products through Aspen’s extensive distribution network.
At 31 December 2011, the balance due to GSK from Aspen was £16 million (2010 – £22 million) and the balance payable by GSK
to Aspen was £11 million (2010 – £12 million).
In 2011, both GSK’s subsidiary, ViiV Healthcare Company, and Shionogi & Co. Ltd. entered into transactions with their 50/50 US joint
venture company in support of the research and development activities conducted by that joint venture company. During 2011, ViiV
Healthcare Company provided services to the joint venture of £61 million (2010 – £42 million). At 31 December 2011, the balance due
to ViiV Healthcare Company from the joint venture was £26 million (2010 – £20 million).
At 31 December 2011, GSK held a 50% interest in ViiV Healthcare Shire Canada, through its subsidiary ViiV Healthcare ULC, which
primarily co-markets Combivir, Trizivir and Epivir in certain territories. At 31 December 2011, the balance payable to ViiV Healthcare
Shire Canada was £5 million (2010 – £4 million).
The aggregate compensation of the Directors and CET is given in Note 10, ‘Employee Costs’.
36 Adjustments reconciling profit after tax to operating cash flows
2011 2010 2009
£m £m £m
Profit after tax 5,458 1,853 5,669
Tax on profits 2,240 1,304 2,222
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures (15) (81) (64)
Finance income net of finance costs 709 715 713
Depreciation 893 1,146 1,130
Amortisation of intangible assets 530 533 432
Impairment and assets written off 346 411 445
Profit on sale of intangible assets (236) (118) (835)
Profit on sale of investments in associates (585) (8) (115)
Profit on sale of equity investments (10) (17) (40)
Changes in working capital:
(Increase)/decrease in inventories (157) 238 (132)
Decrease/(increase) in trade receivables 192 905 (473)
(Increase)/decrease in other receivables (69) 6 (134)
Increase in trade payables 442 154 499
Increase/(decrease) in other payables 2 (179) 409
(Decrease)/increase in pension and other provisions (2,181) 1,653 (320)
Share-based incentive plans 198 179 179
Other (44) (63) (40)
2,255 6,778 3,876
Cash generated from operations 7,713 8,631 9,545
The decrease in pension and other provisions primarily reflects legal settlements of £1.5 billion and further contributions to the defined
benefit pension schemes.185 GSK Annual Report 2011
37 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt
2011 2010 2009
£m £m £m
Net debt at beginning of year (8,859) (9,444) (10,173)
(Decrease)/increase in cash and bank overdrafts (94) (642) 1,054
Cash inflow from liquid investments (30) (91) (87)
Net increase in long-term loans – – (1,358)
Net (increase)/repayment of short-term loans (37) 1,290 102
Net repayment of obligations under finance leases 38 45 48
Debt of subsidiary undertakings acquired (10) (20) (9)
Exchange adjustments (10) 61 1,041
Other non-cash movements (1) (58) (62)
Movement in net debt (144) 585 729
Net debt at end of year (9,003) (8,859) (9,444)
Analysis of changes in net debt At 31.12.10 Exchange Other Reclassifications Acquisitions Cash flow At 31.12.11
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Liquid investments 184 1 29 – – (30) 184
Cash and cash equivalents 6,057 (105) – – – (238) 5,714
Overdrafts (250) (3) – – – 144 (109)
5,807 (108) – – – (94) 5,605
Debt due within one year:
Eurobonds and Medium-Term Notes – – – (2,498) – – (2,498)
Other (41) (1) (9) (29) (10) (1) (91)
(41) (1) (9) (2,527) (10) (1) (2,589)
Debt due after one year:
Eurobonds, Medium-Term Notes and
private financing (14,737) 97 – 2,498 – – (12,142)
Other (72) 1 (21) 29 – 2 (61)
(14,809) 98 (21) 2,527 – 2 (12,203)
Net debt (8,859) (10) (1) – (10) (123) (9,003)
For further information on significant changes in net debt see Note 32 ‘Net debt’.186 GSK Annual Report 2011
Financial Notes to the financial statements continued
statements
38 Acquisitions and disposals
Details of the acquisition and disposal of significant subsidiaries and associates, joint ventures and other businesses are given below:
2011
Acquisitions
During the year GSK completed four subsidiary acquisitions for cash. The total purchase price of £299 million included £16 million of
cash acquired.
Fair value
Book value adjustments Fair value
£m £m £m
Net assets acquired
Intangible assets 6 122 128
Property, plant and equipment 52 (1) 51
Trade and other receivables 16 – 16
Other assets including cash and cash equivalents 23 1 24
Deferred tax provision – (31) (31)
Other liabilities (32) (1) (33)
65 90 155
Goodwill – 168 168
65 258 323
Investment in associate converted into subsidiary (25) 1 (24)
Total consideration 40 259 299
If the acquisitions had been made at the beginning of the year, it is estimated that Group turnover would have increased by £75 million
for the year. As some of the subsidiaries have been fully integrated into the GSK business it is not practicable to separately identify the
impact of the acquisitions on the Group profit for the year.
The goodwill arising on the acquisitions reflects the potential for business synergies and further sales growth through the increase in
GSK’s market presence following the acquisitions of these businesses. In addition, goodwill of £10 million was recognised in respect of
fair value adjustments to prior year acquisitions. None of the goodwill recognised is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
The results of the acquisitions are reported as part of the Consumer Healthcare and the Emerging Markets reportable operating segments.
The Group recognised a loss of £1 million as a result of remeasuring to fair value an associate held prior to the acquisition date. This loss is
reported as a loss on disposal of interest in associates in the income statement.
Acquisition costs expensed in 2011 arising on acquisitions totalled £2 million.
Investments and joint ventures
GSK made cash contributions of £33 million in a joint venture in which the Group has a 50% share, made cash investments in associates
totalling £2 million and transferred a £3 million equity investment into associates in which the group has increased its share from 5% to 37%.
Disposals
GSK disposed of one subsidiary. The cash outflow on disposal was £10 million net of cash disposed. On 1 February 2011 GSK disposed
of its entire 18% shareholding in Quest Diagnostics Inc., a US clinical laboratory business listed on the New York Stock Exchange. The
sale comprised a secondary public offering and an accompanying repurchase of shares by Quest Diagnostics which together generated
a profit on disposal of £584 million before tax.
Associates
Other and joint
Cash flows acquisitions ventures Total
£m £m £m
Total cash consideration 299 35 334
Cash and cash equivalents acquired (16) – (16)
Cash consideration, net of cash acquired 283 35 318
Net cash consideration paid 264 35 299
Deferred consideration 19 – 19
Cash consideration, net of cash acquired 283 35 318
Net cash (outflow)/proceeds from disposals, net of cash disposed (10) 1,044 1,034187 GSK Annual Report 2011
38 Acquisitions and disposals continued
2010
Acquisitions
Laboratorios Phoenix S.A.C.yF.
On 10 June 2010, GSK acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Laboratorios Phoenix S.A.C.yF., a leading pharmaceutical business
focused on the development, marketing and sale of branded generic and over-the-counter products in Latin America, for cash.
The purchase price of £174 million included £11 million of net cash, £121 million of intangible assets, £72 million of goodwill and
£30 million of other net liabilities. The goodwill arising on the acquisition of this business reflects the potential for business synergies
and further sales growth through the increase in GSK’s market presence following the acquisition of an established market participant.
None of the goodwill recognised is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
The results of Phoenix are reported as part of the Emerging Markets operating segment. This transaction has been accounted for by
using the purchase method of accounting.
The pro-forma results of Laboratorios Phoenix S.A C.yF. for the full year are turnover of £60 million and loss after tax (before major
restructuring) of £2 million.
Since acquisition, GSK recorded turnover of £35 million and after tax losses (before major restructuring) of £0.5 million from the
business. Transaction costs expensed in 2010 arising on the acquisition of Laboratorios Phoenix S.A.C.yF. amounted to £3 million.
Fair value
Book value adjustments Fair value
£m £m £m
Net assets acquired
Intangible assets – 121 121
Property, plant and equipment 6 10 16
Other assets including cash and cash equivalents 39 7 46
Deferred tax provision (1) (41) (42)
Other liabilities (27) (12) (39)
17 85 102
Goodwill – 72 72
Total consideration 17 157 174
Other acquisitions
During the year, GSK completed three smaller subsidiary acquisitions for cash. The total purchase price of £198 million included
£1 million of net cash.
Fair value
Book value adjustments Fair value
£m £m £m
Net assets acquired
Intangible assets 3 128 131
Property, plant and equipment 9 2 11
Other assets including cash and cash equivalents 20 12 32
Deferred tax provision – (33) (33)
Other liabilities (10) – (10)
22 109 131
Goodwill – 75 75
Fair value gain recognised on conversion of associate to subsidiary – (8) (8)
Total consideration 22 176 198
If the other acquisitions had been made at the beginning of the year, it is estimated that Group turnover would have increased by
£51 million for the year. As some of the subsidiaries have been fully integrated into the GSK business it is not practicable to separately
identify the impact of the acquisitions on the Group profit for the year.188 GSK Annual Report 2011
Financial Notes to the financial statements continued
statements
38 Acquisitions and disposals continued
2010
Acquisitions continued
The goodwill arising on the acquisitions reflects the potential for business synergies and further sales growth through the increase in
GSK’s market presence following the acquisition of these established market participants. In addition, goodwill of £13 million was
recognised in respect of further consideration for a prior year acquisition. None of the goodwill recognised is expected to be deductible
for income tax purposes.
The results of the other acquisitions are reported primarily as part of the Emerging Markets reportable operating segment.
The Group recognised a gain of £8 million as a result of measuring at fair value an associate held prior to the acquisition date.
This gain is reported as Profit on disposal of interest in associates in the income statement.
Acquisition costs expensed in 2010 arising on other acquisitions totalled £7 million.
Investments and joint ventures
GSK made cash and non-cash contributions of £24 million in a joint venture in which the Group has a 50% share, £6 million in a joint
venture in which the Group has a 49% share, an investment in an associate of £32 million to increase the Group’s share to 27% and
other investments in associates totalling £3 million.
Associates
Other and joint
Phoenix acquisitions ventures Total
Cash flows £m £m £m £m
Total cash consideration 174 198 61 433
Cash and cash equivalents acquired (11) (1) – (12)
Cash consideration, net of cash acquired 163 197 61 421
Net cash consideration paid 163 191 61 415
Deferred consideration – 6 – 6
Cash consideration, net of cash acquired 163 197 61 421
2009
Acquisitions
Certain businesses from UCB S.A.
On 31 March 2009, the Group acquired from UCB S.A. its marketed product portfolio across certain territories in Africa, the Middle
East, Asia Pacific and Latin America which included several leading pharmaceutical brands in a number of disease areas. Subsequent
to this date the Group completed further country acquisitions which formed part of the original transaction. The purchase price of
£477 million included £5 million of net cash, £445 million of intangible assets, £87 million of goodwill and £60 million of other net
liabilities. The goodwill arising on the acquisition of this business reflects the potential for product growth throughout the regions and
the expected synergies for the Group. This transaction has been accounted for by the purchase method of accounting.
The transaction included acquisition of both a number of legal entities and product rights that had been previously marketed outside of
those entities. The product portfolio acquired was integrated into the GSK business after acquisition and it is not therefore practicable
to identify the result after tax arising as a result of this transaction for the period of 2009 after acquisition.
During 2009, prior to acquisition it is estimated that the product portfolio recorded turnover of £26 million. Since acquisition GSK
recorded turnover of £77 million in 2009 from the products acquired.
Book Fair value Fair
value adjustment value
£m £m £m
Net assets acquired
Intangible assets 417 28 445
Property, plant and equipment 1 – 1
Cash and cash equivalents 5 – 5
Deferred tax provision – (56) (56)
Other liabilities (5) – (5)
418 (28) 390
Goodwill – 87 87
Total consideration 418 59 477189 GSK Annual Report 2011
38 Acquisitions and disposals continued
2009
Acquisitions continued
Stiefel Laboratories, Inc.
On 22 July 2009, the Group acquired all of the share capital of Stiefel Laboratories, Inc., the world’s largest private dermatological
company for a cash consideration of £1,993 million net of cash acquired and including £326 million of debt repaid on acquisition.
The purchase price of £2,219 million (including contingent cash consideration of £152 million payable upon certain criteria being met
by specified dates in the future) included £74 million of cash and cash equivalents, £1,513 million of intangible assets, £885 million of
goodwill, representing the potential for additional growth from the combination of the Stiefel business and GSK’s existing dermatology
portfolio, and £253 million of other net liabilities. The purchase price included potential obligations to make additional payments of
up to $300 million (£183 million) depending on the future performance of certain products. Stiefel Laboratories Inc. had a turnover
of £547 million and a loss after tax (including restructuring costs) of £103 million for the year ended 31 December 2009, of which
£248 million of turnover and £78 million of loss after tax (including restructuring costs) related to the period since acquisition and are
included in the Group accounts. In 2009, since acquisition, Stiefel made an operating profit of £35 million before restructuring costs
and intangible assets amortisation.
The business will provide significant opportunities for both sales and cost synergies. Stiefel’s products will benefit from GSK’s global
distribution and commercial organisations, particularly in markets such as Brazil, Russia, India, China and Japan. GSK’s products will
benefit from Stiefel’s speciality sales force relationships and experienced management in dermatology.
Cost synergies for the business are expected primarily from combining manufacturing and administrative functions. As previously
reported, GSK expects to deliver annual pre-tax cost savings of up to £155 million by 2012 with restructuring costs of approximately
£205 million. Excluding restructuring costs, the Stiefel acquisition resulted in a dilution of GSK’s earnings per share of less than 1%
in 2009.
Book Fair value Fair
value adjustment value
£m £m £m
Net assets acquired
Intangible assets 274 1,239 1,513
Property, plant and equipment 111 – 111
Other assets including cash and cash equivalents 210 47 257
Deferred tax provision 35 (331) (296)
Other liabilities (251) – (251)
379 955 1,334
Goodwill – 885 885
Total consideration 379 1,840 2,219
ViiV Healthcare Limited
On 30 October 2009, GSK acquired Pfizer Inc.’s HIV business and combined it with its own HIV business to form ViiV Healthcare
Limited, a sub-group owned 85% by GSK and 15% by Pfizer. The consideration given by GSK, representing 15% of the net value
of GSK’s HIV business, contingent consideration and transaction costs, was valued at £383 million. This was represented by
£595 million of intangible assets, £172 million of deferred tax liability, £21 million of other net assets, £316 million increase in
non-controlling interests and £255 million of goodwill representing the economies of scale gained from the combination of the
two businesses and the potential for growth of both partners’ HIV products within ViiV Healthcare. The non-controlling interest
represents Pfizer’s interest in ViiV Healthcare including the right to preferential dividends based on the sales performance of
certain products.
GSK recognised an accounting gain of £296 million on this transaction arising on the disposal of a 15% interest in GSK’s HIV
business to Pfizer recorded at book value, in return for 85% of Pfizer’s HIV business recorded at fair value.190 GSK Annual Report 2011
Financial Notes to the financial statements continued
statements
38 Acquisitions and disposals continued
2009
Acquisitions continued
The acquired Pfizer HIV business had a turnover of £89 million and a loss after tax of £39 million in 2009, of which, after taking
account of the transition status in various territories, £1 million of turnover and £23 million of loss after tax, including restructuring
costs, was recognised in the Group accounts in 2009.
Book Fair value Fair
value adjustment value
£m £m £m
Net assets acquired
Intangible assets 13 582 595
Other assets including cash and cash equivalents 10 11 21
Deferred tax provision – (172) (172)
23 421 444
Non-controlling interests – (316) (316)
Goodwill – 255 255
Total consideration 23 360 383
Consideration
Fair value of assets contributed by GSK 328
Fair value of contingent equity contributed by GSK 37
Direct costs 18
Total consideration 383
Other acquisitions
Other investments in the year included £327 million in five subsidiaries, £16 million in a joint venture in which the Group has a 50%
share and £20 million in an associate in which the Group has an initial 40% share.
Certain Stiefel
businesses Laboratories,
Cash flows of UCB S.A. Inc. Other Total
£m £m £m £m
Cash consideration 477 2,067 371 2,915
Cash and cash equivalents acquired (5) (74) (15) (94)
Net cash consideration 472 1,993 356 2,821
Contingent consideration – 152 2 154
Net purchase consideration 472 2,145 358 2,975
If the acquisitions of subsidiaries had been made at the beginning of the year, it is estimated that Group turnover would have
increased by £477 million for the year. As some of the acquisitions have been fully integrated into the GSK business it is not
practicable to separately identify the impact of the acquisitions on the Group profit for the year.191 GSK Annual Report 2011
39 Commitments
2011 2010
Contractual obligations and commitments £m £m
Contracted for but not provided in the financial statements:
Intangible assets 7,968 11,762
Property, plant and equipment 504 380
Investments 64 37
Purchase commitments 882 1,127
Business combinations – 285
Pensions 730 1,095
Other commitments 190 242
Interest on loans 9,491 10,312
Finance lease charges 11 16
19,840 25,256
The commitments related to intangible assets include milestone payments, which are dependent on successful clinical development or
on meeting specified sales targets, and which represent the maximum that would be paid if all milestones, however unlikely, are
achieved. The amounts are not risk-adjusted or discounted. A number of commitments were made in 2011 under licensing and other
agreements, including arrangements with Theravance, Inc. and Janssen Biologics (Ireland). These new arrangements were offset by
reduced commitments due on prior year transactions including amendments to the agreements with Anacor Pharmaceuticals, Inc.,
Concert Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Chroma Therapeutics, Inc., OncoMed Pharmaceuticals, Inc., and Tolerx, Inc., and also to MPEX
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. which was terminated during the year.
In 2009, GSK reached an agreement with the trustees of the UK pension schemes to make additional contributions to eliminate the
pension deficit identified at the 31 December 2008 actuarial funding valuation. The table above shows this commitment, but excludes
the normal ongoing annual funding requirement of approximately £120 million.
The Group also has other commitments which principally relate to revenue payments to be made under licences and other alliances.
Commitments in respect of future interest payable on loans are disclosed before taking into account the effect of interest rate swaps.
2011 2010
Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases
£m £m
Rental payments due within one year 113 123
Rental payments due between one and two years 65 73
Rental payments due between two and three years 46 46
Rental payments due between three and four years 30 32
Rental payments due between four and five years 17 25
Rental payments due after five years 83 116
Total commitments under non-cancellable operating leases 354 415
40 Post balance sheet events
On 31 January 2012, GSK completed the disposal of the non-core North American OTC brands for proceeds of £426 million.
On 17 January 2012, GSK’s co-promotion agreement for Vesicare with Astellas Pharma Inc. was terminated. As a result, GSK will be
recording cumulative income, attributable to the performance of the brand in 2011, in the first quarter of 2012 of approximately
$270 million (£170 million) within turnover.192 GSK Annual Report 2011
Financial Notes to the financial statements continued
statements
41 Financial instruments and related In 2012, we expect to deliver continued dividend growth and as
disclosures part of our long-term share buy back programme we are targeting
share repurchases of £1-2 billion depending on market conditions.
GlaxoSmithKline plc reports in Sterling and pays dividends out of
Net debt increased during the year by £0.1 billion, from
Sterling profits. The role of Corporate Treasury is to manage and
£8.9 billion at 31 December 2010 to £9.0 billion at 31 December
monitor our external and internal funding requirements and
2011, as the Group’s positive cash generation and cash holdings
financial risks in support of our strategic objectives. Treasury
were largely sufficient to finance the Group’s acquisitions,
activities are governed by policies and procedures approved by
dividends, share buy-backs and payment of legal costs in the year.
the Board of Directors, most recently on 14 July 2011.
GSK operates on a global basis, primarily through subsidiary
A Treasury Management Group (TMG) meeting, chaired by our
companies established in the markets in which we trade. We
Chief Financial Officer, takes place on a monthly basis to review
manage our capital to ensure that our subsidiaries are able to
treasury activities. Its members receive management information
operate as going concerns and to optimise return to shareholders
relating to treasury activities. Internal audit reviews the Treasury
through an appropriate balance of debt and equity.
internal control environment regularly.
Liquidity risk
GSK uses a variety of financial instruments to finance its operations
and derivative financial instruments to manage risks from these GSK’s policy is to borrow centrally in order to meet anticipated
operations. These derivatives, principally comprising forward funding requirements. The cash flow forecast and funding
foreign currency contracts, interest rate and currency swaps, are requirements are monitored by the TMG on a monthly basis.
used to swap borrowings and liquid assets into currencies required We have a European Medium Term Note programme of £15 billion.
for Group purposes and to manage exposure to funding risks from At 31 December 2011, we had £8.2 billion of notes in issue under
changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates. this programme. We also have a US shelf registration statement.
GSK does not hold or issue derivatives for speculative purposes At 31 December 2011, we had $10.0 billion (£6.5 billion) of notes
and our Treasury policies specifically prohibit such activity. All in issue under this programme.
transactions in financial instruments are undertaken to manage the At 31 December 2011, GSK had borrowings of £2.7 billion
risks arising from underlying business activities, not for speculation. repayable within one year. GSK’s long-term borrowings mature at
Capital management dates between 2013 and 2042. Our long-term debt ratings have
remained unchanged since February 2008. Currently GSK is rated
GSK’s financial strategy is regularly reviewed by the Board. GSK
A+ stable outlook by Standard and Poor’s and A1 stable outlook by
manages the capital structure of the Group through an appropriate
Moody’s Investors Service (‘Moody’s’). Our short-term debt ratings
mix of debt and equity that delivers the best returns to shareholders
are A-1 and P-1 with Standard and Poor’s and Moody’s respectively.
whilst maintaining credit ratings that maximise our flexibility to
access debt capital markets on attractive terms. GSK has access to short-term finance under a US$10 billion
commercial paper programme and $4.4 billion of committed
The capital structure of the Group consists of net debt of
facilities. The facilities were last renewed in October 2011, and were
£9.0 billion (see Note 32, ‘Net debt’) and shareholders’ equity of
increased from $3.9 billion to $4.4 billion at that time. We consider
£8.0 billion (see ’Consolidated statement of changes in equity‘
this level of committed facilities to be adequate given current
on page 139). Total capital, including that provided by non-
liquidity requirements. For further information on these facilities,
controlling interests of £0.8 billion, is £17.8 billion.
please refer to Note 32, ‘Net debt’.
We allocate capital where it can deliver the best returns for our
As well as committed facilities GSK also has substantial cash and
shareholders. Our commitment is to use free cash flow to support
cash equivalents and liquid investments, which amounted to
dividends, undertake share repurchases or, where returns are more
£5.9 billion at 31 December 2011. In 2011 we reviewed our cash
attractive, invest in bolt-on acquisitions. Investment opportunities
balances relative to our debt portfolio and the sources of the debt
will continue to be assessed against strict financial criteria.
that we access in order to improve the efficiency of our balance
With significant levels of patent or trademark protection, our sheet. As a result, we intend to reduce our effective net funding
pharmaceutical products compete largely on product efficacy cost by maintaining a lower level of cash and by diversifying our
or differentiation. Selling margins are sufficient to cover normal sources of funding given the current low interest rate environment.
operating costs and our operations continue to be highly cash
Market risk
generative. Net cash inflow from operating activities was
£6.3 billion in 2011 and free cash flow was £4.1 billion. Interest rate risk management
In 2011, we returned all of our free cash flow and asset disposal GSK’s objective is to reduce the effective net interest cost and to
proceeds to shareholders through a balance of dividends and share rebalance the mix of debt at fixed and floating interest rates over time.
buy-backs. We paid out £3.4 billion in dividends and completed The policy on interest rate risk management limits the amount of
£2.2 billion of share repurchases as part of our long-term floating interest payments to a prescribed percentage of trading profit.
programme. Alongside both of these, we have also elected to
We use a series of interest rate swaps to redenominate one of our
return the net proceeds from the sale of our non-core North
bonds into floating interest rates. The duration of these swaps
American OTC brands to shareholders through payment of a
match the duration of the principal instrument. Interest rate
supplemental dividend.
derivative instruments are accounted for as fair value or cash flow
hedges of the relevant assets or liabilities.193 GSK Annual Report 2011
41 Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Foreign exchange risk management
Foreign currency transaction exposures arising on internal and external trade flows are not hedged. The exposure of overseas operating subsidiaries
to transaction risk is minimised by matching local currency income with local currency costs. For this purpose, our internal trading transactions are
matched centrally and we manage inter-company payment terms to reduce foreign currency risk. Exceptional foreign currency cash flows can be
hedged selectively under the management of Corporate Treasury and the TMG. Where possible, we manage the cash surpluses or borrowing
requirements of subsidiary companies centrally using forward contracts to hedge future repayments back into the originating currency. In order to
reduce foreign currency translation exposure, we seek to denominate borrowings in the currencies of our principal assets and cash flows. These are
primarily denominated in US dollars, Euros and Sterling. Certain borrowings can be swapped into other currencies as required. Borrowings
denominated in, or swapped into, foreign currencies that match investments in overseas Group assets may be treated as a hedge against the relevant
assets. Forward contracts are also used in major currencies to reduce our exposure to our investment in overseas Group assets (see ‘Net investment
hedges’ section of this note for further details). The TMG reviews the ratio of borrowings to assets for major currencies monthly.
Credit risk
The Group considers its maximum credit risk to be £11,541 million (2010 – £12,285 million) which is the total of the Group’s financial
assets with the exception of ’Other investments’ which do not bear credit risk. See page 195 for details on the Group’s total financial
assets. GSK’s greatest concentration of credit risk is £2.0 billion of investments in US Treasury and Treasury repo only money market funds.
These funds are Aaa/AAA rated by Moody’s and Standard and Poor’s respectively and bear credit exposure to the US Government (Aaa/
AA+ rated with Moody’s and Standard and Poor’s respectively). In 2010, the greatest concentration of credit risk was £1.3 billion with
JP Morgan Chase (Aa1/AA- rated at the time with Moody’s and Standard and Poor’s respectively), comprising £1.2 billion invested in
deposits and £0.1 billion of derivatives.
Treasury-related credit risk
GSK has managed its exposure to credit risk more actively in the recent financial crisis, reducing surplus cash balances in particular in the
Middle East, Africa and Europe. This is part of our Treasury strategy to regionalise our cash management and to concentrate cash centrally as
much as possible. GSK has continued to maintain its conservative approach to counterparty risk throughout this period. A report on
relationship banks and their credit ratings is presented annually to the TMG for approval. The aggregate credit risk in respect of financial
instruments the Group may have with one counterparty is limited by reference to the long-term credit ratings assigned for that counterparty
by Moody’s and Standard and Poor’s. The table below sets out the credit ratings of counterparties for liquid investments, cash and cash
equivalents and derivatives. The gross asset position on each derivative contract is considered for the purpose of this table, although, under
the ISDA contracts, the amount at risk is the net position with each counterparty.
The £102 million invested in Baa3/BBB- rated investments includes a proportion of GSK’s Indian assets: bank deposits with HDFC Bank
and State Bank of India and Indian Government bonds. These counterparties are used either for local cash management purposes or for
local investment purposes where GSK is not the sole shareholder.
The £17 million invested in Ba2/BB rated counterparties comprises bank balances held by operating companies overseas.
Credit rating of counterparty
Aaa/AAA Aa1/AA+ Aa2/AA Aa3/AA- A1/A+ A2/A A3/A-Baa1/BBB+ Baa2/BBB Baa3/BBB- Ba1/BB+ Ba2/BB Total
2011 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Bank balances and deposits – – – 812 2,183 720 39 3 5 96 – 17 3,875
US Treasury and Treasury repo
only money market funds – 1,839 – – – – – – – – – – 1,839
Corporate debt instruments – – – 9 – – – – – – – – 9
Government securities – 169 – – – – – – – 6 – – 175
3rd party financial derivatives – – – 12 68 34 24 – – – – – 138
Total – 2,008 – 833 2,251 754 63 3 5 102 – 17 6,036
Credit rating of counterparty
Aaa/AAA Aa1/AA+ Aa2/AA Aa3/AA- A1/A+ A2/A A3/A-Baa1/BBB+ Baa2/BBBBaa3/BBB- Ba1/BB+ Ba2/BB Total
2010 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Bank balances and deposits – – 1,772 1,226 2,494 67 – 1 – 84 16 – 5,660
US Treasury and Treasury repo
only money market funds 360 – – – – – – – – – – – 360
Corporate debt instruments – – – 10 – – – – – – – – 10
Government securities 192 – – – – – – – – 8 11 – 211
3rd party financial derivatives – – 23 49 100 – – – – – – – 172
Total 552 – 1,795 1,285 2,594 67 – 1 – 92 27 – 6,413
The credit ratings in the above tables are as assigned by Moody’s and Standard and Poor’s respectively. Where the opinion of the two rating
agencies differ, GSK assigns the lower rating of the two to the counterparty. Where local rating agency data is the only source available, the
ratings are converted to global ratings equivalent to those of Moody’s Investor Services or Standard and Poor’s using published conversion tables.194 GSK Annual Report 2011
Financial Notes to the financial statements continued
statements
41 Financial instruments and related The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate
disclosures continued the fair values:
• Cash and cash equivalents – approximates to the
Our centrally managed cash reserves amounted to £3.6 billion at
carrying amount
31 December 2011, all available within 3 months. This excludes
£0.5 billion centrally managed cash held by ViiV Healthcare, an • L iquid investments – based on quoted market prices or
85% owned subsidiary. The Group has invested centrally managed calculated based on observable inputs in the case of marketable
liquid assets in bank deposits and Aaa/AAA rated US Treasury and securities; based on principal amounts in the case of non-
Treasury repo only money market funds (as noted above these bear marketable securities because of their short repricing periods
credit exposure to the US Government (Aaa/AA+ rated)).
• O ther investments – investments traded in an active market
Global counterparty limits are assigned to each of GSK’s banking determined by reference to the relevant stock exchange quoted
and investment counterparties based on long-term credit ratings bid price; other investments determined by reference to the
from Moody’s and Standard and Poor’s. Corporate Treasury’s usage current market value of similar instruments or by reference to
of these limits is monitored daily by a Corporate Compliance Officer the discounted cash flows of the underlying net assets
(CCO) who operates independently of Corporate Treasury. Any
• S hort-term loans and overdrafts – approximates to the carrying
breach of these limits would be reported to the CFO immediately.
amount because of the short maturity of these instruments
The CCO also monitors the credit rating of these counterparties
and, when changes in ratings occur, notifies Corporate Treasury • L ong-term loans – based on quoted market prices in the case
so that changes can be made to investment levels or to authority of the Eurobonds and other fixed rate borrowings; approximates
limits as appropriate. to the carrying amount in the case of floating rate bank loans
and other loans
Wholesale and retail credit risk
• F orward exchange contracts – based on market data and
In the USA, in line with other pharmaceutical companies, the
exchange rates at the balance sheet date
Group sells its products through a small number of wholesalers
in addition to hospitals, pharmacies, physicians and other groups. • Currency swaps – based on market data at the balance
Sales to the three largest wholesalers amount to approximately sheet date
77% of the Group’s US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines turnover.
• I nterest rate swaps – based on the net present value o f
At 31 December 2011, the Group had trade receivables due
discounted cash flows
from these three wholesalers totalling £934 million (2010 –
£890 million). The Group is exposed to a concentration of credit • R eceivables and payables – approximates to the
risk in respect of these wholesalers such that, if one or more of carrying amount
them encounters financial difficulty, it could materially and
• C ompany-owned life insurance policies – based on cash
adversely affect the Group’s financial results.
surrender value
The Group’s credit risk monitoring activities relating to these
• L ease obligations – approximates to the carrying amount.
wholesalers include review of their quarterly financial information
and Standard & Poor’s credit ratings, development of GSK internal Fair value of investments in GSK shares
risk ratings, and establishment and periodic review of credit limits.
At 31 December 2011, the Employee Share Ownership Plan
However, the Group believes there is no further credit risk provision
(ESOP) Trusts held GSK shares with a carrying value of £492 million
required in excess of the normal provision for bad and doubtful
(2010 – £845 million) with a fair value of £1,337 million
debts (see Note 24, ‘Trade and other receivables’). Outside the
(2010 – £1,308 million) based on quoted market price. The shares
USA, no customer accounts for more than 5% of the Group’s
represent purchases by the ESOP Trusts to satisfy future exercises
trade receivables balance.
of options and awards under employee incentive schemes.
Fair value of financial assets and liabilities The carrying value, which is the lower of cost or expected
proceeds, of these shares has been recognised as a deduction
The table on page 195 presents the carrying amounts and the
from other reserves. At 31 December 2011, GSK held Treasury
fair values of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities at
shares at a cost of £6,661 million (2010 – £6,286 million) which
31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010.
has been deducted from retained earnings.
The fair values of the financial assets and liabilities are included at
Committed facilities
the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a
current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced The Group has committed facilities of $4.4 billion (£2.8 billion)
or liquidation sale. (2010 – $3.9 billion (£2.5 billion)) renewable annually. The facilities
were last renewed in October 2011. At 31 December 2011 these
were undrawn.195 GSK Annual Report 2011
41 Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
2011 2010
Carrying Fair Carrying Fair
value value value value
£m £m £m £m
Cash and cash equivalents 5,714 5,714 6,057 6,057
Available-for-sale investments:
Liquid investments:
– Government bonds 175 175 172 172
– other 9 9 12 12
Total liquid investments 184 184 184 184
Other investments 590 590 711 711
Loans and receivables:
Trade and other receivables and certain Other non-current
assets in scope of IAS 39 5,312 5,312 5,667 5,667
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:
Other non-current assets 176 176 187 187
Derivatives designated as at fair value through profit or loss 107 107 97 97
Derivatives classified as held for trading under IAS 39 48 48 93 93
Total financial assets 12,131 12,131 12,996 12,996
Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost:
Borrowings:
– bonds in a designated hedging relationship (5,907) (6,290) (6,029) (6,401)
– other bonds (8,733) (10,627) (8,708) (9,653)
– bank loans and overdrafts (166) (166) (260) (260)
– obligations under finance leases (95) (95) (103) (103)
Total borrowings (14,901) (17,178) (15,100) (16,417)
Trade and other payables, Other provisions and
Other non-current liabilities in scope of IAS 39 (7,105) (7,105) (6,590) (6,590)
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss:
Derivatives designated as at fair value through profit or loss – – (23) (23)
Derivatives classified as held for trading under IAS 39 (177) (177) (170) (170)
Total financial liabilities (22,183) (24,460) (21,883) (23,200)
Net financial assets and financial liabilities (10,052) (12,329) (8,887) (10,204)
Trade and other receivables and certain Other non-current assets as well as Trade and other payables, Other provisions and Other
non-current liabilities are reconciled to the relevant Notes on page 197. For those financial assets and liabilities which are classified
as measured at fair value on the balance sheet, the valuation methodology is described and categorised on page 196. Derivative
balances are analysed by instrument type and hedging programme on page 200.196 GSK Annual Report 2011
Financial Notes to the financial statements continued
statements
41 Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
The following tables categorise the Group’s financial assets and liabilities held at fair value by the valuation methodology applied in
determining their fair value. Where possible, quoted prices in active markets are used (Level 1). Where such prices are not available, the asset
or liability is classified as Level 2, provided all significant inputs to the valuation model used are based on observable market data. If one or
more of the significant inputs to the valuation model is not based on observable market data, the instrument is classified as Level 3. Other
investments classified as Level 3 in the tables below comprise equity investments in unlisted entities with which the Group has entered into
research collaborations and also investments in emerging life science companies.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
At 31 December 2011 £m £m £m £m
Financial assets at fair value
Available–for–sale financial assets:
Liquid investments 172 12 – 184
Other investments 385 – 205 590
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:
Other non-current assets – 176 – 176
Derivatives designated as at fair value through profit or loss – 107 – 107
Derivatives classified as held for trading under IAS 39 – 47 1 48
557 342 206 1,105
Financial liabilities at fair value
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss:
Derivatives designated as at fair value through profit or loss – – – –
Derivatives classified as held for trading under IAS 39 – (176) (1) (177)
– (176) (1) (177)
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
At 31 December 2010 £m £m £m £m
Financial assets at fair value
Available–for–sale financial assets:
Liquid investments 159 25 – 184
Other investments 491 – 220 711
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:
Other non-current assets – 187 – 187
Derivatives designated as at fair value through profit or loss – 97 – 97
Derivatives classified as held for trading under IAS 39 – 92 1 93
650 401 221 1,272
Financial liabilities at fair value
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss:
Derivatives designated as at fair value through profit or loss – (23) – (23)
Derivatives classified as held for trading under IAS 39 – (169) (1) (170)
– (192) (1) (193)
Movements in the year for financial instruments measured using Level 3 valuation methods are presented below:
2011 2010
£m £m
At 1 January 220 209
Losses recognised in the income statement (29) (13)
Gains/(losses) recognised in other comprehensive income 7 (1)
Additions 31 51
Disposals (14) (3)
Transfers from Level 3 (10) (26)
Exchange – 3
At 31 December 205 220
Net losses of £25 million (2010 – £13 million) attributable to Level 3 financial instruments held at the end of the year were reported in
Other operating income. Transfers out of Level 3 of £10 million (2010 – £26 million) relate to equity investments which were listed on stock
exchanges or which were transferred to investments in associates during the year. A reasonably possible change in assumptions is unlikely
to result in a material change in the fair value of the Level 3 instruments.197 GSK Annual Report 2011
41 Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Trade and other receivables and Other non-current assets in scope of IAS 39
The following table reconciles financial assets within Trade and other receivables and Other non-current assets which fall within the scope
of IAS 39 to the relevant balance sheet amounts. The financial assets are predominantly non-interest earning. Financial instruments within
the Other non-current assets balance include company-owned life insurance policies. Other assets include tax receivables, pension surplus
balances and prepayments, which are outside the scope of IAS 39.
2011 2010
Financial Financial
assets at assets at
fair value fair value
through Loans and Financial through Loans and Financial
profit or loss receivables instruments Other Total profit or loss receivables instruments Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Trade and other receivables
(Note 24) – 5,055 5,055 521 5,576 – 5,378 5,378 415 5,793
Other non-current assets
(Note 22) 176 257 433 92 525 187 289 476 80 556
176 5,312 5,488 613 6,101 187 5,667 5,854 495 6,349
The following table shows the age of such financial assets which are past due and for which no provision for bad or doubtful debts has
been made:
2011 2010
£m £m
Past due by 1–30 days 191 134
Past due by 31–90 days 92 138
Past due by 91–180 days 80 61
Past due by 181–365 days 60 66
Past due by more than 365 days 81 67
504 466
Amounts past due by greater than 90 days and for which no provision for bad or doubtful debts has been made total £221 million
(2010 – £194 million). Of this balance £136 million (2010 – £113 million) relates to receivables due from state hospital authorities in Greece,
Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain. The total receivables due from state hospital authorities in these countries (current and past due, net of
provisions) is £293 million (2010 – £343 million).
Trade and other payables, Other provisions and Other non-current liabilities in scope of IAS 39
The following table reconciles financial liabilities within Trade and other payables, Other provisions and Other non-current liabilities which
fall within the scope of IAS 39 to the relevant balance sheet amounts. The financial liabilities are predominantly non-interest bearing.
Accrued wages and salaries are included within financial liabilities. Other liabilities include payments on account, tax and social security
payables and provisions which do not constitute contractual obligations to deliver cash or another financial asset, which are outside the
scope of IAS 39.
2011 2010
Financial Financial
instruments Other Total instruments Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Trade and other payables (Note 27) (6,951) (408) (7,359) (6,320) (568) (6,888)
Other provisions (Note 29) (62) (3,572) (3,634) (54) (5,230) (5,284)
Other non-current liabilities (Note 30) (92) (534) (626) (216) (378) (594)
(7,105) (4,514) (11,619) (6,590) (6,176) (12,766)198 GSK Annual Report 2011
Financial Notes to the financial statements continued
statements
41 Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Debt interest rate repricing table
The following table sets out the exposure of the Group to interest rates on debt before and after the effect of interest rate swaps.
The maturity analysis of fixed rate debt is stated by contractual maturity and of floating rate debt by interest rate repricing dates.
For the purpose of this table, debt is defined as all classes of borrowings other than obligations under finance leases.
2011 2010
Effect of Effect of
interest interest
Debt rate swaps Total Debt rate swaps Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Floating and fixed rate debt less than one year (2,664) (1,046) (3,710) (259) (1,049) (1,308)
Between one and two years (1,611) – (1,611) (2,559) – (2,559)
Between two and three years (1,046) 1,046 – (1,599) – (1,599)
Between three and four years (1,326) – (1,326) (1,049) 1,049 –
Between four and five years – – – (1,358) – (1,358)
Between five and ten years (2,806) – (2,806) (2,819) – (2,819)
Greater than ten years (5,353) – (5,353) (5,354) – (5,354)
Total (14,806) – (14,806) (14,997) – (14,997)
Original issuance profile:
Fixed rate interest (14,639) 1,046 (13,593) (14,757) 1,049 (13,708)
Floating rate interest (166) (1,046) (1,212) (239) (1,049) (1,288)
Total interest bearing (14,805) – (14,805) (14,996) – (14,996)
Non-interest bearing (1) – (1) (1) – (1)
(14,806) – (14,806) (14,997) – (14,997)
The Group holds interest rate swaps, designated as fair value hedges, to convert £1,046 million of fixed rate debt with a maturity between
two and three years (2010: £1,049 million with a maturity between three and four years) into a floating rate exposure.
Sensitivity analysis
The sensitivity analysis has been prepared on the assumption that the amount of net debt, the ratio of fixed to floating interest rates of the
debt and derivatives portfolio and the proportion of financial instruments in foreign currencies are all constant and on the basis of the
hedge designations in place at 31 December.
Financial instruments affected by market risk include borrowings, deposits and derivative financial instruments. The following analyses are
intended to illustrate the sensitivity of such financial instruments to changes in relevant foreign exchange and interest rates.
Foreign exchange sensitivity
The tables below show the Group’s sensitivity to foreign exchange rates on its US dollar, Euro and Yen financial instruments
excluding obligations under finance leases and certain non-derivative financial instruments not in net debt and which do not present
a material exposure. These three currencies are the major foreign currencies in which GSK’s financial instruments are denominated.
GSK has considered movements in these currencies over the last three years and has concluded that a 10 cent or 20 yen movement
in rates against GBP is a reasonable benchmark. In the table below, financial instruments are only considered sensitive to foreign
exchange rates where they are not in the functional currency of the entity that holds them. Inter-company loans which are fully
hedged to maturity with a currency swap have been excluded from this analysis.
2011 2010
Increase Reduction Increase Reduction
Non-functional currency foreign exchange exposure in income in equity in income in equity
£m £m £m £m
10 cent appreciation of the US dollar (2010: 31 cent) 137 – 386 –
10 cent appreciation of the Euro (2010: 23 cent) 16 760 35 1,697
20 yen appreciation of the Yen (2010: 25 yen) 1 – – –
An equivalent depreciation of the stated currencies would have an equal and opposite effect.
The movements in the income statement relate primarily to hedging instruments for US legal provisions, and to trade payables and trade
receivables. Whilst the hedging instruments provide economic hedges, the related provisions are not financial instruments and therefore
are not included in the table above. The combined sensitivity of these hedging instruments and the provisions would be insignificant if
the provisions were included.
The movements in equity relate to foreign exchange positions used to hedge Group assets denominated in Euro. Therefore, a movement
in the value of the currency swap is largely offset by a corresponding opposite movement in the Group asset. Foreign exchange
sensitivity on Group assets other than financial instruments is not included above.199 GSK Annual Report 2011
41 Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
The table below presents the Group’s sensitivity to foreign exchange rates based on the composition of net debt.
2011 2010
Increase/(decrease) Increase/(decrease)
Impact of foreign exchange movements on net debt in net debt in net debt
£m £m
10 cent appreciation of the US dollar (2010: 31 cent) 392 1,164
10 cent appreciation of the Euro (2010: 23 cent) (21) (149)
20 yen appreciation of the Yen (2010: 25 yen) (70) (13)
An equivalent depreciation of the stated currencies would have an equal and opposite effect.
Interest rate sensitivity
The table below shows the Group’s sensitivity to interest rates on its floating rate Sterling, US dollar and Euro financial instruments, being the
currencies in which GSK has historically issued debt and held investments. GSK has considered movements in these interest rates over the last
three years and has concluded that a 1% (100 basis points) increase is a reasonable benchmark. Debt with a maturity of less than one year is
floating rate for this calculation. Interest rate movements on derivative financial instruments designated as fair value hedges are deemed to
have an immaterial effect on the Group Income Statement due to compensating amounts in the carrying value of debt. A 1% (100 basis
points) movement in interest rates is not deemed to have a material effect on equity.
2011 2010
Increase/(decrease) Increase/(decrease)
in income in income
£m £m
1% (100 basis points) increase in Sterling interest rates (2010: 2%) 7 14
1% (100 basis points) increase in US dollar interest rates (2010: 2%) 12 16
1% (100 basis points) increase in Euro interest rates (2010: 2%) (15) 31
These interest rates could not be decreased by 1% as they are currently less than 1.0%. The maximum increase/(decrease) in income would
therefore be limited to (£5 million), (£1 million) and £14 million for Sterling, US Dollar and Euro interest rates respectively (2010 – (£4 million),
(£2 million) and (£9 million)).
Contractual cash flows for non-derivative financial liabilities and derivative instruments
The following is an analysis of the anticipated contractual cash flows including interest payable for the Group’s non-derivative financial
liabilities on an undiscounted basis. The impact of interest rate swaps has been excluded. For the purpose of this table, debt is defined
as all classes of borrowings except for obligations under finance leases. Interest is calculated based on debt held at 31 December
without taking account of future issuance. Floating rate interest is estimated using the prevailing interest rate at the balance sheet date.
Cash flows in foreign currencies are translated using spot rates at 31 December.
Finance charge Trade payables
Obligations on obligations and other
Interest on under finance under finance liabilities not
At 31 December 2011 Debt debt leases leases in net debt Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Due in less than one year (2,665) (750) (34) (3) (6,730) (10,182)
Between one and two years (1,613) (636) (24) (3) (223) (2,499)
Between two and three years (968) (558) (15) (3) (59) (1,603)
Between three and four years (1,333) (515) (11) (1) (61) (1,921)
Between four and five years – (463) (3) (1) (5) (472)
Between five and ten years (2,816) (1,784) (8) – (22) (4,630)
Greater than ten years (5,422) (4,785) – – (5) (10,212)
Gross contractual cash flows (14,817) (9,491) (95) (11) (7,105) (31,519)
Finance charge Trade payables
Obligations on obligations and other
Interest on under finance under finance liabilities not
At 31 December 2010 Debt debt leases leases in net debt Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Due in less than one year (259) (755) (32) (5) (6,280) (7,331)
Between one and two years (2,564) (756) (27) (5) (178) (3,530)
Between two and three years (1,603) (638) (18) (3) (35) (2,297)
Between three and four years (962) (559) (11) (2) (57) (1,591)
Between four and five years (1,368) (538) (7) (1) (7) (1,921)
Between five and ten years (2,831) (2,053) (8) – (21) (4,913)
Greater than ten years (5,425) (5,013) – – (12) (10,450)
Gross contractual cash flows (15,012) (10,312) (103) (16) (6,590) (32,033)200 GSK Annual Report 2011
Financial Notes to the financial statements continued
statements
41 Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
The following table provides an analysis of the anticipated contractual cash flows for the Group’s derivative instruments, excluding
embedded derivatives and equity options which are not material, using undiscounted cash flows. Cash flows in foreign currencies are
translated using spot rates at 31 December. The gross cash flows of foreign exchange contracts are presented for the purposes of
this table, though, in practice, the Group uses standard settlement arrangements to reduce its liquidity requirements on these instruments.
The amounts receivable and payable in less than one year have increased compared to 2010 due to higher levels of hedging of inter-
company loans, deposits and legal provisions. This is indicated by the increased principal amounts shown in the table below.
2011 2010
Receivables Payables Receivables Payables
£m £m £m £m
Less than one year 17,141 (17,209) 13,555 (13,511)
Between one and two years 38 (4) 288 (365)
Between two and three years 19 (2) 31 (10)
Between three and four years – – 14 (7)
Gross contractual cash flows 17,198 (17,215) 13,888 (13,893)
Derivative financial instruments and hedging programmes
The following table sets out the fair values of derivatives held by GSK.
2011 2010
Fair value Fair value
Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities
£m £m £m £m
Fair value hedges – Interest rate swaps
(principal amount – £968 million (2010 – £962 million)) 84 – 97 –
Net investment hedges – Foreign exchange contracts
(principal amount – £4,260 million (2010 – £3,506 million)) 23 – – (23)
Derivatives designated as at fair value through profit or loss 107 – 97 (23)
Foreign exchange contracts
(principal amount – £13,280 million (2010 – £10,609 million)) 44 (172) 88 (160)
Embedded and other derivatives 4 (5) 5 (10)
Derivatives classified as held for trading under IAS 39 48 (177) 93 (170)
Total derivative instruments 155 (177) 190 (193)
Analysed as:
Current 70 (175) 93 (188)
Non-current 85 (2) 97 (5)
Total 155 (177) 190 (193)
Derivative financial instruments
The principal amount on foreign exchange contracts is the absolute total of outstanding positions at the balance sheet date. The majority
of contracts are for periods of 12 months or less. At 31 December 2011, the Group held outstanding foreign exchange contracts
consisting primarily of currency swaps with a net credit fair value of £128 million (2010 – £72 million credit) which represent hedges of
inter-company loans, deposits and legal provisions, but are not designated as accounting hedges. Changes in fair value are taken to the
income statement in the period to offset the exchange gains and losses on the related inter-company lending and borrowing.
Cash flow hedges
The Group had no designated cash flow hedges during 2011. The group carries a balance in reserves that arose from pre-hedging the
interest rate exposure of Euro and Sterling bonds issued in 2005 and 2007. The balance is reclassified to finance costs over the life of
these bonds.201 GSK Annual Report 2011
41 Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Fair value hedges
The Group has designated a series of interest rate swaps as a fair value hedge. The risk being hedged is the variability of the fair value
of the bond arising from interest rate fluctuations. Gains and losses on fair value hedges are disclosed in Note 12, ‘Finance costs’.
Net investment hedges
During the year, certain foreign exchange contracts were designated as net investment hedges in respect of the foreign currency
translation risk arising on consolidation of the Group’s net investment in its Euro foreign operations. During 2010, foreign exchange
contracts were also designated as net investment hedges of the Group’s net investment in its US Dollar and Yen foreign operations.
At 31 December 2011 and at 31 December 2010, the Group held such net investment hedges only in respect of its Euro foreign
operations. In addition, Euro loan capital of €5.85 billion issued in previous years is designated as a net investment hedge in respect of the
foreign currency translation risk arising on consolidation of the Group’s net investment in its Euro operations.
42 Employee share schemes
The Group operates share option schemes, whereby options are granted to employees to acquire shares or ADS in GlaxoSmithKline plc
at the grant price, savings-related share option schemes and share award schemes. In addition, GSK operates the Performance Share
Plan, whereby awards are granted to employees to acquire shares or ADS in GlaxoSmithKline plc at no cost, subject to the achievement
by the Group of specified performance targets and the Share Value Plan, whereby awards are granted to employees to acquire shares
or ADS in GlaxoSmithKline plc at no cost after a three year vesting period. The granting of restricted share awards has replaced the
granting of options to employees as the cost of the scheme more readily equates to the potential gain to be made by the employee
and from 2010 onwards, no further grants will be made under the savings-related share option schemes.
Grants under share option schemes are normally exercisable between three and ten years from the date of grant. Grants of restricted
shares and share awards are normally exercisable at the end of the three year vesting/performance period. Grants under savings-related
share option schemes are normally exercisable after three years’ saving. Grants under share option schemes and awards under the
Performance Share Plan are normally granted to employees to acquire shares or ADS in GSK plc but in some circumstances will be settled
in cash. Options under the share option schemes are granted at the market price ruling at the date of grant. In accordance with UK
practice, the majority of options under the savings-related share option schemes are granted at a price 20% below the market price
ruling at the date of grant. Share options awarded to the Directors and, with effect from the 2004 grant, the CET are subject to
performance criteria.
Option pricing
For the purposes of valuing options and awards to arrive at the share based payment charge, the Black-Scholes option pricing model has
been used. The assumptions used in the model for 2009, 2010 and 2011 are as follows:
2011 2010 2009
Risk-free interest rate 0.5% – 1.9% 0.8% – 1.9% 1.4% – 2.9%
Dividend yield* 5.8% 5.3% 5.2%
Volatility 24% – 28% 26% – 29% 23% – 29%
Expected lives of options granted under:
Share option schemes 5 years 5 years 5 years
Savings-related share option and share award schemes 3-4 years 3-4 years 3-4 years
Weighted average share price for grants in the year:
Shares £11.90 £12.04 £11.72
ADS $39.10 $37.29 $33.73
* 0% for those plans where dividends are reinvested.
Volatility is determined based on the three and five year share price history where appropriate. The fair value of performance share plan
grants take into account market conditions. Expected lives of options were determined based on weighted average historic exercises
of options.202 GSK Annual Report 2011
Financial Notes to the financial statements continued
statements
42 Employee share schemes continued
Share option Share option Savings-related
Options outstanding
schemes – shares schemes – ADS share option schemes
Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted
Number exercise fair Number exercise fair Number exercise fair
000 price value 000 price value 000 price value
At 1 January 2009 136,555 £14.93 75,478 $49.29 11,254 £10.38
Options granted 11,393 £11.76 £1.16 7,741 $33.68 $3.41 1,648 £9.72 £2.22
Options exercised (2,660) £11.80 (353) $37.03 (1,460) £11.34
Options lapsed (21,269) £17.18 (9,447) $55.64 (3,377) £11.09
At 31 December 2009 124,019 £14.32 73,419 $46.88 8,065 £9.77
Options granted 11,257 £12.04 £1.19 7,384 $37.29 $3.95 – – –
Options exercised (3,625) £11.86 (916) $36.59 (1,310) £10.45
Options lapsed (21,551) £15.10 (7,776) $49.62 (800) £10.02
At 31 December 2010 110,100 £14.02 72,111 $45.73 5,955 £9.59
Options granted – – – – – – – – –
Options exercised (14,618) £11.97 (3,883) $38.61 (4,068) £9.55
Options lapsed (35,112) £17.27 (23,338) $51.21 (317) £9.70
At 31 December 2011 60,370 £12.62 44,890 $43.50 1,570 £9.68
Range of exercise prices £10.76 – £17.15 $33.42 – $58.00 £9.51 – £10.50
Weighted average market
price on exercise £13.41 $42.66 £13.80
Weighted average remaining
contractual life 4.79 years 4.85 years 1.10 years
Share option Share option Savings-related
Options outstanding schemes – shares schemes – ADS share option schemes
at 31 December 2011 Weighted Latest Weighted Latest Weighted Latest
Number exercise exercise Number exercise exercise Number Exercise exercise
Year of grant
000 price date 000 price date 000 price date
2002 6,591 £12.08 03.12.12 2,765 $37.92 03.12.12 – – –
2003 10,785 £12.67 16.12.13 7,676 $43.66 16.12.13 – – –
2004 3,345 £11.22 03.12.14 4,569 $43.23 02.12.14 – – –
2005 123 £13.15 02.11.15 337 $47.30 02.11.15 – – –
2006 6,267 £14.69 28.11.16 4,764 $51.32 28.07.16 – – –
2007 7,136 £14.81 25.07.17 5,220 $57.46 25.07.17 – – –
2008 6,093 £11.49 27.07.18 6,399 $44.98 05.11.18 320 £9.51 23.04.12
2009 9,799 £11.76 22.07.19 6,522 $33.68 22.07.19 1,250 £9.72 22.04.13
2010 10,231 £12.04 21.07.20 6,638 $37.28 21.07.20 – – –
Total 60,370 £12.62 44,890 $43.50 1,570 £9.68
Options normally become exercisable from three years from the date of grant but may, under certain circumstances, vest earlier as set out
within the various scheme rules.
There has been no change in the effective exercise price of any outstanding options during the year.
Share option Share option Savings-related
Options exercisable schemes - shares schemes - ADS share option schemes
Weighted Weighted Weighted
Number exercise Number exercise Number exercise
000 price 000 price 000 price
At 31 December 2009 94,967 £14.86 53,493 $47.63 254 £11.40
At 31 December 2010 81,362 £14.80 53,831 $48.26 175 £10.50
At 31 December 2011 42,432 £12.92 33,143 $46.33 – –203 GSK Annual Report 2011
42 Employee share schemes continued
GlaxoSmithKline share award schemes
Performance Share Plan
The Group operates a Performance Share Plan whereby awards are granted to Directors and senior executives at no cost. The percentage of
each award that vests is based upon the performance of the Group over a defined measurement period with dividends reinvested during
the same period. For awards granted from 2011 onwards to Directors and members of the CET, the performance conditions are based on
four equally weighted measures over a three year performance period. The first measure is based on the achievement of adjusted free cash
flow targets. The second measure is based on relative TSR performance against a comparator group. The remaining two measures are based
on business-specific performance measures on business diversification and R&D new product performance. For details on the calculation of
these measures, see the Remuneration Report on pages 106 to 133.
For awards granted in 2009 and 2010 to Directors and members of the CET, 40% of the award is based on the achievement of adjusted
free cash flow targets over a three year measurement period. The remaining 60% of the award is based on relative TSR performance
against a comparator group as described on pages 112 and 114. Half of the TSR element of each award is measured over three years and
half over four years. Awards granted to Directors and members of the CET prior to 2009 are subject to a single performance condition
which compares GSK’s TSR over the period with the TSR of companies in the comparator group over the same period.
For those awards made to all other eligible employees prior to 2009 the performance conditions consist of two parts, each of which
applies to 50% of the award. The first part of the performance condition compares GSK’s EPS growth to the increase in the UK Retail
Prices Index over the three year measurement period. The second part of the performance condition compares GSK’s TSR over the period
with the TSR of companies in the comparator group over the same period. For awards granted from 2009 onwards, the first part of the
performance condition continues to be based on EPS. The second part of the performance condition is based on strategic or operational
business measures, over a three year measurement period, specific to the employee’s business area.
Shares Weighted ADS Weighted
Number of shares and ADS issuable Number (000) fair value Number (000) fair value
At 1 January 2009 6,535 3,858
Awards granted 3,365 £8.80 1,392 $29.45
Awards exercised (1,270) (21)
Awards cancelled (1,024) (1,497)
At 31 December 2009 7,606 3,732
Awards granted 3,812 £9.13 1,624 $29.91
Awards exercised (440) (386)
Awards cancelled (2,085) (1,357)
At 31 December 2010 8,893 3,613
Awards granted 4,712 £9.66 1,740 $31.65
Awards exercised (660) (315)
Awards cancelled (2,404) (1,112)
At 31 December 2011 10,541 3,926
During the year 484,000 additional shares and 212,000 additional ADS were awarded through dividends reinvested.
Share Value Plan
The Group operates a Share Value Plan whereby awards are granted, in the form of shares, to certain employees at no cost. The awards
vest after three years. There are no performance criteria attached.
Shares Weighted ADS Weighted
Number (000) fair value Number (000) fair value
At 1 January 2009 13,688 11,362
Awards granted 5,572 £9.86 4,291 $30.53
Awards exercised (4,345) (3,783)
Awards cancelled (680) (561)
At 31 December 2009 14,235 11,309
Awards granted 5,844 £10.04 4,355 $31.30
Awards exercised (4,993) (3,939)
Awards cancelled (834) (747)
At 31 December 2010 14,252 10,978
Awards granted 10,923 £9.78 7,481 $32.02
Awards exercised (4,677) (3,698)
Awards cancelled (1,040) (680)
At 31 December 2011 19,458 14,081204 GSK Annual Report 2011
Financial Notes to the financial statements continued
statements
42 Employee share schemes continued
Deferred Investment Award Plan
The Group operates a Deferred Investment Award Plan whereby awards are granted, in the form of notional shares, to certain senior
executives at no cost. Awards typically vest over a three-year period commencing on the fourth anniversary from date of grant with
50% of the award initially vesting and then 25% in each of the subsequent two years. There are no performance criteria attached.
Shares Weighted ADS Weighted
Number of shares and ADS issuable Number (000) fair value Number (000) fair value
At 1 January 2009 538 119
Awards granted 46 £12.04 132 $31.94
Awards exercised (15) (32)
Awards cancelled (20) (10)
At 31 December 2009 549 209
Awards granted 290 £12.20 96 $36.85
Awards exercised (72) (9)
Awards cancelled (23) (16)
At 31 December 2010 744 280
Awards granted 114 £12.54 50 $42.98
Awards exercised (77) (19)
Awards cancelled (19) (16)
At 31 December 2011 762 295
During the year 46,000 additional shares and 16,000 additional ADS were awarded through dividends reinvested.
Employee Share Ownership Plan Trusts
The Group sponsors Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) Trusts to acquire and hold shares in GlaxoSmithKline plc to satisfy awards
made under employee incentive plans and options granted under employee share option schemes. The trustees of the ESOP Trusts
purchase shares on the open market with finance provided by the Group by way of loans or contributions. Costs of running the ESOP
Trusts are charged to the income statement. Shares held by the ESOP Trusts are deducted from other reserves and held at the value of
proceeds receivable from employees on exercise. If there is deemed to be a permanent diminution in value this is reflected by a transfer
to retained earnings. The Trusts also acquire and hold shares to meet notional dividends re-invested on deferred awards under the
SmithKline Beecham Mid-Term Incentive Plan. The trustees have waived their rights to dividends on the shares held by the ESOP Trusts.
Shares held for share award schemes 2011 2010
Number of shares (‘000) 60,358 51,125
£m £m
Nominal value 15 13
Carrying value 296 208
Market value 887 634
Shares held for share option schemes 2011 2010
Number of shares (‘000) 30,565 54,347
£m £m
Nominal value 8 14
Carrying value 196 637
Market value 450 674205 GSK Annual Report 2011
43 Principal Group companies
The following represent the principal subsidiary and associated undertakings of the GlaxoSmithKline Group at 31 December 2011.
Details are given of the principal country of operation, the location of the headquarters, the business sector and the business activities.
The equity share capital of these undertakings is wholly owned by the Group except where its percentage interest is shown otherwise.
All companies are incorporated in their principal country of operation except where stated.
Europe Location Subsidiary Sector Activity %
England Brentford GlaxoSmithKline Holdings Limited * Ph,CH h
Brentford GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (One) Limited * Ph,CH h
Brentford GlaxoSmithKline Services Unlimited * Ph,CH s
Brentford GlaxoSmithKline Mercury Limited * Ph h
Brentford GlaxoSmithKline Finance plc Ph,CH f
Brentford GlaxoSmithKline Capital plc Ph,CH f
Brentford SmithKline Beecham Limited Ph,CH d e h m p r
Brentford Wellcome Limited Ph,CH h
Brentford Glaxo Group Limited Ph h
Brentford Glaxo Operations UK Limited Ph p
Brentford GlaxoSmithKline Export Limited Ph e
Brentford GlaxoSmithKline Research & Development Limited Ph d r
Brentford GlaxoSmithKline UK Limited Ph m p
Brentford Glaxochem Pte Ltd (i) Ph h
Brentford Setfirst Limited Ph,CH h
Brentford The Wellcome Foundation Limited Ph p
Cambridge Domantis Limited Ph d r
Brentford ViiV Healthcare Limited Ph h 85
Brentford ViiV Healthcare UK Limited Ph m s 85
Brentford ViiV Healthcare Trading Services UK Limited Ph e f 85
Austria Vienna GlaxoSmithKline Pharma GmbH Ph m
Belgium Wavre GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals S.A. Ph m
Rixensart GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals S.A. Ph d e m p r
Czech Republic Prague GlaxoSmithKline s.r.o. Ph,CH m
Denmark Orestadt GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare A/S CH e m
Brøndby GlaxoSmithKline Pharma A/S Ph m
Finland Espoo GlaxoSmithKline Oy Ph m
France Marly le Roi Groupe GlaxoSmithKline S.A.S. Ph h
Marly le Roi Laboratoire GlaxoSmithKline S.A.S. Ph m r d
Marly le Roi Glaxo Wellcome Production S.A.S. Ph p
Marly le Roi GlaxoSmithKline Sante Grand Public S.A.S. CH m
Marly le Roi ViiV Healthcare S.A.S. Ph m 85
St. Amand Les Eaux GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals S.A.S. Ph p
Germany Buehl GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare GmbH & Co. KG CH d h m p r s
Munich GlaxoSmithKline GmbH & Co. KG Ph d h m s
Greece Athens GlaxoSmithKline A.E.B.E Ph,CH m
Hungary Budapest GlaxoSmithKline Medicine and Healthcare Products Limited Ph,CH e m
Italy Verona GlaxoSmithKline S.p.A. Ph d h m
Milan GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare S.p.A. CH m
Verona GlaxoSmithKline Manufacturing S.p.A. Ph p
Luxembourg Mamer GlaxoSmithKline International (Luxembourg) S.A.R.L Ph,CH f h
Netherlands Zeist GlaxoSmithKline B.V. Ph m
Zeist GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare B.V. CH m
Norway Oslo GlaxoSmithKline AS Ph m
Poland Poznan GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals S.A. Ph p
Poznan GSK Services Sp.z o.o. Ph m s
Warsaw GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Sp.z o.o. CH m e
Portugal Alges GlaxoSmithKline-Produtos Farmaceuticos, Limitada Ph m206 GSK Annual Report 2011
Financial Notes to the financial statements continued
statements
43 Principal Group companies continued
Europe Location Subsidiary Sector Activity %
Republic of Carrigaline SmithKline Beecham (Cork) Limited (ii) Ph d p r
Ireland Cork GlaxoSmithKline Trading Services Limited (ii) Ph e
Dublin GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (Ireland) Limited (ii) CH m
Dublin GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited (ii) Ph m
Dungarvan Stafford Miller (Ireland) Limited (ii) CH p
Dungarvan GlaxoSmithKline Dungarvan Limited (ii) CH p
Sligo Stiefel Laboratories (Ireland) Limited (ii) Ph p
Romania Brasov Europharm Holding S.A. Ph,CH s
Bucharest GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) S.R.L. Ph m r s
Russian Moscow GlaxoSmithKline Trading ZAO Ph m
Federation Moscow GlaxoSmithKline Healthcare ZAO CH m
Spain Madrid GlaxoSmithKline S.A. Ph m
Madrid GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare S.A. CH m
Aranda de Duero Glaxo Wellcome, S.A. Ph p
Sweden Solna GlaxoSmithKline AB Ph m
Switzerland Muenchenbuchsee GlaxoSmithKline AG Ph m
USA
USA Research Triangle Park Stiefel Laboratories, Inc. Ph h m p
Marietta Corixa Corporation Ph p r
Philadelphia GlaxoSmithKline LLC Ph,CH d e h m p r s
Pittsburgh GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare, L.P. CH m p 88
Pittsburgh Block Drug Company, Inc. CH h m
Wilmington GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (Americas) Inc. Ph,CH h
Wilmington GlaxoSmithKline Capital Inc. Ph f
Cambridge Sirtris Pharmaceuticals Inc. Ph r
Research Triangle Park ViiV Healthcare Company Ph m 85
Americas
Bermuda Hamilton GlaxoSmithKline Insurance Ltd Ph,CH i
Canada Mississauga GlaxoSmithKline Inc. Ph m p r
Mississauga GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Inc. CH m
Laval ID Biomedical Corporation of Quebec Ph d e p r
Mexico Delegacion Tlalpan GlaxoSmithKline Mexico S.A. de C.V. Ph,CH e m p s
Asia Pacific
Australia Boronia GlaxoSmithKline Australia Pty Ltd Ph,CH d e m p r
China Beijing GlaxoSmithKline (China) Investment Co. Ltd Ph,CH h m s
Hong Kong GlaxoSmithKline Limited Ph,CH m
Shanghai GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals (Shanghai) Ltd Ph m p
Tianjin Sino-American Tianjin Smith Kline & French Laboratories Ltd CH d e m p 55
India Mumbai GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Limited Ph m p 51
New Delhi GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Limited (iii) CH d e m p r s 43
Malaysia Petaling Jaya GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceutical Sdn Bhd Ph m
Selangor GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Sdn Bhd CH m
New Zealand Auckland GlaxoSmithKline NZ Limited Ph,CH d m
Pakistan Karachi GlaxoSmithKline Pakistan Limited Ph,CH e m p r 83
Philippines Makati GlaxoSmithKline Philippines Inc Ph,CH d e m
Singapore Singapore Glaxo Wellcome Manufacturing Pte Ltd Ph d e p r s
Singapore GlaxoSmithKline Pte Ltd Ph,CH d e m r s
South Korea Seoul GlaxoSmithKline Korea Limited Ph ,CH m
Thailand Bangkok GlaxoSmithKline (Thailand) Limited Ph,CH m207 GSK Annual Report 2011
43 Principal Group companies continued
Japan Location Subsidiary Sector Activity %
Japan Tokyo GlaxoSmithKline K.K. Ph,CH d m p
Latin America
Argentina Buenos Aires GlaxoSmithKline Argentina S.A. Ph,CH e m p r
Buenos Aires Laboratorios Phoenix Sociedad Anonima Industrial
Comercial y Financiera Ph d e m p r
Brazil Rio de Janeiro GlaxoSmithKline Brasil Limitada Ph,CH d e m p
Colombia Bogota GlaxoSmithKline Colombia S.A. Ph,CH m
Venezuela Caracas GlaxoSmithKline Venezuela, C.A. Ph,CH m
Middle East & Africa
Egypt Cairo GlaxoSmithKline S.A.E Ph,CH e m p 91
South Africa Johannesburg GlaxoSmithKline South Africa (Pty) Limited Ph,CH e m p
Turkey Istanbul GlaxoSmithKline Ilaclari Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S. Ph,CH m
Middle East & Africa Associate
South Africa Johannesburg Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Limited (iv) Ph,CH m p r 19
(i) Incorporated in Singapore.
(ii) Exempt from the provisions of Section 7 of the Companies (Amendment) Act 1986 (Ireland).
(iii) C onsolidated as a subsidiary undertaking in accordance with Section 1162 (4)(a) of the Companies Act 2006 on the grounds of
dominant influence.
(iv) E quity accounted on the grounds of significant influence.
* Directly held wholly owned subsidiary of GlaxoSmithKline plc.
Key
Business sector: Ph Pharmaceuticals, CH Consumer Healthcare
Business activity: d development, e exporting, f finance, h holding company, i insurance, m marketing, p production, r research,
s service
Full details of all Group subsidiary and associated undertakings will be attached to the company’s Annual Return to be filed with the
Registrar of Companies. Each of GlaxoSmithKline Capital Inc. and GlaxoSmithKline Capital plc is a wholly-owned finance subsidiary of
the company, and the company has fully and unconditionally guaranteed the securities issued by each of GlaxoSmithKline Capital Inc.
and GlaxoSmithKline Capital plc.208 GSK Annual Report 2011
Financial Notes to the financial statements continued
statements
44 Legal proceedings Intellectual property
Advair/Seretide
The Group is involved in significant legal and administrative
proceedings, principally product liability, intellectual property, A number of companies have challenged the Group’s patents
tax, anti-trust and governmental investigations, as well as covering Advair/Seretide (salmeterol/fluticasone propionate) in
related private litigation. The Group makes provision for these certain European jurisdictions, including in the UK, Belgium,
proceedings on a regular basis as summarised in Note 2, France, Germany, Ireland and the Netherlands. On 23 February
‘Accounting principles and policies’ and Note 29, ‘Other 2010, in actions brought by Mylan Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Hexal
provisions’. The Group may become involved in significant legal Pharmaceuticals (‘Hexal’), Neolab Ltd. and Ivax International, the
proceedings in respect of which it is not possible to make a Federal Court in Munich revoked the Group’s German Seretide
reliable estimate of the expected financial effect, if any, that combination patent for lack of inventive step. The Group has
could result from ultimate resolution of the proceedings. In appealed this decision. In the Netherlands, in an action brought
these cases, appropriate disclosures about such cases would be by Sandoz Pharmaceuticals (‘Sandoz’) and Hexal, the District
included but no provision would be made. Court of The Hague on 26 January 2011 revoked the
Supplementary Protection Certificate (SPC) which extends
With respect to each of the legal proceedings described below,
protection for the product until September 2013.
other than those for which a provision has been made, the Group
is unable to make a reliable estimate of the expected financial A revocation action against the basic patent covering the Seretide
effect at this stage. The Group does not believe that information combination in Ireland was filed in the High Court in Dublin on
about the amount sought by the plaintiffs, if that is known, behalf of Ivax in July 2008. The High Court handed down a
would be meaningful with respect to those legal proceedings. decision on 26 June 2009 finding the patent invalid for
This is due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, obviousness. The Group filed an appeal of this decision in
the stage of proceedings; the entitlement of parties to appeal a October 2009. No trial date has been set for the appeal.
decision; and clarity as to theories of liability, damages and
There are currently no generic salmeterol/fluticasone
governing law. Intellectual property claims include challenges to
proportionate products in any of these markets.
the validity and enforceability of the Group’s patents on various
products or processes as well as assertions of non-infringement On 4 July 2011, the Group entered into a settlement agreement
of those patents. A loss in any of these cases could result in loss with Sandoz pursuant to which the parties resolved all pending
of patent protection for the product at issue. The consequences litigation relating to the Group’s combination patents for Seretide
of any such loss could be a significant decrease in sales of that in Europe. The settlement agreement provides that the Group will
product and could materially affect future results of operations not pursue legal action under its combination patents against
for the Group. Sandoz to block its launch of a generic salmeterol/fluticasone
propionate product in any European country. Sandoz has not
Legal expenses incurred and provisions related to legal claims are
received regulatory approval for a salmeterol/fluticasone
charged to selling, general and administration costs. Provisions
proportionate product in any European country as of this date.
are made, after taking appropriate legal and other specialist
advice, where an outflow of resources is considered probable Argatroban
and a reliable estimate can be made of the likely outcome of the
In December 2007, Encysive Pharmaceuticals Inc., Mitsubishi Kasei
dispute. In respect of product liability claims related to certain
Corporation and the Group filed an action in the United States
products, there is sufficient history of claims made and
District Court for the Southern District of New York against Barr
settlements to enable management to make a reliable estimate
Laboratories, Inc. for infringement of Mitsubishi’s pharmaceutical
of the provision required to cover unasserted claims. In certain
composition patent covering argatroban. Pursuant to a licence
cases an incurred but not reported (IBNR) estimate using actuarial
from Mitsubishi, Encysive developed argatroban for the treatment
techniques as appropriate is used to determine and estimate the
of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia and holds the New Drug
Group’s exposure, as described in Note 29, ‘Other provisions’.
Application approved by the US Food and Drug Administration
At 31 December 2011, the Group’s aggregate provision for legal
(‘FDA’). Encysive licensed the US marketing rights for argatroban
and other disputes (not including tax matters described in
to the Group. The Mitsubishi patent expires in June 2014. Barr
Note 14, ‘Taxation’) was £2.8 billion. The ultimate liability for
(now Teva Pharmaceuticals, Inc.) filed an Abbreviated New Drug
legal claims may vary from the amounts provided and is
Application (‘ANDA’) with the FDA with a certification of
dependent upon the outcome of litigation proceedings,
invalidity, unenforceability and non-infringement of the Mitsubishi
investigations and possible settlement negotiations.
patent. On 17 June 2010, the Group and its partners prevailed
The Group’s position could change over time, and, therefore, against Teva, with the trial judge ruling that Mitsubishi’s patent
there can be no assurance that any losses that result from the covering the formulation for injectable argatroban was infringed
outcome of any legal proceedings will not exceed by a material and not invalid. On 2 August 2011, the United States Court of
amount, the amount of the provisions reported in the Group’s Appeal for the Federal Circuit affirmed the decision. As a result of
financial accounts. If this were to happen, it could have a material the Court’s decision, Teva is precluded from launching its generic
adverse impact on the results of operation of the Group in the product until 20 June 2014.
reporting period in which the judgments are incurred or the
settlements entered into. The most significant of these matters
are described below.209 GSK Annual Report 2011
44 Legal proceedings continued The Group subsequently received similar notices from Anchen
Pharmaceuticals (‘Anchen’), Roxane Laboratories (‘Roxanne’),
Arzerra/Benlysta/Cabilly patents Watson Laboratories, Inc. (‘Watson’), and Mylan Pharmaceuticals,
Inc. (‘Mylan’), each variously challenging either the ‘467 patent or
On 17 February 2010, the Group filed a declaratory action in the
all 3 patents.
United States District Court for the Northern District of California
for a declaration that US Patent No. 6,331,415 (known as the The Group filed suit against Banner and Anchen in the United
‘Cabilly II’ patent), which is owned jointly by Genentech, Inc. and States District Court for the District of Delaware on 13 January
the City of Hope, is invalid, unenforceable, or not infringed by the 2011 for infringement of the Avodart patents. As a consequence,
Group’s product Arzerra (ofatumumab), which is approved by the a stay against FDA approval of Banner’s and Anchen’s products
FDA for refractory chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (‘CLL’). will be in effect until the earlier of May 2013 or a decision adverse
Genentech and the City of Hope counterclaimed for infringement. to the Group. A separate complaint was filed against Roxane and
The suit subsequently was transferred to the United States District Watson in the same court on 17 June 2011. On 8 September
Court for the Middle District of California. 2011, the Group filed suit against Mylan. Thirty-month stays
against FDA approval of these subsequent generic products will
On 12 April 2011, after obtaining a third Cabilly patent (the
extend past the Anchen/Banner stay of May 2013. All of the cases
‘Cabilly III’ patent), Genentech filed suit against the Group in the
for Avodart have been consolidated with the original case against
United States District Court for the Middle District of California
Anchen and Banner. A two-week trial is scheduled to commence
alleging that the Group and Lonza, the manufacturer of Arzerra,
on 22 October 2012.
infringed the Cabilly III patent by making and selling Arzerra. The
Group is contractually required to defend and indemnify Lonza In May, 2010, the Group settled an earlier patent challenge
for claims related to Arzerra under the Cabilly patents. Genentech against Avodart by Teva Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (‘Teva’). Under the
also sued the Group and Human Genome Sciences Inc. (‘HGS’) terms of the settlement, Teva will be permitted to launch its
claiming infringement by the making and selling of Benlysta generic dutasteride product in the fourth quarter of 2015 or
under the Cabilly II and III patents. HGS is the Group’s licensor earlier under certain conditions. Teva’s generic dutasteride
for Benlysta. product was approved by the FDA on 21 December 2010.
On 22 September 2011, the District Court decided to stay the On 29 December 2010, Anchen notified the Group that it had
Cabilly III cases against the Group and HGS until further notice filed an ANDA for Jalyn with a Paragraph IV certification alleging
and decided not to consolidate the Arzerra and Benlysta cases that the ‘467 patent, which expires in 2015, was invalid,
relating to the Cabilly II patent. On 9 December 2011, the District unenforceable or not infringed. Jalyn, a combination of
Court stayed the Benlysta/Cabilly II case until resolution of all dutasteride and tamsulosin, is covered by the same three patents
summary judgment motions filed in the Arzerra/Cabilly II case. that cover Avodart. Subsequently, the Group received similar
Discovery has completed in the Arzerra/Cabilly II case and notices from Impax Laboratories, Inc. and Watson challenging
summary judgment motions are pending. one or more of the patents covering Jalyn. The Group sued all the
ANDA applicants for Jalyn in the United States District Court for
On 23 March 2010, Genentech and Biogen Idec filed suit against
the District of Delaware. These cases have been consolidated for
the Group in the United States District Court for the Southern
trial with the Avodart cases. A two-week trial is scheduled to
District of California alleging that the Group’s sale of Arzerra
commence on 22 October 2012.
induces and contributes to infringement of their patent that
claims the treatment of CLL with an anti-CD-20 monoclonal Benlysta
antibody. The Group counterclaimed that the patent is invalid or
In February 2010, the UK Court of Appeal upheld an earlier High
not infringed. On 18 October 2011, the District Court issued a
Court decision revoking the Human Genome Sciences, Inc.
ruling that construed the claims in a manner such that Arzerra
(‘HGS’) UK Patent No. EP0939804 on the grounds that it was not
would not infringe the patent. Genentech and Biogen Idec
susceptible of industrial application and inventive step. The claim
stipulated to a judgment of no infringement, and filed an appeal
for revocation was brought by Eli Lilly in 2006 on the patent
of the claim construction issue to the United States Court of
which claims the cytokine BLyS and any antibody that binds to
Appeals for the Federal Circuit. No dates have yet been set for
BLyS, such as Benlysta (belimumab). The Group has a licence to
the appeal.
this patent from HGS but was not a party to these litigation
Avodart/Jalyn proceedings. The equivalent European patent was upheld in
October 2009 on a final appeal from the European Patent Office
On 29 November 2010, Banner Pharmacaps, Inc. (‘Banner’)
following an opposition proceeding filed by Eli Lilly. HGS and the
notified the Group that it had filed an ANDA to market a generic
Group appealed the UK decision. On 2 November 2011, the UK
version of Avodart (dutasteride). Banner’s notification contained
Supreme Court reversed the UK Court of Appeal and affirmed
a Paragraph IV certification alleging that two patents expiring in
the validity of the patent on those grounds. The UK Supreme
2013 and one patent expiring in 2015 (the ‘467 patent) covering
Court has remanded the case to the UK Court of Appeal for
the compound dutasteride were invalid or not infringed by
further proceedings on the remaining grounds, including
Banner’s proposed generic dutasteride product.
sufficiency of disclosure which previously had been decided in
favour of HGS. Until and unless the Court of Appeal decides
against HGS on these remaining issues, the patent is considered
valid and in force.210 GSK Annual Report 2011
Financial Notes to the financial statements continued
statements
44 Legal proceedings continued On 30 March 2011, Pronova entered into an agreement with
Apotex to settle their patent litigation in the USA related to
On 2 November 2011, Eli Lilly brought an action in the UK Patents Lovaza. The settlement grants Apotex a license to enter the US
Court for revocation of a European patent owned by Biogen Idec market with a generic version of Lovaza in the first quarter of
covering the use of an antibody against BAFF (also known as B 2015 or earlier depending on certain circumstances. Other terms
Lymphocyte Stimulatory, BLyS) for the treatment of autoimmune of the settlement are confidential.
diseases. The Group and HGS are exclusively licensed under this
A trial involving Teva and Par was held in March and April of 2011,
patent and are responsible for defending the action. The
but no ruling has yet been issued. Pronova and the Group also
European patent is also being challenged in parallel proceedings
have received a Paragraph IV notice from Endo Pharmaceuticals
by Merck Serono at the European Patent Office. The actions are in
(‘Endo’) and Mylan Pharmaceuticals (‘Mylan’) advising that Endo
their early days. This patent is one of a number of patents which
and Mylan have submitted an ANDA to the FDA for Lovaza.
protect Benlysta and prevent unlawful copying of Benlysta. The
Pronova has chosen not to assert its patents against Endo and
outcome of this revocation action will have no direct effect on the
Mylan while awaiting the ruling in the litigation against Teva and
ability of HGS or the Group to market Benlysta, or on the validity
Par in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware.
of the other patents which cover Benlysta.
Trizivir
Epzicom
On 18 May 2011, ViiV Healthcare received notice that Lupin Ltd.
On 27 June 2011, ViiV Healthcare received notice that Teva
(‘Lupin’) had filed an ANDA containing a Paragraph IV
Pharmaceuticals (‘Teva’) had amended its ANDA for Epzicom (the
certification for Trizivir (the triple combination of lamivudine, AZT
combination of lamivudine and abacavir) to contain a Paragraph
and abacavir) alleging that three patents listed in the Orange
IV certification for two additional patents listed in the Orange
Book for Trizivir are either invalid, unenforceable or not infringed.
Book, alleging the patents were invalid, unenforceable or not
These patents relate to a method of treating HIV using the triple
infringed. The patents challenged in this new certification relate
combination (expiring in 2016), the hemisulfate salt of abacavir
to a method of treating HIV using the combination (expiring in
(expiring in 2018), and a certain crystal form of lamivudine
2016), and a certain crystal form of lamivudine (expiring in 2016).
(expiring in 2016). On 29 June 2011, ViiV Healthcare filed suit
On 5 August 2011, ViiV Healthcare filed suit against Teva under
against Lupin under the patent covering the triple combination in
the challenged patents in the United States District Court for the
the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. On
District of Delaware. A stay is in place against FDA approval of
31 October 2011, the District Court consolidated the case for
Teva’s ANDA until the earlier of December 2013 or a decision
discovery with ViiV Healthcare’s patent infringement suit involving
adverse to ViiV Healthcare in the matter. The District Court has
Teva Pharmaceuticals and Epzicom pending in the same court.
consolidated discovery in the Epzicom case with ViiV Healthcare’s
A stay is in place against FDA approval of Lupin’s ANDA until the
patent infringement suit against Lupin Ltd relating to Trizivir, as
earlier of November 2013 or a decision adverse to ViiV Healthcare
both cases involve the same patent covering the combination of
in the matter.
lamivudine and abacavir.
Veramyst
Levitra
On 9 November 2011, the Group received notice that Sandoz, Inc.
The Group participates in the marketing of Levitra pursuant to a
had filed an ANDA with a Paragraph IV certification for Veramyst
co-promotion agreement with Bayer Healthcare. In July 2009,
(fluticasone furoate) Nasal Spray, challenging the three patents
Bayer brought suit against Teva Pharmaceuticals (‘Teva’) in the
listed in the Orange Book for Veramyst as invalid, unenforceable,
United States District Court for the District of Delaware for
or not infringed. All three patents expire in 2021. On
infringement of its patent relating to Levitra. Teva had filed an
23 December 2011, the Group filed suit against Sandoz in the
ANDA with the FDA with a certification that the patent covering
United States District Court for the District of Delaware on all
the active ingredient in Levitra, which expires in 2018, is invalid,
three patents. A stay against FDA approval of Sandoz’s generic
unenforceable or not infringed. The parties settled and the case
product will be in place until the earlier of a court decision
was dismissed on 21 November 2011 under terms that are
adverse to the Group or at least May 2014.
confidential. The Group was not a party to this suit.
Product liability
Lovaza
Pre-clinical and clinical trials are conducted during the
In March 2009, the Group received notice that Teva
development of potential products to determine the safety and
Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. (‘Teva’), Par Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
efficacy of products for use by humans following approval by
(‘Par’), and Apotex Inc. (‘Apotex’) had filed ANDAs with a
regulatory bodies. Notwithstanding these efforts, when drugs
Paragraph IV certification alleging that two patents covering
and vaccines are introduced into the marketplace, unanticipated
Lovaza (omega-3-acid ethyl esters) are invalid, unenforceable, or
safety issues may become, or be believed by some to be, evident.
not infringed. The patents expire in 2013 and 2017. The Group is
The Group is currently a defendant in a number of product
the licensee under these patents and has marketing rights in the
liability lawsuits related to the Group’s pharmaceutical and
USA and Puerto Rico. Pronova BioPharma Norge AS (‘Pronova’),
consumer healthcare products. The most significant of those
the owner of the patents, sued Teva, Par and Apotex in the
matters are described below. The Group has been able to make
United States District Court for the District of Delaware. FDA
a reliable estimate of the expected financial effect of the matters
approval of the ANDAs will be stayed until the earlier of May
discussed in this category and has included a provision for the
2012 or a decision favourable to one of the generics. The Group
matters below in the provision for legal and other disputes, as
is not a party to these suits.
also noted in Note 29, ‘Other provisions’.211 GSK Annual Report 2011
44 Legal proceedings continued Poligrip
Beginning in 2005, a number of product liability lawsuits and claims
Avandia
were filed against the Group in both state and federal courts in the
The Group has been named in product liability lawsuits on behalf USA, including purported class actions, alleging that the zinc in
of individuals asserting personal injury claims arising out of the Poligrip causes copper depletion and permanent neurologic injury.
use of Avandia. The federal cases filed against the Group are part The federal cases are part of the Denture Cream Adhesive multi-
of a multi-district litigation proceeding pending in the United district litigation (MDL) in the United States District Court for the
States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. Cases Southern District of Florida which was established in June 2009.
have also been filed in a number of state courts. Cases filed in Both the Group and Procter & Gamble are defendants in this
state court in Philadelphia have been coordinated in the Mass Tort litigation. Included in the MDL were purported class actions
Program; cases in state court in California have been coordinated asserting economic loss claims under state consumer protection
in Los Angeles. Additionally, there are a number of purported laws and claims for medical monitoring. With three current
class actions seeking economic damages on behalf of third party exceptions (one state court case in Pennsylvania, one in Ohio and
payers and consumers asserting claims arising under various state one in Tennessee), all of the state court cases have been
and federal laws, including the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt consolidated in the Philadelphia Mass Tort Program (‘MTP’).
Organizations Act (‘RICO’), state unfair trade practices and/or Purported class actions asserting consumer fraud claims were also
consumer protection laws. filed in Canada. The Group has reached agreements in principle to
settle the vast majority of current cases other than lawsuits pending
As of February 2012, the Group has reached agreements to settle
in the MTP, where litigation and settlement discussions are
the substantial majority of federal and state cases pending in the
ongoing. The Group has voluntarily withdrawn all zinc-containing
USA. Eleven purported class actions on Avandia are pending in
formulations of Poligrip from the market.
Canada, and one purported class action in Israel.
Sales and marketing and regulation
Paxil and Paxil CR
The Group has been able to make a reliable estimate of the
The Group has received numerous lawsuits and claims alleging
expected financial effect of the matters discussed in this category
that use of Paxil (paroxetine) has caused a variety of injuries. Most
and has included a provision for such matters in the provision for
of these lawsuits in recent years have alleged that the use of Paxil
legal and other disputes, except as noted below. Matters for
during pregnancy resulted in the birth of a child with birth defects
which the Group has made a provision are also noted in Note 29,
or health issues. Other lawsuits and claims have alleged that
‘Other provisions’.
patients who took Paxil committed or attempted to commit
suicide or acts of violence or that patients suffered symptoms ‘Colorado Investigation’
on discontinuing treatment with Paxil.
In February 2004, the Group received a subpoena from the
The Group reached agreements to settle the substantial majority United States Attorney’s office in Colorado regarding the Group’s
of the US claims relating to Paxil use during pregnancy as of sales and promotional practices relating to nine of its largest
February 2012, but a number of claims related to use during selling products, for the period from January 1997 to 2004. That
pregnancy are still pending, including several scheduled for trial in investigation was later taken over by the United States Attorney’s
the Philadelphia Mass Tort Program. Other matters have been office for the District of Massachusetts and expanded to the
dismissed without payment. There remains purported class action present with respect to Advair. On 3 November 2011, the Group
litigation in Canada concerning use of Paxil during pregnancy. announced that it had reached an agreement in principle with the
United States Government to conclude the Group’s most
The parties are filing a motion for preliminary approval of a
significant ongoing United States federal investigations,
proposed class settlement in a certified statewide class action
specifically, (i) this Colorado investigation into the Group’s sales
seeking restitution for alleged violations of the California Unfair
and marketing practices begun in February 2004; (ii) the United
Competition Law relating to symptoms on discontinuing use
States Department of Justice’s investigation of possible
of Paxil.
inappropriate use of the nominal price exception under the
In the UK, public funding has been withdrawn from the hundreds Medicaid Rebate Program; and (iii) the Department of Justice’s
of claimants who had received funding to pursue common issues investigation of the development and marketing of Avandia, for
in litigation alleging that paroxetine has caused them to suffer a settlement payment of $3 billion. The final settlement and
from withdrawal reactions and dependency. The Legal Services Corporate Integrity Agreement, which is expected to address civil
Commission’s decision to withdraw funding has been appealed and criminal liabilities and the Group’s sales and marketing
to a Special Cases Review Panel by some claimants. The outcome practices, remains subject to ongoing negotiation with the United
of the appeal remains outstanding. Other claimants have States Government and is expected to be finalised in 2012. The
discontinued their claims. The trial scheduled to commence amount of the settlement is covered by the Group’s existing
in early 2011 in the High Court in London was vacated. provisions and will be funded through existing cash resources.
The US government also had inquired about the Group’s
response to an October 2002 letter from the FDA’s Division of Drug
Marketing, Advertising and Communication requesting information
on the Group’s alleged promotion of Wellbutrin SR for off-label
use. The resolution of this enquiry is part of the agreement in
principle with the federal government described above.212 GSK Annual Report 2011
Financial Notes to the financial statements continued
statements
44 Legal proceedings continued Cidra, Puerto Rico manufacturing site
On 26 October 2010, the Group finalised an agreement with the
Avandia-related matters
US Attorney’s Office for the District of Massachusetts and the US
As noted above, on 3 November 2011, the Group reached Department of Justice with respect to the investigation of the
agreement in principle with the United States federal government Group’s former manufacturing facility in Cidra, Puerto Rico. Under
to resolve the government’s investigation into the development the agreement and as a comprehensive settlement of pending
and marketing of Avandia. claims against the Group arising from the investigation, the Group
paid a total of $750 million (£500 million) in civil and criminal
The Attorneys General Offices of the states of Louisiana,
penalties, and SB Pharmco Puerto Rico, Inc., a subsidiary of the
Mississippi, South Carolina and Utah have filed suit against the
Group, pleaded guilty to certain charges. The Group is in the
Group asserting various statutory and common law claims relating
process of negotiating a Corporate Integrity Agreement with
to the development and marketing of Avandia. A multistate group
the Office of Inspector General that will cover manufacturing
of Attorneys General is conducting an investigation relating to
compliance matters.
the development and marketing of Avandia, and the Group is
cooperating with these offices. The Group is also defending On 23 June 2011, the Group announced its agreement to pay
an action by the County of Santa Clara, California, which was a total of $40.75 million to 37 US states and the District of
brought under California’s consumer protection laws seeking Columbia to settle an investigation related to events during the
civil penalties and restitution. early 2000’s at its former manufacturing facility in Cidra, Puerto
Rico. The Group did not admit to any wrongdoing or liability in
Average wholesale price
this settlement.
The United States Department of Justice (‘DOJ’), a number of
HIV division enquiry
states and putative classes of private payers have for several years
now been investigating and/or bringing civil litigation regarding On 26 July 2010, the Group received a subpoena from the Eastern
allegations that numerous pharmaceutical companies, including District of New York’s US Attorney’s Office regarding sales and
the Group, have violated federal or state fraud and abuse laws as marketing practices for three HIV products, as well as educational
a result of the way ‘average wholesale price’ (‘AWP’) and programmes, grants or payments to physicians regarding any
‘wholesale acquisition cost’ (‘WAC’) have been determined and drug used to treat HIV-infected adults. The Group is cooperating
reported for various drugs reimbursed under the Medicare, with the investigation. No provision has been made for this matter.
Medicaid and other insurance programmes. In 2005, the Group
Nominal pricing
reached a $149 million civil settlement with the federal
government to resolve allegations relating to the pricing and In May, 2004, the Group was advised by the US Department of
marketing of Zofran and Kytril (the ‘DOJ Settlement’). The Group Justice that it was investigating certain of the Group’s nominal
also amended its existing Corporate Integrity Agreement as a pricing and bundled sale arrangements under the nominal price
requirement of the settlement. In 2007, the Group received final exception to the best price reporting requirements of the
approval of a $70 million nationwide private payer class action Medicaid Drug Rebate Programme. As noted above, on
settlement relating to the Group’s price reporting in a multi- 3 November 2011, the Group reached an agreement in principle
district litigation proceeding in the United States District Court for with the US federal government to resolve the government’s
the District of Massachusetts. investigation into possible inappropriate use of the nominal price
exception of the Medicaid Drug Rebate Programme. The amount
A number of states, through their respective Attorneys General,
of the settlement is covered by the Group’s existing provisions
and most of the counties in New York State have filed civil
and will be funded through existing cash resources.
lawsuits in state and federal courts against the Group and many
other drug companies claiming damages and restitution due to The Group also received subpoenas and requests for documents
AWP and/or WAC price reporting for pharmaceutical products and information from Delaware and Michigan related to the
covered by the states’ Medicaid programmes. The states seek Group’s nominal price arrangements. The Group cooperated in
recovery on behalf of the states as payers and, in some cases, those investigations and produced responsive documents. The
on behalf of in-state patients as consumers. Group anticipates that the Delaware and Michigan investigations
will be resolved as part of the US federal settlement. The Group
The Group has separately resolved AWP claims by state Medicaid
has not entered into any nominal price arrangements since
programmes in almost all of the states through the DOJ
December 2003.
Settlement or separate negotiations. Litigation concerning AWP
issues is continuing with four states.213 GSK Annual Report 2011
44 Legal proceedings continued Anti-trust/competition
The Group has been able to make a reliable estimate of the
340B Programme
expected financial effect of the matters discussed in this category
The Group has been defending an action filed in federal court and has included a provision for such matters in the provision for
in the United States District Court for the Northern District of legal and other disputes, except as noted below. Matters for
California by the County of Santa Clara and one other county which the Group has made a provision are also noted in Note 29,
which sought to represent a putative class of hospitals, clinics and ‘Other provisions’.
other entities in California that are eligible to receive discounted
EU sector enquiry
‘ceiling prices’ on pharmaceuticals under a federal programme
known as the ‘340B Programme.’ Plaintiffs alleged that the Group In January 2008, the European Commission announced an
and numerous other pharmaceutical manufacturers had been enquiry into certain aspects of competition in the pharmaceutical
setting ‘ceiling prices’ higher than allowed by law and, under sector. In July 2009, the Commission published a final report
the contract that governs the programme, and had therefore suggesting that defensive patenting strategies may impose
overcharged the entities in California that are eligible to obstacles to innovation and that innovator companies employ
participate in the 340B Programme. measures to hinder generics coming onto the market. The final
report also conceded that delays in generic entry were as much
The United States Supreme Court agreed to review the issue of
the fault of the regulatory environment as innovator companies’
whether 340B entities have standing to sue manufacturers under
defensive strategies.
the manufacturers’ 340B contract with the government. The trial
court stayed all proceedings in the case until after the Supreme On 17 January 2011, the Commission requested information from
Court’s decision. On 29 March 2011, the Supreme Court the Group and a number of other pharmaceutical companies
unanimously held that the plaintiffs, as third-party beneficiaries relating to patent settlement agreements affecting European
under the contract at issue, could not sue to challenge the Union and European Economic Area markets. The request for
calculation of 340B Programme ceiling prices, essentially ending information is the second monitoring exercise by the Commission
the plaintiffs’ case. The parties are working on finalising a of patent settlement agreements in the pharmaceuticals sector.
dismissal of the case and a resolution of other potential claims. The results of the 2011 exercise were published on 6 July 2011.
On 23 January 2012, the Commission repeated this exercise
Lovaza
(its third patent settlement monitoring exercise). The Group
On 18 April 2011, the Group received a subpoena from the Office responded on 3 February 2012. No provision has been made
of the Inspector General of the US Department of Health and for this matter.
Human Services requesting production of documents relating
UK Office of Fair Trading Competition Act investigation
to the Group’s marketing and promotion of Lovaza. The scope
of the document request is from 1 January 2006 to the present. On 12 August 2011, the UK Office of Fair Trading (‘OFT’) launched
The Group is responding to the subpoena. No provision has been a formal investigation of the Group and other pharmaceutical
made for this matter. companies for potential infringement of the Competition Act.
The investigation focuses on whether: (i) litigation settlements
Paxil/Seroxat
between the Group and potential suppliers of generic paroxetine
In 2004, the Group settled a lawsuit filed by the New York State formulations, entered between 2001 and 2003, had as their
Attorney General’s office alleging that the Group failed to disclose object or effect the prevention, restriction, or distortion of
data on the use of Paxil in children and adolescents. In 2007 and competition in the UK, and (ii) the Group has infringed its
2008, the Group made class settlements of lawsuits brought by dominant position by making payments to potential suppliers of
consumers and third-party payers, respectively, for economic generic paroxetine with the aim of restricting the development
damages allegedly resulting from prescriptions of Paxil to children of full generic competition in the UK. The Group terminated the
and adolescents. The Group denied liability in these settlements. agreements at issue in 2004. The OFT investigation covers issues
In 2010, plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed a similar purported class that were also investigated by the European Commission in
action filed on behalf of governmental entities that paid for 2005 – 2006 in respect of paroxetine in the European Union, and
prescriptions of Paxil to minors. There remains a similar purported also in 2008, as part of the European Commission Pharmaceutical
class action in Canada seeking economic damages on behalf of Sector enquiry. On 2 March 2012, the Commission announced
individuals, third party payers and governmental entities that that it had formally concluded its enquiry with no further action.
purchased Paxil for use by patients under the age of 18.
The Group has provided information and documentation in
SEC/DOJ FCPA enquiry response to the OFT’s request and has held an initial meeting with
The US Securities and Exchange Commission (‘SEC’) and the US the OFT in December 2011. The Group will continue to cooperate
Department of Justice are conducting an industry-wide enquiry with the OFT in the investigation. No provision has been made for
into whether pharmaceutical companies may have engaged in this matter.
violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act relating to the sale
of pharmaceuticals, including in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, China,
Germany, Italy, Poland, Russia and Saudi Arabia. The Group is one
of the companies that have been asked to respond to this enquiry
and is cooperating with the SEC and DOJ. No provision has been
made for this matter.214 GSK Annual Report 2011
Financial Notes to the financial statements continued
statements
44 Legal proceedings continued Securities/ERISA class actions
Stiefel
Wellbutrin SR
On 6 July 2009, a class action suit brought on behalf of current
In December 2004, January 2005 and February 2005, lawsuits,
and former employees of Stiefel Laboratories, Inc. (‘Stiefel’), was
several of which purported to be class actions, were filed in the
filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District
United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania
of Florida. The complaint alleges that Stiefel and its officers and
against the Group on behalf of direct and indirect purchasers of
directors violated US Employee Retirement Income Security Act
Wellbutrin SR. The complaints allege violations of US anti-trust
(‘ERISA’) and federal and state securities laws by inducing Stiefel
laws through sham litigation and fraud on the patent office by
employees to sell their shares in the employee stock plan back to
the Group in obtaining and enforcing patents covering
Stiefel at a greatly undervalued price and without disclosing to
Wellbutrin SR. The complaints followed the introduction of
employees that Stiefel was about to be sold to the Group. In
generic competition to Wellbutrin SR in April 2004, after district
January 2010, defendants’ motion to dismiss was granted in part
and appellate court rulings that a generic manufacturer did not
and denied in part. Specifically, while the District Court
infringe the Group’s patents.
determined that the ERISA claims against the individual Stiefel
On 21 November 2011, the District Court approved the Group’s defendants as well as the federal securities claims against the
settlement with the certified class of direct purchasers. On individual defendants and Stiefel could go forward, the District
11 January 2012, the Group reached agreement in principle to Court dismissed the Florida Securities Act and common law
settle the claims of all the indirect purchasers for $21.5 million. breach of fiduciary duty claims holding that ERISA pre-empts
The settlement will be presented to the District Court for approval state and common law, as well as a malpractice claim against
in the near future. Stiefel’s former accountants. On 21 July 2011, the District Court
denied plaintiffs’ motion for class certification. In October 2011,
Wellbutrin XL
the District Court granted the defendants’ motions for summary
Actions have been filed against Biovail Corporation (‘Biovail’) and judgment, dismissing all but one of the remaining plaintiffs in
the Group by purported classes of direct and indirect purchasers the litigation. The District Court also has granted all of the
who allege unlawful monopolisation and other anti-trust defendants’ motions in limine, limiting the scope of the evidence
violations related to the enforcement of Biovail’s Wellbutrin XL that plaintiffs may offer at trial. Additionally, in November 2011,
patents and the filing, by Biovail, of citizen petitions. Both direct the District Court granted the defendants’ Daubert motion,
and indirect purchaser classes have been certified. The Group has meaning that plaintiffs have no experts left to testify on their
moved for reconsideration with regard to the certification of the behalf at trial. Trial is scheduled for May 2012.
indirect purchaser class. Oral argument on the Group’s motion is
Three separate lawsuits against Stiefel and Charles Stiefel, the
scheduled for 20 March 2012. A trial date has not yet been set.
former CEO of Stiefel, also have been filed by individual, former
Flonase Stiefel employees. Each case asserts claims similar to those
contained in the class action.
Purported direct and indirect purchaser class actions have been
filed in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of On 12 December 2011, the US Securities and Exchange
Pennsylvania alleging the Group illegally maintained monopoly Commission (‘SEC’) filed a formal complaint against Stiefel and
power in the ‘market’ for Flonase and charged plaintiffs Charles Stiefel in the United States District Court for the District
supracompetitive prices. Additionally, a suit has been filed by of Florida alleging that Stiefel and its principals violated federal
Roxane Laboratories, Inc., a generic competitor, seeking lost securities laws by inducing Stiefel employees to sell their shares
profits from the Group’s alleged actions unlawfully delaying in the employee stock plan back to the company at a greatly
Roxane’s entry into the market. The predicate for all of these undervalued price and without disclosing to employees that the
allegations was the filing by the Group of allegedly sham citizen company was about to be sold. The Group has responded to
petitions and subsequent litigation. The District Court granted the SEC’s complaint.
the motion of the direct purchasers to certify a class. A hearing
Avandia ERISA litigation
on certification of the indirect purchaser class was held on
27 February 2012. No decision on the motion has yet been made A putative class action suit was filed against the Group on
by the court. The Group’s motion to dismiss Roxane’s complaint 27 August 2010 in the United States District Court for the
was denied. Trial on the suit brought by the putative class of Southern District of New York.
direct and indirect purchasers is scheduled for 1 October 2012.
The complaint alleges that the Group and its officers, directors
Commercial and corporate and certain employees made misleading public statements about
Avandia, and that when these alleged ‘misleading statements’
Where the Group is able to make a reliable estimate of the
were exposed, the value of the Group’s stock dropped. Plaintiff
expected financial effect, if any, for the matters discussed in this
has brought suit on behalf of himself and all other participants
category, it has included a provision in respect of such matters in
in the Group’s retirement plans, claiming that the Group and the
the provision for legal and other disputes as set out in Note 29,
individual defendants breached their fiduciary duties to plan
‘Other provisions’. No provision has been made for any of the
participants under the Employee Retirement Income Security
following matters.
Act (‘ERISA’).215 GSK Annual Report 2011
44 Legal proceedings continued Plaintiffs sought double damages for all overtime allegedly
worked by the Group’s pharmaceutical sales representatives
Plaintiffs subsequently amended their complaint to add over a three year period. In November 2009, the District Court
allegations concerning Wellbutrin SR and Paxil and to include granted the Group’s motion for summary judgment and dismissed
additional Group defendants and individual members of the the lawsuit on the ground that the sales representatives were
Group’s benefits committees. The Group filed a motion to dismiss ‘exempt’ employees under the outside sales exemption to the
on 4 February 2011. On 5 May 2011, the District Court ruled in FLSA. Plaintiffs appealed the decision to the United States Court
favour of the Group, dismissing the plaintiffs’ complaint with of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.
prejudice. On 8 June 2011, plaintiffs filed an appeal with the
On 14 February 2011, the Ninth Circuit issued an opinion in
United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.
favour of the Group affirming the judgment of the United States
Benlysta securities litigation District Court for the District of Arizona and finding that the Group’s
pharmaceutical sales representatives are exempt employees under
On 10 November 2011, a class action suit was filed in the United
the outside sales exemption to the FLSA and, therefore, not entitled
States District Court for the District of Maryland alleging that
to overtime pay. Plaintiffs filed a petition seeking review of the
Human Genome Sciences, Inc. (‘HGS’), certain of its individual
decision by the United States Supreme Court. On 28 November
officers and directors and the Group made statements about the
2011, the Supreme Court agreed to review the case. Oral argument
clinical trials for Benlysta that failed to disclose suicides among
before the Supreme Court is scheduled for 16 April 2012.
trial participants, and that, by withholding this information, the
defendants caused HGS’ stock to be artificially inflated, harming In November 2010, a purported class action was filed against
anyone who purchased HGS stock at the inflated price. In the Group in the United States District Court for the Northern District
November 2011, a second action was filed in the same federal of New York on behalf of the Group’s pharmaceutical sales
court. A lead plaintiff has not yet been named in the case, and representatives working in New York during the previous six years.
the Group is evaluating the complaints. The plaintiff makes similar allegations as those set forth in the other
FLSA cases as well as claims under the New York wage and hour
Wage and hour claims
laws which closely follow the US Fair Labor Standards Act. In January
In December 2006, two purported class actions were filed against 2011, a plaintiff filed a similar purported class action in Florida state
the Group on behalf of the Group’s entire US pharmaceutical court alleging that the Group’s pharmaceutical sales representatives
sales representatives. These actions, which were filed in or are entitled to overtime under the FLSA. The court has issued a stay
transferred to the United States District Court for the Central of most activities in the New York case, and the parties have agreed
District of California, initially alleged that those representatives are to ask the court to stay all activities in the Florida case until the
not ‘exempt’ employees under California law and/or the US Fair United States Supreme Court has decided the applicability of the
Labor Standards Act (‘FLSA’) and, consequently, are entitled to outside sales exemption to pharmaceutical sales representatives.
overtime pay, among other things. Plaintiffs subsequently
Environmental matters
amended their complaints to assert a class action, limited solely to
pharmaceutical sales representatives working in California, and The Group has been notified of its potential responsibility relating
only asserting claims under California’s wage and hour laws. to past operations and its past waste disposal practices at certain
sites, primarily in the USA. Some of these matters are the subject
The suits seek a variety of compensatory, punitive and statutory
of litigation, including proceedings initiated by the US federal or
damages. The Group moved for summary judgment dismissing
state governments for waste disposal, site remediation costs and
the claims of the putative class representatives on the ground that
tort actions brought by private parties.
they were exempt employees. Because of appeals pending in the
United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in cases The Group has been advised that it may be a responsible party
involving other manufacturers with virtually the same factual and at approximately 27 sites, of which 12 appear on the National
legal arguments, the District Court deferred ruling on the Priority List created by the Comprehensive Environmental
summary judgment motion and stayed any further activity in the Response Compensation and Liability Act (Superfund). These
case until the appellate court ruled in at least one of the other proceedings seek to require the operators of hazardous waste
companies’ pending cases. The Ninth Circuit deferred ruling on facilities, transporters of waste to the sites and generators of
the other companies’ pending cases until the California Supreme hazardous waste disposed of at the sites to clean up the sites or
Court issued an opinion in a case addressing the application of to reimburse the government for cleanup costs. In most instances,
the administrative exemption under California state law. In the Group is involved as an alleged generator of hazardous waste.
January 2012, the California Supreme Court issued a ruling in the
Although Superfund provides that the defendants are jointly and
case, requesting briefing about the effect of the ruling of the
severally liable for cleanup costs, these proceedings are frequently
California Supreme Court on the other companies’ pending
resolved on the basis of the nature and quantity of waste
pharmaceutical sales representative cases.
disposed of by the generator at the site. The Group’s
A third case, filed in the United States District Court for the proportionate liability for cleanup costs has been substantially
District of Arizona in August 2008, sought to establish a determined for about 20 of the sites referred to above.
nationwide collective action on behalf of the Group’s entire US
The Group’s potential liability varies greatly from site to site.
pharmaceutical sales representatives on the ground that those
While the cost of investigation, study and remediation at such
representatives were not exempt employees under the FLSA.
sites could, over time, be substantial, the Group routinely accrues
amounts related to its share of the liability for such matters.216 GSK Annual Report 2011
Financial Financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc
statements prepared under UK GAAP
Directors’ statement of responsibilities in relation to Disclosure of information to auditors
the company’s financial statements
The Directors in office at the date of this Report have each
The Directors are responsible for preparing the parent company, confirmed that:
GlaxoSmithKline plc, financial statements and the Remuneration
• so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit
Report in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
information of which the company’s auditors are unaware; and
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial
• he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have
statements for each financial year. Under that law the Directors
taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any
have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements
relevant audit information and to establish that the company’s
in accordance with United Kingdom Accounting Standards and
auditors are aware of that information.
applicable law (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice). Under company law the Directors must not approve the This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance
parent company financial statements unless they are satisfied that with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the
Going concern basis
company for that period.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are
expectation that the company has adequate resources to continue
required to:
in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason,
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the
them consistently; financial statements.
• make judgements and accounting estimates that are The UK Corporate Governance Code
reasonable and prudent;
The Board considers that GlaxoSmithKline plc applies the
• state with regard to the parent company financial statements principles and provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code
that applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, maintained by the Financial Reporting Council, as described in
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Corporate Governance section on pages 82 to 105, and has
the parent company financial statements. complied with its provisions except as disclosed on page 84.
As required by the Financial Services Authority’s Listing Rules, the
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting
auditors have considered the Directors’ statement of compliance
records that are sufficient to show and explain the company’s
in relation to those points of the UK Corporate Governance Code
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time
which are specified for their review.
the financial position of the company and to enable them to
ensure that the parent company financial statements and
Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the
Sir Christopher Gent
company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the
Chairman
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
9 March 2012
The parent company financial statements for the year ended
31 December 2011, comprising the balance sheet for the year
ended 31 December 2011 and supporting notes, are set out
on pages 218 to 221 of this report.
The responsibilities of the auditors in relation to the parent
company financial statements are set out in the Independent
Auditors’ report on page 217.
The financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011
are included in the Annual Report, which is published in hard-
copy printed form and made available on our website. The
Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of
the Annual Report on our website in accordance with UK
legislation governing the preparation and dissemination of
financial statements. Access to the website is available from
outside the UK, where comparable legislation may be different.217 GSK Annual Report 2011
Independent Auditors’ report Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies
Act 2006
to the members of GlaxoSmithKline plc
In our opinion:
We have audited the parent company financial statements of
GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 • the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited
which comprise the Company Balance Sheet – UK GAAP and has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies
the related Notes A-H. The financial reporting framework that Act 2006; and
has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and
• the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financia l
United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom
year for which the parent company financial statements are
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
prepared is consistent with the parent company financial
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors statements.
As explained more fully in the Directors’ statement of Matters on which we are required to report
responsibilities set out on page 216, the directors are responsible by exception
for the preparation of the parent company financial statements
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters
and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if,
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the
in our opinion:
parent company financial statements in accordance with
applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and • a dequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent
Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been
Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. received from branches not visited by us; or
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and • t he parent company financial statements and the part of the
only for the company’s members as a body in accordance with Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume
• c ertain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law
responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to
are not made; or
whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save
where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing. • w e have not received all the information and explanations we
require for our audit.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
Other matters
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of
assurance that the financial statements are free from material GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year ended 31 December 2011.
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an The Company has passed a resolution in accordance with section
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to 506 of the Companies Act 2006 that the senior statutory
the parent company’s circumstances and have been consistently auditor’s name should not be stated.
applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of
significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the
overall presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we
read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
financial statements. If we become aware of any apparent London
material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the 9 March 2012
implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion the parent company financial statements:
• give a true and fair view of the state of the company’s affairs
as at 31 December 2011;
• have been properly prepared in accordance with United
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of
the Companies Act 2006.218 GSK Annual Report 2011
Financial Financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc
statements prepared under UK GAAP
Company balance sheet – UK GAAP at 31 December 2011
2011 2010
Notes £m £m
Fixed assets – investments D 19,680 19,659
Debtors E 3,870 720
Cash at bank 19 10
Current assets 3,889 730
Creditors: amounts due within one year F (481) (6,230)
Net current assets/(liabilities) 3,408 (5,500)
Net assets 23,088 14,159
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital G 1,387 1,418
Share premium account G 1,673 1,428
Other reserves H 1,339 1,282
Profit and loss account H 18,689 10,031
Equity shareholders’ funds 23,088 14,159
Approved by the Board on 9 March 2012.
Sir Christopher Gent
Chairman
GlaxoSmithKline plc
Registered number: 3888792219 GSK Annual Report 2011
Notes to the company balance sheet – Expenditure
UK GAAP Expenditure is recognised in respect of goods and services
received when supplied in accordance with contractual terms.
A) Presentation of the financial statements
Provision is made when an obligation exists for a future liability in
Description of business respect of a past event and where the amount of the obligation
can be reliably estimated.
GlaxoSmithKline plc is the parent company of GSK, a major global
healthcare group which is engaged in the creation and discovery, Investments in subsidiary companies
development, manufacture and marketing of pharmaceutical
Investments in subsidiary companies are held at cost less any
products, including vaccines, over-the-counter (OTC) medicines
provision for impairment.
and health-related consumer products.
Impairment of investments
Preparation of financial statements
The carrying value of investments are reviewed for impairment
The financial statements, which are prepared on a going concern
when there is an indication that the investment might be
basis, are drawn up in accordance with UK generally accepted
impaired. Any provision resulting from an impairment review is
accounting principles (UK GAAP) and with UK accounting
charged to the income statement in the year concerned.
presentation as at 31 December 2011, with comparative figures
as at 31 December 2010. Where appropriate, comparative Share based payments
figures are reclassified to ensure a consistent presentation with The issuance by the company to its subsidiaries of a grant over the
current year information. company’s options, represents additional capital contributions by
As permitted by s.408 of the Companies Act 2006, the profit and the company in its subsidiaries. An additional investment in
loss account of the company is not presented in this Annual Report. subsidiaries results in a corresponding increase in shareholders’
equity. The additional capital contribution is based on the fair
Accounting convention and standards
value of the grant issued, allocated over the underlying grant’s
The balance sheet has been prepared using the historical cost vesting period.
convention and complies with applicable UK accounting
Taxation
standards.
Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid
Accounting principles and policies
applying tax rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted
The preparation of the balance sheet in conformity with generally by the balance sheet date.
accepted accounting principles requires management to make
The company accounts for taxation which is deferred or
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of
accelerated by reason of timing differences which have originated
assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and
but not reversed by the balance sheet date. Deferred tax assets
liabilities at the date of the balance sheet. Actual amounts could
are only recognised to the extent that they are considered
differ from those estimates.
recoverable against future taxable profits.
The balance sheet has been prepared in accordance with the
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are
company’s accounting policies approved by the Board and
expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences
described in Note B.
are expected to reverse. Deferred tax liabilities and assets are
B) Accounting policies not discounted.
Foreign currency transactions Financial guarantees
Foreign currency transactions are recorded at the exchange rate Liabilities relating to guarantees issued by the company on behalf
ruling on the date of transaction, or at the forward rate if hedged of its subsidiaries are initially recognised at fair value and
by a forward exchange contract. Foreign currency assets and amortised over the life of the guarantee.
liabilities are translated at rates of exchange ruling at the balance
C) O perating profit
sheet date, or at the forward rate.
A fee of £11,474 (2010 – £11,140) relating to the audit of the
Dividends paid and received
company has been charged in operating profit.
Dividends paid and received are included in the accounts in the
period in which the related dividends are actually paid or received.220 GSK Annual Report 2011
Financial Financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc
statements prepared under UK GAAP
Notes to the company balance sheet – UK GAAP continued
D) Fixed assets
2011 2010
£m £m
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Services Unlimited 613 613
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (One) Limited 18 18
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Holdings Limited 17,888 17,888
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Mercury Limited 33 33
18,552 18,552
Capital contribution relating to share based payments 1,128 1,107
19,680 19,659
E) Debtors
2011 2010
£m £m
Amounts due within one year:
UK Corporation tax recoverable 227 223
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 3,236 112
3,463 335
Amounts due after more than one year:
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 407 385
3,870 720
F) Creditors
2011 2010
£m £m
Amounts due within one year:
Bank overdraft 9 9
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 4 5,774
Other creditors 468 447
481 6,230
The company has guaranteed debt issued by one of its subsidiary companies for which it receives an annual fee from the subsidiary.
In aggregate, the company has outstanding guarantees over $10 billion of debt instruments.
The amount due from the subsidiary companies in relation to these guarantee fees will be recovered over the life of the bonds and are
disclosed within debtors (see Note E).221 GSK Annual Report 2011
Notes to the company balance sheet – UK GAAP continued
G) Share capital and share premium account
Share
Ordinary Shares of 25p each premium
Number £m £m
Share capital authorised
At 31 December 2010 10,000,000,000 2,500
At 31 December 2011 10,000,000,000 2,500
Share capital issued and fully paid
At 1 January 2010 5,665,128,719 1,416 1,368
Issued under employee share schemes 5,329,458 2 60
At 31 December 2010 5,670,458,177 1,418 1,428
Issued under employee share schemes 21,949,144 5 245
Share capital purchased and cancelled (142,204,223) (36) –
At 31 December 2011 5,550,203,098 1,387 1,673
31 December 31 December
2011 2010
000 000
Number of shares issuable under outstanding options 126,810 207,132
Number of unissued shares not under option 4,322,987 4,122,410
At 31 December 2011, of the issued share capital, 90,922,720 shares were held in the ESOP Trusts, 501,157,927 shares were held as
Treasury shares and 4,958,122,451 shares were in free issue. All issued shares are fully paid. The nominal, carrying and market values
of the shares held in the ESOP Trusts are disclosed in Note 42, ‘Employee share schemes’.
A total of 169 million shares were purchased by the company during 2011 at a cost of £2,191 million. During the year 142 million shares
were cancelled and 27 million shares added to Treasury shares.
The company expects to make further share repurchases of £1–2 billion during 2012. The exact amount and timing of further purchases
and whether the shares will be held as Treasury shares or be cancelled will be determined by the company and is dependent on market
conditions and other factors. No shares were purchased in the period 1 January 2012 to 7 February 2012. In the period 8 February 2012
to 2 March 2012 8.6 million shares were purchased at a cost of £122.3 million.
H) Reserves
Other Profit and
reserves loss account Total
£m £m £m
At 1 January 2010 1,255 13,270 14,525
Loss attributable to shareholders – (34) (34)
Dividends to shareholders – (3,205) (3,205)
Capital contribution relating to share based payments 27 – 27
At 31 December 2010 1,282 10,031 11,313
Profit attributable to shareholders – 14,255 14,255
Dividends to shareholders – (3,406) (3,406)
Shares purchased and cancelled or held as Treasury share 36 (2,191) (2,155)
Capital contribution relating to share based payments 21 – 21
At 31 December 2011 1,339 18,689 20,028
The profit of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year was £14,255 million (2010 – loss of £34 million), which after dividends of £3,406 million
(2010 – £3,205 million), gave a retained profit of £10,849 million (2010 – loss of £3,239 million). After the cost of shares purchased and
cancelled or held as Treasury shares of £2,191 million (2010 – £nil), the profit and loss account reserve at 31 December 2011 stood at
£18,689 million (2010 – £10,031 million), of which £4,096 million is unrealised (2010 – £4,096 million).222 GSK Annual Report 2011
Shareholder
information Shareholder
information
Quarterly trend
An unaudited analysis of the Group results and Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines sales by therapeutic area is provided by quarter in
Sterling for the financial year 2011.
Income statement – total 12 months 2011 Q4 2011 Q3 2011 Q2 2011 Q1 2011
£m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Turnover – Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 22,192 (4) (5) 5,710 (3) (4) 5,775 3 4 5,443 (3) (6) 5,264 (14) (14)
– Consumer Healthcare 5,195 5 4 1,268 3 – 1,329 5 6 1,277 4 2 1,321 7 7
Total turnover 27,387 (3) (4) 6,978 (2) (3) 7,104 3 4 6,720 (2) (4) 6,585 (10) (10)
Cost of sales (7,332) (3) (3) (1,895) (7) (9) (1,998) 3 5 (1,644) 1 (1) (1,795) (8) (8)
Selling, general and administration (8,826 (32) (32) (2,226) (48) (50) (2,098) 1 3 (2,345) (41) (44) (2,157) (12) (8)
Research and development (4,009) (9) (10) (1,095) – – (984) (2) (2) (1,015) (12) (15) (915) (20) (21)
Other operating income 587 117 91 62 317
Operating profit 7,807 >100 >100 1,879 >100 >100 2,115 8 8 1,778 >100 >100 2,035 2 (3)
Finance income 90 29 19 23 19
Finance costs (799) (204) (191) (211) (193)
Profit on disposal of interest in associates 585 1 – – 584
Share of after tax profits/(losses) of associates and joint ventures 15 (4) (2) 2 19
Profit before taxation 7,698 >100 >100 1,701 >100 >100 1,941 8 8 1,592 >100 >100 2,464 33 28
Taxation (2,240) (417) (498) (445) (880)
Tax rate % 29.1% 24.5% 25.7% 28.0% 35.7%
Profit after taxation for the period 5,458 >100 >100 1,284 >100 >100 1,443 8 7 1,147 >100 >100 1,584 18 14
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 197 32 65 41 59
Profit attributable to shareholders 5,261 1,252 1,378 1,106 1,525
Basic earnings per share (pence) 104.6p >100 >100 25.2p >100 >100 27.6p 9 9 21.8p >100 >100 30.0p 18 14
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 103.2p 24.9p 27.2p 21.6p 29.6p
Income statement – results before major restructuring
Total turnover 27,387 (3) (4) 6,978 (2) (3) 7,104 3 4 6,720 (2) (4) 6,585 (10) (10)
Cost of sales (7,259) (2) (2) (1,876) (3) (5) (1,978) 3 5 (1,625) 1 – (1,780) (8) (7)
Selling, general and administration (8,429) (31) (32) (2,064) (50) (52) (2,067) 4 6 (2,244) (39) (42) (2,054) (14) (11)
Research and development (3,912) – (1) (1,099) 2 1 (971) 2 2 (944) (1) (5) (898) (4) (4)
Other operating income 610 140 91 62 317
Operating profit 8,397 65 64 2,079 >100 >100 2,179 3 2 1,969 >100 >100 2,170 (5) (9)
Finance income 90 29 19 23 19
Finance costs (797) (203) (190) (211) (193)
Profit on disposal of interest in associates 585 1 – – 584
Share of after tax profits/(losses) of associates and joint ventures 15 (4) (2) 2 19
Profit before taxation 8,290 86 84 1,902 >100 >100 2,006 2 2 1,783 >100 >100 2,599 21 16
Taxation (2,354) (463) (515) (475) (901)
Tax rate % 28.4% 24.3% 25.7% 26.6% 34.7%
Profit after taxation for the period 5,936 >100 >100 1,439 >100 >100 1,491 – – 1,308 >100 >100 1,698 9 5
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 197 32 65 41 59
Profit attributable to shareholders 5,739 1,407 1,426 1,267 1,639
Adjusted earnings per share (pence) 114.1p >100 >100 28.4p >100 >100 28.5p 1 1 25.0p >100 >100 32.2p 9 5
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 112.5p 28.0p 28.2p 24.7p 31.9p
The calculation of results before major restructuring is described in Note 1 to the financial statements, ‘Presentation of the
financial statements’.223 GSK Annual Report 2011
Quarterly trend
An unaudited analysis of the Group results and Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines sales by therapeutic area is provided by quarter in
Sterling for the financial year 2011.
Income statement – total 12 months 2011 Q4 2011 Q3 2011 Q2 2011 Q1 2011
£m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Turnover – Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 22,192 (4) (5) 5,710 (3) (4) 5,775 3 4 5,443 (3) (6) 5,264 (14) (14)
– Consumer Healthcare 5,195 5 4 1,268 3 – 1,329 5 6 1,277 4 2 1,321 7 7
Total turnover 27,387 (3) (4) 6,978 (2) (3) 7,104 3 4 6,720 (2) (4) 6,585 (10) (10)
Cost of sales (7,332) (3) (3) (1,895) (7) (9) (1,998) 3 5 (1,644) 1 (1) (1,795) (8) (8)
Selling, general and administration (8,826 (32) (32) (2,226) (48) (50) (2,098) 1 3 (2,345) (41) (44) (2,157) (12) (8)
Research and development (4,009) (9) (10) (1,095) – – (984) (2) (2) (1,015) (12) (15) (915) (20) (21)
Other operating income 587 117 91 62 317
Operating profit 7,807 >100 >100 1,879 >100 >100 2,115 8 8 1,778 >100 >100 2,035 2 (3)
Finance income 90 29 19 23 19
Finance costs (799) (204) (191) (211) (193)
Profit on disposal of interest in associates 585 1 – – 584
Share of after tax profits/(losses) of associates and joint ventures 15 (4) (2) 2 19
Profit before taxation 7,698 >100 >100 1,701 >100 >100 1,941 8 8 1,592 >100 >100 2,464 33 28
Taxation (2,240) (417) (498) (445) (880)
Tax rate % 29.1% 24.5% 25.7% 28.0% 35.7%
Profit after taxation for the period 5,458 >100 >100 1,284 >100 >100 1,443 8 7 1,147 >100 >100 1,584 18 14
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 197 32 65 41 59
Profit attributable to shareholders 5,261 1,252 1,378 1,106 1,525
Basic earnings per share (pence) 104.6p >100 >100 25.2p >100 >100 27.6p 9 9 21.8p >100 >100 30.0p 18 14
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 103.2p 24.9p 27.2p 21.6p 29.6p
Income statement – results before major restructuring
Total turnover 27,387 (3) (4) 6,978 (2) (3) 7,104 3 4 6,720 (2) (4) 6,585 (10) (10)
Cost of sales (7,259) (2) (2) (1,876) (3) (5) (1,978) 3 5 (1,625) 1 – (1,780) (8) (7)
Selling, general and administration (8,429) (31) (32) (2,064) (50) (52) (2,067) 4 6 (2,244) (39) (42) (2,054) (14) (11)
Research and development (3,912) – (1) (1,099) 2 1 (971) 2 2 (944) (1) (5) (898) (4) (4)
Other operating income 610 140 91 62 317
Operating profit 8,397 65 64 2,079 >100 >100 2,179 3 2 1,969 >100 >100 2,170 (5) (9)
Finance income 90 29 19 23 19
Finance costs (797) (203) (190) (211) (193)
Profit on disposal of interest in associates 585 1 – – 584
Share of after tax profits/(losses) of associates and joint ventures 15 (4) (2) 2 19
Profit before taxation 8,290 86 84 1,902 >100 >100 2,006 2 2 1,783 >100 >100 2,599 21 16
Taxation (2,354) (463) (515) (475) (901)
Tax rate % 28.4% 24.3% 25.7% 26.6% 34.7%
Profit after taxation for the period 5,936 >100 >100 1,439 >100 >100 1,491 – – 1,308 >100 >100 1,698 9 5
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 197 32 65 41 59
Profit attributable to shareholders 5,739 1,407 1,426 1,267 1,639
Adjusted earnings per share (pence) 114.1p >100 >100 28.4p >100 >100 28.5p 1 1 25.0p >100 >100 32.2p 9 5
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 112.5p 28.0p 28.2p 24.7p 31.9p
The calculation of results before major restructuring is described in Note 1 to the financial statements, ‘Presentation of the
financial statements’.224 GSK Annual Report 2011
Shareholder Quarterly trend continued
information
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines turnover by therapeutic area 2011
Total USA Europe Emerging Markets Rest of World
2010
Therapeutic area/ 2011 (restated) Growth 2011 Growth 2011 Growth 2011 Growth 2011 Growth
major products £m £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Respiratory 7,298 7,238 2 1 3,301 1 (3) 2,115 (2) (2) 642 8 4 1,240 10 15
Avamys/Veramyst 241 193 24 25 62 (6) (10) 65 14 16 44 45 42 70 78 89
Flixonase/Flonase 138 164 (17) (16) 7 (78) (81) 37 (8) (8) 45 15 15 49 (4) 2
Flixotide/Flovent 813 804 3 1 447 8 4 151 (6) (5) 48 6 – 167 (4) 1
Seretide/Advair 5,061 5,139 – (2) 2,475 (1) (5) 1,580 (2) (1) 317 – (3) 689 9 14
Serevent 182 201 (9) (9) 62 2 (3) 85 (14) (13) 3 50 50 32 (19) (14)
Ventolin 602 522 17 15 239 39 34 141 (1) (1) 121 13 8 101 9 13
Xyzal 64 85 94 – – – – – – 9 – – 55 >100 >100
Zyrtec 96 82 12 17 – – – – – – 20 50 43 76 4 12
Anti-virals 807 1,086 (27) (26) 149 (58) (60) 82 (26) (25) 242 9 9 334 (17) (13)
Hepsera 127 128 (3) (1) – – – – – – 61 5 5 66 (9) (4)
Relenza 27 121 (79) (78) 2 (95) (95) – – – – – – 25 (66) (65)
Valtrex 339 532 (38) (36) 72 (70) (71) 48 (31) (29) 31 14 11 188 (4) 2
Zeffix 237 233 1 2 11 (15) (15) 24 (8) (8) 149 9 10 53 (10) (9)
Central nervous 1,721 1,753 (2) (2) 474 (3) (6) 480 (12) (11) 248 14 11 519 2 7
system
Imigran/Imitrex 210 212 (2) (1) 82 12 9 74 (14) (13) 5 – – 49 (4) 4
Keppra 53 20 20 – – – 2 – – 35 20 17 16 25 33
Lamictal 536 504 8 6 277 12 8 131 (10) (8) 57 4 – 71 43 51
Requip 218 233 (7) (6) 42 (2) (5) 113 (18) (18) 4 33 33 59 16 20
Seroxat/Paxil 435 482 (13) (10) (3) <(100) <(100) 66 (20) (20) 79 10 8 293 (8) (2)
Treximet 57 56 5 2 57 7 4 – – – – – – – – –
Wellbutrin 85 81 6 5 16 (33) (33) 45 15 15 19 46 46 5 20 –
Cardiovascular 2,740 2,570 8 7 1,564 3 – 656 6 8 174 34 30 346 31 36
and urogenital
Arixtra 276 301 (7) (8) 147 (14) (17) 97 (3) (2) 15 60 50 17 – 13
Avodart 748 629 20 19 331 2 (2) 223 26 27 41 30 24 153 74 82
Coreg 155 171 (6) (9) 154 (6) (9) – – – – – – 1 – –
Fraxiparine 234 222 5 5 – – – 162 5 5 69 29 25 3 (85) (77)
Lovaza 569 530 12 7 567 12 7 – – – – – – 2 – –
Vesicare 126 114 15 11 126 16 12 – – – – – – – – –
Volibris 97 46 >100 >100 – – – 69 70 73 5 >100 >100 23 >100 >100
Metabolic 362 678 (47) (47) 90 (61) (62) 67 (60) (60) 67 (23) (26) 138 (28) (25)
Avandia products 123 440 (71) (72) 91 (60) (62) (3) <(100) <(100) 16 (62) (62) 19 (74) (74)
Bonviva/Boniva 65 78 (17) (17) – – – 47 (27) (27) 2 50 – 16 25 33
Anti-bacterials 1,390 1,396 1 – 54 (25) (28) 513 (5) (4) 649 11 6 174 (1) 1
Augmentin 641 625 4 3 – – – 248 3 3 311 11 7 82 (1) –
Oncology and 693 688 2 1 272 (19) (22) 249 22 24 76 27 23 96 23 28
emesis
Arzerra 44 31 45 42 31 23 19 12 >100 >100 – – – 1 – –
Hycamtin 57 144 (60) (60) 6 (92) (93) 40 (19) (17) 5 (29) (29) 6 – –
Promacta 75 31 >100 >100 32 36 28 23 >100 >100 4 – – 16 >100 >100
Tyverb/Tykerb 231 227 2 2 64 (6) (9) 97 2 3 36 23 20 34 – 3
Votrient 100 38 >100 >100 56 76 70 37 >100 >100 6 – – 1 – –
Vaccines 3,497 4,326 (19) (19) 814 11 7 1,091 (36) (35) 810 (12) (13) 782 (21) (18)
Boostrix 192 181 7 6 108 2 (2) 48 9 12 8 (11) (11) 28 37 47
Cervarix 506 242 >100 >100 8 (31) (38) 58 (50) (50) 50 96 92 390 >100 >100
Fluarix, FluLaval 230 241 (2) (5) 132 25 20 40 (38) (37) 28 (28) (30) 30 7 7
Flu Pandemic 18 1,192 (98) (98) – – – 13 (97) (97) – – – 5 (99) (99)
Hepatitis 688 720 (3) (4) 293 (1) (5) 227 (7) (6) 84 (3) (5) 84 (1) 1
Infanrix, Pediarix 690 700 (2) (1) 163 16 12 403 (7) (6) 44 (10) (12) 80 – 7
Rotarix 300 235 31 28 110 55 49 41 8 8 110 12 8 39 76 86
Synflorix 350 221 57 58 – – – 52 21 21 276 85 85 22 (31) (24)
Dermatologicals 1,087 1,087 1 – 287 (17) (20) 251 1 2 354 28 24 195 (5) (1)
Bactroban 123 119 6 3 51 4 – 28 4 4 30 14 7 14 – 8
Dermovate 87 74 19 18 – – – 24 26 26 35 23 17 28 8 12
Duac 109 116 (3) (6) 60 (6) (10) 24 – 4 11 9 – 14 (7) (7)
Soriatane 75 71 8 6 74 8 4 – – – – – – 1 – –
Zovirax 109 152 (29) (28) 11 (79) (79) 27 (4) – 28 12 8 43 (9) (7)
Other 1,028 994 4 3 30 29 25 263 (15) (15) 418 15 9 317 8 12
20,623 21,816 (5) (5) 7,035 (5) (8) 5,767 (13) (12) 3,680 6 3 4,141 (2) 2
ViiV Healthcare
(HIV) 1,569 1,566 1 – 660 4 – 574 (3) (2) 199 9 9 136 (4) (2)
Combivir 322 363 (10) (11) 127 (8) (11) 93 (21) (21) 83 8 5 19 (29) (21)
Epivir 110 115 (3) (4) 39 3 (3) 32 (14) (14) 27 13 13 12 (21) (14)
Epzicom/Kivexa 617 555 12 11 230 14 10 272 10 11 43 13 13 72 10 16
Lexiva 142 155 (7) (8) 74 (4) (8) 45 (14) (12) 16 23 23 7 (36) (36)
Selzentry 110 80 39 38 45 38 32 51 24 24 4 100 100 10 >100 >100
Trizivir 126 144 (11) (13) 67 (4) (8) 50 (18) (17) 5 25 25 4 (43) (43)
22,192 23,382 (4) (5)
CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates. £% represents growth at actual exchange rates. Turnover by quarter is given on pages 226 to 230.225 GSK Annual Report 2011
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines turnover by therapeutic area 2010
Total USA Europe Emerging Markets Rest of World
2009
Therapeutic area/ 2010 (restated) Growth 2010 Growth 2010 Growth 2010 Growth 2010 Growth
major products £m £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Respiratory 7,238 6,977 3 4 3,394 1 2 2,149 – (2) 616 19 21 1,079 4 14
Avamys/Veramyst 193 142 33 36 69 – 1 56 27 24 31 >100 >100 37 94 >100
Flixonase/Flonase 164 171 (5) (4) 37 37 37 40 (7) (7) 39 11 11 48 (30) (27)
Flixotide/Flovent 804 775 2 4 431 8 9 159 (9) (11) 48 38 41 166 (10) (1)
Seretide/Advair 5,139 4,977 2 3 2,604 – – 1,601 2 – 328 16 19 606 10 21
Serevent 201 236 (16) (15) 64 (12) (12) 98 (16) (16) 2 (33) (33) 37 (23) (16)
Ventolin 522 477 8 9 179 16 17 142 (3) (5) 112 19 20 89 (2) 10
Zyrtec 82 75 4 9 – – – – – – 14 – – 68 5 11
Anti-virals 1,086 2,416 (56) (55) 370 (68) (68) 109 (73) (73) 223 (3) (1) 384 (44) (39)
Hepsera 128 114 6 12 – – – 1 – – 58 10 14 69 2 10
Relenza 121 720 (84) (83) 43 (69) (69) 6 (97) (97) 1 (97) (97) 71 (80) (79)
Valtrex 532 1,294 (60) (59) 252 (73) (73) 68 (56) (58) 28 8 8 184 2 11
Zeffix 233 217 4 7 13 (24) (24) 26 (10) (10) 136 17 18 58 (5) 4
Central nervous 1,753 1,870 (8) (6) 505 (23) (22) 540 (4) (6) 223 17 17 485 (2) 7
system
Imigran/Imitrex 212 266 (21) (20) 75 (39) (39) 85 (10) (11) 5 – – 47 2 12
Lamictal 504 500 1 1 257 (4) (4) 143 (6) (7) 57 23 19 47 42 52
Requip 233 209 11 11 44 69 69 137 2 (1) 3 50 50 49 2 14
Seroxat/Paxil 482 523 (12) (8) 27 (36) (36) 82 (15) (17) 73 (3) (4) 300 (9) (2)
Treximet 56 55 2 2 55 2 – – – – – – – 1 – –
Wellbutrin 81 132 (39) (39) 24 (73) (73) 39 33 30 13 30 30 5 (25) 25
Cardiovascular 2,570 2,298 11 12 1,571 10 11 610 7 5 134 25 24 255 23 33
and urogenital
Arixtra 301 254 19 19 177 25 26 99 8 4 10 43 43 15 18 36
Avodart 629 530 18 19 337 5 6 175 22 18 33 50 50 84 90 >100
Coreg 171 172 (1) (1) 170 (1) (1) – – – – – – 1 – –
Fraxiparine 222 229 (2) (3) – – – 154 (9) (11) 55 29 31 13 (7) (7)
Lovaza 530 450 17 18 528 17 18 – – – – – – 2 – –
Vesicare 114 104 9 10 113 8 9 – – – – – – 1 – –
Volibris 46 19 >100 >100 – – – 40 >100 >100 1 – – 5 >100 >100
Metabolic 678 1,181 (44) (43) 238 (59) (59) 166 (38) (40) 91 (24) (24) 183 (17) (11)
Avandia products 440 771 (44) (43) 237 (45) (44) 88 (48) (49) 42 (43) (45) 73 (32) (26)
Bonviva/Boniva 78 255 (69) (69) – (100) (100) 64 (26) (28) 2 – – 12 22 33
Anti-bacterials 1,396 1,457 (4) (4) 75 (28) (27) 536 (14) (16) 609 10 10 176 1 7
Augmentin 625 667 (6) (6) 11 (76) (76) 240 (17) (19) 291 15 14 83 10 17
Oncology and 688 629 9 9 350 13 14 201 1 (1) 62 7 9 75 17 25
emesis
Arzerra 31 3 >100 >100 26 >100 >100 4 – – – – – 1 – –
Hycamtin 144 172 (16) (16) 83 (17) (17) 48 (17) (19) 7 17 17 6 (14) (14)
Promacta 31 13 >100 >100 25 92 92 5 – – – – – 1 – –
Tyverb/Tykerb 227 169 34 34 70 28 30 94 28 25 30 36 36 33 72 83
Votrient 38 1 >100 >100 33 >100 >100 4 – – – – – 1 – –
Vaccines 4,326 3,706 15 17 763 (7) (6) 1,681 (2) (4) 927 38 39 955 85 100
Boostrix 181 139 29 30 110 51 51 43 10 8 9 29 29 19 (16) –
Cervarix 242 187 26 29 13 >100 >100 116 (14) (16) 25 4 9 88 >100 >100
Fluarix, FluLaval 241 211 14 14 110 51 51 63 (8) (11) 40 (5) (5) 28 – 12
Flu Pandemic 1,192 883 31 35 1 (99) (99) 488 (6) (7) 226 >100 >100 477 >100 >100
Hepatitis 720 665 7 8 307 19 19 242 (6) (8) 88 8 10 83 15 26
Infanrix, Pediarix 700 649 8 8 146 8 9 429 8 6 50 13 11 75 3 17
Rotarix 235 282 (18) (17) 74 (4) (3) 38 (28) (28) 102 (22) (21) 21 (17) (13)
Synflorix 221 73 >100 >100 – – – 43 38 34 149 >100 >100 29 >100 >100
Dermatologicals 1,087 707 51 54 358 70 70 246 48 45 286 52 56 197 26 37
Bactroban 119 123 (3) (3) 51 (14) (14) 27 8 4 28 7 4 13 – 18
Dermovate 74 – – – – – – 19 – – 30 – – 25 – –
Duac 116 46 >100 >100 67 >100 >100 23 >100 >100 11 >100 >100 15 >100 >100
Soriatane 71 28 >100 >100 71 >100 >100 – – – – – – – – –
Zovirax 152 129 15 18 53 >100 >100 27 (10) (10) 26 9 13 46 (14) (8)
Other 994 848 16 17 24 53 41 310 9 6 385 37 38 275 – 6
21,816 22,089 (2) (1) 7,648 (11) (11) 6,548 (6) (8) 3,556 22 23 4,064 6 15
ViiV Healthcare
(HIV) 1,566 1,605 (3) (2) 660 (8) (8) 585 (5) (8) 146 35 39 175 7 16
Combivir 363 425 (16) (15) 143 (24) (24) 117 (21) (23) 63 22 29 40 (3) 5
Epivir 115 129 (12) (11) 40 (17) (17) 37 (22) (24) 18 31 38 20 – 5
Epzicom/Kivexa 555 546 1 2 210 (7) (6) 245 3 – 29 38 38 71 14 22
Lexiva 155 178 (12) (13) 80 (19) (19) 51 (15) (18) 13 86 86 11 – 10
Selzentry 80 1 >100 >100 34 – – 41 >100 >100 2 – – 3 – –
Trizivir 144 201 (28) (28) 73 (30) (30) 60 (26) (27) 4 (43) (43) 7 (13) (13)
23,382 23,694 (2) (1)
CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates. £% represents growth at actual exchange rates.226 GSK Annual Report 2011
Shareholder Quarterly trend
information
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines turnover – total Group
Q4 2011 Q3 2011 Q2 2011 Q1 2011
£m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Respiratory 1,957 3 2 1,714 (2) (1) 1,812 2 (1) 1,815 3 3
Avamys/Veramyst 55 12 10 50 23 25 64 14 12 72 52 57
Flixonase/Flonase 31 (16) (16) 28 (16) (13) 31 (36) (38) 48 2 7
Flixotide/Flovent 232 7 5 183 (3) (2) 196 1 (2) 202 4 3
Seretide/Advair 1,351 2 – 1,217 (3) (2) 1,270 2 (1) 1,223 (2) (3)
Serevent 44 (12) (12) 43 (10) (10) 43 (17) (17) 52 2 2
Ventolin 171 23 20 136 5 5 149 15 11 146 27 26
Xyzal 22 (9) (4) 12 >100 >100 15 >100 >100 15 >100 >100
Zyrtec 24 – 4 21 5 11 20 – – 31 45 55
Anti-virals 195 (15) (13) 202 (10) (7) 209 (26) (27) 201 (45) (44)
Hepsera 37 9 12 32 (6) – 30 (9) (12) 28 (7) (3)
Relenza 4 (55) (64) 2 (94) (89) 12 38 50 9 (89) (89)
Valtrex 76 (23) (21) 87 (12) (8) 86 (48) (48) 90 (51) (49)
Zeffix 56 (14) (13) 63 11 15 62 3 – 56 6 8
Central nervous system 446 (1) (1) 458 3 5 421 (6) (6) 396 (6) (5)
Imigran/Imitrex 54 6 8 54 – 2 51 (2) (2) 51 (12) (11)
Keppra 17 21 21 13 (13) (13) 12 33 33 11 83 83
Lamictal 141 9 8 153 18 17 128 7 4 114 (4) (5)
Requip 52 (13) (13) 56 (7) (3) 57 (5) (5) 53 (4) (4)
Seroxat/Paxil 116 (13) (9) 109 (9) (5) 107 (21) (20) 103 (8) (3)
Treximet 15 7 7 14 – 8 14 (6) (13) 14 15 8
Wellbutrin 20 (5) (9) 23 33 28 23 5 10 19 (5) (5)
Cardiovascular and urogenital 719 4 3 700 7 8 706 13 8 615 9 8
Arixtra 56 (30) (30) 71 (3) (1) 75 (1) (5) 74 9 6
Avodart 206 17 16 188 19 21 188 24 20 166 20 19
Coreg 41 2 – 38 (11) (14) 39 (5) (11) 37 (10) (12)
Fraxiparine 60 13 9 60 7 11 60 4 5 54 (2) (4)
Lovaza 158 10 7 139 2 1 145 14 5 127 21 19
Vesicare 32 6 3 33 21 18 33 17 10 28 16 12
Volibris 28 69 75 25 >100 >100 22 >100 >100 22 >100 >100
Metabolic 103 (5) (6) 83 (35) (34) 85 (60) (60) 91 (60) (60)
Avandia products 39 (20) (20) 22 (67) (69) 26 (82) (83) 36 (79) (79)
Bonviva/Boniva 14 (17) (22) 17 (6) – 18 (15) (10) 16 (26) (30)
Anti-bacterials 355 (1) (4) 323 (3) (3) 333 – (1) 379 8 6
Augmentin 173 7 3 139 (10) (9) 142 – (1) 187 19 17
Oncology and emesis 182 8 6 196 13 14 165 (4) (6) 150 (10) (11)
Arzerra 12 33 33 12 33 33 11 38 38 9 100 80
Hycamtin 12 (55) (59) 18 (49) (49) 13 (70) (68) 14 (65) (65)
Promacta 24 >100 >100 22 >100 >100 17 >100 >100 12 100 100
Tyverb/Tykerb 59 – (2) 61 3 5 59 7 5 52 (2) (2)
Votrient 31 >100 >100 30 >100 >100 22 >100 >100 17 >100 >100
Vaccines 810 (18) (19) 1,142 14 16 787 (15) (16) 758 (46) (46)
Boostrix 45 (10) (8) 62 7 5 53 26 23 32 7 7
Cervarix 100 46 49 232 >100 >100 65 30 30 109 34 42
Fluarix, FluLaval 54 (22) (22) 159 (2) (5) 8 – – 9 60 80
Flu pandemic 8 (95) (95) 1 (98) (98) 4 (99) (99) 5 (99) (99)
Hepatitis 161 (1) (2) 178 (6) (6) 191 15 12 158 (19) (20)
Infanrix, Pediarix 181 (4) (5) 192 12 14 156 (11) (11) 161 (2) (3)
Rotarix 73 (5) (8) 75 44 44 75 >100 92 77 20 18
Synflorix 67 44 40 107 14 19 99 >100 >100 77 73 71
Dermatologicals 266 (5) (8) 283 4 4 265 4 1 273 3 3
Bactroban 29 3 – 36 9 9 30 3 – 28 7 4
Dermovate 24 14 9 22 17 22 22 21 16 19 27 27
Duac 26 4 (4) 30 (12) (9) 25 (7) (14) 28 4 4
Soriatane 22 29 29 19 – – 17 12 – 17 (6) (6)
Zovirax 26 (33) (33) 25 (19) (19) 22 (33) (33) 36 (29) (27)
Other 275 (9) (10) 239 1 – 281 19 17 233 10 10
5,308 (3) (4) 5,340 3 4 5,064 (4) (6) 4,911 (14) (15)
ViiV Healthcare (HIV) 402 1 – 435 7 8 379 – (3) 353 (4) (5)
Combivir 68 (29) (31) 112 17 18 71 (16) (18) 71 (12) (13)
Epivir 27 (7) (7) 28 (10) (10) 29 11 7 26 (7) (7)
Epzicom/Kivexa 170 17 16 160 14 16 147 7 5 140 8 7
Lexiva 38 6 6 35 (13) (13) 37 – (3) 32 (20) (22)
Selzentry 33 50 50 28 40 40 26 37 37 23 26 21
Trizivir 32 3 – 33 (16) (13) 31 (8) (14) 30 (21) (21)
5,710 (3) (4) 5,775 3 4 5,443 (3) (6) 5,264 (14) (14)
Pharmaceutical turnover includes co-promotion income.227 GSK Annual Report 2011
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines turnover – USA
Q4 2011 Q3 2011 Q2 2011 Q1 2011
£m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Respiratory 919 7 5 783 (6) (7) 808 2 (7) 791 1 (2)
Avamys/Veramyst 13 (18) (24) 17 13 13 17 (5) (15) 15 (12) (12)
Flixonase/Flonase 1 (80) (80) 2 (63) (75) 1 (94) (94) 3 (50) (50)
Flixotide/Flovent 134 17 14 100 (3) (5) 106 6 (3) 107 11 8
Seretide/Advair 682 4 2 593 (7) (9) 614 2 (6) 586 (5) (7)
Serevent 14 – (7) 15 (6) (6) 12 (24) (29) 21 38 31
Ventolin 72 49 47 54 10 8 57 38 27 56 66 60
Xyzal – – – – – – – – – – – –
Zyrtec – – – – – – – – – – – –
Anti-virals 29 (29) (29) 40 (28) (30) 39 (64) (67) 41 (73) (73)
Hepsera – – – – – – – – – – – –
Relenza 2 >100 >100 – – – – – – – – –
Valtrex 6 (75) (75) 22 (19) (19) 22 (74) (77) 22 (79) (79)
Zeffix 3 (33) – 1 (33) (67) 3 (25) (25) 4 33 33
Central nervous system 121 7 6 140 16 13 110 (9) (16) 103 (23) (24)
Imigran/Imitrex 20 40 33 21 17 17 20 11 11 21 (8) (13)
Keppra – – – – – – – – – – – –
Lamictal 70 9 6 88 29 26 66 20 10 53 (11) (13)
Requip 11 10 10 11 (15) (15) 10 – (9) 10 – –
Seroxat/Paxil – – – – – – (4) – – 1 (90) (90)
Treximet 15 14 7 14 – 8 14 – (7) 14 15 8
Wellbutrin 3 (71) (57) 5 50 25 5 (20) – 3 (50) (63)
Cardiovascular and urogenital 406 (2) (4) 404 1 (1) 410 10 2 344 5 2
Arixtra 23 (51) (53) 39 (9) (9) 41 (2) (11) 44 15 13
Avodart 89 6 3 79 (8) (9) 87 8 (1) 76 3 –
Coreg 40 2 (2) 39 (12) (9) 38 (5) (14) 37 (10) (12)
Fraxiparine – – – – – – – – – – – –
Lovaza 158 10 8 139 4 1 144 13 4 126 21 18
Vesicare 33 10 6 32 22 19 33 17 10 28 16 12
Volibris – – – – – – – – – – – –
Metabolic 30 (23) (25) 14 (56) (56) 20 (71) (74) 26 (70) (71)
Avandia products 31 (25) (23) 14 (52) (58) 20 (72) (73) 26 (70) (71)
Bonviva/Boniva – – – – – – – – – – – –
Anti-bacterials 6 (63) (63) 13 – (7) 16 (19) (24) 19 (21) (21)
Augmentin (1) – – (1) – – (1) – – 3 (63 ) (63 )
Oncology and emesis 72 (3) (4) 84 (3) (6) 57 (33) (39) 59 (35) (36)
Arzerra 8 33 33 9 13 13 7 14 – 7 40 40
Hycamtin 2 (79) (86) 4 (81) (81) – – – – – –
Promacta 8 50 33 10 67 67 8 29 14 6 – –
Tyverb/Tykerb 17 – – 19 11 6 15 (11) (17) 13 (24) (24)
Votrient 16 45 45 16 89 78 12 63 50 12 >100 >100
Vaccines 158 (6) (8) 323 20 16 178 36 24 155 (7) (9)
Boostrix 23 (18) (18) 43 10 5 27 12 4 15 – –
Cervarix 1 100 – 4 (25) – 2 (50) (67) 1 (50) (50)
Fluarix, FluLaval 17 (39) (39) 109 40 35 5 – – 1 – –
Flu pandemic – – – – – – – – – – – –
Hepatitis 59 7 5 82 (14) (15) 82 47 32 70 (23) (24)
Infanrix, Pediarix 32 (8) (11) 60 61 58 31 (13) (23) 40 28 25
Rotarix 25 29 19 25 47 47 33 >100 >100 27 4 –
Synflorix – – – – – – – – – – – –
Dermatologicals 68 (27) (28) 80 (12) (14) 62 (7) (16) 77 (20) (21)
Bactroban 13 8 8 16 14 14 11 (7) (21) 11 – –
Dermovate – – – – – – – – – – – –
Duac 14 – (7) 17 (15) (15) 13 – (13) 16 (6) (6)
Soriatane 21 29 24 19 – – 17 12 – 17 (6) (6)
Zovirax – (100) (100) 1 (88) (88) (1) – <(100) 11 (58) (58)
Other 7 67 17 11 13 38 8 17 33 4 25 –
1,816 – (2) 1,892 (1) (3) 1,708 (4) (12) 1,619 (13) (15)
ViiV Healthcare (HIV) 176 10 8 177 11 9 154 (4) (13) 153 (1) (4)
Combivir 30 (12) (12) 37 8 3 30 (18) (23) 30 (9) (12)
Epivir 9 – (10 10 – – 9 (10) (10) 11 20 10
Epzicom/Kivexa 65 20 18 61 26 22 53 2 (7) 51 8 6
Lexiva 20 – – 19 5 – 18 (5) (10) 17 (14) (19)
Selzentry 13 44 44 12 63 50 10 22 11 10 25 25
Trizivir 18 13 13 17 (5) (11) 17 – (11) 15 (21) (21)
Pharmaceutical turnover includes co-promotion income.228 GSK Annual Report 2011
Shareholder Quarterly trend continued
information
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines turnover – Europe
Q4 2011 Q3 2011 Q2 2011 Q1 2011
£m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Respiratory 524 (5) (6) 502 (1) 3 552 1 3 537 (4) (6)
Avamys/Veramyst 14 17 17 13 20 30 22 5 5 16 23 23
Flixonase/Flonase 8 (10) (20) 9 – 13 11 (17) (8) 9 – (10)
Flixotide/Flovent 37 (10) (12) 35 – 6 39 (3) – 40 (9) (11)
Seretide/Advair 390 (5) (6) 384 – 4 407 2 4 399 (4) (6)
Serevent 20 (17) (17) 21 (17) (13) 22 (8) (8) 22 (15) (15)
Ventolin 38 3 – 32 (6) – 35 – – 36 (3) (3)
Xyzal – – – – – – – – – – – –
Zyrtec – – – – – – – – – – – –
Anti-virals 20 (17) (17) 20 (21) (17) 22 (19) (15) 20 (40) (43)
Hepsera – – – – – – – – – – – –
Relenza – – – – – – – – – – – –
Valtrex 12 (27) (20) 11 (14) (21) 13 (25) (19) 12 (48) (48)
Zeffix 5 – (17) 7 (14) – 6 – – 6 (14) (14)
Central nervous system 114 (12) (14) 123 (11) (6) 123 (12) (10) 120 (14) (14)
Imigran/Imitrex 18 (5) (10) 20 (14) (9) 19 (14) (10) 17 (23) (23)
Keppra 1 – – – – – 1 – – – – –
Lamictal 32 (6) (6) 33 (9) (6) 33 (16) (11) 33 (8) (11)
Requip 22 (33) (33) 29 (9) (9) 32 (17) (11) 30 (14) (17)
Seroxat/Paxil 17 (11) (11) 16 (16) (16) 17 (27) (23) 16 (23) (27)
Treximet – – – – – – – – – – – –
Wellbutrin 11 9 – 12 10 20 12 33 33 10 11 11
Cardiovascular and urogenital 161 3 1 165 9 15 169 6 10 161 8 5
Arixtra 24 – – 23 5 5 26 (7) (4) 24 (8) (8)
Avodart 60 22 20 58 37 41 55 20 25 50 28 25
Coreg – – – – – – – – – – – –
Fraxiparine 39 8 3 42 18 24 42 3 8 39 (7) (9)
Lovaza – – – – – – – – – – – –
Vesicare – – – – – – – – – – – –
Volibris 17 31 31 18 70 80 17 89 89 17 >100 >100
Metabolic 16 31 23 18 (54) (51) 17 (71) (69) 16 (72) (74)
Avandia products – – – (1) <(100) <100 (2) – <(100) – – –
Bonviva/Boniva 9 (29) (36) 12 (15) (8) 14 (24) (18) 12 (35) (40)
Anti-bacterials 123 (18) (20) 112 (12) (7) 122 (3) 2 156 12 10
Augmentin 63 (7) (9) 54 (7) (2) 56 4 6 75 21 19
Oncology and emesis 62 15 13 66 29 35 64 32 36 57 16 14
Arzerra 3 – – 3 >100 >100 3 – – 3 – –
Hycamtin 8 (33) (33) 11 (9) – 10 (17) (17) 11 (15) (15)
Promacta 8 >100 >100 6 >100 >100 5 >100 >100 4 – –
Tyverb/Tykerb 22 (8) (12) 24 (4) 4 27 23 23 24 – –
Votrient 12 >100 >100 12 >100 >100 8 – – 5 – –
Vaccines 290 (25) (26) 285 (12) (8) 275 (27) (25) 241 (60) (61)
Boostrix 14 27 27 13 – 8 12 9 9 9 – –
Cervarix 17 (28) (32) 12 – 9 14 (33) (33) 15 (75) (75)
Fluarix, FluLaval 18 31 38 24 (52) (52) (2) – – – – –
Flu pandemic 2 (98) (98) 2 – – 4 (96) (96) 5 (98) (98)
Hepatitis 54 (14) (14) 55 (4) – 64 (2) 2 54 (10) (11)
Infanrix, Pediarix 115 (3) (4) 97 (4) 1 100 (12) (8) 91 (11) (13)
Rotarix 10 22 11 11 25 38 10 25 25 10 (23) (23)
Synflorix 16 >100 100 11 11 22 12 (14) (14) 13 8 8
Dermatologicals 61 – (2) 62 – 5 66 3 5 62 2 –
Bactroban 6 (14) (14) 8 14 14 7 – – 7 17 17
Dermovate 6 20 20 6 20 20 6 20 20 6 50 50
Duac 6 – – 6 – 20 6 – – 6 – –
Soriatane – – – – – – – – – – – –
Zovirax 7 (14) – 7 17 17 6 (14) (14) 7 – –
Other 74 (22) (24) 57 (12) (12) 67 (19) (13) 65 (1) (4)
1,445 (11) (12) 1,410 (5) (1) 1,477 (9) (6) 1,435 (23) (24)
ViiV Healthcare (HIV) 138 (3) (5) 145 1 7 146 (3) – 145 (7) (8)
Combivir 19 (29) (32) 22 (19) (15) 25 (20) (17) 27 (18) (18)
Epivir 7 (13) (13) 8 (11) (11) 8 (20) (20) 9 (10) (10)
Epzicom/Kivexa 70 13 11 69 16 21 68 8 11 65 3 2
Lexiva 10 – – 11 (23) (15) 12 (8) (8) 12 (20) (20)
Selzentry 12 9 9 14 40 40 13 30 30 12 20 20
Trizivir 11 (21) (21) 13 (20) (13) 13 (7) (7) 13 (24) (24)
Pharmaceutical turnover includes co-promotion income.229 GSK Annual Report 2011
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines turnover – Emerging Markets
Q4 2011 Q3 2011 Q2 2011 Q1 2011
£m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Respiratory 174 13 7 153 8 5 165 4 (1) 150 6 5
Avamys/Veramyst 12 44 33 11 38 38 13 44 44 8 40 40
Flixonase/Flonase 12 – 9 12 33 33 12 30 20 9 – –
Flixotide/Flovent 13 17 8 11 20 10 11 – (8) 13 (7) (7)
Seretide/Advair 85 5 – 75 – (3) 81 (1) (6) 76 (6) (6)
Serevent 1 – – 1 – – – (100) (100) 1 – –
Ventolin 34 20 13 27 4 – 30 3 (3) 30 30 30
Xyzal 3 – – 2 (33) (33) 2 (33) (33) 2 – –
Zyrtec 6 50 50 5 50 25 4 – – 5 >100 >100
Anti-virals 64 3 5 65 14 16 61 8 3 52 9 11
Hepsera 19 20 27 16 – – 13 (7) (13) 13 8 –
Relenza – – – – – – – – – – – –
Valtrex 9 25 13 8 14 14 8 – – 6 20 20
Zeffix 35 (13) (10) 41 25 28 40 14 11 33 10 14
Central nervous system 66 8 5 65 6 3 57 13 8 60 30 30
Imigran/Imitrex 1 – – 2 100 100 1 (50) (50) 1 – –
Keppra 12 20 20 9 (17) (25) 7 40 40 7 >100 >100
Lamictal 16 6 – 14 (7) (7) 13 – (7) 14 17 17
Requip 1 – – 1 – – 2 100 100 – – –
Seroxat/Paxil 20 5 5 21 5 11 18 – (10) 20 40 40
Treximet – – – – – – – – – – – –
Wellbutrin 5 – 25 6 100 100 3 67 – 5 33 33
Cardiovascular and urogenital 51 44 42 45 35 32 43 28 19 35 29 25
Arixtra 5 67 67 4 33 33 3 100 50 3 50 50
Avodart 11 33 22 12 50 50 10 22 11 8 50 50
Coreg – – – – – – – – – – – –
Fraxiparine 20 40 33 17 13 13 17 29 21 15 36 36
Lovaza – – – – – – – – – – – –
Vesicare – – – – – – – – – – – –
Volibris 2 – – 1 – – 1 – – 1 – –
Metabolic 19 24 12 16 42 33 15 (52) (52) 17 (43) (43)
Avandia products 5 67 67 4 100 100 2 (89) (89) 5 (74) (74)
Bonviva/Boniva – – – 1 – – – – (100) 1 – –
Anti-bacterials 181 19 13 155 5 2 151 5 (2) 162 14 11
Augmentin 89 21 14 66 (8) (11) 68 3 (3) 88 25 23
Oncology and emesis 24 53 41 20 18 18 18 19 13 14 8 8
Arzerra – – – – – – – – – – – –
Hycamtin 1 – – 1 (50) (50) 1 (50) (50) 2 50 –
Promacta 2 – – 1 – – 1 – – – – –
Tyverb/Tykerb 11 22 22 9 11 – 9 29 29 7 20 20
Votrient 3 – – 2 – – 1 – – – – –
Vaccines 200 (20) (23) 238 9 10 195 9 8 177 (34) (35)
Boostrix 2 (50) (50) 2 – – 3 >100 >100 1 (67) (67)
Cervarix 16 >100 >100 18 100 100 6 17 – 10 >100 >100
Fluarix, FluLaval 13 (30) (35) 9 (53) (53) 3 >100 >100 3 – –
Flu pandemic – – – – – – – – – – – (100)
Hepatitis 25 9 9 23 15 15 23 (4) (8) 13 (35) (40)
Infanrix, Pediarix 12 – (8) 12 (25) (25) 8 (27) (27) 12 10 20
Rotarix 23 (47) (49) 29 55 45 26 35 30 32 88 88
Synflorix 44 34 26 91 18 23 80 >100 >100 61 >100 >100
Dermatologicals 89 17 9 93 30 27 90 35 30 82 32 32
Bactroban 7 14 – 8 13 – 8 14 14 7 17 17
Dermovate 11 – – 8 29 14 9 43 29 7 – –
Duac 3 – – 3 33 – 2 – – 3 (25) (25)
Soriatane – – – – – – – – – – – –
Zovirax 7 33 17 8 33 33 7 (13) (13) 6 – –
Other 105 (3) (6) 99 2 (6) 112 41 32 102 32 26
973 5 – 949 11 9 907 12 7 851 (1) (2)
ViiV Healthcare (HIV) 50 (17) (15) 79 17 14 45 61 61 25 (8) (4)
Combivir 15 (41) (48) 47 62 62 12 9 9 9 (10) (10)
Epivir 7 (13) (13) 8 – – 9 >100 >100 3 (25) (25)
Epzicom/Kivexa 13 8 8 13 (7) (7) 10 25 25 7 75 75
Lexiva 7 >100 >100 2 (57) (71) 6 >100 >100 1 (50) (50)
Selzentry 2 100 100 1 – – 1 – – – – –
Trizivir 2 – – 2 (33) (33) 1 – – – – –
Pharmaceutical turnover includes co-promotion income.230 GSK Annual Report 2011
Shareholder Quarterly trend continued
information
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines turnover – Rest of World
Q4 2011 Q3 2011 Q2 2011 Q1 2011
£m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Respiratory 340 2 5 276 7 12 287 8 10 337 27 35
Avamys/Veramyst 16 25 33 9 29 29 12 57 71 33 >100 >100
Flixonase/Flonase 10 (9) (9) 5 (43) (29) 7 (20) (30) 27 20 35
Flixotide/Flovent 48 (4) – 37 (10) (5 40 (5) (2) 42 5 11
Seretide/Advair 194 7 11 165 7 12 ) 168 7 10 162 18 25
Serevent 9 (27) (18) 6 – (14) 9 (20) (10) 8 (22) (11)
Ventolin 27 4 8 23 10 10 27 9 17 24 10 14
Xyzal 19 (10) (5) 10 >100 >100 13 >100 >100 13 >100 >100
Zyrtec 18 (11) (5) 16 (7) 7 16 – – 26 33 44
Anti-virals 82 (19) (16) 77 (11) (5) 87 1 5 88 (33) (28)
Hepsera 18 6 6 16 (13) – 17 (11) (11) 15 (18) (6)
Relenza 2 (82) (88) 2 (50) – 12 >100 >100 9 (82) (82)
Valtrex 49 (4) – 46 (11) (2) 43 (11) (9) 50 12 22
Zeffix 13 (19) (19) 14 – 8 13 (13) (19) 13 – –
Central nervous system 145 (1) 3 130 4 10 131 (3) 2 113 12 19
Imigran/Imitrex 15 (14) 7 11 (8) (8) 11 9 – 12 – 22
Keppra 4 33 33 4 – 33 4 – – 4 100 100
Lamictal 23 50 64 18 64 64 16 25 33 14 30 40
Requip 18 13 13 15 8 25 13 17 8 13 33 44
Seroxat/Paxil 79 (17) (12) 72 (4) – 76 (8) (4) 66 – 10
Treximet – – – – – – – – – – – –
Wellbutrin 1 – – – – (100) 3 (75) (25) 1 – –
Cardiovascular and urogenital 101 24 28 86 30 37 84 36 38 75 33 44
Arixtra 4 (25) – 5 – 25 5 – 25 3 33 –
Avodart 46 34 44 39 90 95 36 >100 >100 32 71 82
Coreg 1 – – (1) – <100 1 – – – – –
Fraxiparine 1 (100) (50) 1 (80) (80) 1 (75) (75) – – –
Lovaza – – – – – – 1 – – 1 – –
Vesicare (1) – – 1 – – – – – – – –
Volibris 9 >100 >100 6 – – 4 >100 >100 4 >100 >100
Metabolic 38 (13) (5) 35 (25) (20) 33 (34) (34) 32 (40) (36)
Avandia products 3 (60) (70) 5 (73) (67) 6 (72) (76) 5 (83) (78)
Bonviva/Boniva 5 – 25 4 33 33 4 100 100 3 – –
Anti-bacterials 45 10 10 43 (9) (7) 44 2 5 42 (5) (5 )
Augmentin 22 5 5 20 (22) (13) 19 – – 21 28 22
Oncology and emesis 24 (8) (4) 26 47 53 26 33 44 20 43 43
Arzerra 1 – – – – – 1 (100) – (1) – –
Hycamtin 1 (50) (50) 2 >100 100 2 (50) – 1 (100) –
Promacta 6 – – 5 – – 3 – – 2 – –
Tyverb/Tykerb 9 – – 9 – 13 8 (11) (11) 8 29 29
Votrient – – – – – – 1 – – – – –
Vaccines 162 (6) (4) 296 58 66 139 (46) (45) 185 (51) (48)
Boostrix 6 (17) – 4 – – 11 100 >100 7 >100 >100
Cervarix 66 82 94 198 >100 >100 43 >100 >100 83 >100 >100
Fluarix, FluLaval 6 (25) (25) 17 6 – 2 >100 >100 5 – 25
Flu pandemic 6 (87) (87) (1) <(100) <100 – – – – – (100)
Hepatitis 23 9 5 18 12 6 22 (10) 10 21 (13) (8)
Infanrix, Pediarix 22 (10) 5 23 28 28 17 6 6 18 (15) (10)
Rotarix 15 >100 >100 10 29 43 6 >100 >100 8 – –
Synflorix 7 – 40 5 (14) (29) 7 (40) (30) 3 (57) (57)
Dermatologicals 48 (8) (4) 48 – 2 47 (18) (16) 52 11 18
Bactroban 3 – – 4 (25) – 4 50 100 3 – (25)
Dermovate 7 33 17 8 – 33 7 – – 6 40 40
Duac 3 33 – 4 (40) (20) 4 (33) (33) 3 – –
Soriatane 1 – – – – – – – – – – –
Zovirax 12 – – 9 (18) (18) 10 (23) (23) 12 10 20
Other 89 (9) (1) 72 11 18 94 33 31 62 (1) 7
1,074 (2) 2 1,089 15 27 972 (7) (5) 1,006 (13) (7)
ViiV Healthcare (HIV) 38 11 6 34 (6) – 34 (18) (13) 30 (3) –
Combivir 4 (63) (50) 6 – 50 4 (29) (43) 5 – –
Epivir 4 – 33 2 (50) (50) 3 33 – 3 (50) (25)
Epzicom/Kivexa 22 31 38 17 (12) – 16 14 14 17 7 13
Lexiva 1 (50) (75) 3 100 >100 1 (67) (67) 2 (33) (33)
Selzentry 6 >100 >100 1 (100) (50) 2 >100 >100 1 100 –
Trizivir 1 – (50) 1 (100) – – – – 2 100 100
Pharmaceutical turnover includes co-promotion income.231 GSK Annual Report 2011
Consumer Healthcare turnover
Q4 2011 Q3 2011 Q2 2011 Q1 2011
£m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Over-the-counter medicines 625 (2) (3) 606 – 1 581 – (2) 641 3 4
Oral healthcare 420 4 2 446 10 12 425 5 4 426 12 12
Nutritional healthcare 223 12 6 277 9 7 271 12 8 254 9 9
1,268 3 – 1,329 5 6 1,277 4 2 1,321 7 7
Q4 2011 Q3 2011 Q2 2011 Q1 2011
£m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
USA 259 (6) (7) 256 5 3 236 (2) (10) 241 1 (2)
Europe 475 (4) (6) 490 (3) – 490 (3) (1) 475 2 1
Rest of World 534 14 10 583 13 12 551 15 12 605 15 18
1,268 3 – 1,329 5 6 1,277 4 2 1,321 7 7232 GSK Annual Report 2011
Shareholder Five year record
information
A record of financial performance is provided, analysed in accordance with current reporting practice. The information included in the
Five year record is prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union and also with IFRS as issued by the International
Accounting Standards Board.
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
Turnover by division £m £m £m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals excluding vaccines 18,695 19,059 19,993 17,842 17,170
Vaccines 3,497 4,326 3,706 2,539 1,993
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 22,192 23,385 23,699 20,381 19,163
Consumer Healthcare 5,195 5,007 4,669 3,971 3,553
27,387 28,392 28,368 24,352 22,716
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
Group turnover by geographic region £m £m £m £m £m
USA 8,687 9,345 10,315 9,746 10,185
Europe 8,271 9,091 9,696 8,262 7,119
Emerging Markets 5,323 5,023 4,078 3,113 2,557
Asia Pacific 1,793 1,614 1,418 1,201 1,093
Japan 2,318 2,155 1,782 1,127 941
Other 995 1,164 1,079 903 821
27,387 28,392 28,368 24,352 22,716
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
Group turnover by segment £m £m £m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines
USA 7,035 7,648 8,578 8,254 8.619
Europe 5,767 6,546 7,087 5,847 4,954
Emerging Markets 3,680 3,561 2,905 2,177 1,790
Asia Pacific 1,244 1,143 1,018 854 801
Japan 2,082 1,959 1,605 995 843
ViiV Healthcare (HIV) 1,569 1,566 1,605 1,513 1,442
Other trading and unallocated pharma 815 962 901 741 714
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 22,192 23,385 23,699 20,381 19,163
Consumer Healthcare 5,195 5,007 4,669 3,971 3,553
27,387 28,392 28,368 24,352 22,716
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines turnover by therapeutic area £m £m £m £m £m
Respiratory 7,298 7,238 6,977 5,817 5,032
Anti-virals 807 1,086 2,416 1,584 1,478
Central nervous system 1,721 1,753 1,870 2,897 3,348
Cardiovascular and urogenital 2,740 2,570 2,298 1,847 1,554
Metabolic 362 678 1,181 1,191 1,508
Anti-bacterials 1,390 1,396 1,457 1,301 1,213
Oncology and emesis 693 688 629 496 477
Vaccines 3,497 4,326 3,706 2,539 1,993
Dermatology 1,087 1,087 707 414 375
ViiV Healthcare (HIV) 1,569 1,566 1,605 1,513 1,442
Other 1,028 997 853 782 743
22,192 23,385 23,699 20,381 19,163
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
Consumer Healthcare turnover £m £m £m £m £m
OTC medicines 2,453 2,458 2,339 1,935 1,788
Oral healthcare 1,717 1,596 1,479 1,240 1,049
Nutritional healthcare 1,025 953 851 796 716
5,195 5,007 4,669 3,971 3,553233 GSK Annual Report 2011
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
Financial results – total £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 27,387 28,392 28,368 24,352 22,716
Operating profit 7,807 3,783 8,425 7,141 7,593
Profit before taxation 7,698 3,157 7,891 6,659 7,452
Profit after taxation 5,458 1,853 5,669 4,712 5,310
pence pence pence pence pence
Basic earnings per share 104.6 32.1 109.1 88.6 94.4
Diluted earnings per share 103.2 31.9 108.2 88.1 93.7
2011 2010 2009
Financial results – before major restructuring £m £m £m
Turnover 27,387 28,392 28,368
Operating profit 8,397 5,128 9,257
Profit before taxation 8,290 4,505 8,726
Profit after taxation 5,936 2,961 6,283
pence pence pence
Adjusted earnings per share 114.1 53.9 121.2
Adjusted diluted earnings per share 112.5 53.5 120.3
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
millions millions millions millions millions
Weighted average number of shares in issue:
Basic 5,028 5,085 5,069 5,195 5,524
Diluted 5,099 5,128 5,108 5,226 5,567
% % % % %
Return on capital employed 82.9% 30.8 82.8 73.1 76.2
Return on capital employed is calculated as total profit before taxation as a percentage of average net assets over the year.
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
Balance sheet £m £m £m £m £m
Non-current assets 24,913 26,194 25,292 22,124 17,377
Current assets 16,167 16,036 17,570 17,269 13,626
Total assets 41,080 42,230 42,862 39,393 31,003
Current liabilities (15,010) (12,794) (12,118) (10,017) (10,345)
Non-current liabilities (17,243) (19,691) (20,002) (21,058) (10,748)
Total liabilities (32,253) (32,485) (32,120) (31,075) (21,093)
Net assets 8,827 9,745 10,742 8,318 9,910
Shareholders’ equity 8,032 8,887 10,005 7,931 9,603
Non-controlling interests 795 858 737 387 307
Total equity 8,827 9,745 10,742 8,318 9,910234 GSK Annual Report 2011
Shareholder Five year record continued
information
Number of employees
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
USA 16,707 17,555 22,594 21,176 24,838
Europe 38,696 39,910 42,048 44,677 46,869
Emerging Markets 29,466 26,905 23,949 22,229 20,810
Asia Pacific 7,039 6,524 5,850 5,385 5,120
Japan 3,573 3,461 3,264 3,174 3,284
Other 1,908 2,106 2,208 2,362 2,562
97,389 96,461 99,913 99,003 103,483
Manufacturing 30,664 30,611 31,162 32,622 33,995
Selling 45,155 43,918 44,621 42,430 44,499
Administration 8,883 8,850 9,405 8,787 8,960
Research and development 12,687 13,082 14,725 15,164 16,029
97,389 96,461 99,913 99,003 103,483
The geographic distribution of employees in the table above is based on the location of GSK’s subsidiary companies. The number of
employees is the number of permanent employed staff at the end of the financial period. It excludes those employees who are
employed and managed by GSK on a contract basis.
Exchange rates
As a guide to holders of ADS, the following tables set out, for the periods indicated, information on the exchange rate of US dollars
for Sterling as reported by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (‘noon buying rate’)*.
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
Average 1.60 1.55 1.56 1.85 2.00
The average rate for the year is calculated as the average of the noon buying rates for each day of the year.
Mar Feb Jan Dec Nov Oct Sep
2012 2012 2012 2011 2011 2011 2011
High 1.60 1.60 1.58 1.57 1.61 1.61 1.62
Low 1.59 1.57 1.53 1.54 1.55 1.54 1.53
* O n 31 December 2008, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York ceased publishing noon buying rates. The Bank of England 4pm
buying rates have been used for subsequent calculations.
The 4pm buying rate on 2 March 2012 was £1= US$1.59.235 GSK Annual Report 2011
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines product development pipeline
Key
† In-license or other alliance relationship with third party MAA Marketing Authorisation Application (Europe)
S Month of first submission NDA New Drug Application (USA)
A Month of first regulatory approval (for MAA, this is the first EU PO Month of EU positive opinion
approval letter) Phase I Evaluation of clinical pharmacology, usually conducted in volunteers
CR Month Complete Response Letter received – indicates Phase II Determination of dose and initial evaluation of efficacy, conducted in a
that ultimately approval may be given subject to resolution of small number of patients
outstanding queries Phase III Large comparative study (compound versus placebo and/or established
BLA Biological License Application treatment) in patients to establish clinical benefit and safety
MAA and NDA/BLA regulatory review milestones shown in the table below are those that have been achieved. Future filing dates are not included in this list.
Achieved Regulatory
review milestones
Compound Type Indication Phase MAA NDA/BLA
Biopharmaceuticals
1070806 IL18 monoclonal antibody type 2 diabetes & inflammatory bowel disease I
1223249 neurite outgrowth inhibitor (NOGO-A) amyotrophic lateral sclerosis & multiple sclerosis I
monoclonal antibody
1995057 tumour necrosis factor receptor-1 (TNFR1) acute lung injury I
domain antibody
2374697 glucagon like peptide-1 (GLP 1) agonist with obesity I
half-life improving domain antibody
2586881† recombinant human angiotensin converting acute lung injury I
enzyme 2
2661380 (AMP-244)† immunomodulator solid tumours I
otelixizumab† CD3 monoclonal antibody (s.c. & i.v.) rheumatoid arthritis I
249320 myelin-associated glycoprotein monoclonal stroke II
antibody
933776 beta amyloid monoclonal antibody geographic retinal atrophy II
albiglutide† GLP 1 agonist heart failure II
mepolizumab IL5 monoclonal antibody severe asthma & nasal polyposis II
ofatumumab† CD20 human monoclonal antibody (s.c.) multiple sclerosis II
ofatumumab† CD20 human monoclonal antibody (s.c.) rheumatoid arthritis II
sirukumab† IL6 human monoclonal antibody (s.c.) rheumatoid arthritis II
albiglutide† GLP 1 agonist type 2 diabetes III
Arzerra (ofatumumab)† CD20 human monoclonal antibody chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, first line therapy & use III
in relapsed patients
Arzerra (ofatumumab)† CD20 human monoclonal antibody diffuse large B cell lymphoma (relapsed patients) III
Arzerra (ofatumumab)† CD20 human monoclonal antibody follicular lymphoma (refractory & relapsed patients) III
Benlysta (belimumab)† B lymphocyte stimulator monoclonal systemic lupus erythematosus III
antibody (s.c.)
Benlysta (belimumab)† B lymphocyte stimulator monoclonal systemic lupus erythematosus Approved A: Jul11 A: Mar11
antibody (i.v.)
Xgeva (denosumab)† receptor activator for nuclear kappa (RANK) bone metastatic disease Approved N/A N/A
ligand human monocional antibody
Cardiovascular & Metabolic
1614235† sodium dependent glucose transport (SGLT1) type 2 diabetes I
inhibitor
2330672 ileal bile acid transfer inhibitor type 2 diabetes I
256073 high affinity nicotinic acid receptor (HM74A) metabolic disorders II
agonist
962040 motilin receptor agonist delayed gastric emptying II
1278863 prolyl hydroxylase inhibitor peripheral arterial disease II
1278863 prolyl hydroxylase inhibitor anaemia associated with chronic renal disease II
losmapimod p38 kinase inhibitor acute coronary syndrome (also COPD) II
retosiban oxytocin antagonist threatened pre-term labour II
ronacaleret† calcium receptor antagonist allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell mobilisation II
darapladib† Lp-PLA2 inhibitor atherosclerosis (also diabetic macular oedema) III
Immuno-inflammation
705498 transient receptor potential vanilloid (TRPV1) pruritis I
antagonist (topical)
2586184† signalling inhibitor systemic lupus erythematosus I
1399686 anti-inflammatory macrolide conjugate (oral) inflammatory bowel disease II
2245840 SIRT1 activator psoriasis II
2941266 (CCX354)† CCR1 chemokine receptor antagonist rheumatoid arthritis II
1605786† CCR9 chemokine receptor antagonist Crohn's disease III236 GSK Annual Report 2011
Shareholder Pipeline continued
information
Achieved Regulatory
review milestones
Compound Type Indication Phase MAA NDA/BLA
Infectious Diseases
2140944 type 2 topoisomerase inhibitor bacterial infections I
2251052† leucyl t-RNA synthetase inhibitor (oral) bacterial infections I
1322322 polypeptide deformylase inhibitor bacterial infections II
2251052† leucyl t-RNA synthetase inhibitor (i.v.) bacterial infections II
2336805 hepatitis C virus inhibitor hepatitis C II
tafenoquine† 8-aminoquinoline Plasmodium vivax malaria II
Relenza i.v. (zanamivir)† neuraminidase inhibitor (i.v.) influenza III
Neurosciences
356278 phoshodiesterase 4 inhibitor Huntington's Disease I
649868† orexin antagonist sleep disorders II
742457 5HT6 antagonist dementia II
firategrast† dual alpha 4 integrin antagonist (VLA4) multiple sclerosis II
rilapladib† Lp-PLA2 inhibitor Alzheimer’s disease II
587124 (IPX066)† dopamine precursor + DOPA decarboxylase Parkinson's disease III N/A
inhibitor
Horizant (gabapentin voltage-gated calcium channel modulator post-herpetic neuralgia Submitted N/A S: Aug11
enacarbil)†
Horizant (gabapentin voltage-gated calcium channel modulator restless legs syndrome Approved N/A A: Apr11
enacarbil)†
Trobalt/Potiga neuronal potassium channel opener epilepsy, partial seizures Approved A: Mar11 A: Jun11
(retigabine/ezogabine)†
Oncology
2110183 AKT protein kinase inhibitor cancer I
2256098 focal adhesion kinase inhibitor cancer I
2636771 phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) inhibitor cancer I
trametinib (1120212)† + mitogen-activated protein kinase inhibitor cancer I
BKM120 (MEK1/2) + PI3K inhibitor
vestipitant neurokinin-1 antagonist (i.v.) post operative nausea & vomiting I
2110183 AKT protein kinase inhibitor Langerhan cell histiocytosis II
dabrafenib (2118436) BRaf protein kinase inhibitor non-small cell lung cancer II
foretinib† mesenchymal-epithelial transition factor papillary renal cell carcinoma and other cancers II
(C-met) kinase inhibitor
Revolade/Promacta thrombopoietin receptor agonist haeme-oncology-related thrombocytopaenia II
(eltrombopag)†
trametinib (1120212)† MEK1/2 inhibitor KRAS mutant non-small cell lung cancer, second line II
therapy
trametinib (1120212)† MEK1/2 inhibitor pancreatic cancer, first line therapy II
trametinib (1120212)† + MEK1/2 inhibitor + AKT protein kinase cancer II
2110183 inhibitor
trametinib (1120212)† + MEK1/2 inhibitor + BRaf protein kinase metastatic melanoma II
dabrafenib (2118436) inhibitor
dabrafenib (2118436) BRaf protein kinase inhibitor metastatic melanoma III
trametinib (1120212)† MEK1/2 inhibitor metastatic melanoma III
Revolade/Promacta thrombopoietin receptor agonist hepatitis C induced thrombocytopaenia III
(eltrombopag)†
Tyverb/Tykerb (lapatinib) human epidermal growth factor receptor-2 breast cancer, adjuvant therapy III
(Her2) and epidermal growth factor
receptor (EGFR) dual kinase inhibitor
Tyverb/Tykerb (lapatinib) Her2 and EGFR dual kinase inhibitor gastric cancer III
Tyverb/Tykerb (lapatinib) Her2 and EGFR dual kinase inhibitor head & neck squamous cell carcinoma (resectable disease) III
Votrient (pazopanib) multi-kinase angiogenesis inhibitor ovarian cancer, maintenance therapy III
Votrient (pazopanib) multi-kinase angiogenesis inhibitor renal cell cancer, adjuvant therapy III
Tyverb/Tykerb (lapatinib) Her2 and EGFR dual kinase inhibitor metastatic breast cancer, in combination with trastuzumab Submitted S: Feb12 S: Feb12
Votrient (pazopanib) multi-kinase angiogenesis inhibitor sarcoma Submitted S: Jul11 S: Jun11
Ophthalmology
darapladib† Lp-PLA2 inhibitor diabetic macular oedema (also atheroscierosis) II
pazopanib multi-kinase angiogenesis inhibitor age-related macular degeneration (also cancer II
(eye drops) indications)237 GSK Annual Report 2011
Achieved Regulatory
review milestones
Compound Type Indication Phase MAA NDA/BLA
Respiratory
1325756 CXCR2 chemokine receptor antagonist COPD I
1440115 urotensin antagonist asthma I
2245035 toll-like receptor 7 agonist asthma I
2269557 phosphoinositide 3 kinase inhibitor asthma I
2339345 sodium channel blocker cough I
961081† muscarinic antagonist, beta2 agonist COPD II
2190915† 5-lipoxygenase-activating protein (FLAP) asthma II
inhibitor
dilmapimod (681323) p38 kinase inhibitor (i.v.) acute lung injury & acute respiratory distress syndrome II
losmapimod p38 kinase inhibitor (oral) COPD (also cardiovascular disease) II
573719 muscarinic acetylcholine antagonist COPD III
573719 + vilanterol† muscarinic acetylcholine antagonist + long- COPD III
acting beta2 agonist
685698 glucocorticoid agonist asthma III
vilanterol† long-acting beta2 agonist COPD III
Relovair long-acting beta2 agonist + glucocorticoid asthma III
(vilanterol† + 685698) agonist
Relovair long-acting beta2 agonist + glucocorticoid COPD III
(vilanterol† + 685698) agonist
Paediatric Vaccines
Malaria NG Pf improved† recombinant malaria prophylaxis (Plasmodium falciparum) I
MMR live attenuated measles, mumps, rubella prophylaxis II (US) A: Nov97
S. pneumoniae paediatric recombinant - conjugated Streptococcus pneumoniae disease prophylaxis II
next generation
Mosquirix (Malaria RTS,S) recombinant malaria prophylaxis (Plasmodium falciparum) III N/A
MenHibrix (Hib-MenCY-TT)conjugated Neisseria meningitis groups C & Y & Haemophilus influenzae Submitted N/A CR: Sep11
type b disease prophylaxis
Nimenrix (MenACWY-TT) conjugated Neisseria meningitis groups A, C, W & Y disease prophylaxis Submitted PO: Feb12
(II, US)
Other Vaccines
Flu pandemic† cell-culture based H5N1 vaccine pandemic influenza prophylaxis I
Staphylococcus Aureus recombinant – conjugated Staphylococcus aureus prophylaxis I
HIV recombinant HIV disease prophylaxis I
HIV recombinant HIV disease immunotherapy II
Tuberculosis recombinant tuberculosis prophylaxis II
Zoster recombinant Herpes Zoster prevention III
Flu (pre-) pandemic H5N1 inactivated split – monovalent (Quebec) pre-pandemic & pandemic influenza prophylaxis Submitted N/A S:Jun09
(Canada)
Flu vaccine inactivated split – quadrivalent seasonal influenza prophylaxis Submitted S: Feb12
Pumarix H5N1 inactivated split – monovalent (Quebec) pandemic influenza prophylaxis Approved A: Mar11 N/A
Antigen Specific Cancer Immunotherapeutic (ASCI)
NY-ESO-1 recombinant treatment of metastatic melanoma I
PRAME recombinant treatment of metastatic melanoma I
PRAME recombinant treatment of resectable non-small cell lung cancer I
WT1 recombinant treatment of breast cancer I
WT1 recombinant treatment of acute myelogenous leukaemia II
MAGE-A3 recombinant treatment of bladder cancer II
MAGE-A3 recombinant treatment of melanoma III
MAGE-A3 recombinant treatment of non-small cell lung cancer III238 GSK Annual Report 2011
Shareholder Pipeline continued
information
Achieved Regulatory
review milestones
Compound Type Indication Phase MAA NDA/BLA
Rare Diseases
2402968† antisense oligonucleotide Duchenne muscular dystrophy III
2696273† ex-vivo stem cell gene therapy adenosine deaminase severe combined immune deficiency III
(ADA-SCID)
migalastat HCl† pharmacological chaperone Fabry disease III
Stiefel (late-stage assets only)
870086 novel glucocorticoid agonist (topical) atopic dermatitis II
Duac low dose clindamycin/benzoyl peroxide gel acne vulgaris Submitted S: Nov11 S: Nov10
Sorilux vitamin D3 analog scalp psoriasis Submitted S: Nov11
(calcipotriene foam)
tazarotene foam retinoid foam acne vulgaris Submitted S: Jul11
HIV (ViiV Healthcare)
S/GSK1265744† HIV integrase inhibitor (long-acting parenteral HIV infections I
formulation)
lersivirine (UK-453061) non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor HIV infections II
dolutegravir HIV integrase inhibitor HIV infections III
(S/GSK1349572)†
dolutegravir HIV integrase inhibitor + reverse transcriptase HIV infections III
(S/GSK1349572)† + inhibitors (fixed dose combination)
abacavir sulphate +
lamivudine
Brand names appearing in italics are trademarks either owned by and/or licensed to GlaxoSmithKline or associated companies.
Option-based alliances with third parties that include assets in Phase I or later development:
Company Disease Area Phase
Cancer Research UK cancer I
ChemoCentryx inflammatory disease II*
Concert Pharmaceuticals HIV I
Dynavax Technologies cutaneous & systemic lupus erythematosus II
ISIS Pharmaceuticals transthyretin-mediated amyloidosis I
OncoMed Pharmaceuticals oncology I
Prosensa Therapeutics neuroscience II
Ranbaxy Laboratories respiratory II
Telethon Institute for Gene Therapy stem cell gene therapy II**
Affiris Alzheimer’s disease treatment vaccine II
Nabi nicotine vaccine III
* CCX168
** Two assets239 GSK Annual Report 2011
Pharmaceutical products, competition and intellectual property
Major Patent expiry dates
Products Compounds Indication(s) competitor brands USA EU
Respiratory
Veramyst fluticasone propionate rhinitis/COPD Nasacort 2021 2023
Flixotide/Flovent fluticasone propionate asthma/COPD Qvar, Singulair expired expired
(compound) (compound)
2016 expired
(Diskus device) (Diskus device)
2013-2025 2012-2017
(HFA-device/ (HFA-device/
formulation) formulation)
Seretide/Advair* salmeterol xinafoat/ asthma/COPD Singulair, Symbicort, expired 20131
fluticasone propionate Spiriva, Asmanex, (combination) (combination)
Pulmicort, Foster 2016 expired
(Diskus device) (Diskus device)
2013-2025 2012-2017
(HFA-device/ (HFA-device/
formulation) formulation)
Serevent salmeterol xinafoate asthma/COPD Foradil, Spiriva expired expired
(compound) (compound)
2016 expired
(Diskus device) (Diskus device)
NA 2012-2019
(HFA-device/
formulation)
Ventolin HFA albuterol sulphate asthma/COPD generic companies 2015-2025 2012-2017
(HFA-device/ (HFA-device/
formulation) formulation)
Anti-virals
Relenza zanamivir influenza Tamiflu 2013 2014
Valtrex valaciclovir genital herpes, coldsores, Famvir expired expired
shingles
Zeffix/Epivir-HBV lamivudine chronic hepatitis B Hepsera 2014 expired
(use) (use)
Central nervous system
Lamictal lamotrigine epilepsy, bipolar disorder Keppra, Dilantin expired expired
Imigran/Imitrex sumatriptan migraine Zomig, Maxalt, Relpax expired expired
Requip XL ropinirole Parkinson’s disease Mirapex 2012† expired
(formulation)
Seroxat/Paxil paroxetine depression, various Effexor, Cymbalta, expired expired
anxiety disorders Lexapro
Treximet sumatriptan and naproxen migraine Zomig, Maxalt, 2017 NA
Relpax (combination
and use)
Wellbutrin bupropion depression Effexor, Cymbalta, expired expired
Lexapro
Cardiovascular and urogenital
Arixtra fondaparinux deep vein thrombosis, Lovenox, Fragmin expired expired
pulmonary embolism Innohep
Avodart dutasteride benign prostatic hyperplasia Proscar, Flomax, 20151 2017
finasteride
Benlysta belimumab systemic lupus erychematosus 2023 2021
Coreg CR carvedilol phosphate mild-to-severe heart failure, Toprol XL 2016† NA
hypertension, left ventricular (formulation)
dysfunction post MI
Fraxiparine nadroparin deep vein thrombosis, Lovenox, Fragmin expired expired
pulmonary embolism Innohep
* See Outlook on page 15 for details of uncertainty on the timing of follow-on competition. † Generic competition possible in 2012.
† Generic competition possible in 2012.240 GSK Annual Report 2011
Shareholder Pharmaceutical products, competition and intellectual property
information
Major Patent expiry dates
Products Compounds Indication(s) competitor brands USA EU
Lovaza omega-3 acid ethyl esters very high triglycerides Tricor 20171 NA
(formulation)
Volibris ambrisentan pulmonary hypertension Tracleer, Revatio NA 2020
Anti-bacterials
Augmentin amoxicillin/clavulanate common bacterial generic products NA expired
potassium infections
Oncology
Arzerra ofatumumab refractory chronic MabThera/Rituxan pending 2023
lymphocytic leukaemia
Hycamtin topotecan ovarian cancer, small cell Doxil, Gemzar expired expired
lung cancer, cervical cancer
Promacta/ eltrombopag idiopathic thrombocytopenic Nplate 2021 2021
Revolade purpura
Tykerb/Tyverb lapatanib advanced and metastatic Herceptin 2020 2023
breast cancer in HER2
positive patients
Votrient pazopanib metastatic renal cell carcinoma Sutent, Nexavar, 2021 2021
Afinitor
Vaccines
Boostrix diphtheria, tetanus, acellular booster vaccination Adacel 2017 2017
pertussis
Infanrix/Pediarix diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, Pentacel, Pediacel, 2017 2014
polio, hepatitis B (HepB), polio, hepatitis B (HepB) Pentaxim, Pentavac
inactivated antigens
Cervarix HPV 16 & 18 virus like particles human papilloma virus Gardasil (Silgard) 2020 2020
(VLPs), AS04 adjuvant (MPL + type 16 & 18
aluminium hydroxide)
Fluarix split inactivated influenza virus seasonal influenza Vaxigrip, Mutagrip, 2022 2022
subtypes A and type B antigens Fluzone, Influvac,
Aggripal, Fluad
FluLaval split inactivated influenza virus seasonal influenza Vaxigrip, Mutagrip, none none
subtypes A and type B antigens Fluzone, Influvac,
Aggripal, Fluad
Pandemrix derived split inactivated A(H1N1)v2009 influenza Focetria, Celvapan, 2014 2014
influenza virus antigen, prophylaxis emerflu
AS03 adjuvant
Prepandrix derived split inactivated influenza prophylaxis Aflunov 2014 2014
influenza virus antigen,
AS03 adjuvant
Synflorix conjugated pneumococcal invasive pneumococcal Prevenar (Prevnar) NA 2021
polysaccharide disease
HIV
Combivir lamivudine and zidovudine HIV/AIDS Truvada, Atripla 20122 2013
(combination) (combination)
Epivir lamivudine HIV/AIDS Truvada, Atripla expired expired
Epzicom/Kivexa lamivudine and abacavir HIV/AIDS Truvada, Atripla 20161 2019
(combination) (combination)
Lexiva fosamprenavir HIV/AIDS Prezista, Kaletra, 2017 2019
Reyataz
Selzentry maraviroc HIV/AIDS Isentress, Intelence, 2021 2022
Prezista
Trizivir lamivudine, zidovudine HIV/AIDS Truvada, Atripla 20161 2016
and abacavir (combination) (combination)
1 See Note 44 to the financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’.
2 Generic competition began 27 December 2011.241 GSK Annual Report 2011
Consumer Healthcare products, competition and intellectual property
Brand Products Application Markets Competition
Oral healthcare
Sensodyne toothpastes, toothbrushes prevention of dental global Colgate-Palmolive’s
mouthwashes sensitivity Colgate Pro Relief
Polident denture adhesive, denture improve comfort of global none globally
Poligrip cleanser fitted dentures and to
Corega clean dentures
Aquafresh toothpastes, toothbrushes prevention of caries, gum global Colgate-Palmolive’s Colgate,
disease and bad breath Procter & Gamble’s Crest
OTC medicines
Panadol tablets, capulets, infant drops paracetamol-based treatment global, except USA Reckitt-Benckiser’s Nurofen
of headache and joint pain,
fever, cold symptoms
NicoDerm, gum, patch, mini lozenge, treatment of nicotine global Novartis’ Nicotinell,
NiQuitin CQ, original lozenge withdrawal as an aid to Nicorette in Europe,
and Nicabate. quitting smoking retailers’ own brands
Also Nicorette
(USA only)
Nutritional healthcare
Lucozade energy and sports drinks energy and hydration UK, Ireland, some Pepsico’s Gatorade,
other markets Coca-Cola’s Powerade,
Red Bull
Horlicks malted, milk-based drinks nutrition UK, Ireland, India Kraft’s Bournvita,
and foods Nestle’s Milo242 GSK Annual Report 2011
Shareholder Share price and dividends
information
The shares of the company are listed on the London Stock Exchange Dividends per ADS
and on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) in the form of American
The table below sets out the dividends per ADS in US dollars for
Depositary Shares (ADS). For details of listed debt and where it is
the last five years, translated into US dollars at applicable
listed refer to Note 32 to the financial statements, ‘Net debt’.
exchange rates.
Share price
Year Dividend US$
2011 2010 2009 2011 2.25
£ £ £
2011 Supplemental* 0.16
At 1 January 12.40 13.20 12.85
2010 2.04
At 31 December 14.72 12.40 13.20
2009 1.93
Increase/(decrease) 18.7% (6.1%) 2.7%
2008 2.01
High during the year 14.74 13.40 13.34
2007 2.14
Low during the year 11.28 10.95 9.87
* The supplemental dividend relates to the disposal of certain non-core
The table above sets out the middle market closing prices. The
OTC brands in North America. This will be paid with the fourth quarter
company’s share price increased by 18.7% in 2011. This compares
ordinary dividend.
with a decrease in the FTSE 100 index of 5.6% during the year.
The share price on 2 March 2012 was £13.89. Dividend calendar
£ US$
Quarter Ex-dividend date Record date Payment date
15 60
Q4 2011 15 February 2012 17 February 2012 12 April 2012
14 55
Supplemental 15 February 2012 17 February 2012 12 April 2012
13 50 Q1 2012 9 May 2012 11 May 2012 5 July 2012
12 45 Q2 2012 8 August 2012 10 August 2012 4 October 2012
11 40 Q3 2012 14 November 2012 16 November 2012 3 January 2013
10 35
Financial reporting calendar
9 30
8 25 Publication Date
01/01/09 31/12/09 31/12/10 31/12/11 Results announcements
UK share price US ADS price (US$) Quarter 1 April 2012
Quarter 2 July 2012
Market capitalisation
Quarter 3 October 2012
The market capitalisation, based on shares in issue excluding Preliminary/Quarter 4 February 2013
Treasury shares, of GSK at 31 December 2011 was £74 billion. Annual Report/Summary February/March 2013
At that date, GSK was the fifth largest company by market
capitalisation in the FTSE index. Results announcements
Dividends Results announcements are issued to the London Stock Exchange
and are available on its news service. They are also sent to the
GSK pays dividends quarterly. It continues to increase cash
US Securities and Exchange Commission, the NYSE, issued to the
returns to shareholders through its dividend policy and ongoing
media and made available on our website.
long-term share buy-back programme. Dividends remain an
essential component of total shareholder return and GSK is Financial reports
committed to increasing its dividend over the long-term. Details
GSK publishes an Annual Report and, for the shareholder
of the dividends declared, the amounts and the payment dates
not needing the full detail of the Annual Report, a Summary. These
are given in Note 16 to the financial statements, ‘Dividends’.
documents are available on the website from the date of
Dividends per share publication. The Summary is sent to all shareholders. Shareholders
may elect to receive the Annual Report by contacting the registrars.
The table below sets out the dividends per share for the last five
Alternatively, shareholders may elect to receive notification by
years.
email of the publication of financial reports by registering on
www.shareview.co.uk.
Year Dividend pence
2011 70 Copies of previous financial reports are available on GSK’s
2011 Supplemental* 5 website. Printed copies can be obtained from the registrars in
2010 65 the UK and from the GSK Response Center in the USA, (see
2009 61 page 244 for the contact details).
2008 57
2007 53
* The supplemental dividend relates to the disposal of certain non-core
OTC brands in North America. This will be paid with the fourth quarter
ordinary dividend.243 GSK Annual Report 2011
Corporate Responsibility Report Taxation
We will publish our Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 online General information concerning the UK and US tax effects of
in March 2012. This will outline GSK’s approach and share ownership is set out on pages 245 to 246 ‘Taxation
performance on corporate responsibility areas, including access information for shareholders’.
to healthcare, research and business ethics, environmental
Internet
sustainability and community investment.
Information about the company, including details of the share
Nature of trading market
price, is available on our website at www.gsk.com. Information
The following tables set out, for the periods indicated, the high made available on the website does not constitute part of this
and low middle market closing quotations in pence for the shares Annual Report.
on the London Stock Exchange, and the high and low closing
Annual General Meeting 2012
prices in US dollars for the ADS on the NYSE.
3 May 2012
Pence per share
The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre
Ordinary Shares High Low Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE
Quarter ended 31 March 2012* 1497 1387
February 2012 1440 1387 The AGM is the company’s principal forum for communication
January 2012 1497 1410 with private shareholders. In addition to the formal business,
December 2011 1474 1400 there will be a presentation by the CEO on the performance of
November 2011 1406 1329 the Group and its future development. There will be an
October 2011 1401 1312 opportunity for questions to be asked to the Board. Chairmen of
September 2011 1349 1265 the Board’s Committees will take questions relating to those
Quarter ended 31 December 2011 1474 1312 Committees.
Quarter ended 30 September 2011 1385 1205
Investors holding shares through a nominee service should arrange
Quarter ended 30 June 2011 1349 1201
with that nominee service to be appointed as a proxy in respect of
Quarter ended 31 March 2011 1270 1128
their shareholding in order to attend and vote at the meeting.
Quarter ended 31 December 2010 1319 1212
Quarter ended 30 September 2010 1290 1095 ADR holders wishing to attend the meeting must obtain a proxy
Quarter ended 30 June 2010 1281 1119 from The Bank of New York Mellon. This will enable them to
Quarter ended 31 March 2010 1340 1196 attend and vote on the business to be transacted. ADR holders
Year ended 31 December 2009 1334 987 may instruct The Bank of New York Mellon as to the way in which
Year ended 31 December 2008 1385 995 the shares represented by their ADR should be voted by
Year ended 31 December 2007 1493 1160 completing and returning the voting card provided by the bank.
Documents on display
US dollars per ADS
ADS High Low The Articles of Association of the company and other documents
Quarter ended 31 March 2012* 46.35 43.73 referred to in this Annual Report are available for inspection at
February 2012 45.43 44.26 the company’s registered office and on our website.
January 2012 46.35 43.73 Exchange controls and other limitations affecting
December 2011 45.74 43.91
security holders
November 2011 45.06 41.50
October 2011 45.00 40.53 Other than certain economic sanctions which may be in place
September 2011 42.61 40.31 from time to time, there are currently no UK laws, decrees or
Quarter ended 31 December 2011 45.74 40.53 regulations restricting the import or export of capital or affecting
Quarter ended 30 September 2011 44.91 38.84 the remittance of dividends or other payments to holders of the
Quarter ended 30 June 2011 43.74 38.78 company’s shares who are non-residents of the UK. Similarly,
Quarter ended 31 March 2011 39.86 36.33 other than certain economic sanctions which may be in force
Quarter ended 31 December 2010 41.86 38.28 from time to time, there are no limitations relating only to
Quarter ended 30 September 2010 40.47 33.78 non-residents of the UK under English law or the company’s
Quarter ended 30 June 2010 39.57 32.34 Articles of Association on the right to be a holder of, and to vote
Quarter ended 31 March 2010 42.97 37.03 in respect of, the company’s shares.
Year ended 31 December 2009 42.91 27.27 Duplicate publications
Year ended 31 December 2008 54.36 32.02
Year ended 31 December 2007 59.35 47.87 Please contact our registrars if you receive duplicate copies of this,
or any other, GSK publication.
* to 2 March 2012.244 GSK Annual Report 2011
Shareholder Investor relations and registrars
information
Investor relations Share scam alert
Investor relations may be contacted as follows: If you receive an unsolicited phone call offering to sell or buy your
shares, please take extra care. The caller may be part of a highly
UK
organised financial scam.
980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex TW8 9GS
If you are a UK shareholder, please contact the Financial Services
Tel: +44 (0)20 8047 5000
Authority for further information on this, or other similar
USA activities, on its consumer helpline:
One Franklin Plaza, PO Box 7929, Philadelphia PA 19101 Tel: 0845 606 1234 (in the UK)
Tel: 1 888 825 5249 (US toll free)
Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham
Tel: +1 215 751 4000 (outside the USA)
Corporate PEPs
Registrars
The Share Centre Limited
The company’s registrars are: Oxford House, Oxford Road, Aylesbury, Bucks HP21 8SZ
Equiniti Limited Tel: +44 (0)1296 414 141
Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA ADR programme administrator
www.shareview.co.uk
The ADR programme is administered by:
Tel: 0871 384 2991 (in the UK)*
The Bank of New York Mellon
Tel: +44 (0)121 415 7067 (outside the UK)
PO Box 358516
UK lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday.
Pittsburgh, PA 15252-8516
* (excluding UK Public Holidays)
www.bnymellon.com/shareowner
Equiniti also provides the following services:
Tel: 1 877 353 1154 (US toll free)
• Shareview service, which enables shareholders to create a free Tel: +1 201 680 6825 (outside the USA)
online portfolio to get balance details and movements, update email: shrrelations@bnymellon.com
address and dividend payment instructions and register votes
The administrators also provide Global BuyDIRECT, a direct ADS
to be cast at the AGM (www.shareview.co.uk).
purchase/sale and dividend reinvestment plan for ADR holders.
• Investment Account and Individual Savings Account (ISA).
• GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Sponsored Nominee. GSK Response Center
• Share dealing service. Tel: 1 888 825 5249 (US toll free)
• Dividend Reinvestment Plan.
The provision of the details above is not intended to be an
Share dealing service invitation or inducement to engage in an investment activity.
Advice on share dealing should be obtained from a stockbroker
Shareholders may trade shares, either held as certificates or in
or independent financial adviser.
our Corporate Sponsored Nominee, by internet or telephone
through Shareview Dealing, a share dealing service provided by
Equiniti Financial Services Limited.
For internet transactions please log on to www.shareview.co.uk/
dealing, or for telephone transactions, please call:
Tel: 0845 603 7037 (in the UK)
Tel: +44 (0)121 415 7560 (outside the UK)
For the Investment Account and ISA services please log on to
www.shareview.co.uk/dealing, or for telephone transactions,
please call:
Tel: 0845 300 0430 (in the UK)
Tel: +44 (0)121 415 0105 (outside the UK)
UK lines are open from 8.00am to 6.00pm, Monday to Friday.
Please note that market trading hours are from 8.00am to 4.30pm.245 GSK Annual Report 2011
Number of % of total % of total Number of
Analysis of shareholdings at 31 December 2011
accounts accounts shares shares
Holding of shares
Up to 1,000 105,821 71.11 0.70 38,641,339
1,001 to 5,000 34,049 22.88 1.32 73,065,071
5,001 to 100,000 7,757 5.21 2.04 113,315,677
100,001 to 1,000,000 809 0.54 5.25 291,563,408
Over 1,000,000 385 0.26 90.69 5,033,617,603
148,821 100 100 5,550,203,098
Held by
Nominee companies 24,199 16.26 73.27 4,066,694,374
Investment and trust companies 47 0.03 0.05 2,926,619
Insurance companies 9 0.01 0.00 5,944
Individuals and other corporate bodies 124,564 83.70 3.74 207,492,773
BNY (Nominees) Limited 1 0.00 13.91 771,925,461
Held as Treasury shares by GlaxoSmithKline 1 0.00 9.03 501,157,927
148,821 100 100 5,550,203,098
The Bank of New York Mellon’s holding held through BNY (Nominees) Limited represents the company’s ADR programme, whereby each ADS
represents two Ordinary Shares of 25p nominal value. At 2 March 2012, BNY (Nominees) Limited held 780,893,463 Ordinary Shares representing
15.47% of the issued share capital excluding Treasury shares held at that date.
At 2 March 2012, the number of holders of shares in the USA was 30,167 with holdings of 390,164,361 shares, and the number of registered holders
of ADS was 30,636 with holdings of 390,446,731 ADS. Certain of these shares and ADS were held by brokers or other nominees. As a result, the
number of holders of record or registered holders in the USA is not representative of the number of beneficial holders or of the residence of beneficial
holders.
Taxation information for shareholders Taxation of capital gains
UK shareholders may be liable for UK tax on gains on the disposal
A summary of certain UK tax and US federal income tax
of shares or ADR. For disposals by individuals and subject to the
consequences for holders of shares and ADR who are citizens of
availability of any exemption or relief such as the annual exempt
the UK or the USA is set out below. It is not a complete analysis of
amount, a taxable capital gain accruing on a disposal of shares or
all the possible tax consequences of the purchase, ownership or
ADR will be taxed at 28% if, after all allowable deductions, such
sale of these securities. It is intended only as a general guide.
shareholder’s taxable income for the tax year exceeds the basic rate
Holders are advised to consult their advisers with respect to the tax
income tax limit. In other cases, a taxable capital gain accruing on a
consequences of the purchase, ownership or sale of their shares or
disposal of shares or ADR may be taxed at 18% or 28% or at a
ADR and the consequences under state and local tax laws in the
combination of both rates. Corporation taxpayers may be entitled to
USA and the implications of the current UK/US tax conventions.
an indexation allowance which applies to reduce capital gains to the
US holders of ADR generally will be treated as the owners of the extent that such gains arise due to inflation. Indexation allowance
underlying shares for the purposes of the current USA/UK double may reduce a chargeable gain but will not create an allowable loss.
taxation conventions relating to income and gains (Income Tax
Inheritance tax
Convention), estate and gift taxes (Estate and Gift Tax Convention),
and for purposes of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as Individual shareholders may be liable to inheritance tax on the
amended (the Code). transfer of shares or ADR. Tax may be charged on the amount by
which the value of the shareholder’s estate is reduced as a result
UK shareholders
of any transfer by way of gift or other disposal at less than full
This summary only applies to a UK resident shareholder that holds market value. If such a gift or other disposal were subject to both
shares as capital assets. UK inheritance tax and US estate or gift tax, the Estate and Gift
Tax Convention would generally provide for tax paid in the USA
Taxation of dividends
to be credited against tax payable in the UK.
UK resident shareholders will generally be subject to UK income
Stamp duty
tax on the full amount of dividends paid, grossed up for the
amount of a tax credit. The tax credit may be set against the UK stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax (SDRT) will, subject to
individual’s income tax liability in respect of the gross dividend, but certain exemptions, be payable on the transfer of shares at a rate
is not repayable to shareholders with a tax liability of less than the of 0.5% of the consideration for the transfer.
associated tax credit. For the tax year 2010-11 and subsequent tax
years, an additional rate of income tax on dividends is imposed for
taxpayers whose income is above £150,000. UK resident
shareholders that are corporation taxpayers should note that
dividends are generally entitled to exemption from corporation tax.246 GSK Annual Report 2011
Shareholder Taxation information for shareholders
information
US shareholders Estate and gift taxes
This summary only applies to a shareholder (a citizen or resident of Under the Estate and Gift Tax Convention, a US shareholder is
the USA or a domestic corporation or a person that is otherwise not generally subject to UK inheritance tax.
subject to US federal income tax on a net income basis in respect
Stamp duty
of the shares or ADR) that holds shares or ADR as capital assets, is
not resident in the UK for UK tax purposes and does not hold UK stamp duty or SDRT will, subject to certain exemptions,
shares for the purposes of a trade, profession or vocation that is be payable on any issue or transfer of shares to the ADR
carried on in the UK through a branch or agency. custodian or depository at a rate of 1.5% of their price (if issued),
the amount of any consideration provided (if transferred on sale),
The summary also does not address the tax treatment of holders
or their value (if transferred for no consideration).
that are subject to special tax rules, such as banks, tax-exempt
entities, insurance companies, dealers in securities or currencies, No SDRT would be payable on the transfer of, or agreement to
persons that hold shares or ADR as part of an integrated transfer an ADR. No UK stamp duty should be payable on the
investment (including a ‘straddle’) comprised of a share or ADR transfer of an ADR provided that any instrument of transfer is
and one or more other positions, and persons that own (directly or executed and remains at all times outside the UK. Any stamp duty
indirectly) 10% or more of the voting stock of GSK. on the transfer of an ADR would be payable at a rate of 0.5% of the
consideration for the transfer. Any sale of the underlying shares
Taxation of dividends
would, subject to certain exceptions, result in liability to UK stamp
The gross amount of dividends received is treated as foreign source duty or, as the case may be, SDRT at a rate of 0.5%.
dividend income for US tax purposes. It is not eligible for the
dividend received deduction allowed to US corporations. Dividends
on ADR are payable in US dollars; dividends on shares are payable
in Sterling. Dividends paid in pounds Sterling will be included in
income in the US dollar amount calculated by reference to the
exchange rate on the day the dividends are received by the holder.
Subject to certain exceptions for short-term or hedged positions, an
individual eligible US holder will be subject to US taxation at a
maximum rate of 15% in respect of qualified dividends received
before 2013.
Taxation of capital gains
Generally, US holders will not be subject to UK capital gains tax,
but will be subject to US tax on capital gains realised on the sale
or other disposal of shares or ADR. Such gains will be long-term
capital gains (subject to reduced rates of taxation for individual
holders) if the shares or ADR were held for more than one year.
Information reporting and backup withholding
Dividends and payments of the proceeds on a sale of shares or
ADR, paid within the USA or through certain US-related financial
intermediaries are subject to information reporting and may be
subject to backup withholding unless the US holder is a
corporation or other exempt recipient or provides a taxpayer
identification number and certifies that no loss of exemption has
occurred. Non-US holders generally are not subject to information
reporting or backup withholding, but may be required to provide a
certification of their non-US status in connection with payments
received. Any amounts withheld will be allowed as a refund or
credit against a holder’s US federal income tax liability provided the
required information is furnished to the IRS.247 GSK Annual Report 2011
Glossary of terms
Terms used in the Annual Report US equivalent or brief description
Accelerated capital allowances Tax allowance in excess of depreciation arising from the purchase of fixed assets that delay
the charging and payment of tax. The US equivalent of tax depreciation.
American Depositary Receipt (ADR) Receipt evidencing title to an ADS. Each GlaxoSmithKline ADR represents two
Ordinary Shares.
American Depositary Shares (ADS) Listed on the New York Stock Exchange; represents two Ordinary Shares.
Basic earnings per share Basic income per share.
Called-up share capital Ordinary Shares, issued and fully paid.
CER growth Growth at constant exchange rates.
The company GlaxoSmithKline plc.
Currency swap An exchange of two currencies, coupled with a subsequent re-exchange of those currencies,
at agreed exchange rates and dates.
Defined benefit plan Pension plan with specific employee benefits, often called ‘final salary scheme’.
Defined contribution plan Pension plan with specific contributions and a level of pension dependent upon the growth
of the pension fund.
Derivative financial instrument A financial instrument that derives its value from the price or rate of some underlying item.
Diluted earnings per share Diluted income per share.
Employee Share Ownership Plan Trusts Trusts established by the Group to satisfy share-based employee incentive plans.
Finance lease Capital lease.
Freehold Ownership with absolute rights in perpetuity.
Gearing ratio Net debt as a percentage of total equity.
The Group GlaxoSmithKline plc and its subsidiary undertakings.
Hedging The reduction of risk, normally in relation to foreign currency or interest rate movements,
by making off-setting commitments.
Intangible fixed assets Assets without physical substance, such as computer software, brands, licences, patents,
know-how and marketing rights purchased from outside parties.
Profit Income.
Profit attributable to shareholders Net income.
Share capital Ordinary Shares, capital stock or common stock issued and fully paid.
Shareholders’ funds Shareholders’ equity.
Share option Stock option.
Share premium account Additional paid-up capital or paid-in surplus (not distributable).
Shares in issue The number of shares outstanding.
Subsidiary An entity in which GlaxoSmithKline holds a majority shareholding and/or exercises control.
Treasury share Treasury stock.
Turnover Revenue.
UK Corporate Governance Code Guidelines required by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority to address the
principal aspects of Corporate Governance.248 GSK Annual Report 2011
Shareholder Index
information
Page Page
Accounting principles and policies 142 Inventories 168
Acquisitions and disposals 186 Investments in associates and joint ventures 167
Adjustments reconciling profit after tax to operating Investor relations 244
cash flows 184 Key accounting judgements and estimates 147
Annual General Meeting 94,243 Key performance indicators 08
Assets held for sale 169 Late-stage pipeline summary 36
Associates and joint ventures 157 Legal proceedings 208
Board 78 Long-Term incentive plans 126
Business review 01 Major restructuring programme 153
Cash and cash equivalents 169 Movements in equity 182
Chairman’s statement 10 Net debt 179
Chief Executive’s review 11 New accounting requirements 148
Commitment to access 05 Non-Executive Director terms and conditions 122
Commitments 191 Non-Executive Directors’ fees 125
Committee reports 97 Notes to the financial statements 141
Competition 15 Operating profit 155
Consolidated balance sheet 138 Other intangible assets 165
Consolidated cash flow statement 140 Other investments 168
Consolidated income statement 136 Other non-current assets 168
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 139 Other non-current liabilities 179
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 136 Other operating income 155
Contingent liabilities 179 Other provisions 177
Corporate Executive Team 80 Outlook 15
Corporate governance 82 Pensions and other post-employment benefits 170
Critical accounting policies 59 Post balance sheet events 191
Directors and Senior Management 133 Presentation of the financial statements 141
Directors’ emoluments and total remuneration 124 Principal Group companies 205
Directors’ interests 126 Product development pipeline 235
Directors’ interests in contracts 133 Products 239
Directors’ statement of responsibilities 134,216 Property, plant and equipment 161
Dividends 161 Quarterly trend 222
Donations to political organisations and Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt 185
political expenditure 96 Registrars 244
Earnings per share 160 Related party transactions 184
Employee costs 156 Relations with shareholders 94
Employee share schemes 201 Remuneration Report 106
Employees 46 Research and development 30
Exchange rates 148 Responsible business 44
Executive Director terms and conditions 121 Risk factors 72
Finance costs 157 Segment information 149
Finance income 156 Segment reviews 18
Financial instruments and related disclosures 192 Share capital and control 95
Financial position and resources 60 Share capital and share premium account 181
Financial review 51 Share price 242
Financial review 2010 67 Shareholder information 222
Financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc, prepared Strategy 16
under UK GAAP 216 Taxation 158
Five year record 232 Taxation information for shareholders 245
Foreign exchange risk management 66,193 Trade and other payables 170
Global Manufacturing and Supply 41 Trade and other receivables 169
Glossary of terms 247 Trademarks 15
Goodwill 163 Treasury operations 66
Governance and policy 84 UK Corporate Governance Code 82
Independent Auditors’ report 135,217 US law and regulation 104
Intellectual property 15 World market 13
Interest rate risk management 66,192249 GSK Annual Report 2011
Official Laboratory Services Provider
About GSK
We have a challenging and inspiring
mission to improve the quality of human
life by enabling people to do more, feel
better and live longer.
GlaxoSmithKline plc was incorporated
as an English public limited company
on December 6, 1999. We were formed
as a merger between Glaxo Wellcome
plc and SmithKline Beecham plc. GSK
acquired these two English companies on
27 December 2000 as part of the merger
arrangements.
Our shares are listed on the London
Stock Exchange and the New York Stock
Exchange.
+
This page
Our scientists work in small, entrepreneurial teams focused on specific diseases or areas of
science. (George Brooks)
CEO Sir Andrew Witty hears from patients visiting a hospital in Uganda. (Tom Whipps)
GSK is the Official Laboratory Services Provider for the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic
Games. Our outreach programme Scientists in Sport aims to inspire young people into
science by demonstrating the role that science plays in The Games. (David Tett)
Over 15,000 children in seven African countries are taking part in the trial to evaluate our
candidate malaria vaccine. (John Michael Maas)
Back cover
In the UK we employ more than 300 university students on one-year placements to give
them experience in the workplace. Many of our students also support our community
programmes. (George Brooks)
In September 2011 Lucozade started a five-year partnership with Vodafone McLaren
Mercedes Formula 1. (LAT Photographic/Steven Tee)www.gsk.com
Here you will find down-loadable PDFs of:
• Annual Report
• Corporate Responsibility Report
Head Office and Registered Office
GlaxoSmithKline plc
980 Great West Road
Brentford, Middlesex TW8 9GS
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)20 8047 5000
Registered number: 3888792
+
Printed on Amadeus 100 Offset, a 100% recycled paper with full FSC certification. All pulps used are made
from 100% de-inked, post-consumer waste and are Elemental Chlorine Free (ECF). The manufacturing mill
holds the ISO 14001 and EU Eco-label certificates for environmental management. The mill has zero landfill
and extremely low carbon emissions, leading the WWF to approve its papers as the most environmentally
sustainable of uncoated recycled paper.