Annual Report
2019Contents We are a science-led
Strategic report global healthcare company
Our business model 01
Chairman’s statement 03
CEO’s statement 04
Financial performance 06
Our long-term priorities 09 Our purpose
Our culture 10 To improve the quality of human life by helping people do more, feel better,
Key performance indicators 11
live longer.
Industry trends 12
Stakeholder engagement 15 Our goal
Pharmaceuticals 17
To become one of the world’s most innovative, best-performing and trusted
Vaccines 23
healthcare companies.
Consumer Healthcare 27
Trust 30 Our strategy
Risk management 43
To bring differentiated, high-quality and needed healthcare products
Group financial review 49
to as many people as possible, with our three global businesses, scientific
Corporate Governance and technical know-how and talented people.
Chairman’s Governance statement 76 Our long-term priorities
Our Board 78
Our priorities are underpinned by our ambition to build a more performance-
Our Corporate Executive Team 82
focused culture, aligned to our values and expectations.
Responsible leadership 84
Division of responsibilities 90 Innovation
Composition, succession We invest in scientific and technical excellence to develop and launch
and evaluation 92 a pipeline of new products that meet the needs of patients, payers
Nominations Committee report 92
and consumers.
Audit, risk and internal control 96
Audit & Risk Committee report 96 Performance
Science Committee report 107 We deliver growth-based performance by investing effectively in our
Corporate Responsibility business, developing our people and executing competitively.
Committee report 109 Trust
Section 172 statement 111
We are a responsible company and commit to use our science and
Directors' report 113
technology to address health needs, make our products affordable
Remuneration report and available and to be a modern employer.
Chairman’s annual statement 116 Our values and expectations
Annual report on remuneration 119
Our values – patient focus, transparency, respect and integrity.
2020 Remuneration policy summary 140
Our expectations – courage, accountability, development and teamwork.
2020 Remuneration policy report 141
Financial statements
Directors’ statement of
responsibilities 152
Independent Auditor’s report 154
Financial statements 166
Notes to the financial statements 170
Financial statements of
GlaxoSmithKline plc prepared
under UK GAAP 252
Investor information
Cautionary statement
Quarterly trend 258 See the inside back cover of this document for the cautionary statement regarding
Five-year record 263 forward-looking statements.
Product development pipeline 269
Products, competition and Non-IFRS measures
intellectual property 272 We use a number of adjusted, non-IFRS, measures to report the performance of our business.
Principal risks and uncertainties 275 Total reported results represent the Group's overall performance under IFRS. Adjusted results,
pro-forma growth rates and other non-IFRS measures may be considered in addition to, but not
Share capital and share price 288
as a substitute for or superior to, information presented in accordance with IFRS. Adjusted results
Dividends 290
and other non-IFRS measures are defined on pages 50 to 52 and reconciliations to the nearest
Financial calendar 291
IFRS measures are on pages 62 and 65.
Annual General Meeting 2020 291
We believe that Adjusted results, when considered together with Total results, provide investors,
Tax information for shareholders 292
analysts and other stakeholders with helpful complementary information to understand better
Shareholder services and contacts 294
the financial performance and position of the Group from period to period, and allow the Group's
US law and regulation 296 performance to be more easily compared against the majority of its peer companies. These
Group companies 299 measures are also used by management for planning and reporting purposes. They may not
Glossary of terms 311 be directly comparable with similarly described measures used by other companies.Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Our business model
We have three global businesses that discover, develop and
manufacture innovative medicines, vaccines and consumer healthcare
products. Every day, we help improve the health of millions of people
around the world.
Our operations span the value chain from identifying, Our ability to launch new products successfully and
researching, developing and testing ground-breaking grow sales from our existing portfolio is key to our
discoveries, to regulatory approval, manufacturing and commercial success. For patients and consumers
commercialisation. we deliver transformational medicines, vaccines and
consumer healthcare products. In 2019 that included
We have over 99,000 employees across 95 countries
2.3 billion packs of medicines, 701 million vaccine
with outstanding scientific and technical know-how and
doses and 4.2 billion consumer healthcare products.
deep expertise in regulation, intellectual property and
commercialisation. We also work with world-leading As part of our capital allocation framework we invest
experts and form strategic partnerships to complement in our three businesses and provide returns to
our existing capabilities. shareholders in the form of dividends and share value
growth. In 2019 we paid a dividend of 80p per share
Innovation is critical to how we improve health and create
and delivered £5.1 billion of free cash flow.
financial value. As a research-based healthcare company
we rely on intellectual property protection to help ensure We make a positive contribution to the communities
a reasonable return on our investments so we can in which we operate by creating employment, working
continue to research and develop new and innovative with suppliers and paying tax. We offer a broad range
medicines. In 2019 we invested £4.6 billion in R&D. of employee benefits, including preventative healthcare
In Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines we focus on science services, so that we are able to attract and retain the
related to the immune system, human genetics and best people. By delivering on our purpose, the greatest
advanced technology. In Consumer Healthcare we contribution we make is to improve the health of people
leverage our scientific expertise and deep consumer around the world with our medicines, vaccines and
insights to create healthcare products that meet consumer healthcare products.
consumer demands.
Pharmaceuticals Vaccines Consumer Healthcare
Our Pharmaceuticals business has We are the world’s largest vaccines Our world-leading Consumer Healthcare
a broad portfolio of innovative and company by revenue, delivering vaccines business combines science and
established medicines in respiratory, that protect people at all stages of life. consumer insights to create innovative
HIV, immuno-inflammation and oncology. Our R&D focuses on developing everyday healthcare brands that
We are strengthening our R&D pipeline vaccines against infectious diseases consumers trust and experts recommend.
through a focus on immunology, human that combine high medical need and In 2019, we finalised an agreement with
genetics and advanced technologies strong market potential. Pfizer to combine our two consumer
to help us identify transformational healthcare businesses.
new medicines for patients.
Read more on page 17 Read more on page 23 Read more on page 27
Turnover £m Turnover £m Turnover £m
Respiratory 3,081
HIV 4,854 Meningitis 1,018 Wellness 4,526
Immuno-inflammation 613 Shingles 1,810 Oral health 2,673
Oncology 230 Influenza 541 Nutrition 1,176
Established Pharmaceuticals 8,776 Established Vaccines 3,788 Skin health 620
Total 17,554 Total 7,157 Total 8,995
GSK Annual Report 2019 01Our business model continued
Preparing for the future
Investing in R&D and new products The new programme will use the unique catalyst of separation
In order to be successful, we are increasing investment in R&D to reset the capabilities and cost base for both companies,
and new products to deliver future growth. Since announcing and help support delivery of the significant value creation
our new approach to R&D in 2018, we have made significant opportunities we see in both New GSK and new Consumer
progress to strengthen our pipeline, particularly in oncology. Healthcare.
We now have 39 medicines and 15 vaccines in the pipeline,
For New GSK, we see a clear opportunity to drive a common
and in 2019 we had three major approvals, eight regulatory
approach to R&D as science related to the immune system
submissions, six positive read-outs from pivotal studies and
converges across both pharmaceuticals and vaccines. This
we progressed four new assets into pivotal studies.
will enable us to be even more effective in how we allocate
During 2019 we also completed transactions with Tesaro our budget, share technical and scientific expertise and deliver
and with Merck KGaA, further strengthening our position our pipeline, regardless of modality.
in oncology, and initiated alliances to build out our platform
Under the programme, we will also seek to improve our
technologies, in genomics with the University of California,
capabilities and create efficiencies in our global support
and in cell therapy with Lyell Immunopharma.
functions; continue to simplify and focus our manufacturing
The positive clinical data we are generating and the progress network, ensuring our supply chain is ready to launch our
we have made to strengthen the pipeline underpins our decision new speciality medicines, and rationalise our portfolio
to further increase investment in R&D over the next two years. through divestments.
Creating two new companies For the new Consumer Healthcare company, this programme
In early 2020, consistent with our strategic priorities and will support the building of key technology infrastructure and
previous announcements, we started a two-year programme the expertise necessary to operate as a standalone company.
to prepare GSK for separation into two new leading companies:
We believe that increased investment in our pipeline and new
New GSK, a biopharma company, with an R&D approach
products, together with effective implementation of our new
focused on science related to the immune system, use of
two-year programme, will set each new company up with
genetics and new technologies; and a new Consumer
strong foundations for future performance. The financial
Healthcare company with category-leading power brands
benefits, costs and reporting associated with the programme
and innovation based on science and consumer insights.
are set out on pages 63 and 64.
Our intention remains to separate around three years from the
close of the transaction that resulted in the formation of our new
Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture, which was in July 2019.
Capital allocation
Capital allocation framework
Key priorities for capital
Invest in the business – R&D pipeline (including business
development)
– Vaccines capacity
Innovation – New products
Improved Shareholder returns – Dividends
Performance cash – Target 1.25x to 1.5x cover before
generation returning dividend to growth
Trust
Other M&A – Strict discipline on returns
02 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Chairman’s statement
I am delighted to introduce my first GSK Annual Report as Chairman.
I am passionate about life sciences having worked in the industry for
many years. It is a sector that I know can make a meaningful difference
to patients and people around the world.
While GSK has a proud history of innovation, it was the Environment, social and governance (ESG)
exciting future ahead that made joining GSK irresistible. With 2019 the first year of required compliance with the
Not only do we have the opportunity to create the world’s revised UK Corporate Governance Code, and with the
leading Consumer Health business but also to create a increased emphasis on the value of ESG factors to overall
biopharma business, founded on today’s leading scientific performance, I have been pleased to find GSK’s purpose,
platforms. The Board and an outstanding management team strategy and priorities well placed to deliver long-term value
led by Emma are determined to achieve this. for society and shareholders. That we will need to do more
and give greater prominence to what we are doing, is clear,
GSK delivered good operating performance in 2019 with
but we start from a good place.
growth in sales and earnings and good cash generation.
Emma and her team are sucessfully focused on strengthening GSK has a strong foundation in global health innovation and
the pipeline and delivering strong commercial execution. this continues to play an important role. Promising data on our
This is evident in the contribution to growth from new candidate TB vaccine and recognition for GSK’s leadership
products in these results. in antimicrobial resistance, a major global health threat is good
demonstration of this. Access and affordability of medicines
Innovation
is a critical issue for the industry and society, and the company
2019 saw good progress on the Group’s priority to strengthen
continues to be focused on making its products affordable and
its pharmaceuticals pipeline, particularly in oncology, with eight
available through responsible pricing and strategic access
filings and four assets moved into pivotal trials. The Board was
programmes and partnerships.
particularly pleased to see positive data came from assets
acquired through the Tesaro transaction. Tackling climate change will require action from everyone and
GSK is committed to playing its part. The company is delivering
The distinctive new approach to R&D, to focus on the
well on reducing its carbon footprint in line with the Paris
immune system, the use of genetics and advanced analytical
Agreement, and is assessing the opportunities and risks
technologies, is also advancing with the formation of
that the transition to a low carbon economy presents.
partnerships including with the University of California,
23andMe and Lyell and the attraction of new talent into Board changes
the organisation. Over the longer term, this new approach We have made progress on searching for Judy Lewent’s
promises to deliver a more productive R&D organisation successor as Chair of the Audit & Risk Committee.
delivering a higher number of differentiated medicines. I am delighted that Judy has agreed to stay for a further year
This is an area the Board Science Committee is working to facilitate a transition before stepping down from the Board
closely with management on. at the 2021 AGM. Whilst I am mindful that the 2018 UK Corporate
Governance Code indicates that Non-Executive Directors should
In my first few months, I have had many conversations with
not serve for more than nine years, I firmly believe that a smooth
shareholders. I am pleased to report strong support for the
transition is in the best interests of the company and shareholders.
strategic direction of the company and for the intention to
separate into two new companies. To successfully deliver As is set out in more detail in the section on Board governance,
this the Group has initiated a new programme to help prepare we have re-evaluated our priorities and the Board committee
for separation. Consequently, we have established a new architecture to be able to support and oversee the creation
Board committee, to work closely with management and of two outstanding new organisations.
provide support and oversight over the next two years.
During the year Sir Philip Hampton stood down from the Board
Capital allocation as anticipated in last year’s Annual Report, and Iain Mackay
The Board supports management’s clear framework for capital became our Chief Financial Officer, replacing Simon Dingemans.
allocation which prioritises investment in the pharmaceuticals I’d like to take this opportunity to thank Philip and Simon for their
pipeline and building vaccine supply capacity. Disciplined service to GSK.
support of business development opportunities is also part
Finally, my thanks go to all of GSK’s employees, partners,
of the framework. Of course, the Board are also mindful of
shareholders and customers for their support and warm welcome.
returns to shareholders and we returned 80p per share in
2019 as expected. Total shareholder return in 2019 was 25%.
Sir Jonathan Symonds
Chairman
GSK Annual Report 2019 03CEO’s statement
I am pleased with the progress we made in 2019 on our three long-term
priorities of Innovation, Performance and Trust. We have strengthened our
pipeline, improved operational execution and further reshaped the Group.
Growth in 2019 sales and earnings We continue to build our capabilities in new platform
Group sales grew 10% at actual exchange rates and 8% technologies, notably with a pioneering new partnership
at constant exchange rates to £33.8 billion. This is a good with the University of California, to establish a state-of-the-art
performance, particularly when considering that 2019 was laboratory for CRISPR gene-editing technologies; and with the
the first year of a generic version of Advair in the US. biotech company, Lyell, for development of new cell therapies.
I am also pleased that our partnership with 23andMe is
New products drove the increase in sales, reflecting their
progressing well. We have now identified eight new targets
innovation and our focus on commercial execution. Shingrix,
to work on together in immunology, oncology, neurology and
our shingles vaccine, had a remarkable year with sales of
cardiovascular disease.
£1.8 billion and is now the most successful biopharma launch
of the last 10 years. The product also received the prestigious Preparing for the future
Prix Galien award for innovation. In Respiratory, we saw strong Delivering innovation is our first priority, and our recent
growth from Trelegy and Nucala, and in HIV, new two-drug data readouts, together with the progress we have made
regimens, Dovato and Juluca, contributed sales of £422 million. to strengthen the pipeline, underpin our decision to further
increase investment in R&D and our new products for
The Total Group operating margin increased 2.8 percentage
long-term growth.
points but the Adjusted operating margin decreased 2.1
percentage points (CER) reflecting our decision to invest At the same time, we continue to focus on operational
in these new products and our priority pipeline programmes. execution, including delivering a successful integration
Total earnings per share were 93.9p, up 27% at actual in Consumer Healthcare following completion of the
exchange rates, 23% CER and Adjusted earnings per share transaction with Pfizer on 31 July 2019.
grew 4% at actual exchange rates, 1% CER to 123.9p.
We are also now preparing for separation of the Group.
We achieved strong cash generation, with free cash flow As previously stated, our intention is to separate around
of £5.1 billion. As expected, we announced a dividend of three years from closing the transaction. We have therefore
80p in 2019 and we expect to do so again in 2020. initiated a two-year programme to prepare two new companies:
New GSK, a Biopharma company with an R&D approach
Landmark year for R&D
focused on science related to the immune system, the use
When I became CEO, I made strengthening our R&D pipeline
of genetics and advanced technologies; and a new Consumer
our first priority. In 2019 we made significant progress. Under
Healthcare company with a world-leading portfolio of brands
the leadership of Dr Hal Barron, our Chief Scientific Officer,
and scale.
we delivered three major approvals, eight regulatory filings
for new medicines, six positive readouts from assets in pivotal Our new programme aims to use the unique catalyst we have
studies and progressed four new assets into pivotal studies, of separation to set competitive capabilities and a cost base
three of which are biologics. for both companies, and help to deliver the significant value
creation for patients, consumers and shareholders.
This progress reflects successful prioritisation and development
of the pipeline in core areas such as HIV and Respiratory, Building Trust
and in fast emerging areas such as Oncology. Here, we were GSK has consistently, and will continue to take action to
particularly pleased to see pivotal data for Zejula, for ovarian make a broader contribution to society in addition to delivery
cancer, and belantamab mafodotin for multiple myeloma. of financial returns. In 2019 we made good progress across
We believe both these assets have the potential to transform all of our Trust commitments, and we are well placed to respond
how patients are treated for these underserved cancer types. to increasing investor interest in environmental, social and
governance (ESG) performance. We were pleased to be ranked
In all, we have 39 medicines and 15 vaccines currently in
the top pharma company in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index
clinical development, and in 2020 we expect at least six
for our sector.
potential product approvals. We also expect a substantial
amount of proof-of-concept data including combination
studies for various immuno-oncology agents and for innovative
vaccines; for respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) and for chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
04 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
CEO's statement continued
Most notable have been several recent initiatives related to Our people and culture
global health and health security. Following the publication We continue to work to develop a more performance-focused
of excellent data for our candidate TB vaccine, in early 2020 culture, with a strong emphasis on ethics and values. Building
we secured a ground-breaking agreement with the new trust internally remains a key priority. Our regular employee
Gates Medical Research Institute, to develop the vaccine survey helps us review our levels of employee engagement
for use in low-income countries. This new alliance reflects and we were pleased to achieve excellent engagement scores
our aim to take a sustainable approach to global health, at all levels of the organisation over the course of last year.
focusing our efforts and expertise on science and research,
We are also pursuing a broad agenda to promote inclusion and
while partnering with others to ensure development and
diversity. In 2019, female representation across the organisation
delivery. We also filed regulatory submissions for a new
increased, particularly at senior management level, and GSK
formulation of our latest HIV medicine, which will expand
was recognised in the Stonewall LGBT+ rights group, as a top
access for use by children in resource poor settings.
global employer.
We were also pleased to see our science and research
The significant progress we made in 2019 is due to the effort,
recognised through GSK’s leadership of the Access to
talent and dedication of GSK people and all those we work
Medicine Foundation’s 2020 antimicrobial resistance
with. I want to thank them for their enormous contribution and
benchmark.
we count on them again in 2020.
In February 2020, to support the global response to the
outbreak caused by coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2), we formed
collaborations with CEPI (Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness
Innovations) and other institutions and companies to make our
vaccine adjuvant technology available for the development of
Emma Walmsley
an effective vaccine against the virus.
Chief Executive Officer
In another area of our Trust agenda, we are working hard to
reduce our environmental impact. Underpinned by five public
targets, our goal is to reduce our impact by one quarter by
2030. In this report we also set out our approach to climate
change risk, including our first voluntary disclosure using
recommendations of the Taskforce for Climate-related
Financial Disclosure (TCFD).
GSK Annual Report 2019 05Financial performance
Total results
2019 2018 Growth
% of % of
£m turnover £m turnover £% CER%
Turnover 33,754 100 30,821 100 10 8
Cost of sales (11,863) (35.1) (10,241) (33.2) 16 16
Gross profit 21,891 64.9 20,580 66.8 6 4
Selling, general and administration (11,402) (33.8) (9,915) (32.2) 15 13
Research and development (4,568) (13.5) (3,893) (12.6) 17 15
Royalty income 351 1.1 299 1.0 17 17
Other operating income/(expense) 689 1.9 (1,588) (5.2)
Operating profit 6,961 20.6 5,483 17.8 27 23
Net finance costs (814) (717)
Profit on disposal of interest in associates – 3
Share of after-tax profits of associates and joint ventures 74 31
Profit before taxation 6,221 4,800 30 25
Taxation (953) (754)
Tax rate 15.3% 15.7%
Profit after taxation 5,268 4,046 30 26
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 623 423
Profit attributable to shareholders 4,645 3,623
Earnings per share 93.9p 73.7p 27 23
How we performed Operating profit
Total operating profit was £6,961 million in 2019 compared
Cost of sales
with £5,483 million in 2018. Reduced remeasurement charges
Total cost of sales as a percentage of turnover was 35.1%,
on the contingent consideration liabilities, no Consumer
1.9 percentage points higher at AER and 2.4 percentage points
Healthcare put option charge, increased profits on disposals
higher in CER terms. This primarily reflected an increase in
and an increase in value of the shares in Hindustan Unilever
the costs of Major restructuring programmes, the unwind of
Limited to be received on the disposal of Horlicks and other
the fair value uplift on inventory arising on completion of the
Consumer Healthcare brands were partly offset by increased
Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture with Pfizer and continued
charges for Major restructuring and significant legal matters.
adverse pricing pressure in Pharmaceuticals, partly offset by
a more favourable product mix in Vaccines. Tax
The charge of £953 million represented an effective tax rate
Selling, general and administration
on Total results of 15.3% (2018 – 15.7%) and reflected the
Total SG&A costs as a percentage of turnover were 33.8%,
different tax effects of the various Adjusting items.
1.6 percentage points higher at AER and 1.6 percentage points
higher at CER. This included increased significant legal charges Non-controlling interests
arising from the settlement of existing matters and provisions The allocation of Total earnings to non-controlling interests
for ongoing litigation, increased investment resulting from the amounted to £623 million (2018 – £423 million). The increase
acquisition of Tesaro and greater promotional product support, was primarily due to an increased allocation of ViiV Healthcare
particularly for new launches. profits.
Research and development Earnings per share
Total R&D expenditure was £4,568 million (13.5% of turnover), Total earnings per share was 93.9p, compared with 73.7p
up 17% AER, 15% CER. This reflected a significant increase in 2018. The increase in earnings per share primarily reflected
in study and clinical trial material investment in Oncology and reduced remeasurement charges on the contingent
increased spending on the progression of key non-Oncology consideration liabilities and put options, an increase in the
assets, partly offset by savings from the early phase portfolio value of the shares in Hindustan Unilever Limited to be received
reprioritisation in late 2018. on the disposal of Horlicks and other Consumer Healthcare
brands, a reduced effective tax rate and an increased share
Other operating income/(expense)
of after-tax profits of associates as a result of a non-recurring
Net other operating income primarily reflected the profit on
income tax benefit in Innoviva.
disposal of rabies and tick-borne encephalitis vaccines and
a number of other asset disposals together with an increase
in value of the shares in Hindustan Unilever Limited to be
received on the disposal of Horlicks and other Consumer
Healthcare brands.
06 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Financial performance continued
Total and Adjusted results
Total reported results represent the Group’s overall performance. GSK is undertaking a number of Board-approved Major
restructuring programmes in response to significant changes
GSK uses a number of Adjusted, non-IFRS, measures to
in the Group’s trading environment or overall strategy, or
report the performance of its business. Adjusted results and
following material acquisitions. Costs, both cash and non-cash,
other non-IFRS measures may be considered in addition to,
of these programmes are provided for as individual elements
but not as a substitute for or superior to, information presented
are approved and meet the accounting recognition criteria.
in accordance with IFRS. See page 50 for a fuller definition.
As a result, charges may be incurred over a number of years
GSK believes that Adjusted results, when considered together following the initiation of a Major restructuring programme.
with Total results, provide investors, analysts and other
The Group has also initiated a two-year Separation Preparation
stakeholders with helpful complementary information to
programme to prepare GSK for separation into two new leading
understand better the financial performance and position
companies in biopharma and consumer healthcare.
of the Group from period to period, and allow the Group’s
performance to be more easily compared against the majority GSK is committed to continuously improving its financial
of its peer companies. These measures are also used by reporting, in line with evolving regulatory requirements and
management for planning and reporting purposes. They may best practice.
not be directly comparable with similarly described measures
GSK's reported results include five months of results of the
used by other companies.
former Pfizer consumer healthcare business from 1 August
GSK encourages investors and analysts not to rely on any 2019. Pro-forma growth rates at CER have been calculated
single financial measure but to review GSK’s Annual Reports, for 2019 including the equivalent five months of results of the
including the financial statements and notes, in their entirety. former Pfizer consumer healthcare business in the comparative
period, as more fully described on page 52.
Divestments,
Intangible Intangible significant
Total asset asset Major Transaction- legal and Adjusted
Adjusting items results amortisation impairment restructuring related other items results
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 33,754 33,754
Cost of sales (11,863) 713 30 658 383 – (10,079)
Gross profit 21,891 713 30 658 383 – 23,675
Selling, general and administration (11,402) 4 332 104 247 (10,715)
Research and development (4,568) 64 49 114 2 (4,339)
Royalty income 351 351
Other operating income/(expense) 689 1 (142) (548) –
Operating profit 6,961 777 83 1,105 345 (299) 8,972
Net finance costs (814) 5 (1) (810)
Share of after-tax profits of associates and joint ventures 74 74
Profit before taxation 6,221 777 83 1,110 345 (300) 8,236
Taxation (953) (156) (17) (208) (124) 140 (1,318)
Tax rate 15.3% 16.0%
Profit after taxation 5,268 621 66 902 221 (160) 6,918
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 623 164 787
Profit attributable to shareholders 4,645 621 66 902 57 (160) 6,131
Earnings per share 93.9p 12.6p 1.3p 18.2p 1.2p (3.3)p 123.9p
Intangible asset amortisation and impairment Transaction-related
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets and goodwill Transaction-related accounting or other adjustments related
excludes computer software. to significant acquisitions.
Major restructuring Divestments, significant legal and other items
Major restructuring costs, which include impairments of tangible Proceeds and costs of disposals of associates, products
assets and computer software (under specific Board-approved and businesses; significant legal charges (net of insurance
programmes that are structural, of a significant scale and where recoveries) and expenses on the settlement of litigation and
the costs of individual or related projects exceed £25 million), government investigations; other operating income other than
including integration costs following material acquisitions. royalty income, and other items.
GSK Annual Report 2019 07Financial performance continued
Adjusted results
2019 2018 Growth
% of % of
£m turnover £m turnover £% CER%
Turnover 33,754 100 30,821 100 10 8
Cost of sales (10,079) (29.9) (9,178) (29.8) 10 10
Gross profit 23,675 70.1 21,643 70.2 9 7
Selling, general and administration (10,715) (31.7) (9,462) (30.7) 13 12
Research and development (4,339) (12.9) (3,735) (12.1) 16 14
Royalty income 351 1.1 299 1.0 17 17
Operating profit 8,972 26.6 8,745 28.4 3 –
Net finance costs (810) (698)
Share of after-tax profits of associates and joint ventures 74 31
Profit before taxation 8,236 8,078 2 (1)
Taxation (1,318) (1,535)
Tax rate 16.0% 19.0%
Profit after taxation 6,918 6,543 6 3
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 787 674
Profit attributable to shareholders 6,131 5,869
Earnings per share 123.9p 119.4p 4 1
How we performed Operating profit
Cost of sales Adjusted operating profit was £8,972 million, 3% higher
Adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of turnover was 29.9%, at AER but flat at CER on a turnover increase of 8% CER.
0.1 percentage points higher at AER and 0.5 percentage points The Adjusted operating margin of 26.6% was 1.8 percentage
higher at CER. On a pro-forma basis, Adjusted cost of sales points lower at AER, and 2.1 percentage points lower on
as a percentage of turnover was 29.9%, 0.3 percentage points a CER basis than in 2018. On a pro-forma basis, Adjusted
higher at CER. This primarily reflected continued adverse operating profit was 3% lower at CER on a turnover increase
pricing pressure in Pharmaceuticals, partly offset by a more of 4% CER. The Adjusted pro-forma operating margin of 26.6%
favourable product mix in Vaccines, largely due to the growth was 1.9 percentage points lower on a CER basis than in 2018.
of Shingrix in the US. The reduction in pro-forma Adjusted operating profit primarily
reflected continuing price pressure and investments in R&D and
Selling, general and administration
promotional product support, partly offset by the benefit from
Adjusted SG&A costs as a percentage of turnover were 31.7%,
sales growth, particularly in Vaccines, a more favourable mix in
1.0 percentage point higher at AER and 1.0 percentage point
Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare and the continued benefit
higher on a CER basis. On a pro-forma basis, Adjusted SG&A
of restructuring.
costs as a percentage of turnover were 31.7%, 0.8 percentage
points higher at CER, compared with 2018. This primarily Tax
reflected increased investment resulting from the acquisition Tax on Adjusted profit amounted to £1,318 million and
of Tesaro and in promotional product support, particularly for represented an effective Adjusted tax rate of 16.0%
new launches in Vaccines, Respiratory and HIV, partly offset (2018 – 19.0%), reflecting the impact of the settlement
by the continuing benefit of restructuring in Pharmaceuticals of a number of open issues with tax authorities.
and the tight control of ongoing costs. Non-controlling interests
Research and development The allocation of Adjusted earnings to non-controlling interests
Adjusted R&D expenditure was £4,339 million (12.9% of amounted to £787 million (2018 – £674 million). The increase
turnover), 16% higher at AER, 14% higher at CER than in 2018. primarily reflected an increased allocation of Consumer
On a pro-forma basis, Adjusted R&D expenditure grew 13%. Healthcare profits.
This reflected a significant increase in study and clinical trial Earnings per share
material investment in Oncology and increased spending
Adjusted EPS of 123.9p compared with 119.4p in 2018,
on the progression of key non-Oncology assets, partly offset
up 4% AER, 1% CER, with Adjusted operating profit flat
by savings from the early phase portfolio reprioritisation in
at CER. The improvement primarily resulted from a reduced
late 2018.
effective tax rate and an increased share of after-tax profits
of associates, partly offset by increased net finance costs
and a higher non-controlling interest allocation of Consumer
Healthcare profits.
08 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Our long-term priorities
Our long-term priorities are designed to create lasting value for patients,
consumers and shareholders. 2019 was an important year of execution
and we made good progress in delivering on our objectives.
Innovation Performance Trust
We invest in scientific and We deliver growth by investing We are a responsible company.
technical excellence to develop effectively in our business, We commit to use our science
and launch a pipeline of new developing our people and and technology to address health
products that meet the needs of executing competitively. needs, make our products
patients, payers and consumers. affordable and available and
be a modern employer.
2019 objectives 2019 objectives 2019 objectives
– Deliver continued strong sales of Trelegy – Continue to drive sales growth and – Focus on supply service levels, execute
Ellipta, Nucala, HIV two-drug regimen operational performance portfolio and network simplification
and Shingrix – Successful integration of Tesaro – Deliver progress on Trust commitments
– Continue to strengthen pipeline through – Deliver restructuring benefits – Progress global health research in TB
execution of new R&D approach, – Develop plan for integration of Pfizer’s and HIV
accelerating priority assets and optimising consumer healthcare business – Deliver modern employer programmes
recent strategic business development – Accelerate capability building in priority to empower employees to be themselves,
transactions areas including digital, data and analytics feel good and keep growing at GSK
2019 progress 2019 progress 2019 progress
– Delivered strong sales of all key launches, – Group sales £33.8 billion, up 10% AER, – Filed FDA and EU regulatory submissions
notably Shingrix with sales of £1.8 billion 8% CER, pro-forma +4% for paediatric dolutegravir
– Strengthened pipeline with eight filings, – Free cash flow £5.1 billion – Released positive final phase II results
six positive pivotal trial results, and four – Total earnings per share 93.9p (up 27% for our candidate TB vaccine and built a
priority assets accelerating to phase II/III AER, 23% CER), Adjusted earnings per collaboration with the Bill & Melinda Gates
– Accelerated oncology pipeline with share 123.9p (up 4% AER, 1% CER) Medical Research Institute for the
regulatory submissions for Zejula in first-line – Successful integration of Tesaro and built continued development of the asset for
maintenance ovarian cancer, belantamab capability in priority areas, notably specialty developing countries – which was finalised
mafodotin in relapsed/refractory multiple therapies, including oncology and announced in January 2020
myeloma, and dostarlimab in endometrial – Continued delivery on restructuring benefits – Continued to embed modern employer
cancer to support investment in innovation and new programmes with progress in engagement,
– Developed advanced technology capability launches diversity and inclusion, employee health
with significant hires and partnerships with – Completed Consumer Healthcare JV with and wellbeing, and development
world-leading scientists Pfizer and on track to deliver synergies – Ranked top in Dow Jones Sustainability
Index for the pharmaceuticals industry
– Invested in new talent to build capability
2020 priority objectives 2020 priority objectives 2020 priority objectives
– Deliver Innovation sales with excellent – Prioritise spending to deliver growth and – Continue to deliver on-time in-full supply
commercial, R&D and supply chain return on investment of our products
execution – Successful Consumer Healthcare JV – Build reputation with a focus on Innovation
– Further accelerate and strengthen pipeline integration, including driving growth and – Deliver progress on Trust commitments
with six potential approvals expected delivering synergies
– Deliver further capability building in
specialty Pharmaceuticals
– Deliver two-year programme to prepare
GSK for separation into two new companies
Culture
We are committed to developing the right culture to drive and maximise performance. We are empowering and enabling everyone at GSK
to live our values and expectations, and changing the way we work to accelerate delivery of our long-term priorities.
Principal risks
Our principal risks are: patient safety; product quality; financial controls and reporting; anti-bribery and corruption; commercial practices;
privacy; research practices; third party oversight; environment, health and safety, and sustainability; information security; and supply continuity.
Our risk management framework is designed to support our long-term priorities. See pages 43 to 46 and 275 to 287.
GSK Annual Report 2019 09Our culture
We are building a more performance-focused culture, aligned to our
values and expectations, that will help us achieve our purpose and
power our long-term priorities.
GSK has a well-established purpose – to help people Enabling culture change
do more, feel better, live longer – together with strong Culture change is a long-term commitment and requires
values of patient focus, respect, transparency and integrity. focus at every level of the company:
We are extremely proud of how our purpose and values lead
– We have made company-wide changes to our incentive
us as a company. However, our operating environment is
schemes, governance and ways of working, including
changing rapidly and our stakeholders have increasing
implementing key performance indicators and standardised
expectations of us.
performance reviews.
We recognise that our culture must have a greater focus on – We continue to strengthen how our values and expectations
performance and growth, while remaining firmly purpose-led are embedded into our recruitment processes, leadership
and values-based. This necessary shift in culture is key to development, employee training and performance evaluation.
delivering our goal of becoming one of the world’s most
– Across the whole company there are two broad themes
innovative, best performing and trusted healthcare companies.
we are focusing on: clearer accountability and better
Our expectations – courage, accountability, development decision-making to drive pace and performance, and an
and teamwork – sit alongside our values to help us develop open, honest and straight-talking culture where our people
the behaviours we need in our desired culture: trust their leaders and feel confident to share their views.
Courage: having high ambitions, setting an accelerated pace, Each of the businesses have set clear objectives to drive
smart risk taking where appropriate, making the right decisions the culture shift needed in their area.
assertively even when it is difficult, and speaking up when – Our leaders and managers should be role models of our
we see opportunities to improve or have a concern. desired culture. This starts with having the right people, and
we have made significant changes to our top 125 leaders,
Accountability: taking ownership, having single point
with 29% new appointments (internal movement and external
of accountability decision making, prioritising work that
hires) in the last year. We have invested significantly in
supports our strategy and delivering what we promise.
building High Performing Teams (HPT), including our
Development: prioritising people's development and Corporate Executive Team, taking part in ongoing HPT
encouraging them to ask for and give open and honest development programmes.
feedback, so we continually grow as individuals, teams
Tracking progress
and as an organisation.
We track our cultural change with a range of indicators and
Teamwork: ensuring our people work better together on the Board receives regular updates. In addition to specific lead
aligned objectives and understand how they contribute to indicators by business area, we measure employee feedback
our long-term priorities, encouraging diversity of thought across the company through our global employee survey.
and inspiring each other; holding each other to account. This focuses on (a) our progress on embedding a culture that
prioritises Innovation, (b) our discipline, competitive edge,
speed and agility to deliver growth orientated Performance,
(c) employee Trust, including pride in our purpose and progress
on our Modern Employer priorities and (d) how well the values
and expectations are embedded into our ways of working.
We also measure progress on key drivers of culture:
(1) strength of talent and succession plans for key roles and
(2) effectiveness of our global people manager population
through our global One80 survey (see page 36). We use our
employee engagement scores as an additional indicator of our
progress in embedding a culture in which our employees are
inspired by our purpose and are working together in the best
way so that we meet our long-term priorities, bring competitive
returns to shareholders, and help more patients and consumers.
10 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Key performance indicators
We track progress against our long-term priorities with ten operating key
performance indicators. These measure our performance at a Group level
and across our three businesses.
Our operating key performance indicators (KPIs) are reviewed We track all of our operating KPIs internally, and below we
regularly by our Corporate Executive Team and the Board. provide performance data for those that we report externally.
Our employees are updated on our progress against them every Due to commercial sensitivities we do not publish data for all
quarter. Our performance system aligns employees’ bonuses operating KPIs (indicated as n/r). We use a number of adjusted,
with a relevant subset of our ten indicators and the remuneration non-International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)
policy used to reward the performance of our executives also measures to report our business performance, as described
includes measures linked to our KPIs (see pages 117, 123 on pages 50 to 52. These include Adjusted results, free cash
and 125). flow and CER growth rates. Non-IFRS measures may be
considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for or superior
to, information presented in line with IFRS.
Innovation
2019 2018 2017
Innovation sales R
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines – sales of products launched in the last five years £3.8bn £1.7bna £0.4bna
Consumer Healthcare – sales from products which are new to a market in the last
three years as a % of total sales 12% 11% 13%
Pipeline value and progress – the value of products in our pipeline and R&D
milestones achieved n/r n/r n/r
Performance
2019 2018 2017
Group turnover R – up 10% AER, 8% CER £33.8bn £30.8bn £30.2bn
Profit R
Total operating profit – up 27% AER, 23% CER £7.0bn £5.5bn £4.1bn
Adjusted operating profit – up 3% AER, flat CER £9.0bn £8.7bn £8.6bn
Total operating margin 20.6% 17.8% 13.5%
Adjusted operating margin 26.6% 28.4% 28.4%
Free cash flow R – down 11% £5.1bn £5.7bn £3.5bnb
Market share – our market share in relation to our competitors n/r n/r n/r
Top talent and succession plans for key roles – our most talented employees
in key roles with succession plans in place n/r n/r n/r
Trust
2019 2018 2017
Employee feedback – employee engagement scores from our global employee survey 78% 78% 79%
Supply service level – percentage of orders delivered on-time and in-full n/r n/r n/r
Corporate reputation – reputation index among stakeholders and informed public
measured globally and in top 13 markets n/r n/r n/r
R Linked to Executive LTI awards and bonus, see pages 117, 123 and 125.
a Comparative information reflects sales of those products that meet the definition for 2019.
b Revised to include proceeds from the sale of intangible assets.
n/r Not reported externally.
GSK Annual Report 2019 11Industry trends
The healthcare industry operates in a rapidly changing environment with
strong growth potential. Our strategy is designed to respond to this context
by maximising opportunities and mitigating risks.
We are operating in a dynamic environment, shaped by fast- Intellectual property (IP) protection is important to continue
changing and interdependent global trends. We continue to to incentivise innovation. This helps research-based healthcare
be responsive to this changing environment through monitoring companies ensure a reasonable return on their investments
industry trends and engaging with key stakeholder groups and allows them to continue to conduct research and develop
(see pages 15 to 16). new and innovative medicines. Once IP protection expires,
or if challenges to a patent are upheld, generic competitors
The global healthcare industry can rapidly capture a large share of the market. Vaccines
and other biologics do not face such exposure to generic
Global growth is projected to rise from an estimated 2.9% in
competition through these ‘patent cliffs’. They require high
2019 to 3.3% in 2020, a downward revision of 0.1% from the
capital investment due to the highly technical manufacturing
previous World Economic Outlook. Rising geopolitical tensions
processes, and complex regulatory and quality requirements.
have increased uncertainty about the future of the global trading
system and international cooperation, taking a toll on business
Global trends: opportunities and challenges
confidence and investment decisions.1
Changing demographics
The global healthcare market continues to grow, with
Demographic change is increasing demand for both preventive
worldwide pharmaceutical sales totalling £801 billion from
and therapeutic healthcare products.
September 2018-2019, up 6.4%. North America remains
the largest pharmaceutical market with a 48% share of global The world’s population continues to grow. From an estimated
sales, with Europe representing 21%. China is the second 7.7 billion people worldwide in 2019, the global population is
largest individual country for pharmaceutical sales, representing predicted to grow to 8.5 billion by 2030.4 Virtually all countries
8.5% of global sales.2 Global vaccine sales rose to are experiencing population ageing, with the proportion of the
approximately £23.8 billion in 2019, up around 15% from world’s population over 60 projected to nearly double between
2018.3 The global consumer healthcare market is estimated 2015 and 2050.5 More people are living in cities and affluence
to be approximately £140 billion.3 is growing, with the size of the global middle class projected to
be approximately 4.9 billion people by 2030, up from 1.8 billion
The healthcare sector remains intensely competitive, with
in 2009.6
companies increasingly pursuing mergers, acquisitions and
partnerships to strengthen pipelines and portfolios. 2019 Our response
saw significant M&A activity in oncology and speciality care, These factors are all contributing to rising demand for healthcare,
together with several company mergers, most notably with including in areas where we are focused such as oncology
Bristol-Myers Squibb acquiring Celgene and AbbVie and respiratory, as well as pressuring healthcare systems
acquiring Allergan. to restrain spending growth. As part of our Innovation priority
we are investing in developing and launching a pipeline of new
products that meet the changing needs of patients, payers
and consumers (see pages 17 to 21 and 23 to 25). We ensure
our products serve a broad demographic through our global
health and pricing strategies (see pages 30 to 34).
1 IMF World Economic Outlook Update
2 IQVIA data
3 Internal data
4 https://population.un.org/wpp/Publications/Files/WPP2019_
Highlights.pdf
5 https://www.who.int/news-room/fact-sheets/detail/ageing-and-health
6 http://oecdobserver.org/news/fullstory.php/aid/3681/An_emerging_
middle_class.html
12 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Industry trends continued
Advances in science and technology In Europe, while the majority of markets have established price
Rapid advances in innovative science and technology are control processes in place, national healthcare authorities are
transforming the sector. Cell therapy technologies, where continually looking to sharpen these tools in response to
cells become living medicines, are changing the definition changing market dynamics. Disparity in both access and supply
and profile of medicine. New advances in functional genomics, availability across EU markets has been a topic of recurrent
such as CRISPR, are changing what is possible in drug debate in recent years. Member states have repeatedly raised
discovery and will enable researchers to pinpoint novel targets serious concerns over the problem of medicines shortages.
with a higher probability of success. The scale of data from They call for transparency of prices, R&D costs and public
genetic libraries and genomics requires artificial intelligence (AI) subsidies, pushing to roll back existing flexibilities with EU
to interpret, and machine learning helps to predict possible new legislation and/or create additional hurdles for market access.
pathways to a medicine. The growth in data is also improving
In Europe and many Emerging Markets, international reference
the healthcare ecosystem and helping to build a virtuous
pricing (IRP) continues to gain traction, with over 70 markets
cycle of data, technology and R&D. Regulators and purchasers
now using this as a primary lever for pricing control.
can use these technologies to track product effectiveness,
Increasingly, countries are also cooperating on health
while consumers relying on digital tools to manage their
technology assessments (HTAs) – the new EU HTA regulation
health and understand their genetic profiles are helping
proposal would centralise the clinical assessments of new
research efforts by building a better understanding of
medicines and medical devices.
genetics and disease.
Beyond Europe many countries are implementing various
Our response
forms of HTA. In China several policies have been proposed
The application of advanced technologies is central to our R&D
to boost the quality, efficiency and value of healthcare delivery
approach, as part of our Innovation priority. We are developing
and HTA implementation is among the key initiatives proposed.
core capabilities in AI, machine learning, functional genomics
Products with high clinical value, particularly those seeking
and cell therapy to accelerate the pace at which we identify
a premium price, will likely be prioritised for HTA review,
and develop novel targets and medicines, including creating
especially in oncology and other critical disease areas.
the Laboratory for Genomics Research, a state-of-the-art lab
While accelerating access to innovation, China is also
to apply CRISPR gene editing technologies to drug discovery.
implementing cost containment measures to balance its
We have made significant investments to help us realise the
healthcare budget. Saudi Arabia is establishing a new,
potential of these cutting-edge technologies and, ultimately,
independent and evidence-based HTA entity to help it
strengthen our pipeline. We are also attracting the best
maximise health gains through efficient use of resources.
scientific minds to work for us and with us, by entering into
Finally, in Japan the pharmaceutical industry remains
ambitious and creative collaborations, such as our partnership
concerned about the proposed use of HTA for pricing
with Lyell Immunopharma, to enhance our cell and gene therapy
control rather than value assessment.
programme and with 23andMe, with which we have eight
ongoing joint programmes (see page 21). Our response
We aim to improve the health of millions of people each year
Pricing and access
by making our products available at responsible prices that are
The pricing of healthcare products and the increasing pressure
sustainable for our business. Getting this right is fundamental
to fund high-cost, innovative therapies continues to attract
to both our Performance and Trust priorities. When setting
significant attention from governments and the public, with
the price of our medicines in developed markets, we apply
calls for better transparency on how prices are set and a
a value-based approach to balance reward for innovation with
greater emphasis on value and health outcome-based pricing.
access and affordability (see page 33). We aim to bring truly
Government and payer budgets remain subject to increasing
differentiated, innovative products that bring highly effective
review as demand for healthcare grows and the healthcare
health outcomes for patients and payers, so that even those
policy environment remains fluid, with payers introducing
products with a high cost will bring value to patients and
increasingly restrictive cost-control mechanisms.
healthcare systems. By investing in genetics, genomics,
In the US, the government has proposed several drug pricing big data and AI we are accelerating the pace at which we
initiatives, including a new ‘international pricing index’, in order develop transformational medicines, prioritising those molecules
to reduce healthcare costs for patients and the government. with a higher probability of success – we know that genetically
While there are still significant potential obstacles to the validated drug candidates are twice as likely to become
implementation of national drug pricing proposals, multiple registered medicines, improving the productivity of our
states have also passed legislation or regulation that increases R&D investment.
oversight, transparency and/or control of pharmaceutical prices.
Organisations that assess the value of pharmaceutical products
relative to price and health outcomes, such as the Institute for
Clinical and Economic Review, are also rising in prominence
in the US.
GSK Annual Report 2019 13Industry trends continued
Regulatory environment Societal expectations
Healthcare is a highly regulated industry, reflecting public Expectations of business are changing. As well as delivering
expectations that products comply to stringent levels of quality, financial returns, companies are expected to create value
safety and efficacy. for a range of stakeholders through taking action on social
and environmental issues. Some are calling for the purpose
Governments continue to introduce and develop regulatory
of business to be redefined, with groups like Business
approaches to support the accelerated development and
Roundtable, a leading business group in the US, saying
introduction of new medicines and to encourage pharmaceutical
a corporation exists to benefit all stakeholders, moving away
innovation. Regulatory authorities are exploring how to progress
from the long-standing endorsement of shareholder primacy.
or adapt regulatory science to address new and potentially
disruptive technologies, such as digital healthcare, cell and In order to attract and retain the best talent companies need
gene therapies, big data and real-world evidence. Work on to rise to the expectations of a workforce that is motivated
cross-border harmonisation of pharmaceutical regulation is by delivering on a greater purpose. Employees who work
increasing through supranational bodies, such as the for a company with a strong sense of purpose, and who feel
International Council for Harmonisation, the geographic scope connected to it, are three times more likely to thrive in what
of which continues to expand, including to emerging markets. they do.1
This work is supporting the introduction and development of
At the same time, investors are increasingly asking companies
initiatives in which regulators from different jurisdictions share
to articulate how they are managing a range of environmental,
or co-operate in the assessment of regulatory submissions,
social and governance (ESG) risks and opportunities. Major
for example the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is
institutional investors are publicly stating that they believe that
providing a framework for concurrent submission and review
ESG factors impact a company’s long-term success and so
of oncology products with international partners.
are important to their investment decisions.
Our response
Companies are expected to contribute to the UN Sustainable
GSK closely monitors and, where relevant and appropriate,
Development Goals (SDGs), especially as we move into the
engages in how we can improve regulation, particularly in the
final decade for their delivery by 2030. There is growing public
UK, Europe and the US. For example, as scientific innovation
demand for companies to play a role in managing climate
moves beyond the scope of current regulation and standards,
change and mitigating climate risk, as well as address other
we are working with the sector to engage with governments
environmental issues such as plastics, air pollution and water
to explore new policies, processes and incentives that would
management. Companies are also under increasing pressure
support the discovery and delivery of medicines developed
to address social issues such as human rights, inclusion and
through emerging technologies and techniques (see page 16).
diversity and fair pay, both in direct operations and throughout
the supply chain.
The pharmaceutical sector in particular has a trust deficit and
remains under sustained scrutiny around sales and marketing
practices and ethics and compliance. It is also facing additional
reputational challenges related to issues like the opioid crisis
in the US, as well as the growing momentum of the anti-vaccine
movement in some regions.
Our response
Our Trust priority is designed to respond to multi-stakeholder
expectations and prioritise the areas where we are positioned
to have significant and sustainable impact. We set 13 public
commitments to support our Trust priority in 2018 and are
making good progress against them (see pages 30 to 42). We
recognise that expectations are moving quickly and that we
need to respond accordingly (see pages 15 to 16).
1 Mercer 2018 Global Talent Trends Study. Input: 800 executives, 1,800 HR
leaders, 5000+ employees, 21 industries, 44 countries
14 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Stakeholder engagement
Engaging and building trust with the broad range of stakeholders that interact
with, or are impacted by, our business is key to delivering our strategy and
ensuring our success over the long term.
Section 172 statement
We have various mechanisms that enable management and the Board to understand and consider stakeholder views as part
of their oversight and decision making. This is explained in our section 172 statement, which is set out in full on page 111, and
is incorporated by reference into this Strategic report. On this page we summarise our key stakeholder groups, how we engage
with them, the issues that matter most to them and what we are doing in response.
Patients and Insights from patients and consumers enable us What matters
consumers to develop products that better meet their needs. – The pricing of healthcare products, particularly out-of-pocket
How we engage expenses
– Advisory boards, disease-specific patient panels – Differentiated product innovation based on patient and
and Patient Advocacy Leaders Summits to provide consumer needs
patient insights – Access to a reliable supply of high-quality, safe products
– Engagement and support for patient groups (disclosed What we are doing
on gsk.com), and initiatives that empower patients – We take a values-based approach to pricing to balance
to get involved in medicine development reward for innovation with access and affordability
– Market research and consumer sensory labs help – Strengthening our pipeline to bring innovative products
to uncover consumer insights to patients and ensure we maintain high standards for
product quality and safety
Investors We maintain regular and constructive dialogue with What matters
investors to communicate our strategy and performance – Financial performance and commercial success
in order to promote investor confidence and ensure
– Understanding how our R&D strategy is successfully
our continued access to capital.
developing our pipeline
How we engage – Management of key environment, social and governance
– Ongoing communications including the AGM, quarterly (ESG) issues to mitigate risk and create opportunity
results calls and detailed company information online What we are doing
– One-to-one meetings between Board members, senior – Continuing to report in line with best practice disclosure
executives and institutional investors including introduction on progress towards our financial targets and strategic goals
roadshows for our new Chairman and CFO
– Specific business and R&D updates and events e.g. ViiV meet
– Biannual investors and analysts perception study and, for the management, Vaccines Investor Day, Oncology roundtables
the first time in 2019, we conducted a specific ESG study
– We are increasing engagement on ESG matters
Healthcare We work with healthcare professionals (HCPs) What matters
professionals and medical experts to understand patient needs – Access to product and scientific information
and to ensure our products are being administered
and medical – Responsible sales and marketing practices
in the right way.
experts – Safety, efficacy and differentiated innovation
How we engage
What we are doing
– Scientific dialogue to increase understanding
– Increasing the use of digital channels to deliver a more
of disease management and patient experience
personalised and effective sharing of information to HCPs
– Providing high-quality, balanced information about
– Updating our salesforce incentive policy to attract and
our medicines and vaccines
retain the best talent while upholding ethical standards
– Collaboration on clinical trials and research
– Using HCP insights on disease management and patient
experience to inform the development of our medicines
R&D partners We partner with scientific institutions, national health What matters
and academia systems, business partners and academia to help – Finding the right partner to accelerate a potential medicine
ensure we develop differentiated healthcare products. or vaccine to approval to reach patients
How we engage – Pushing the science as far as it can go to advance human
– Collaboration with outstanding scientists from organisations health
across the globe – Dissemination and advancement of scientific knowledge
– Establishing joint ventures to strengthen innovation What we are doing
and efficiency – Working with world leading experts at biotechs, universities
– Working with academic institutions to accelerate and other scientific institutions to improve drug discovery
discovery and development of new medicines and increase the productivity of our R&D pipeline
– Collaborating with partners such as Open Targets, FinnGen,
and the UK Biobank that are focused on identifying
disease-relevant genes to validate high-potential targets
GSK Annual Report 2019 15Stakeholder engagement continued
Governments We work with governments and regulators to advocate What matters
and regulators for policies that encourage innovation, promote – Environments which value innovation and drive investment
efficient management of healthcare spending in life sciences
and give patients the support they need.
– Scientific funding and collaboration
How we engage – Medicines pricing and reimbursement
– Meeting with regulatory bodies throughout the – Public health threats
development process to ensure high quality
What we are doing
and safe new products
– Working with policymakers to support an operating environment
– Engaging with government health agencies
that remains competitive for R&D investment, enables mobility
to demonstrate the value of our products
of scientific talent and accelerates the uptake of innovative
– Working with governments to build a strong medicines, including the UK Life Sciences Industrial Strategy
operating environment for life sciences – Actively engaging on government proposals for healthcare
reform, including in the US where we successfully ensured
patient access to full treatment regimes for HIV and cancer
was maintained
– Partnering with authorities in China to ensure support
for global innovation, including swift regulatory approval
of Shingrix and Benlysta
NGOs and We work with partners to improve access to healthcare What matters
multilateral services and our products, and to advocate for the – Access to medicines and vaccines
policy environment in which we can be successful.
organisations – Achieving the UN SDGs and WHO targets for specific
How we engage disease areas
– Working with non-governmental organisations (NGOs) – Universal Health Coverage (UHC) and the future
and partners to research and develop products to of health systems
address global health challenges – Sustainable financing for global health
– Collaborating with NGOs and generic manufacturers to What we are doing
sustainably supply our products to developing countries
– Focusing on our unique value-add as a global health partner
– Partnerships to strengthen health systems in developing to develop products where we have scientific expertise
countries and drive progress on global health priorities – Partnering with organisations that have complementary
capabilities and reach to create sustainable models that
share risk, including working with partners to pilot
implementation of the malaria vaccine
– Leveraging our community investment programmes to support
our scientific expertise and deliver more impact for patients
Suppliers We work with thousands of suppliers, large and What matters
small, who provide goods and services that support – Prompt payment for smaller suppliers
us in delivering a reliable supply of high-quality,
– Understanding GSK standards and policies to ensure
safe products for our patients and consumers.
compliance
How we engage
– Opportunities to innovate and grow the relationship
– Regular direct engagement between business owner
What we are doing
and supplier to ensure they support GSK's strategies
– Updating our payment practices to ensure that smaller
and targets
UK suppliers benefit from preferential payment terms
– Engage with suppliers through our Third Party Oversight
– Conducting business with suppliers who share our values and
programme and by conducting in-depth audits
high quality and ethical standards to ensure security of supply
– Participate in cross-industry forums such as the
– Engaging with suppliers to develop improvement plans and
Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative and the
track progress when we identify areas for improvement
Consumer Goods Forum to improve supply
– Expanding our third-party Environment Health and Safety
chain sustainability
team to the countries where our priority suppliers are located
to provide more proactive support
Employees We involve and listen to employees to help us maintain What matters
strong employee engagement and retain talented – Opportunities for career and personal development
people.
– Flexible working to support balancing wider responsibilities
How we engage – Working in an inclusive and diverse environment
– Regular interactive ‘Let’s Talk’ events with the – Working for a purposeful company and a great line manager
Corporate Executive Team and other senior leaders
What we are doing
– Facilitating dialogue and collaboration through our
– Providing all employees with access to a new development
internal communications platform
portal with resources that are most relevant to their roles,
– Global diversity councils and Employee Resource development needs and interests
Groups covering different strands of diversity – Our largest markets have formal flexible working and carer
– Global all-employee survey and One80 Survey for policies and all our markets are reviewing their competitiveness
employees to provide feedback on line managers – Monitoring employee engagement through the employee
survey and acting on feedback to improve engagement
16 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Pharmaceuticals
Our Pharmaceuticals business has a broad portfolio of innovative and
established medicines in respiratory, HIV, immuno-inflammation and
oncology. We are strengthening our R&D pipeline through a focus on
immunology, human genetics and advanced technologies to help us
deliver transformational medicines for patients.
Progress against our long-term priorities
Innovation Performance Trust
– Strengthened our R&D pipeline – Total 2019 turnover £17.6 billion, – Filed US and EU regulatory
with eight filings and four assets up 2% AER, flat at CER submissions to simplify, optimise
advancing to pivotal phase II/III – Strengthened capabilities in and extend use of dolutegravir
studies specialty care medicine in children living with HIV
– Accelerated our oncology portfolio – Changed sales incentive – Progressed gepotidacin, the
with positive pivotal data readouts programme to recruit and retain first in a new chemical class of
and regulatory submissions for representatives with the best antibiotics to treat drug resistant
Zejula in first-line maintenance expertise and experience bacteria, to phase III clinical
ovarian cancer, belantamab research
– Supply chain productivity up
mafodotin in relapsed/refractory by more than 20% since 2016 – Donated 890 million albendazole
multiple myeloma, and dostarlimab tablets to support efforts to end
in endometrial cancer lymphatic filariasis and control
– Received approvals and expanded intestinal worms in school-age
indications for key medicines children
across our portfolio – 101 Pharmaceutical regulatory
– Invested significantly in advanced inspections, all with satisfactory
technologies, including establishing results
the Laboratory for Genomics
Research and collaborating with
Lyell Immunopharma
Read more below Read more on page 22 Read more on pages 30 to 42
Innovation
Our new R&D approach focuses on science related to the Our R&D pipeline contains 39 potential new medicines,
immune system, the use of human genetics and the application including 15 clinical oncology assets. We have doubled
of advanced technologies, such as functional genomics, the number of assets in our clinical oncology portfolio
machine learning, artificial intelligence and cell therapy. since early 2018.
This approach, powered by the multiplier effect of Science x
In 2019, we advanced four assets into pivotal phase II/III
Technology x Culture, is helping to strengthen our pipeline and
studies and achieved positive regulatory decisions and data
accelerate the pace at which we discover, develop and deliver
readouts across our portfolio.
medicines to improve patients’ lives.
We received approvals for three medicines: Dovato, an HIV
As we prepare to create New GSK, we will drive a common
treatment; Dectova, a treatment for influenza A or B; and new
approach to R&D across Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines.
self-administration options for our respiratory biologic, Nucala.
This will enable us to more effectively allocate capital and
We also received expanded indications for medicines including
share technical and scientific expertise, to deliver our pipeline,
Zejula, our oral poly ADP-ribose polymerase (PARP) inhibitor
regardless of modality, for the new Biopharma company.
for ovarian cancer and Benlysta, the world’s first biologic
We are evolving our R&D culture to embrace single-point treatment for systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE or ‘lupus’).
accountable decision making and smart risk taking We submitted eight filings for regulatory approval.
(rewarding good decisions even when the outcome may
not be as expected) to help us deliver scientific and
technological excellence.
GSK Annual Report 2019 17Pharmaceuticals continued
HIV Oncology
Around 37.9 million people are living with HIV worldwide. Cancer remains a major global cause of death. Our work
We have a long-standing commitment to combatting, in oncology aspires to maximise patient survival through
preventing and ultimately curing HIV, helping to make transformational medicines. We have an increasingly large
it a smaller part of people’s lives. and broad portfolio of assets in development, both alone
and in novel combination studies. Our pipeline is focused
Our HIV business is managed through ViiV Healthcare,
on four areas: immuno-oncology, which uses the human
which is majority owned by GSK, with Pfizer and Shionogi
immune system to treat cancer; cell therapy, where human
as shareholders. ViiV Healthcare is the sole global specialist
T-cells are engineered to target the disease; cancer epigenetics,
HIV pharmaceutical company. We are at the forefront of
where the gene-regulatory system of the epigenome is modulated
innovation, with the world’s only HIV-dedicated discovery
to curb cancer; and synthetic lethality, where two mechanisms
and early development facility. Our portfolio of 15 approved
work together synergistically to destroy cancerous cells.
antiretroviral medicines offers a range of therapeutic options
for people living with HIV. They include our established We are making good progress. Since early 2018 we have
therapies Tivicay and Triumeq, which contain dolutegravir, doubled the number of assets in our clinical oncology pipeline.
considered the most potent available antiretroviral. In 2019 we achieved three positive pivotal data readouts
and are on track for three oncology launches in 2020.
2019 was a pivotal year for ViiV Healthcare, with growing
We have achieved this by accelerating our own clinical
momentum for our portfolio of two-drug regimen (2DR)
programmes, fast-tracking the assets acquired with the
therapies, which are powered by dolutegravir. We launched
oncology-focused biopharmaceutical company Tesaro,
Dovato, our new once-daily, single-pill 2DR, the first approved
and successful business development collaborations,
for treatment-naïve patients, in the US and EU. This followed
including our strategic alliance with Merck KGaA.
positive results from the GEMINI 1 and 2 and TANGO studies
which showed Dovato was as effective as dolutegravir-based To further strengthen our oncology pipeline and enhance our
three-drug regimens. By containing fewer antiretrovirals than cell and gene therapy programme, we announced a five-year
traditional HIV treatments, Dovato and our first 2DR, Juluca, collaboration with Lyell Immunopharma. Lyell is exploring ways
aim to reduce the number of HIV drugs people living with of improving the function and ‘fitness’ of T-cells to enhance
the virus take over a lifetime. Following its 2018 launch in response rates in solid tumour cancers and prevent relapses
the US, Japan and nine European markets, Juluca achieved due to T-cell ‘exhaustion’. Combining our cell and gene therapy
reimbursement in 10 additional markets in 2019. During the programmes with Lyell’s technologies has the potential to
year, the SWORD 1 and 2 studies demonstrated Juluca’s enhance the activity and specificity of cell therapies in solid
long-term safety, efficacy and tolerability. tumour cancers.
We submitted cabotegravir and rilpivirine, the first once-monthly, Our current oncology assets
complete long-acting HIV regimen for regulatory review in the Zejula, our oral PARP inhibitor, is approved in the US
US and EU. This followed the global ATLAS and FLAIR pivotal and Europe for women with recurrent ovarian cancer.
phase III studies which demonstrated that the therapy was We believe that Zejula could transform treatment options
as effective as a daily oral three-drug regimen in maintaining for patients in additional ovarian cancer stages, and for
viral suppression. In December 2019, we received a complete both men and women with other cancers.
response letter from the FDA regarding the US submission
Following a priority review, in October 2019, the FDA
and will work closely with the regulatory authority to determine
approved an expanded indication for Zejula as a late-line
appropriate next steps. Regulatory review in the EU is ongoing.
treatment for women whose advanced ovarian cancer is
In July 2019, we launched the year-long CUSTOMIZE study associated with homologous recombination deficiency.
to identify and evaluate ways of implementing a once-monthly The approval was supported by the positive results of the
HIV regimen into clinical practice. The programme involves phase II QUADRA study. This approval allows us to address
ViiV Healthcare employees working with clinical staff, healthcare the unmet clinical need and demonstrates that Zejula is active
providers and people living with HIV across the US. as a late line therapy for women beyond those with BRCA
mutations. In December 2019, we also filed for US approval
In December 2019, we filed for US regulatory approval for
of Zejula in first-line maintenance therapy of women with
fostemsavir, our first-in-class attachment inhibitor for heavily
platinum responsive ovarian cancer. The submission, which
treatment-experienced adults with HIV-1 infection, including
has been accepted by the FDA, was based on positive results
those who are failing on current antiretroviral regimens and
from the phase III PRIMA study which showed a significant
have exhausted all treatment options. The submission followed
reduction in disease progression for women, irrespective
positive results from the 96-week phase III BRIGHTE study.
of their biomarker status.
In line with our commitment to delivering optimal HIV treatment
Reflecting our broad development plan, a number of further
formulations for children, we made two regulatory submissions
clinical studies of Zejula, alone and in combination with other
in December 2019 that aim to simplify, optimise and extend
therapies, are in progress for additional ovarian cancer stages
the use of dolutegravir in paediatric HIV patients. For more
as well as for non-small cell lung cancer and breast cancer.
information (see page 32).
18 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Pharmaceuticals continued
Belantamab mafodotin, our first-in-class, humanised Respiratory
immunoconjugate against B-cell maturation antigen GSK has been a world leader in respiratory for five decades,
(anti-BCMA), is being studied for the treatment of multiple pioneering the development of modern, innovative medicines
myeloma, the second most common blood cancer, for for asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
which there is currently no cure. Our extensive development We have launched six new treatments since 2012, establishing
programme for this asset will enable us to move quickly into the broadest portfolio of once-daily, inhaled respiratory
earlier lines of treatment. In December 2019, we filed for medicines in our industry.
regulatory approval following positive results from the pivotal
In 2019, we continued the successful roll out of Trelegy Ellipta,
DREAMM-2 study, which explored belantamab mafodotin
our single inhaler triple therapy for COPD. It is now available
in patients with relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma, and
in over 40 markets, with key launches in 2019 that included
have subsequently been granted a priority review by the FDA.
Japan and China. Following positive results from the phase III
In the second-line setting, our phase I/II DREAMM-6 study CAPTAIN study, which showed the effect of Trelegy in treating
is assessing belantamab mafodotin in combination with patients with asthma, we filed for this new indication in the US
standard of care. The results will inform pivotal second-line and Japan.
studies, which are due to start in the second half of 2020.
Nucala, our first-in-class biologic for patients with severe
We also started two other studies: DREAMM-5, a fourth-line,
eosinophilic asthma (SEA), continued to strengthen its
phase I/II study exploring use in combination with novel agents,
clinical profile with approval in the US and EU of two new
and DREAMM-9, a phase III first-line study in combination with
self-administration options, and early data from the REALITI-A
standard of care.
study showing Nucala significantly reduces exacerbations in
Dostarlimab is a PD-1 inhibitor targeting endometrial cancer, a real-world setting. Approval in the US for use in children with
the sixth most common cancer in women. It is being evaluated SEA aged six to 11 provided a new option for this difficult to
for use as a monotherapy and in combination with other treat patient population.
immuno-oncology agents. We filed for regulatory approval
Despite our advances in respiratory medicines, there are still
in a second-line endometrial cancer setting in late 2019,
areas of significant unmet need where we continue to innovate.
following positive results from the GARNET study, the
We are exploring Nucala’s potential across a spectrum of
largest ever trial of an anti-PD-1 monotherapy in patients with
eosinophil-driven diseases and in 2019 reported positive results
advanced or recurrent endometrial cancer. In September 2019,
from our hypereosinophilic syndrome programme which will
we enrolled the first patients in RUBY, a first-line study of
support regulatory submissions in 2020. We initiated a new
dostarlimab in combination with chemotherapy.
phase III study in COPD, and data from our nasal polyps
In February 2019, we announced a global alliance with Merck programme is anticipated in 2020. We achieved proof of
KGaA to jointly develop bintrafusp alfa, an investigational concept for two further investigational medicines in our
bifunctional fusion protein immunotherapy currently in biologics pipeline, a long-acting anti-interleukin-5 (IL-5)
development for multiple difficult-to-treat cancers. The most antagonist for SEA and an anti-IL33 receptor for severe asthma,
advanced potential registration study is in second-line biliary which we hope will provide new options for patients and extend
tract cancer, a group of rare, aggressive gastrointestinal cancers our respiratory leadership into the future.
associated with limited treatment options and poor outcomes.
Immuno-inflammation
Our anti-ICOS agonist antibody, GSK3359609, is designed We are committed to the research and development of
to selectively enhance the function of T-cells. We are studying medicines for immune-mediated diseases, such as lupus and
the antibody alone and in combination with other therapies, rheumatoid arthritis (RA), that are a significant health burden for
due to its considerable potential across a range of tumour patients and society. Our research focuses on the biology of the
types. Following the positive results of the INDUCE-1 study, immune system, reflecting our aim to develop immunological-
we initiated a phase II/III study with registration potential based medicines that alter the course of inflammatory disease.
in combination with pembrolizumab in first-line recurrent/
We are the only company with a biologic treatment, Benlysta,
metastatic head and neck squamous cell carcinoma.
specifically developed and approved for adult and paediatric
Our lead T-cell immunotherapy, GSK3377794, targets lupus. In 2019 the medicine was approved for adults in China
the NY-ESO-1 antigen that is expressed across multiple where more than one million people have lupus. During the
cancer types. The therapy is on an accelerated development year intravenous Benlysta became the first biologic treatment
path, having received both European PRIME and US FDA to be approved in the US, EU and Japan for children who have
breakthrough status, with ongoing phase II studies in synovial limited treatment options for this challenging disease. We also
sarcoma, lung cancer and multiple myeloma. This asset, along announced positive results from the pivotal BLISS-LN study
with our other cell therapies, could be enhanced by leveraging showing the effect of Benlysta in active lupus nephritis, an
the technologies available to us via our new collaboration inflammation of the kidneys caused by SLE.
with Lyell Immunopharma.
We announced the start of the phase III study of otilimab,
our anti GM-CSF antibody, in patients with RA, following
results from the phase II BAROQUE study. About 24.5 million
people globally are affected by RA, a chronic, systemic
inflammatory condition.
GSK Annual Report 2019 19Pharmaceuticals continued
Pharmaceuticals pipeline overview
We have 39 assets in development, of which 15 are focused on oncology. We expect a number of pivotal readouts in 2020.
Phase Compound Indication
Pivotal/registration* Benlysta + Rituxan1 systemic lupus erythematosus2
cabotegravir2 LA + rilpivirine1 long-acting HIV
A Dovato HIV
daprodustat (HIF-PHI) anaemia
fostemsavir (attachment inhibitor) HIV
Nucala COPD/hypereosinophilic syndrome/nasal polyps
Trelegy1 asthma
A Dectova1 IV IV influenza
A Nucala pre-filled syringe severe asthma
belantamab mafodotin1 (BCMA ADC) multiple myeloma
Zejula (PARP inhibitor)1 first-line maintenance ovarian cancer2
dostarlimab (PD-1 antagonist )1 endometrial cancer
bintrafusp alfa1 (TGFβ trap/anti-PDL1) biliary tract cancer 2
otilimab1 (3196165) rheumatoid arthritis
gepotidacin1 (2140944) uncomplicated urinary tract infection and gonorrhoea
33596091 (ICOS receptor agonist) head and neck squamous cell carcinoma2,3
Phase I expansion/phase II 3640254 (maturation inhibitor) HIV
32288361 (HBV ASO) hepatitis B
37728471 (IL33r antagonist) severe asthma
33777941 (NY-ESO-1 TCR) cancer
2330811 (OSM antagonist) systemic sclerosis
2881078 (SARM) COPD muscle weakness
525762 (molibresib, BET inhibitor) cancer
2330672 (linerixibat, IBAT inhibitor) cholestatic pruritus in primary biliary cholangitis
33265951 (PRMT5 inhibitor) cancer
GR1216191 (oxytocin) postpartum haemorrhage
TSR-022 (TIM-3 antagonist)1 cancer
30366561 (leucyl t-RNA inhibitor) tuberculosis
28317811 (LAG3) ulcerative colitis
TSR-0331 (LAG3 antagonist) cancer
Phase I 38582791 (CCL17 antagonist) osteoarthritis pain
35112941 (IL5 LA antagonist) asthma
1795091 (TLR4 agonist) cancer
38101091 (broadly neutralising antibody) HIV
35371421 (NYESO1 ImmTAC) cancer
34391711 (H-PGDS inhibitor) Duchenne muscular dystrophy
33687151 (PRMT1 inhibitor) cancer
2269557 (nemiralisib PI3Kd inhibitor) activated phosphoinositide 3-kinase delta syndrome
3745417 (STING agonist) cancer
31749981 (OX40 agonist) cancer
31868991 (CRK-12 inhibitor) visceral leishmaniasis
3732394 (combinectin entry inhibitor) HIV
A Approved Progressed/New 1 In-licence or other alliance relationship with Note: for oncology, where phase I studies are
third party. conducted in patients, the progression from
* Includes programmes in pivotal phases
of development or where pivotal data has 2 Additional indications also under investigation. phase I to phase II is defined when expansion
reported and regulatory submissions are 3 ICOS HNSCC is a phase II/III study with cohorts are started.
under consideration or under review. registrational potential.
20 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Pharmaceuticals continued
Infectious diseases Our five-year collaboration with the University of California
We started two phase III studies for gepotidacin, the first to establish the Laboratory for Genomics Research (LGR)
in a new chemical class of antibiotics to treat drug resistant is designed to create a state-of-the-art lab to apply CRISPR
bacteria, in urogenital gonorrhoea and uncomplicated urinary gene editing technologies to drug discovery. The new laboratory
tract infection. This marks the first time these infections will explore how gene mutations cause disease and will aim
have been addressed by new oral antibiotics in 20 years. to develop new CRISPR-based technologies to understand
First results are expected by the end of 2021. gene function. With genetically-validated targets twice as likely
to become successful medicines, applications of CRISPR
In 2019, Brazil became the first malaria-endemic country
to drug discovery will be an important approach to improve
to approve Kozenis for the radical cure of P. vivax malaria.
R&D productivity.
Single-dose Kozenis (known as Krintafel in the US) is the
first new treatment for P. vivax malaria for more than 60 years. The LGR programme builds on our 2018 collaboration with
This milestone follows publication of the positive results from 23andMe, the world’s leading consumer and research genetics
the DETECTIVE and GATHER phase III studies. company, by enhancing our ability to identify the function of
disease-relevant genes and validate high-potential disease
We are using new technology to develop novel medicines
targets. We aim to begin our first clinical programme with
for hepatitis B, a viral infection of the liver that can lead to
23andMe in 2020 and have eight ongoing joint programmes
significant health conditions, including cirrhosis, liver failure
across oncology, immunology, neurology and cardiovascular.
and liver cancer. We exercised an option to license Ionis
LGR also extends the relevance of other genetics and genomics
Pharmaceuticals’ antisense medicines for people with
collaborations, such as the Open Targets collaboration which
chronic hepatitis B following positive phase II results.
has led to the discovery of a new synthetic lethal target for
We received EU approval for Dectova for the intravenous treating cancers with genomic instability (WRN ReqQ Helicase)
treatment of influenza A or B which can cause epidemic by GSK scientists in collaboration with the Sanger Institute in
seasonal infections. The innovation, intended for hospitalised the UK. Additional important collaborations include FinnGen,
patients, complements our oral version of this neuraminidase the UK Biobank, and the Dutch Human Functional Genomics
inhibitor, which we market as Relenza. Project, with which ViiV Healthcare has announced a five-year
Additional programmes collaboration.
In Japan, we filed for regulatory approval for daprodustat, Delivering next generation medicines
an oral hypoxia-inducible factor prolyl hydroxylase inhibitor We are evolving our culture in R&D so that we are better
for patients with anaemia associated with chronic kidney equipped to discover and deliver the next generation of
disease. If approved, daprodustat will provide a new and transformational medicines. We are incentivising scientists
convenient oral treatment option for these patients. to have a mindset of single-point accountability and smart risk
Leveraging advanced technologies taking, where courageous decisions are made and owned
Advanced technologies are central to our R&D approach. by individuals, rather than being consensus-driven.
We have made significant investments in artificial intelligence, Significant steps have been taken across R&D to ensure
machine learning, functional genomics and cell therapy to we are prioritising our best assets, and ending or exiting
accelerate our identification of novel targets and medicines. under-performing programmes. Moving away from a therapy
To realise the potential of these cutting-edge technologies, area based approach to research is helping our teams to
in 2019 we made numerous internal appointments to lead focus on the molecules most likely to become medicines.
and build our in-house capabilities, and also announced
We are embracing fresh thinking with new talent in 24% of
external partnerships with ambitious goals.
key R&D roles, around half joining from outside the company,
and we have moved to a more integrated governance model,
involving scientific peer review, commercial input and data-
driven decisions.
GSK Annual Report 2019 21Pharmaceuticals continued
Performance
Pharmaceuticals turnover in 2019 was £17,554 million, up Creating a specialty-ready, more competitive supply chain
2% AER, but flat at CER. HIV sales were up 3% AER, 1% CER, Reliable supply is core to growth in key therapy areas. We are
to £4,854 million. Respiratory sales were up 18% AER, 15% creating a more modern, agile supply chain, underpinned by
CER, to £3,081 million. Sales of Established Pharmaceuticals new technology, that can launch specialty medicines at speed,
were £8,776 million, down 7% AER, 8% CER. See Group while accelerating delivery across our portfolio.
financial review on page 49 for full details.
In 2019, we opened a next-generation biopharmaceutical
Accelerating growth and transitioning towards manufacturing facility at our Upper Merion, Pennsylvania site.
specialty care This technologically-advanced $120 million manufacturing hub
In 2019, we continued to align our resources behind has the flexibility and speed necessary for making complex
the markets, therapy areas and brands with the greatest specialty medicines. A new analytical lab is also part of the
opportunity for growth, to improve our performance. facility, which brings together the R&D and manufacturing teams
Excellent execution of launches in HIV and respiratory was at Upper Merion. This will help us develop a more highly-skilled
a major focus. By concentrating on key markets and assets, workforce, improved technological and scientific capabilities and
and our ongoing investment in clinical evidence to deliver the right infrastructure to research potential new genetic targets
compelling and competitive medicine profiles, we achieved and manufacture them into new medicines. We also completed
strong performances from our new and recent launches, a $139 million expansion of our Rockville, Maryland site, which
including Trelegy Ellipta, Nucala, Juluca and Dovato. will increase manufacturing capacity for Benlysta by 50%.
In line with the growing shift in our portfolio to innovative In Singapore, we opened a new state-of-the-art pharmaceutical
specialty care products, including oncology, we reinforced our manufacturing facility at our Jurong site. The $96 million
capabilities in these areas. In anticipation of our three oncology development included the creation of two continuous
launches in 2020, and leveraging our acquisition of Tesaro, we manufacturing facilities, and the expansion and modernisation
made rapid and material progress in developing our oncology of an existing production unit. The transformation is expected
commercial expertise. We are recruiting outstanding people with to significantly improve efficiency, expand capacity for
a track record of success in oncology into key markets, including manufacturing our assets, including daprodustat and
rebalancing our US salesforce. We also increased our broader dolutegravir, and reduce medicine production times.
investment in specialty care, for example with Benlysta, where
In 2019, we completed exits of the Guarulhos, Brazil, Cork,
additional resource and a new team drove strong performance.
Ireland and Suzhou, China sites from our network, and initiated
As part of our two-year programme to prepare for separation, the exit of the Verona, Italy site, which we expect to complete
and to support our long-term priorities, we will further rationalise in 2020.
our portfolio through divestments. We plan to review several
Improving supply performance
assets including our prescription dermatology business.
Our on-time in-full supply performance levels to customers
Engaging with healthcare professionals again improved, putting GSK in the top quartile as
To further support this transition towards a more specialty care benchmarked with our peers on this measure. Productivity
focused portfolio, we revised our incentive programme for sales levels have now risen by more than 20% over the past three
representatives in certain countries. This will allow us to attract years. All new products were introduced on time, including
and retain the best salespeople, enhancing the quality of our successful delivery of first-market launches for Dovato and
dialogue with healthcare professionals (HCPs) to help them the new Nucala self-administration options.
better serve patients. The changes uphold our ethical and
We continued to perform well against safety, quality and
values-led approach to HCP engagement, in full compliance
compliance measures. There were 101 Pharmaceutical
with laws and policies, while supporting delivery of strong
regulatory inspections in 2019, all satisfactory.
performance. They were applied initially in the US, UK and
Canada, with comprehensive training, controls and monitoring Digital transformation
to ensure appropriate implementation. We are progressing towards our goal of becoming a digital
and data-driven organisation. In 2019, we continued to
We also evolved the way we engage with HCPs in certain
improve the way we harness technology, developing new
countries to improve understanding of new data and clinical
ways of working to drive performance and increase our ability
experience with our innovative products, and to deliver better
to deliver medicines to patients. We are leveraging data to
outcomes for patients. This included the introduction of
unlock smarter, faster interactions with our customers and
scientific workshops to enable interactive debate with and
understand the impact our commercial activities have on
among HCPs, and an increased use of digital channels to
prescribing. This includes piloting artificial intelligence-driven
support scientific engagement through virtual advisory boards
recommendations to help optimise our HCP engagement.
and educational activities such as webinars. These initiatives
We are also applying advanced analytics to drive efficiencies
have been well-received with positive feedback from HCPs.
across the business, from supply chain management and
Early indications suggest the changes are enhancing
manufacturing to our commercial operations, identifying
understanding of the science behind key medicines,
opportunities to free up resources.
including Nucala and our 2DR HIV treatments.
22 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Vaccines
We are the world’s largest vaccines company by revenue, delivering vaccines
that protect people at all stages of life. Our R&D focuses on developing
vaccines against infectious diseases that combine high medical need
and strong market potential.
Innovation Performance Trust
– Progressed four new candidate – Total 2019 turnover £7.2 billion, – Released positive final phase II
vaccines into human trials, up 21% AER, up 19% CER results of our TB candidate vaccine
including one using a novel primarily driven by growth and announced its licensing to
vaccine technology (SAM) in Shingrix the Gates MRI for its continued
– Received FDA fast track – Optimised our supply chain development for low income
designation for all three to increase Shingrix production countries with high TB burden
RSV candidate vaccines capabilities in January 2020
– Increased pipeline focus on – Received authorisation of Shingrix – Launched our RTS,S malaria
therapeutic and antimicrobial in China for the prevention vaccine, in selected regions
resistance vaccines of shingles in adults aged 50 of Malawi, Ghana and Kenya
– Agreed three partnerships and over as part of a WHO-coordinated
pilot programme
to accelerate the development
of new assets or technology – Made our adjuvant technology
available to partners including
CEPI in early 2020 to support
rapid development of candidate
vaccines against coronavirus
(SARS-CoV-2)
Read more below Read more on page 26 Read more on pages 30 to 42
Innovation
Our R&D approach is powered by the multiplier effect of The category ‘life-cycle management’ is focused on the
Science x Technology x Culture. This focus is expected to development of new presentations and indications, and
enable us to develop and deliver groundbreaking vaccines, on the geographic expansion of our marketed vaccines.
remain at the forefront of vaccines science, and leverage new We classify as ‘new commercial assets’, those vaccine
disruptive technologies: all within an R&D culture built on smart candidates with the potential to make the greatest contribution
risk taking and that attracts, develops and retains the best to our commercial success in the future, and 'new global health
people, and partners with leading experts. assets', as those vaccine candidates with the highest potential
to impact on global health threats. In the development of
We have 15 innovative assets in clinical development, with
our global health assets we are using our science, including
key data readouts on several candidate vaccines expected
proprietary technology platforms, and focusing our investment
in 2020. We classify our vaccine pipeline in three categories
for maximum impact while ensuring the development is
(life-cycle management, new commercial assets and global
sustainable and backed by strong partnerships (see Trust
health assets) to ensure we allocate the appropriate resources
on page 31).
to priority vaccine development programmes that deliver the
best value to society and support the Group’s strategy.
GSK Annual Report 2019 23Vaccines continued
In 2019, we accelerated the development of our candidate Each of our three RSV candidate vaccines is tailored to meet
vaccines against respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), and the specific needs of its target group: maternal, paediatric
advanced our therapeutic candidate vaccine against chronic and older adults. Given their promising early results and the
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). We progressed four strong medical need, all three RSV candidate vaccines have
new strategic candidate vaccines into human trials; one for been FDA fast tracked in 2019. They are in phase I/II trials
RSV in older adults, the second against Clostridium difficile with key data readouts expected in 2020.
which could help to address antimicrobial resistance, the third,
Our maternal RSV candidate is based on a recombinant
testing our SAM technology in a rabies model, and the fourth,
pre-fusion antigen, our paediatric RSV candidate harnesses
our therapeutic candidate vaccine against chronic hepatitis B.
our adenovirus vector technology and our older adult RSV
To focus our work, we also terminated our hepatitis C
candidate, for people over 60, leverages the recombinant
virus and universal flu programmes as they had not met our
pre-fusion antigen combined with our AS01 adjuvant system,
expectations. Our work on an HIV candidate vaccine for
which is a key ingredient in Shingrix, enabling its efficacy
developing countries was discontinued after clinical results
and success in market.
showed lack of efficacy. We also transferred our candidate
vaccines against Ebola and Marburg viruses to the Sabin COPD
Vaccine Institute (see page 31). One in 20 of all deaths globally is caused by COPD, but
no vaccine currently exists to prevent the disease. Our COPD
Our expertise in both vaccines and advanced technology
candidate is a therapeutic vaccine aimed at reducing the
has allowed us to focus our technologies on therapeutic and
frequency of acute exacerbations and slowing disease
antimicrobial resistance candidate vaccines. This also puts
progression in COPD sufferers. It contains four bacterial
us in a strong competitive position in the new era of therapeutic
antigens and our AS01 adjuvant system. The programme
vaccines. Our pipeline will increasingly expand from prophylactic
complements our leadership in medicines for respiratory
assets to include therapeutic assets which can provide benefits
diseases. To date we have demonstrated that our adjuvanted
throughout the course of life. We are investing in several
COPD vaccine candidate is safe and highly immunogenic.
therapeutic assets (including moving our candidate vaccine
In 2019, enrolment for our phase IIb study in adults was
against chronic hepatitis B into phase I/II clinical development)
completed ahead of plan and the study results are due
that have the additional benefit of accelerated delivery, as they
in 2020.
typically involve shorter regulatory lead times and allow for
accelerated clinical testing. Life-cycle management: shingles and meningitis
We balance the focus on our strong pipeline with the active
Our vaccines scientists are the foundation of our innovation
life-cycle management of our marketed vaccines. This enables
success and we continue to evolve our culture to focus on
us to deliver new presentations and reach more populations
creating an environment where people take accountability,
and geographies with our established vaccines, ensuring they
smart risks and focus on accelerating development timelines.
continue to play a strong role in our business performance.
In 2019, we simplified our governance process and
Six of our pipeline programmes are evolutions of our existing
implemented single point decision making. In early 2020
products or franchises.
we announced the proposal to create a development
organisation for all GSK R&D as part of our two-year Shingles
programme to create a New GSK with a common R&D Shingrix marks a step change in the prevention of shingles,
approach. We have made progress in accelerating priority a painful and potentially serious illness. The vaccine addresses
pipeline assets, including accelerating the delivery of our the age-related decline in immunity, achieving more than 90%
RSV portfolio. This has been achieved by challenging our efficacy across all age groups. It is the first non-live shingles
approach to regulatory engagement and using techniques vaccine to combine a specific antigen with an adjuvant to
such as adaptive clinical trial design and quality by design sustain the immune response. In 2019 we published new
to reduce manufacturing scale-up time. clinical data supporting the use of Shingrix in adults at greater
risk of shingles due to conditions such as cancer or organ
Developing and delivering ground-breaking vaccines:
transplant. We are currently exploring the possibility of
RSV and COPD
extending the vaccine’s indication based on these results.
An important factor determining the development of vaccine
candidates in our pipeline is the burden of the disease – both Shingrix received the prestigious Prix Galien award in every
COPD and infections with RSV have a high prevalence and country where it was available in 2019: US (best pharmaceutical
medical need and are therefore key assets in our pipeline. product), Germany (best primary care product), and Canada
(best innovative product). The Prix Galien is considered the
RSV
world’s leading award for innovation and excellence in medical
We have a portfolio of three different candidate vaccines
products and devices.
against RSV, the most common cause of lower respiratory tract
infection. Currently no vaccine protects against this virus which,
in the US alone, leads to 177,000 hospitalisations and 14,000
adult deaths every year.
24 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Vaccines continued
Meningitis Partnerships
We are the market leader in vaccines against meningococcal Partnerships are central to our innovation strategy and to our
meningitis, based on 2019 revenue, with our complementary efforts to accelerate vaccine development. We collaborate
portfolio of Bexsero, targeting serogroup B, and Menveo, with leading experts, institutions and companies to access
against serogroups A, C, W, and Y. Since its launch in 2015 external, cutting-edge technology and expertise. We aim to
Bexsero has become the industry-leading meningitis B vaccine. be the scientific partner of choice and currently have more
In the US, where it is licensed for 10 to 25 year olds, a phase III than 110 external collaborations across multiple fields.
trial is currently evaluating lowering the age indication to two
In 2019, we continued building valuable partnerships, including
months. Simultaneously, an alternative, liquid presentation of
one to develop a new vaccine to prevent cervical cancer,
Menveo is progressing through phase II trials to simplify vaccine
with Innovax and Xiamen University in China. We established
preparation steps for healthcare providers. In January 2020, the
a collaboration with VBI, a biotech company, to facilitate
New England Journal of Medicine published two independent
development of a specialised therapeutic vaccine candidate
meningitis B studies demonstrating the real world impact of
for patients with recurrent glioblastoma. We also established
Bexsero in reducing disease in infants – showing a 75% drop
a partnership with Viome, a company with deep expertise
in cases in the UK over three years – and the need for direct,
in understanding the gut microflora and its role in chronic
individual protection among adolescents. The US FDA
diseases, to facilitate vaccine development to prevent or
approved the indication of a single booster dose administration
even treat such conditions.
of Menveo to individuals aged 15 to 55 years who are at
continued risk of meningococcal disease if at least four years
Vaccines pipeline
have elapsed since a previous dose.
We remain committed to developing a pentavalent Phase Indication/vaccine
meningitis ABCWY vaccine targeting the five most common Registration Shingrix immunocompromised*
meningococcal serogroups. Our research efforts are building Rotarix liquid (PCV free1)
on our successful vaccines Bexsero and Menveo, combining
Phase III Bexsero infants (US)
the antigens of these two vaccines with favourable safety and
MMR (US)
efficacy profiles. Following the completion of the phase II
studies in 2019, we are in discussion with the regulatory Phase II Therapeutic COPD*
authorities about a potential phase III start. Key data are
RSV paediatric
expected to be published in 2020.
MenABCWY
Leveraging advanced technologies
Menveo liquid
Our expertise and capabilities in developing and applying
advanced technologies is an important differentiator. We Malaria (fractional dose)*
have led the industry in adjuvant technology for decades Shigella*
and continue to innovate in this field.
RSV maternal*
Our adjuvant technology platforms, which lead to an enhanced Phase I/II RSV older adults*
immune response, play a key role in our innovation: our AS01
Therapeutic chronic hepatitis B*
adjuvant technology is a key component in six of our pipeline
assets, including our RSV and COPD candidate vaccines, as Clostridium difficile
well as enabling the success of our licensed Shingrix vaccine. SAM (rabies model)
Our AS03 adjuvant technology has been made available
to partners including CEPI for collaborations to strengthen the
global response to the coronavirus epidemic (SARS-CoV-2).
Commercial assets Global Health assets Life-cycle management
Our SAM platform – which started clinical investigation
* In-license or other alliance relationship with third party.
in August 2019 – has the potential to significantly reduce
1 Porcine circo virus free formulation.
the lead time of vaccines research, enable faster, simpler
manufacturing, and improve vaccine potency. Other novel
technologies we have been progressing in 2019 include
bioconjugates and generalised modules for membrane
antigens (GMMA), used to investigate two shigella
candidates currently in phase II (see Trust section).
GSK Annual Report 2019 25Vaccines continued
Performance
Vaccines turnover in 2019 was £7,157 million, up 21% AER We have directed significant capital into expanding our supply
and 19% CER, primarily driven by growth in sales of Shingrix. chain capacity to meet the demand for Shingrix and are working
Meningitis vaccines also contributed significantly to growth. on creating a new purpose-built facility which we expect to bring
See Group financial review on page 57 for full details. on line from 2024. Based on our strengthened manufacturing
capacity, we achieved supply of high teens of millions of doses
Our future growth strategy
in 2019, over a year ahead of our original plans. In the meantime,
Our ambition is to continue to grow our business ahead of
we are ensuring continuity of supply across the markets that
the global vaccines market. To achieve this objective, we are
have already launched Shingrix and by phased launches in
prioritising our key assets, Shingrix and Bexsero and focusing
additional markets.
on the US and China, the world’s two largest vaccines markets.
In 2019, to improve focus and efficiency, we divested two
As our Shingrix manufacturing capacity increases, we have
of our sites, in Ankleshwar, India and Tianyuan, China.
the opportunity to expand this vaccine’s geographic footprint
We have also transferred to Bavarian Nordic two of our
over time. During the year we received regulatory approval
travel vaccines, against rabies and tick-born encephalitis.
for Shingrix in China where we plan to have a phased launch
to ensure continuity of supply. There is also potential to expand Supply performance
the reach of Shingrix by increasing the coverage in eligible Our supply performance has continued to improve as
adults in the US and through extending its indication to younger, demonstrated by our Bexsero, Shingrix and flu supply.
immune-compromised adults. In 2019, we shipped 701 million doses and achieved
strong on-time, in-full (OTIF) delivery.
Our other key strategic asset, Bexsero, already has a 70%
share of the global meningitis B vaccines market, based on 2019 As part of our two-year programme to create New GSK,
revenue. To further grow Bexsero, our main geographic focus we will optimise our Vaccines manufacturing network to
will be on the EU and US. In the EU, our infant indication has a support both commercial and pipeline assets. This will
strong market advantage, as the competitor product only offers include investment in lyophilisation facilities, filling and
adolescent protection. In the US, our short immunisation packaging technologies and further simplification of
schedule, that allows for both doses to be taken within one supply chain processes.
month, is particularly relevant during local meningitis outbreaks.
All Vaccines’ sites inspected by the FDA in 2019 passed.
To further expand in the US, besides Shingrix and Bexsero, In Belgium, our pertussis acellular manufacturing facility
we are developing assets specifically for the US market, passed an FDA pre-approval inspection, while our new
including an MMR vaccine and a PCV-free formulation rotavirus inactivated poliovirus vaccine unit is on track to file for
vaccine, both currently in phase III testing. In China, we plan EU approval.
to leverage our established vaccine portfolio, including Cervarix
Digital transformation
and Engerix-B, as well as licensing more of our existing vaccines
We are progressing towards our goal of becoming a digital
in the future.
and data-driven organisation. In 2019, we continued to improve
Creating a simpler, more competitive supply chain the way we harness technology, developing new ways of working
We have a world-class network of 12 manufacturing sites, to drive performance and increase our ability to deliver vaccines
across 9 countries. This gives us a strategic global supply to people around the world. We are leveraging data, artificial
capability, which allows us to produce and deliver around intelligence and digital models to optimise our research and
2 million vaccine doses every day. development projects as well as our supply network to drive
efficiencies across the business.
26 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Consumer Healthcare
Our world-leading Consumer Healthcare business combines science and
consumer insights to create innovative everyday healthcare brands that
consumers trust and experts recommend for oral health, pain relief, cold,
flu and allergy relief, digestive health, and vitamins, minerals and supplements.
Progress against our long-term priorities
Innovation Performance Trust
– 44 first market launches across all – Total 2019 turnover £9.0 billion, – Supply chain service levels
categories including Sensodyne up 17% AER, up 17% CER, continued to improve, with
Pronamel Intensive Enamel Repair up 2% proforma excellent on-time, in-full delivery
and TUMS Chewy Bites with – Completed joint venture with performance
Cooling Sensation
Pfizer that combined our consumer – Helped 3,500 children access
– 133 new innovation roll-outs healthcare businesses; on track to free life-changing cleft lip and
including Sensodyne Sensitivity deliver synergies of £500 million palate surgery and comprehensive
& Gum and Polident Cushion total annual cost savings by 2022 cleft care through our partnership
and Comfort with Smile Train
Read more below Read more on pages 28 to 29 Read more on pages 30 to 42
Innovation
In 2019, we closed a deal with Pfizer to combine our two In denture care, our consumer insights show that denture
consumer healthcare businesses, making us number one wearers experience gum discomfort on a regular basis and
globally in over-the-counter (OTC) medicines and therapeutic this can have a significant impact on their lives. To address this,
oral health, and giving us leading positions in key geographies we developed Polident Cushion and Comfort which provides
including the US and China.1 better cushioning and comfort for tired and tender gums as well
as providing a strong denture adhesive. In 2019, it launched
The proportion of our sales in 2019 from products introduced
in 14 markets including Italy and Spain.
in the past three years was 12%.
In pain relief, we gained approval from the FDA in February
Delivering best-in-class innovation
2020 for Voltaren Arthritis Pain as an OTC product for the
We combine deep consumer insights and scientific and
temporary relief of arthritis pain. Voltaren Arthritis Pain is the first
technical expertise to deliver innovations across each of our
prescription strength, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory (NSAID)
categories. For example, in oral health we launched our most
topical gel for arthritis pain available OTC in the US to the nearly
advanced formulation for enamel care, Pronamel Intensive
30 million Americans with osteoarthritis.
Enamel Repair toothpaste, in the US, UK and Germany.
With more than 80% of people globally at risk of enamel TUMS, an almost 90-year-old brand, continues to innovate
wear, and 30% of European adults aged 18-35 already by focusing on improving fast heartburn relief. One of the most
showing moderate signs of enamel wear, this formula is common heartburn symptoms is a burning sensation in the
proven to actively repair acid-weakened enamel to help mouth and throat. TUMS Chewy Bites have always been fast
people strengthen and protect their teeth. acting, but it was essential that we develop an antacid that
consumers could also feel working. To address this, we created
Another launch in 2019 was Sensodyne Sensitivity & Gum,
TUMS Chewy Bites with Cooling Sensation; it goes to work
which was developed for approximately one third of the adult
in seconds while providing a cooling sensation so consumers
population that experience tooth sensitivity, with over half of them
can cool down and fight heartburn fast.
also experiencing gum problems. The new offering provides dual
relief for sensitivity and bleeding gums, all in one daily toothpaste.
It launched in over 30 markets including the UK and Turkey.
1 Based on Nicholas Hall's DB6 Global OTC Database 2018.
GSK Annual Report 2019 27Consumer Healthcare continued
Building industry-leading capabilities Through our research, we found that consumers in India
Our Consumer Sensory Labs around the world enable us and China are increasingly looking for products that combine
to listen to, understand and meet the needs of consumers. science and natural or traditional approaches. Leveraging
Every year, we carry out research involving around 10,000 these insights we developed Sensodyne Herbal Multi-Care
consumers either in one of our three Consumer Sensory toothpaste for the relief of sensitive teeth which captures the
Labs or in consumers’ homes to gain deeper understanding flavours of eucalyptus and fennel.
of consumer reactions to products during the development
The increasing use of digital technology is revolutionising the
process to help improve our brands and develop new ones.
way consumers buy and use healthcare products. We are using
In 2019, we added a Consumer Sensory Lab facility in the the joint venture with Pfizer as an opportunity to further build our
US through our joint venture and during 2020, we plan to digital innovation capabilities and evolve our Digital Innovation
open a new Lab in China to further enhance our capabilities. Hub. The team will develop innovations that are focused on
creating platforms and business models that will meet the
future healthcare needs of consumers.
Performance
Consumer Healthcare sales in 2019 were £8,995 million, up Creating a world-leading Consumer Healthcare company
17% AER and 17% CER. On a pro-forma basis, sales grew 2%, Since completing the transaction with Pfizer to create a new
driven by strong performance in the oral health category, partly Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture on 31 July 2019, we have
offset by a decline in skin health. Mid year we completed the joint made good progress towards integrating the two businesses.
venture with Pfizer, creating a leading Consumer Healthcare On Day 1 of the joint venture, we completed legal closes in 15
business. markets, including our two biggest markets, the US and China,
all together accounting for more than 80% of Pfizer Consumer
We are leveraging the joint venture integration as a catalyst to
Healthcare revenues. Following the close, no business continuity
accelerate growth and drive innovation. We are sharpening our
issues or significant employee experience issues were reported,
strategic resource allocation to ensure we focus our investments
and we completed the appointment of approximately 500 critical
on the right markets and brands so that we can generate the
leadership roles. By the end of 2019 we completed legal closes
strongest growth and highest returns. Our power brand portfolio
of the joint venture in 40% of the local markets and continue to
has expanded with the addition of Advil and Centrum alongside
work towards local closes in remaining markets during 2020.
our seven other power brands including Sensodyne, Voltaren
and Theraflu. Our local star brands are geographically At the same time as announcing the joint venture, we announced
concentrated in one or more key markets, such as TUMS, our intention to separate Consumer Healthcare via a demerger
Emergen-C and ChapStick in the US, or Caltrate and Fenbid within around three years of closing the transaction. Through the
in China. Together, power brands and local stars will drive ‘Future Ready’ programme, planning work has begun to prepare
performance of Consumer Healthcare and reinforce our global for our future separation and is focused on building the key
leadership in pain relief, respiratory, wellness and therapeutic technology infrastructure and support functions necessary to
oral health. operate as a standalone company. This work will continue in
parallel with integration of the joint venture and delivery of
We are redefining our operating model to reflect the global and
planned savings.
local nature of our brands, moving accountabilities and decision
making closer to consumers and customers to accelerate our We are on track to deliver £0.5 billion synergies by 2022.
speed to market and leverage the scale and expertise of our Synergies are expected to be achieved from a number of areas,
global portfolio. We are also investing in key capabilities such including network rationalisation, logistics and infrastructure,
as digital, data and analytics, and sustainability, to unlock growth advertising and marketing, sales and distribution and functional
and ensure that we meet the expectations of consumers and support. Up to 25% of the cost savings generated are intended
customers. to be reinvested in the joint venture to support innovation and
other growth opportunities. Overall, the Consumer Healthcare
joint venture is targeting an adjusted operating margin
percentage in the mid-to-high 20s by 2022.
Work is continuing to secure required regulatory approvals for
the proposed sale of Horlicks and other consumer health food
drinks brands to Unilever, as announced in December 2018
following a strategic review of our nutrition portfolio. We are also
progressing with the proposed merger of our 72.5% stake in
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Limited in India with
Hindustan Unilever Limited, which would allow Hindustan
Unilever Limited to sell and distribute our OTC and oral health
brands in India through a distribution arrangement. The
transaction is expected to be finalised around the end of
Q1 2020, subject to approvals.
28 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Consumer Healthcare continued
Leading for growth Winning with shoppers, customers and experts
As we create our new business, we are evolving our culture Expert endorsement builds trust in our brands and drives
to put consumers and customers at the heart of every decision shopper purchase decisions. Sensodyne retains its unequalled
we take, build leadership capabilities and drive performance. number one leadership position with dentists as a brand
In the second half of 2019, we took steps to define the recommended most often for sensitivity in 70% of markets
behaviours and mindsets required to embed effective decision in which we compete. Of our OTC brands, 70% are sold in
making, clarity of accountability and courageous straight talk. pharmacies. We continued to prioritise our relationships with
Our top 100 leaders are building strong ownership and dentists and pharmacists and to invest in information that
are acting as culture ambassadors across the business. supports our products. In 2019, our expert sales representatives
We deployed a streamlined decision making tool designed called on 400,000 dentists in over 90 markets to share relevant
to help identify the single point of accountability, and we plan science-based information.
to roll this out during 2020. We have also implemented High
We have Shopper Science Labs in the UK, US and Singapore
Performing Team development programmes to around 91 of our
that use state-of-the-art technology to track shopper behaviour
most senior leadership teams, with an emphasis on straight talk
in real time to provide us with rich insights on consumers’
and decision making. We are actively listening and taking action
shopping habits around the world. We have additional satellite
on employee feedback and on the perception and evolution of
lab facilities located in Canada, South Africa and Mexico and
our culture, integration planning and engagement through our
by the headquarters of our major US retail partners.
quarterly Consumer Healthcare Pulse surveys and the annual
GSK employee survey (see pages 35 to 36). In 2019, we leveraged our Shopper Science Labs to strengthen
our customer relationships, developing an ecommerce
Digital transformation
evaluation tool that enables us to overlay digital content and
By putting digital technology at the heart of our business,
integrate digital prototyping tools with key retailer websites,
we aim to deliver more meaningful interactions with consumers,
including Amazon.com and Tesco.com, to simulate a realistic
fuel brand growth and achieve efficiency savings. In 2019, we
ecommerce shopping experience with shoppers.
continued to accelerate our digital transformation and prioritise
building our digital capabilities, including hiring expert new talent. Creating a simpler, competitive supply chain
We continue to drive strong improvement in service to our
We launched a three-year Asia Pacific Digital Accelerator
customers with continued excellent on-time, in-full service levels.
programme to drive sales through digital commerce and promote
This has allowed our supply chain to focus on opportunities
a digital-first culture within the region. The programme integrates
for driving more value for the business, consumers and the
external digital experts into GSK Consumer Healthcare’s team
environment by eliminating waste, packaging and costs.
in different countries across Asia Pacific to enhance digital
capabilities, build internal capacity and embed agile ways The joint venture has provided a renewed focus on cost saving
of working. initiatives with a leaner structure in non-manufacturing site teams
to drive synergy savings and increase speed of decision making.
We have made progress transforming our marketing model and
This includes the optimisation of our manufacturing network
capabilities in strategically important areas, most notably through
– consolidating and maximising capacity in our own sites and
the creation of the cutting-edge marketing services team which
streamlining the number of contract manufacturers (CMOs) we
leverages technology solutions, data and strategic partnerships
use to ensure we have the right balance of trusted, cost-efficient
to provide specialist marketing capabilities at scale to improve
manufacturing, with clear business continuity plans in place
the quality and effectiveness of marketing campaigns.
to manage supply stability. During 2019, we announced the
By combining our anonymised first-party data with Google’s closure of Agbara, Nigeria and Dehiwala, Sri Lanka.
second-party data and leveraging additional technology
In our supply chain, we have consolidated accountability
platforms, we identify signals that help us target specific
for end-to-end operations in our Regions and built closer
audiences, based on their behaviours, with dynamic and
partnerships with the local commercial and R&D teams to drive
relevant content across media platforms.
local innovation and significantly improve supply chain agility.
We have rolled out a new technology platform in 92 markets Making more products, more frequently, in smaller batches,
which enables us to track media spend in real time, enabling allows for less inventory, and enables us to respond more
us to optimise campaign performance, target audiences with quickly and effectively to changing consumer demand.
greater precision and create valuable first party data. Together,
the insights provided through these platforms are delivering an
improved consumer experience with more personalised content
and efficiency savings.
GSK Annual Report 2019 29Trust
Trust is one of our three long-term priorities and is essential to how we
achieve our purpose, drive long-term growth and add value for society
and our shareholders.
Our commitments on Trust
Our purpose is to help people do more, feel better and live longer
Using our science and Making our products Being a modern
technology to address affordable and available employer
health needs
New medical innovations Pricing Engaged people
Develop differentiated, high-quality Improve the health of millions of Achieve and maintain a competitive
and needed medicines, vaccines people each year by making our employee engagement score by
and consumer healthcare products products available at responsible 2022
to improve health prices that are sustainable for our
Inclusion and diversity
business
Global health Accelerate our progress on inclusion
Improve global health impact through Product reach and diversity, aiming for over 37%
R&D for infectious diseases that Use access strategies to reach female representation in senior roles
affect children and young people 800 million underserved people and recognition in global LGBT+
in developing countries focusing in developing countries with our indices, by 2022
on HIV, malaria and TB products by 2025
Health, wellbeing and development
Health security Healthcare access Be a leading company in how we
Help the world to better prepare Partner to improve disease support employee health, wellbeing
for future disease outbreaks with prevention, awareness and access and personal development
pandemic potential, and tackle to healthcare services by 12 million
antimicrobial resistance people by 2025
Being a responsible business
Reliable supply Ethics and values Data and engagement Environment
Commit to quality, safety Operate an ethical, values- Use data responsibly and Reduce our environmental
and reliable supply of our driven culture, in which any transparently. Improve impact by one quarter by
products for patients and issues are responded to patient and scientific 2030
consumers swiftly and transparently engagement
Society has high expectations of businesses, with people These commitments seek to address the most material topics
rightly expecting companies to behave responsibly and relevant to our stakeholders and to our business, and are
contribute to tackling societal challenges. Operating designed to help us respond to challenges and opportunities
responsibly brings direct benefits to society but also creates within our industry and society more broadly (see pages
value for our shareholders. It supports our ability to attract 12 to 14). They contribute to many of the UN Sustainable
and retain talent, manage costs and build trust with patients Development Goals (SDGs). As a science-led, global
and consumers, our customers, payers and stakeholders healthcare company, our biggest contribution is towards Goal
who influence our licence to operate. We have mechanisms 3: ensure healthy lives and promote well being for all at all ages.
to help us identify and respond to our different stakeholder
Our Corporate Responsibility (CR) Committee forms an
groups (summarised on pages 15 to 16).
important part of the Board’s oversight of our Trust priority. The
The 13 commitments detailed above support our Trust Committee provides ongoing scrutiny on progress against our
priority in driving progress in the key areas where we can commitments and how the company is addressing the evolving
make a significant impact, and ensuring that we are running views and expectations of our broad range of stakeholders.
our business in a responsible way.
The Corporate Executive Team and senior management oversee
implementation of our Trust commitments and report regularly
to the CR Committee (see pages 109 to 110).
30 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Trust continued
External benchmarking Our approach to reporting
– DJSI: top of the pharmaceutical industry group for the 2019 In this Trust section, we report progress against our 13
Dow Jones Sustainability Index. commitments. We also publish online detailed information on
– ATMI: top of the Access to Medicine Index, and leading the our contribution to the SDGs, along with an ESG performance
industry in the 2020 Antimicrobial Resistance Benchmark. summary with current and historical data, and our UN Global
Compact Communication on Progress, Global Reporting
– FTSE4Good: member of the FTSE4Good Index since 2004.
Initiative index, Sustainability Accounting Standards Board
– CDP: in 2019 received a score of ‘B’ in CDP Climate index and assurance statements.
Change and CDP Water, and named CDP Supplier
Engagement Leader. GSK.com: Responsibility reports and data • Our contribution to the SDGs
Science and technology
We are committed to using our science and technology to In 2019, the final phase IIb results of our candidate vaccine,
address health needs. Innovation is at the core of who we are developed in partnership with IAVI, confirmed primary findings
and what we do, and we have a unique opportunity to impact that the vaccine candidate showed reduced risk of developing
global health – from the prevention and treatment of infectious pulmonary TB by half in HIV-negative adults with latent TB
diseases to urgent public health threats, such as the growing infection. In January 2020, we announced the licensing of this
resistance to antibiotics. asset to the Bill & Melinda Gates Medical Research Institute
for its continued development for low income countries with
New medical innovations
high TB burden, in line with our global health strategy.
The biggest impact that we can have as a science-led, global
healthcare company is to successfully discover and develop We have a world-leading portfolio of first-in-class medicines
innovative products. We are using cutting-edge science and for TB, spanning different mechanisms. In combination with
technology to develop differentiated, high-quality and needed other medicines, these may be contenders to transform the
medicines, vaccines and consumer healthcare products to TB landscape as part of a new TB regimen that is effective in
improve health. Read more about innovation within our three all patients, even those with resistance to the currently-available
businesses on pages 17, 23, and 27. TB medicines.
Global health In February 2020, we joined the Partnership to Accelerate
Our commitment is to improve our global health impact through New TB Treatments (PAN-TB). This collaboration, involving
R&D for infectious diseases that affect children and young other companies and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation,
people in developing countries focusing on HIV, malaria and TB. aims to accelerate the development of a treatment course for
Our early discovery work also allows us to pursue promising any form of TB, even multi-drug resistant forms of the infection,
scientific leads in other developing world diseases, such as and create a course that is shorter, less complicated, and easier
Chagas disease, leishmaniasis and sleeping sickness. to tolerate than existing options.
We need to ensure a sustainable, collaborative model for Malaria
translating scientific discoveries into benefit for the most Our work to fight malaria ranges from developing medicines and
vulnerable patients. To ensure the ongoing sustainability vaccines to working with partners to strengthen health systems.
of our investment in global health science, and in the interests
Our RTS,S vaccine is the first vaccine to help protect children
of products reaching patients more quickly, we seek
against the deadliest form of malaria, P. falciparum. In 2019,
development partnerships. Where appropriate, to maximise
the WHO-coordinated pilot implementation programme led
impact we transfer our technology to third party organisations
by local ministries of health, and in partnership with PATH and
with the right capability and focus. For example, in 2019 we
GSK, launched in selected regions of Malawi, Ghana and
transferred our Ebola and Marburg vaccine candidates to
Kenya. Every year until 2023, at least 360,000 children are
the Sabin Vaccines Institute. We believe these transfers
expected to receive the vaccine. We have committed to
will help ensure that the vaccine candidate technologies
donating up to 10 million doses and are undertaking additional
can be developed faster and more efficiently brought to
post-approval pharmacovigilance, effectiveness and impact
those who need them.
studies. We are currently working with the WHO and PATH,
Tuberculosis Gavi and other potential funders to ensure a sustainable supply
TB is the leading cause of death through infectious disease of the vaccine for a potential broad implementation beyond
worldwide and represents a significant public health threat. the pilot.
An effective vaccine against TB will have a marked impact
Tafenoquine (Krintafel/Kozenis), our single dose radical cure
on the disease’s control – including drug-resistant TB –
treatment for P. vivax malaria, developed in partnership with
through interruption of transmission. It will also help to
Medicines for Malaria Venture, received regulatory approval
achieve the World Health Organization (WHO) target
in malaria endemic countries Brazil, in 2019, and Thailand,
of ending the TB epidemic by 2035.
in early 2020.
GSK Annual Report 2019 31Trust continued
HIV Health security
Through ViiV Healthcare, we are committed to developing We are using our vaccines, medicines and scientific know-how
and delivering HIV treatment formulations optimised specifically to help the world better prepare for future disease outbreaks with
for infants and children under the age of 15. This is driven by pandemic potential, and to tackle antimicrobial resistance (AMR).
the WHO-led Paediatric ARV Drug Optimisation priorities.
Pandemic preparedness
In 2019, we continued to progress our clinical development GSK is committed to playing our part to prepare for, and
programmes for paediatric formulations of dolutegravir, respond to, pandemics. We work with governments to support
in partnership with the International Maternal Paediatric their pandemic readiness plans, and we support the Pandemic
Adolescent AIDS Clinical Trials Network and the Paediatric Influenza Preparedness Agreement adopted by WHO member
European Network for Treatment of AIDS. states in 2011. In the event of a declared pandemic, we will
provide the WHO with real-time access to our pandemic
In December 2019, we filed FDA and EU regulatory
influenza vaccines and antivirals for the world’s poorest
submissions, seeking approval of the first-ever 5mg
countries. These commitments are a combination of donations
dispersible-tablet formulation of dolutegravir, as well as
and tiered prices depending on the country’s gross national
a simplified dosing regimen to optimise use of the existing
income (GNI). GSK supports the WHO’s pandemic
dolutegravir 50mg film-coated tablet in paediatric HIV patients.
preparedness activities, including the Global Influenza
These submissions will be the gateway to regulatory
Surveillance and Response System – a worldwide network
submissions in low- and middle-income countries, as well
able to rapidly identify and respond to influenza outbreaks
as providing regulatory references for generic manufacturers
including those with pandemic potential.
to register their paediatric formulations under voluntary
licensing agreements. In February 2020 GSK announced two new collaborations
to make our established pandemic vaccine adjuvant platform
Through our public-private partnership with the Clinton
technology available to enhance the global efforts to develop a
Health Access Initiative, Unitaid and two generic manufacturers
vaccine against the 2019 novel coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2). The
(Mylan and Macleods), we are expediting the development,
use of an adjuvant, which is added to some vaccines to enhance
registration and market entry of generic formulations of
the immune response, is of particular importance in a pandemic
paediatric dolutegravir in resource-limited settings. The aim
situation since it can reduce the amount of antigen required per
of this project is to reduce the gap between our dispersible
dose, allowing more vaccine doses to be produced and made
tablet formulation being available and the generic dispersible
available to more people. The first collaboration announced is
tablet formulations being available to children in developing
with the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI)
countries to months rather than years.
and the University of Queensland, and the second collaboration
Other developing world diseases is with China-based Clover Biopharmaceuticals.
We pursue the most promising scientific leads in other areas
Addressing antimicrobial resistance
beyond TB, malaria and HIV, both within GSK and through our
AMR is one of the biggest health challenges facing the world.
Tres Cantos Open Lab in Spain and GSK Vaccines Institute
We are playing a leading role in the industry’s response and
for Global Health (GVGH) in Italy.
GSK once again ranked first in the Access to Medicine
The Tres Cantos Open Lab furthers R&D for diseases in the Foundation’s 2020 AMR Benchmark for our 2019 performance.
developing world by offering external researchers the potential
Vaccines play a critical role in avoiding the need for antibiotics,
to access GSK’s compound library, screening tools and
by preventing bacterial, viral and other infections. Our vaccines
scientific expertise. As well as supporting research into TB
against diseases such as diphtheria, meningitis, pneumonia
and malaria, projects include neglected tropical diseases
and pertussis have protected tens of millions of individuals from
such as Chagas disease, leishmaniasis and sleeping sickness.
bacterial infections, which are major drivers of direct antibiotic
The GVGH aims to discover effective and affordable vaccines prescribing.
for high-burden infectious diseases in developing countries.
In addition, our vaccines for non-bacterial infections, like
Around 40 scientists focus on translating laboratory concepts
influenza, rotavirus and malaria, can also prevent unnecessary
into high-quality vaccines. Current areas of work include
or avoidable prescribing of antibiotics due to secondary
shigella, invasive nontyphoidal salmonella, typhoid and
infections. We are committed to researching and developing
paratyphoid fever, and Group A streptococcus.
new vaccines to prevent and mitigate AMR infections and
In February 2020, the Indian health regulatory authorities reduce avoidable antibiotic use.
approved a new vaccine to help protect children against
We are one of only a few pharmaceutical companies who
typhoid fever. This had first been developed by the GVGH
actively research and develop new antibiotics to treat resistant
and then transferred in 2013 to Indian vaccine company,
infections. In our Pharmaceutical pipeline, gepotidacin is the
Biological E, once proof-of-concept had been demonstrated.
first in a new chemical class of antibiotics with a mechanism
This is the first licensing of a vaccine created in the GVGH’s
distinct from any currently approved antibiotic. This progressed
labs and successfully further developed and brought to market
to phase III clinical research in October 2019 and is being
through an effective partnership.
studied to treat patients with uncomplicated urinary tract
GSK.com: Inside the GVGH infection and urogenital gonorrhoea, many of whom contract
strains resistant to existing treatments.
32 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Trust continued
However, R&D for many other types of bacterial infections is Through our Survey of Antibiotic Resistance (SOAR)
not economically sustainable under current market conditions. programme, we analyse antibiotic resistance at a local level.
Governments recognise the need for financial support. We share our findings with healthcare professionals (HCPs)
We have partnered with the US Government’s Biomedical and public health bodies to inform the development of local
Advanced Research and Development Authority and the antibiotic prescribing guidelines. We are one of the few
Defense Threat Reduction Agency. We also support public- companies sharing our AMR surveillance data publicly, through
private partnerships that aim to speed up the discovery and the open data platform run by the Wellcome Trust and Open
development of new medicines to treat or prevent resistant Data Institute. In addition, in 2019 we trained 32,841 HCPs
bacterial infections through collaboration and capability across 65 countries on the appropriate use of antibiotics.
building. In 2019, we started to implement the new global limits for
reducing antibiotic discharge from manufacturing into the
environment across our own antibiotic factories and suppliers.
We are on track to meet these new global limits by the end
of 2021. For more on how we address pharmaceuticals
in the environment see the Environment section on page 41.
GSK.com: Preparing for future disease threats
Affordability and availability
We are making our products affordable and available to more In 2019, we provided prescribed medicines and vaccines
people around the world through responsible pricing, and to over 123,000 eligible uninsured patients through our
strategic access programmes and partnerships. Patient Assistance Programme.
Pricing In Europe, we engage with governments and payers to work
We aim to improve the health of millions of people each year towards sustainable health systems that support ongoing
by making our products available at responsible prices that innovation. For example, the pricing of Trelegy Ellipta reflects
are sustainable for our business. economic value by demonstrating cost-effectiveness and
innovation within an acceptable budget, and offering a potential
We recognise that pricing of pharmaceutical medicines and
cost-saving compared with alternatives.
vaccines is an important issue in both developed and developing
countries, and we understand patient and payer concerns In developing countries, we use innovative pricing structures
about affordability. When setting the price of our medicines as part of our access strategies to extend product reach
in developed markets, we apply a value-based approach to (see pages 33 to 34). Our tiered pricing model for vaccines, for
balance reward for innovation with access and affordability. example, is based on four widely recognised World Bank GNI
country classifications of high income, upper middle income,
We aim to bring truly differentiated, innovative products that
lower middle income and low income. Price ceilings and price
bring highly-effective health outcomes for patients and payers,
floors exist for each tier, with ceilings and floors progressively
so that even those products with a high cost will bring value
decreasing through the tiers from high to low income countries.
to patients and healthcare systems. By investing in genetics,
genomics, big data and AI we are accelerating the pace at In least developed and low-income countries, we do not file
which we develop transformational medicines, prioritising those patents for our medicines, and do not enforce historic patents.
molecules with a higher probability of success – we know that This allows generic companies to manufacture and supply
genetically-validated drug candidates are twice as likely to generic versions of GSK medicines in those countries.
become registered medicines, improving the productivity
GSK.com: Pricing and access strategies
of our R&D investment.
We price our medicines according to the value and outcomes Product reach
they bring to patients, providers and payers, while being We aim to use access strategies to reach 800 million
sensitive to market and societal expectations. underserved people in developing countries with our products
by 2025. These strategies include tiered pricing, product
In the US, the pricing of all our product launches – including our
donations and voluntary licensing agreements to extend access
most recent launches of Dovato, Nucala Autoinjector, Trelegy
through generic manufacturers. Since we set the target in 2018,
Ellipta, Shingrix and Juluca – incorporate specific market
our products have reached over 192 million people through
dynamics unique to the product, as well as the profile of the new
these access strategies.2
medicine or vaccine in the context of existing treatment options.
Over the last five years, the average net price1 for our products Our tiered pricing principles mean that we reserve our lowest
in the US has fallen by 4% per year while the average list price vaccines prices for organisations such as Gavi, the Vaccine
rose by 6.4% per year. In 2019, the average net price across our Alliance, which supports countries with a GNI per head of less
US portfolio decreased by around 5% while the average list than $1,630. For example, our Rotarix vaccine is available in
price rose by 2.5%. At the product level, the largest single 3 9 Gavi countries to protect against rotavirus.
increase in list price taken was 5% and that resulted in
1 Price after discounts, rebates or other allowances.
a 4.2% increase in net price. We offer various types of patient
2 Total excludes reach through albendazole donations which
assistance to help ensure appropriate access to our medicines. will be assessed in 2025.
GSK Annual Report 2019 33Trust continued
In 2019, we provided our pneumococcal vaccine, Synflorix, to Through our partnerships with Americares, Direct Relief,
10 Gavi-eligible countries at a discounted price, reaching over IHP UK and MAP International, nearly 178,000 units of GSK
20 million people.1 We are committed to delivering 720 million medicines were distributed for humanitarian and emergency
doses of Synflorix to Gavi via the current Advanced Market response in 51 countries.
Commitments contract.
GSK.com: Pricing and access strategies
In 2019, we distributed around 120,000 doses of our vaccine
Healthcare access
Cervarix in Zimbabwe in support of its multi-age cohort
We aim to partner to improve disease prevention, awareness
vaccination programme protecting around 54,000 girls against
and access to healthcare services for 12 million people by 2025.
human papillomavirus.1 We also delivered over 200 million
Since we set the target in 2018 we have reached nearly 8 million
doses of oral polio vaccine to UNICEF in support of the Global
people through these partnerships.
Polio Eradication Initiative, reaching over 40 million children.1
Since 2010, ViiV Healthcare has invested over £60 million into
We continue to innovate to help improve access to vaccines
more than 750 Positive Action grants to address HIV stigma
in low-resource settings, and in 2020, we introduced the
and support HIV education and prevention. In 2019 alone, our
new multi-monodose blow-fill seal presentation of our vaccine
Positive Action for Children programme directly reached almost
against rotavirus. This was introduced for the first time, in
640,000 people. We are committed to supporting partnerships
Myanmar, with the support of Gavi. This new presentation
to end AIDS and further ViiV Healthcare’s mission of leaving no
helps reduce cold chain volume by 30%, resulting in lower
person living with HIV behind.
cold chain and transportation costs.
We are partnering with Comic Relief to complement our
In July 2019, ViiV Healthcare marked the fifth anniversary
efforts to combat malaria through R&D (see page 31). We have
of its voluntary licensing agreements with the Medicines Patent
25 projects in Africa and South East Asia which aim to improve
Pool and Aurobindo Pharma. These agreements currently allow
malaria awareness and prevention efforts, and get treatment
18 generic manufacturers to produce and sell low cost single
to the people who need it. Together, through partnerships with
or fixed dose combination products containing dolutegravir for
local and international organisations, we reached more than
adults and children in countries with the highest burden of HIV.
1.1 million people in 2019, including health workers, private
This totals 94 and 121 countries for the adult and paediatric
providers, and vulnerable populations such as pregnant
agreements respectively, in addition to any country where
women and children under five.
there is no granted patent in force. By the end of 2019, at
least 6.9 million people living with HIV, across 85 countries In 2019, through our partnerships with Amref Health Africa,
in the developing world, had access to a generic dolutegravir- CARE International and Save the Children, we helped to train
containing product, made possible because of these licensing over 18,000 frontline health workers, and approximately two
agreements. million people were directly reached with a health worker,
healthcare service or health facility.2
In 2019, ViiV Healthcare continued to donate several
antiretroviral medicines to Venezuela, a country facing a Our partnership with Save the Children aims to help reduce
profound shortage of basic medicines. We were the first child mortality. In 2019, the partnership reached approximately
pharmaceutical company to donate antiretrovirals to the 114,000 children under five (almost 3 million children since
people living with HIV in this humanitarian crisis. Since February 2013) with interventions including: widening immunisation
2018 we have donated over 275,000 packs of antiretrovirals. coverage, accelerating access treatments and strengthening
GSK has also donated over 360,000 vaccines to Colombia healthcare systems. In 2019, we also launched a new
to protect Venezuelan migrants in transit or residing in the programme in Nigeria focused on preventing infectious
national territory against rotavirus, pneumococcus, diphtheria, disease in children.
pertussis and tetanus. In 2019, 3,500 children received free, life-changing surgery
Since 1999, we have donated over 9 billion albendazole tablets and comprehensive cleft care through our partnership with
to the WHO – including 890 million in 2019 – to support efforts Smile Train. Together with the World Dental Federation and
to end lymphatic filariasis (LF) and control intestinal worms Smile Train, we have launched a new two-year project to
(soil transmitted helminths) in school-age children. This has improve oral health guidance and ongoing care for children
benefited patients in 92 countries around the world. GSK with clefts. In India, we also funded the Smile Train Toll-Free
remains committed to continuing to donate albendazole tablets Cleft help-line, which provides people with information about
until LF is eliminated as a public health problem globally. cleft treatment and support.
1 People reached/protected is calculated by dividing the total number
of doses supplied to Gavi or UNICEF by the number of doses needed
to complete a full schedule of vaccination allowing for WHO estimates
of wastage.
2 Health worker data is estimated based on 2018 reach through the same
partner programmes and level of funding. Final 2019 data is expected
to be available in April 2020.
34 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Trust continued
Our Allied Against Dengue campaign in India and South Our global contribution to community health programmes
East Asia was created to bring together key stakeholders amounted to £263 million1 in 2019. This includes cash, product
and partners to prevent and treat outbreaks of dengue fever, donations and the volunteering time of our employees to help
a potentially fatal mosquito-borne disease. In 2019, we improve healthcare access.
trained over 3,700 healthcare workers and reached over
GSK.com: Prevention, awareness and infrastructure
147,000 people through a range of programmes to mobilise
ViiVHealthcare.com: Positive Action programmes
communities and promote behaviour change.
Modern employer
As a modern employer, we believe that a strong employee We are committed to improving ethnic representation at
experience is critical to attract, retain and motivate the all levels in GSK, and work with our new ethnicity council
best people to support our business now and in the future. to remove barriers, increase understanding and ensure
We launched our modern employer ambition in 2018, focusing equal opportunities.
on inclusion and diversity, health and wellbeing and employee
Our goal is to be recognised in global LGBT+ indices and
development. The aim is to ensure our people are empowered
in 2019 LGBT+ rights group, Stonewall, recognised GSK
to be themselves, feel good and keep growing at GSK.
in its Top Global Employers list. In the UK, Stonewall also
Engaged people named our employee resource group for LGBT+ employees
Employee engagement is an important barometer to gauge how and allies as the best in the UK. In the US, GSK was named
our people feel about working at GSK. We aim to achieve and Best Place to Work for LGBT equality for the fourth consecutive
maintain a competitive employee engagement score by 2022. year in Human Rights Campaign’s Corporate Equality Index.
We survey our employees to get feedback about how we In addition, we are signatories to the UK Department for
are doing on our long-term priorities and culture change. International Development’s Charter for Change, joining other
In 2019, we had a good response rate for both surveys organisations with a common aim to ensure rights, freedoms,
(81% in April and 78% in September) and we achieved dignity and inclusion for people with disabilities.
our highest engagement score in ten years in April (80%),
Gender diversity
and maintained a strong score in September (78%).
Our goal is that by 2022 we will have over 37% female
We continue to drive engagement through Let’s Talk sessions representation in senior roles.
with our executive teams and Workplace – our collaborative
The percentage of women in management has continued
online platform. This enables two-way informal communication
to rise at GSK. In 2019, women represented 47% of all
and collaboration, discussing topics that matter to both
management roles (45% in 2018), and 36% of senior
employees and GSK, sharing knowledge and perspectives
management roles – VP and above – up from 33% in 2018.
to support greater understanding and faster, more effective
The latest Hampton-Alexander Review of FTSE 100 companies
decision-making across the organisation. In any given month,
found that GSK had the third highest proportion of women on
71% of our employees are actively connecting to the platform
the Board (an increase from sixth in 2018) with 45.5% female
to get their work done and 77% are reading content from the
representation. It also found that we had exceeded the target
company and business unit groups.
of 33% women on the Board and in the direct reports to the
Inclusion and diversity Corporate Executive Team.
We believe strongly in inclusion and diversity. Not only is it the
GSK is one of 12 prominent healthcare and life science
right way to do business, but it also leads to business success,
companies to join the Healthcare Businesswomen’s Association
unleashing the enormous potential of the differing knowledge,
Gender Parity Collaborative in the US. This was launched in
experiences and styles of our people, enhancing our ability to
2018 to foster measurable gender parity progress in the industry.
respond to the differing needs of our patients and consumers.
We are improving gender balance by encouraging and
Our employees should be able to bring their authentic selves
supporting more women to develop as leaders. In 2019, we
to work. We were encouraged by the results of our employee
provided 130 high-performing female managers with coaching
survey in September 2019, which included the question
and support through our Accelerating Difference programme.
‘I can be my authentic self when working at GSK’ which
We also recruit and support women early in their careers, with
received a favourable score of 76%, and 81% said that
women representing 38% of our apprentices and 58% of our
they feel respected at work.
graduates in 2019. As a result of our efforts to develop our
At GSK, we have four diversity councils (covering gender, female employees during the year, three women from GSK were
ethnicity, LGBT+ and disability), each chaired by an executive included in the Women’s Engineering Society Top 50 Women
team member. The councils support our inclusion and diversity in Engineering: current and former apprentices, and GSK
agenda, with input from our employee resource groups. India was named by Avtar as among the best companies
for women to work for.
1 Figure includes contributions from the Tesaro portfolio.
GSK Annual Report 2019 35Trust continued
We have a long-standing commitment to fair and equal pay. We consider mental wellbeing to be just as important as
We conduct country-based reviews and ensure all markets physical wellbeing and raised awareness of this issue on
have clear guidance, tools and support to ensure pay equity. World Mental Health Day, encouraging people to seek
If unexplainable differences are detected, these are addressed support through our 24-hour, confidential Employee Assistance
through our compensation processes. Programme and other resources. We have also launched
‘Mental Health Matters’ training for line managers. This is
We published our third UK gender pay gap report for 2019. Our
helping them to increase their awareness, skills and knowledge,
gender pay gap for all permanent UK-based GSK employees is
so they can better support their teams.
2.43% (mean), outperforming the national average of 16.2%. We
remain committed to improving gender balanced representation Preventing injuries and illnesses at work is also fundamental
and the application of fair and equitable pay practices to ensure to our people’s health and wellbeing. Approximately 20,000
equal opportunities and equal pay for equal work. employees drive on company sales business and in 2019,
unfortunately one of our commercial salesforce died in a motor
Women in management (%)
vehicle accident in Kenya. To try to prevent these sorts of tragic
2019 2018 2017 2016
accidents from happening, we run a driver safety programme
SVP/VP 36 33 31 30
to help employees protect themselves and their families,
Director 44 43 43 42
combining online learning with practical road safety activities.
Manager 49 48 47 46 In 2019, roughly 19,000 drivers across 65 countries were
All employees 47 45 44 43 trained on driver safety. Our reportable injury and illness rate
continued to decline from 0.23 per 100,000 hours worked
Employees by gender (number)
in 2018, to 0.22 in 2019. This remains comparable with
Male Female Total
other leading companies in our sector.
Board 6 5 11
Employee development
Management* 9,861 8,619 18,480
We want our people to keep growing at every stage of their
All employees 54,690 44,747 99,437
working lives.
* Management: senior managers as defined in the Companies Act 2006
(Strategic Report and Directors’ Report) Regulations 2013 which includes We expect all of our employees to have a development plan
persons responsible for planning, directing or controlling the activities agreed with their manager. To support our employees to take
of the company, or a strategically significant part of the company, other
ownership of their development, all employees have access
than the Board, including directors, or undertakings included in the
consolidated accounts. to a new development portal with resources that are most
Health, wellbeing and development relevant to their roles, development needs and interests.
We aim to be a leading company in supporting employee health, In addition, GSK continues to meet its commitment as a
wellbeing and development. member of the 5% Club, a group of UK companies committed
Health and wellbeing to hiring young people in development programmes into at
Our global, comprehensive preventive healthcare package for least 5% of UK roles. We currently have 799 people on
our employees – and their eligible dependants – includes up our graduate and MBA programmes globally and 398 in
to 40 preventative healthcare services at little or no extra cost apprenticeships in UK, US, Canada, Ireland, Singapore
to participants. We provide programmes to help our people and Belgium.
take control of their health, manage their energy levels and We have a strong focus on improving the effectiveness of our
adopt healthier behaviours. people managers. One80 is part of our performance system
In 2019, more than 15,000 employees took part in our and is critical to holding managers accountable for how they
energy and resilience programmes. We also expanded our manage the performance and development of their team.
personalised digital health platform from the original 5,000 Employees provide feedback on their manager through
employees in Belgium, to over 10,000 employees in Singapore, 14 questions which measure leadership effectiveness in
Mexico, Spain, France, Switzerland, Australia and New Zealand. three key areas: knowing their people, delivering results and
maximising potential. In 2019, 9,000 managers participated
We understand how important it is that employees have
in One80 and more than 60,000 employees provided
flexibility to manage their lives, so everyone can thrive and
feedback to their manager.
do great things at work and home. Our largest markets have
formal flexible working and carer policies and all our markets We also introduced a new leadership development programme
are reviewing their competitiveness in this area. Our aim for first-line leaders. This training consists of five virtual modules,
is to differentiate ourselves. For example, in 2019 the US with a strong emphasis on conversations that matter, developing
implemented care of family member paid leave, which is for performance, and leading high performing teams. The
above industry standards in the US. programme was piloted in 2019 with 845 leader participants.
The programme will be rolled out across GSK in 2020 in
For the fourth year in a row, GSK increased participation
support of continued leadership development.
levels in the Virgin Pulse Global Challenge with over 17,000
participants across 67 countries. We were once again named GSK.com: Employee engagement • Learning and development
the Most Active Organisation, with our people collectively
taking more than 20 billion steps.
36 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Trust continued
Reliable supply
Ensuring a high-quality, safe and reliable supply of our products In 2019, we conducted 1,542 audits of our suppliers’ quality
for patients and consumers is a priority for all three of our processes and 225 audits of clinical studies run by, or on behalf
businesses (see pages 22, 26 and 29). Product shortages can of GSK, to assess their quality and safety. Where we identify
happen for a variety of reasons, including supply disruptions areas that require improvement, we engage with the relevant third
and unexpected demand. parties to develop improvement plans and track their progress.
If significant issues are identified and remain unresolved, we
Our robust quality management systems support continuous
may choose to suspend or terminate work with a third party.
improvement, helping us to maintain high standards for product
quality and safety and comply with relevant regulations, Detecting, assessing, understanding and preventing adverse
including those on Good Manufacturing Practice, Good effects or any other drug-related problem (pharmacovigilance)
Laboratory Practice, Good Pharmacovigilance Practice is important in evaluating the safety of pharmaceutical products.
and Good Clinical Practice. Of the 196 external regulatory We work with the WHO and other partners to enhance systems
inspections at our Pharmaceutical, Vaccines and Consumer for reporting these. Through external collaborations such as
Healthcare manufacturing sites and local operating companies TransCelerate, the European Federation of Pharmaceutical
in 2019, most found no issues or resulted in only minor Industries and Associations and the Innovative Medicines
observations. We address every issue, however minor, Initiative, we are working with others to promote harmonised
and regulatory authorities have accepted our proposed approaches and procedures for the clinical development and
plans for corrective actions. safety evaluation of drugs, and to implement key regulations.
In late summer 2019, GSK was contacted by regulatory Counterfeit products present a risk to patient safety. We support
authorities regarding the detection of NDMA, a potential efforts to prevent the manufacture and distribution of counterfeit
human carcinogen, in Zantac (ranitidine) products. Based GSK products by working closely with government bodies,
on information received and correspondence with regulatory international organisations (such as the World Customs
authorities, GSK made the decision in mid-September to Organization and the WHO), customs authorities and industry
initiate a voluntary recall (pharmacy/retail level recall) of Zantac associations. We also conduct our own investigations and work
products in all markets as a precautionary action. Since then, with enforcement agencies to tackle counterfeit GSK products.
a number of recalls have been initiated by API suppliers, as well
GSK is implementing serialisation to drive traceability across
as other pharmaceutical companies who hold market authority
the supply chain. Through increased supply chain visibility and
in various countries, including the US. GSK discontinued
increased communications with government systems, we are
making and selling prescription Zantac tablets in 2017 and
helping both to raise the visibility of our products to prevent theft,
discontinued making and selling over-the-counter Zantac
counterfeiting and stock diversion, and also to allow our systems
in 1998 in the US. Several regulatory authorities have reviewed
to authenticate product at the point of dispense.
the findings and/or are conducting their own tests including
the FDA. We are continuing to work with them. GSK.com: Patient safety and reliable supply
Ethics and values
We are committed to creating an ethical, values-driven culture, Every GSK employee and complementary worker is required
in which any issues are responded to swiftly and transparently. to complete the Living Our Values and Expectations mandatory
We expect everyone at GSK to live our values and expectations, training annually. In 2019, 98.5% of our employees and 92.4%
speak up if they have any concerns, engage appropriately with of our complementary workers completed the training,
stakeholders and respect human rights. We also extend these covering content including our Code of Conduct, human
ethical expectations to the third parties with whom we work. safety information reporting and reporting misconduct.
Living our values and expectations Employees who fail to complete the course may face
Together, our values (patient focus, integrity, respect and disciplinary action, as defined and permitted by local
transparency) and expectations (courage, accountability, labour laws.
development and teamwork) help us to create the culture we
Throughout 2019, we assessed 17 different parts of the
want. In our 2019 employee survey, 86% of employees agreed
business against a values maturity matrix to understand
that their work environment encouraged ethical behaviour even
how well our values and expectations are embedded.
in the face of pressures to meet business objectives.
Additionally, individual areas of the business have been
using the insights from those assessments to inform plans
that further integrate our values into ways of working at GSK.
GSK Annual Report 2019 37Trust continued
Examples include increasing opportunities for engagement Political engagement
with leadership teams to improve trust, and strengthening Everyone working for, or on behalf of, GSK must follow our
our people managers’ capability to lead employees through Code of Conduct in their interactions with political stakeholders.
times of change while delivering at pace. Additionally, our selection process for public policy groups
includes criteria to ensure those groups share our values.
Our mandatory anti-bribery and corruption (ABAC) training
is more tailored, consisting of two modules – one for high-risk We spent $4.4 million on federal lobbying activities in the
employees and one for everyone else. Both modules focus US in 2019, which are registered on the US Federal Lobbying
on principles to help employees deepen their understanding Register. The spend includes the cost of operating our office in
of where ABAC risks may lie, recognising conflicts of interest, Washington DC, and the cost of travel and consulting. The cost
and how to report and mitigate any risks or conflicts. As of of representing our interests to EU institutions, published on the
December 2019, 97% of employees and 90% of contract EU Transparency Register, was €1.64 million.1 We also publish
workers completed ABAC training. a list of our memberships in trade associations that may lobby
indirectly on our behalf.
GSK.com: Ethics and values
GSK does not make corporate political contributions. Our
Reporting and investigating concerns
US employees may support individual candidates or political
We encourage people to speak up if they have any concerns groups financially through a Political Action Committee, which
relating to unethical conduct or behaviour that is inconsistent contributed $265,185 to state and federal candidates in 2019.
with our values – or if they simply want to ask a question about A breakdown of this spend is available online.
how to apply our Code of Conduct.
GSK.com: Public policy and patient advocacy • Trade association
Anyone inside or outside GSK can raise concerns or speak membership list • Criteria for working with Public Policy Groups
to an independent third party through our integrity lines,
Human rights
confidentially or anonymously, without fear of retaliation.
GSK is committed to upholding the Universal Declaration of
We take every reported concern very seriously and review
Human Rights and the core standards set out by the International
each one to understand whether a formal investigation is
Labour Organization. We strive to ensure that respect for human
warranted. If our investigations show that an employee has
rights is embedded and integrated across our global business
breached our policies, we take appropriate disciplinary action.
and conduct regular assessments, informed by external experts,
In 2019, 2,423 employees were accused of misconduct of the human rights impacts associated with our activities.
(2,842 in 2018). We reviewed all of these cases, and initiated
Building on the findings of our 2018 corporate-level human
1,891 formal investigations (1,805 in 2018) with most relating
rights assessment, over the past year we have focused on
to behaviour in the workplace. As a result, 798 employees were
strengthening our approach to managing labour rights risks
disciplined for policy violations (940 in 2018), of whom 202
in the supply chain. We carried out an initial review of labour
were dismissed or voluntarily left the organisation (115 in 2018)
rights risks associated with our sourcing activities and, with
and 596 received a documented warning (656 in 2018). In other
the support of fair labour NGO Verité, are now building on
instances, action short of a documented warning was taken.
this work to identify parts of our supply chain that represent
Employees disciplined in 2019: breakdown of types the greatest potential for modern slavery risks. We also updated
of policy violation (%) our third-party labour rights standards to include the expectation
Policy area 2019 2018 that recruitment costs should be borne by the employer and
Behaviour in the workplace 35% 17% that no worker should pay for a job (a practice that can lead to
Mandatory training completion 18% 29% forced labour).
Good manufacturing and distribution practices 17% 10% Progress in each of our other priority human rights areas
Marketing and promotional activities 8% 8% (access to healthcare, research practices, patient safety,
Expenses 5% 3% environment, health and safety, and privacy) is outlined
Other* 17% 33% in the relevant sections of this report.
* Representative of remaining policy violation types. GSK.com: Human rights • Modern Slavery Act statement
Increased focus on completing mandatory training and
improved classification of concerns altered the distribution
of policy violations when compared to 2018.
1 These are the latest available figures, 2019 figures are expected to be
available in April 2020 for submission to the EU’s Transparency Register.
38 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Trust continued
Working with third parties Priority suppliers are those with whom we have significant spend,
Our Third-Party Oversight programme strengthens our supply that support significant revenue and/or are medically or R&D
chain risk management by driving improvements in our global critical to the business. This has enabled us to provide more
network of third parties. This includes suppliers, distributors proactive support through engagement visits designed to build
and other organisations with which there is a transfer of value. capability in areas of improvement identified through EcoVadis
We want to ensure that the third parties we work with share our assessments or audits.
values and ethical and business standards. Our third-party risk
Our Buying Goods & Services transformation programme is
assessment and mitigation programme has been embedded
also delivering improved guidance, integration and compliance
globally and continues to be further simplified and refined to
for internal GSK users and our third parties. The programme
make it easier to engage third parties appropriately.
includes a new sourcing platform, launched in 2019, making
During 2019, over 14,000 risk assessments were completed, it easier for our suppliers to engage with us.
and more than 800 third parties identified as high risk have
GSK.com: Ethics and values
undergone detailed independent assessments by EcoVadis.
During 2019, we continued to work with our third-party
suppliers to reduce Environment, Health and Safety (EHS)
risks and conducted over 40 audits on EHS and ethics.
We also expanded our third-party EHS team to include
dedicated EHS professionals within the team based in
the countries where our priority suppliers are located.
Data and engagement
Data is becoming increasingly central to our business and the We have developed a comprehensive approach to privacy,
healthcare industry more broadly. Our digital, data and analytics including training that drives an understanding that everyone
strategy harnesses the power of data and technology to at GSK is personally responsible for the correct handling
strengthen our business and make a real difference to patients of personal information. We apply a set of privacy principles
around the world. We believe this will help our scientists to ensure that our use of personal information is kept to
develop innovative medicines more quickly, and with higher the minimum necessary and is fair, transparent, accurate
probability of success than ever before. It will enhance clinical and secure.
studies and improve interaction with healthcare providers,
In 2019, we combined our privacy training with the mandatory
customers and consumers.
Code of Conduct training. Approximately 32,000 individuals
Using data responsibly and transparently completed our Privacy Foundation training, which includes
With the privilege of using individuals’ personal information new hires, contingent workers, and those returning from leave
comes the responsibility of treating this data ethically. We are of absence. This explains our privacy principles to help them
committed to using data responsibly and transparently, and understand how to apply them in their daily work. It also raises
engaging with patients and healthcare providers to help meet awareness of why privacy matters for all those who handle
patient needs. This includes managing data carefully, sharing personal data.
the results of our clinical studies, integrating patient insights
Personnel who handle personal information in R&D and HR
into our product development, and providing healthcare
globally have received tailored privacy training to understand
professionals with relevant and accurate information when
their obligations under the Binding Corporate Rules, which
they need it.
enable the internal transfer of EU HR and R&D data across
Data privacy all GSK affiliates. Throughout 2019, people in key roles across
We recognise that people are increasingly concerned about the organisation continued to undergo certification from the
the protection and appropriate use of personal information, International Association of Privacy Professionals (IAPP) to
particularly when this is related to health. New regulations increase expertise and enable us to make informed decisions
around the world have also increased requirements on how about handling personal data. The number of people with
companies use personal information. Loss or inappropriate this certification at GSK has increased from 47 in 2018
use of personal information could have a serious impact, to 66 in 2019.
both for individuals affected and for businesses, and we
take our responsibility for data privacy seriously.
GSK Annual Report 2019 39Trust continued
The protection of individuals’ data and privacy is a high priority To improve engagement with patients involved in our clinical
in our exclusive collaboration with 23andMe. This collaboration studies, we have developed patient engagement plans for key
combines 23andMe’s genetic expertise and advanced data assets and set up a dedicated patient panel as a key part of our
science skills with GSK’s extensive scientific capabilities and internal governance process. This allows patients to input into
scale, to enhance the discovery and development of entirely the development of our research protocols, to improve patient
new medicines and potential cures. 23andMe customers experience during the study, and we keep them informed about
can choose to participate in research and contribute their the results after the study is completed.
information to the unique and dynamic database for the purpose
We ensure the inclusion of diverse populations in our clinical
of advancing scientific research. Participation is voluntary and
studies so the data we generate represents as many people
customers are required to consent affirmatively to their data
as possible. By including individuals of different demographics
being used for research. Should they choose to participate,
by age (elderly/frail and paediatric groups), sex, ethnicity and
their information is aggregated so no individual will be
race, we can capture potential variability in the responses
identifiable to GSK.
to our medicines and vaccines. This helps us to characterise
Clinical trial transparency a more robust benefit-risk profile, generate greater insight for
As part of our long-standing commitment to data transparency the prescribing information and ensure the right patient gets
for our clinical studies, we have published 2,605 clinical study the right medicine – this is particularly important as we move
reports (108 in 2019) and 6,106 summaries of results (123 in towards precision medicine.
2019) – both positive and negative – from our studies on our
In 2019, we made changes to our in-house trials to improve
clinical study register.1
the diversity of participants, including ensuring teams develop
We also share anonymised patient-level data from our studies plans on target populations (based on sex, age, race or
with external researchers. We have listed 2,477 studies for data ethnicity) that need to be targeted for recruitment at each stage
sharing via www.vivli.org and www.clinicalstudydatarequest.com. of the lifecycle of the molecule. We also asked our third-party
We launched this six years ago to facilitate innovative data-driven preferred vendors to provide a plan for how they will deliver
research, and it is now used by multiple other study sponsors improved recruitment and retention of diverse populations
and funders. External researchers are granted data access for our full-service outsourced trials.
based on a review of the scientific merit of their research
Through our engagement with healthcare professionals (HCPs),
proposal by an independent panel. Access to GSK study
we aim to provide information on our products in the way that
data has been approved for 157 proposals since 2013.
best suits them. For a limited time after we have new medicines
GSK.com and online: GSK Privacy Notice • GSK Clinical Study Register or significant new data, we allow payment to experts to speak
about the scientific evidence, the diseases they treat and their
Patient and scientific engagement
own clinical experience. We disclose annually the individual
To improve the delivery of ground-breaking new therapies,
level of payments to HCPs when legally permitted, or otherwise
we are strengthening our focus on patients’ needs by seeking
on an aggregate basis.
their insights across the business. We continue to support
In 2019, we also updated our salesforce incentives policy as
several initiatives that are empowering patients to get more
our portfolio has evolved, with a growing shift towards innovative
involved in the development of medicines through training,
specialty care medicines. This is an area requiring high levels
tools and dialogue – such as the European Patients’ Academy
of expertise to deliver information to specialised HCPs, and
on Therapeutic Innovation (EUPATI).
one where there is strong competition for talent. See page 22
In 2019, we held Patient Advocacy Leaders Summits in
for further details of this policy change.
Portugal, Japan and Switzerland. Representatives of patient
organisations also provide insights through our European GSK.com: Operating responsibly
Health Advisory Board and our Respiratory Health Board.
We now have new patient panels covering hepatitis, chronic
kidney disease and rheumatoid arthritis, as well as an
Oncology Patient Council.
1 New methodology introduced for 2019.
40 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Trust continued
Environment
We are committed to reducing our environmental impact Carbon emissions3 plus intensity ratios (as per regulations)
by one quarter by 2030, cutting greenhouse gas emissions, ‘000 tonnes CO2e 2019 2018 2017
reducing water impact and redirecting waste to beneficial use. Scope 1 emissions 800 825 892
This commitment is underpinned by five environmental
Scope 2 emissions 523 549 607
commitments for 2030 (set against a 2016 baseline) to:
Scope 3 emissions Available in 16,335 18,152
– reduce operational carbon emissions (Scope 1 and 2) 2020 report
by 20%;
Intensity ratios 2019 2018 2017
– reduce value chain carbon emissions (Scope 3) by 25% Scope 1 and 2 emissions/ 39.2 44.6 49.6
per £billion revenue; sales revenue (tonnes
CO e/£m)
– source 60% of electricity from renewable sources, 2
with an interim target of 30% by 2020; Scope 1 and 2 emissions/ 13.3 14.4 15.2
FTE (tonnes CO e/FTE)4
2
– reduce total water use at each high-risk site by 30%;
Scope 3 emissions/£bn Available in 0.53 0.6
– ensure all waste is repurposed to beneficial uses. revenue (million tonnes 2020 report
CO e/£bn revenue)
Carbon 2
We are committed to playing our part to address climate
Emissions from the use of our inhaler products fell by 6%
change. Our overall value chain carbon footprint is made up
in 2019 mainly from a reduction in the amount of Ventolin
of Scope 1 and 2 emissions from our own operations (8%)
produced. Our new portfolio of inhaled medicines is delivered
and Scope 3 emissions from our supplier base (48%),
via the Ellipta dry powder inhaler (DPI), which has a lifecycle
logistics (4%) and the use of our products (40%) – mostly
carbon footprint around 24 times lower than a propellant-based
metered dose inhalers.
inhaler.5
We are accredited by the Science Based Targets initiative
We support efforts to promote low carbon inhalers where
for a set of Scope 1, 2 and 3 targets, in line with a level of
possible. In the UK, for example, the NHS has adopted a
decarbonisation required to keep the global temperature
commitment to increase DPI prescribing in its Long-Term Plan,
increase to 2°C. We made good progress against these
and in 2019 GSK ran a public information campaign on the
commitments in 2019.
different footprint of inhalers (www.lowcarboninhalers.co.uk),
In 2019, we lowered our Scope 1 and 2 emissions1 by 4% encouraging patients to discuss inhaler options with their
through continued deployment of energy efficiency programmes healthcare professional. GSK is also supporting similar low
across our operating sites. Globally, around 5% of our electricity carbon inhaler initiatives in Belgium and Sweden.
came from renewable sources. We plan to expand this and by
We benchmark our performance externally, and in 2019
2020, through a combination of green certificates and on-site
we scored B in CDP Climate.
renewable generation, over 30% of our global electricity needs
Climate resilience
will be decarbonised across the UK, US and Europe.
In 2019, we carried out scenario analyses for five products
In 2018 (our latest available data)2, absolute Scope 3 emissions
and their supply chains against the Task Force on Climate-
decreased by 10% vs 2017 and by 4% per £1 billion revenue,
related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) framework guidelines.
mainly from reduced emissions associated with raw materials.
We used a business as usual scenario and a low carbon
This represents a reduction of 17% per £1 billion revenue
scenario to identify potential areas of risk and opportunity
since our 2016 baseline year. We recognise achievements
that climate change presents to our business (see page 46).
by our suppliers to reduce their environmental impacts through
our annual Supplier Environmental Sustainability Awards.
In 2019, the winners were a supplier that encourages
excellence in agricultural practices in India, and a UK energy
provider that creates clean energy and is inspiring the next
generation of scientists and engineers to be innovative in
tackling climate change.
1 All reductions are against our existing portfolio, excluding the Pfizer sites
that joined in August.
2 2019 figures are expected to be available in 2020.
3 Carbon emissions are calculated according to the Greenhouse Gas
Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (revised edition).
4 2017 and 2018 figures for scope 2 emissions from electricity restated
based on the updated IEA emission factors published in 2018.
5 For one year's treatment, use of propellant-based inhalers results
in a carbon footprint of 228kg CO2e compared with 9.6kg CO2e from
using Ellipta dry powder inhalers.
GSK Annual Report 2019 41Trust continued
Water Plastic
Our goal is to reduce our total water use at each high-risk The packaging of our products plays an important role in
site by 30% by 2030. While climate change must be tackled delivering safe, stable and trusted medicines, vaccines and
at a global level, water challenges are much more localised. consumer healthcare products. However, we recognise the
All our vaccine, pharmaceutical and consumer healthcare impact that plastic packaging has on the environment.
manufacturing sites have completed risk assessments and
We are working on a plan to reduce our plastic packaging,
are implementing actions to ensure compliance with our water
making it recyclable, and exploring how we increase use of
stewardship standard by 2020. These assessments identified
recycled plastic content, recognising that medical regulations
10 high-risk sites that used 0.7 million cubic metres of water
around the world place significant constraints on the use of
in 2019 (6% of our total water use). This risk rating is based
recycled materials. Our Vaccines business is removing PVC
on water scarcity, local water quality, health and social risks,
from all packaging by the end of 2020 and we have developed
and regulatory and reputational risks.
a new pump for Flonase/Sensimist which reduces the amount
These sites are working on strategies to reduce their water of plastic used in the device by 12%.
impact, and are making good progress. For example, our site
While we have completed a review of our plastic use across
in Cape Town, South Africa (an area affected by drought)
the business – which found that 70% of our plastic footprint is
initiated water recovery and rainwater harvesting projects.
associated with our Consumer Healthcare products – this took
Their water saving measures across the year saved 1,740m3
place before the integration of the Pfizer consumer healthcare
water – 9% of the site’s annual water use. One of our sites in
business. We are now updating this to include the impact of
Karachi, Pakistan has also successfully implemented projects
the joint venture. We are also implementing initiatives to reduce,
to reduce water used in cooling towers and to shorten cleaning
and remove where possible, single use plastics across all GSK
cycles where excess water was being used. These activities
offices worldwide and have already eliminated 2.1 million items
decreased the amount of water used for cleaning by 60%,
of plastic from our food and refreshment outlets.
and helped reduce the site’s water footprint by 4%.
Pharmaceuticals in the environment
Waste
We are committed to ensuring that our compounds do
By the end of 2020, we aim for 100% of our sites to send
not adversely affect people or the environment. We carry
zero waste to landfill. This avoids harmful environmental impacts
out environmental testing on all our pharmaceuticals, and use
from landfill and keeps materials, such as solvents, in circulation
this data in risk assessments to evaluate potential for harm.
for use in new products. In 2019, less than 3% of our waste
We take steps to minimise the risk of any active pharmaceutical
was sent to landfill (excluding the newly-joined Pfizer consumer
ingredients, including antibiotics, entering the environment as
healthcare sites), with 73 sites achieving and maintaining zero
a result of our manufacturing processes.
waste to landfill. We have cut the amount of waste we produce
by 14% since 2016, generating a total of 117,000 tonnes in GSK is part of the AMR Industry Alliance launched in 2017
2019. This includes 23,000 tonnes of hazardous waste and and is a signatory to the Industry Roadmap for Progress on
3,100 tonnes sent to landfill. Combating AMR. For more on our efforts to combat AMR,
see page 32. We have publicly committed to minimise antibiotic
Our longer-term goal is that, by 2030, 100% of our waste will
discharge in our supply chain and to ensure that manufacturing-
be directed to beneficial use, either to recycling, or incinerating
related discharges are negligible by the end of 2021. In 2019,
waste with energy recovery. In 2019, 79% of our waste was
through the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative, we shared
recycled or incinerated with energy recovery.
guidance and best practice on managing antibiotic discharges
Paper and palm oil from manufacturing with our suppliers.
We are committed to moving towards deforestation-free
GSK.com: Environment
sourcing for all key commodities purchased directly by GSK
or indirectly on our behalf by 2030. This is a challenge due to
the complex nature of our supply chains, but we have reached
94% for paper packaging and 70% for palm oil from sustainable
sources by volume. We are working with the Roundtable for
Sustainable Palm Oil to purchase book & claim credits, and
with the Rainforest Alliance to audit and assure our supply
chain. To date, we have focused on paper packaging, palm oil
and palm oil derivatives, and have developed supplier selection
criteria, as well as sourcing standards in conjunction with the
Rainforest Alliance.
42 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Risk management
Our risk management framework is well embedded and continually
reviewed. Board-level oversight is provided by our Audit and Risk Committee,
assisted by our Risk Oversight and Compliance Council.
The framework enables the Board to identify, evaluate and Each year, the CET conducts a formal risk review to consider
manage principal risks and is designed to support our long-term emerging risks and whether sufficient information is available
priorities. The framework provides for an effective hierarchy of to support their inclusion in our principal risks list. This review is
Risk Management and Compliance Boards within each of our supported by extensive analysis of external trends and insights,
businesses which promotes the ‘tone from the top’, establishes senior level interviews and recommendations from GSK’s key
the risk culture and oversees the effective cascade and risk intelligence groups and risk management boards.
escalation of information regarding our internal controls.
In 2019 the CET agreed to escalate two new risks to
Along with our values, expectations and Speak Up processes,
standalone principal risks for 2020 – Environmental
it ensures that the risks associated with our business activities
sustainability and Non-promotional engagement. Work is
are actively and effectively identified and mitigated and provides
also underway to establish appropriate reporting for a
reasonable assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Transformation risk in recognition of the significant
We conduct an annual confirmation exercise to ensure that
transformation associated with our intention to separate
our risk management approach is consistent across GSK,
GSK’s Consumer Healthcare business.
which reinforces leader accountability.
We list our principal risks on pages 44 and 45, with our
During 2019, the Audit and Risk Committee considered
assessment of the external macro environment and the risk
GSK’s risks and the strategies to address them. In doing
exposure following mitigation. The risks are not in order of
so it drew on annual business unit risk and assurance update
significance.
reports, strategy papers for our most significant risks, and an
annual risk review. Risks associated with the proposed separation
of GSK’s Consumer Healthcare business
Each principal risk is overseen by a CET-level risk owner
A separation of our Consumer Healthcare business may
to ensure proportionate controls are in place, with clear plans
be dependent on a number of factors that are outside GSK’s
assigned to address any gaps.
control, including any required shareholder and regulatory
GSK considers both current and emerging risks as part of approvals, favourable conditions in public equity markets
its risk management framework. GSK defines emerging risks and public or private debt markets and changes in applicable
as those which are on the three-year horizon. We may not yet law and regulation. Therefore, there can be no certainty that
have adequate information about their impact or likelihood a separation will be completed as proposed (or at all).
and therefore these may warrant further investigation before
In addition, if a separation is completed, there can be no
inclusion in our list of principal risks.
assurance that either GSK or Consumer Healthcare will
Emerging risk assessments are performed as part of the remit realise the expected benefits of separation or that the separation
of our Risk Management and Compliance Boards at all levels will not adversely affect GSK or Consumer Healthcare or the
of the organisation. Additionally, at the global level we perform value or liquidity of their respective shares.
an annual PESTLE analysis of the political, economic, social,
Risks associated with the coronavirus outbreak
technological, legal and environmental trends from the external
The potential impact of the coronavirus outbreak on GSK's
environment to identify emerging risks.
trading performance and supply continuity remains uncertain.
Up to the date of this Report, the outbreak has not had a
material impact on the trading results of the Group. However,
we continue to monitor the situation closely, including the
potential impacts on trading results, our supply continuity
and our employees.
The situation could change at any time and there can be no
assurance that the coronavirus outbreak will not have a material
adverse impact on the future results of the Group.
Viability statement, see page 47
ARC Report, see page 96
Principal risks and uncertainties, see page 275
Internal Control Framework, see page 105
GSK Annual Report 2019 43Risk management continued
Risk Assessment and mitigation activities
Patient safety The macro risk level remains high. Developments in data interrogation present potential
benefits for Patient safety but the volume of data to be analysed presents a significant
challenge which intensifies when coupled with fragmented regulatory requirements.
There are increasing expectations that technology will deliver safer innovative medicines
with less risks.
GSK's exposure remains unchanged. We have deployed a new operating model
for safety activities involving a simpler central safety organisation and outsourcing
of local pharmacovigilance activities. Both deployments have passed successful
audits indicating we should expect a lower risk in steady state during H2 2020.
Product quality The macro risk level remains unchanged despite continued concerns over drug
shortages and security and the uncertainty and complexity associated with Brexit.
GSK’s exposure remains unchanged. The benefits of our ongoing investment and
improvement initiatives in manufacturing facilities, operating systems and training
are reflected in our quality performance metrics and inspection outcomes.
Financial controls The macro risk level has increased. There is significant political uncertainty and
increasing societal expectations of financial reporting and the role of auditors, as well
and reporting
as highly sophisticated fraudsters enabled by the speed of technological change.
GSK’s exposure has been maintained at current levels despite the increase in external
risk exposure as a result of the benefits of our previous transformation programmes,
the strengthening of controls by leveraging technology and centralising processes,
enhancing monitoring and maintaining effective tax and treasury strategies.
Anti-bribery and The macro risk level remains unchanged as we continue to see legal frameworks similar
corruption (ABAC) to the UK and US develop in emerging economies; high standards are expected of
individuals and corporations aided by improved technology and increased enforcement.
The GSK exposure remains unchanged. We have appropriate controls in place such
as training, awareness raising, and strong monitoring around transactions and payments
to third parties. We plan to continue with pre and post-transaction ABAC due diligence,
increasing the capabilities in the business on monitoring, oversight and red flag resolution
of third parties. We continue to understand and assess our money-laundering risk
exposure and mitigate any existing risk.
Commercial practices The macro risk level is increasing with increased pricing pressure, greater retailer
and online competition from a broader set of competitors, an evolving digital landscape
and increased scrutiny of marketing practices in the industry.
GSK’s exposure has marginally increased as we integrate Tesaro and our Consumer
Healthcare Joint Venture with Pfizer. We continue to invest in proportionate controls,
training and monitoring as we embed our new HCP engagement model and salesforce
incentives programme (see page 22).
44 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Risk management continued
Risk Assessment and mitigation activities
Privacy The macro risk level has increased due to the diversity of data privacy legislation and
limited harmonisation occurring, despite Europe’s adoption of GDPR. Multi-nationals
have challenges to standardise their data privacy approach with the high local
variation and rise of enforcement by regulators.
GSK’s exposure remains constant following the successful deployment of our
Privacy Operating Model in the EU and prioritised deployment in the rest of the
world progressing well.
Research practices The macro risk level has increased as regulators are adapting to new technological
advancements as well as introducing changes regarding data privacy, animal welfare
and human biological samples which have yet to be fully announced and the
requirements for implementation understood.
GSK's exposure remains unchanged. Increasing regulatory expectations are being offset
by risk mitigation actions to embed and monitor additional controls and further enhance
and monitor the quality culture, with a particular focus on data integrity and access and
benefit sharing (Nagoya Protocol).
Third party oversight The macro risk level has increased due to growing numbers of countries with varying
regulation and manufacturing standards requiring local production, which increases
the number of third parties we have to assess and continuously oversee.
The GSK exposure remains unchanged. Our third-party risk assessment and mitigation
programme has been embedded and continues to be further simplified and refined to
make it easier to engage third parties appropriately.
Environment, The macro risk level has increased due to greater emphasis on environmental controls
health and safety from regulators, activists and stakeholders across our direct operations and supply
and sustainability chain. An emerging area of focus is post-consumption waste associated with medicines.
There are ever-more stringent regulations and standards in developed as well as
developing countries.
The GSK risk exposure remains unchanged as we continue to focus on more appropriate
control over our supply chain, particularly of our active pharmaceutical ingredient (API)
suppliers.
Information security The macro risk level continues to increase as a result of an increasing digital footprint,
reflecting a large multi-national organisation, combined with more sophisticated
hacking threats.
The GSK risk exposure remains unchanged with the development of controls to increase
cyber operations and threat intelligence capabilities; mitigation to protect critical
information systems and applications, and enhancements to security of operational
technology systems and networks offsetting some risk.
Supply continuity The macro risk level remains unchanged with the ongoing evolution of stringent
regulatory expectations including continued regulatory focus on contract manufacturers.
Brexit continues to provide uncertainty.
The GSK risk exposure level remains unchanged. We have improved risk management
of our supplier portfolio, reduced the complexity of our networks and improved our crisis
and continuity management framework. However, reduced inventories, threats posed by
cyberattacks and global emergencies such as the coronavirus outbreak, and the quality
of incoming materials present ongoing supply risks.
GSK Annual Report 2019 45Risk management continued
Climate-related financial disclosure
Here we provide GSK’s first voluntary disclosure against the The analysis showed that in both scenarios there is likely
recommendations of the Taskforce for Climate-related Financial to be some financial risks which would need to be managed,
Disclosure (TCFD), an initiative of the Financial Stability Board, but none that would materially impact our business model.
which promotes the disclosure of climate change risk. The key impacts for both scenarios were:
Governance – Flood-related disruptions at our own manufacturing sites
The Board has oversight and responsibility for the management and in our supply chain;
of climate change risks with support from the CET. The Board’s – Water stress leading to increased expenditure and disruption
Corporate Responsibility Committee (CRC) oversees GSK’s at both our own manufacturing sites and in our supply chain;
Environmental Sustainability enterprise risk and progress
– Higher temperatures affecting the quality and availability
against our environmental targets (see CRC Report on
of some raw materials;
page 109).
– Increased costs of fossil fuels.
Regis Simard, President, Pharmaceuticals Supply Chain,
These findings represent an initial assessment and we plan
has management responsibility for environment, health & safety
to use them to understand the impacts further and to develop
and sustainability (including climate change risk). He is on the
action plans to help mitigate these risks, embed sustainability
CET and reports directly to the CEO.
into strategy and review opportunities.
Strategy
Risk management
Trust is one of our three long-term priorities and reducing our
In 2019, Environmental Sustainability, which includes climate
environmental impact is an important part of the Trust priority
change risks, became a standalone Principal Risk to the
(see metrics and targets).
business for 2020 (previously managed as a sub-risk of
To gain a better understanding of how climate change might Environment, Health & Safety and Sustainability) (see page 43).
impact our business, in 2019, we completed scenario analyses
Risks related to climate change are managed at different levels
for five key products from across our Vaccines, Pharmaceuticals
of the organisation, depending on the nature of the risk.
and Consumer Healthcare businesses. The two scenarios were:
Risks and opportunities associated with GSK’s energy, water
– business-as-usual: we assumed little to no mitigation
and waste reduction programmes are managed by the Climate
leading to 3-5°C of warming by 2100;
Change and Energy Reduction Team, with representatives
– low-carbon: we assumed that the global temperature
from each of GSK’s three business units and relevant support
increase by 2100 is limited to well below 2°C by rapid
functions meeting quarterly.
changes in legislation and technology.
Operational risks and opportunities at asset or site level are
The study was conducted by an independent third party and
identified, assessed and managed by GSK’s business units
used internationally recognised data sets such as those from
through their risk management teams.
the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. The potential
physical risks of a changing climate such as flooding, as well Metrics and targets
as the risks associated with a transition to a low-carbon Our goal is to reduce our environmental impact by one quarter
economy such as international climate policy and carbon by 2030. This goal is underpinned by five environmental targets
pricing were analysed. The analysis looked at the implications for carbon (Scopes 1, 2 and 3) renewable electricity sources,
for GSK manufacturing facilities, suppliers and raw materials water and waste (see pages 41 and 42).
providers for each of the five products. The assessment did
We have been accredited by the Science Based Targets
not consider any actions that GSK might take to mitigate or
Initiative for a set of Scope 1, 2 and 3 targets in line with
adapt to the findings.
the decarbonisation required to keep global temperature
increases to 2oC.
We are also committed to moving towards deforestation-free
sourcing for all key commodities and are working with partners
such as the Roundtable for Sustainable Palm Oil and the
Rainforest Alliance.
More detail on the progress we are making towards achieving
our targets can be found on page 42, and in our public
response to the CDP questionnaire.
46 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Risk management continued
Viability statement
In accordance with provision 31 of the 2018 revision The following hypothetical downside scenarios have been
of the Code, GSK has assessed the prospects of the evaluated:
Company over a longer period than the 12 months required
Scenario 1: Business performance risks. These include key
by the ‘Going Concern’ provision. The Directors confirm that
performance risks, including lower sales from new products;
they have a reasonable expectation that GSK will continue to
greater adverse impact from generic competition and other
operate and meet its liabilities, as they fall due, over the next
competitive launches to other GSK products; as well as
three years. The Directors’ assessment has been made with
possible supply and manufacturing challenges.
reference to GSK’s current position and prospects, our
strategy, the Board’s risk appetite and GSK’s principal risks Scenario 2: External and macroeconomic risks. This scenario
and how these are managed, as detailed on pages 44 and reflects incremental risks to the business driven by outside
45 in the Strategic report. factors, such as more intense competition, increased pricing
pressure in both the US and Europe as well as the potential
The Board reviews our internal controls and risk management
impact of material negative changes in the macro-economic
policies and approves our governance structure and code
and healthcare environment.
of conduct. It also appraises and approves major financing,
investment and licensing decisions, and evaluates and monitors Scenario 3: Principal risks. This scenario includes a severe
the performance and prospects of GSK as a whole. The focus assessment of the potential loss impact from the principal
is largely on improving our long-term financial performance risks related to patient safety, product quality, supply chain
through delivery of our company and three business strategies continuity as well as anti-bribery and corruption and any
and aligned Innovation, Performance and Trust priorities. consequent regulatory actions or fines, all of which could
fundamentally threaten our operations. This would include any
The Board reviews GSK’s strategy and makes significant
potential severe impact of coronavirus if this were to materialise.
capital investment decisions over a long-term time horizon,
These risks are managed through mitigating activities described
based on a multi-year assessment of return on capital, the
on pages 275 to 287.
performance of the company and three business units, and
the market opportunity in the pharmaceutical, vaccines and Scenario 4: Put option exercise. This scenario evaluates the
consumer sectors. This approach is aligned to GSK’s model additional funding requirements assuming the earliest potential
of achieving balanced growth by investing in high quality, exercise of the outstanding put option held by our partner in the
innovative products for patients, consumers and healthcare HIV business.
providers. However, since many internal and external parameters The future separation of the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture
become increasingly unpredictable over longer time horizons, with Pfizer, if approved by the Board, may potentially occur
GSK focuses its detailed, bottom-up Plan on a three-year cycle. within the period covered by the viability assessment. We have
The Plan is reviewed at least annually by the Directors, who considered this scenario and have concluded that there is no
approve business forecasts showing expected financial impact. material impact to viability for the Group or resultant separate
The Directors believe that a three-year assessment period for companies over the three-year period of this assessment.
the Viability statement is most appropriate as it aligns with the
The three-year review also makes certain assumptions about
company’s well established business planning processes
the normal level of capital recycling likely to occur and considers
that balance the long-term nature of investments in the
whether additional financing facilities will be required and the
pharmaceutical, vaccines and consumer sectors with an
respective level of funding flexibility and headroom.
assessment of the period over which analysis of near-term
business performance is realistically visible. The results of this stress testing show that certain combinations
of these hypothetical scenarios could increase funding
The Plan has been stress tested in a series of robust operational
demands on GSK and require mitigating changes to the
and principal risk downside scenarios as part of the Board’s
Group’s funding strategy. However, in light of the liquidity
review on risk. These include the potential effects of Brexit,
available to the Group and based on this analysis, the Directors
which are not expected to be material, although there may be
have a reasonable expectation that, even under these most
some short-term disruption. The downside scenarios consider
severe stress tests, the company will be able to continue in
GSK’s cash flows, sustainability of dividends, funding strategy,
operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the
insurance provision and recovery as well as other key financial
three-year period of assessment.
ratios over the period. These metrics have been subject to
sensitivity analysis, which involves flexing a number of the main
assumptions underlying the forecasts both individually and in
combination, along with mitigating actions that could realistically
be taken to avoid or reduce the impact or occurrence of the
underlying risk.
GSK Annual Report 2019 47Risk management continued
Our preparations for Brexit
In preparing for the UK’s exit from the EU (Brexit), our We anticipate subsequent and ongoing costs arising from
overriding priority has been to maintain continuity of supply Brexit could include further customs duties and will include
of our medicines, vaccines and consumer healthcare products the cost of duplicate testing and release of our products.
to people in the UK and EU. We took a risk-based approach We continue to estimate these potential costs at approximately
to planning and mitigation and now have in place a new post- £50 million per year. As more details emerge on how our
Brexit operating model. As part of the new model we have business will need to adapt to the future UK-EU relationship,
arranged for the retesting and certification of our medicines the assumptions underlying these forecasts could change,
and consumer products in Europe where required and have with consequent adjustments up or down. As part of the Brexit
completed relevant marketing authorisation transfers, updated process, GSK has been engaging with Governments in both
packaging and secured additional warehousing for our the UK and EU27, as well as Brussels institutions, to discuss
products. We continue to support our employees in obtaining our preparations, alongside our ambitions for the new UK/EU
settled status or equivalent in both the UK and Europe. Normal relationship. We will continue to review our plans and any
change processes will be used to manage outstanding tax and potential financial impact as negotiations and regulations
customs activities, which depend on the new borders being in develop and we remain ready for all outcomes in December
place between the UK and EU. 2020. Over the longer term, we continue to believe that Brexit
will not have a material impact on our business.
Non-financial information statement
The following aligns to the non-financial reporting requirements contained in sections 414CA and 414CB
of the Companies Act 2006.
Description of the business model Human rights Policy, due diligence and outcomes
How we create value 09 Human rights 38 Summary of our principal risks 44
Social matters Data and engagement 39 Principal risks and uncertainties 275
Third parties 39 Viability statement 47
Global health 31
Anti-corruption and bribery Audit & Risk Committee report 96
Health security 32
Non-financial key performance
Affordability and availability 33 Living our values and expectations 37
indicators
Employees Reporting and investigating concerns 38
Anti-bribery and corruption 38 Key performance indicators 11
Employee engagement 35
Environmental matters Our policies
Diversity 35
Wellbeing and development 36 Carbon, water and waste 41 All of our public policies, codes and
Gender pay gap 36 standards are available on gsk.com
Living our values and expectations 37
Board diversity 36
48 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Group
financial
review
In this section
Reporting framework 50
Our approach to tax 53
Financial performance 54
Adjusting items 62
Cash generation and conversion 65
Financial position and resources 66
Treasury policies 71
Critical accounting policies 72
GGSSKK AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22001199 4499Group financial review
Reporting framework
Total and Adjusted results Costs for all other ordinary course smaller scale restructuring
The Group financial review discusses the operating and and legal charges and expenses are retained within both Total
financial performance of the Group, its cash flows and financial and Adjusted results.
position and our resources. The results for each year are
As Adjusted results include the benefits of Major restructuring
compared primarily with the results of the preceding year.
programmes but exclude significant costs (such as significant
Total results legal, major restructuring and transaction items), they should
Total reported results represent the Group’s overall not be regarded as a complete picture of the Group’s financial
performance. performance, which is presented in its Total results. The
exclusion of other Adjusting items may result in Adjusted
GSK also uses a number of adjusted, non-IFRS, measures to
earnings being materially higher or lower than Total earnings.
report the performance of its business. Adjusted results and
In particular, when significant impairments, restructuring
other non-IFRS measures may be considered in addition to,
charges and legal costs are excluded, Adjusted earnings
but not as a substitute for or superior to, information presented
will be higher than Total earnings.
in accordance with IFRS. Adjusted results are defined below
and other non-IFRS measures are defined on page 52. GSK is undertaking a number of Major restructuring
programmes in response to significant changes in the Group’s
GSK believes that Adjusted results, when considered together
trading environment or overall strategy, or following material
with Total results, provide investors, analysts and other
acquisitions. Costs, both cash and non-cash, of these
stakeholders with helpful complementary information to
programmes are provided for as individual elements
understand better the financial performance and position
are approved and meet the accounting recognition criteria.
of the Group from period to period, and allow the Group’s
As a result, charges may be incurred over a number of years
performance to be more easily compared against the majority
following the initiation of a Major restructuring programme.
of its peer companies. These measures are also used by
management for planning and reporting purposes. They may The Group has also initiated a two-year Separation Preparation
not be directly comparable with similarly described measures programme to prepare GSK for separation into two new
used by other companies. leading companies in biopharma and consumer healthcare.
GSK encourages investors and analysts not to rely on any From time to time, the Group divests non-core investments,
single financial measure but to review GSK’s Annual Reports, products and businesses and records the profit or loss on
including the financial statements and notes, in their entirety. disposal as an Adjusting item. The most notable divestment in
the past five years was the disposal of the Oncology business
GSK is committed to continuously improving its financial
as one element of the three-part transaction with Novartis in
reporting, in line with evolving regulatory requirements and
2015.
best practice.
Significant legal charges and expenses are those arising from
Adjusted results the settlement of litigation or government investigations that
Adjusted results exclude the following items from Total results, are not in the normal course and are materially larger than more
together with the tax effects of all of these items: regularly occurring individual matters. They also include certain
– amortisation of intangible assets (excluding computer major legacy matters.
software) Reconciliations between Total and Adjusted results, providing
– impairment of intangible assets (excluding computer further information on the key Adjusting items for 2018 and
software) and goodwill 2019 are set out on page 62 and for the five years to 2019 are
set out on pages 266 to 268.
– Major restructuring costs, which include impairments of
tangible assets and computer software, (under specific GSK provides earnings guidance to the investor community on
Board-approved programmes that are structural, of a the basis of Adjusted results. This is in line with peer companies
significant scale and where the costs of individual or related and expectations of the investor community, supporting easier
projects exceed £25 million) including integration costs comparison of the Group’s performance with its peers. GSK is
following material acquisitions not able to give guidance for Total results as it cannot reliably
– transaction-related accounting or other adjustments related forecast certain material elements of the Total results,
to significant acquisitions particularly the future fair value movements on contingent
consideration and put options that can and have given rise to
– proceeds and costs of disposals of associates, products
significant adjustments driven by external factors such as
and businesses; significant legal charges (net of insurance
currency and other movements in capital markets.
recoveries) and expenses on the settlement of litigation and
government investigations; other operating income other
than royalty income, and other items.
50 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Group financial review continued
Reporting framework continued
Historical record of Adjusting items
The reconciliations between Total and Adjusted operating profit over the last five years can be summarised as follows:
2019 2018 2017 2016 2015
£m £m £m £m £m
Total operating profit 6,961 5,483 4,087 2,598 10,322
Intangible asset amortisation 777 580 591 588 563
Intangible asset impairment 83 116 688 20 206
Major restructuring 1,105 809 1,056 970 1,891
Transaction-related items 345 1,977 1,599 3,919 2,238
Divestments, significant legal and other items (299) (220) (119) (424) (9,561)
US tax reform – – 666 – –
Adjusted operating profit 8,972 8,745 8,568 7,671 5,659
The analysis of the impact of transaction-related items on operating profit for each of the last five years is as follows:
2019 2018 2017 2016 2015
£m £m £m £m £m
Novartis Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture put option – 658 986 1,133 83
Contingent consideration on former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare JV (including Shionogi preferential dividends) 31 1,188 556 2,162 1,874
ViiV Healthcare put options and Pfizer preferential dividends (234) (58) (126) 577 –
Contingent consideration on former Novartis Vaccines business 76 58 101 69 108
Release of fair value uplift on acquired Pfizer inventory 366 – – – –
Other adjustments 106 131 82 (22) 173
Transaction-related items 345 1,977 1,599 3,919 2,238
Full reconciliations between Total and Adjusted results for 2015–2019 are set out on pages 266 to 268. Further explanations on
the Adjusting items for 2019 are reported on page 62.
Non-controlling interests in ViiV Healthcare ViiV Healthcare also agreed to pay additional future cash
Trading profit allocations consideration to Shionogi, contingent on the future sales
Because ViiV Healthcare is a subsidiary of the Group, 100% performance of the products being developed by that joint
of its operating results (turnover, operating profit, profit after tax) venture, principally dolutegravir. Under IFRS 3 ‘Business
are included within the Group income statement and then a combinations’, GSK was required to provide for the estimated
portion of the earnings is allocated to the non-controlling fair value of this contingent consideration at the time of
interests owned by the other shareholders, in line with their acquisition and is required to update the liability to the latest
respective equity shareholdings (Pfizer 11.7% and Shionogi estimate of fair value at each subsequent period end. The
10%). Each of the shareholders, including GSK, is also entitled liability for the contingent consideration recognised in the
to preferential dividends determined by the performance of balance sheet at the date of acquisition was £659 million.
certain products that each shareholder contributed. As the Subsequent remeasurements are reflected within other
relative performance of these products changes over time, operating income/expense and within Adjusting items in
the proportion of the overall earnings of ViiV Healthcare the income statement in each period, and at 31 December
allocated to each shareholder will change. In particular, the 2019, the liability, which is discounted at 8.5%, stood at
increasing proportion of sales of dolutegravir-containing £5,103 million, on a post-tax basis.
products has a favourable impact on the proportion of the Cash payments to settle the contingent consideration are
preferential dividends that is allocated to GSK. Adjusting items made to Shionogi by ViiV Healthcare each quarter, based on
are allocated to shareholders based on their equity interests. the actual sales performance of the relevant products in the
GSK was entitled to approximately 85% of the Total earnings previous quarter. These payments reduce the balance sheet
and 82% of the Adjusted earnings of ViiV Healthcare for 2019. liability and hence are not recorded in the income statement.
Remeasurements of the liabilities for the preferential dividends The cash payments made to Shionogi by ViiV Healthcare in
allocated to Pfizer and Shionogi are included within other 2019 were £865 million.
operating income.
Because the liability is required to be recorded at the fair value
Acquisition-related arrangements of estimated future payments, there is a significant timing
As consideration for the acquisition of Shionogi’s interest in difference between the charges that are recorded in the Total
the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture in 2012, income statement to reflect movements in the fair value of the
Shionogi received the 10% equity stake in ViiV Healthcare. liability and the actual cash payments made to settle the liability.
GSK Annual Report 2019 51Group financial review continued
Reporting framework continued
The cash payments are reflected in the cash flow statement However, during Q1 2016, GSK notified Shionogi that it had
partly in operating cash flows and partly within investing irrevocably given up this right and accordingly recognised the
activities. The tax relief on these payments is reflected in the liability for the put option on the Group’s balance sheet during
Group’s Adjusting items as part of the tax charge. The part of Q1 2016 at an initial value of £926 million. In Q4 2016,
each payment relating to the original estimate of the fair value Shionogi irrevocably agreed to waive its put option and as a
of the contingent consideration on the acquisition of the result GSK de-recognised the liability for this put option on the
Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture in 2012 of £659 million Group’s balance sheet directly to equity. The value of the
is reported within investing activities in the cash flow statement liability was £1,244 million when it was de-recognised.
and the part of each payment relating to the increase in the
GSK also has a call option over Shionogi’s shareholding in
liability since the acquisition is reported within operating cash
ViiV Healthcare, which under the original agreements was
flows.
exercisable in six-month windows commencing in 2027, 2030
Movements in contingent consideration payable to Shionogi and 2032. GSK has now irrevocably agreed to waive the first
were as follows: two exercise windows, but the last six-month window in 2032
2019 2018 remains. As this call option is at fair value, it has no value for
£m £m accounting purposes.
Contingent consideration at beginning of the year 5,937 5,542
Remeasurement through income statement 31 1,188 Free cash flow
Cash payments: operating cash flows (767) (703) Free cash flow is defined as the net cash inflow from operating
Cash payments: investing activities (98) (90) activities less capital expenditure on property, plant and
equipment and intangible assets, contingent consideration
Contingent consideration at end of the year 5,103 5,937
payments, net finance costs, and dividends paid to non-
Of the contingent consideration payable (on a post-tax basis) controlling interests plus proceeds from the sale of property,
to Shionogi at 31 December 2019, £730 million (31 December plant and equipment and intangible assets, and dividends
2018 – £815 million) is expected to be paid within one year. received from joint ventures and associates. It is used by
management for planning and reporting purposes and in
Exit rights
discussions with and presentations to investment analysts
Pfizer may request an IPO of ViiV Healthcare at any time and if
and rating agencies. Free cash flow growth is calculated
either GSK does not consent to such IPO or an offering is not
on a reported basis. A reconciliation of net cash inflow from
completed within nine months, Pfizer could require GSK to
operations to free cash flow is set out on page 65.
acquire its shareholding. Under the original agreements, GSK
had the unconditional right, so long as it made no subsequent CER and AER growth
distribution to its shareholders, to withhold its consent to the In order to illustrate underlying performance, it is the Group’s
exercise of the Pfizer put option and, as a result, in accordance practice to discuss its results in terms of constant exchange
with IFRS, GSK did not recognise a liability for the put option rate (CER) growth. This represents growth calculated as if
on its balance sheet. However, during Q1 2016, GSK notified the exchange rates used to determine the results of overseas
Pfizer that it had irrevocably given up this right and accordingly companies in Sterling had remained unchanged from those
recognised the liability for the put option on the Group’s balance used in the comparative period. CER% represents growth at
sheet during Q1 2016 at an initial value of £1,070 million. constant exchange rates. £% or AER% represents growth at
Consistent with this revised treatment, at the end of Q1 2016 actual exchange rates.
GSK also recognised liabilities for the future preferential
Pro-forma growth
dividends anticipated to become payable to Pfizer and Shionogi
The acquisition of the Pfizer consumer healthcare business
on the Group’s balance sheet.
completed on 31 July 2019 and so GSK’s reported results
The closing balances of the liabilities related to Pfizer’s
include five months of results of the former Pfizer consumer
shareholding are as follows:
healthcare business from 1 August 2019.
2019 2018 The Group has presented pro-forma growth rates at CER
£m £m
for turnover, Adjusted operating profit and operating profit by
Pfizer put option 1,011 1,240
business taking account of this transaction. Pro-forma growth
Pfizer preferential dividend 4 15
rates at CER for 2019 are calculated comparing reported
results for 2019, calculated applying the exchange rates used
Under the original agreements, Shionogi could also have
in the comparative period, with the results for 2018, adjusted
requested GSK to acquire its shareholding in ViiV Healthcare
to include the equivalent five months of results of the former
in six-month windows commencing in 2017, 2020 and 2022.
Pfizer consumer healthcare business, as consolidated (in US$)
GSK had the unconditional right, so long as it made no
and included in Pfizer’s US GAAP results.
subsequent distribution to its shareholders, to withhold its
consent to the exercise of the Shionogi put option and, as a
result, GSK did not recognise a liability for the put option on its
balance sheet.
52 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Group financial review continued
Our approach to tax
We understand our responsibility to pay an appropriate amount In 2019, an ongoing public focus on the tax affairs of
of tax, and fully support efforts to ensure that companies are multinational companies has included a major project of the
appropriately transparent about how their tax affairs are Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development
managed. Tax is an important element of the economic (OECD) on ‘Addressing the Tax Challenges of the Digitalisation
contribution we bring to the countries in which we operate. of the Economy’. GSK welcomes the OECD’s efforts to identify
We do not engage in artificial tax arrangements – those without a long-term, sustainable and consensus driven solution to the
business or commercial substance. We do not seek to avoid tax challenges resulting from digitalisation and has been active
tax by the use of ‘tax havens’ or transactions we would not fully in providing relevant business input to assist in the successful
disclose to a tax authority. We have a zero tolerance approach delivery of the aims of the project. In order to create a long-
to tax evasion and the facilitation of tax evasion. lasting, stable and certain business environment for both
taxpayers and Governments, a multilateral consensus-based
We have a substantial business and employment presence
approach, grounded in clearly defined and accepted principles,
in many countries around the globe and we pay a significant
is critical and the incentive to innovate must not be diluted.
amount of tax, including corporation and other business taxes,
as well as tax associated with our employees. At the same time, A continued focus on tax reform during 2019 has been driven
we have a responsibility to our shareholders to be financially by the OECD’s Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) project
efficient and deliver a sustainable tax rate. As part of this and European Commission initiatives such as fiscal state aid
approach we look to align our investment strategies to those investigations and the introduction of ‘Mandatory Disclosure’
countries where we already have substantial economic activity, rules. The outputs from the OECD BEPS projects clarified the
and where government policies promote regimes which are important principle that tax should be paid on profits throughout
attractive to business investment and R&D activity and are the supply chain, where the profit-making activity takes place.
transparent in their intent and available to all relevant tax payers. GSK is subject to taxation throughout its supply chain.
Examples include the UK Patent Box and Research and
GSK supports the BEPS proposals, in particular the
Development Expenditure Credit.
implementation of the OECD’s recommendations on ‘Country
Tax risk is managed through robust internal policies and by Country Reporting’, including the exchange of this data
processes to ensure that we have alignment across our between tax authorities. This data, validated against existing
business and compliance with tax legislation. Our Audit & Risk information held on taxpayers, will support their ability to ensure
Committee and the Board are responsible for approving our that multinational groups pay an appropriate amount of tax.
tax policies and risk management approach. We seek to
The detailed tax implications of Brexit are dependent on the
maintain open, positive relationships with governments and
outcome of negotiations between the UK and EU, and are
tax authorities worldwide and we welcome constructive
therefore currently unknown. We continue to work with the
debate on taxation policy.
Government to ensure the UK retains a trading relationship
In 2019, the Group corporate tax charge was £953 million with the EU that allows us to supply our products as swiftly
(2018 – £754 million) on profits before tax of £6,221 million as we do today to patients and consumers, with zero tariffs on
(2018 – £4,800 million) representing an effective tax rate of goods, minimal customs procedures and no VAT cash flow
15.3% (2018 – 15.7%). We made cash tax payments of cost on cross-border trade. The direct tax implications, in
£1,512 million in the year (2018 – £1,326 million). In addition particular, are expected to be limited for GSK while the indirect
to the taxes we pay on our profits, we pay duties, levies, tax implications may be more significant, including potential
transactional and employment taxes. customs duty costs and additional transaction or administrative
costs associated with managing import and export obligations
Our Adjusted tax rate for 2019 was 16.0% (2018 – 19.0%).
on the movement of goods between the UK and the EU and
The rate has benefitted from the settlement of open tax
between the UK/EU and the rest of the world. Our approach
positions in key territories. Subject to any material changes
to Brexit is set out on page 48.
in our product mix, or other material changes in tax regulations
or laws in the countries in which we operate, the Group’s Our Tax Strategy is set out in detail within the Public Policy
average effective Adjusted tax rate in the medium term is positions section of our website. Further details about our
expected to be around 19%. corporate tax charges for the year are set out on page 189.
The Group’s Total tax rate of 15.3% (2018 – 15.7%) for 2019
was lower than the Adjusted tax rate as the Total tax charge
includes the tax effect of fair value accounting movements on
the Group’s put option liabilities to ViiV Healthcare and on
hedges against shares in Hindustan Unilever Limited to be
received on disposal of Horlicks and other Consumer
Healthcare brands, and a re-assessment of estimates of
uncertain tax positions following the settlement of a number
of open issues with tax authorities.
GSK Annual Report 2019 53Group financial review continued
Financial performance
Group turnover (£bn) GSK uses a number of adjusted, non-IFRS, measures to report
Pro-forma the performance of its business. Adjusted results and other
£33.8bn AER growth CER growth CER growth non-IFRS measures may be considered in addition to, but not
10% 8% 4%
as a substitute for or superior to, information presented in
accordance with IFRS. Adjusted results and other non-IFRS
measures are defined on pages 50 to 52.
2017 30.2
The Total results of the Group are set out below.
2018 30.8 2019 2018 Growth
% of % of
2019 33.8 £m turnover £m turnover £% CER%
Turnover 33,754 100 30,821 100 10 8
0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35
Cost of sales (11,863) (35.1) (10,241) (33.2) 16 16
Selling, general and
administration (11,402) (33.8) (9,915) (32.2) 15 13
Total operating profit (£bn) Research and
development (4,568) (13.5) (3,893) (12.6) 17 15
Royalty income 351 1.1 299 1.0 17 17
£7.0bn AER growth CER growth
Other operating
27% 23%
income/(expense) 689 1.9 (1,588) (5.2)
Operating profit 6,961 20.6 5,483 17.8 27 23
Net finance costs (814) (717)
2017 4.1 Profit on disposal of
interest in associates – 3
2018 5.5 Share of after-tax
profits of associates
2019 7.0 and joint ventures 74 31
Profit before taxation 6,221 4,800 30 25
0 2 4 6 8 10
Taxation (953) (754)
Profit after taxation
for the year 5,268 4,046 30 26
Adjusted operating profit (£bn) Profit attributable to
shareholders 4,645 3,623
Pro-forma
Earnings per share (p) 93.9 73.7 27 23
£9.0bn AER growth CER growth CER growth
3% –% (3)% Earnings per ADS
(US$) 2.40 1.96
The Adjusted results for the Group are set out below.
2017 8.6 Reconciliations between Total results and Adjusted results for
2019 and 2018 are set out on page 62.
2018 8.7
2019 2018 Growth
2019 9.0 % of % of
£m turnover £m turnover £% CER%
0 2 4 6 8 10 Turnover 33,754 100 30,821 100 10 8
Cost of sales (10,079) (29.9) (9,178) (29.8) 10 10
Selling, general and
administration (10,715) (31.7) (9,462) (30.7) 13 12
Research and
development (4,339) (12.9) (3,735) (12.1) 16 14
Royalty income 351 1.1 299 1.0 17 17
Adjusted operating
profit 8,972 26.6 8,745 28.4 3 –
Adjusted profit
attributable to
shareholders 6,131 5,869 4 1
Adjusted earnings 123.9 119.4 4 1
per share (p)
54 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Group financial review continued
Financial performance continued
Group turnover Pharmaceuticals
Group turnover by business Turnover (£bn)
2019 2018 Growth Growth
£m £m £% CER% £17.6bn AER growth CER growth
2% –%
Pharmaceuticals 17,554 17,269 2 –
Vaccines 7,157 5,894 21 19 52% of Group turnover
Consumer Healthcare 8,995 7,658 17 17
Group turnover 33,706 30,821 9 8
Corporate and other 2017 17.3
unallocated turnover 48 –
2018 17.3
33,754 30,821 10 8
Pro-forma growth 4 2019 17.6
Group turnover by geographic region 0 5 10 15 20
2019 2018 Growth Growth
£m £m £% CER%
US 13,890 11,982 16 12 Pharmaceuticals turnover
Europe 8,069 7,973 1 2 2018
2019 (revised) Growth Growth
International 11,795 10,866 9 9
£m £m £% CER%
33,754 30,821 10 8 Respiratory 3,081 2,612 18 15
Group turnover for the year increased 10% AER, 8% CER HIV 4,854 4,722 3 1
to £33,754 million, with growth delivered by Vaccines and Immuno-inflammation 613 472 30 25
Consumer Healthcare, and Pharmaceuticals flat at CER. Oncology 230 – – –
Pro-forma turnover growth for the Group was 4% CER. Established Pharmaceuticals 8,776 9,463 (7) (8)
17,554 17,269 2 –
Pharmaceuticals turnover in the year was £17,554 million,
up 2% AER, but flat at CER. HIV sales were up 3% AER, Pharmaceuticals turnover in the year was £17,554 million, up
1% CER, to £4,854 million and Respiratory sales were up 2% AER, but flat at CER. HIV sales were up 3% AER, 1% CER,
18% AER, 15% CER, to £3,081 million. Sales of Established to £4,854 million, with growth in Juluca and Dovato partly offset
Pharmaceuticals were £8,776 million, down 7% AER, 8% CER. by declines in Triumeq and Tivicay. Respiratory sales were up
18% AER, 15% CER, to £3,081 million, on growth of Trelegy
Vaccines turnover grew 21% AER, 19% CER to £7,157 million,
Ellipta and Nucala. Sales of Established Pharmaceuticals were
primarily driven by growth in sales of Shingrix. Meningitis
£8,776 million, down 7% AER, 8% CER, including the impact
vaccines also contributed significantly to growth.
of loss of exclusivity of Advair.
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines Innovation sales (sales
In the US, sales declined 1% AER, 4% CER. Continued growth
of products launched in the last five years) amounted to
of Nucala, Trelegy Ellipta and Benlysta was more than offset
£3.8 billion in 2019, driven by sales of Shingrix, Trelegy
by the decline in Established Products including the loss of
Ellipta and Nucala.
exclusivity of Advair. Excluding Advair and Relvar/Breo Ellipta,
Consumer Healthcare sales grew 17% AER, 17% CER to which were impacted by genericisation of the ICS/LABA
£8,995 million. On a pro-forma basis, sales grew 2%, driven market, growth was 13% AER, 9% CER. In Europe, sales grew
by strong performance in the Oral health category, partly offset 1% AER, 2% CER, with strong growth in Respiratory partly
by a decline in Skin health. offset by a decline in Established Pharmaceuticals. International
Consumer Healthcare Innovation sales (sales of products grew 5% AER, 4% CER, with growth in all therapy areas.
new to market in the last three years) amounted to 12% of
Consumer Healthcare sales, reflecting continued focus on
Oral health innovations.
GSK Annual Report 2019 55Group financial review continued
Financial performance continued
Respiratory In the US, following the launch of Dovato in April 2019,
Total Respiratory sales were up 18% AER, 15% CER, with combined sales of the two-drug regimens were £350 million.
strong growth in all regions. Ellipta product sales grew 13% Total dolutegravir sales grew 4% AER but were flat at CER,
AER, 10% CER, with Europe up 26% AER, 27% CER and reflecting a year-on-year share decline as the business
International up 29% AER, 27% CER on Trelegy and Relvar/ transitions to the new two-drug portfolio, offset by a net price
Breo growth. Nucala was up 36% AER, 37% CER in Europe benefit. In Europe, total dolutegravir sales were flat at AER and
and 56% AER, 50% CER in International. In the US, Trelegy flat at CER, with strong growth in market share offsetting price
Ellipta and Nucala growth offset the decline in Relvar/Breo erosion and higher clawback payments. Dovato and Juluca
Ellipta on post generic ICS/LABA price pressure. reported combined sales of £65 million. International grew
strongly with total dolutegravir sales growth of 22% AER,
Sales of Nucala were £768 million in the year and grew 36%
22% CER, driven by Tivicay and Triumeq.
AER, 33% CER, with US sales of £453 million up 33% AER,
28% CER, including the impact of the new at-home use Oncology
application. Sales of Zejula, were £229 million in the period from the date of
Sales of Ellipta products were up 13% AER, 10% CER to acquisition, comprising £134 million in the US and £95 million
£2,313 million driven by growth in Europe and International in Europe.
regions. In the US, sales grew 4% AER, but were flat at CER,
Immuno-inflammation
reflecting continued competitive pricing pressures for ICS/
Sales of Benlysta in the year were up 30% AER, 25% CER to
LABAs, post generic Advair. In Europe, sales grew 26% AER,
£613 million, including sales of the sub-cutaneous formulation
27% CER, and in International by 29% AER, 27% CER. Sales
of £268 million. In the US, Benlysta grew 27% AER, 23% CER
of Trelegy Ellipta contributed £518 million globally in the year,
to £535 million.
driven by an increase in US market share.
Relvar/Breo Ellipta sales were down 11% AER, 13% CER, Established Pharmaceuticals
driven by the US, where Relvar/Breo Ellipta declined 34% AER, Sales of Established Pharmaceuticals in the year were £8,776
37% CER as a result of competitive pricing pressures and the million, down 7% AER, 8% CER.
impact of generic Advair on the US ICS/LABA market. In Established Respiratory products declined 10% AER, 11%
Europe and International, Relvar/Breo Ellipta continued to CER to £3,900 million, with the decline in Advair/Seretide
grow, up 11% AER, 12% CER in Europe, and 21% AER, partly offset by higher sales of Ventolin, Flovent and allergy
19% CER in International. products. In the US, a generic version of Advair was launched in
February, resulting in a 54% AER, 56% CER decline in the year.
HIV
In Europe, Seretide sales were down 16% AER, 16% CER to
HIV sales grew 3% AER, 1% CER to £4,854 million in the year.
£502 million, reflecting continued competition from generic
The dolutegravir franchise grew 5% AER, 2% CER, delivering
products and the transition of the Respiratory portfolio to newer
sales of £4,633 million. The remaining portfolio, £221 million
products. In International, sales of Seretide were flat at AER but
and 5% of total HIV sales, declined 27% AER, 27% CER and
down 1% CER. Globally, Ventolin grew by 27% AER, 25%
reduced the overall HIV growth by two percentage points at
CER, driven by the strong uptake of an authorised generic
AER and one percentage point at CER.
version in the US.
Sales of dolutegravir products were £4,633 million, with
The remainder of the Established Pharmaceuticals portfolio
Triumeq and Tivicay delivering sales of £2,549 million and
declined 5% AER, 6% CER to £4,876 million, including
£1,662 million, respectively. The two-drug regimens, Juluca
Lamictal down 8% AER, 10% CER to £566 million on generic
and Dovato, delivered sales of £422 million in the year with
competition and lower sales of Viread in International. These
combined growth more than offsetting the decline in the
declines were partly offset by Augmentin, up 6% AER,
three-drug regimen, Triumeq, which reflected the impact of
6% CER to £602 million in the year, driven by strong growth
competition as well as the transition of the business to
in International.
the new portfolio.
56 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Group financial review continued
Financial performance continued
Vaccines Influenza
Fluarix/FluLaval sales were up 3% AER, 1% CER to
£541 million, reflecting strong sales execution in the US,
Turnover (£bn)
partly offset by increased price competition in the US and
£7.2bn AER growth CER growth lower demand in Europe.
21% 19%
Shingles
21% of Group turnover Shingrix recorded sales of £1,810 million, primarily driven
by continued strong uptake and the favourable benefit of
prior-period rebate adjustments in the US. Germany and
2017 5.2 Canada also contributed to growth.
2018 5.9 Established Vaccines
Sales of DTPa-containing vaccines (Infanrix, Pediarix and
2019 7.2 Boostrix) grew 10% AER, 8% CER. Infanrix/Pediarix sales
grew 8% AER, 6% CER to £733 million, reflecting favourable
0 2 4 6 8 10
year-on-year US CDC stockpile movements and stronger
Vaccines turnover demand in International, partly offset by competitive pressures
in Europe. Boostrix sales were up 13% AER, 11% CER to
2019 2018 Growth Growth
£m £m £% CER% £584 million mainly due to strong demand in International
Meningitis 1,018 881 16 15 together with share gains and higher demand in the US.
Influenza 541 523 3 1
Hepatitis vaccines grew 8% AER, 6% CER to £874 million,
Shingles 1,810 784 >100 >100
primarily due to favourable year-on-year CDC stockpile
Established Vaccines 3,788 3,706 2 1
movements and the continued benefit from a competitor supply
7,157 5,894 21 19 shortage in the US, partly offset by supply constraints and lower
demand in Europe.
Vaccines turnover grew 21% AER, 19% CER to £7,157 million,
primarily driven by growth in sales of Shingrix. Meningitis Synflorix sales grew 10% AER, 11% CER to £468 million,
vaccines also contributed to growth mainly due to Bexsero primarily due to stronger demand in International.
demand and share gains in the US together with stronger
Rotarix sales were up 7% AER, 6% CER to £558 million,
demand in International. Established Vaccines grew 2% AER,
reflecting stronger demand in International and the US
1% CER to £3,788 million, primarily reflecting strong growth
together with favourable phasing in International.
in Boostrix, Hepatitis vaccines, Synflorix and Infanrix/Pediarix,
partly offset by lower Cervarix sales in International and supply MMRV vaccines sales declined 24% AER, 23% CER to
constraints in MMRV vaccines. £232 million, largely driven by supply constraints in Europe
and International.
Meningitis
Cervarix sales were down 64% AER, 64% CER to £50 million,
Meningitis sales grew 16% AER, 15% CER to £1,018 million.
reflecting lower demand and expected returns due to competitive
Bexsero sales grew 16% AER, 16% CER to £679 million,
pressure in China, together with lower demand elsewhere in
driven by demand and share gains in the US together with
International.
stronger demand in International and Europe, partly offset by
the completion of the vaccination of catch-up cohorts in
certain markets in Europe. Menveo grew 15% AER, 13% CER,
primarily reflecting improved supply and higher demand in
International.
GSK Annual Report 2019 57Group financial review continued
Financial performance continued
Consumer Healthcare Wellness
Wellness sales grew 15% AER, 14% CER to £4,526 million
for the year. On a pro-forma basis, sales were flat, with growth
Turnover (£bn)
Pro-forma in Pain relief offset by a decline in Respiratory and the phasing
£9.0bn AER growth CER growth CER growth out of low-margin contract manufacturing. Pain relief benefited
17% 17% 2% from continued strong performance of Panadol and Advil
with the latter reflecting ongoing recovery from now resolved
27% of Group turnover
supply issues. Voltaren saw weaker performance and was
also impacted by retail stock movements. Respiratory sales
declined as growth in Flonase was more than offset by weaker
2017 7.8 performance in Theraflu, following a strong cold and flu
comparator in 2018. Growth was also impacted by a decline
2018 7.7
in other Respiratory brands.
2019 9.0
Oral health
0 2 4 6 8 10 Oral health sales grew 7% AER, 7% CER to £2,673 million.
Sensodyne saw double-digit, broad-based growth, with strong
Consumer Healthcare turnover performance in the US and India benefiting from new product
2019 2018 Growth Growth innovations. Gum health grew in double digits with broad-based
£m £m £% CER% growth, while Denture care grew in mid-single digits. Oral
Wellness 4,526 3,940 15 14
health growth was also impacted by a decline in sales of
Oral health 2,673 2,496 7 7 non-strategic brands.
Nutrition 1,176 643 83 81
Skin health 620 579 7 7 Nutrition
8,995 7,658 17 17 Nutrition sales grew 83% AER, 81% CER to £1,176 million,
largely due to the inclusion of the Pfizer vitamins, minerals and
supplements portfolio. On a pro-forma basis, sales were flat,
2019 2018 Growth Growth
reflecting the strong performance of Horlicks, offset by declines
£m £m £% CER%
US 2,583 1,828 41 36 in other Nutrition products due to the alignment of in-market
Europe 2,456 2,340 5 6 inventory levels of some Pfizer brands. Growth was also
impacted by the divestment of Horlicks and Maxinutrition
International 3,956 3,490 13 14
in the UK.
8,995 7,658 17 17
Pro-forma growth 2 Skin health
Consumer Healthcare sales grew 17% AER, 17% CER in Skin health sales grew 7% AER, 7% CER to £620 million,
2019 to £8,995 million. On a pro-forma basis, sales grew 2%, largely due to the addition of ChapStick from the Pfizer portfolio.
driven by strong performance in the Oral health category, partly On a pro-forma basis, sales declined in mid-single digits, largely
offset by a decline in Skin health. At a regional level, growth due to divestments of small tail brands in the US and UK.
was driven by the US and International following the acquisition
of the Pfizer portfolio, while on a pro-forma basis growth was
driven primarily by the International region with strong
performance in India and China.
Divestments and the phasing out of low-margin contract
manufacturing had a negative impact on pro-forma growth
of approximately one percentage point.
Sales of the Consumer Healthcare business included five
months of Pfizer brand sales arising after the creation of the
joint venture. The Pfizer brands have been included in the
existing categories and geographic regions used to report
Consumer Healthcare sales. GSK expects to revise this
category structure for reporting from Q1 2020 onwards.
58 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Group financial review continued
Financial performance continued
Cost of sales This was partly offset by the continuing benefit of restructuring
2019 2018 Growth Growth in Pharmaceuticals and the tight control of ongoing costs,
£m £m £% CER% particularly in non-promotional spending across all three
Total cost of sales (11,863) (10,241) 16 16 businesses.
Adjusted cost of sales (10,079) (9,178) 10 10
Research and development
Total cost of sales as a percentage of turnover was 35.1%,
2019 2018 Growth Growth
1.9 percentage points higher at AER and 2.4 percentage points £m £m £% CER%
higher in CER terms compared with 2018. This reflected an Total research and development (4,568) (3,893) 17 15
increase in the costs of Major restructuring programmes, Adjusted research and development (4,339) (3,735) 16 14
primarily as a result of write-downs in a number of manufacturing
Total R&D expenditure was £4,568 million, 13.5% of turnover,
sites, the unwind of the fair market value uplift on inventory
up 17% AER, 15% CER. Adjusted R&D expenditure was
arising on completion of the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture
£4,339 million, 12.9% of turnover, 16% higher at AER, 14%
with Pfizer and increased amortisation of intangible assets.
higher at CER than in 2018. On a pro-forma basis, Adjusted
Excluding these and other Adjusting items, Adjusted cost of R&D expenditure grew 13% CER compared with 2018.
sales as a percentage of turnover was 29.9%, 0.1 percentage
Pharmaceuticals R&D expenditure was £3,348 million, up
points higher at AER and 0.5 percentage points higher at CER
19% AER, 16% CER, with a significant increase in study and
compared with 2018. On a pro-forma basis, Adjusted cost of
clinical trial material investment in Oncology compared with
sales as a percentage of turnover was 29.9%, 0.3 percentage
2018. This reflected the progression of assets from the Tesaro
points higher at CER, than in 2018. This reflected continued
acquisition, primarily Zejula and dostarlimab, and a number of
adverse pricing pressure in Pharmaceuticals, particularly in
other programmes, including belantamab mafodotin, NY-ESO,
Respiratory, an unfavourable product mix in Pharmaceuticals
ICOS and bintrafusp alfa, as well as increased spending on the
and a number of non-restructuring related write-downs in
progression of key non-Oncology assets, such as aGM-CSF
manufacturing sites. This was partly offset by a more favourable
for rheumatoid arthritis. This was partly offset by savings from
product mix in Vaccines, primarily due to growth of Shingrix in
the early phase portfolio reprioritisation in late 2018. R&D
the US, a favourable impact of inventory adjustments in Vaccines
expenditure in Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare was
and a further contribution from integration and restructuring
£718 million and £273 million, respectively.
savings in Pharmaceuticals and Consumer Healthcare.
Selling, general and administration Royalty income
Royalty income was £351 million (2018 – £299 million), up
2019 2018 Growth Growth
£m £m £% CER% 17% AER, 17% CER, primarily reflecting increased royalties
Total selling, general and on sales of Gardasil.
administration (11,402) (9,915) 15 13
Adjusted selling, general and Other operating income/(expense)
administration (10,715) (9,462) 13 12 Net other operating income of £689 million (2018 – £1,588
million expense) primarily reflected the profit on disposal of
Total SG&A costs as a percentage of turnover were 33.8%,
rabies and tick-borne encephalitis vaccines (£306 million) and
1.6 percentage points higher at AER and 1.6 percentage points
a number of other asset disposals, together with an increase in
higher at CER compared with 2018. This included increased
value of the shares in Hindustan Unilever Limited to be received
significant legal charges arising from the settlement of existing
on the disposal of Horlicks and other Consumer Healthcare
matters and provisions for ongoing litigation, costs related to
brands. The cumulative increase in value since the signing
the acquisition of the Pfizer consumer healthcare business and
of the proposed transaction was £240 million.
a reversal of an indemnity receivable from Novartis following a
tax settlement, with an equivalent release of a tax provision Other income also included accounting credits of £127 million
which was reflected in the tax charge, as well as increased (2018 – £1,846 million expense) arising from the
restructuring costs. remeasurement of the contingent consideration liabilities related
to the acquisitions of the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint
Excluding these and other Adjusting items, Adjusted SG&A
venture and the former Novartis Vaccines business and the
costs as a percentage of turnover were 31.7%, 1.0 percentage
liabilities for the Pfizer put option and Pfizer and Shionogi
point higher at AER than in 2018 and 1.0 percentage point
preferential dividends in ViiV Healthcare. This included a
higher on a CER basis. On a pro-forma basis, Adjusted SG&A
remeasurement charge of £31 million (2018 – £1,188 million)
costs as a percentage of turnover was 31.7%, 0.8 percentage
for the contingent consideration liability due to Shionogi,
points higher at CER, compared with 2018.
primarily arising from the unwind of the discounting, partly offset
The growth in Adjusted SG&A costs of 13% AER, 12% CER by changes in exchange rate assumptions and sales forecasts.
and 7% CER on a pro-forma basis reflected increased 2018 also included a remeasurement charge of £658 million in
investment resulting from the acquisition of Tesaro and in relation to the Consumer Healthcare put option.
promotional product support, particularly for new launches in
Vaccines, Respiratory and HIV, as well as increased costs for
a number of legal settlements.
GSK Annual Report 2019 59Group financial review continued
Financial performance continued
Operating profit This was partly offset by the continued benefit of restructuring
Total operating profit was £6,961 million in 2019 compared and tight control of ongoing costs and the benefits of
with £5,483 million in 2018. Reduced remeasurement charges re-prioritisation of the R&D portfolio.
on the contingent consideration liabilities, no Consumer
Vaccines operating profit was £2,966 million, 53% AER, 46%
Healthcare put option charge, increased profits on disposals
CER higher than in 2018 on a turnover increase of 19% CER.
and an increase in value of the shares in Hindustan Unilever
The operating margin of 41.4% was 8.5 percentage points
Limited to be received on the disposal of Horlicks and other
higher at AER than in 2018 and 7.3 percentage points higher on
Consumer Healthcare brands were partly offset by increased
a CER basis. This was primarily driven by enhanced operating
charges for Major restructuring, primarily arising from write-
leverage from strong sales growth, particularly Shingrix in the
downs in a number of manufacturing sites and costs to integrate
US, improved product mix and higher royalty income. Increased
the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture, and increased
SG&A investment to support business growth was partly offset
significant legal charges.
by income from one-off settlements.
Excluding these and other Adjusting items, Adjusted operating
Consumer Healthcare operating profit was £1,874 million, up
profit was £8,972 million, 3% higher than 2018 at AER but
24% AER, 22% CER higher on a turnover increase of 17%
flat at CER on a turnover increase of 8% CER. The Adjusted
CER. On a pro-forma basis, operating profit was £1,874 million,
operating margin of 26.6% was 1.8 percentage points lower at
4% CER higher on a turnover increase of 2% CER. The
AER, and 2.1 percentage points lower on a CER basis than in
operating margin of 20.8% was 1.0 percentage point higher
2018. On a pro-forma basis, Adjusted operating profit was 3%
at AER and 0.9 percentage points higher on a CER basis
lower at CER on a turnover increase of 4% CER. The Adjusted
than in 2018. The pro-forma operating margin of 20.8% was
pro-forma operating margin of 26.6% was 1.9 percentage
0.5 percentage points higher on a CER basis. This primarily
points lower on a CER basis than in 2018.
reflected continued manufacturing restructuring savings,
The reduction in pro-forma Adjusted operating profit primarily improved growth from higher margin power brands and the
reflected continuing price pressure, particularly in Respiratory, divestment of lower margin tail products, as well as tight control
including the impact of the launch of a generic version of Advair of other operating expenses, partly offset by increased
in the US in February 2019, investment in R&D including a investment in promotion.
significant increase in Oncology investment, partly on the
Net finance costs
assets from the Tesaro acquisition, and investments in
promotional product support, particularly for new launches 2018
2019 (revised)
in Vaccines, HIV and Respiratory. This was partly offset by Finance income £m £m
the benefit from sales growth, particularly in Vaccines, a Interest and other income 79 74
more favourable mix in Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare, Fair value movements 19 7
favourable inventory adjustments in Vaccines and the continued 98 81
benefit of restructuring with tight control of ongoing costs
across all three businesses. Finance expense
Interest expense (840) (715)
Contingent consideration cash payments which are made
Unwinding of discounts on provisions (8) (15)
to Shionogi and other companies reduce the balance sheet
Remeasurements and fair value movements (1) 3
liability and hence are not recorded in the income statement.
Total contingent consideration cash payments in 2019 Finance expense on lease liabilities (39) (2)
amounted to £893 million (2018 – £1,137 million), including Other finance expense (24) (69)
payments to Shionogi of £865 million (2018 – £793 million). (912) (798)
Total net finance costs were £814 million compared with
Operating profit by business
£717 million in 2018. Adjusted net finance costs were
Pharmaceuticals operating profit was £4,595 million, down
£810 million compared with £698 million in 2018. The increase
20% AER, 22% CER with turnover flat at CER. The operating
primarily reflected higher debt levels following the acquisition
margin of 26.2% was 7.1 percentage points lower at AER than
from Novartis of its stake in the Consumer Healthcare Joint
in 2018 and 7.2 percentage points lower on a CER basis. This
Venture in June 2018 and the acquisition of Tesaro in January
primarily reflected the increase in cost of sales percentage
2019, as well as an adverse comparison with a one-off
due to the continued impact of lower prices, particularly in
accounting adjustment of £20 million to amortisation of interest
Respiratory, including the impact of the launch of a generic
charges in 2018. This was partly offset by the benefit from older
version of Advair in the US in February 2019, an unfavourable
bonds being refinanced at lower interest rates, a fair value gain
product mix, primarily as a result of the decline in Advair and
on interest rate swaps and interest of £23 million in Q3 2018 on
growth in lower margin products, a significant increase in
an historic tax settlement. Following the introduction of IFRS 16,
Oncology R&D and investment in new product support and
‘Leases’, finance costs included an unwind of the discount on
targeted priority markets, together with a number of non-
the lease liability of £39 million in the year.
restructuring related write-downs in manufacturing sites and
higher legal costs.
60 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Group financial review continued
Financial performance continued
Share of after-tax profits of associates and joint ventures Earnings per share
The share of after-tax profits of associates was £74 million Total earnings per share was 93.9p, compared with 73.7p in
(2018 – £31 million). This included a one-off adjustment of 2018. The increase in earnings per share primarily reflected
£51 million to reflect GSK’s share of increased after-tax profits reduced remeasurement charges on the contingent
of Innoviva primarily as a result of a non-recurring income tax consideration liabilities and put options, an increase in the
benefit. value of the shares in Hindustan Unilever Limited to be received
on the disposal of Horlicks and other Consumer Healthcare
Profit before tax
brands, a reduced effective tax rate and the increased share
Taking account of net finance costs and the share of profits of
of after-tax profit of the associate Innoviva.
associates, profit before taxation was £6,221 million compared
with £4,800 million in 2018. Adjusted EPS of 123.9p compared with 119.4p in 2018, up
4% AER, 1% CER, with Adjusted operating profit flat at CER.
Taxation The improvement primarily resulted from a reduced effective
tax rate and an increased share of after-tax profits of associates
2019 2018 as a result of a non-recurring income tax benefit in Innoviva,
£m £m partly offset by increased net finance costs and a higher
UK current year charge 149 234
non-controlling interest allocation of Consumer Healthcare
Rest of world current year charge 1,407 1,426
profits.
Charge in respect of prior periods (420) (492)
Total current taxation 1,136 1,168 Dividends
Total deferred taxation (183) (414) The Board declared four interim dividends resulting in a total
Taxation on total profits 953 754 dividend for the year of 80 pence, in line with the dividend
declared for 2018. See Note 16 to the financial statements,
The charge of £953 million represented an effective tax rate
‘Dividends’.
on Total results of 15.3% (2018 – 15.7%) and reflected the
different tax effects of the various Adjusting items. Tax on Dividend policy
Adjusted profit amounted to £1,318 million and represented an GSK recognises the importance of dividends to shareholders
effective Adjusted tax rate of 16.0% (2018 – 19.0%), reflecting and aims to distribute regular dividend payments that will be
the impact of the settlement of a number of open issues with determined primarily with reference to the free cash flow
tax authorities. generated by the business after funding the investment
necessary to support the Group’s future growth.
Issues related to taxation are described in Note 14, to the
financial statements ‘Taxation’. The Group continues to believe The Board intends to maintain the dividend for 2020 at the
it has made adequate provision for the liabilities likely to arise current level of 80p per share, subject to any material change
from periods which are open and not yet agreed by tax in the external environment or performance expectations.
authorities. The ultimate liability for such matters may vary from Over time, as free cash flow strengthens, it intends to build
the amounts provided and is dependent upon the outcome of free cash flow cover of the annual dividend to a target range
agreements with relevant tax authorities. of 1.25 - 1.50x, before returning the dividend to growth.
Non-controlling interests Outlook
The allocation of Total earnings to non-controlling interests Our outlook for 2020 reflects our expectations for growth in key
amounted to £623 million (2018 – £423 million). The increase new products, and the start of a two-year period in which we
was primarily due to an increased allocation of ViiV Healthcare will continue to increase investment in these products and in our
profits of £482 million (2018 – £251 million) and higher net R&D pipeline, alongside implementation of our new programme
profits in some of the Group’s other entities with non-controlling which will prepare the Group for separation.
interests. This was partly offset by the lower allocation of
In 2020 we expect Adjusted EPS to decline in the range of
Consumer Healthcare profits of £70 million (2018 – £117
-1% to -4% at CER. This guidance excludes any impact in 2020
million) following the buyout of Novartis’ interest in June 2018
from any further material divestments beyond those previously
and the completion of the new Consumer Healthcare Joint
announced and any potential impact on our business from the
Venture with Pfizer on 31 July 2019, and which included the
coronavirus outbreak.
unwind of the fair value uplift on acquired inventory.
All expectations, guidance and targets regarding future
The allocation of Adjusted earnings to non-controlling interests
performance and dividend payments should be read together
amounted to £787 million (2018 – £674 million). The increase
with ‘Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking
in allocation reflected an increased allocation of Consumer
statements’ and ‘Assumptions related to 2016-2020 outlook’
Healthcare profits of £204 million (2018 – £118 million), an
on the inside back cover.
increased allocation of ViiV Healthcare profits of £512 million
(2018 – £501 million) and higher net profits in some of the
Group’s other entities with non-controlling interests.
GSK Annual Report 2019 61Group financial review continued
Adjusting items
Divestments,
Intangible Intangible significant
Adjusted results reconciliation Total asset asset Major Transaction- legal and Adjusted
results amortisation impairment restructuring related other items results
31 December 2019 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 33,754 33,754
Cost of sales (11,863) 713 30 658 383 – (10,079)
Gross profit 21,891 713 30 658 383 – 23,675
Selling, general and administration (11,402) 4 332 104 247 (10,715)
Research and development (4,568) 64 49 114 2 (4,339)
Royalty income 351 351
Other operating (expense)/income 689 1 (142) (548) –
Operating profit 6,961 777 83 1,105 345 (299) 8,972
Net finance costs (814) 5 (1) (810)
Share of after-tax profits of associates and joint ventures 74 74
Profit before taxation 6,221 777 83 1,110 345 (300) 8,236
Taxation (953) (156) (17) (208) (124) 140 (1,318)
Tax rate 15.3% 16.0%
Profit after taxation 5,268 621 66 902 221 (160) 6,918
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 623 164 787
Profit attributable to shareholders 4,645 621 66 902 57 (160) 6,131
Earnings per share 93.9p 12.6p 1.3p 18.2p 1.2p (3.3)p 123.9p
Weighted average number of shares (millions) 4,947 4,947
Divestments,
Intangible Intangible significant
Adjusted results reconciliation Total asset asset Major Transaction- legal and Adjusted
results amortisation impairment restructuring related other items results
31 December 2018 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 30,821 30,821
Cost of sales (10,241) 536 69 443 15 – (9,178)
Gross profit 20,580 536 69 443 15 – 21,643
Selling, general and administration (9,915) 2 315 98 38 (9,462)
Research and development (3,893) 44 45 49 20 (3,735)
Royalty income 299 299
Other operating (expense)/income (1,588) 2 1,864 (278) –
Operating profit 5,483 580 116 809 1,977 (220) 8,745
Net finance costs (717) 4 (3) 18 (698)
Profit on disposal of associates 3 (3) –
Share of after-tax profits of associates and joint ventures 31 31
Profit before taxation 4,800 580 116 813 1,974 (205) 8,078
Taxation (754) (109) (19) (170) (239) (244) (1,535)
Tax rate 15.7% 19.0%
Profit after taxation 4,046 471 97 643 1,735 (449) 6,543
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 423 251 674
Profit attributable to shareholders 3,623 471 97 643 1,484 (449) 5,869
Earnings per share 73.7p 9.6p 2.0p 13.1p 30.2p (9.2)p 119.4p
Weighted average number of shares (millions) 4,914 4,914
62 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Group financial review continued
Adjusting items continued
Major restructuring and integration The analysis of Major restructuring charges by Income
Within the Pharmaceuticals sector, the highly-regulated statement line was as follows:
manufacturing operations and supply chains and long life-cycle
2019 2018
of the business mean that restructuring programmes, particularly £m £m
those that involve the rationalisation or closure of manufacturing Cost of sales 658 443
or R&D sites, are likely to take several years to complete. Selling, general and administration 332 315
Research and development 114 49
Major restructuring costs are those related to specific Board-
approved Major restructuring programmes and are excluded Other operating income/(expense) 1 2
from Adjusted results. Major restructuring programmes, Total Major restructuring charges 1,105 809
including integration costs following material acquisitions, are
The Combined restructuring and integration programme
those that are structural and are of a significant scale where the
delivered incremental annual cost savings in the year of
costs of individual or related projects exceed £25 million. Other
£0.3 billion. The 2018 major restructuring programme delivered
ordinary course smaller-scale restructuring costs are retained
incremental cost savings in the year of £0.2 billion.
within Total and Adjusted results.
Total cash charges for the Combined restructuring and
Total Major restructuring charges incurred in 2019 were
integration programme are now expected to be approximately
£1,105 million (2018 – £809 million), analysed as follows:
£4.0 billion with non-cash charges of £1.4 billion. The total of
2019 2018 £5.4 billion represents a reduction of £0.3 billion from the
Non- Non- originally approved £5.7 billion. The programme has now
Cash cash Total Cash cash Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m delivered approximately £4.2 billion of annual savings, including
2018 major an estimated currency benefit of £0.2 billion. The programme is
restructuring expected to deliver by the end of 2020 total annual savings of
programme £4.3 billion on a constant currency basis, including an
(incl. Tesaro) 227 572 799 279 90 369
estimated benefit of £0.2 billion from currency on the basis of
Consumer 2019 average exchange rates. The programme is substantially
Healthcare Joint
complete and therefore GSK will cease external reporting of
Venture integration
total costs and benefits of the Combined restructuring and
programme 248 4 252 – – –
integration programme from 2020 onwards.
Combined
restructuring The Group acquired Tesaro in January 2019, and is expected
and integration
to incur around £50 million of integration and restructuring
programme 10 44 54 330 110 440
cash costs, leading to annual cost-saving benefits of around
485 620 1,105 609 200 809
£50 million. This has been added to and reported as part of the
Cash charges primarily arose from restructuring of the existing 2018 major restructuring programme.
manufacturing organisation, R&D and some administrative
The 2018 major restructuring programme, now including
functions as well as the integration of Tesaro under the 2018
Tesaro, is expected to cost £1.75 billion over the period to
major restructuring programme and integration costs under the
2021, with cash costs of £0.85 billion and non-cash costs of
Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture integration programme.
£0.9 billion, and is expected to deliver annual savings of around
Non-cash charges under the 2018 major restructuring
£450 million by 2021 (at 2019 rates). These savings are
programme primarily related to announced plans to restructure
intended to be fully re-invested to help fund targeted increases
the manufacturing network.
in R&D and commercial support of new products.
Total cash payments made in 2019 were £645 million, The completion of the new Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture
£316 million for the existing Combined restructuring and with Pfizer is expected to realise substantial cost synergies,
integration programme (2018 – £528 million) and £164 million generating total annual cost savings of £0.5 billion by 2022
(2018 – £9 million) under the 2018 major restructuring for expected cash costs of £0.7 billion and non-cash charges
programme including the settlement of certain charges accrued of £0.3 billion, plus additional capital expenditure of £0.2 billion.
in previous quarters and a further £165 million relating to the Up to 25% of the cost savings are intended to be reinvested
Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture integration programme. in the business to support innovation and other growth
The analysis of Major restructuring charges by business was opportunities.
as follows:
The Group has initiated a two-year Separation Preparation
2019 2018 programme to prepare for the separation of GSK into two
£m £m
companies: New GSK, a biopharma company with an R&D
Pharmaceuticals 651 563
Vaccines 58 104 approach focused on science related to the immune system,
the use of genetics and new technologies, and a new leader in
Consumer Healthcare 321 72
Consumer Healthcare.
1,030 739
Corporate and central functions 75 70
Total Major restructuring charges 1,105 809
GSK Annual Report 2019 63Group financial review continued
Adjusting items continued
The programme aims to: Divestments, significant legal charges and other items
– drive a common approach to R&D with improved capital Divestments and other items included a profit on disposal of
allocation rabies and tick-borne encephalitis vaccines (£306 million), a
– align and improve the capabilities and efficiency of global gain in the year of £143 million arising from the increase in value
support functions to support New GSK of the shares in Hindustan Unilever Limited to be received on
the disposal of Horlicks and other Consumer Healthcare
– further optimise the supply chain and product portfolio,
brands, as well as equity investment impairments and certain
including the divestment of non-core assets. A strategic
other Adjusting items together with the profit on a number of
review of prescription dermatology is underway
asset disposals. A charge of £251 million (2018 – £33 million)
– prepare Consumer Healthcare to operate as a standalone
for significant legal matters included the settlement of existing
company
matters as well as provisions for ongoing litigation. Significant
The programme will target delivery of £0.7 billion of annual legal cash payments were £294 million (2018 – £39 million).
savings by 2022 and £0.8 billion by 2023, with total costs
estimated at £2.4 billion, of which £1.6 billion is expected to Pro-forma growth reconciliations
be cash costs. The proceeds of anticipated divestments are The tables below set out reconciliations between reported CER
largely expected to cover the cash costs of the programme. growth rates and pro-forma CER growth rates and between
Additional one-time costs to prepare Consumer Healthcare reported margin percentages and pro-forma margin percentages.
for separation are estimated at £600-700 million, excluding Adjustment to
transaction costs. include
August to
December
Transaction-related adjustments
2018 results
Transaction-related adjustments resulted in a net charge of of Pfizer
Reported consumer Pro-forma
£345 million (2018 – £1,977 million). This included a net growth rate healthcare growth rate
£127 million accounting credit for the remeasurement of the CER% business CER%
contingent consideration liabilities related to the acquisitions Group
of the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture and the Turnover 8 (4) 4
former Novartis Vaccines business and the liabilities for the Adjusted cost of sales 10 (5) 5
Pfizer put option and Pfizer and Shionogi preferential Adjusted selling, general and
dividends in ViiV Healthcare. administration 12 (5) 7
Adjusted research and development 14 (1) 13
2019 2018
Charge/(credit) £m £m Adjusted operating profit – (3) (3)
Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture put option – 658 Consumer Healthcare
Contingent consideration on former Shionogi-ViiV Turnover 17 (15) 2
Healthcare Joint Venture (including Shionogi Wellness sales 14 (14) –
preferential dividends) 31 1,188
Nutrition sales 81 (81) –
ViiV Healthcare put options and Pfizer preferential
Skin health sales 7 (12) (5)
dividends (234) (58)
Operating profit 22 (18) 4
Contingent consideration on former Novartis
Vaccines business 76 58
The 2018 pro-forma financial information used as the basis for
Release of fair value uplift on acquired Pfizer
the pro-forma growth rates has been calculated as follows:
inventory 366 –
Other adjustments 106 131 August to
December
Total transaction-related charges 345 1,977 2018 results
GSK of Pfizer
The £31 million charge relating to the contingent consideration reported consumer Pro-forma
results healthcare results
for the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture represented
2018 business 2018
an increase in the valuation of the contingent consideration due £bn £bn £bn
to Shionogi, primarily as a result of a £435 million unwind of the Group
discount, partly offset by updated exchange rate assumptions Turnover 30.8 1.2 32.0
and adjustments to sales forecasts. The £234 million credit Adjusted cost of sales (9.2) (0.4) (9.6)
relating to the ViiV Healthcare put options and Pfizer preferential Adjusted selling, general and
dividends represented a reduction in the valuation of the put administration (9.5) (0.4) (9.9)
option as a result of adjustments to multiples and sales forecasts Adjusted research and development (3.7) (0.1) (3.8)
as well as updated exchange rate assumptions. Adjusted operating profit 8.7 0.3 9.0
Consumer Healthcare
Other adjustments included transaction costs arising on
Turnover 7.7 1.1 8.8
completion of the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture with Pfizer,
Wellness sales 4.0 0.5 4.5
as well as a reversal of an indemnity receivable from Novartis
Nutrition sales 0.6 0.5 1.1
following a tax settlement, with an equivalent release
Skin health sales 0.6 0.1 0.7
of a tax provision. An explanation of the accounting for the
Operating profit 1.5 0.3 1.8
non-controlling interests in ViiV Healthcare is set out on page 51.
64 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Group financial review continued
Cash generation and conversion
A summary of the consolidated cash flow statement is set out Reconciliation of net cash inflow from operating activities
below. to free cash flow
A reconciliation of net cash inflow from operating activities,
2019 2018
£m £m which is the closest equivalent IFRS measure to free cash flow,
Net cash inflow from operating activities 8,020 8,421 is shown below.
Net cash outflow from investing activities (5,354) (1,553)
2019 2018
Net cash outflow from financing activities (1,840) (6,389) £m £m
Increase/(decrease) in cash and bank overdrafts 826 479 Net cash inflow from operating activities 8,020 8,421
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (1,265) (1,344)
Cash and bank overdrafts at beginning of year 4,087 3,600
Purchase of intangible assets (898) (452)
Increase in cash and bank overdrafts 826 479
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 95 168
Exchange adjustments (82) 8
Proceeds from disposal of intangible assets 404 256
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year 4,831 4,087
Interest paid (895) (766)
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year comprise: Interest received 82 72
Cash and cash equivalents 4,707 3,874 Dividends from associates and joint ventures 7 39
Cash and cash equivalents reported in assets Contingent consideration paid (reported in
held for sale 507 485 investing activities) (113) (153)
Overdrafts (383) (272)
Contribution from non-controlling interests – 21
4,831 4,087
Distributions to non-controlling interests (364) (570)
Capital expenditure and financial investment Free cash flow 5,073 5,692
Cash payments for tangible and intangible fixed assets
Future cash flow
amounted to £2,163 million (2018 – £1,796 million) and
Over the long term, we expect that future cash generated from
disposals realised £603 million (2018 – £453 million).
operations will be sufficient to fund our operating and debt
Cash payments to acquire equity investments amounted
servicing costs, normal levels of capital expenditure, obligations
to £258 million (2018 – £309 million), primarily relating to
under existing licensing agreements, expenditure arising from
Lyell Immunopharma, and sales of equity investments realised
restructuring programmes and other routine outflows including
£69 million (2018 – £151 million).
tax, pension contributions and dividends, subject to the
Free cash flow ‘Principal risks and uncertainties’ discussed on pages 275 to
Free cash flow is the amount of cash generated by the Group 287. We may from time to time have additional demands for
after meeting our obligations for contingent consideration, finance, such as for acquisitions, including potentially acquiring
interest, tax and dividends paid to non-controlling interests, increased ownership interests in the ViiV Healthcare business
and after capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment where minority shareholders hold put options. We have access
and intangible assets. to multiple sources of liquidity from short and long-term capital
markets and financial institutions for such needs, in addition to
2019 2018
£m £m the cash flow from operations.
Free cash inflow 5,073 5,692
Investment appraisal and capital allocation
The reduction in free cash flow primarily reflected the adverse
We have a strong framework for capital allocation, including
timing of payments for returns and rebates, as well as the initial
a board to govern the allocation of capital between our
step-down impact from US Advair generic competition,
businesses. We utilise a consistent cash return on invested
increased capital expenditure including the acquisition of
capital (CROIC) methodology to prioritise investment across
intangible assets, higher restructuring payments and higher
the Group as a whole, so that we can more effectively compare
significant legal costs. This was partly offset by improved
the returns from each of the businesses as we allocate capital
operating profits including currency benefits, a reduction in
between them. We also consider the impact on EPS and our
inventory and a lower increase in trade receivables, lower
credit profile where relevant.
contingent consideration payments compared with 2018,
which included a milestone payment to Novartis, lower dividend
payments to non-controlling interests and the reclassification of
lease payments from operating to financing activities following
the transition to IFRS 16.
Total cash payments to Shionogi in relation to the ViiV
Healthcare contingent consideration liability in the year were
£865 million (2018 – £793 million), of which £767 million
was recognised in cash flows from operating activities and
£98 million was recognised in contingent consideration paid
within investing cash flows. These payments are deductible
for tax purposes.
GSK Annual Report 2019 65Group financial review continued
Financial position and resources
2019 2018 Acquisition of Pfizer consumer healthcare business
£m £m
As the acquisition of the Pfizer consumer healthcare business
Assets
was a non-cash transaction, it resulted in an increase in net
Non-current assets
assets of £15.0 billion, including intangible assets of
Property, plant and equipment 10,348 11,058
£12.4 billion and goodwill of £3.9 billion. This reflected the
Right of use assets 966 –
recognition of Pfizer’s non-controlling interest in the Consumer
Goodwill 10,562 5,789
Healthcare Joint Venture of £6.9 billion and a gain in retained
Other intangible assets 30,955 17,202
earnings of £8.1 billion representing the difference between
Investments in associates and joint ventures 314 236
fair value and book value of the 32% of GSK’s Consumer
Other investments 1,837 1,322
Healthcare business transferred to Pfizer.
Deferred tax assets 4,096 3,887
Derivative financial instruments 103 69 Property, plant and equipment
Other non-current assets 1,020 1,576 Our business is science-based, technology-intensive and highly
Total non-current assets 60,201 41,139 regulated by governmental authorities. We allocate significant
financial resources to the renewal and maintenance of our
Current assets
property, plant and equipment to minimise risks of interruption to
Inventories 5,947 5,476
production and to ensure compliance with regulatory standards.
Current tax recoverable 262 229
A number of our processes use hazardous materials.
Trade and other receivables 7,202 6,423
Derivative financial instruments 421 188 The total cost of our property, plant and equipment at
31 December 2019 was £21,599 million, with a net book value
Liquid investments 79 84
of £10,348 million. Of this, land and buildings represented
Cash and cash equivalents 4,707 3,874
£4,037 million, plant and equipment £4,425 million and assets
Assets held for sale 873 653
in construction £1,886 million. In 2019, we invested £1,640
Total current assets 19,491 16,927
million in new property, plant and equipment. This was mainly
Total assets 79,692 58,066
related to a large number of projects for the renewal,
Liabilities improvement and expansion of facilities at various worldwide
Current liabilities sites to support new product development and launches as well
Short-term borrowings (6,918) (5,793) as to improve the efficiency of existing supply chains. Property
Contingent consideration liabilities (755) (837) is mainly held freehold. New investment is financed from our
Trade and other payables (14,939) (14,037) liquid resources. At 31 December 2019, we had contractual
Derivative financial instruments (188) (127) commitments for future capital expenditure of £413 million.
Current tax payable (629) (965) We believe that our property and plant facilities are adequate
Short-term provisions (621) (732) for our current needs.
Total current liabilities (24,050) (22,491) We observe stringent procedures and use specialist skills to
manage environmental risks from our activities. Environmental
Non-current liabilities
issues, sometimes dating from operations now modified or
Long-term borrowings (23,590) (20,271)
discontinued, are reported under ‘Environment’ on page 41
Corporation tax payable (189) (272)
and in Note 46 to the financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’.
Deferred tax liabilities (3,810) (1,156)
Pensions and other post-employment benefits (3,457) (3,125) Right of use assets
Other provisions (670) (691) Right of use assets amounted to £966 million at 31 December
Derivative financial instruments (1) (1) 2019 compared with £1,071 million on 1 January 2019,
Contingent consideration liabilities (4,724) (5,449) following the implementation of IFRS 16. The decrease in
Other non-current liabilities (844) (938) the year reflected the impact of depreciation and disposals
Total non-current liabilities (37,285) (31,903) of £214 million and £64 million respectively, partly offset
Total liabilities (61,335) (54,394) by additions, including from business combinations, of
Net assets 18,357 3,672 £211 million.
Total equity 18,357 3,672 Goodwill
Goodwill increased to £10,562 million at 31 December 2019,
from £5,789 million, primarily reflecting additions of £3,854
million arising from the acquisition of the Pfizer consumer
healthcare business and £1,169 million from the acquisition
of Tesaro, Inc.
66 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Group financial review continued
Financial position and resources continued
Other intangible assets Derivative financial instruments: liabilities
Other intangible assets include the cost of intangibles acquired We held current and non-current derivative financial liabilities
from third parties and computer software. The net book value at fair value of £189 million (2018 – £128 million). This primarily
of other intangible assets as at 31 December 2019 was related to foreign exchange contracts both designated and not
£30,955 million (2018 – £17,202 million). The increase primarily designated as accounting hedges.
reflected additions of £12,357 million from the acquisition of the
Trade and other payables
Pfizer consumer healthcare business and £3,092 million from
At 31 December 2019, trade and other payables were
the acquisition of Tesaro, Inc.
£14,939 million compared with £14,037 million at
Investments in associates and joint ventures 31 December 2018. The increase primarily reflected higher
We held investments in associates and joint ventures with payables in Consumer Healthcare following the Pfizer
a carrying value at 31 December 2019 of £314 million acquisition in the year, partly offset by exchange movements.
(2018 – £236 million). The market value at 31 December 2019
Provisions
was £396 million (2018 – £487 million). The largest of these
We carried deferred tax provisions and other short-term and
investments was in Innoviva Inc., which had a book value at
non-current provisions of £5,101 million at 31 December 2019
31 December 2019 of £261 million (2018 – £189 million)
(2018 – £2,579 million). Other provisions at the year-end
and a market value of £343 million. See Note 21 to the financial
included £198 million (2018 – £219 million) related to legal and
statements, ‘Investments in associates and joint ventures’.
other disputes and £505 million (2018 – £641 million) related
Other investments to Major restructuring programmes. Provision has been made
We held other investments with a carrying value at 31 for legal and other disputes, indemnified disposal liabilities,
December 2019 of £1,837 million (2018 – £1,322 million). The employee related liabilities and the costs of the restructuring
highest value investments held at 31 December 2019 were in programme to the extent that at the balance sheet date a legal or
23andMe, which had a book value at 31 December 2019 of constructive obligation existed and could be reliably estimated.
£227 million (2018 – £229 million), Progyny, Inc, which had a
Pensions and other post-employment benefits
book value of £213 million (2018 – £21 million) and Theravance
We account for pension and other post-employment
Biopharma, Inc., which had a book value at 31 December 2019
arrangements in accordance with IAS 19. The net deficits were
of £189 million (2018 – £194 million). The other investments
£1,921 million (2018 – £995 million) on pension arrangements
included equity stakes in companies with which we have
and £1,418 million (2018 – £1,379 million) on unfunded
research collaborations, and which provide access to
post-employment liabilities. See Note 30 to the financial
biotechnology developments of potential interest and interests
statements, ‘Pensions and other post-employment benefits’.
in companies that arise from business divestments.
Other non-current liabilities
Derivative financial instruments: assets
Other non-current liabilities amounted to £844 million at
We had current derivative financial assets held at fair value of
31 December 2019 (2018 – £938 million).
£421 million (2018 – £188 million) and non-current derivative
financial assets held at fair value of £103 million (2018 – Contingent consideration liabilities
£69 million). £240 million of current derivative financial assets
Contingent consideration amounted to £5,479 million at
related to a derivative embedded in the agreement to divest
31 December 2019 (2018 – £6,286 million), of which
Horlicks and other nutritional brands to Unilever plc. See Note
£5,103 million (2018 – £5,937 million) represented the estimated
40 for further information. The majority of the remainder of these
present value of amounts payable to Shionogi relating to ViiV
financial instruments related to foreign exchange contracts both
Healthcare and £339 million (2018 – £296 million) represented
designated and not designated as accounting hedges.
the estimated present value of contingent consideration payable
to Novartis related to the Vaccines acquisition.
Inventories
Inventory of £5,947 million increased from £5,476 million The liability due to Shionogi included £222 million in respect
in 2018 primarily reflecting the higher inventory in Consumer of preferential dividends. The liability for preferential dividends
Healthcare following the Pfizer acquisition in the year, partly due to Pfizer at 31 December 2019 was £4 million (2018 –
offset by the impact of exchange movements. £15 million). An explanation of the accounting for the non-
controlling interests in ViiV Healthcare is set out on page 51.
Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables of £7,202 million increased from Of the contingent consideration payable (on a post-tax basis)
£6,423 million in 2018, primarily reflecting the impact of higher at 31 December 2019, £755 million (2018 – £837 million) is
sales, particularly in Vaccines, partly offset by better collections expected to be paid within one year. The consideration payable
and exchange movements. is expected to be paid over a number of years. As a result, the
total estimated liabilities are discounted to their present values,
Deferred tax assets on a post-tax basis using post-tax discount rates. The Shionogi-
Deferred tax assets amounted to £4,096 million (2018 – ViiV Healthcare contingent consideration liability is discounted
£3,887 million) at 31 December 2019. at 8.5% and the Novartis Vaccines contingent consideration
liability is discounted partly at 8% and partly at 9%.
GSK Annual Report 2019 67Group financial review continued
Financial position and resources continued
Maturity profile of bond debt
£m equivalent
3,500
3,000
2,500
2,000
1,500
1,000
500
0
2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029 2030 2033 2034 2038 2039 2042 2043 2045
GBP bonds EUR bonds USD bonds
Net debt Cash and liquid investments of £3.6 billion (2018 – £2.9 billion)
2019 2018 were held centrally at 31 December 2019.
£m £m
The analysis of cash and gross debt after the effects of hedging
Cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments 4,786 3,958
is as follows.
Cash, cash equivalents reported in assets
held for sale 507 485 2019 2018
Borrowings – repayable within one year (6,918) (5,793) £m £m
Cash and liquid investments 5,293 4,443
Borrowings – repayable after one year (23,590) (20,271)
Gross debt – fixed1 (25,064) (21,603)
Net debt (25,215) (21,621)
– floating (5,444) (4,432)
At 31 December 2019, net debt was £25.2 billion, compared – non-interest bearing – (29)
with £21.6 billion at 31 December 2018. This comprised gross Net debt (25,215) (21,621)
debt of £30.5 billion and cash and liquid investments of
1 Includes £2.1 billion equivalent of notes swapped from floating to fixed rates via interest
£5.3 billion, including £0.5 billion reported within Assets held rate swaps.
for sale. Net debt increased due to the £3.9 billion acquisition Movements in net debt
of Tesaro Inc as well as £0.2 billion of Tesaro net debt, together
2019 2018
with the £1.3 billion impact from the implementation of IFRS 16, £m £m
the dividend paid to shareholders of £4.0 billion and other net Net debt at beginning of year (21,621) (13,178)
investing activities of £0.1 billion, partly offset by £0.7 billion net Implementation of IFRS 16 (1,303) –
favourable exchange impacts from the translation of non-Sterling Net debt at beginning of year, as adjusted (22,924) (13,178)
denominated debt and exchange on other financing items and Increase in cash and bank overdrafts 826 479
£5.1 billion of free cash flow. Decrease in liquid investments (1) –
At 31 December 2019, GSK had short-term borrowings Increase in long-term loans (4,794) (10,138)
(including overdrafts and lease liabilities) repayable within 12 Net repayment of short-term loans 1,065 1,986
months of £6.9 billion, with loans of £3.2 billion repayable in Repayment of lease liabilities 214 28
the subsequent year. Debt of subsidiary undertakings acquired (524) –
Exchange movements 1,015 (776)
At 31 December 2019, GSK’s cash and liquid investments were
Other movements (92) (22)
held as follows:
Net debt at end of year (25,215) (21,621)
2019 2018
£m £m
Bank balances and deposits 2,565 1,853
Bank balances and deposits reported in
assets held for sale 507 485
US Treasury and Treasury repo only money
market funds 102 449
Liquidity funds 2,040 1,572
Cash and cash equivalents 5,214 4,359
Liquid investments – Government securities 79 84
5,293 4,443
68 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Group financial review continued
Financial position and resources continued
Interest rate benchmark reform Total equity
‘Interest rate benchmark reform – Amendments to IFRS 9, At 31 December 2019, total equity had increased from £3,672
IAS 39 and IFRS 7’ was issued by the IASB in September million at 31 December 2018 to £18,357 million.
2019. These amendments modify specific hedge accounting
A summary of the movements in equity is set out below.
requirements to allow hedge accounting to continue for affected
2019 2018
hedges during the period of uncertainty before the hedged £m £m
items or hedging instruments affected by the current interest Total equity at beginning of year 3,672 3,489
rate benchmarks are amended as a result of the ongoing Implementation of IFRS 15 (4)
interest rate benchmark reforms. Implementation of IFRS 9 (11)
At 31 December 2019, the Group was not directly exposed Implementation of IFRS 16 (93)
to interest rate benchmark reform as it held no interest rate Total equity at beginning of year, as adjusted 3,579 3,474
derivatives that referenced LIBOR and matured after the end Total comprehensive income for the year 3,701 4,300
of 2021 and all floating rate bonds were due to mature before Dividends to shareholders (3,953) (3,927)
the end of 2021. Recognition of interest in Consumer Healthcare
Joint Venture 14,969 –
The Group has closely monitored the market and the output
from the various industry working groups managing the Ordinary shares issued 51 74
transition to new benchmark interest rates. This includes Changes in non-controlling interests (10) –
announcements made by LIBOR regulators, including the De-recognition of liabilities with non-controlling
interests – (62)
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and the US Commodity
Share-based incentive plans 365 360
Futures Trading Commission, regarding the transition away
from LIBOR (including GBP LIBOR, USD LIBOR and Tax on share-based incentive plans 19 2
EURIBOR) to the Sterling Overnight Index Average Rate Contributions from non-controlling interests – 21
(SONIA), the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR), Distributions to non-controlling interests (364) (570)
and the Euro Short-Term Rate (€STR) respectively. The FCA Total equity at end of year 18,357 3,672
has made it clear that, at the end of 2021, it will no longer
Share purchases
seek to persuade, or compel, banks to submit to LIBOR.
No shares were repurchased by the company during 2019.
The Group is undertaking an interest rate benchmark transition
At 31 December 2019, GSK held 393.5 million shares as
programme to identify potential exposures within the business
Treasury shares (2018 – 414.6 million shares), at a cost of
and deliver a smooth transition to appropriate alternative
£5,505 million (2018 – £5,800 million), which has been
benchmark rates.
deducted from retained earnings.
No ordinary shares were purchased in the period 1 January
2020 to 24 February 2020 and the company does not expect
to make any ordinary share repurchases in the remainder of
2020.
In 2019, 21.1 million Treasury shares were transferred to the
Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) Trusts. Shares are
held by the Trusts to satisfy future exercises of options and
awards under the Group share option and award schemes.
A proportion of the shares held by the Trusts are in respect
of awards where the rules of the scheme require us to satisfy
exercises through market purchases rather than the issue of
new shares. The shares held by the Trusts are matched to
options and awards granted.
At 31 December 2019, the ESOP Trusts held 36.4 million
(2018 – 41.5 million) GSK shares against the future exercise
of share options and share awards. The carrying value of
£135 million (2018 – £161 million) has been deducted from
other reserves. The market value of these shares was
£647 million (2018 – £619 million).
GSK Annual Report 2019 69Group financial review continued
Financial position and resources continued
Contractual obligations and commitments In 2018, we reached an agreement with the trustees of the
Financial commitments are summarised in Note 35 to the UK pension schemes to make additional contributions, to
financial statements, ‘Commitments’. assist in eliminating the pension deficit identified as part of the
31 December 2017 actuarial funding valuation. The table
The following table sets out our contractual obligations and
above includes this commitment but excludes the normal
commitments at 31 December 2019 as they fall due for
ongoing annual funding requirement in the UK of approximately
payment.
£130 million. For further information on pension obligations,
Total Under 1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs+ see Note 30 to the financial statements, ‘Pensions and other
£m £m £m £m £m
post-employment benefits’.
Loans 29,408 6,678 5,883 3,925 12,922
Interest on loans 8,952 780 1,409 1,159 5,604 Contingent liabilities
Finance lease obligations 1,250 240 346 198 466 Other contingent liabilities are set out in Note 34 to the financial
Future finance charges 223 41 66 42 74 statements, ‘Contingent liabilities’.
Intangible assets 9,727 578 607 1,502 7,040
The following table sets out contingent liabilities, comprising
Property, plant & equipment 413 378 35 – – discounted bills, performance guarantees, letters of credit and
Investments 47 24 23 – – other items arising in the normal course of business, and when
Purchase commitments 1,047 925 121 1 – they are expected to expire.
Pensions 163 75 88 – –
Total 51,230 9,719 8,578 6,827 26,106 Total Under 1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs+
£m £m £m £m £m
Commitments in respect of loans and future interest payable Guarantees 32 4 11 3 14
on loans are disclosed before taking into account the effect of Other contingent liabilities 65 10 17 8 30
derivatives. Total 97 14 28 11 44
We have entered into a number of research collaborations to
In the normal course of business, we have provided various
develop new compounds with other pharmaceutical companies.
indemnification guarantees in respect of business disposals in
The terms of these arrangements can include upfront fees,
which legal and other disputes have subsequently arisen. A
equity investments, loans and commitments to fund specified
provision is made where an outflow of resources is considered
levels of research. In addition, we will often agree to make
probable and a reliable estimate can be made of the likely
further payments if future ‘milestones’ are achieved.
outcome of the dispute and this is included in Note 31 to the
As some of these agreements relate to compounds in the early financial statements, ‘Other provisions’.
stages of development, the potential obligation to make
We provide for the outcome of tax, legal and other disputes
milestone payments will continue for a number of years if the
when an outflow of resources is considered probable and a
compounds move successfully through the development
reliable estimate of the outflow may be made. At 31 December
process. Generally, the closer the product is to marketing
2019, other than for those disputes where provision has been
approval, the greater the probability of success. The amounts
made, it was not possible to make a reliable estimate of the
shown above within intangible assets represent the maximum
potential outflow of funds that might be required to settle
that would be paid if all milestones were achieved, and include
disputes where the possibility of there being an outflow was
£4.9 billion which relates to externalised projects in the
more than remote.
discovery portfolio. There was an increase in the commitments
The ultimate liability for such matters may vary significantly from
in 2019 as a result of a number of new R&D collaborations,
the amounts provided and is dependent upon negotiations with
including with Merck KgaA and Lyell Immunopharma.
the relevant tax authorities and the outcome of litigation
proceedings, where relevant. This is discussed further in
‘Principal risks and uncertainties’ on pages 275 to 287 and
Note 46 to the financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’.
70 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Group financial review continued
Treasury policies
We report in Sterling and pay dividends out of Sterling cash Interest rate risk management
flows. The role of Treasury is to monitor and manage the GSK’s objective is to minimise the effective net interest cost
Group’s external and internal funding requirements and financial and to balance the mix of debt at fixed and floating interest rates
risks in support of our strategic objectives. GSK operates on over time. The policy on interest rate risk management limits the
a global basis, primarily through subsidiary companies, and net amount of floating rate debt to a specific cap, reviewed and
we manage our capital to ensure that our subsidiaries are able agreed no less than annually by the Board.
to operate as going concerns and to optimise returns to
Foreign exchange risk management
shareholders through an appropriate balance of debt and
Our objective is to minimise the exposure of overseas
equity. Treasury activities are governed by policies approved
operating subsidiaries to transaction risk by matching local
annually by the Board of Directors, and most recently on
currency income with local currency costs where possible.
16 October 2019. A Treasury Management Group (TMG)
Foreign currency transaction exposures arising on external
meeting, chaired by our Chief Financial Officer, takes place
and internal trade flows are selectively hedged. GSK’s internal
on a regular basis to review Treasury activities. Its members
trading transactions are matched centrally and we manage
receive management information relating to these activities.
inter-company payment terms to reduce foreign currency risk.
Treasury operations Where possible, we manage the cash surpluses or borrowing
The objective of GSK’s Treasury activities is to minimise the requirements of subsidiary companies centrally using forward
post-tax net cost of financial operations and reduce its volatility contracts to hedge future repayments back into the originating
in order to benefit earnings and cash flows. GSK uses a variety currency.
of financial instruments to finance its operations and derivative
In order to reduce foreign currency translation exposure,
financial instruments to manage market risks from these
we seek to denominate borrowings in the currencies of
operations. Derivatives principally comprise foreign exchange
our principal assets and cash flows. These are primarily
forward contracts and swaps which are used to swap
denominated in US Dollars, Euros and Sterling. Borrowings
borrowings and liquid assets into currencies required for
can be swapped into other currencies as required.
Group purposes, as well as interest rate swaps which are
used to manage exposure to financial risks from changes in Borrowings denominated in, or swapped into, foreign
interest rates. currencies that match investments in overseas Group assets
may be treated as a hedge against the relevant assets. Forward
Derivatives are used exclusively for hedging purposes in relation
contracts in major currencies are also used to reduce exposure
to underlying business activities and not as trading or
to the Group’s investment in overseas Group assets. The TMG
speculative instruments.
reviews the ratio of borrowings to assets for major currencies
Capital management regularly.
GSK’s financial strategy, implemented through the Group’s
Counterparty risk management
financial architecture, supports GSK’s strategic priorities and
We set global counterparty limits for each of our banking and
is regularly reviewed by the Board. We manage the capital
investment counterparties based on long-term credit ratings
structure of the Group through an appropriate mix of debt and
from Moody’s and Standard and Poor’s. Treasury’s usage of
equity. We continue to manage our financial policies to a credit
these limits is monitored daily by a Treasury Compliance Officer
profile that particularly targets short-term credit ratings of A-1
(TCO) who operates independently of Treasury. Any breach of
and P-1 while maintaining single A long-term ratings consistent
these limits would be reported to the CFO immediately.
with those targets.
The TCO also monitors the credit rating of these counterparties
GSK’s long-term credit rating with Standard and Poor’s is A+
and, when changes in ratings occur, notifies Treasury so that
(negative outlook) and with Moody’s Investor Services
changes can be made to investment levels or to authority limits
(‘Moody’s’) is A2 (negative outlook). Our short-term credit
as appropriate. In addition, relationship banks and their credit
ratings are A-1 and P-1 with Standard and Poor’s and Moody’s
ratings are reviewed regularly and a report is presented annually
respectively.
to the TMG for approval.
Liquidity risk management
GSK’s policy is to borrow centrally in order to meet anticipated
funding requirements. Our cash flow forecasts and funding
requirements are monitored by the TMG on a regular basis.
Our strategy is to diversify liquidity sources using a range of
facilities and to maintain broad access to financial markets.
Each day, we sweep cash from a number of global subsidiaries
to central Treasury accounts for liquidity management purposes.
GSK Annual Report 2019 71Group financial review continued
Critical accounting policies
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in – The US Medicaid programme is a state-administered
accordance with IFRS, as adopted for use in the European programme providing assistance to certain poor and
Union, and also with IFRS as issued by the International vulnerable patients. In 1990, the Medicaid Drug Rebate
Accounting Standards Board (IASB), following the accounting Program was established to reduce State and Federal
policies approved by the Board and described in Note 2 to the expenditure on prescription drugs. In 2010, the Patient
financial statements, ‘Accounting principles and policies’. Protection and Affordable Care Act became law. We
participate by providing rebates to states. Accruals for
We are required to make estimates and assumptions that
Medicaid rebates are calculated based on the specific
affect the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses
terms of the relevant regulations or the Patient Protection
reported in the financial statements. Actual amounts and
and Affordable Care Act
results could differ from those estimates.
– Cash discounts are offered to customers to encourage
The critical accounting policies relate to the following areas:
prompt payment. These are accrued for at the time of
– Turnover invoicing and adjusted subsequently to reflect actual
– Taxation (Note 14) experience
– Legal and other disputes (Notes 31 and 46) – We record an accrual for estimated sales returns by applying
historical experience of customer returns to the amounts
– Contingent consideration and put option liabilities
invoiced, together with market-related information such as
(Notes 28 and 32)
stock levels at wholesalers, anticipated price increases and
– Pensions and other post-employment benefits (Note 30).
competitor activity.
Information on the judgements and estimates made in these
A reconciliation of gross turnover to net turnover for the US
areas is given in Note 3 to the financial statements, ‘Key
Pharmaceuticals business is as follows:
accounting judgements and estimates’.
2019 2018 2017
Turnover Margin Margin Margin
£m % £m % £m %
In respect of the Turnover accounting policy, our largest
Gross turnover 18,471 100 18,227 100 16,365 100
business is US Pharmaceuticals, and the US market has
the most complex arrangements for rebates, discounts and Market-driven
segments (5,976) (32) (5,147) (28) (4,040) (25)
allowances. The following briefly describes the nature of the
Government
arrangements in existence in our US Pharmaceuticals business:
mandated and
– We have arrangements with certain indirect customers state programmes (4,264) (23) (4,594) (25) (3,933) (24)
whereby the customer is able to buy products from Cash discounts (356) (2) (361) (2) (330) (2)
wholesalers at reduced prices. A chargeback represents Customer returns (141) (1) (98) (1) (97) (1)
the difference between the invoice price to the wholesaler Prior year adjustments 247 1 98 1 86 1
and the indirect customer’s contractual discounted price. Other prior year items – – (59) – (23) –
Accruals for estimating chargebacks are calculated based Other items (579) (3) (613) (4) (460) (3)
on the terms of each agreement, historical experience and Total deductions (11,069) (60) (10,774) (59) (8,797) (54)
product growth rates Net turnover 7,402 40 7,453 41 7,568 46
– Customer rebates are offered to key managed care and
Market-driven segments consist primarily of Managed Care and
Group Purchasing Organisations and other direct and indirect
Medicare plans with which we negotiate contract pricing that is
customers. These arrangements require the customer to
honoured via rebates and chargebacks. Mandated segments
achieve certain performance targets relating to the value of
consist primarily of Medicaid and Federal Government
product purchased, formulary status or pre-determined market
programmes which receive government-mandated pricing via
shares relative to competitors. The accrual for customer
rebates and chargebacks.
rebates is estimated based on the specific terms in each
agreement, historical experience and product growth rates
72 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Group financial review continued
Critical accounting policies continued
The increased deductions in the market-driven segments of This position could change over time and, therefore, there can
the gross turnover to net turnover reconciliation primarily be no assurance that any losses that result from the outcome of
reflected higher rebates and chargebacks on respiratory any legal proceedings will not exceed by a material amount the
products, and on Advair in particular. A generic version of amount of the provisions reported in the Group’s financial
Advair was launched in February 2019, and during the year statements.
Advair accounted for 7% of US Pharmaceuticals turnover and
Like many pharmaceutical companies, we are faced with
approximately 27% of the total deduction for rebates and
various complex product liability, anti-trust and patent litigation,
returns. The respiratory portfolio as a whole, including
as well as investigations of our operations conducted by various
Established Respiratory products, accounted for approximately
governmental regulatory agencies. Throughout the year, the
79% of the total deduction in the year.
General Counsel of the Group, as head of the Group’s legal
The balance sheet accruals for rebates, discounts, allowances function, and the Senior Vice President and Head of Global
and returns for the US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines businesses Litigation for the Group, who is responsible for all litigation and
are managed on a combined basis. At 31 December 2019, the government investigations, routinely brief the Chief Executive
total accrual amounted to £4,200 million (2018 – £4,356 million). Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the Board of Directors
on the significant litigation pending against the Group and
A monthly process is operated to monitor inventory levels at
governmental investigations of the Group.
wholesalers for any abnormal movements. This process uses
gross sales volumes, prescription volumes based on third party These meetings, as appropriate, detail the status of significant
data sources and information received from key wholesalers. litigation and government investigations and review matters
The aim of this is to maintain inventories at a consistent level such as the number of claims notified to us, information on
from year to year based on the pattern of consumption. potential claims not yet notified, assessment of the validity of
claims, progress made in settling claims, recent settlement
On this basis, US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines inventory
levels and potential reimbursement by insurers.
levels at wholesalers and in other distribution channels at 31
December 2019 were estimated to amount to approximately The meetings also include an assessment of whether or not
four weeks of turnover. This calculation uses third party there is sufficient information available for us to be able to make
information, the accuracy of which cannot be totally verified, a reliable estimate of the potential outcomes of the disputes.
but is believed to be sufficiently reliable for this purpose. Often, external counsel assisting us with various litigation
matters and investigations will also assist in the briefing of the
Legal and other disputes
Board and senior management. Following these discussions,
In respect of the accounting policy for Legal and other disputes,
for those matters where it is possible to make a reliable estimate
the following briefly describes the process by which we
of the amount of a provision, if any, that may be required, the
determine the level of provision that is necessary.
level of provision for legal and other disputes is reviewed and
In accordance with the requirements of IAS 37, ‘Provisions, adjusted as appropriate. These matters are discussed further
contingent liabilities and contingent assets’, we provide for in Note 46 to the financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’.
anticipated settlement costs where an outflow of resources is
considered probable and a reliable estimate may be made of
the likely outcome of the dispute and legal and other expenses
arising from claims against the Group.
We may become involved in significant legal proceedings, in
respect of which it is not possible to make a reliable estimate
of the expected financial effect, if any, that could result from
ultimate resolution of the proceedings. In these cases,
appropriate disclosure about such cases would be included
in the Annual Report, but no provision would be made.
GSK Annual Report 2019 73Group financial review continued
Strategic report
The Strategic report was approved by the Board of Directors on
3 March 2020
Iain Mackay
Chief Financial Officer
3 March 2020
74 GSK Annual Report 2019SSttrraatteeggiicc rreeppoorrtt
GGoovveerrnnaannccee aanndd rreemmuunneerraattiioonn
FFiinnaanncciiaall ssttaatteemmeennttss
IInnvveessttoorr iinnffoorrmmaattiioonn
Corporate
Governance
In this section
Chairman’s Governance statement 76
Our Board 78
Our Corporate Executive Team 82
Responsible leadership 84
Division of responsibilities 90
Composition, succession and evaluation 92
Nominations Committee report 92
Audit, risk and internal control 96
Audit & Risk Committee report 96
Science Committee report 107
Corporate Responsibility Committee report 109
Section 172 statement 111
Directors’ report 113
GGSSKK AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22001199 7755Chairman’s Governance statement
I am pleased to present our Corporate Governance report for 2019
and an overview of the changes to our governance arrangements for
2020 as we work towards separation of the Group.
Last year was an important one for GSK. The Board led by Board governance and architecture
Sir Philip Hampton and Emma re-set the strategic direction Given the company is embarking on a period of transition and
of the company. I was honoured to have the opportunity to join the last two years in particular have been a period of significant
the Board and lead it through the separation to create two new change from a Board and senior executive perspective, we
world-class businesses. I was particularly excited to work with decided to undertake an external review to gather the views of
Emma. She has brought real clarity to decision making, where a both the Board and CET members to ready us for the task
pharma veteran might have been less dispassionate. She has ahead. This review, together with the insights from my
also attracted the best in the industry to form her top team. introductory meetings with investors and feedback from the
The Board is focused on supporting her and management in employees I have met since joining, has helped us to further
transforming the Group and executing our strategy. refine our Board governance and architecture. This will help
focus and facilitate the Board’s work in support of management,
At the beginning of this important journey for the company and
to be as effective and efficient as possible in delivering the
for my tenure at GSK, it was helpful that my first Board meeting
transformation of the Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines business
in September last year included a joint Board and CET Strategy
and the separation of the Consumer Healthcare business.
offsite session. Together, we were able to consider the next
steps for our plans and the way forward. This was a great start. A description of the review process which was carried out by
Jan Hall of No 4 (No 4) follows this statement.
My understanding of GSK has been informed by a robust
induction process, designed by Emma and our Company After the review, the Board agreed its critical objectives for the
Secretary, introductory meetings with our investors and the next three years towards separation. The Board then considered
Board review we decided to commission. how best to distribute the workload between it and its
Committees to ensure optimal effectiveness. The Board will
Induction
also increase the time it spends on science given the
I was keen to learn more about GSK, and started by
importance of the strengthening the pipeline.
understanding R&D from Hal and visiting our R&D sites in the
US and UK, including Tesaro, and meeting with 23andMe, with It was agreed that once the Board has conducted its annual
whom we have an important collaboration. I look forward to review into the Group’s enterprise risks, deeper enterprise
visiting more of the Group in due course. risk oversight should be undertaken by the Board Committee
which focuses on that aspect of the business most closely.
Since joining, I have met on an individual basis with Board and
Enhancements were also considered to the ways of working
CET members and other key executives. I have also attended
and governance architecture of the Board’s Committees.
meetings of each of our Board Committees to assess and
These included:
understand our Board culture and dynamics, and the company’s
corporate governance arrangements. Audit & Risk Committee (ARC)
The ARC will continue to have a strong focus on financial
Introductory meetings with investors
reporting, as well as monitoring the dashboard of all GSK’s
I wanted to hear what our shareholders think of GSK. I have
enterprise risks and the process by which they are identified
held over 20 meetings with a range of investors making up
and prioritised as part of its oversight of our internal control
approximately 30% of our register. They comprised a mix of our
framework. It will conduct the detailed reviews of GSK’s
top UK and US shareholders, plus other key investors. I also led
Financial controls and reporting, Anti-bribery and corruption,
our Annual Governance Meeting in December 2019. I have
Commercial practices, Privacy and Information security
noted the following points:
enterprise risks, as well as receiving business unit risk reports
– Clear support for Emma – Demonstrate pipeline progress on Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines, Consumer Healthcare and our
and Hal, and the top team ahead of separation Global Support functions. In addition, it will be responsible for
– Support for the separation – Managing capital allocation, debt, oversight of the financial components as we work towards
of the Group dividend and business development separation.
– Positive progress on – Evidence of a positive shift in our
Innovation to date performance culture and our R&D
culture has been transformed
76 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Nominations Committee The Board is mindful that the Financial Reporting Council’s
The remit of the Nominations Committee will be expanded (FRC) 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code (2018 Code)
to encompass Corporate Governance matters, therefore freeing indicates that Non-Executive Directors should not serve for
more time at the Board. The Committee will be renamed the more than nine years. However, the Board considers this is the
Nominations & Corporate Governance Committee. All Non- most appropriate way to proceed in the long-term best interests
Executives will be invited to participate in meetings of the of shareholders and believes, following a rigorous review, that
Committee when it considers succession and talent. Judy continues to act with utmost independence, despite her
length of tenure.
Transformation & Separation Committee
A Transformation & Separation Committee will be established The Nominations Committee continues to oversee succession
to support and advise management’s work on transforming planning for the Board and the CET. In due course, it will
and separating the Group. I will chair this Committee whose consider the needs of the post separation boards.
members will include our Senior Independent Director (SID)
Non Executive Directors fees
and the Chairs of the ARC, Remuneration and Corporate
We have reviewed our Non-Executive Directors’ fee
Responsibility Committees. It will meet as required and it is
arrangements as part of our three year remuneration policy
expected that it will be more active as we near separation.
review. Our Non-Executive Director fees were last increased
R&D at the Board & Science Committee in 2013 and, following a review, we concluded that it was
Given the critical importance of strengthening the pipeline, appropriate to make increases to the fees to bring them into line
the Board will increase its time spent on R&D strategy, while the with our comparator group. We have also taken the opportunity
Science Committee will focus on science at a deeper level to to update our policy to be able to remunerate our Workforce
further support the Board’s understanding and provide Engagement Director, for the considerable work she undertakes
reassurance and guidance as required. as part of this new and expanding role. The investors we
consulted on these changes were supportive of them. Full
The Science Committee will then have three broad objectives:
details can be found on page 140.
the scientific assumptions driving our strategy, technical
assurance, and risk oversight. It will support the Board in its I can confirm that during 2019 the company complied with the
understanding of our agreed R&D strategy and of any external requirements of the 2018 Code. A copy of the 2018 Code can
transactions by performing a deep review of the underlying be found on www.frc.org.uk.
scientific assumptions. In addition, it will have oversight of
I commend this report to all our stakeholders.
R&D’s enterprise and other significant risks.
The Board feels that with these enhancements to our
governance it will improve further our effectiveness and support Sir Jonathan Symonds
us through the separation process. Chairman
Succession planning 3 March 2020
My first task as Nominations Committee Chair has been to
focus on the search for Judy’s successor as Chair of the ARC.
We have made good progress to date and look forward to
announcing the conclusion of our search.
We considered the ideal transition for this important role.
We are very pleased that Judy has confirmed that she will
stay on the Board for a further year, despite having served
over nine years, and she will now step down from the Board
at the 2021 Annual General Meeting. This should facilitate
a smooth transition. Judy will continue as its Chair until the
2020 Annual Report is completed, when her successor will
then Chair the ARC.
GSK Annual Report 2019 77Our Board
Board governance and architecture
The Board carries out an evaluation of its performance and There is full commitment from the Board as a whole to support
that of its Committees every year. The evaluation is normally the overarching strategy of creating two great companies.
facilitated externally every third year. The last external evaluation
The Board is confident that the CET is focused on driving
was facilitated two years ago by Ffion Hague of Independent
performance over the next three years.
Board Evaluation.
Action points for 2020
For the reasons given in the Chairman’s Governance statement
– Meetings and organisation – to improve the balance
on pages 76 to 77, the Board agreed it would be helpful to
between presentation and discussion to create more time for
carry out an external evaluation that included a review of its
debate
governance and architecture.
– Board dynamics and individual contribution – to facilitate
No 4 was appointed by the Board to undertake the review.
even greater individual contribution by creating more
No 4 does not have any other connection with the company or
discussion time
individual Board Directors.
– Committees – to review the remit and attendees at the
Preparation
Board’s Committee meetings to ensure they are fit for
No 4 met with the Chairman and CEO in advance to agree the
purpose for 2020 and beyond
objectives and the scope of the evaluation exercise and the
timetable of activities. The Company Secretary provided No 4 – Risk – to agree which Board Committee will ensure deeper
with access to Board, Committee and other materials as part of oversight and review of each of the Group’s enterprise risks
No 4’s preparatory work.
– Strategy and performance – to conduct deep dives into the
Interviews key strategic areas and ensure a focus on supporting
During November and December 2019, No 4 conducted management to execute the agreed strategy
confidential and detailed in person interviews with each Board
– Board knowledge – to deepen the Board’s knowledge and
and CET member, as well as meeting with the Company
understanding of latest scientific developments
Secretary, to seek their views on the Board’s effectiveness.
These meetings were based on an agreed Discussion – Stakeholders – within the business, the Board should
Guideline, that included topics highlighted by the FRC in its continue to focus on the key areas of focus for the CET
2018 Guidance on Board Effectiveness. It also reflected the namely: strengthening the R&D pipeline, growth,
relevant requirements of the FRC’s 2018 Code. The Discussion transformation and delivery of GSK’s Trust business priority.
Guideline was sent to each participant in advance. No 4 also Externally the Board should maintain strong relationships
had telephone meetings with the external remuneration adviser and communication with shareholders and its other key
and the auditor. stakeholders to seek their input and keep them well informed
on progress
Review
The output from the evaluation was presented and discussed – Succession planning – to complete the appointment of the
with the Board collectively. A summary report including ARC Chair’s successor
suggested next steps was then compiled by No 4. This was
– Governance – to build further on GSK’s commitment to
discussed with the Chairman and CEO, and subsequently with
Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) matters.
the SID. The summary report was then presented to the Board
in January 2020 with a proposal for implementation of the
suggested recommendations.
2019 Board review feedback summary
The review concluded that the Board is operating effectively
and the new Chairman is seen to have made an excellent start.
The business is now entering a period of significant positive
change and opportunity. The Board feels very confident in the
CET and that each of the individual Board Directors bring
relevant experience and skills which are collectively appropriate.
GSK’s mission of producing products to ‘help people do more,
feel better and live longer’ remains at the heart of its values
and culture.
78 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Our Board continued
Board composition International experience Gender diversity
Composition Board
Executive 27% Global 91% Male 54.5%
Non-Executive 73% US 100% Female 45.5%
Tenure Non-Executive Europe 91% Executive
Up to 3 years 36% EMAP 82% Male 66.7%
3-6 years 46% Female 33.3%
7-9 years 18%
Non-Executive
Male 37.5%
Female 62.5%
Sir Jonathan Symonds, CBE Skills and experience
Non-Executive Chairman Jon has extensive international financial, life sciences and governance experience.
Jon served as an Independent Non-Executive Director of HSBC Holdings plc from April 2014, and
Age: 61
as Deputy Group Chairman from August 2018, until his retirement from the Board in February 2020.
Nationality: British
He was previously Chairman of HSBC Bank plc, HSBC’s European subsidiary, which offers
Appointed: 1 September 2019
services to clients in the UK and Continental Europe. Jon was Chief Financial Officer of Novartis AG
from 2009 to 2013. Before joining Novartis, he was a Partner and Managing Director of Goldman
N Sachs; Chief Financial Officer of AstraZeneca plc; and a Partner at KPMG. His governance
experience includes roles as Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Audit Committees of Diageo
plc and QinetiQ Group plc.
External appointments
Jon is currently Chairman of Proteus Digital Health Inc and a Non-Executive Director of Rubius
Therapeutics, Inc. He is also a Non-Executive Director of Genomics England Limited having
previously served as its Chairman.
Jon is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Emma Walmsley Skills and experience
Chief Executive Officer Prior to her appointment as GSK’s CEO, Emma was the CEO of GSK Consumer Healthcare,
a Joint Venture between GSK and Novartis, from its creation in March 2015. Emma joined GSK
Age: 50 in 2010 from L’Oreal, having worked for 17 years in a variety of roles in Paris, London, New York
Nationality: British and Shanghai. Emma was previously a Non-Executive Director of Diageo plc.
Appointed: 1 January 2017 Emma holds an MA in Classics and Modern Languages from Oxford University.
Chief Executive Officer from 1 April 2017
External appointments
Emma joined the Board of Microsoft, Inc as an independent director in December 2019.
She is an Honorary Fellow of the Royal Society of Chemistry.
Iain Mackay Skills and experience
Chief Financial Officer Prior to joining GSK, Iain was Group Finance Director at HSBC Holdings plc, a position he held for
eight years. A chartered accountant, Iain has worked in Asia, the US and Europe and before HSBC
Age: 58 was at General Electric, Schlumberger Dowell and Price Waterhouse.
Nationality: British External appointments
Appointed: 14 January 2019 Iain is a Trustee of the British Heart Foundation and Chair of its Audit and Risk Committee.
Chief Financial Officer from 1 April 2019 He is a member of the Court of the University of Aberdeen and The 100 Group.
Iain holds an MA in Business Studies and Accounting, and an Honorary Doctorate from
Aberdeen University in Scotland.
Key C ommittee Chair N Nominations A Audit & Risk R Remuneration S Science C C orporate Responsibility
GSK Annual Report 2019 79Our Board continued
Dr Hal Barron Skills and experience
Chief Scientific Officer Prior to joining GSK, Hal was President, R&D at Calico LLC (California Life Company), an Alphabet-
funded company that uses advanced technologies to increase understanding of lifespan biology.
and President, R&D
Prior to this, Hal was Executive Vice President, Head of Global Product Development, and Chief
Age: 57 Medical Officer of Roche, responsible for all the products in the combined portfolio of Roche and
Nationality: American Genentech. At Genentech, he was Senior Vice President of Development and Chief Medical Officer.
Appointed: 1 January 2018 Hal was a Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Science & Technology Committee at Juno
Chief Scientific Officer and President, Therapeutics, Inc until March 2018, when it was acquired by Celgene Corporation.
R&D from 1 April 2018 External appointments
Hal is Associate Adjunct Professor, Epidemiology & Biostatistics, University of California,
San Francisco. He is also a Non-Executive Board Director of GRAIL, Inc, an early cancer
detection healthcare company and a member of the Advisory Board of Verily Life Sciences LLC,
a subsidiary of Alphabet, Inc.
Manvinder Singh (Vindi) Banga Skills and experience
Senior Independent Non-Executive Prior to joining GSK, Vindi spent 33 years at Unilever plc, where his last role (amongst several senior
positions) was President of the Global Foods, Home and Personal Care businesses, and a member
Director
of the Unilever Executive Board. Vindi sat on the Prime Minister of India’s Council of Trade & Industry
Age: 65 from 2004 to 2014 and was on the Board of Governors of the Indian Institute of Management (IIM),
Nationality: British Ahmedabad. Vindi is also the recipient of the Padma Bhushan, one of India’s highest civilian honours.
Vindi has been a Non-Executive Director of the Confederation of British Industry (CBI) and Thomson
Appointed: 1 September 2015
Reuters Corp, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Mauser Group, Chairman of Kalle GmbH and
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
Senior Independent Director of Marks & Spencer Group plc.
from 5 May 2016
External appointments
N A R Vindi is a Partner at private equity investment firm Clayton Dubilier & Rice, a Director of High Ridge
Brands Co and a member of the Holdingham International Advisory Board. Vindi sits on the Governing
Board of the Indian School of Business, Hyderabad and the Global Leadership Council of Saïd
Business School, Oxford and is a member of the Indo UK CEO Forum. Vindi is Chair of the Board
of Trustees of Marie Curie.
Dr Vivienne Cox, CBE Skills and experience
Independent Non-Executive Director Vivienne has wide experience of business gained in the energy, natural resources and publishing
sectors. She also has a deep understanding of regulatory and government relationships. She
& Workforce Engagement Director
worked for BP plc for 28 years, in Britain and Continental Europe, in posts including Executive Vice
Age: 60 President and Chief Executive of BP’s gas, power and renewable business and its alternative energy
Nationality: British unit. Vivienne was previously a Non-Executive Director of BG Group plc and Rio Tinto plc and Lead
Independent Director at the UK Government’s Department for International Development. Vivienne
Appointed: 1 July 2016
was appointed Commander of the Order of the British Empire in the 2016 New Year Honours for
services to the UK Economy and Sustainability.
R C
External appointments
Vivienne’s main roles are as Senior Independent Director of Pearson plc and Chairman of the
Supervisory Board of Vallourec. She is also a Non-Executive Director of Stena AB. Vivienne holds
advisory positions as an Advisory Board Member of the African Leadership Institute, Vice President
of the Energy Institute and a member of the advisory board of Montrose Associates. Vivienne is Chair
of the Rosalind Franklin Institute, Vice Chair of the Saïd Business School, Oxford and sits on its
Global Leadership Council. She is also Patron of the Hospice of St Francis.
Lynn Elsenhans Skills and experience
Independent Non-Executive Director Lynn has a wealth of experience of running a global business and significant knowledge of the global
markets in which GSK operates. She served as Chair, President and Chief Executive Officer of
Age: 63 Sunoco Inc from 2009 to 2012. Prior to joining Sunoco in 2008 as President and Chief Executive
Nationality: American Officer, Lynn worked for Royal Dutch Shell, which she joined in 1980, and where she held a number
Appointed: 1 July 2012 of senior roles, including Executive Vice President, Global Manufacturing from 2005 to 2008. Lynn
was previously a Non-Executive Director of Flowserve Corporation, the First Tee of Greater Houston,
and a Trustee of the United Way of Greater Houston.
C N A
External appointments
Lynn is a Non-Executive Director of Baker Hughes Company, a Board Director of Saudi Aramco and
a Director of the Texas Medical Center.
Key C ommittee Chair N Nominations A Audit & Risk R Remuneration S Science C C orporate Responsibility
80 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Our Board continued
Dr Laurie Glimcher Skills and experience
Independent Non-Executive Director In addition to a number of senior leadership positions held at both Harvard Medical School and Harvard
School of Public Health, Laurie has also served as Stephen and Suzanne Weiss Dean and Professor of
and Scientific & Medical Expert
Medicine at Weill Cornell Medical College and as an Attending Physician at the New York Presbyterian
Age: 68 Hospital/Weill Cornell Medical Center. Laurie stepped down from the Board of Bristol-Myers Squibb Co
Nationality: American (BMS) in 2017 after serving for 20 years on its Board. Laurie was co-founder and Chair of the Scientific
Advisory Board of Quentis Therapeutics Inc. Laurie brings scientific and public health expertise to the
Appointed: 1 September 2017
Board’s deliberations, and a wealth of global, publicly listed pharmaceutical business experience.
A S External appointments
Laurie is currently Professor of Medicine at Harvard Medical School and is CEO, President and an
Attending Physician at the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute.
Laurie is a member of the US National Academy of Sciences and the National Academy of Medicine.
She is a member of the Scientific Steering Committee of the Parker Institute for Cancer Immunotherapy
and a Non-Executive Director of the Waters Corporation, where she also serves on its Corporate
Governance Committee. In addition, Laurie is a Scientific Advisory Board member of Repare
Therapeutics Inc, Abpro Therapeutics and Kaleido Biosciences Inc.
Dr Jesse Goodman Skills and experience
Independent Non-Executive Director Jesse previously served in senior leadership positions at the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA),
including most recently as the FDA’s Chief Scientist and previously as Deputy Commissioner for Science
and Scientific & Medical Expert
and Public Health and as Director of the Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research (CBER).
Age: 68 Jesse played a leadership role in developing the FDA’s Regulatory Science and Medical Countermeasures
Nationality: American Initiatives and has worked collaboratively with industry, academia, government and global public health and
Appointed: 1 January 2016 regulatory partners to prepare for and respond to major public health threats, including emerging infectious
diseases, disasters and terrorism. He led the FDA’s response to West Nile Virus and to the 2009 H1N1
S C influenza pandemic and served on the Senior Leadership Team for the 2010 White House Medical
Countermeasure Review. Jesse was previously a member of both the Scientific Advisory Committee and
the Regulatory and Legal Working Group of the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI).
He brings scientific and public health expertise to the Board’s deliberations.
External appointments
Jesse, currently Professor of Medicine at Georgetown University, directs the Georgetown University Center
on Medical Product Access, Safety and Stewardship (COMPASS) and is an active clinician who serves as
Attending Physician in Infectious Diseases. He also serves as President and Member of the Board of the
United States Pharmacopeia (USP) and as a member of the Board of Scientific Counselors for Infectious
Diseases of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Jesse is also a member of the Board
of Intellia Therapeutics, Cambridge, MA and a member of the US National Academy of Medicine.
Judy Lewent Skills and experience
Independent Non-Executive Director Judy has extensive knowledge of the global pharmaceutical industry and of corporate finance, having
joined Merck & Co in 1980 and then served as its Chief Financial Officer from 1990 to 2007 when she
Age: 71 retired. Judy served as a Non-Executive Director of Dell Inc, Quaker Oats Company and Motorola Inc,
Nationality: American and held Non-Executive Directorships at Purdue Pharma Inc, Napp Pharmaceutical Holdings Limited
Appointed: 1 April 2011 and certain Mundipharma International Limited companies until 2014.
External appointments
A N R S Judy is a Non-Executive Director of Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc and Motorola Solutions Inc. She is
also a Trustee of the Rockefeller Family Trust, a life member of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Corporation, a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, a member of the Business
Advisory Board of twoXAR and a member of the Advisory Board of 4D Path Inc.
The Board determined that Judy has recent and relevant financial experience, and agreed that
she has the appropriate qualifications and background to be an audit committee financial expert.
Urs Rohner Skills and experience
Independent Non-Executive Director Urs has a broad range of business and legal experience having served as Chairman on a number
of Boards, most recently for Credit Suisse, a world-leading financial services company. Prior to joining
Age: 60 Credit Suisse in 2004, Urs served as Chairman of the Executive Board and CEO of ProSieben and
Nationality: Swiss ProSiebenSat.1 Media AG. This followed a number of years in private practice at major law firms in
Appointed: 1 January 2015 Switzerland and the US, having been admitted to the bars of the canton of Zurich in Switzerland in
1986 and the state of New York in the US in 1990.
R N External appointments
Urs is Chairman of the Board of Credit Suisse Group AG and of its Governance and Nominations
Committee and Conduct and Financial Crime Control Committee. He is also Chairman and member
of the Board of Trustees of Credit Suisse Research Institute and Credit Suisse Foundation. Urs was
appointed Vice-Chairman of the Governing Board of the Swiss Bankers Association in 2015.
Sir Philip Hampton joined the Board on 1 January 2015 and was Deputy Chairman from 1 April 2015 and Non-Executive Chairman from 7 May 2015.
He retired from the Board with effect from 31 August 2019.
Simon Dingemans joined the Board on 4 January 2011 and became Chief Financial Officer from 1 April 2011. He retired from the Company on 8 May 2019.
Key C ommittee Chair N Nominations A Audit & Risk R Remuneration S Science C C orporate Responsibility
GSK Annual Report 2019 81Our Corporate Executive Team
Skills and experience
Dr Hal Barron Hal joined GSK and the CET in 2018. See Board biographies on page 79 to 81.
Chief Scientific Officer
and President, R&D
Roger Connor Roger joined the CET in 2013. He was appointed President of GSK Global Vaccines in 2018.
President, Global Vaccines In addition to leadership of the Vaccines business, he is responsible for GSK’s global procurement
organisation. Previously, he was President, Global Manufacturing & Supply and, before that,
Vice President, Office of the CEO and Corporate Strategy. Roger joined GSK in 1998 from
AstraZeneca. Roger holds a degree in Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering from Queen’s
University, Belfast and a Master’s in Manufacturing Leadership from Cambridge University.
He is a Chartered Accountant.
Diana Conrad Diana was appointed Senior Vice President, Human Resources (HR) and member of the CET
Senior Vice President, in April 2019. She was previously Senior Vice President, HR, Pharmaceuticals R&D from 2016
where she played a key strategic role as leader of the R&D people and culture agenda to support
Human Resources (HR)
its transformation.
Diana joined GSK Canada’s HR team in 2000 where she held several roles of increasing
responsibility before becoming Senior Vice President, HR for Consumer Healthcare in 2009.
Prior to joining GSK, she held HR roles in companies including GE Capital, Gennum Corporation
and Zenon Environmental Laboratories. Diana has an Honours Bachelor of Arts from McMaster
University in Canada.
James Ford James joined the CET in 2018, when he was appointed Senior Vice President and General Counsel.
Senior Vice President He joined GSK in 1995 and has served as General Counsel Consumer Healthcare, General Counsel
Global Pharmaceuticals, Vice President of Corporate Legal and was Acting Head of Global Ethics
and General Counsel
and Compliance. Prior to GSK, James was a solicitor at Clifford Chance and DLA. He holds
a law degree from University of East Anglia and a Diploma in Competition Law from Kings College.
He is qualified as a solicitor in England and Wales and is an attorney at the New York State Bar.
James is based in London but has practised law and lived in the US, Singapore and Hong Kong.
James is co-chair of the US based Civil Justice Reform Group.
Nick Hirons Nick was appointed to the CET in 2014 as Senior Vice President, Global Ethics and Compliance,
Senior Vice President, responsible for compliance, risk management, corporate security and investigations. Nick joined
GSK in 1994 as an International Auditor. He was later Head of Audit & Assurance, where he
Global Ethics and Compliance
combined five audit functions into an independent team with a common risk-based methodology.
In 2013, Nick relocated to China to establish a governance model for our China business and
created a consistent approach to compliance. Nick is a fellow of the Chartered Institute of
Management Accountants.
Sally Jackson Sally joined the CET in March 2019 as Senior Vice President, Global Communications and CEO
Senior Vice President, Office. She is responsible for communications and government affairs for our three global
businesses and in the markets, as well as employee engagement across the Group. She is also the
Global Communications
CEO’s Chief of Staff. Prior to this Sally was Senior Vice President Office of the CEO and CFO and
and CEO Office she previously served as Head of Investor Relations. She joined GSK in 2001. Sally holds a degree
in Natural Sciences from the University of Cambridge.
Iain Mackay Iain joined GSK and the CET in 2019. See Board biographies on page 79 to 81.
Chief Financial Officer
Brian McNamara Brian joined the CET in 2016, when he was appointed CEO, GSK Consumer Healthcare.
CEO, GSK Consumer Healthcare He joined GSK in 2015 as Head of Europe and Americas for GSK Consumer Healthcare,
following the creation of the previous Joint Venture between GSK and Novartis. Previously,
he was head of Novartis’ OTC division. Brian began his career at Procter and Gamble.
Brian is a Board Member and former Chairman of the Global Self-Care Federation (GSCF)
and is a Board Member of the Consumer Goods Forum. He earned an undergraduate degree
in Electrical Engineering from Union College in New York and an MBA in Finance from the
University of Cincinnati.
82 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Our Corporate Executive Team continued
Skills and experience
Luke Miels Luke joined GSK and the CET in 2017 as President, Global Pharmaceuticals, responsible for our
President, Global Pharmaceuticals commercial portfolio of medicines and vaccines. Luke also co-chairs the Portfolio Investment Board
with Hal.
He previously worked for AstraZeneca as Executive Vice President of their European business and,
prior to that, was Executive Vice President of Global Product and Portfolio Strategy, Global Medical
Affairs and Corporate Affairs. Before that, he was head of Asia for Roche based in Shanghai and
then Singapore. Prior to that he held roles of increasing seniority at Roche and Sanofi-Aventis in
the US, Europe and Asia.
Luke holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Biology from Flinders University in Adelaide and an
MBA from the Macquarie University, Sydney.
David Redfern David joined the CET as Chief Strategy Officer in 2008 and is responsible for corporate development
Chief Strategy Officer and strategic planning. Previously, he was Senior Vice President, Northern Europe with responsibility
for GSK’s pharmaceutical businesses in that region and, before that, he was Senior Vice President
for Central and Eastern Europe. He joined GSK in 1994. David was appointed Chairman of the
Board of ViiV Healthcare Limited in 2011 and a Non-Executive Director of the Aspen Pharmacare
Holdings Limited Board in 2015.
He has a Bachelor of Science degree from Bristol University and is a Chartered Accountant.
Regis Simard Regis joined the CET in 2018, when he became President, Pharmaceuticals Supply Chain.
President, Pharmaceuticals He is responsible for the manufacturing and supply of GSK’s pharmaceutical products. He also
leads Quality and Environment, Health, Safety and Sustainability at a corporate level. Regis joined
Supply Chain
GSK in 2005 as a Site Director in France, rising to become Senior Vice President of Global
Pharmaceuticals Manufacturing before his current role. Previously, he held senior positions at
Sony, Konica Minolta and Tyco Healthcare. He is a member of the Board for ViiV Healthcare.
He is a mechanical engineer and holds an MBA.
Karenann Terrell Karenann joined GSK and the CET in 2017 as Chief Digital & Technology Officer, responsible for
Chief Digital & Technology Officer our technology, digital, data and analytics strategy. Previously, she worked for Walmart as Chief
Information Officer. Prior to this, she was at Baxter International, where she was Chief Information
Officer, and before that Daimler Chrysler Corporation. Karenann began her career at General
Motors. She is a member of the board of trustees for the New York Hall of Science and in 2017
she became a Non-Executive Director of Pluralsight LLC.
She earned graduate and post-graduate degrees in Electrical Engineering from Kettering and
Purdue Universities respectively.
Phil Thomson Phil joined the CET in 2011. He was appointed President, Global Affairs in 2017, with responsibility
President, Global Affairs for the Group’s strategic approach to reputation, policy development, stakeholder engagement,
and Global Health. Previously, Phil was Senior Vice President, Communications and
Government Affairs.
Phil is Chairman of The Whitehall & Industry Group and a Board Member of the China–Britain
Business Council.
He earned his degree in English, History and Russian Studies from Durham University.
Emma Walmsley Emma joined the CET in 2011. See Board biographies on page 79 to 81.
Chief Executive Officer
Deborah Waterhouse Deborah was appointed to the CET in January 2020. She became Chief Executive Officer
CEO, ViiV Healthcare of ViiV Healthcare in April 2017.
Deborah joined GSK in 1996 and was most recently the Senior Vice President of Primary Care
within the company’s US business, prior to which she led the US Vaccines business. She has
a strong track record of performance in both specialty and primary care. Deborah led the HIV
business in the UK before heading the HIV Centre of Excellence for Pharma Europe and held
international roles as General Manager of Australia and New Zealand and Senior Vice President
for Central and Eastern Europe.
Claire Thomas was a member of the CET and SVP, Human Resources until April 2019. She retired from the company in September 2019.
GSK Annual Report 2019 83Responsible leadership
The Board’s role is to promote the long-term sustainable – Leadership capability
success of GSK, drive long-term growth for our shareholders
– Employee engagement and
whilst seeking to add value for our key stakeholders. Our
Strategic report on pages 1 to 74 seeks to demonstrate how – Ways of working.
we are able to achieve this in practice, while our Corporate The Board also receives regular updates from the Head of
Governance report on pages 76 to 114 explains how Human Resources, which analyse progress against these
governance contributes to the delivery of our strategy and dashboard indicators.
Innovation, Performance and Trust (IPT) priorities.
The Board further supports the approach to culture change
Our purpose, values and culture employed by management in seeking to appoint and promote
Our purpose is to improve the quality of human life by helping the right people, enhancing the company’s governance controls
people do more, feel better and live longer. This is underpinned and processes to further support and incentivise the right
by our values of patient focus, integrity, respect and transparency. behaviours, and training and developing employees.
Our purpose and values have always been a source of great
The company’s Code of Conduct embodies our values and
pride for the Board, management and our employees. They help
expectations to which our corporate standards and employee
attract and retain talented people who, as individuals, want to be
policies are aligned. These include our longstanding Speak Up
part of a Group that contributes meaningfully to society. They
arrangements where employees can raise matters confidentially
also drive the quality of our relationships with each other, our
or anonymously without fear of reprisals and as such are living
patients, consumers and other key stakeholders and ultimately
our values and expectations and doing the right thing. The Board,
should enable swifter progress in getting new medicines,
through the Audit & Risk Committee, regularly reviews Speak Up
vaccines and consumer healthcare products to our patients
reports provided by Global Ethics and Compliance (GEC). Our
and consumers around the world. Our culture set by the Board
Speak Up channels and cases are managed by an independent
is intended to deliver high standards of business conduct and
third party and cases are then investigated by GEC.
promote the long-term success of the company.
Our Code of Conduct, which is available on GSK.com, is kept
Our purpose and values are supported by our expectations
under review by the Board and is refreshed at least every other
of courage, accountability, development and teamwork and by
year, with an updated version due to be published in 2020.
evolving a culture to foster increased pace and a performance
edge. The Board receives regular reports from the CEO, CFO, Further details on how we enable our culture change as well as
Head of Human Resources and our global businesses, that invest in and reward our workforce are described on pages 10
update it on progress on the alignment between our strategy and 35 respectively.
and our performance and values-based culture. The way in
Our stakeholders
which the Board assures itself on this is described below.
Engagement with the company’s main stakeholder groups,
During the year, the Board focused its culture discussions on including our patients, shareholders, consumers, customers
employees’ experience of GSK and ways of working. The Audit and employees, at all levels of the organisation and across the
& Risk Committee considered the risk and compliance aspects enterprise is summarised on pages 15 and 16 of our Strategic
of our culture change and Performance in line with GSK’s Trust report.
priority. The Board considered progress on culture change
This section of the Corporate Governance report sets out how
against research into our corporate reputation and insights
the company’s key stakeholders’ interests were considered by
and reflections from our key external stakeholders.
the Board in its discussions and decision-making during the
Culture change in a complex, global organisation such as GSK year. This should be read in conjunction with our Section 172
takes time and sustained effort. The Board is fully committed to statement on page 111 and the areas that the statement
this work because a healthy culture is a vital tool in unlocking cross-references in this Annual Report to provide a holistic
and protecting value. The Board acknowledges that the biggest view of how the Board discharges this duty.
driver of our culture is the leadership of the company. The
Our stakeholders, rightly, have high expectations of us and the
culture shift underway continues to be role modelled by the
dynamic environment in which we operate presents challenges
CET and the Board, where their words, actions and behaviours
and opportunities that the Board seeks to respond to, whilst
set the tone for employees and the wider workforce. Board
remaining commercially successful, upholding our reputation,
members seek to lead by example by undertaking our Living
maintaining our licence to operate, and building trust. To ensure
our Values and Expectations training alongside the rest of the
that we are able to identify and respond to these expectations
workforce. This training explores in particular our values,
effectively, the Board engages with many of our key stakeholders
expectations and culture and their application to the company’s
directly or seeks to understand their views by other means to
operations and ways of working.
ensure that stakeholder sentiment can be appropriately
The Board receives the results of our regular employee surveys considered during deliberations and decision-making.
as a principal means of assessing how the shift in culture is
The influence and importance of different stakeholder groups
embedding in the organisation. A culture dashboard has also
in Board discussions can vary depending on the matter under
been introduced with four quantifiable indicators of progress
consideration. Indeed, different stakeholders interests can be
of the people culture transformation, namely:
in conflict, requiring balanced judgments to be exercised by
– Appoint and promote the right people the Board to arrive at its final decision.
84 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Responsible leadership continued
Stakeholder engagement and feedback provides an important They both maintain a continual and active dialogue with
means of identifying emerging issues that are then brought to institutional shareholders on our performance, plans and
the attention of the Board. This enables us to further consider objectives through a programme of regular meetings. During
our activities to enable us to deliver on our purpose and the year, they held over 60 individual meetings with major
ultimately our goal to become one of the world’s most shareholders and they have hosted a total of nearly 40 group
innovative, best-performing and trusted healthcare companies. meetings with major shareholders and potential major
shareholders.
Our principal Board Committees, and the CET, have delegated
powers that enable a more in-depth assessment and Our Senior Independent Director (SID), Vindi Banga, conducted
understanding of the impacts of the company’s actions or plans a series of meetings with investors and advisers to seek their
on stakeholders through engagement briefings. views on our Chairman succession process.
In particular, the Board’s knowledge is informed by the work of As a key part of his induction, our new Chairman, Jonathan
the Corporate Responsibility Committee, which is described in Symonds, wanted to hear what our shareholders thought of
more detail on page 109. GSK. Jon has held over 20 introductory meetings with a range
of investors comprising a third of the company’s share register.
To further improve their understanding of stakeholder matters,
He was keen to meet fund and portfolio managers, as well as
Board members are also encouraged on an individual level to
seeing governance professionals, so that he could gain a fuller
meet with employees, shareholders and other key stakeholders
picture of our major shareholders’ views and perspectives on
as part of their induction and thereafter on an ongoing basis for
GSK. The feedback he received is summarised in his
business awareness. They are encouraged to report to the
Governance statement on page 76 and informed the 2019
Board on their experiences where relevant and material.
Board review.
The Board is also advised of stakeholder views in a number of
Annual Governance Meeting
different ways, including:
In addition, the Board also holds an annual governance event
– The CEO’s Board Report with institutional shareholders, key investment industry bodies
– Monthly stakeholder perception reports and proxy advisory firms. This year’s event was held in
December 2019 in London and was hosted by the Chairman,
– Businesses updates
our SID, and our Committee Chairs.
– Business development analysis and justifications
Jon shared updates on why he joined the Board and key areas
– Board and Committee evaluations of focus for the Board including:
– Remuneration policy reviews and the wider workforce pay – his Induction, Shareholder meetings and initial impressions
perspective of GSK;
– Culture and Succession planning updates – the Audit & Risk Committee Chair succession process;
– Workforce Engagement Director’s updates – the Board review and potential changes to the Governance
architecture.
– Annual Governance Meeting
He also provided an update on behalf of the Workforce
– Annual General Meeting
Engagement Director who was unable to attend.
– Employee survey reports
Urs Rohner, our Remuneration Committee Chair, also took
– Briefings during Annual Strategy meetings the opportunity to discuss progress with the Remuneration
– The Annual Budget and Business planning process and Committee’s review of executive remuneration ahead of the
Remuneration policy vote at our Annual General Meeting in
– Corporate governance and regulatory development updates
May 2020. Judy Lewent, our Audit & Risk Committee Chair,
During the year, the Board received and considered Lynn Elsenhans, our Corporate Responsibility Committee Chair,
independent research into stakeholder perceptions of and Dr Jesse Goodman, who chairs our Science Committee,
GSK’s corporate reputation and views on its approach to also provided overviews of the work of their respective
ESG issues. Committees during the year.
Shareholder engagement The Annual Governance Meeting was well received and a
The Board seeks to directly engage with private retail and number of thoughtful and incisive questions were asked of the
institutional shareholders in several ways. This includes regular Board members present on GSK’s R&D capabilities, strategy
communications, the Annual General Meeting, our Annual and the plans for separation of the Group. Listening to the views
Governance Meeting, as well as the work of our Investor of our shareholders and receiving their feedback provided
Relations team and the Company Secretary. additional direct insights that were then shared with the rest of
During the year, after publication of our quarterly results, the Board at its next meeting.
the CEO, Emma Walmsley, and CFO, Iain Mackay, give
presentations to institutional investors, analysts and the media
by webcast teleconference. These presentations are made
available on GSK.com.
GSK Annual Report 2019 85Responsible leadership continued
Annual General Meeting Workforce engagement
All shareholders are invited to attend our Annual General We described on page 90 of last year’s Annual Report why
Meeting. which will be held in May 2020 at the Sofitel London the Board had chosen to designate Dr Vivienne Cox as our
Heathrow Hotel. See further details on page 291. Workforce Engagement Director to gather the views of our
people. The Board believed this would provide the most direct
Our 2019 Annual General Meeting had a good level of
and effective form of engagement for GSK. Vivienne is pleased
attendance and engagement from shareholders, which provided
to share below views on her inaugural year in the role.
helpful insights to the Board on issues concerning them.
All our proposed resolutions were approved by shareholders. The Board also takes the opportunity to engage with
employees directly via receptions held around Board meetings.
The level of support ranged from 88% to 99%. The full voting
Our Non-Executive Directors also attend internal meetings and
outcomes are available on GSK.com. Our Annual General
visit Group sites and report back on their findings.
Meeting provides an opportunity for all shareholders to put
questions to our Board and the Chairs of each of our Board
Committees during the formal proceedings, while providing
shareholders with the chance to meet informally with our
Directors who make themselves available before the meeting.
Workforce Engagement Director We were careful to ensure that I could engage with a diverse
It is a year since the Board appointed me to this role. I have cross-section of the workforce in terms of seniority, gender,
learned a great deal from the rich dialogue that I have enjoyed ethnicity, tenure of employment and job types. I am pleased
in meeting with a variety of our enthusiastic and dedicated that each meeting generated wide-ranging exchanges
employees. of opinion and insights.
I started with a comprehensive briefing on the Group from I have also been pleased to have briefings from HR on the
the Head of Human Resources perspective. I then agreed to data collected from GSK’s employee surveys to understand
make visits to employees who work at each of our principal the feedback they generate against different businesses and
businesses. This has allowed me to gain an understanding of employee groupings. This provides helpful insights and is
our workforce’s views and attitudes on a range of meaningful used as an input to determine which locations I visit whether
issues, such as our IPT priorities, the culture shift underway in person or virtually.
in the organisation, our ways of working, our employee
There is a standing item on the Board agenda for me to share
surveys and One80 manager feedback accountability,
feedback on the substance of my workforce engagements.
our approaches to Global health and the Modern employer
The Board uses my reports and those from other Non
agenda and also importantly to the eventual separation of the
Executive Directors’ visits to GSK sites to measure the
Group to create two new companies.
progress on the company’s Modern employer agenda which
I am grateful to be assisted by the Head of Human Resources focuses on Inclusion and diversity, Employee health and
and the Company Secretary in devising a programme which wellbeing and development. During my visits I have noted a
consisted of visits to three key GSK sites which have given clear and consistent support for the Group’s strategy and IPT
me exposure across the Group in countries where the priorities and the commitment to employees to ‘Be You, Feel
company has a significant presence: Good and Keep Growing’.
– R&D – Upper Providence in Pennsylvania, USA, one As we work to separate the Group, I will be working to
of GSK’s major pharmaceutical R&D hubs; provide a voice for the workforce as an important input for the
Board. I am looking forward to developing my role further
– Vaccines – Wavre, Belgium; and
utilising technology via virtual meetings and using other
– Consumer Healthcare – Warren site in New Jersey, where employee forums to explore their perspectives. I am planning
I met with cross sections of the new workforce (including to undertake one event each quarter, which where possible,
former Pfizer employees) in the new Joint Venture business. will align with Board visits or be held virtually. I look forward
The local management who welcomed me at these sites, did to reporting progress to you next year.
a great job of introducing me to members of the workforce, Finally, I have also enlisted input and feedback from my fellow
explained the nature of the sites’ operations and enabled Non-Executive Directors who are also active in visiting GSK
me to hold direct, open and honest conversations. Meetings sites and meeting employees, so that we can continue to
were held without management present, both individually build a more holistic view of perspectives and sentiment of
and in group settings, to gain insights into the workforce our workforce across the Group.
experiences, concerns and perspectives. This was done
partly through the use of ‘Let’s Talk’ – a GSK initiative whose
use is discussed on page 35 of the Annual Report – it Dr Vivienne Cox
encourages the workforce to talk and share different points Non-Executive Director
of view in an informal setting.
86 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Responsible leadership continued
This table sets out a list of principal decisions taken by either the Board or its Committees during 2019 and the regard to
stakeholder interests and impacts.
Stakeholder groups
How Board/Committee has had and other section 172 Principal decision made by
Decisions regard to stakeholder interests duties considered the Board and Board Committees
Sales force incentive (SFI) The Audit & Risk Committee considered Stakeholders: HCPs and The Committee recommended the
programme and recommended to the Board changes medical experts, employees, implementation of these limited SFI
to our SFI programme in certain countries investors, governments and programme changes to the Board for
to reflect the growing shift in GSK’s regulators, patients and approval.
portfolio to certain innovative Specialty consumers
To safeguard key stakeholder interests, the
Care products, including oncology.
Other s172 duties: new SFI programme is being implemented in
In particular, it examined the value of these Long-term results, our controlled phases across markets. A review
changes as a means of: workforce, business of the robustness of the programme’s
– attracting and retaining the best sales relationships and reputation governance arrangements will be presented
force talent; to the Committee later in the year.
– enhancing the quality of our dialogue Further details are available on page 97.
with healthcare professionals (HCP);
and
– helping the company to better serve
patients.
The Committee also stipulated the
implementation of robust governance
arrangements to underpin these changes
that uphold our ethical and values-led
approach to HCP engagement.
Business development The Science Committee and the Stakeholders: Patients and The Science Committee recommended these
and collaborations Board has reviewed several business consumers, employees and collaborations from a scientific perspective
development deals and collaborations investors prior to the Board approving them.
during the year. These have included the
Other s172 duties:
collaborations with Lyell Immunopharma
Long-term results, the
and The University of California, to help
workforce and our business
GSK obtain competitive advantage, by
relationships
adding pipeline optionality and enabling us
to gain access to key technologies.
These arrangements were considered in
the context of their promise to help GSK
deliver transformational medicines to
patients and the capabilities and talent
being made available to the company.
ESG Insights The Corporate Responsibility Committee Stakeholders: The Committee decided to include SASB
received and considered a perception Investors, governments disclosures in the company’s 2019 ESG
study with investors specifically interested and regulators, non- Performance Summary available on
in the ESG aspects of our activities, to governmental organisations GSK.com, and make its first voluntary
better understand the rapid rise in interest and multilateral organisations TCFD disclosure in the Annual Report
by investors in this area and their chief (see page 46).
Other s172 duties:
concerns. Long-term results, our The Committee raised with the Remuneration
The Committee noted and discussed business relationships, Committee Chair and the Remuneration
investors’ desire to see sustained delivery the community and our Committee the increasing importance of
of our Trust commitments and increased environment and reputation demonstrating the link between ESG
reporting aligned to both the Sustainability performance and our remuneration outcomes
Accounting Standards Board (SASB) and for Executive Directors and the CET. The
the Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Remuneration Committee noted the
Disclosures (TCFD). importance of stressing the link between
ESG and the delivery of GSK’s bonus
awards for the Executive Directors. It was
agreed that, in devising the new remuneration
arrangements for the two businesses post
separation, it would look more holistically at
how it could highlight further and incentivise
the importance of ESG to the success of the
business and to minimise its impact on the
environment.
GSK Annual Report 2019 87Responsible leadership continued
How Board/Committee has had Stakeholder groups and other Principal decision made by
Decisions regard to stakeholder interests section 172 duties considered the Board and Board Committees
Board governance and The Board engaged No 4 to undertake an Stakeholders: Employees, The Board agreed changes to its governance
architecture external evaluation that included a review investors, patients and and architecture to improve further Board
of our governance and Board architecture. consumers effectiveness and support management to
Other s172 duties: be as effective and efficient as possible in
Long-term results and delivering the transformation of the
reputation Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines business and
the separation of the Consumer Healthcare
business.
Further details are available on pages 76
to 78.
Remuneration policy Prior to developing the new 2020 Stakeholders: Employees, The Committee approved the new policy,
review Remuneration policy (the new policy), investors, governments and which is subject to a binding shareholder vote
on behalf of the Remuneration Committee, regulators, and proxy at our 2020 Annual General Meeting and
the Chair met with the Head of Human advisers includes measures to align our Executive
Resources and the HR leads for each Directors’ pension arrangements with those
Other s172 duties:
area of the business to hear their views on of the wider workforce. This has been a
Long-term results, our
remuneration arrangements at GSK and specific area of focus for investors and
workforce and reputation
consider further executive and wider proxy advisers.
workforce pay alignment opportunities. Further details are available on pages 116
The Chair consulted with investors and to 118.
proxy advisers on the new policy proposals
and the Committee then following the
engagement, carefully considered the
feedback before finalising the design of
the new policy.
88 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Responsible leadership continued
2019 Board programme
The Board is responsible for the long-term success of the company and has the authority, and is accountable to shareholders, for
ensuring that the Group is appropriately managed and achieves the strategic objectives it sets. In the performance of these duties,
it has regard to the interests of GSK’s key stakeholders and the potential impact of the decisions it makes on all stakeholders. The
Board discharges those responsibilities through an annual programme of meetings and during the year it focused on a number of
specific areas outlined in the table, in line with its long-term IPT priorities underpinned by a continuing shift in culture. In addition,
during the year the CEO met with Non-Executive Directors to discuss various matters, including the progress on the company’s
strategy, succession planning and continuing regulatory investigations.
Areas of focus Long-term priorities link
Strategy The Board’s oversight of the execution of our strategy included:
– Receiving and discussing reports from our three principal businesses: Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and Consumer I P T C
Healthcare
– Holding joint Board and CET strategy day to discuss IPT priorities against external landscape changes, business I P T C
performance, competitors and governance arrangements
– Receiving the CEO, CFO and CSO quarterly reports I P T C
Performance The Board’s focus on performance included:
– Evaluating the CEO’s 2018 performance and setting her 2019 objectives I P T C
– Setting, reviewing and agreeing the annual budget & plan and forward looking three year forecast P T
– 2019 annual talent & succession plan I P T C
– Scrutinising the Group’s financial performance P T
– Reviewing the quarterly financial results, dividend proposal, earnings guidance, investor materials and results P T
announcements
– Confirmation of the Viability statement and going concern P T
– Approval of the statutory accounts P T
Governance The Board’s approach to discharging its corporate governance duties included:
– Receiving reports from Board Committees T
– Receiving reports from the External Auditor P T
– Chairman succession & appointment of the new Chairman I P T
– Approving the 2018 Annual Report and Form 20-F T
– Reviewing Annual General Meeting preparation and approving the 2019 Notice of the Annual General Meeting T
– Calling a General Meeting to approve the Joint Venture with Pfizer Inc., and overseeing the execution of the deal T
– Receiving reports on corporate governance and regulatory developments and receiving the Secretary’s report T
– Considering observations and agreeing actions from the evaluation of the Board’s performance P T
– Annual setting of the Board’s priorities I P T C
– Approval of the Modern slavery statement T
– Approval of the Gender pay gap disclosure T
– Receiving the Annual quality update T C
Cultural – Receiving cultural transformation updates
I P T C
transformation
Engagement The Board’s regard for stakeholder impacts included:
– Reviewing the Board governance architecture I P T C
– Receiving updates from the Workforce Engagement Director I P T C
– Reviewing employee survey results updates I P T C
– Corporate reputation research review I P T C
– Investor perception research review I P T C
Link to long-term priorities Innovation I Performance P Trust T Culture C
GSK Annual Report 2019 89Division of responsibilities
Corporate governance framework
The corporate governance framework in operation during 2019, which was established by the Board, is set out below. It was
designed to clearly define responsibilities and accountabilities. The framework is designed to safeguard and enhance long-term
shareholder value and to provide a platform to realise the Group’s strategy through GSK’s long-term priorities of IPT, that is
consistent with its culture, values and expectations. Our internal control and risk management arrangements, described on pages
105 to 106 and 43 to 48, are an integral part of our governance framework.
Following the 2019 Board review, GSK’s Board governance and architecture were reviewed and enhanced further. A summary
of the changes to be introduced following the review, is provided in the Chairman’s statement on pages 76 and 77.
Board
Chief Nominations Audit & Risk Remuneration Science Corporate
Executive Committee Committee Committee Committee Responsibility
Officer Committee
Corporate
Executive R ead more Read more Read more Read more Read more
Team on page 92 on page 96 on page 115 on page 107 on page 109
See GSK.com for terms of reference for each Board Committee.
Scheduled Board and Committee attendance during 2019
Corporate
Board Nominations Audit & Risk Remuneration Science Responsibility
Total number of scheduled meetings 6 6 6 5 3 4
Members Attended Attended Attended Attended Attended Attended
Sir Jonathan Symonds 2 (2) 2 (2)
Emma Walmsley 6
Iain Mackay 6
Dr Hal Barron 6
Vindi Banga 6 6 6 5
Dr Vivienne Cox 6 5 4
Lynn Elsenhans 6 6 6 4
Dr Laurie Glimcher 6 6 3
Dr Jesse Goodman 6 3 4
Judy Lewent 6 6 6 5 3
Urs Rohner 6 5
Sir Philip Hampton
Retired on 31 August 2019 4 (4)
Simon Dingemans
Retired on 8 May 2019 3 (3)
Number of ad-hoc meetings 15 1 6 6 2 2
For Directors who served for part of the year, the numbers in brackets denote the number of meetings the Directors were eligible to attend.
See the Committee reports for other attendees at Committee meetings, such as the Chairman, CEO and other Executive Directors, and the work of the Committees
during the year. These reports are included later in the Corporate Governance report.
90 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Division of responsibilities continued
Clear division of Board roles and responsibilities
Leadership Independent oversight and rigorous challenge
Chairman Non-Executive Directors
Jonathan Symonds
– Provide a strong independent element to the Board
– Leads and manages the business of the Board – Constructively support and challenge management
– Provides direction and focus and scrutinise their performance in meeting agreed
– Ensures clear structure for effective operation of the deliverables
Board and its Committees – Shape proposals on strategy and offer specialist advice
– Sets Board agenda and ensures sufficient time is to management
allocated to promote effective debate to support sound – Each has a letter of appointment setting out the terms
decision making and conditions of their directorship
– Ensures the Board receives accurate, timely and clear – Devote such time as is necessary to the proper
information performance of their duties
– Meets with each Non-Executive Director on an annual – Are expected to attend all meetings as required.
basis to discuss individual contributions and
Independence statement
performance, together with training and development
needs The Board considers all of its Non-Executive Directors
– Shares peer feedback that is provided as part of the who are identified on pages 79 to 81 to be independent
Board evaluation process after being assessed against the circumstances set out
– Meets regularly with all the Non-Executive Directors in Provision 10 of the 2018 Code. The review and
independently of the Executive Directors explanation of the continuing independence and
– Maintains a dialogue with shareholders on the commitment of Judy Lewent, who will after 1 April 2020
governance of the company. have served on the Board for over nine years, is
described on page 77.
The Chairman’s role description is available on GSK.com
Senior Independent Director
Chief Executive Officer Vindi Banga
Emma Walmsley
– Acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and a trusted
– Responsible for the management of the Group and its intermediary for other Directors
three businesses – Together with the Non-Executive Directors, leads the
– Develops the Group’s strategic direction for annual review of the Chairman’s performance, taking
consideration and approval by the Board into account views of the Executive Directors
– Implements the agreed strategy – Discusses the results of the Chairman’s effectiveness
– Is supported by members of the CET review with the Chairman
– Maintains a continual and active dialogue with – Leads the search and appointment process and makes
shareholders in respect of the company’s performance. the recommendation to the Board for a new Chairman
– Acts as an additional point of contact for shareholders,
The Chief Executive Officer’s role description is available on GSK.com
maintains an understanding of the issues and concerns
of major shareholders through briefings from the
Company Secretary and Investor Relations.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director’s role description is
available on GSK.com
Company Secretary – Secretary to the Board and all Board Committees
Victoria Whyte – Supports the Board and Committee Chairs in annual agenda planning
– Ensures information is made available to Board members in a timely fashion
– Supports the Chairman in designing and delivering Board inductions
– Coordinates continuing business awareness and training requirements for the Non-Executive Directors
– Undertakes internal Board and Committee evaluations at the request of the Chairman
– Advises the Directors on Board practice and procedures, and corporate governance matters
– Chairs the Group’s Disclosure Committee
– Operates a Board-approved appointments policy that reflects the Board and external appointment
requirements of the 2018 Code
– Is a point of contact for shareholders on all corporate governance matters.
GSK Annual Report 2019 91Composition, succession and evaluation
Nominations Committee report
I am pleased to present my first report as Nominations
Jonathan Symonds Committee Chair.
Nominations Committee Chair During the year, the focus of the Committee was on Chairman
succession. Our SID, Vindi Banga led the process that resulted
in my appointment and his report on this process is outlined on
Role
page 94. I will comment on the other work of the Committee this
The Committee reviews and recommends to the Board:
year.
– the structure, size and composition of the Board and
Board changes
the appointment of Directors and Committee members
Since I joined the Board, the Committee has focused on the
– succession to the Board and the CET. search for Judy Lewent’s successor as Chair of the Audit & Risk
Committee. We have made good progress and look forward
to reporting the conclusion of our search in due course.
Membership
The Committee appointed Egon Zehnder and Korn Ferry to
Committee members Committee member since
assist with this appointment. Broad selection criteria were used
Sir Jonathan Symonds –
Chair from 1 September 2019 1 September 2019 focusing on potential candidates with the following
Vindi Banga 1 January 2016 characteristics:
Lynn Elsenhans 27 January 2015 – someone ideally from the pharmaceuticals industry;
Judy Lewent 8 May 2014
– a strong preference for a former CFO and/or candidates
Urs Rohner 1 January 2017
with audit committee experience to broaden the diversity
Philip Hampton 27 January 2015 until
(Former Committee Chair) 31 August 2019 of the talent pool being sought; and
– ideally, a qualified accountant.
Details of the Committee members’ skills and experience are given
in their biographies under ‘Our Board’ on pages 79 to 81. See page
The Committee also considered the ideal transition for this
90 for Committee member attendance levels.
important role and was very pleased when Judy Lewent agreed
The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee
to remain in post for a further year, despite her nine years of
and attends all meetings. Other attendees at Committee
service, before stepping down from the Board at the 2021
meetings may include:
Annual General Meeting. This will help facilitate a smooth
transition, especially given the recent change of CFO and
Regular Attends as
Attendees attendee required auditor and the work underway to transform and separate the
Chief Executive Officer ✓ Group. The Committee was mindful that the 2018 Code
Head of Human Resources ✓ indicated that Non-Executive Directors should not serve for
Appropriate external advisers ✓ more than nine years. However, after engagement with
shareholders, it recommended to the Board this was the most
appropriate way to proceed in the long-term interest of
Advisory services
shareholders. The Board confirmed that, despite her nine years’
During the year, Egon Zehnder and Korn Ferry provided
service, Judy continues to demonstrate the characteristics of
recruitment consultancy services to the Committee, in
independence in carrying out her role on the Board.
addition to recruitment and HR services which they
provide to the company. Egon Zehnder provides executive Iain Mackay started his role of Chief Financial Officer from
coaching services to certain Directors. The Committee 1 April 2019 after being appointed to the Board in August 2018.
supports the engagement of executive search firms, such He joined the Board on 14 January 2019 and was elected at the
as Egon Zehnder and Korn Ferry, who have signed up to Annual General Meeting on 8 May 2019. Simon Dingemans
the Voluntary Code of Conduct on gender diversity and retired from the company following the same Annual General
best practice. Egon Zehnder and Korn Ferry, with a Meeting, following eight years of service as Chief Financial
number of other executive search firms, received Officer. The process the Committee followed for Iain Mackay’s
accreditation in 2019 under the Enhanced Code of recruitment was described in last year’s report.
Conduct, for meeting exacting performance criteria and
best practice standards in gender-balanced selection for
FTSE 350 boards.
92 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Composition, succession and evaluation continued
Nominations Committee report continued
CET succession Progress towards our female ‘Board representation’ and
During the year, the Committee reviewed the following ‘Combined Executive Committee and Direct Reports’ targets
internal senior executive appointments to the CET on the of at least 33% by 2020 was published in the FTSE Women
recommendation of the CEO. Leaders 2019 report, which is reproduced below:
– Diana Conrad was appointed SVP, Human Resources in Female Representation as at 30 June 2019
2019 Report Female
April 2019, succeeding Claire Thomas who had performed Representation Metrics Board (2018) Combined (2018)
the role for over 10 years. 2020 FTSE 100 target 33.0% 33.0%
– Sally Jackson was appointed to the expanded role of Senior GSK 45.5% (45.5%) 38.1% (32.5%)
Vice President, Global Communications and CEO Office average 32.4% (30.2%) 28.6% (27.0%)
FTSE 100
and joined the CET in March 2019. highest 50.0% (50.0%) 61.3% (47.0%)
As at the date of this Report we have 45.5% women on
– Deborah Waterhouse, CEO of ViiV Healthcare, joined the
our Board (2018 – 41.7%) and 33.3% women on our CET
CET in January 2020.
(2018 – 21%).
Board composition, tenure and diversity
The Board has sought to balance its composition and tenure, Closing this gap between the Board and CET gender
and that of its Committees and to refresh them progressively representation and further increasing the pipeline of female
over time so that they can benefit from the experience of longer direct reports to the CET to achieve our 2020 target, was a
serving Directors, and the fresh external perspectives and particular area of attention. We are pleased that good progress
insights from newer appointees. has been made, such that at this stage we have exceeded our
2020 target on ‘Combined Executive Committee and Direct
Non-Executive Directors are drawn from a wide range of
Reports’. The representation of women in management
industries and backgrounds, including the pharmaceuticals
positions at GSK is illustrated on page 36, as part of the
industry and R&D, vaccines, consumer products and
gender diversity of GSK’s global workforce.
healthcare, medical research and academia, and insurance and
financial services, and have a wealth of experience of complex We are also pleased to report that we are in line with the Parker
organisations with global reach. Many of our Board members Report’s recommendation.
have experience of long-cycle industries, which is of great The Committee met with all Non-Executive Directors present
assistance in understanding the industry in which we operate. to receive and consider the succession plans for management
We are committed to the diversity of our Boardroom just as and the Executive Directors to ensure a diverse pipeline of
GSK is committed to equal opportunities for all our employees potential successors was available. The Committee also
and in the wider workforce at all levels of the organisation. regularly reviews succession planning for Non-Executive
The Board and management seek to encourage a diverse members of the Board.
and inclusive culture throughout GSK. Committee evaluation
The Committee’s annual evaluation exercise was externally
A key requirement of an effective Board is that it comprises
facilitated by No 4, who interviewed Committee members on my
a range and balance of skills, experience, knowledge, ethnicity,
behalf. It was concluded that the Committee continued to
gender, social-economic backgrounds and independence, with
operate effectively.
individuals who are prepared to challenge each other and work
as an effective team. This needs to be backed by a diversity It was agreed that the Committee’s role should be expanded
of personal attributes, including character, intellect, sound to encompass Corporate Governance matters, therefore freeing
judgement, honesty and courage. more time at the Board. The Committee will therefore be
renamed the Nominations & Corporate Governance Committee.
In support of promoting the long term success of the company,
In addition, all Non-Executive Directors will be invited to
the Committee is responsible for developing measurable
participate in meetings of the Committee when it considers
objectives to assist the implementation of the Board’s diversity
succession and talent.
policy, including gender and ethnic diversity, and monitoring
progress towards the achievement of these objectives. Our
diversity policy is in line with the measurable targets set out
Sir Jonathan Symonds
in the:
Nominations Committee Chair
– Hampton-Alexander Review to increase the number of
3 March 2020
women in senior leadership positions in all FTSE 350
companies; and
– Parker Review Commission’s report ‘Beyond One by ‘21’
to increase the ethnic diversity of appointments to the boards
of FTSE 100 companies.
GSK Annual Report 2019 93Composition, succession and evaluation continued
Chairman succession report
Chairman succession The following key personal attributes were identified in the job
At the beginning of 2019, we announced that Sir Philip specification:
Hampton had informed the Board of his intention to step – proven, respected Chair or a senior executive with
down as Chairman but would continue in his role until a new considerable non-executive director (such as a Senior
Chairman was selected and joined the Board. This was a Independent or Lead Independent Director) experience in
good time for a transition as the company was delivering businesses of scale and complexity;
improved operating performance and had developed a clear – experience of the UK capital markets with an appreciation
new strategy for the next few years. of US and other international shareholders;
The selection process was led by myself as the Board’s SID. – good understanding of UK corporate governance;
The Nominations Committee was expanded to comprise all – experience of businesses with significant portfolio change
Non-Executive Directors and supported by the Head of including mergers, acquisitions and divestments;
Human Resources and the Company Secretary. In addition,
– experience with global scale and international markets;
I sought input from the CEO, Emma Walmsley during the
– life sciences experience was preferable, but not mandatory;
process, as appropriate.
– experience of a regulated industry;
The Committee began by developing and agreeing a job
– reputation, stature and authority to command respect both
specification for the role of Chairman which included the
externally and internally.
skillset, experience and key leadership characteristics
required to lead the GSK Board through the next stage for Whilst deciding the job specification described above, I also
the company. We engaged Egon Zehnder and Korn Ferry, engaged with several shareholders and advisers and secured
both of whom specialise in the recruitment of high calibre their input and advice.
Chairs and Board Directors. Using both firms ensured that The pool of suitable candidates began with a long list; after
the process would be a truly global search and embrace as due consideration this was reduced to a short-list. Briefing
broad a talent pool as possible. Their work was validated from reports on the shortlisted candidates were reviewed, after
time-to-time to ensure that there were no gaps in the search which the candidates met with myself and other Board
process and that the committee was receiving the best members.
possible market advice for this key appointment.
This process resulted in the Nominations Committee
The job specification emphasised that the new Chairman believing that Jonathan Symonds was the most suitable
would lead the Board through the Company’s next phase of candidate to be GSK’s next Chairman. On 23 July 2019, in
development which would involve: accordance with the Nominations Committee’s terms of
– continuing to drive GSK’s strategy of building a sustainably reference and good governance, I chaired a meeting that
growing Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines business by recommended Jon’s appointment as a Non-Executive
strengthening R&D delivery and the pipeline; consolidating Director and the next Chairman. I also chaired a Board
the Tesaro acquisition; and undertaking further business meeting on the same day (with Sir Philip being recused) at
development; which this recommendation was approved unanimously. On
24 July 2019, I was pleased to announce that Jon would join
– successfully integrating the Pfizer Consumer Healthcare
the Board as Non-Executive Chairman with effect from 1
business into the GSK Consumer business; whilst
September 2019. Sir Philip stepped down from the Board
completing the divestment of Horlicks in India. This would
with effect from 31 August 2019.
thereby prepare the company for the creation of two
separate listed entities, with separate governance Jon met the independence requirements set out in the 2018
structures for Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and Consumer Code on appointment. As required by the Board-approved
Healthcare; external appointments policy, his significant existing
commitments, with an indication of time involvement, were
– whilst continuing to improve the company’s operating
disclosed and taken into consideration prior to his
performance;
appointment. The Board noted in particular that Jon would
– it was envisaged that the Chair would remain with the GSK step down from his role as Deputy Chair and Director of
Pharmaceutical & Vaccine company to provide appropriate HSBC on 18 February 2020.
stability and continuity. This was subject to performance The Board was pleased to welcome Jon, who has exceptional
and to be ratified by the Board at the appropriate time. experience in life sciences, and in the financial management
and governance of complex, regulated global companies.
Throughout his career Jon has demonstrated a passion for
science and is known for his integrity and professionalism.
Vindi Banga
Senior Independent Director
94 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Composition, succession and evaluation continued
External evaluation of the Board
Details of the 2019 independent external evaluation of the Board conducted by No 4 are set out on page 78.
Progress on 2018 Board evaluation
Progress against the conclusions of the 2018 Board evaluation review is set out below.
Areas of focus for 2018 Progress/Achievements
Succession planning for the Board
The SID was running the search process for the next Chairman supported The comprehensive process led by the SID resulting in the appointment
by a global executive search firm. Attendance at the Nominations Committee of Jonathan Symonds is described by the SID on page 94.
for this process was expanded to include all Non-Executive Directors.
The Nominations Committee has also been progressing the search for The Nominations Committee has also focused on the search for Judy
a successor for Judy Lewent, the Chair of the Audit & Risk Committee. Lewent’s successor. Good progress has been made to date. Details are
given on page 77.
Oversight of R&D and pipeline revival and key business development
transactions, and the proposed Consumer Healthcare joint venture
with Pfizer
The Board would continue to monitor the performance of R&D, the pipeline The Board and its Committees have monitored and overseen the successful
and the integration and operation of the key business development integration and operation of the recent transactions.
transactions including: Tesaro, 23andMe, Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, The Board was also pleased to oversee the early completion of the Consumer
Germany. It would also be reviewing and overseeing arrangements for the Healthcare joint venture with Pfizer. It will continue to monitor management’s
proposed Consumer Healthcare joint venture with Pfizer. progress in integrating and growing the business.
Building Board relationships and culture in line with the CEO’s culture
work across the Group
Continuing the evolution of the Board’s culture and building relationships The good progress being made in evolving the Board’s culture is noted
as the membership changed, was an important area of focus especially with in the 2019 Board review undertaken by No 4. See page 78.
the impending Chairman succession.
Further enhancing the Board’s decision-making and ways of working
Opportunities to further enhance the Board’s decision-making and ways of The implementation of agreed enhancements to the ways of working and
working would continue to be considered to ensure that the Board can governance architecture of the Board and its Committees are described by
operate as effectively as possible. the Chairman in his Governance statement on pages 76 and 77.
GSK Annual Report 2019 95Audit, risk and internal control
Audit & Risk Committee report
In the following pages of this report we aim to share insights into
Judy Lewent the activities undertaken or overseen by the Committee during
Audit & Risk Committee Chair the year. The Committee has worked largely to a recurring and
structured programme of activities. I devise this programme with
the Company Secretary and agree its content with management
Role
and the external auditors at the start of each year. It is then
The Committee reviews and is responsible for:
adapted as appropriate as the year progresses.
– financial and internal reporting processes Financial reporting
– the integrity of the financial statements, including the The integrity of the financial statements, including the Annual
Annual Report and quarterly results announcements Report and quarterly results announcements, is a key focus for
the Committee. This includes the Committee’s assessment of
– the system of internal controls
the effectiveness of the internal controls over financial reporting.
– identification and management of risks and external The Committee reviewed, at least quarterly, the company’s
and internal audit processes and significant accounting matters, including contingent
– initiating audit tenders, the selection and appointment consideration liabilities, revenue recognition and accruals
of the external auditor, setting their remuneration and for returns and rebates, restructuring, tax and accounting for
exercising oversight of their work. significant transactions, as well as the impact of changes to
accounting standards.
The Committee’s position has always been to aim for clear and
Membership
transparent financial disclosure in GSK’s financial reporting and
Committee members Committee member since
to support a proactive approach that is in step with or ahead of
Judy Lewent – 1 April 2011
guidance and requirements from regulators. In line with prior
Chair from 1 January 2013
years, the Committee continued to review compliance with the
Vindi Banga 1 January 2016
latest guidance.
Lynn Elsenhans 1 January 2014
Dr Laurie Glimcher 1 September 2017 The Committee and the auditor discuss the significant issues
in relation to the financial statements that the Committee
Details of the Committee members’ financial, accounting or scientific
experience and expertise are given in their biographies under ‘Our considers periodically through the year and areas of particular
Board’ on pages 79 and 81. See page 90 for Committee member audit focus and the outcomes of these overlapping areas of
attendance levels.
attention are disclosed separately on pages 154 and 165 of
The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee the Annual Report.
and attends all meetings. The entire Board is invited to Audit reform and our external auditors
attend the Committee meetings and other attendees
Reviews of the external audit industry have acknowledged that
include:
a diversity of stakeholders make use of a company’s audited
accounts and statements and that poor quality audits can have
Regular Attends as
Attendee attendee required significant negative repercussions upon the economy and
General Counsel ✓ society as a whole (albeit that an auditor’s responsibility in law
Group Financial Controller ✓ is only to shareholders as a whole). Associated reform of the
Head of Audit & Assurance ✓ external audit market is therefore an area of regulatory
Head of Global Ethics and Compliance ✓ development that the Committee is monitoring closely.
Chief Medical Officer ✓
Another key activity of the Committee is to monitor the
Chief Product Quality Officer ✓ performance of Deloitte. 2019 was the second year Deloitte
External auditor ✓ served as GSK’s external auditor. There was an extensive
In accordance with the FRC’s 2018 Code, the Board has change management process, including a formal handover
determined that Judy Lewent has recent and relevant and observation of the previous auditor before Deloitte took
financial experience. The Board has also agreed that she has over. An ‘After Action Review’ of Deloitte’s first audit was
the appropriate qualifications and background to be an audit completed, as part of which approximately 120 key members
committee financial expert as defined by the Sarbanes-Oxley of management were interviewed to gather feedback with
Act of 2002, and has determined that she is independent respect to Deloitte’s first audit.
within the meaning of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
as amended.
The Committee has, as a whole, competence relevant to
the sector in which the company operates.
96 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Audit, risk and internal control continued
Audit & Risk Committee report continued
Learnings and efficiencies identified in the After Action Review The Committee considered in detail the rationale around
were incorporated into the 2019 Audit Plan. Objectives for the the limited changes to the SFI programme and the robust
2019 audit were set, agreed and continue to be monitored by governance arrangements underpinning them within the
the Committee. Further information on the effectiveness of this context of GSK’s IPT priorities, before recommending the
year’s audit process is given on page 102. implementation of these policy changes to the Board in May
2019. The new SFI policy is being implemented in controlled
The Committee discussed with Deloitte examples of how
phases across markets. The Committee received
the use of analytical tools and insights have supported and
a report in December 2019 on the outcome of IBM monitoring
improved the efficiency and effectiveness of its audit work.
of both the SFI activities and controls performed by GEC.
Business development transactions
Managing change to the SFI programme has and will continue
Oversight of the Tesaro transaction and the Consumer
to be a significant activity for the Committee, given the potential
Healthcare JV with Pfizer has been a key priority for the
associated risks. Therefore, GEC is committed to performing a
Committee, given the importance of the success of these
full IBM review of the SFI changes as they gain traction across
transactions to accelerate the Group’s strategy and reshape
the markets during 2020 and will present their findings and
our business. The Committee has received regular reports on
learnings to the Committee at the end of this year.
the integration and management of Tesaro. This has included
Fundamental to the success of the new SFI programme is
reviewing the R&D risks of the deal itself, and monitoring the
strong leadership to continue to drive a culture of Performance
known operational, compliance and reputational risks, and
with Trust, enforced with measured governance controls and
he associated mitigation plans. The integration across the
zero tolerance for abuse. The Committee regularly monitors
commercial and medical functions progressed well and was
and reviews these internal controls and also held a deep-dive
completed with effect from 1 January 2020.
session with the leaders of GSK’s principal businesses to
The Committee also exercised responsibility for monitoring
discuss their individual engagement, accountabilities and
and overseeing the Consumer joint venture’s risk management
views on balancing Performance and Trust priorities in their
and post day one due diligence. Because the JV operates in
own businesses.
an extremely competitive and changing environment, the
Internal framework for control and risk management
Committee has focused on the management of three enterprise
developments
risks that are relevant to the delivery of the joint venture’s
Our risk management framework is well embedded and
strategic priorities: commercial practices, supply chain
continually reviewed by the Committee. It enables the Board,
continuity and portfolio ingredient risk.
through the Committee, to identify, evaluate and manage
HCP and SFI changes principal risks and is designed to support our Innovation,
The Committee has devoted significant time during the year to Performance and Trust priorities and cultural transformation.
reviewing the design and governance arrangements that formed The framework provides for an effective hierarchy of Risk
part of the HCP engagement policy and the SFI programme Management and Compliance Boards (RMCBs) within each
changes. The move to the promotion of Speciality medicines, of GSK’s businesses which promotes the ‘tone from the top’,
underpinned by the HCP and SFI changes, has been well establishes the risk culture and oversees the effective cascade
executed and received positively both externally and internally. and escalation of information regarding our internal controls.
However, this presents an increased risk for potential unethical Along with GSK’s values, expectations and Speak Up
behaviour which is to be comprehensively controlled and processes, it ensures that the risks associated with our business
mitigated. activities are actively and effectively agreed and mitigated and
At the end of 2019, the Committee received a presentation on provides reasonable assurance against material misstatement
the results from an HCP engagement theme review, conducted or loss. GEC has conducted an annual confirmation exercise
by Global Ethics and Compliance (GEC) and Independent to ensure that our risk management approach is consistent
Business Monitoring (IBM) across 13 markets, covering one across GSK and to reinforce leadership accountability.
third of eligible markets. The review had identified several During the year, the Committee considered GSK’s risks and
process learnings which are being embedded across all the the strategies to address them. In doing so, it has drawn on
markets that are covered by the HCP engagement programme. annual business unit risk and strategy papers and also
assurance update reports provided by Audit & Assurance (A&A)
for GSK’s most significant risks, with an annual internal control
and risk management effectiveness review from GEC.
GSK Annual Report 2019 97Audit, risk and internal control continued
Audit & Risk Committee report continued
Each principal risk is overseen by a CET member level risk Each business reported to the Committee on key Internal
owner to ensure proportionate controls are in place, with clear Control Framework (ICF) improvements and simplification
plans assigned to address any gaps. The Committee considers activities to further improve how we manage risks. These are
both current and emerging risks as part of its oversight of summarised below:
GSK’s risk management framework.
Pharmaceuticals: Along with the embedding of the HCP
Emerging risks are defined as those which are visible to the engagement model as noted above, General Manager
organisation on a three-year horizon. Emerging risk confirmation, which forms a component of the CET confirmation
assessments are performed as part of the remit of the RMCBs process, continues to be an important review of risks and
at all levels of the organisation. Additionally, an annual analysis mitigation plans that allows detailed area and regional oversight.
of the Political, Economic, Social, Technological, Legal and The 2019 confirmation allowed for targeted discussions at
Environmental (PESTLE) trends from the external environment RMCBs with a better understanding of the deployment of
is performed by the A&A team to identify emerging risk in operating model changes, mitigation actions and accountability
GSK’s known Enterprise risk areas. Each year, the CET and for local control efforts.
Risk Oversight and Compliance Council (ROCC) conduct
Vaccines: During the year, the Vaccines business has worked
a formal risk review to consider emerging risks and whether
to increase the ICF maturity and improve effectiveness of its
sufficient information is available to support its inclusion in
RMCBs. A new R&D governance model has been built around
GSK’s principal risks list.
principles of faster decision making and a smart risk-taking
This review is supported by extensive analysis of external trends approach. Vaccines has continued to perform comprehensive
and insights, senior level interviews and recommendations from asset risk assessments complementing the implementation
GSK’s key risk intelligence groups and risk management of the new enterprise risk management framework.
boards. Based on the 2019 review, the Committee agreed
Consumer Healthcare: To better understand risks in-country
with the CET recommendation to escalate Environmental
a Country Risk Radar has been launched which helps to
Sustainability as a standalone principal risk in 2020 given its
proactively identify higher risk countries by looking at culture,
significance to GSK. This was previously managed as a
commercial KPIs and qualitative aspects. It provides judgement
sub-risk of Environment, Health & Safety and Sustainability.
to where specific action plans are necessary to mitigate risk.
Other risks which will require further focus going forward
An improved management monitoring toolkit was also
include transformation, pricing pressures and non-promotional
developed to support General Manager self-assessments
engagement.
and to enhance control maturity.
Enterprise risk management enhancements: The Committee
A Consumer Healthcare distribution activity risk management
has overseen the embedding by GEC of the new enterprise risk
framework has been developed to allow markets to understand
management cycle:
the distributor activity risk dependent on the type of services
– Enterprise risk plans have been completed for each of our delivered by the service provider. The tool provides guidance on
enterprise risks and have been communicated to the expected controls to manage the risk which will be implemented
businesses and functions for implementation. This has globally by the end of March 2020.
provided greater clarity across the organisation on the nature
ViiV Healthcare: One particular area of focus for ViiV has been
of our risks and what controls we expect to be in place;
further improving the effectiveness of RMCBs, driving robust
– Businesses and functions have given assurance that they risk discussion, clear risk owner accountability and
have adopted these enterprise risk plans and only adapted proportionate risk mitigation.
them with the approval of the enterprise risk owner, driving
Monitoring and compliance activities
consistency and better oversight;
Monitoring is a key part of our ICF. During 2019, GEC
– A requirement for CET confirmation has been introduced continued to mature its IBM framework for ABAC and
across the Group in the most important risk areas reinforcing Commercial practices risks. IBM is conducted across the
leader accountability for risk management and measuring enterprise with a significant focus on prioritising the monitoring
how well the controls set out in the enterprise risk plans have of our highest risk activities and risk markets for review. In 2019,
been implemented and any gaps have been addressed; and GEC has led over 70 IBM market visits across GSK’s principal
businesses. The maturity of GSK’s IBM programme helps
– New enterprise risk reports for the ROCC have been
provide greater confidence that issues are being identified
introduced with more focus on data and key risk indicators,
and therefore addressed earlier.
leading to better informed discussions on risk exposure and
actions needed.
98 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Audit, risk and internal control continued
Audit & Risk Committee report continued
GSK Values & Expectations Committee evaluation
GSK’s Values and Expectations are a high priority for the The Committee’s annual evaluation was externally facilitated
Committee. The A&A team conducted 18 Values Assurance by No 4, who interviewed Committee members on my behalf.
Reviews (VARs) during 2019 to assess how well GSK’s values It was concluded that the Committee continued to operate
and expectations are embedded in the organisation. Insights effectively. In terms of enhancements to the Committee’s
from the VARs have identified two continuing areas of focus: deliberations the following improvement points were agreed:
creating an environment where people are comfortable
The Committee should continue to have a strong focus on
speaking up about issues and challenging the status quo;
financial reporting, as well as monitoring the dashboard of all
and raising awareness of GSK’s expectations and helping
GSK’s enterprise risks and the process by which they are
people understand what they mean in the context of their roles.
identified and prioritised. Following the review of the Board’s
Living our values and expectations: This year, the mandatory governance and architecture, the Committee will conduct more
training strategy was focused on simplifying the key messages detailed reviews of GSK’s Financial controls and reporting,
and behaviours that GSK wanted to communicate by Anti bribery and corruption practices, Commercial practices,
compressing the training into smaller pieces to facilitate learning Privacy and Information security enterprise risks. Detailed
and retention, and through driving conversations between review of GSK’s other enterprise risks will be undertaken by
employees and line managers. the Board Committee focused on that aspect of the business
most closely. In addition, the Committee will be responsible
Data Analytics: Building on existing capabilities, GEC has
for oversight of the financial components as we work towards
established a Data analytics workstream which focuses on
separation.
developing market-level Key risk indicators that are designed to
signal where there may be potential issues in a business activity, Audit & Risk Committee Chair succession
and improving the quality of GEC data so it can be used to I am approaching the end of my tenure on the Board. However,
provide actionable insights to assist the business further in to facilitate a smooth transition to my successor, I have agreed
mitigating risk. to stay on the Board for a further year until the 2021 Annual
General Meeting, subject to my re-election at the Annual
Monitoring of technology and InfoProtect
General Meeting in May 2020. I look forward to working with
The Committee continues to monitor the effectiveness of
and handing over to my successor once they are announced.
risk management and internal control over the use of new
technologies that impact the Financial controls and reporting
enterprise risk. Given the fast pace of technological
development, including the ability for new technologies
to perform tasks traditionally undertaken by humans, the Judy Lewent
Committee considered in particular the impact of robotics Audit & Risk Committee Chair
and artificial intelligence. 3 March 2020
Our Finance function aims to improve performance and efficacy,
reduce costs and manage risk better by optimising the use
of technology. GSK continues to develop cloud applications,
robotics, visualisation tools and advanced analytics.
Governance frameworks are in place to ensure that new
technology is assessed, developed, piloted, deployed and
monitored in a controlled manner.
InfoProtect: In recognising the potential impacts of a
continuously evolving environment and the complexity
of GSK’s footprint on this key enterprise risk, the Committee
will now receive quarterly updates on information security.
The Committee is also overseeing the introduction by our
Chief Information Security Officer of an industry standard
framework for monitoring and reporting on information
security at GSK.
GSK Annual Report 2019 99Audit, risk and internal control continued
What the Committee did during 2019
Areas of Committee focus Items discussed Frequency
Financial – Reviewed integrity of draft financial statements, appropriateness of accounting policies and going concern A
reporting assumptions
– Considered approval process for confirming and recommending to the Board that the 2018 Annual Report is fair, A
balanced and understandable
– Reviewed and recommended to the Board approval of the 2018 Annual Report and Form 20-F A
– Reviewed and recommended the statutory accounts A
– Reviewed major restructuring reports A
– Reviewed and recommended approval of quarterly and preliminary results announcements, dividends and earnings Q
guidance
– Reviewed significant issues in relation to the quarterly and preliminary results Q
– Reviewed and approved Directors’ expenses A
– Reviewed and recommended inclusion of the Viability Statement in the 2018 Annual Report A
– Reviewed the Appropriateness of Accounting Policies Q
– Reviewed accounting developments and their impacts as well as key accounting issues P
– Reviewed the financial reporting framework and disclosure arrangements P
External – Performed evidence-based assessment of external auditor and the effectiveness of 2018 external audit S
auditor – Considered qualifications, expertise and independence of the external auditor A
– Reviewed and approved audit/non-audit expenditure incurred during 2018 A
– Approved the 2019 audit plan and fee proposal and set performance expectations for auditor for the year A
– Considered non-audit services fees for 2019 and the 2020 audit budget A
– Considered the auditor’s report on the 2018 annual results A
– Considered initial results of 2019 external audit A
– Considered the external auditor review report, progress report & key judgemental items A
– Considered internal controls over financial reporting P
Global internal – Reviewed assurance reports from Global Pharmaceuticals (including ViiV, R&D and SFI Programme update), A
control and Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare, as well as the Global Support functions
compliance – Confirmed compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley Act A
– Received litigation reports and updates P
– Received reports on continuing investigations and on Anti-bribery and corruption issues A
– Reviewed GSK’s internal control framework and controls over financial reporting P
– Reviewed Audit & Assurance work during 2018 and approved the work plan for 2019 A
– Reviewed the Tesaro Integration Plan P
– Reviewed General Data Protection Regulation update P
– Reviewed Internal Audit reports P
Risk – Reviewed risk management framework compliance A
– Reviewed the risk elements of group treasury, pensions, risk and insurance, and tax policies A
– Considered emerging risks P
– Received status reports on each of the company’s Enterprise Risks (these Risks are disclosed on pages xx and xx) P
– Received fraud, site security and cyber security risk assessment updates P
– Received ROCC meeting updates P
Governance and – Review of the new provisions and confirmation of compliance with the 2018 Code A
other matters – Reviewed the Committee’s terms of reference and confirmed that they had been adhered to during 2019 A
– Reviewed reports from the Disclosure Committee P
– Reviewed the Committee’s performance and effectiveness A
– Received corporate governance updates P
– Reviewed the Group’s Modern Slavery Act statement A
– Reviewed the company’s gender pay gap disclosures P
– Considered the SFI Programme S
– Reviewed technology in audit and assurance P
– Reviewed the balance between Performance and Trust A
– Met privately and separately with the Heads of GEC, A&A and the General Counsel P
– Met privately with the external auditor at the end of each meeting, as appropriate S
Committee Activity Key A Annually Q Quarterly P Periodically S Standing
100 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Audit, risk and internal control continued
Significant issues relating to the financial statements
In considering the quarterly financial results announcements and the financial results contained in the 2019 Annual Report, the
Committee reviewed the significant issues and judgements made by management in determining those results. The Committee
reviewed papers prepared by management setting out the key areas of risk, the actions undertaken to quantify the effects of the
relevant issues and the judgements made by management on the appropriate accounting required to address those issues in the
financial statements.
The significant issues considered in relation to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2019 are set out in the
following table, together with a summary of the financial outcomes where appropriate. In addition, the Committee and the external
auditor have discussed the significant issues addressed by the Committee during the year and the areas of particular audit focus,
as described in the Independent Auditor’s Report on pages 154 to 165.
Significant issues considered by the Committee
in relation to the financial statements How the issue was addressed by the Committee
Going concern basis for the preparation The Committee considered the outcome of management’s half-yearly reviews of current and forecast net
of the financial statements debt positions and the various financing facilities and options available to the Group. Following a review
of the risk and potential impact of unforeseen events, the Committee confirmed that the application of the
going concern basis for the preparation of the financial statements continued to be appropriate.
Revenue recognition, including returns The Committee reviewed management’s approach to the timing of recognition of revenue and accruals for
and rebates (RAR) accruals customer returns and rebates. The US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines accrual for returns and rebates was
£4.2 billion at 31 December 2019 and the Committee reviewed the basis on which the accrual had been
made and concurred with management’s judgements on the amounts involved. A fuller description of the
process operated in the US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines business in determining the level of accrual
necessary is set out in ‘Critical accounting policies’ on page 72.
Provisions for legal matters, including The Committee received detailed reports on actual and potential litigation from both internal and external
investigations into the Group’s legal counsel, together with a number of detailed updates on investigations into the Group’s commercial
commercial practices practices. Management outlined the levels of provision and corresponding disclosure considered necessary
in respect of potential adverse litigation outcomes and also those areas where it was not yet possible to
determine if a provision was necessary, or its amount. At 31 December 2019, the provision for legal matters
was £0.2 billion, as set out in Note 31 to the financial statements, ‘Other provisions’.
Provisions for uncertain tax positions The Committee considered current tax disputes and areas of potential risk and concurred with
management’s judgement on the levels of tax contingencies required. At 31 December 2019, a tax payable
liability of £0.8 billion, including provisions for uncertain tax positions, was recognised on the Group’s
balance sheet.
Acquisitions of Tesaro and Pfizer The Committee considered the judgements made by management on the acquisition date valuations
Consumer Healthcare business of the assets and liabilities acquired, in particular the valuations of intangible assets. The intangible assets
acquired with Tesaro were valued at £3.1 billion and with the Pfizer Consumer Healthcare business,
£12.4 billion. The Committee concurred with management’s valuation judgements. Further details are
provided in Note 40 to the financial statements, ‘Acquisitions and disposals’.
Impairments of intangible assets The Committee reviewed management’s process for reviewing and testing goodwill and other intangible
assets for potential impairment. The Committee accepted management’s judgements on the intangible
assets that required writing down and the resulting impairment charge of £130 million in 2019. See
Note 20 to the financial statements, ‘Other intangible assets’ for more details.
Valuation of contingent consideration The Committee considered management’s judgement that the unwind of the discount on the liability
in relation to ViiV Healthcare was largely offset by updated exchange rate assumptions and adjustments to sales forecasts. After cash
payments of nearly £0.9 billion in the year, at 31 December 2019, the Groups’ Balance sheet included a
contingent consideration liability of £5.1 billion in relation to ViiV Healthcare. See Note 32 to the financial
statements, ‘Contingent consideration liabilities’ for more details.
ViiV Healthcare put option The Committee reviewed and agreed the accounting for the Pfizer put option and concurred with
management’s judgement on the valuation of the put option of £1.0 billion at 31 December 2019.
GSK Annual Report 2019 101Audit, risk and internal control continued
Auditor’s re-appointment
External auditor – clarity of communication by the auditor and its ways
Following an audit tender process conducted by the Committee of working;
which concluded in December 2016, Deloitte’s appointment
– alignment of the 2019 audit to the Group’s investment
as the auditor of the company and the Group was approved
in SAP;
by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in May 2018.
– quality of the audit team’s leadership; and
There were no contractual or similar obligations restricting
the Group’s choice of external auditor. – skills and experience of the audit team.
The Committee considers that during 2019, the company The Committe Chair regularly meets independently with the
has complied with the mandatory audit processes and audit audit partners. In addition, at the end of each face to face
committee responsibility provisions of the Competition and meeting the Committee meets with the auditor to exchange
Markets Authority Statutory Audit Services Order 2014. views on progress to date, as appropriate.
Effectiveness and quality of external audit process Having reviewed all this feedback, and noted any areas of
The Committee is committed to ensuring on an ongoing improvement to be implemented in respect of the Audit team
basis that GSK receives a high quality and effective audit for the 2020 audit, the Committee: was satisfied with the:
from its external auditor. In evaluating Deloitte’s performance – effectiveness of the auditor and the external audit process;
during 2019, prior to making a recommendation on their and
re-appointment in early 2020, the Committee reviewed the
– auditor’s independence, qualifications, objectivity, expertise
effectiveness of its performance against the criteria which
and resources.
it agreed, in conjunction with management, at the beginning
of 2019. The criteria are set out on page 103. The Committee therefore agreed to recommend to the Board
the re-appointment of Deloitte at the forthcoming Annual
In undertaking this review, the Committee considered:
General Meeting.
– the overall quality of the audit;
– the independence of Deloitte; and
– whether they have exhibited an appropriate level of challenge
and scepticism in their work.
Because Deloitte had recently been appointed GSK’s auditor,
its length of tenure was not taken into account when assessing
its independence and objectivity. However, the Committee did
consider overall how effectively Deloitte had assumed its role
as auditor.
Finally, the Committee considered feedback on the 2019
external audit through a survey that sought views from
Committee members and the financial management team
at corporate and business unit level.
It covered the:
– effectiveness of challenge by the auditor;
– Deloitte’s integrity;
– transparency of its reporting to management
and the Committee;
102 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Audit, risk and internal control continued
Auditor’s re-appointment continued
The detailed criteria the Committee used for judging the effectiveness of Deloitte as the external auditor and its overriding
responsibility to deliver a smooth-running, thorough and efficiently executed audit for 2019 are set out below:
Performance expectations for GSK’s external auditor 2019
Audit approach – Leverage a centrally controlled audit approach, ensuring that GSK group, joint venture and local statutory entities were audited once
and strategy: and once only;
– Refine a consistent technology-led audit with enhanced risk assessment and analytical procedures, providing insights that combined
data trend analysis, process cycle pathways, and the identification of audit risks, ensuring a well-informed and efficient audit; and
– Deliver a focused and consistent audit approach globally that reflected local risks and materiality.
High quality – Adhere to all independence policies (GSK’s, the FRC’s 2016 Revised Ethical Standard and applicable SEC standards);
independent
– Maintain a relentless focus on audit quality and Deloitte’s internal quality control procedures;
audit:
– Provide timely clarity on assessments of accounting treatments and ensure consistency of advice at all levels;
– Maintain a forward-thinking approach by raising potential issues or concerns as soon as identified;
– Provide timely up-to-date knowledge of technical and governance issues, including evolving market practice on the Viability
Statement requirements, ESMA/SEC guidelines and new IFRSs (i.e. IFRS 16);
– Serve as an industry resource; communicating best practice trends in reporting and integrated reporting; and
– Provide high quality and succession planning of key staff members of Deloitte and ensure their technical skillsets are continuously
enhanced.
Effective – Deliver a smooth running, thorough and efficiently executed audit by:
partnership:
– Discussing approach and areas of focus in advance and early engagement on understanding the implications of the new
operating model;
– Ensuring Sarbanes Oxley scope and additional procedures were discussed and understood by management and communicated
on a timely basis within GSK and Deloitte;
– Timely reporting of issues at all levels within the Group;
– Early engagement on and provision of impact assessments of key judgements;
– Ensuring clarity of roles and responsibilities between local Deloitte and Finance Services;
– Responding to any issues raised by management on a timely basis;
– Meeting agreed deadlines;
– Providing sufficient time for management to consider draft auditor reports and respond to requests and queries; and
– Consistent and timely communication and engagement between local and central audit teams, and across all GSK
stakeholder groups.
– Liaise with A&A to avoid duplication of work and GEC to ensure a common understanding of audit findings, adopting
a collaborative approach to solving issues; and
– Ultimately provide a high-quality service to the Board, shareholders and relevant stakeholders be scrupulous in its scrutiny
of the Group and act with utmost integrity.
Value for – Work closely with management to agree on scope changes, overruns and efficiencies and set clear milestones for continuous
money: monitoring; and
– Provide transparency of audit time and cost incurred analysis against budget, identifying areas that will enable reduction in audit
hours without compromising audit quality and commensurately reducing audit fees.
GSK Annual Report 2019 103Audit, risk and internal control continued
Non-audit services
There is a presumption that non-audit services will be provided Prohibitions: GSK’s policy includes a ‘black list’ of prohibited
by other accountancy firms. non-audit services.
However, where the external auditor’s skills and experience Pre-approval: The category-wide pre-approval process reflects
make them the only suitable supplier of the non-audit service the restrictions in the FRC’s 2016 Guidance on Audit
they may be authorised to provide non-audit services (such as Committees, so that all non-audit services:
audit-related, tax and other services). In accordance with GSK’s
– over £50,000 are pre-approved by the Committee Chair
policy, the Committee ensures that auditor objectivity and
and CFO as delegated by the Committee;
independence will be safeguarded by reviewing and pre-
– between £25,000 and £50,000 are pre-approved by the
approving such services.
Group Financial Controller; and
The following core policy guidelines on engaging the external
– under £25,000 are approved by a designate of the Group
auditor to provide non-audit services are observed:
Financial Controller.
– Process: all non-audit services over £50,000 are put out to
Fees paid to the company’s auditor and its associates are set
competitive tender with financial service providers other than
out below. Further details are given in Note 8 to the financial
the external auditor, in line with the Group’s procurement
statements, ‘Operating profit’.
process, unless the skills and experience of the external
auditor make them the only suitable supplier;
– Safeguards: ensuring adequate safeguards are in place so Audit & other services comparison(£m)
that the objectivity and independence of the Group audit are
not threatened or compromised; and 2019
1.4 30.3
Deloitte
– Fee cap: ensuring that the total fee payable for non-audit
services does not exceed 50% of the annual audit fee,
except in special circumstances where there would be a
222000111888
clear advantage in the company’s auditor undertaking such DDDeeellloooiiitttttteee 333...999 222666...222
additional work.
– The company’s policy complies with the FRC’s 2016 Revised
2017
Ethical Standard and the EU Audit Regulation and the PwC 1.9 2276.7.6
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The company’s policy contains
the following three guidelines:
0 10 20 30
Fee cap: there is a cap of 50% of the annual audit fee which Audit and assurance services
Other services, including tax, regulatory, compliance and
is more stringent than the FRC’s fee cap set at 70% of the
treasury-related services
average fees for the preceding three-year period.
Fair, balanced and understandable assessment
One of the key compliance requirements of a group’s financial Code of Conduct and reporting lines
statements is for the Annual Report to be fair, balanced and We also have a number of well-established policies, (including
understandable. The co-ordination and review of Group-wide a Code of Conduct), which are available on GSK.com, together
contributions into the Annual Report follows a well-established with details of our confidential ‘Speak Up’ reporting lines for
and documented process, which is performed in parallel with the reporting and investigation of unlawful conduct. An updated
the formal process undertaken by the external auditor. version of the Code of Conduct was last published in April 2018.
The Committee received a summary of the approach taken by
management in the preparation of GSK’s 2019 Annual Report
to ensure that it met the requirements of the FRC’s 2018 Code.
This enabled the Committee, and then the Board, to confirm
that GSK’s 2019 Annual Report taken as a whole is fair,
balanced and understandable and provides the information
necessary for shareholders to assess the company’s position
and performance, business model and strategy.
104 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Audit, risk and internal control continued
Internal control framework
The Board recognises its obligation to present a fair, balanced The Group’s ROCC, a team of senior leaders, is mandated
and diligent assessment of GSK’s current position and by the Board to assist the Committee in overseeing risk
prospects. The Board is accountable for evaluating and management and internal control activities. It also provides the
approving the effectiveness of the internal controls, including business with a framework for risk management and upward
financial, operational and compliance controls, and risk escalation of significant risks. Each business unit has a risk
management processes operated by GSK. board structure which reports to the ROCC. The business unit
RMCBs are responsible for promoting the local ‘tone from the
The Internal Control Framework (the Framework) is a
top’ and risk culture, as well as ensuring effective oversight of
comprehensive enterprise-wide risk management model and
internal controls and risk management processes.
the means by which GSK ensures the reliability of financial
reporting and compliance with laws and regulations. The Each principal risk has an assigned risk owner who is a member
Framework supports the continuous process of the Board’s of senior management. The risk owner is accountable for the
identification, evaluation and management of the Group’s management of his/her respective principal risk, including the
principal risks, as required by the FRC’s 2018 Code, and is setting of risk mitigation plans, their implementation and for
designed to manage the risk of not achieving business reporting on the risk management approach and progress
objectives. to the ROCC and the Committee every year. The ROCC and
the RMCBs are assisted by GEC, which is responsible for
A fit for purpose Framework, in conjunction with our corporate
advancing risk management across the enterprise and for the
values, expectations and ‘Speak Up’ processes, ensures that
development of working practices that are risk-based and
the risks associated with our business activities are actively
ethically sound. GEC actively promotes ethical behaviours
and effectively controlled in line with the agreed risk appetite.
through enabling all members of the organisation to operate
We believe the Framework provides reasonable, but not
in accordance with our values, and to comply with applicable
absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
laws and regulations.
A&A, in line with an agreed assurance plan, provides
The Framework
independent assurance to senior management and the Board
Enterprise oversight
on the effectiveness of risk management across the Group.
Independent assurance This assurance helps senior management and the Board to
meet their oversight and advisory responsibilities in fulfilling the
Independent business monitoring G othro eu
r
p s’ ts
a
s kt er ha ote ldg eic
r
so
.
b Aje &c Ati v he as
s
a an dd
u
b au
l
i rl ed pin og
r
tt ir nu gs t
li
nw ei t ih
n
tp oa tt hie en Cts
F
a Ond
Disc i Ep nl fi on rce ea mn ed nt
B
R
A
ui ss ssk
e is nsm een st
s
& W Cori ntt te ron
ls
Standards
a
T p
r
pin
sh r roi
kd
e n
v
c
tt
C
io
dh
ip
eoe
ta
h
m
alC
e
r nm
io
Gs
aim
kt srt
oem
o sue w
eit
p
srt ne
e se
ae
c
mnr.
e s
d
e,i v nG oe
tn
s E
o
r
nCr ee
t
lg aa hu tn eel d a
d
in
r A tir
n
ee &
t
rp
e
nA ro
a
nor
l
at n cs
l
o
a cf nr r oo e
tn
rm a ots
r
l
ob eo lu
s
nfs
.
vs i iTn rig ohe n nes i mss fi
e
c eu a
r
nn en tit
p
ts
o
,
rts
o t P
ro
blemeR ssp
o
n ding
Activities Training w
s ot
fi
r
t teh hni en
g
s
te eha
e
rc enh
p
tp
oh
reri
t
n scc
,o
i tp
n
ha
t
erl
o
Cr li s oek
n
m
va mir re
o
ita
n
te,
m
i en
e
c cnl ou
t.
nd
F
cin
o
lug
ll do
e ewn sih
n
oa
g
nn tc
th
he
e
em
c
ee
o
fn
fn
et ss
ci d
tt io
ve era nt eio sn
s
MoM na in toa rg ine gment
Communication
o anf nth ue a li ln yt . e Inrn aa cl cc oo rn dtr ao nl c e en v wir ito hn tm he e n Ft Ra Cnd ’s r 2ep 0o 18rt s C t oo d th ee p B roo va isr id o ns,
the Board, through the authority delegated to the Committee,
has conducted a robust assessment of the Group’s principal
risks. This includes the consideration of the nature and extent
of risk it is willing to take in achieving the Group’s strategic
GSK values and
expectations
objectives. The Board, through the Committee, has maintained
oversight to ensure the effectiveness of the internal control
environment and risk management processes in operation
across the Group for the whole year, and up to the date of
the approval of this Annual Report.
GSK Annual Report 2019 105Internal control framework continued
The Board’s review focuses on the company and its subsidiaries A review of the Group’s risk management approach is further
and does not extend to material associated undertakings, joint discussed in the ‘Risk management’ section of the Strategic
ventures or other investments, although it considers the risk of report on pages 43 to 46. Our management of each principal
the company’s participation in these activities. There are risk is explained in ‘Principal risks and uncertainties’ on pages
established procedures and controls in place to identify entities 275 to 287. The Group’s viability is discussed in the Group
whose results must be consolidated with the Group’s results. financial review section of the Strategic report on page 47.
We believe the process followed by the Board, through the
Committee, in reviewing regularly the system of internal controls
and risk management processes is in accordance with the
Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related
Financial and Business Reporting issued by the FRC.
Governance structure of risk management
106 GSK Annual Report 2019
gnirotinom
rof
ytilibatnuoccA
Responsibility
for
implementing
Audit, risk and internal control continued
Board of Directors – Responsible for our system of corporate
governance, strategy, risk management
and financial performance
– Responsible for reviewing and approving
Audit & Risk Committee
the adequacy and effectiveness of our risk
management and internal controls
Corporate Executive Team – Supports the CEO in managing the
business and activities
– Authorised by the Board to assist the Audit
Risk Oversight and & Risk Committee in overseeing the risk
Compliance Council
management and internal control activities
of the Group
– Responsible for our system of corporate
Business units
governance, strategy, risk management
and financial performance
– Ensures that appropriate internal controls are
Risk Management and
implemented for effective risk management
Compliance Boards
– Complemented by Country Executive Risk
Boards to ensure a consistent approach
to risk management across local territoriesStrategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Science Committee report
I am pleased to present my third report as Chair of the Science
Dr Jesse Goodman Committee (the Committee).
Science Committee Chair
During 2019, the Committee has worked to support the
Board and Dr Barron, our CSO, in considering our science,
Role
technology and culture as part of the new R&D strategy.
The Committee:
The Committee operated to a programme of activities to help
– undertakes periodic reviews of R&D strategy and
discharge its responsibilities. Items considered included:
progress
– regular updates on our Pharmaceuticals’ and Vaccines’
– assesses the overall performance, including relevant
assets;
financial metrics, effectiveness and competitiveness
of R&D – regular updates on the R&D strategy;
– helps identify critical emerging trends in science and – scientific and technical review of Business deals to
medicine and their potential impact on the company; strengthen our pipeline;
– undertakes periodic reviews of the company’s scientific – oversight of R&D pipeline milestones (including project
capability and talent portfolio governance gates) and progress on R&D goals; and
– reviews the scientific opportunity in specific large scale – progress on R&D’s culture and talent.
investments or business transactions, and Pharmaceuticals R&D
– reviews the output of the Group’s science advisory The Committee was pleased to observe Pharma R&D’s
boards. significant progress in strengthening the pipeline through a
focus on the science related to the immune system, the use
Membership
of human genetics, and other advanced technologies, while
Committee members Committee member since creating a culture that fosters an innovative mindset. A new
Dr Jesse Goodman – 1 January 2017 governance model was embedded that centralised key
Chair from 1 January 2017
functional capabilities. Changes included a refocus on a
Dr Laurie Glimcher 1 September 2017 smaller number of promising projects and the move away from
Judy Lewent 1 January 2017 the Discovery Performance Unit model to three large research
Details of the Committee members’ skills and experience are given units focusing on our priority areas of immunology and genetics.
in their biographies under ‘Our Board’ on pages 79 to 81. See The pipeline continues to evolve with 14 assets progressing or
page 90 for Committee member attendance levels.
being added, 8 terminations and 3 medicines being approved
The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee in 2019, resulting in 39 medicines currently being developed.
and attends all meetings. Other attendees at Committee R&D continues to attract talented individuals to work in and with
meetings may include: R&D to help deliver our new approach of Science x Technology
x Culture.
Regular Attends as
Attendee attendee required Vaccines R&D
Company Chairman ✓ The Committee oversaw significant changes to Vaccines’
Chief Executive Officer ✓ R&D strategy to secure growth from our existing portfolio and
Chief Scientific Officer and President, R&D ✓ to unlock new and emerging vaccines fields. One of these key
President, Global Vaccines ✓ changes has been the creation of an integrated Development
Independent senior external scientific adviser(s) ✓ organisation.
Chief Financial Officer ✓
To further develop and maintain a greater insight and
Other company executives ✓
understanding of our Vaccines business, I was pleased to
visit Wavre in Belgium and Rockville in Washington. During
both visits I enjoyed meeting with employees and members
of R&D who brought to life the impressive scientific activities
being undertaken within Vaccines.
GSK Annual Report 2019 107Science Committee report continued
Collaborative approach Committee evaluation
The Committee was pleased to review from a scientific The Committee’s annual evaluation was externally facilitated by
perspective new key collaborations with strategic partners No 4, who interviewed Committee members on my behalf. It
which will help enable GSK to strengthen its pipeline and was concluded that the Committee continued to develop well.
gain real advantages for patients and the company. These
Given the critical importance of strengthening the pipeline, the
collaborations will enable us to obtain competitive advantage,
Committee will focus on science at a deeper level to support
by adding pipeline optionality and enable us to gain access
further the Board’s understanding and provide reassurance and
to key technologies. These have included:
guidance. Going forward, the Committee will have three broad
Lyell Immunopharma: GSK entered a five-year collaboration objectives:
to develop new technologies to improve cell therapies for
– that the key scientific assumptions in the company’s strategy
cancer patients. The collaboration will apply Lyell’s technologies
remain valid;
to further strengthen and complement our cell therapy pipeline.
– technical assurance; and
The University of California: establishing a state-of-the-art
laboratory for CRISPR technologies, the Laboratory for – risk oversight of our research practices and patient safety
Genomics Research. This new laboratory will explore how gene enterprise risks.
mutations cause disease and develop new technologies using I look forward to reporting further progress next year.
CRISPR to rapidly accelerate the discovery of new medicines.
The collaboration will build on GSK’s existing collaborations
with companies such as 23andMe, which are able to deliver
Dr Jesse Goodman
genetic information at scale, improving the probability of R&D
Science Committee Chair
success.
3 March 2020
Positive outlook/R&D priority assets & Forward strategy
In addition, the Committee was pleased to note a number
of positive developments during the year, which underscore
moves towards a promising future outlook for R&D. These
have included:
– In 2019 the R&D pipeline achieved 3 major approvals, made
8 submissions, had 6 positive read-outs from pivotal studies
and progressed 4 new assets into pivotal studies.
– The pivotal study read-outs included positive data on our
key late-stage oncology therapies – Zejula for women with
ovarian cancer, belantamab mafodotin for patients with
multiple myeloma and dostarlimab for patients with
endometrial cancer.
– The National Medical Products Administration approved
the Shingrix vaccine for use in China.
– A large-scale pilot implementation of RTS,S/AS01 Mosquirix,
the malaria vaccine in Malawi, Ghana and Kenya.
108 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Corporate Responsibility Committee report
As Chair of the Corporate Responsibility Committee (the
Lynn Elsenhans Committee) I am pleased to present the Committee’s 2019
Corporate Responsibility Committee Chair report.
The Committee forms an important part of the Board’s oversight
Role of the company’s Trust priority, ensuring the CET is working
to deliver long-term value for both shareholders and society.
The Committee:
The Committee has a rolling agenda and receives reports from
– reviews issues that have the potential for serious
CET members and senior managers to ensure that actions and
impact upon GSK’s business and reputation
progress on the company’s commitments are reviewed on a
– has oversight of the views and interests of internal regular basis. This includes monitoring how the company works
and external stakeholders to engage effectively with a broad range of stakeholders and
– considers GSK’s Trust priority and annual governance responds to the high external expectations of GSK as a global
oversight of progress against GSK’s Trust commitments healthcare company.
which reflect the most important issues for responsible Areas of focus in 2019
and sustainable business growth. The Committee has again focused its time on areas that are
Membership material to our stakeholders and long-term business success.
This year, the work of the Committee included scrutiny on
The membership of the Committee and appointment
progress against commitments to support the company’s
dates are set out below:
Trust priority that are set in the context of external trends
Committee members Committee member since and stakeholder expectations. The Committee has reviewed
Lynn Elsenhans – 1 October 2012 and approved the company’s reporting on progress on
Chair from 8 May 2015
commitments, which are set out in the Trust section on
Dr Vivienne Cox 1 July 2016
pages 30 to 42.
Dr Jesse Goodman 1 May 2016
During the year management presented to the Committee
Details of the Committee members’ skills and experience are on a number of topics across the breadth of the Trust priority:
given in their biographies under ‘Our Board’ on pages 79 to 81.
See page 90 for Committee member attendance levels. Science and technology for global health: The Committee
The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee reviewed areas of most significant progress against the
and attends all meetings. Other attendees at Committee company’s new global health strategy, which is led by science
meetings may include: and emphasises the importance of sustainable funding models.
The Committee discussed sustaining the momentum of the
Regular Attends as good early progress made to ensure the best outcomes for
Attendee attendee required
patients and the company, while acknowledging the commercial
Company Chairman ✓
and business benefits of investment in this area.
Chief Executive Officer ✓
Chief Scientific Officer and President, R&D ✓ Affordability and availability: During the year we continued
General Counsel ✓ to focus on access and affordability, and the company’s
President, Global Affairs ✓ commitment to making our products available at prices that
President, Pharma Supply Chain ✓ are responsible and sustainable for the business. We reviewed
President, Global Pharmaceuticals ✓ the global pricing strategies of the Pharmaceuticals business
President, Global Vaccines ✓ with a particular focus on the US environment as the company’s
CEO, GSK Consumer Healthcare ✓ largest single market, and where the operating context
SVP, Human Resources ✓ continues to evolve.
SVP, Corporate Affairs ✓ Modern employer: The Committee reviewed progress of the
VP, Trust and Global Health ✓ company’s commitments to be a Modern employer which centre
Other Executives ✓ on engaged people, inclusion and diversity, health, wellbeing
and development. The Committee discussed good progress on
gender and LGBT targets, use of the Employee Assistance
Programme and the robust deployment of the One80 manager
assessment tool, to identify issues and help further improve line
management’s performance.
GSK Annual Report 2019 109Corporate Responsibility Committee report continued
Responsible business: The Committee reviewed the progress Committee evaluation
made on GSK’s commitments to the fundamentals of being The Committee’s annual evaluation was externally facilitated
a responsible business. This included oversight of our ethics by No 4, who interviewed Committee members on my behalf.
and values, the responsible use of data and scientific It was concluded that the Committee continued to operate
engagement. We also reviewed progress on measures to effectively.
reduce our environmental impact by one quarter by 2030,
Given the increasing importance of ESG factors, more will
and emerging environmental risks including plastics usage.
need to be done in this regard in the coming years and the
The Committee discussed the assessment of the company’s
Committee was pleased to have the Board’s support to
plastics footprint and plans to reduce use where possible.
progress further its work in this area, in particular in respect
Stakeholder engagement and insights of environmental sustainability.
The Committee pays close attention to the evolving views and
Committee aims for 2020
expectations of the company’s broad range of key stakeholders.
Over the next year we will continue to scrutinise and monitor
A regular report on stakeholder insights is reviewed and
GSK’s material Trust topics, including one of management’s
discussed at each meeting to ensure the Committee considers
key priorities to continue building and protecting the company’s
the issues that may have a bearing on the company’s reputation
reputation, with a strong focus on innovation. The Committee
and the delivery of its responsible business agenda. The
considers that the company is well positioned in 2020 to
Committee also received an update on GSK’s reputation
support the continuing delivery of our Trust priority.
research to understand relevant insights for its strategy.
Employee insights were discussed in relation to the company’s
Lynn Elsenhans
Modern employer agenda and the results of the employee
Corporate Responsibility Committee Chair
survey.
3 March 2020
This year we have continued to enjoy positive engagement
with investors on our approach to Performance and Trust.
Work of the Committee during 2019
I meet directly with shareholders to understand any issues and
concerns they may have and other Committee members also Area of responsibility Items addressed during 2019
External issues that have the – Health and safety update
meet informally with shareholders before and after the Annual
potential for serious impact upon
General Meeting. The Committee also reviewed a perception – Regular reputational and emerging
GSK’s business and reputation
study with investors interested in the ESG aspects of our issues update
activities, to better understand the rising interest of investors in – Oversight of corporate reputation
this area and what matters to them. The Committee discussed research and KPI
the perceptions of our strengths in this area, including the – HCP engagement and SFI changes
management of ESG risks and opportunities, that these are implementation
well integrated into our strategy; that the quality of our ESG
Oversight of stakeholder views – Stakeholder insights update
disclosures is strong. The Committee noted investors desire to and engagement – ESG investor insights
see sustained delivery of our Trust commitments and increased
– Employee survey
reporting aligned to the Sustainability Accounting Standards
– Shareholder meetings
Board (SASB) and the Taskforce on Climate-related Financial
Disclosures (TCFD). The Company has included SASB
Annual governance oversight – Approval of the Trust section of the
disclosures in the 2019 ESG Performance Summary available of progress against GSK’s Annual Report
online, and our first voluntary TCFD disclosure is given on responsible business
– Oversight of progress against
page 46. commitments to support Trust commitments
I have highlighted to our Remuneration Committee Chair the – Global health strategy
emerging importance of establishing a link between ESG – Sustainable access and affordability
performance and our remuneration outcomes for Executive
– Business conduct
Directors and the CET.
– Responsible use of data
Finally, the Committee was very pleased to see the company
– Modern employer, engagement
perform well in two key external benchmarks, securing first and culture
position in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for the
– Environmental targets
pharmaceutical industry in 2019, and continuing to hold
first position in the Access to Medicine Index since 2008.
Key
HCP Healthcare Professional
SFI Sales Force Incentives
ESG Enviromental, Social and Governance
110 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Section 172 statement
This statement aligns to the section 172 statement requirements Engagement with the company’s main stakeholder groups,
contained in Section 414CZA of the Companies Act 2006 including our patients, shareholders, consumers, customers
(the Act). and employees, at all levels of the organisation and across the
enterprise are summarised on pages 15 and 16 of our Strategic
This statement focuses on how the Directors have had regard
report.
during the year to the matters set out in Section 172(1) (a) to (f)
of the Act when performing their duties by incorporating The governance architecture and processes that the company
information from other areas of the Annual Report to avoid operated to ensure that all relevant matters are considered by
unnecessary duplication. The Board considers that the the Board in its principal decision-making, as a means
statement focuses on those risks and opportunities that were of contributing to the delivery of GSK’s long-term priorities of
of strategic importance to GSK consistent with the size and Innovation, Performance and Trust, are summarised on pages
complexity of the Group. 84 to 88 of our Corporate Governance report.
In the performance of its duty to promote the success of the The table below identifies where in the Annual Report
company, the Board has regard to a number of matters, information on those issues, factors and the stakeholders the
including listening to and considering the views of shareholders Board has considered relevant for disclosure in complying with
and the company’s other key stakeholders to build trust and Section 172 (1) (a) (f) of the Act are set out in more detail, given
ensure it fully understands the potential impacts of the decisions their strategic importance to GSK.
it makes for our stakeholders, the environment and the
communities in which we operate.
The Board has had regard to the following matters: More information:
(a) Long-term results Strategic report:
– the likely consequences of any decision in the long term Our business model (page 1)
Chairman’s statement (page 3)
CEO’s statement (page 4)
Capital allocation (page 2)
Our long-term priorities (page 9)
Key performance indicators (page 11)
Risk management (page 43)
Viability statement (page 47)
Corporate Governance report:
Responsible leadership (page 84)
Audit & Risk Committee report (page 96)
(b) Our workforce Strategic report:
– the interests of the Group’s employees Our business model (page 1)
Our Culture (page 10)
Modern employer (page 35)
Stakeholder engagement (page15)
Corporate Governance report:
Responsible leadership (page 84)
Workforce engagement (page 86)
Nominations Committee report (page 92)
Audit & Risk Committee report (page 96)
Remuneration report:
Remuneration Committee Chair’s statement (page 116)
GSK.com:
Gender pay gap report
GSK Annual Report 2019 111Section 172 statement continued
The Board has had regard to the following matters: More information:
(c) Our business relationships Strategic report:
– the importance of developing the Group’s business Our business model (page 1)
relationships with suppliers, customers and others Industry trends (page 12)
Stakeholder engagement (page 15)
Performance: Pharma (page 22), Vaccines (page 26) and Consumer (page 28)
Reliable supply (page 37)
Working with third parties (page 39)
Risk management (page 43)
Corporate Governance report:
Responsible leadership (page 84)
Principal decisions (page 87)
Audit & Risk Committee report (page 96)
Corporate Responsibility Committee report (page 109)
(d) The community and our environment Strategic report:
– the impact of the Group’s operations on the Trust section including:
community and the environment Environment (page 41)
EHSS risk (pages 45 and 285)
Climate-related financial disclosure (page 46)
Corporate Governance report:
Corporate Responsibility Committee report (page 109)
GSK.com:
Responsibility reports and data
(e) Our reputation Strategic report:
– our desire to maintain our reputation for high Our Culture (page 10)
standards of business conduct Trust (page 30)
Ethics and values (page 37)
Human rights (page 38)
Reporting and investigating concerns (page 38)
Anti-bribery and corruption (page 44)
Non-financial statement (page 48)
Our approach to tax (page 53)
Corporate Governance report:
Corporate Responsibility Committee report (page 109)
GSK.com:
Modern Slavery statement
(f) Fairness between our shareholders Corporate Governance report:
– our aim to act fairly as between members of the Shareholder engagement (page 85)
company
Investor information (page 258)
112 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Directors
Our Directors’ powers are determined by UK legislation and The Nominations Committee reviewed the register of potential
our Articles of Association, which contain rules about the conflict authorisations (the Register of Conflicts) in January
appointment and replacement of Directors. They provide that 2020 and reported to the Board that the conflicts had been
Directors may be appointed by an ordinary resolution of the appropriately authorised and that the process for authorisation
members or by a resolution of the Board, provided that, if continued to operate effectively and recommended the approval
appointed by the Board, the Director retires at the next of the Register of Conflicts to the Board which it subsequently
Annual General Meeting following their appointment. approved. Except as described in Note 35 to the financial
statements, ‘Related party transactions’, during or at the end
Our Articles also provide that all Directors are required to
of the financial year no Director or Person Closely Associated
seek re-election annually at the Annual General Meeting in
had any material interest in any contract of significance with
accordance with the 2018 Code.
a Group company.
A Director will cease to be a Director if he or she:
Our Articles prohibit a Director from voting on any resolution
– becomes bankrupt concerning his or her appointment or the terms or termination
– ceases to be a Director by virtue of the Companies Act or of his or her appointment.
the Articles Independent advice
– suffers mental or physical ill health and the Board resolves The company has an agreed procedure for Directors to take
that he or she shall cease to be a Director independent legal and/or financial advice at the company’s
expense where they deem it necessary.
– has missed Directors’ meetings for a continuous period
Indemnification of Directors
of six months without permission and the Board resolves
Qualifying third party indemnity provisions (as defined in the
that he or she shall cease to be a Director
Companies Act 2006) are in force for the benefit of Directors
– is prohibited from being a Director by law and former Directors who held office during 2019 and up to
– resigns, or offers to resign and the Board accepts that offer the approval and signature of the Annual Report.
– is required to resign by the Board. Change of control and essential contracts
We do not have contracts or other arrangements which
Directors’ conflicts of interest
individually are fundamental to the ability of the business to
All Directors have a duty under the Companies Act 2006
operate effectively. Neither is the company party to any material
to avoid a situation in which they have, or could have, a direct
agreements that would take effect, be altered, or terminate upon
or indirect conflict of interest or possible conflict with the
a change of control following a takeover bid. We do not have
company. Our Articles provide a general power for the Board
agreements with any Director that would provide compensation
to authorise such conflicts.
for loss of office or employment resulting from a takeover,
The Board reviews any new potential or actual conflict, which is except that provisions of the company’s share plans may
recorded by the Company Secretary. Directors are not counted cause options and awards granted under such plans to vest
in the quorum for the authorisation of their own actual or on a takeover.
potential conflicts. The Nominations Committee reviews the
Details of the termination provisions in the Executive Directors’
Register of Conflicts on an annual basis which the Board
service contracts are given in the full version of the company’s
subsequently approves.
2017 Remuneration policy which is available at www.gsk.com in
On a continuing basis, the Directors are responsible for the Investors section. These will be updated with the new 2020
informing the Company Secretary of any such new actual or Remuneration policy (set out on pages 140 to 150 of this
potential conflicts that may arise or if there are any changes Annual Report) provided it is approved by shareholders at the
in circumstances that may affect an authorisation previously company’s Annual General Meeting.
given. Even when provided with authorisation, a Director is not
absolved from his or her statutory duty to promote the success
of the company. If an actual conflict arises post-authorisation,
the Board may choose to exclude the Director from receipt
of the relevant information and participation in the debate,
or suspend the Director from the Board, or, as a last resort,
require the Director to resign.
GSK Annual Report 2019 113Directors continued
Content of the Directors’ Report The following information is also incorporated into the Directors’
For the purposes of the UK Companies Act 2006, the Report:
Directors’ Report of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year ended
Location in Annual Report
31 December 2019 comprises:
Interest capitalised Financial statements,
Directors’ Report Notes 17 and 20
Section Pages Publication of unaudited financial information Group financial review, page 49
Corporate Governance report 75 to 114 Details of any long-term incentive schemes Remuneration report
Employee engagement 86 Waiver of emoluments by a Director Not applicable
Directors’ statements of responsibilities 152 to 153 Waiver of future emoluments by a Director Not applicable
Investor information 257 to 311 Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash Not applicable
Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash Not applicable
The Strategic report sets out those matters required to be
by any unlisted major subsidiary undertaking
disclosed in the Directors’ Report which are considered to
Parent company participation in a placing Not applicable
be of strategic importance: by a listed subsidiary
Strategic report Provision of services by a controlling Not applicable
shareholder
Section Pages
Shareholder waiver of dividends Financial statements,
Risk management objectives and policies 43 to 48
Notes 16 and 44
and 275
to 287 Shareholder waiver of future dividends Financial statements,
Notes 16 and 44
Likely future developments of the company 01 to 74
Agreements with controlling shareholders Not applicable
Research and development activities 17 to 29
Business relationships 39 The Directors’ Report
Diversity 35
– has been drawn up and presented in accordance with and in
Provision of information to and consultations with employees 35
reliance upon English company law and the liabilities of the
Carbon emissions 41
Directors in connection with that Report shall be subject to
Section 172 statement 15 and
the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
111 to 112
– was approved by the Board of Directors on 3 March 2020
and signed on its behalf by:
Sir Jonathan Symonds
Chairman
3 March 2020
114 GSK Annual Report 2019SSttrraatteeggiicc rreeppoorrtt
GGoovveerrnnaannccee aanndd rreemmuunneerraattiioonn
FFiinnaanncciiaall ssttaatteemmeennttss
IInnvveessttoorr iinnffoorrmmaattiioonn
Remuneration
In this section
Chairman’s annual statement 116
Annual report on remuneration 119
2020 Remuneration policy summary 140
2020 Remuneration policy report 141
GGSSKK AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22001199 111155Remuneration report
Chairman’s annual statement
On behalf of the Remuneration Committee (the Committee), The proposed new policy has been considered and developed
I am pleased to present our Remuneration report for 2019. in the context of the Committee’s oversight of wider workforce
This includes my annual statement, our Annual report on pay. I met with HR business leads to exchange views on how
remuneration, and our updated 2020 Remuneration policy our executive remuneration arrangements align to the Group’s
report setting out proposed changes to our remuneration policy. wider pay policy arrangements (this engagement is described
on page 88). I was pleased with the insights generated by this
2019 performance
engagement, which we will continue to develop in the coming
As set out elsewhere in this Report, in 2019 GSK made
years to ensure alignment of our pay policy practices.
significant progress across all three of our IPT priorities.
In addition, based on external benchmark data and internal
On Innovation, we strengthened our pipeline, focusing and
projections, the Committee was able to satisfy itself that the
increasing our investment in R&D, with exciting new
company’s remuneration arrangements remain appropriate.
developments in Oncology and a significant number of positive
Given the Committee’s view that the design of the existing policy
results across the portfolio.
is working effectively no major structural changes are proposed,
On Performance, we delivered growth in sales and earnings, as especially to avoid distraction in preparing for the separation of
well as achieving strong cash generation and improvements in the Group. However, certain amendments are included to ensure
operational execution as we prepare for separation of the Group. the policy and its implementation remain fit for purpose.
On Trust, we continued to make good progress with innovations After concluding on the necessary changes, I engaged with
in Global Health in TB, Malaria and HIV and we ranked top of the our major shareholders on behalf of the Committee on these.
Pharmaceuticals sector of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index. The feedback received from shareholders was greatly valued
2019 remuneration outcomes and carefully considered before the Committee decided how to
All awards in relation to 2019 were made in accordance with proceed in finalising the proposed new policy. The key changes
our approved Remuneration policy. The key decisions made are outlined below:
by the Committee were as follows: Pensions
– Annual bonus outcomes were determined by reference – Alignment of new Executive Directors’ pension
to performance against the agreed financial measure, contributions with the wider workforce: The Committee has
and the Committee’s assessment of the Executive Directors’ considered the levels of pension for Directors in the context
individual levels of performance. This has resulted in a bonus of the requirements of the FRC’s 2018 Code, feedback from
payment being made above target. The Committee believes investors, guidance from the Investment Association,
the bonus outcomes appropriately reflect the overall emerging market practice and the company’s existing pension
underlying performance in 2019. arrangements for the wider workforce. The new policy for
future Executive Directors appointed in the UK or US is to
– Vesting of LTI awards was based on the pre-agreed equally
provide a pension aligned with the opportunity available to the
weighted measures of: R&D new product performance,
broader employee population in their location. See page 142.
adjusted free cash flow; and relative TSR over the three
years. This resulted in an overall vesting level of 66.66%. – Alignment of current UK Executive Directors’ pension
See page 124. contributions with the wider workforce: The Committee
will reduce pension provisions for current UK based Executive
When the Committee determined the bonus and LTI outcomes,
Directors to align with the wider UK workforce levels from
which included a full assessment of performance across all of
January 2023.
the relevant measures, it did not exercise any discretion as part
of its determination. The Committee has determined to maintain the current
pension contribution for Dr Hal Barron, our CSO, who is
Review of Remuneration policy
based in the US. This recognises the contractual commitment
During 2019, the Committee reviewed the Remuneration
on his appointment, his exceptional talent and the critical
policy with the objective of maintaining alignment with our
importance of making continued progress in R&D to the
IPT priorities, the shift in our culture, investor sentiment and
Group’s prospects over the coming years. It also recognises
emerging market practice.
the strong competitive dynamics in the market in which he
At the outset of its review, the Committee was careful to ensure operates.
that the existing policy reflected the factors set out in Provision
Extension of post employment cessation share
40 of the FRC’s 2018 Code and that it applied these consistently
ownership requirement:
as it developed the proposed new policy. Examples of how these
GSK’s current share ownership requirement (SOR) mandates that
factors have been addressed in the new policy include:
Executive Directors must retain their shareholding for one-year
– continuing to simplify pay arrangements by removing the 20
post employment cessation. This will be extended to require 50%
years’ service condition for termination by mutual agreement
of the SOR to be held for the second year post cessation of
from our loss of office policy; and
employment. GSK operates significant SORs. The CEO would
– maintaining a proportionate approach by reducing the CEO’s therefore be required to hold 650% of salary for the first year
maximum LTI award level from 650% to 600% of base salary. following cessation and 325% of salary for the second year.
116 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Reduction of maximum LTI award level: CEO Remuneration
The Committee is very aware of the sensitivity amongst The Committee initially set Emma Walmsley’s pay as CEO
stakeholders to levels of executive pay. In light of this, and given below the previous incumbent, and the market, to reflect that
that the Committee has no intention of using the headroom she was new in role and this was also her first CEO position.
currently available, we will reduce the maximum award level
Since 2017 under Emma Walmsley’s leadership, strong
permitted under the new policy for the CEO’s LTI awards from
progress has been made across GSK’s strategic priorities of
650% to 600% of base salary. It is proposed that the LTI
IPT, supported by a shift in the company’s culture. The new R&D
continues to be granted below this maximum opportunity,
strategy is delivering significant progress and our technology
although it is proposed to increase the LTI award level for Emma
and pipeline have been strengthened by targeted business
Walmsley in the implementation of the new policy for 2020, as
development. As a result, the company is delivering strong
set out below.
financial and operating performance with 2019 sales growth
Other changes: across all three businesses, growth in Total and Adjusted
– Broadening of Malus and Clawback provisions: Consistent earnings per share, and growth in free cash flow since 2017,
with common practice in the FTSE 100, we are proposing to despite the genericisation of Advair in the US.
extend the scope of triggering events under the existing
Implementation of the second step of the planned salary
Executive financial recoupment policy. See page 140.
increase for Emma Walmsley: To reflect her performance in
– Update of termination policy: We are not proposing any role the Committee agreed, following engagement with
significant changes to our loss of office payment policy. shareholders, to progress her pay levels by implementing a
However, to manage succession proactively, it is proposed two-step salary increase in 2019 and 2020. As disclosed in last
that the 20-year service condition be removed from the year’s Annual Report, the second salary increase would only be
termination by mutual agreement policy, to bring the new awarded subject to her continued development and sustained
policy in line with the market standard. performance.
Full details of the proposed changes to the policy are set on The Committee has considered Emma Walmsley’s performance
pages 140 to 146. and, in light of her continued progress in developing and
Remuneration policy implementation for 2020 executing the business strategy and the delivery of financial
New PSP performance measure: performance, a second salary increase of 8% has been awarded
We have previously indicated to shareholders our intention to from 1 January 2020 resulting in a base salary of £1,199,176.
introduce a measure to recognise the importance of accelerating Setting LTI award level at 575% of salary: We are also
and strengthening our pipeline, reflecting our Innovation priority. increasing Emma Walmsley’s annual LTI award level to 575%
This has particular importance in anticipation of our separation. of salary (from 550%) to recognise her development, strong
We are therefore introducing a strategic ‘Pipeline progress’ performance, and the competitive landscape in which GSK
measure. It is targeted to reward the progress in strengthening operates. The increase to her LTI award remains below the
our R&D pipeline with high quality assets and in achieving new reduced maximum under the proposed new policy.
approvals in major markets for key assets or indications.
The Committee has considered the high regard in which she
The focus of the metric will be on the achievement of material
is held by virtue of her performance and has considered her
milestones.
competitive positioning against peers. Making this adjustment to
The new performance measure weightings for the 2020 LTI LTI awards enables Emma Walmsley’s total compensation to be
awards are: positioned at broadly market median levels, but only on delivery
– Relative TSR – 30% of strong long-term performance.
– Adjusted free cash flow – 30%
Board changes
– Innovation sales – 20% As announced in August 2018, Iain Mackay joined the Board
– Pipeline progress – 20% and CET on 14 January 2019 and succeeded Simon Dingemans
Therefore, in future, 60% of our LTI measures would reward the as Chief Financial Officer from 1 April 2019. Simon retired from
Executive Directors for delivering immediate value outcomes to the company following the AGM on 8 May 2019. Details of
shareholders based on the company’s performance, with the their joining and leaving arrangements were described in last
remaining 40% incentivising Innovation and commercialisation year’s report.
of new assets. AGM
Introduction of a European benchmark peer group: Finally, I would like to thank shareholders for their input and
The Committee is replacing the existing UK-cross industry peer engagement during this Remuneration policy review and I
group with a new European peer group. This reflects feedback welcome all shareholders’ feedback on this report. We look
from some of our shareholders that the UK peer group was forward to receiving your support for the proposed new
becoming too narrow. This change results in a group which is Remuneration policy and Annual report on remuneration
more reflective of the nature of GSK’s business. The at our Annual General Meeting on 6 May 2020.
methodology to select the new group is based on selecting
companies within a range of GSK’s market capitalisation in both Urs Rohner
the FTSE 50 and STOXX 600 and then excluding companies Remuneration Committee Chairman
that operate in financial services, extraction or utilities industries. 3 March 2020
GSK Annual Report 2019 117At a glance
2019 Total Remuneration
The following shows a breakdown of total remuneration paid to Executive Directors in office at 31 December 2019, in respect
of 2019 and 2018.
Emma Walmsley Iain Mackay(1) Dr Hal Barron
£8m US$10m
82%
US$8m
£6m
75% 46%
US$6m 42% 46%
£4m
US$4m
58% 54%
£2m 51%
US$2m
18% 25%
49%
£0m US$0m
2019 2018 2019 2019 2018
(1) I ain Mackay joined the Board on 14 January 2019.
His remuneration is shown from this date.
Fixed pay – salary, benefits and pension
Performance pay – annual bonus and LTIs earned in respect of the three year performance period
Pay for performance
2019 Annual bonus: financial performance 2017 LTI outcome: performance period ended 31 December 2019
Overall vesting 66.66%
Maximum
(105% of target)
Relative R&D new
102% [•]%
Target TSR product
33.33%
Threshold
(95% of target)
Adjusted Group PBIT
33.33%
Performance achieved Vested Adjusted
Maximum performance target Lapsed free cash flow
Proposed Executive remuneration policy and implementation for 2020 – Key changes(1)
Policy
Alignment of pensions with the wider – New UK and US Executive Directors’ pension contribution levels to be aligned with wider workforce
workforce
– Current UK Executive Directors’ pension contribution levels to be aligned with wider workforce from
January 2023
Extension to post employment – 50% of share ownership requirements for Executive Directors to be held for second year post cessation
cessation SOR of employment
LTI opportunity maximum reduced – CEO award maximum reduced from 650% to 600% of base salary
Implementation
Greater alignment of LTI measures – Greater alignment with Innovation business priority
with IPT business priorities
– Introduction of Pipeline progress performance measure
– Innovation measures comprise 40% and Performance measures 60%
CEO remuneration – Implementation of second step of planned salary increase of 8% (effective 1 January 2020)
– Increase in the CEO’s LTI award level from 550% to 575% of base salary following her continued
development and sustained performance.
(1) S ee page 148 for the proposed Non-Executive Directors’ Remuneration policy.
118 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Annual report on remuneration
2019 Total remuneration (audited)
Fixed pay Pay for performance
Annual bonus Vested LTI Awards
– Maximum opportunity: – Vesting at 66.66%
200% – Measures:
Salary – Measures: R&D new product
70% adjusted Group PBIT AFCF
Total
Benefits 30% Personal objectives Relative TSR
remuneration
– Two year deferral of 50% – Plans:
could b
Pension into GSK shares Last DABP matching awards
2017 PSP awards
Read more on pages Read more on pages Read more on page 124 Read more below
120 and 121 122 and 123
2019 Total remuneration (audited)
Emma Walmsley Iain Mackay Dr Hal Barron Simon Dingemans
(from 14 January 2019) (to 8 May 2019)
2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018
£000 £000 £000 £000 $000 $000 £000 £000
Fixed pay
Salary 1,110 1,028 825 – 1,743 1,700 275 773
Benefits 192 234 139 – 659 807 92 141
Pension 230 207 171 – 1,259 1,043 55 155
Total fixed pay 1,532 1,469 1,135 – 3,661 3,550 422 1,069
Pay for performance
Annual bonus(1) 1,754 1,912 1,185 – 2,675 3,009 – 1,368
Vesting of LTI awards:
DABP matching awards(2) 412 301 – – – – – 398
PSP(3) 4,671 2,205 – – – – – 2,367
Total pay for performance(4) 6,837 4,418 1,185 – 2,675 3,009 – 4,133
Total remuneration 8,369 5,887 2,320 – 6,336 6,559 422 5,202
Notes:
(1) Details of the mandatory bonus deferrals in 2019 and 2020 under the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan (DABP) are set out on page 137. Matching awards ceased from 2018 and are
no longer granted under the DABP.
(2) DABP matching awards vested in February 2020 and have been valued based on the share price at vesting (£16.616). Of the vested amount, £18,017 relates to share price
appreciation over the performance period. The Committee did not exercise any discretion in relation to the vesting of the awards or share price changes.
(3) Ms Walmsley’s 2017 PSP will vest in July 2020 and has been valued based on the average share price during the three-month period to 31 December 2019 (£17.28). Of the vested
amount, £434,472 relates to share price appreciation over the performance period. The Committee did not exercise any discretion in relation to the vesting of the awards or share
price changes.
(4) The Committee may in specific circumstances, and in line with stated principles, apply clawback/malus, as it determines appropriate. Following due consideration by the Committee,
there has been no recovery of sums paid (clawback) or reduction of outstanding awards or vesting levels (malus) applied during 2019 in respect of any of the Executive Directors.
See page 124 for further details on the vesting of the DABP matching awards and PSP awards, and page 130 for details of
Payments to Past Directors.
GSK Annual Report 2019 119Annual report on remuneration continued
2019 Total remuneration (audited) continued
The following sections provide details of each element of 2019 ‘Total remuneration’, including how the Committee implemented
the approved Remuneration policy during the year.
Comparator groups for pay and Relative TSR
The Committee used two pay comparator groups when considering executive pay for 2019. The Global pharmaceutical comparator
group is also used to measure Relative TSR performance. The primary groups used for each Executive Director was as follows:
Primary comparator group Global pharmaceutical comparator group
Emma Walmsley AstraZeneca Reckitt Benckiser Dr Hal Barron France US
Iain Mackay BHP Group Rio Tinto Sanofi AbbVie(1)
BP Royal Dutch Shell Switzerland Amgen(1)
British American Tobacco Unilever Novartis Bristol-Myers Squibb
Diageo Vodafone Roche Holdings Eli Lilly
Johnson & Johnson
UK
Merck & Co
AstraZeneca
Pfizer
(1) A bbVie and Amgen are included for remuneration benchmarking, but are not included in the TSR comparator group.
When reviewing the CEO’s remuneration, the Committee has also referenced pay for a group of leading European companies
whose selection was based on their size and complexity.
See page 131 for changes to the comparator group for the CEO and CFO for 2020.
Fixed pay (audited)
Salary Benefits
The table below sets out the base salaries of the Executive The UK remuneration reporting regulations require the company
Directors over the last two years compared to increases for the to add into each Executive Director’s Total “Benefits” calculation
UK and US workforce. all items which are deemed by tax authorities to be a taxable
benefit for them. These details are set out in full on page 129.
Following a shareholder consultation in January 2019, the
Committee decided to adjust the CEO’s pay in two tranches,
each of 8% to reflect her development and performance in role.
Details of salary levels for 2020 are provided on page 131.
Base salary
%
change 2019 2018
Emma Walmsley 8% £1,110,348 £1,028,100
Iain Mackay n/a £850,000 –
Dr Hal Barron 2.5% $1,742,500 $1,700,000
Simon Dingemans 0% £772,800 £772,800
UK & US employees 2.5% – –
120 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Annual report on remuneration continued
Fixed pay (audited) continued
Pensions
Executive Director Member since Pension arrangements in 2019
Emma Walmsley 2010
20% of base salary and matching contributions on the first £33,333 of salary(1); 20% of base salary
Iain Mackay 2019 in lieu of pension on salary in excess of £33,333(2).
Dr Hal Barron 2018 Dr Barron is a member of the 401(k) plan open to all US employees and the Executive Supplemental
Savings Plan (ESSP), a savings scheme open to US executives to accrue benefits above the 401(k)
plan limits.
Having completed one year’s service, from 1 January 2019, Dr Barron receives a combined contribution
rate under the 401(k) and ESSP plans of 6% (2% core contributions plus a match of up to 4%) of total
base salary and bonus, less the bonus deferred under the DABP.
Dr Barron is also a member of the US Cash Balance and the Supplemental Cash Balance pension
plans, under which GSK makes annual contributions of 38% of base salary, in line with other US
senior executives and members of GSK’s CET.
Simon Dingemans – 20% of base salary in lieu of pension(3)
(1) As a member of the defined contribution plan, Emma Walmsley and Iain Mackay are eligible to receive a matching award of up to 5% on the first £33,333 of their salaries in
accordance with the terms of the plan.
(2) Emma Walmsley and Iain Mackay receive cash payments in lieu of pension of 20% of base salary in excess of £33,333 in line with GSK’s defined contribution pension plan rates.
(3) Simon Dingemans received a cash payment in lieu of pension of 20% of base salary in line with GSK’s defined contribution pension plan rates.
The following table shows the breakdown of the pension values set out on page 119. The pension remuneration figures have been
calculated in accordance with the methodology set out in The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Group (Accounts and
Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2008 (Remuneration regulations).
Emma Walmsley Iain Mackay Dr Hal Barron Simon Dingemans
Jan-May
2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018
Pension remuneration values £000 £000 £000 £000 $000 $000 £000 £000
UK defined contribution 18(1) 8 8 – – – – –
US defined benefit – – – – 1,069 1,043 – –
Employer cash contributions 212 199 163 – 190 – 55 155
Total pension remuneration value 230 207 171 – 1,259 1,043 55 155
(1) T he UK defined contribution figure for Emma Walmsley includes £10,000 bonus sacrifice contribution.
Further details regarding the 2019 pension values for Dr Hal Barron are set out in the table below. The pensions figures disclosed
for Dr Barron, who is a member of the US style defined benefit plans are in accordance with paragraph 10.e.ii of Schedule 8 of the
Remuneration regulations.
The table shows the accrued benefit (ie the annual pension accrued to date). In accordance with the regulations, the pension
remuneration in 2019 is calculated as the increase in the accrued benefit, adjusted for inflation and multiplied by 20 to reflect the
fact that the benefit will be received for a number of years.
Accrued pension Pension remuneration
31 December 2019 31 December 2018 value for 2019
Dr Hal Barron pension values $000 $000 $000
US – Funded 1 – 23
US – Unfunded 106 52 1,046
Total 107 52 1,069
Please see details of changes to pensions policy on page 142 of the future policy table and its implementation on page 131.
GSK Annual Report 2019 121Annual report on remuneration continued
Pay for performance (audited)
Annual bonus
30%
70%
Individual Annual bonus
Adjusted Group PBIT
objectives
2019 performance against targets
For 2019, the financial measures and weightings were as follows:
Weighting 2018 Adjusted Group PBIT performance
Positioning
Performance measure Executive Directors 2019 target Outcome against target
Adjusted Group PBIT 70% £8,032m £8,177m 102%
Individual objectives 30%
Threshold and maximum performance targets were set at 95% and 105% of target respectively.
The Adjusted Group PBIT target and outcome for the purposes of the Annual bonus calculation differ from Adjusted Group PBIT
disclosed elsewhere in this Annual Report, primarily because both the target and outcome numbers are calculated applying GSK
budget exchange rates and not actual exchange rates.
The following table shows actual bonuses earned compared to bonus opportunity for 2019:
2019 bonus opportunity 2019 bonus outcome
Financial Individual Total 2019 Total 2019
Target Maximum 2019 performance objectives bonus bonus
Bonus (% of salary) (% of salary) Base salary (% of salary) (% of salary) (% of salary) 000
Emma Walmsley £1,110,348 98 60 158 £1,754
Iain Mackay 100 200 £850,000 98 46.5 144.5 £1,185
Dr Hal Barron $1,742,500 98 55.5 153.5 $2,675
The table below provides more detail on delivery against Adjusted Group PBIT:
Financial performance
– Group turnover was £33.8 billion, a 10% increase at AER and 8% CER.
– Adjusted operating profit was £8,972 million, 3% higher on AER and flat at CER on a turnover increase of 8% CER.
– The Adjusted operating margin of 26.6% was down 1.8% at AER, down 2.1% at CER and down 1.9% CER on a pro-forma basis.
– Total earnings per share increased to 93.9p, up 27% AER and 23% CER, and Adjusted EPS grew 4% at AER and 1% CER
to 123.9p.
– Strong cash generation achieved, with free cash flow of £5.1 billion. Our dividend continued at 80p.
122 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Annual report on remuneration continued
Pay for performance (audited) continued
The following table summarises performance against the scorecard of individual objectives agreed by the Committee for each
Executive Director in addition to their contribution to the financial performance for 2019:
Individual objectives
Emma Walmsley
– Continued focus and progress against long-term IPT priorities. – Supply chain transformation plans delivering brand and
– Robust commercial execution resulted in strong performance in network simplification, and building capacity to support
new product sales: Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines £3.8 billion speciality pipeline. Supply chain reliability targets achieved.
and Consumer Healthcare £0.8 billion. Commercial and medical – Progress on building global reputation across IPT priorities,
speciality capability build on track to support upcoming launches. including No. 1 ranking in Dow Jones Sustainability Index.
Total respiratory sales £3.1 billion, Shingrix sales £1.8 billion, – Met significant milestones in our Global Health strategy,
and continuing to drive transition to 2-drug regimens in HIV. including in our malaria, TB and paediatric HIV programmes.
– Strengthened pipeline through execution of R&D strategy Continued AMR leadership.
(Science x Technology x Culture), doubling the number of – Focused leadership development, including two internal CET
oncology assets in clinical development. Significant progress in promotions (HR and Communications), 29% new in role for
Advanced Technology approach; establishing Laboratory for our top 125 enterprise key roles, and 36% women at Senior
Genomic Research, collaboration with Lyell Immunopharma, and Vice President and Vice President level.
outstanding external hires in Functional Genomics and AI/ML. – Recorded our highest ever employee engagement in April
– Tesaro acquisition completed and integrated. Positive data 2019 through continued focus on creating a performance
read-outs for Zejula. culture underpinned by our values and expectations.
– Consumer Healthcare JV with Pfizer completed ahead of plan,
integration on track and preparation for creation of two new
companies started.
Iain Mackay
– Strong financial leadership of the Group in first year in role. – Key leadership role in preparation for separation into two
– Delivered financial and operating performance above plan for the companies.
Group on turnover, operating profit, free cash flow, capital – Strengthened Finance and Investor Relations team
expenditure and cash restructuring. structure, with high engagement through period of
leadership and company change.
Dr Hal Barron
– R&D strategy delivering strong pipeline progress: 8 assets – Tesaro integrated and delivered efficiency and pipeline
advanced into Phase 1, 4 into Phase 2, 6 into Phase 3, 13 goals, and positive data read-outs for Zejula.
terminations – with at least 6 registration decisions expected in – Re-building GSK’s reputation for Innovation and as a
2020 – supported by continued drive on focus, greater collaboration partner, and significant increase in internal
accountability and decision making. engagement on Innovation.
– Significant business development to support advanced
technology approach, as well as strong capability build including
external hires to lead Functional Genomics and AI/ML. New talent
in 37% of key R&D roles and building oncology capability.
Malus and clawback policy In line with these disclosure guidelines, neither the Committee
For details of our policy on malus and clawback, please refer to (nor the Recoupment Committee) exercised malus or clawback
the company’s Remuneration policy report (page 144), which is during 2019.
also available on GSK.com.
Other policies
The Committee reviews and discloses whether it (or the For details of our existing policies on recruitment remuneration,
Recoupment Committee) has exercised malus or clawback. loss of office and termination payments, please refer to the
Disclosure is only made when the matter has been the subject 2017 Remuneration policy report on pages 137 to 146 of the
of public reports of misconduct, where it has been fully 2016 Annual Report, available on GSK.com. A change to our
resolved, where it is legally permissible to disclose and where it loss of office policy in the 2020 Remuneration policy report is
can be made without unduly prejudicing the company and proposed. Please refer to page 145.
therefore shareholders.
GSK Annual Report 2019 123Annual report on remuneration continued
Pay for performance (audited) continued
Value earned from long-term incentives (LTIs)
The following tables set out the performance achieved by management against the targets set for the company’s LTI plans and also
include an update on performance of outstanding awards.
In line with the Committee’s agreed principles, for each measure applicable to the LTI awards, actual performance against the
targets is reviewed and adjustments made as appropriate to ensure that the vesting outcome reflects genuine underlying business
performance and that results are being delivered in line with our Trust business priority, which reflects the company’s position on
ESG (see page 30). Further details on any adjustments made will be provided at the time of vesting.
2017 awards with a performance period ended 31 December 2019
The Committee reviewed the performance of the PSP awards and the DABP matching awards granted to Executive Directors against
the targets set. Details of its decision to revise the Adjusted free cash flow (AFCF) target are set out on page 104 of the 2018 Annual
Report. The 2017 PSP awards and the DABP matching awards were assessed against the same performance measures.
There are no further changes to the AFCF target. In addition, there are no changes to the targets set for the R&D new product
performance measure or the Relative TSR performance measure for the 2017 PSP awards.
For 2019, the 2017 PSP has been valued based on the average share price during the three-month period to 31 December 2019
of £17.28. Of the vested amount for the CEO, £434,472 relates to share price appreciation over the performance period. The
Committee did not exercise any discretion in relation to the vesting of the awards or share price changes. The 2017 DABP matching
awards have been valued based on the share price at vesting (£16.616). Of the vested amount for the CEO, £18,017 relates to share
price appreciation over the performance period. The Committee did not exercise any discretion in relation to the vesting of the awards
or share price changes.
The performance achieved in the three years to 31 December 2019 and the vesting levels are set out in the table below.
Outcome and vesting level
Performance measures % of % of
and relative weighting Performance targets Outcome maximum award
R&D new product R&D new product sales performance measures aggregate three-year sales for new £7.25bn 100 33.33
performance products launched in the three-year performance period and the preceding two
(to be renamed years, i.e. 2015-19.
Innovation sales)
Target % vesting
(1/3rd)
Maximum £5.10bn 100%
£4.64bn 75%
£4.40bn 50%
Threshold £4.17bn 25%
Adjusted free In line with the company’s agreed principles, the AFCF figures included adjustments £13.00bn 100 33.33
cash flow for a number of material distorting items, including legal settlements, exchange rate
performance movements and special pension contributions.
(1/3rd)
Original Revised
target target(1) % vesting
Maximum £13.59bn £12.95bn 100%
£13.00bn £12.39bn 75%
£11.82bn £11.26bn 50%
Threshold £11.47bn £10.93bn 25%
(1) F urther details of the revised target are set out on page 104 of the 2018 Annual Report.
Relative TSR Ranked 8th 0 0
TSR ranking within comparator group(2) % vesting
performance
Maximum 1st, 2nd, 3rd 100%
(1/3rd)
4th 72%
5th 44%
Threshold(3) Median 30%
6th to 10th 0%
(2) T SR comparator group: AstraZeneca, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Eli Lilly, GSK,
Johnson & Johnson, Merck & Co, Novartis, Pfizer, Roche Holdings and Sanofi.
(3) T he vesting schedule is based on delivering 30% vesting for median performance.
In a comparator group of ten companies, median falls between two companies.
Total vesting in respect of 2017 awards 66.66%
124 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Annual report on remuneration continued
Pay for performance (audited) continued
Update on performance of ongoing LTI awards
The Committee also reviewed the performance of the PSP awards granted to Executive Directors in 2018 and 2019.
The following charts provide an estimate of the vesting levels taking into account performance to 31 December 2019. Actual
vesting levels will only be determined based on performance over the full three-year performance periods. The indications below
should therefore not be regarded as predictions of the final vesting levels.
The AFCF targets and associated vesting scales for the 2018 and 2019 PSP awards have been adjusted. The net overall impact is
a reduction of £0.23bn to £10.56bn for the 2018 award and £1.03bn to £11.07bn for the 2019 award. These adjustments are to
take account of the following items:
– the cash flow impact of the Pfizer transaction in 2019 and 2020, the impact of the Vaccines Rabipur and Encepur divestments
on Operating Profit in 2020 and 2021 and the impact of the Separation Preparation programme, including the 2020
Restructuring Programme costs and savings in Operating Profit and separation costs.
There are no changes to the targets set for the R&D new product performance measure (to be renamed Innovation sales) or the
relative TSR performance measure for the 2018 and 2019 awards.
Performance updates
2018 award 2019 award
Ranked 3rd 122% of Ranked 3rd 122% of
or above £12.14bn threshold or above £12.73bn threshold
Maximum Maximum
Commercially Commercially
Median £10.24bn sensitive Median £10.74bn sensitive
Threshold Threshold
TSR Adjusted free R&D new TSR Adjusted free R&D new
(1/3rd) cash flow product (1/3rd) cash flow product
(1/3rd) (1/3rd) (1/3rd) (1/3rd)
Estimated vesting level Estimated lapsing level
For threshold performance:
– 25% of each award will vest in respect of the R&D new product performance (to be renamed Innovation sales) and AFCF
measures.
– 30% for the Relative TSR element of the 2018 award and 25% of the 2019 award will vest for median performance respectively.
The TSR comparator group remains unchanged from that shown on page 120 in respect of the 2017 awards.
Individual 2018 LTI award levels appear on page 105 of the 2018 Annual Report. They are set out for the 2019 LTI awards on page
126 of this year’s Report.
Historical vesting for LTI plans
Vesting %
Year of Adjusted free R&D new Business Total vested
grant Relative TSR cash flow product diversification Lapsed %
2009 9 40 51 49
2010 9 16 75 25
2011 0 13 16 11 60 40
2012 0 0 7 7 86 14
2013 0 0 21 17 62 38
2014 0 0 33 67 33
2015 15 21 33 31 69
2016 0 26 33 41 59
2017 0 33 33 33 67
For the DABP, the 2010 awards were only subject to TSR performance and from 2011 awards were subject to the same performance measures as PSP awards.
GSK Annual Report 2019 125Annual report on remuneration continued
Pay for performance (audited) continued
2019 LTI awards
The 2019 DABP awards in respect of the deferral of 2018 bonus and the 2019 PSP awards are shown in the table below.
2019 DABP awards 2019 PSP awards
2018
% of total bonus Number of Face value Award level as % Number of Face value
deferred shares of award(1) of base salary shares of award(2)(3)
Emma Walmsley 50% 61,813 shares £0.956m 550% 404,592 shares £6.1m
Iain Mackay(4) – – – 400% 225,255 shares £3.4m
Dr Hal Barron 50% 37,120 ADS $1.504m 500% 217,161 ADS $8.7m
Simon Dingemans(5) 50% 44,215 shares £0.684m – – –
(1) The face values of the DABP awards has been calculated based on a share price of £15.47 and an ADS price of $40.53, being the closing prices on 12 February 2019 (the day before
grant). These are nil-cost options for the UK Executive Directors and restricted shares for the US Executive Director. No performance conditions are attached to the DABP awards,
as they reflect the mandatory deferrals in respect of the 2018 annual bonus earned.
(2) The face values of the PSP awards has been calculated based on a share price of £15.09, and an ADS price of $40.12, being the closing prices on 7 March 2019 (the day before
grant). These are conditional shares, based on three equally weighted measures: (i) R&D new product performance (to be renamed Innovation sales); (ii) Adjusted free cash flow;
and (iii) Relative TSR. Each performance measure vests at 25% at threshold.
(3) The performance period for the 2019 PSP awards is from 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2021.
(4) Iain Mackay was appointed to the Board on 14 January 2019.
(5) Simon Dingemans’ 2019 DABP award will vest as normal three years after the date it was granted.
All-employee share plans Dilution limits
UK Executive Directors may participate in HMRC approved All awards are made under plans which incorporate dilution
all-employee share plans with the wider UK workforce, i.e. limits consistent with the guidelines published by the
Share Save and Share Reward plans. Investment Association. These limits are 10% in any rolling
ten-year period for all plans and 5% in any rolling ten-year
Participants of the Share Save plan may save up to £250 a
period for executive share plans (granted to senior executives).
month for three years and at the end of the period have the
Estimated dilution from existing awards made over the last ten
option to buy GSK shares at a 20% discount to the share price
years up to 31 December 2019 is as follows:
at the start of the savings contract. Participants of the Share
Reward plan contribute up to £125 a month to purchase GSK
All GSK employee share plans
shares which the company then matches.
For further details see page 137.
1.60% 10%
10%
0 02 04 06 08 10
Executive share plans
1.32% 5%
Actual Limit
0 02 04 06
126 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Annual report on remuneration continued
CEO pay comparison
2019 CEO total remuneration positioning Supplemental/Additional ratios
GSK’s CEO pay ratio is likely to vary, potentially significantly, over
time since it will be driven largely by CEO variable pay outcomes.
In line with our reward principles, the CEO has a larger portion of
her pay based on performance than the individuals at P25, P50
Global
pharmaceutical and P75. This means that depending on GSK’s performance the
group
ratio could increase or decrease significantly. The Committee
believes that our senior executives should have a significant
European proportion of their pay directly linked to performance.
cross-industry
group In light of this we have also provided supplemental ratios,
where LTI compensation has been excluded. We believe this
(£m) 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 provides an additional view as LTIs formed a substantial
percentage of the CEO’s total remuneration, which is highly
Lower quartile Median to upper Emma Walmsley’s
to median quartile current position variable and dependent on business performance. The CEO
Remuneration includes salary and the expected value of incentives based on the 2019 total remuneration excluding Long Term Incentive
Committee’s agreed benchmarking methodology. compensation is £3,286,000.
CEO pay ratios Financial Year Methodology P25 P50 P75
(Lower (Upper 2019 65:1 48:1 32:1
Quartile) (Median) Quartile) Option A*
2018 70:1 52:1 34:1
Methodology P25 P50 P75
2019 166:1 123:1 76:1 * Total remuneration less vesting of Long-Term Incentive awards
Option A
2018 122:1 90:1 56:1 Historic CEO remuneration
The pay ratios above are calculated using actual earnings for Emma Walmsley Sir Andrew Witty
the CEO and UK employees. The CEO total single figure £000 £000
2019 2018 2017 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
remuneration of £8,370,043 for 2019 and £5,887,672 for
Total 8,369 5,8874,883(1) 715(2)6,8306,661 3,902 7,207 4,3866,807
2018 are given on page 119 of this Report.
remuneration
Total remuneration for all UK full-time equivalent employees of Annual bonus 79% 93% 77% 0%(2) 97%100% 42% 88% 44%100%
award(2)
the company on 31 December 2019 has been calculated in line
(% of
with the single figure methodology and reflects their actual maximum)
earnings received in 2019 (excluding business expenses), Vesting of 67% 59% 69% 0%(3) 33% 38% 14% 31% 24% 70%
LTI awards
which were used to produce the percentile calculation under
(% of
Option A of the Remuneration regulations. Business expenses maximum)
have been excluded as they are reimbursed to employees
(1) Ms Walmsley’s total remuneration includes her pay for the period 1 January
and not sufficiently substantial in value to significantly impact to 31 March 2017, before she became CEO.
the ratios. (2) Sir Andrew received a pro-rata payment for 2017 in lieu of a variable bonus
opportunity, in accordance with the 2014 Remuneration policy.
GSK continues to choose Option A because it is the most
(3) PSP and DABP awards for Sir Andrew granted in 2015 did not vest until April 2018,
robust and statistically accurate way for the company to in accordance with the terms of the Executive financial recoupment policy.
calculate the three ratios from the options available in the
Percentage change in remuneration of CEO
Remuneration regulations. The increase in the pay ratio for
Emma Walmsley UK Employees
2019 is due to the outcome of the 2017 PSP award, the first
2019
award for Emma Walmsley as CEO. £000 % change % change
Set out in the table below is the base salary, and total pay and Salary 1,110 8% 2.5%
benefits for each of the percentiles. Benefits 192 (18)% 0%
Annual bonus 1,754 (8)% 9%
2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018
£ P25 P50 P75 For the wider UK employee population, the salary increase
Salary 33,090 33,090 47,029 44,944 66,561 64,185 includes the annual salary review as well as any additional
Total pay and changes in the year, e.g. on promotion. UK employee benefits
benefits 50,467 48,370 68,200 65,149 110,638 105,045 are unchanged on the previous year as there have been no
changes to our benefit policies or levels. It does not reflect any
The Committee believes that the median pay ratio is consistent
changes to the level of benefits an individual may have received
with the company’s pay, reward and progression policies.
as a result of a change in role, e.g. on promotion. The UK
The base salaries of all employees, including the Executive
employee population was considered to be the most relevant
Directors, are set with reference to a range of factors including
comparison as it most closely reflects the economic environment
market practice, experience and performance in role.
encountered by the CEO.
GSK Annual Report 2019 127Annual report on remuneration continued
CEO pay comparison continued
Performance graph 380
The following graph sets out the performance of the company
relative to the FTSE 100 index and to the pharmaceutical 340
performance comparator group for the ten-year period to 31
300
December 2019. These indices were selected for comparison
purposes as they reflect both the primary index of which GSK is 260
a constituent and the industry in which it operates.
220
180
140
100
31.12.09 31.12.10 31.12.11 31.12.12 31.12.13 31.12.14 31.12.15 31.12.16 31.12.17 31.12.18 31.12.19
GSK Total Return GSK Pharma Peers FTSE 100
Total Return Index* Total Return Index
* This index comprises AstraZeneca, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Eli Lilly, Johnson &
Johnson, Merck & Co, Novartis, Pfizer, Roche Holdings and Sanofi.
Additional remuneration disclosures
Relative importance of spend on pay External appointments for Executive Directors
The table shows total employee pay and the Group’s dividends The Board encourages Executive Directors to hold one listed
paid to shareholders. company external non-executive directorship (or equivalent) in
Change 2019 2018 line with the FRC’s 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code,
% £m £m
as they become established in their roles, to broaden their
Total employee pay 4.40 9,855 9,440
experience and development, from which they may retain
Dividends paid in the year 0.7 3,953 3,927
any fees.
The figures in the table above, which reflect payments made
Any such appointments are considered by the Board, in line with
during each year and the impact of movements in exchange
the company’s policy on external appointments, to ascertain the
rates, are as set out on pages 185 and 192. However,
nature and scope of the appointments and ensure they would
dividends declared in respect of 2019 were £3,961 million
not cause an actual or potential conflict of interest, and that the
(2018 – £3,940 million) an increase of 0.5%.
individual Executive Director continues to meet their existing
Total employee pay is based on 97,214 employees, the average commitments to GSK.
number of people employed during 2019 (2018 – 96,851).
CEO
There were no share repurchases made by the company During the year, the Board approved Emma Walmsley’s
during the year. nomination to the board of Microsoft Corporation as an
independent non-executive director. She joined its board on
Service contracts
4 December 2019 after shareholder approval. She is expected
The table below sets out the dates of the Executive Directors’
to receive $325,000 in fees per annum, of which $125,000 will
service contracts, which are available for review at the company’s
be delivered in cash and $200,000 as stock options under
registered office during office hours and on GSK.com. Each
Microsoft Corporation’s Deferred Compensation Plan for
Executive Director’s service contract contains a 12-month notice
their non-employee directors. She received no fees in 2019.
period, as set out in the existing and proposed new policy.
CFO
Date of contract Effective date Expiry date
Iain Mackay is a Trustee of the British Heart Foundation and
Emma Walmsley 29.03.17 01.04.17 30.06.34
a member of the Court of the University of Aberdeen and The
Iain Mackay 18.09.18 14.01.19 n/a
100 Group. He does not receive fees for these external
Dr Hal Barron 16.12.17 01.01.18 31.12.24
appointments.
Shareholder votes on remuneration matters
CSO
The table below shows the most recent shareholder votes in
The Board recognises the importance of ensuring that Hal
respect of the Remuneration report and the Remuneration policy.
Barron remains connected to the life sciences community and
Votes
Total votes Total votes Total votes withheld has therefore approved his appointment to the board of GRAIL
cast (billion) for (%) against (%) (million) Inc (a private company) in 2018 as a non-executive director.
Remuneration report During 2019, he earned $50,086 in fees.
2019 AGM 3.2 88.8 11.2 8.6
Remuneration policy
2017 AGM 3.4 95.2 4.8 66
128 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Annual report on remuneration continued
2019 Total Benefits (audited)
The tables below provide an analysis of Total benefits received by the Executive Directors in 2018 and 2019.
These comprise:
– Employee benefits, in line with the policy for other employees, which may vary by location and role; and
– Business related services provided to employees to assist or enable them to carry out their role, which a tax authority has
deemed to be a taxable “benefit” to the individual. Because these are business expenses, the company meets the tax which
arises on them and therefore the items are shown grossed up for tax. These can be split into three areas:
– Business travel: includes travel costs for the Executive Director and as appropriate for their spouse/partner associated with
accompanying the Executive Director on GSK business which are deemed to be taxable benefits for the Director.
– Accommodation whilst on business travel.
– Other benefits.
2019 2018
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Gross up for tax Gross up for tax
Emma Walmsley Net (UK & US) Total Net (UK & US) Total
Benefits available to employees 52 8 60 55 19 74
Business related services(1)
Business travel 47 38 85 79 65 144
Other benefits 26 21 47 9 7 16
Total benefits 125 67 192 143 91 234
2019 2018
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Gross up for tax Gross up for tax
Iain Mackay Net (UK & US) Total Net (UK & US) Total
Benefits available to employees 83 16 99 – – –
Business related services(1)
Business travel 19 16 35 – – –
Other benefits 3 2 5 – – –
Total benefits 105 34 139 – – –
2019 2018
$000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000
Gross up for tax Gross up for tax
Dr Hal Barron(2) Net (UK & US) Total Net (UK & US) Total(2)
Benefits available to employees 46 16 62 35 7 42
Business related services(1)
Business travel 272(2) 142 414 220 244 464
Accommodation whilst on business travel(3) 85 95 180 140 155 295
Other benefits 2 1 3 3 3 6
Total benefits 405 254 659 398 409 807
2019 2018
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Gross up for tax Gross up for tax
Simon Dingemans Net (UK & US) Total Net (UK & US) Total
Benefits available to employees 41 27 68 42 13 55
Business related services(1)
Business travel 5 5 10 41 33 74
Other benefits 8 6 14 7 5 12
Total benefits 54 38 92 90 51 141
Notes:
(1) B usiness related services which tax regulations deem to be a taxable benefit in the UK and/or the US.
(2) D uring 2019, GSK reviewed the methodology for allocating the cost of certain business travel. Using the previous methodology, Dr Barron’s Business travel would have
totalled approximately $129,000 net for 2019. Conversely, the current methodology would have resulted in an additional cost of approximately $322,000 in 2018 bringing
his Business travel in 2018 to approximately $552,000 net.
(3) D r Barron’s place of main business moved during 2019 from the UK to the US, resulting in a reduction in this cost for 2019.
GSK Annual Report 2019 129Annual report on remuneration continued
Payments to past Directors (audited)
Vesting and release of LTI awards to past Directors.
As set out in our 2016 Annual Report, Sir Andrew Witty and Dr Moncef Slaoui left the Board on 31 March 2017 by mutual
agreement.
In accordance with the Remuneration policy, approved by shareholders in 2014, their 2016 PSP awards and 2016 DABP awards
vest over the original timescales and subject to the original performance conditions.
Dr Moncef Slaoui Sir Andrew Witty
Number of % vested in ADS price Equating to Number of % vested in Share price Equating to
ADS awarded 2019 $ $000 shares awarded 2019 £ £000
2016 PSP 110,433 59 41.17 4,547 2016 PSP 343,530 59 15.89 5,459
2016 DABP 14,508 59 41.17 597 2016 DABP 27,928 59 15.89 444
Other benefits: the grossed up cost of the post employment Other benefits: the grossed up cost of the post employment
financial planning was $29,480. home security was £8,149.
Simon Dingemans – left on 8 May 2019
PSP 2017 and 2018 awards lapsed in
DABP Matching awards May 2019
DABP awards 2017 award will vest in May 2020
under the terms of the Executive
financial recoupment policy.
2018 and 2019 awards will vest in
February 2021 and February 2022
respectively, in accordance with the
standard vesting rules.
Simon Dingemans left the Board in May 2019. As he was a
voluntary leaver, he did not receive any severance payment
when he left the company. He did not receive any annual
bonus in respect of 2019 and his outstanding LTIs were
treated in line with the approved Remuneration policy as set
out in the table above.
Payments for loss of office (audited)
No loss of office payments were made in 2019 or 2018.
130 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Annual report on remuneration continued
Implementation of Remuneration policy for 2020
Comparator groups for pay and Relative TSR
Following feedback and engagement with shareholders, the Committee decided to replace the UK cross-industry comparator
group with a broader European cross-industry group for the CEO and CFO. The European cross-industry group comprises:
CEO & CFO – Europe cross-industry comparator group
Roche Holding AG Linde Deutsche Telekom
Novartis Sanofi Kering
LVMH AstraZeneca Heineken
Anheuser-Busch Inbev Diageo BASF
Unilever Siemens Vinci
SAP Christian Dior Adidas
L’Oreal Inditex Bayer
Novo Nordisk A/S BAT Safran
Airbus Volkswagen Reckitt Benckiser
CSO & Relative TSR performance for Executive Directors – Global pharmaceuticals comparator group
The Global pharmaceuticals comparator group will continue to be used for the CSO’s remuneration and to measure Relative TSR
performance for the Executive Directors.
See page 120 for the composition of this group.
Fixed Pay
Salary
The Committee considered the average increases being Pension
awarded to employees below the level of CET in the UK The Committee has carefully considered and engaged with
and US. After due consideration, it was agreed that it was investors on the pension provisions for the new Executive
appropriate to award increases in line with the wider workforce Directors in light of the external focus on this area of
to the CSO and CFO to ensure the competitiveness of their remuneration. The proposed new policy has been changed
remuneration could be maintained. following this engagement.
After review of the CEO’s continued development and The Committee has also committed to reduce existing UK
sustained performance, and following further engagement with Executive Directors’ pensions to align with the wider workforce
shareholders, it was agreed that the second 8% base salary by January 2023. The pension contributions of the CSO
increase (as outlined in the 2018 Annual Report on pages 96 will be retained given the contractual commitment on his
and 97) should be implemented. appointment, his exceptional talent and the critical importance
of making continued progress in R&D for the Group prospects
Base salary 2020 % change
over the coming years. Any new US-based Executive Director’s
Wider workforce(1) – 2.5
pension will be aligned to the wider US workforce on
Emma Walmsley £1,199,176 8
appointment.
Iain Mackay £871,250 2.5
Dr Hal Barron $1,786,060 2.5 2020 Pension contribution
Emma Walmsley 20% of base salary and matching contributions of 5%
(1) Based on the average increase budget for employees below the level of CET in the
UK and US. Iain Mackay on the first £33,333 of salary in accordance with the
terms of the plan open to all employees, and 20% of
base salary in lieu of pension on salary in excess
Benefits
of £33,333
See page 141 for details of the proposed new policy on
Dr Hal Barron 38% of base salary.
benefits. No changes are being made to Executive Directors’ In addition, in line with the wider US workforce, from
benefits. 1 January 2019, a combined contribution rate under the
401(k) and ESSP plans of 6% (2% core contribution
plus a match of up to 4%) of total base salary and
bonus, less the bonus deferred under the DABP.
GSK Annual Report 2019 131Annual report on remuneration continued
Implementation of Remuneration policy for 2020 continued
Pay for performance The table below provides details of awards granted under the
PSP:
Annual bonus
2020 PSP award(2)
There are no changes to the operation of the Annual bonus
Change in
plan. % of salary award level(1) Shares ADSs
For full details of the policy in relation to the Annual bonus plan, Emma Walmsley 550 4.5% 392,260
please refer to the details in the new policy on page 142. Iain Mackay 400 – 207,267
Dr Hal Barron 500 – 203,981
Bonus opportunity Weighting of
% of salary performance measures % (1) T he increase in award level to Ms Walmsley from 550% will be delivered through a top
Adjusted Scorecard up award, subject to shareholder approval of the Remuneration report at the AGM on 6
Group of individual May 2020.
Target Maximum PBIT objectives (2) T he awards were granted at a price of £16.81 per share and $43.78 per ADS.
Emma Walmsley
LTI performance measures
Iain Mackay 100 200 70 30 Continuous consideration has been given to the introduction of
Dr Hal Barron a measure to recognise the importance of accelerating and
strengthening our pipeline to further support our Innovation
In setting and assessing performance levels of the Executive
business priority. This has even greater importance as we work
Directors, the Committee considers performance against the
towards separation of the Group. The Committee, after
company’s Trust business priority (see page 30) which reflects
engagement with investors, decided to introduce a strategic
the Group’s approach to ESG factors.
Pipeline progress measure.
Inevitably, targets linked directly to the financial and strategic
Pipeline progress measure
plan are commercially sensitive. The Committee does not
Specifically, this will be targeted to reward progress in
consider it appropriate to disclose Annual bonus targets during
strengthening our R&D pipeline with high quality assets and
the year, as it may result in competitive harm. However, details of
in achieving approvals in major markets for key assets or
the performance targets, as usual, will be disclosed on a
indications. The focus of this metric will be on achievement
retrospective basis in the 2020 Annual Report.
of material milestones.
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan (DABP) 2020 awards
The Committee will set targets based on relevant milestones
The table below provides details of the mandatory deferral into
and the commercial value delivered to the business at the end
the DABP of 50% of 2019 Annual bonus payments and the
of the performance period.
associated awards granted. The shares awarded have no
performance conditions, but must be held for three years, The Pipeline progress measure is based on two equally
regardless of continued employment. weighted elements for key assets or indications:
Total bonus deferred DABP awards Pipeline progress LTI award
into shares % Shares ADS Pipeline progress measure measure % %
Emma Walmsley 52,169 Pivotal trial starts
Iain Mackay 50 35,223 Focuses mainly on phase III
Dr Hal Barron 30,547 registrational trial starts, but 50 10
may also include phase II starts
(for example, in oncology).
Performance Share Plan (PSP) 2020 awards
Following careful consideration and engagement with investors, Major regulatory
50 10
approval milestones
the Committee intends to increase Emma Walmsley’s annual
PSP award level from 550% to 575% of salary to recognise her Points will be allocated to the assets in each sub-measure
development in role and strong performance, together with the based on their forecast commercial value (peak year sales) at
highly competitive landscape in which GSK operates. This the end of the performance period.
award remains below the newly reduced maximum grant under
the proposed new policy. The Committee has considered in Pipeline
progress LTI award Threshold Maximum
particular the high regard in which she is held by virtue of her measure % 25% 50% 75% 100%
performance and her competitive positioning against her peers. Pivotal 10 13 points 14 points 15 points 18 points
This adjustment will bring her total compensation to be broadly trial starts
market median level, provided the company delivers strong Major 10 18 points 19 points 20 points 22 points
long-term performance. However, when compared to the Global regulatory
approval
pharmaceuticals comparator group she remains below lower
milestones
median. (See page 127).
To more easily differentiate the existing R&D new product sales
measure, it has been renamed “Innovation sales”. That measure
is otherwise unchanged.
132 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Annual report on remuneration continued
Implementation of Remuneration policy for 2020 continued
The weightings of the four LTI measures for 2020 onwards Shareholdings versus Share Ownership Requirement (SOR)
will be: To align the interests of Executive Directors with those of
shareholders, they are required to build and maintain significant
LTI measure Weighting holdings of shares in GSK over time. Executive Directors are
business priority Measure Previous New
required to continue to satisfy these share ownership
Innovation Innovation sales
requirements by holding 100% of SOR for the first 12 months
(previously R&D
33% 20% after leaving GSK. Going forward Executive Directors will also
new product
performance) be required to hold at least 50% of their SOR for months 13-24
after leaving GSK.
Pipeline progress – 20%
Performance Relative TSR 33% 30% Share ownership vs SOR (multiples of base salary)
Adjusted free
33% 30%
cash flow
Emma Walmsley 6.5x 6.8x
Trust – business priority
Iain Mackay 3.0x
When setting targets and reviewing management’s
performance against all LTI measures, the Committee considers
Dr Hal Barron 1.0x 3.0x
and reflects on the company’s Trust business priority. Our
Trust priority reflects the company’s approach to ESG factors 0 2x 4x 6x
(see page 30). SOR 31 December 2019 shareholding
Disclosure of measures
The Committee is mindful of investors’ concerns over the See page 137 for the Executive Directors’ shareholdings on
non-disclosure of targets at the time of grant. It has committed 24 February 2020.
to disclose all targets in full following the end of each Mr Dingemans, who left GSK in 2019, continues to hold three
performance period. times his previous base salary.
It will continue to provide shareholders with interim performance
updates for measures over the course of the performance
period.
It exercises rigour in its assessment of performance against
measures. It will enlist support from the Science Committee in
assessing performance against the new Pipeline progress
measure.
Innovation
The targets for Innovation sales and Pipeline progress measures
are of their nature commercially sensitive at the time of grant.
Performance
Relative TSR will continue to be measured against GSK’s
Global pharmaceutical comparator group (see page 120).
Adjusted free cash flow (AFCF)
The targets for the AFCF measure for the 2020 grant are:
Target % vesting
Maximum £11.84bn 100%
£11.33bn 75%
£10.30bn 50%
Threshold £9.99bn 25%
GSK Annual Report 2019 133Annual report on remuneration continued
Remuneration governance
Role of the Committee The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee and
The role of the Committee is to set the company’s remuneration attends all meetings. Other attendees at the Committee include:
policy having regard to GSK’s workforce remuneration so that
Committee attendees
GSK is able to recruit, retain and motivate its executives.
Regular Attends as
The Remuneration policy is regularly reviewed to ensure that it Attendee attendee required
is consistent with the company’s scale and scope of operations, CEO ✓
supports the business strategy and growth plans, is aligned to CFO ✓
the wider workforce and helps drive the creation of shareholder Head of Human Resources ✓
value. Head of Reward ✓
Committee Adviser (PwC) ✓
Terms of reference
The Committee’s terms of reference are available on the Judy Lewent and Vindi Banga, as members of the Audit & Risk
company’s website. The terms of reference are reviewed at least and Remuneration Committees, provide input on the Audit &
annually and were last revised in December 2019 to reflect best Risk Committee’s review of the Group’s performance and
practice developments. oversight of any risk factors relevant to remuneration decisions.
Governance The Committee Chair meets with employees or their HR
The Board considers all of the members of the Committee to representatives to understand employees’ views on
be independent Non-Executive Directors in accordance with remuneration. In addition, Dr Cox, GSK’s Workforce
the 2018 Code. Engagement Director, provides the Committee with insights
into the views of the wider workforce on remuneration at GSK.
Membership
The members of the Committee, together with their appointment Adviser to the Committee
dates, are set out below: PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) has been the
independent adviser to the Committee since it was appointed
Committee members Committee member since in 2018 after a full commercial tender exercise was concluded
Urs Rohner 1 January 2015 by the company. PwC is a member of the Remuneration
Chair (Chair since 7 May 2015) Consultants’ Group and, as such, voluntarily operates under
Vindi Banga 1 January 2016 the code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration
consulting in the UK. The code of conduct can be found at
Dr Vivienne Cox 1 January 2017
www.remunerationconsultantsgroup.com.
Judy Lewent 1 January 2013
During the year, PwC did not have any other connection with
Committee meetings usually include a closed session, during the Committee members or other Board Directors. However,
which only members of the Committee are present. Other it did provide other consulting and assurance services to the
individuals may also be invited to attend Committee meetings company. In line with the protocols agreed and set by the
during the year. Executives and other Committee attendees are Committee Chair under which PwC provided their advice,
not involved in any decisions, and are not present at any the Committee is satisfied that such advice has been objective
discussions, regarding their own remuneration. and independent.
Details of the Committee members’ skills and experience are given in PwC has provided independent commentary on matters
their biographies under ‘Our Board’ on pages 79 to 81. See page 90 under consideration by the Committee and updates on market
for Committee member attendance levels. practice and legislative requirements. PwC’s fees for advice
during the year, which were charged on both a fixed and a time
and materials basis, were £177,000.
Willis Towers Watson provided additional market data to the
Committee.
Committee evaluation
The Committee’s annual evaluation was externally facilitated by
No 4 who interviewed Committee members on the Committee
Chair’s behalf. It was concluded that the Committee continued
to operate effectively.
134 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Annual report on remuneration continued
What the Committee did during 2019
Areas of Committee focus Items discussed
Remuneration policy – 2020 Executive remuneration policy review and recommendations
The Committee sets the broad structure for the Remuneration – Remuneration impact of major Group restructuring
policy and determines the remuneration of the Executive
– Engagement with shareholders
Directors, the Chairman and other corporate officers.
Salary review – Review of remuneration environment (including wider employee
The Committee periodically reviews and considers the trends)
remuneration environment of Executive Directors and CET, – Executive Director and CET benchmarking, competitiveness and
approving annual adjustments as necessary having regard to the GSK comparator groups
remuneration of the wider workforce.
– Executive Director, CET and Company Secretary salary review and
recommendations for 2019
Annual bonus – CEO, Executive Directors and CET 2018 bonus recommendations
The Committee is responsible for setting specific performance and 2019 CEO bonus objectives
measures for the Annual bonus and for assessments of
performance.
LTI plans – LTI performance outcomes and vesting of LTI awards for CET and
The Committee is responsible for approving LTI plan rule changes, below
grants, assessments of performance, and the vesting of LTI awards – Confirmation of LTI grants for CET and below
for the Executive Directors, CET and below (including interim
awards). – Development of a new Innovation pipeline measure
Governance and other areas of focus – Review of Terms of Reference
The Committee adheres to a robust remuneration governance – Committee evaluation annual review
framework, ensuring alignment between internal actions and
– 2018 Remuneration report
external reporting/compliance requirements.
– Confirmation of 2019 Group Budget for remuneration purposes
– Remuneration considerations and committee programme for 2019
– AGM and Remuneration report feedback, the external remuneration
environment and performance target disclosure for incentive plans
– Approval of the new Chairman’s fees
– 2019 Remuneration report disclosures, including CEO pay ratio
– Annual governance meeting; key committee messages and
presentation of the 2020 Remuneration policy and consideration of
feedback received
– Employer consultation with employees or employee representatives
on setting pay
– Gender pay gap reporting
GSK Annual Report 2019 135Annual report on remuneration continued
Non-Executive Directors’ fees
Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors 2019 Non-Executive Directors’ fees
The company aims to provide the Chairman and other Non- The Non-Executive Directors’ fees that applied during 2019 are
Executive Directors with fees that are competitive with those set out in the table below:
paid by other companies of equivalent size and complexity, Per annum
subject to the limits contained in its Articles of Association. Standard annual fee £85,000
Supplemental fees
Chairman’s fees
Chair of the Audit & Risk Committee £80,000
The Chairman is paid a fee of £700,000 per annum, of which
Senior Independent Director £30,000
he has elected to take 25% in GSK shares. The Chairman’s
Scientific/Medical Experts
fees were reviewed on the appointment of the new Chair. It was Chairs of the Remuneration, Corporate
concluded they remained appropriate. Responsibility and Science Committees
Non-Executive Director undertaking intercontinental £7,500 per meeting
travel to meetings
Implementation of Non-Executive Directors’ policy in 2020
Non-Executive Directors’ standard fees were last increased in January 2013. Following a review and engagement with shareholders
it was agreed to:
– increase the annual fees payable to the Non-Executive Directors with effect from 1 January 2020 to:
– £95,000 for the standard annual fee
– £50,000 for the Senior Independent Director
– £40,000 for other Committee Chairs, including the Remuneration, Corporate Responsibility and Science Committees
– subject to shareholder approval, introduce a supplemental fee with effect from 1 January 2020, payable to the Workforce
Engagement Director (£40,000 for 2020). Authorise the payment to a Non-Executive Director of up to the amount paid to a
Committee Chair (£40,000 for 2020) for undertaking additional duties in exceptional or unforeseen circumstances requiring a
significant additional time commitment.
No changes are proposed to the fees payable to the Chair of the Audit & Risk Committee or Scientific/Medical Experts. We do not
expect to make any other increases to the fees payable to Non-Executive Directors during the new policy period. The increases
described above reflect the time commitments of these roles.
Non-Executive Directors will continue to be required to invest at least 25% of their total net fees in GSK shares or ADS.
2019 Total fees (audited)
The audited table below sets out the value of fees and benefits received by the Non-Executive Directors in the form of cash and
shares or ADS. Further details of the Non-Executive Directors’ share allocation plan are set out on page 137. Non-Executive
Directors’ fees that are paid in a currency other than Sterling are converted using an average exchange rate that is reviewed
from time to time. Benefits comprise the grossed up cash value of travel and subsistence costs incurred in the normal course
of business, in relation to attendance at Board and Committee meetings. For overseas-based Directors, this includes travel to
meetings in the UK.
2019 2018
Non-Executive Directors’
Fixed fees Fixed fees
emoluments (000) (audited)
Cash Shares/ADS Benefits Total pay Cash Shares/ADS Benefits Total pay
Vindi Banga £92 £31 £4 £127 £65 £50 £3 £118
Dr Vivienne Cox £69 £23 £8 £100 £64 £21 £11 £96
Lynn Elsenhans $24 $196 $75 $295 $56 $175 $90 $321
Dr Laurie Glimcher – $220 $76 $296 – $231 $73 $304
Dr Jesse Goodman $199 $66 $66 $331 $208 $69 $115 $392
Judy Lewent $222 $74 $82 $378 $230 $77 $130 $437
Urs Rohner £92 £31 £13 £136 £86 £29 £23 £138
Sir Jonathan Symonds £174 £58 £2 £234 – – – –
Former directors:
Professor Sir Roy Anderson (1) – – – – £39 £7 £18 £64
Philip Hampton £352 £117 £12 £481 £525 £175 £19 £719
Sir Deryck Maughan (2) – – – – – – £5 £5
Dr Daniel Podolsky (2) – – £2 £2 – – £7 £7
Hans Wijers (3) – – – – – – £8 £8
(1) Professor Sir Roy Anderson retired from the Board on 3 May 2018.
(2) Dr Daniel Podolsky and Sir Deryck Maughan retired from the Board on 5 May 2016.
(3) Hans Wijers retired from the Board on 7 May 2015.
136 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Annual report on remuneration continued
Directors’ interests in shares (audited)
The interests of the Directors of the company in office during 2019 and their persons closely associated (PCA) are shown in the
tables below.
Total share plan interests as at 31 December 2019 or date of leaving
Total directors’ interests as at Shares/ADS Options
31 December 1 January Unvested
2019 2019 and not Unvested and Unvested and Unvested and
24 February or date of or date of subject to subject to not subject to subject to Vested but Exercised in
2020 leaving appointment performance(1) performance(2) performance(1) performance(2) not exercised the year
Executive Directors
Shares
Emma Walmsley(1,3,4,5,6) 492,034 441,082 281,726 – 1,300,605 166,189 36,831 – 188,870
Iain Mackay(4) 35,223 – – – 233,791 – – – –
Simon Dingemans(1,2,3,4,6,8) – 740,484 540,663 319,005 470,703 122,628 32,712 – 68,708
ADS
Dr Hal Barron(1,4) 71,096 40,143 1,644 38,499 480,051 – – – –
Share allocation plan for Non-Executive Directors
Total directors’ interests as at Number of shares or ADS
31 December 1 January Dividends Dividends
2019 2019 reinvested reinvested
24 February or date of or date of after year 31 December during the Allocated 31 December
2020 leaving appointment end 2019 Paid out year & elected 2018
Non-Executive Directors
Shares(7)
Vindi Banga 61,205 59,748 56,753 1,058 24,548 – 1,091 1,904 21,553
Dr Vivienne Cox 5,428 4,939 3,352 195 4,939 – 150 1,437 3,352
Urs Rohner 10,989 10,171 7,885 419 10,171 – 382 1,904 7,885
Sir Jonathan Symonds 32,974 18,805 17,971 9 834 – – 834 –
Philip Hampton(8) – 61,643 51,157 – – (54,725) 2,125 8,361 44,239
ADS(7)
Lynn Elsenhans 39,151 36,629 30,587 1,467 35,629 – 1,497 4,545 29,587
Dr Laurie Glimcher 13,075 11,492 5,961 410 11,492 – 202 5,329 5,961
Dr Jesse Goodman 6,955 6,352 4,538 249 6,352 – 206 1,608 4,538
Judy Lewent 27,865 26,780 24,271 691 16,614 – 717 1,792 14,105
1) U nvested options not subject to performance of 166,189 for Emma Walmsley represent bonus deferrals of 165,445 and Share Save options of 744.
U nvested shares not subject to performance of 319,005 for Simon Dingemans represent 100% of the shares awarded at the end of the three-year
performance periods for the 2015 and 2016 PSP grants, together with subsequent reinvested dividends. These shares are subject to a two-year holding
period ending in February 2020 (2015 PSP grant) and February 2021 (2016 PSP grant). Unvested options not subject to performance of 122,628 for
Mr Dingemans represent bonus deferrals of 122,172 and Share Save options of 456. The Share Save options lapsed in May 2019 when he left GSK.
Unvested ADS not subject to performance of 38,499 for Dr Hal Barron represent bonus deferrals.
2) U nvested shares subject to performance of 470,703 for Simon Dingemans represent PSP awards granted in 2017 and 2018 which lapsed in May 2019
when he left GSK. Unvested options subject to performance of 32,712 represent DABP matching awards granted in 2017 which lapsed in May 2019 when
he left GSK.
3) T otal Directors’ interests includes shares purchased through the GlaxoSmithKline Share Reward Plan. During 2019, Emma Walmsley and Simon Dingemans
were awarded 93 and 41 shares respectively under the plan. The total number of shares held within the plan are as follows:
Share Reward Plan (Shares) 24 February 2020 31 December 2019 1 January 2019
Emma Walmsley 1,806 1,760 1,496
Simon Dingemans – – 1,943
Dr Hal Barron is a US employee and is not eligible to participate in the Share Reward Plan, as this is only open to UK employees.
4) T otal directors’ interests includes options over shares or ADS resulting from the deferral of bonus (and the subsequent reinvestment of dividends) under the
DABP. The totals shown in the table below include bonus deferrals, but exclude any unvested matching awards which are subject to ongoing performance
criteria. The last matching award was granted in 2017. The amounts represent the gross share and ADS balances prior to the sale of any shares or ADS to
satisfy tax liabilities.
31 December 2019
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan (Bonus deferrals) 24 February 2020 or date of leaving 1 January 2019
Emma Walmsley Shares 182,147 165,445 128,604
Iain Mackay Shares 35,223 – –
Dr Hal Barron ADS 69,452 38,499 –
Simon Dingemans Shares – 122,172 117,782
GSK Annual Report 2019 137Annual report on remuneration continued
Directors’ interests in shares (audited) continued
5) T otal directors’ interests at 24 February 2020 includes shares or ADS which vested in February 2020 due to performance being met under the DABP and
PSP 2017 awards, less those sold to satisfy tax liabilities on the vested amounts.
6) T he following table sets out details of options under the Share Option Plan (SOP) and nil-cost options under the DABP exercised during 2019 by the
Executive Directors.
Number of shares Date of Market price Gain on exercise
Type of award Date of grant under option exercise Grant price at exercise (000)
Emma Walmsley
SOP 22.07.10 137,040 31.10.19 £12.04 £17.76 £784
DABP – deferral 11.02.16 32,596 18.02.19 – £15.76 £514
DABP – matching 11.02.16 19,234 18.02.19 – £15.76 £303
£1,601
Simon Dingemans
DABP – deferral 11.02.16 43,044 18.02.19 – £15.72 £677
DABP – matching 11.02.16 25,398 18.02.19 – £15.72 £399
£1,076
In respect of options under the SOP, the remuneration receivable by an Executive Director is calculated on the date that the options first vest. The
remuneration is the difference between the amount the Executive Director is required to pay to buy the shares and the total value of the shares on the vesting
date. If the Executive Director chooses not to exercise the options on the vesting date, any subsequent increase or decrease in the amount realised will be
due to movements in the share price between the vesting date and the date of exercise. This increase or decrease in value is the result of an investment
decision by the Executive Director and, as such, is not recorded as remuneration.
In respect of nil-cost options under the DABP, the bonus which is deferred by the Director is recorded as remuneration (under Annual bonus) for the year to
which it relates. The gain recorded on exercise of the nil-cost option comprises this remuneration, the total of the amounts received in reinvested dividends
prior to vesting and the gains or losses resulting from movements in the share price between (i) the dates of grant and exercise for the initial bonus amount
deferred; and (ii) the dates of dividend reinvestment and exercise for the reinvested dividends.
For the matching element of the DABP, the remuneration of the Executive Director is recorded in the year that the performance period ends and represents
the number of vested shares multiplied by the share price at vesting. The gain recorded on exercise of the nil-cost option comprises the total of this
remuneration and the gain or loss resulting from the movement in the share price between vesting and exercise. The last matching award was granted in 2017.
For Emma Walmsley:
– The total gain of £783,869 following the exercise of 137,040 options granted under the SOP comprises remuneration of £671,496 in respect of 2013
(the share options were granted on 22 July 2010 and vested on 22 July 2013 with a vesting price of £16.94) and an investment gain of £112,373.
– The gain of £513,713 recorded following the exercise of the 32,596 nil-cost options relating to the deferral of bonus earned in respect of 2015 comprises
remuneration of £374,400 recorded in 2015 as Annual bonus and a net gain of £139,313 relating to the reinvestment of dividends prior to vesting and
movements in the share price between grant and dividend reinvestment dates and the exercise date.
– The gain of £303,128 recorded following the exercise of the 19,234 nil-cost options relating to the DABP matching award comprises remuneration of
£301,204 recorded in 2018 in relation to the DABP and an investment gain of £1,924 relating to the movement in the share price between the vesting
and exercise dates.
For Simon Dingemans:
– The gain of £676,652 recorded following the exercise of the 43,044 nil-cost options relating to the deferral of bonus earned in respect of 2015 comprises
remuneration of £494,425 recorded in 2015 as Annual bonus and a net gain of £182,227 relating to the reinvestment of dividends prior to vesting and
movements in the share price between grant and dividend reinvestment dates and the exercise date.
– The gain of £399,257 recorded following the exercise of the 25,398 nil-cost options relating to the DABP matching award comprises remuneration of
£397,733 recorded in 2018 in relation to the DABP and an investment gain of £1,524 relating to the movement in the share price between the vesting
and exercise dates.
7) For Non-Executive Directors, total interests include shares or ADS received as part or all of their fees under the Non-Executive Directors’ Share Allocation
Plan. Dividends received on shares or ADS under the plan during 2019 and January 2020 were converted into shares or ADS as at 5 February 2020.
8) S imon Dingemans retired from the Board on 8 May 2019. Sir Philip Hampton retired from the Board on 31 August 2019.
138 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Annual report on remuneration continued
Directors and Senior Management
Further information is provided on compensation and interests of Directors and Senior Management as a group (the group). For this
purpose, the group is defined as the Non-Executive and Executive Directors, other members of the CET and the Company
Secretary. For the financial year 2019, the following table sets out aggregate remuneration for the group for the periods during
which they served in that capacity.
Remuneration for 2019 £
Total compensation paid 28,423,288
Aggregate increase in accrued pension benefits (net of inflation) 115,693
Aggregate payments to defined contribution schemes 1,196,714
During 2019, members of the group were awarded shares and ADS under the company’s various LTI plans, as set out in the table
below. To align the interests of Senior Management with those of shareholders, Executive Directors and CET members are required
to build and maintain significant holdings of shares in GSK over time. CET members are required to hold shares to an equivalent
multiple of two times their base salary, and must continue to satisfy these share ownership requirements for a minimum of 12
months after leaving GSK.
Awards Dividend reinvestment awards
Awarded during 2019 Shares ADS Shares ADS
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan (matching awards) – – 7,457 443
Performance Share Plan 1,404,927 468,854 208,176 45,874
Deferred Investment Awards(1,2) 20,100 – 5,964 89
Share Value Plan(2) 19,400 – – –
At 24 February 2020, the group and their PCAs had the following interests in shares and ADS of the company. Interests awarded
under the various LTI plans are described in Note 44 to the financial statements, ‘Employee share schemes’ on page 244.
Interests at 24 February 2020 Shares ADS
Owned 1,426,701 181,616
Unexercised options 7,203 –
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan 431,934 122,793
Performance Share Plan 4,775,844 1,482,055
Deferred Investment Awards(1,2) 132,129 6,320
Share Value Plan(2) 57,900 –
(1) N otional shares and ADS.
(2) E xecutive Directors are not eligible to receive Deferred Investment Awards or participate in the Share Value Plan. The Deferred Investment Award granted to Emma Walmsley
which vested during 2019 was granted prior to her becoming an Executive Director.
GSK Annual Report 2019 1392020 Remuneration policy summary
Remuneration policy review
Our current Remuneration policy (policy) was approved by our – Create shareholder value; and
shareholders at our Annual General Meeting on 4 May 2017
– Drive the success of the company for the benefit of patients,
receiving a 95.2% vote in favour. As required under the
customers and other key stakeholders.
Remuneration regulations, shareholders are being asked to
approve a new policy at our Annual General Meeting on 6 May In addition, changes to the policy have been made to ensure its
2020, which it is intended will apply for the next three years. implementation will support the delivery of business strategy
whilst delivering a clear, understandable and appropriately
During 2019, the Committee considered the policy. The
competitive package to attract, retain and motivate executive
decision-making process that the Committee followed for its
talent.
determination, review and implementation of the proposed new
policy is set out in the Committee Chair’s statement on pages The Committee developed the new policy for Executive and
116 and 117. Non-Executive Directors in the context of its oversight of wider
workforce pay, however, it did not consult with employees on
The Committee’s review of the policy sought to ensure that it
the new policy. It consulted with our largest shareholders in
continues to:
respect of the proposed changes and took shareholders’
– Be aligned with the company’s business priorities, culture feedback into account when finalising the new policy.
shift, wider workforce pay policies and emerging best
The table below provides an overview of the main changes
practice;
that are proposed in respect of the new policy. The full policy
that shareholders are asked to approve is set out on pages
141 to 150.
Remuneration element Proposed changes to policy Rationale for the change
Pension – Any new Executive Director will receive a pension Alignment with shareholders:
aligned to the broader workforce. Contribution levels Alignment with the 2018 Code and emerging market
for the current UK Executive Directors will be similarly practice.
aligned from January 2023.
Extension to post cessation share – 50% of SOR for Executive Directors to be held for Alignment with shareholders:
ownership requirements the second year post cessation of role. Alignment with the 2018 Code and emerging market
practice.
LTI Quantum – A reduction in the maximum award level permitted (to Pay for performance:
600%) and an increase in the award level to be We received feedback from some shareholders that the
applied in the case of the CEO (to 575%). maximum award level permitted under the policy should
be reduced from the previous 650%. The increase in the
target award to the CEO reflects strong performance in
the role by Emma Walmsley since her appointment in
April 2017.
Malus and Clawback – The definition of a triggering event is expanded to Alignment with market practice:
include material misstatement of results and serious It has become more common for FTSE 100 companies
reputational damage. to apply a broader definition of a triggering event.
Loss of office payment policy – The 20 years’ service condition for ‘termination by Simplification and flexibility:
mutual agreement’ has been removed. To simplify the policy and to allow greater flexibility for the
Board to manage succession proactively.
Non-Executive Directors’ fees – Introduction of a fee (£40,000 for 2020) for the Compensation for additional duties:
designated Workforce Engagement Director with To reflect the work involved in carrying out this new role
effect from 1 January 2020. which is equivalent to that of a Committee Chair.
– Authority is also sought for a Non-Executive Director To appropriately remunerate Non-Executive Directors for
(other than the Chairman) to be remunerated up to their work.
the amount paid to Committee Chairs (£40,000 for
Simplification and alignment with shareholders:
2020) for undertaking additional duties in exceptional
To allow the direct reinvestment of fees into shares
or unforeseen circumstances requiring a significant
or ADS.
additional time commitment.
– Non-Executive Directors will continue to be required
to invest at least 25% of their total net fees in shares
or ADS of the company.
140 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Remuneration policy report
Future policy table
Subject to shareholder approval at the company’s Annual General Meeting on 6 May 2020, the Remuneration policy for each
remuneration element will be as outlined in the table below.
Salary No change
Purpose and link to strategy Opportunity
To provide a core reward for the role. There is no formal maximum limit and, ordinarily, salary increases
will be broadly in line with the average increases for the wider
Set at a level appropriate to secure and retain high calibre
GSK workforce.
individuals needed to deliver the Group’s strategic priorities.
However, increases may be higher to reflect a change in the
Operation
scope of the individual’s role, responsibilities or experience.
Individual’s role, experience, performance and independently
Salary adjustments may also reflect wider market conditions in
sourced data for relevant comparator groups considered when
the geography in which the individual operates.
determining salary levels.
Details of current salary levels are set out in the Annual report
Salary increases typically take effect in the first quarter of
on remuneration.
each year.
Performance measures
Salaries are normally paid in the currency of the Executive
The overall performance of the individual is a key consideration
Director’s home country.
when determining salary increases.
Benefits No change
Purpose and link to strategy Where an Executive Director is based outside the UK, but is
Levels are set to recruit and retain high calibre individuals to required to travel to the UK to fulfil the responsibilities of their
execute the business strategy. role and to attend Board Meetings, they may be subject to tax
on their business travel expenses to and from the UK and on the
Operation
provision of any accommodation in the UK. Although in reality it
Executive Directors are eligible to receive benefits in line with
represents a business expense, the tax treatment requires that
the policy for other employees which may vary by location.
their travel and accommodation expenses are then included as
These include, but are not limited to, car allowances, healthcare,
benefits. Because of the business context, the tax liabilities will
life assurance/death in service (where not provided as part of
be covered by the company on a grossed-up basis.
the individual’s pension arrangements), personal financial advice
and contractual post-retirement benefits. In line with the policy Benefit provision is tailored to reflect market practice in the
for other employees, Executive Directors may be eligible to geography in which the Executive Director is based and
receive overseas relocation allowances and international different policies may apply if current or future Executive
transfer-related benefits when required. Executive Directors Directors are based in a different country.
in the UK are also eligible to participate in all-employee share
Opportunity
schemes (e.g. Share Save and Share Reward Plan), under
There is no formal maximum limit as benefits costs can fluctuate
which they are subject to the same terms as all other
depending on changes in provider cost and individual
employees.
circumstances.
In order to recognise the high business travel requirements of
Details of current benefits and costs are set out in the Annual
the role, Executive Directors are also entitled to car travel and
report on remuneration.
exceptionally may be accompanied by their spouse/partner on
Performance measure
business trips. Other benefits include expenses incurred in the
None
ordinary course of business, which are deemed to be taxable
benefits on the individual.
GSK Annual Report 2019 141Remuneration policy report continued
Future policy table continued
Pension Change
Purpose and link to strategy Any new Executive Directors in the UK will receive from date
Pension arrangements provide a competitive level of retirement of appointment:
income. – 7% of base salary contribution to defined contribution plan
and further 3% in matched contributions subject to any
Operation
relevant cap and in line with implementation principles for
Pension arrangements are structured in accordance with the
other members of the plan; and
plans operated in the country in which the individual is likely to
– 7% of base salary as a cash payment in lieu of pension
retire. Where the individual chooses not to become a member
contribution for the portion above the relevant cap;
of the pension plan, cash in lieu of the relevant pension
or
contribution is paid instead. Executive Directors in the UK are
– 7% of base salary as a cash payment in lieu of pension
entitled either to join the defined contribution pension plan or
contribution.
to receive a cash payment in lieu of pension contribution.
US(1):
Where an individual is a member of a GSK legacy defined
– Cash Balance and Supplemental Cash Balance pension
benefit plan, a defined contribution plan or an alternative
plans, providing annual contributions of 38% of base salary,
pension plan arrangement and is subsequently appointed
split between the two plans as appropriate.
to the Board, he or she may remain a member of that plan.
– GSK 401(k) plan and the Executive Supplemental Savings Plan
Opportunity (ESSP) with core contributions of 2% of salary and bonus(2)
The policy for all current Executive Directors is: and matched contributions of 4% of salary and bonus(2).
UK: Any new Executive Directors in the US will receive:
– 20% of base salary contribution to defined contribution plan – Cash Balance and Supplemental Cash Balance pension
and further 5% in matched contributions subject to any plans, providing annual contributions of 5% of base salary
relevant cap and in line with implementation principles for and bonus, split between the two plans as appropriate.
other members of the plan; and – GSK 401(k) plan and the ESSP with core contributions of
– 20% of base salary as a cash payment in lieu of pension 2% of salary and bonus(2) and matched contributions of 4%
contribution for the portion above the relevant cap; of salary and bonus(2).
or Global:
– 20% of base salary as a cash payment in lieu of pension – Eligible for appropriate equivalent arrangement not in excess
contribution. of the US/UK arrangements.
From 1 January 2023, any current UK Executive Directors who Performance measures
are still in role will have their pension arrangements aligned to None.
new Executive Directors’ arrangements as follows.
(1) I n the event of any change to the plans operated in the US, a similar value would be
provided under any successor arrangements introduced within the market.
(2) L ess bonus deferred under the DABP.
Annual bonus No change
Purpose and link to strategy The Committee may apply judgement in making appropriate
To incentivise and recognise execution of the business strategy adjustments to bonus outcomes to ensure they reflect
on an annual basis. underlying business performance. Clawback and/or malus
provisions apply as described on page 144.
Rewards the achievement of stretching annual financial and
strategic business targets and delivery of personal objectives. Opportunity
The maximum bonus opportunity for Executive Directors is
Operation
200% of salary. For threshold performance, the bonus pay-out
Financial, operational and business targets are set at the start of
on the financial measure will be nil. For target performance, the
the year by the Committee and bonus levels are determined by
bonus payout will be 50% of the maximum opportunity.
the Committee based on performance against those targets.
Performance measures
Individual objectives are set at the start of the year by the
Based on a combination of financial targets and individual/
Committee and performance against those objectives is
strategic performance objectives, with the majority of the bonus
assessed by the Committee.
assessed against the financial measures. The weighting
Executive Directors are required to defer 50% of any bonus between different measures will be determined each year
earned into shares, or ADS as appropriate, for three years. according to business priorities. Further details, including the
Deferred bonus shares are eligible for dividend equivalents measures to be used in the financial year, are provided in the
up to the date of vesting. Annual report on remuneration.
142 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Remuneration policy report continued
Future policy table continued
Selection of annual bonus measures
The annual bonus is designed to drive the achievement of The majority of the annual bonus opportunity is based on a
GSK’s annual financial and strategic business targets and formal review of performance against stretching financial targets
the delivery of personal objectives. with the remainder of the bonus subject to a balanced
scorecard of strategic and individual targets which are aligned
The annual bonus financial targets are set by reference to
to the company’s key objectives for that financial year.
internal budget and external consensus targets.
Performance Share Plan (PSP) Change
Purpose and link to strategy Clawback and/or malus provisions apply as described on
To incentivise and recognise delivery of the longer term page 144.
business priorities, financial growth and increases in
Opportunity
shareholder value compared to other pharmaceutical
The normal maximum award limits that may be granted under
companies.
the PSP to an individual in any one year are set out in the table
In addition, to provide alignment with shareholder interests, below:
a retention element, to encourage long-term shareholding % of salary
and discourage excessive risk taking. CEO 600
Operation CFO 400
Conditional awards are made annually with vesting dependent Other Executive Directors 500
on the achievement of performance conditions over three years
Performance measures
and are subject to an additional two-year holding period. PSP
Based on a combination of financial, share price related and
targets are set by reference to internal budget and external
strategic performance conditions which are aligned to the
consensus targets.
company’s strategic plan. For all measures*, 25% of awards
Awards are eligible for dividend equivalents up to the date of will vest at threshold performance. Further details, including
vesting and release. the performance targets attached to the PSP in respect of each
year, and the weightings of the targets for the 2020 PSP awards
The Committee may adjust the formulaic vesting outcome
are provided in the Annual report on remuneration.
(either up or down) to ensure that the overall outcome reflects
underlying business performance over the vesting period. * W e announced in the 2018 Annual Report, that we were reducing the
threshold vesting level for our TSR measure to 25%, in order to align it
with our other performance measures.
Selection of long-term incentive measures
The Committee selects performance measures which focus Any major adjustment in the calculation of performance
Executive Directors’ long-term remuneration on the delivery of measures will be disclosed to shareholders on vesting.
GSK’s key strategic priorities over the longer term. In addition The Audit & Risk Committee chair and other members,
to setting robust targets, the Committee has implemented a who are also members of the Remuneration Committee,
number of safeguards to ensure the targets are met in a provide input on the Audit & Risk Committee’s review of
sustainable way and performance reflects genuine achievement the Group’s performance and oversight of any risk factors
against targets and therefore represents the delivery of value relevant to remuneration decisions.
for shareholders.
Details of the rationale behind the performance measures
For each performance measure, the impact of any acquisition selected and how they are calculated are set out in the
or divestment will be quantified and adjusted for after the event. Annual report on remuneration.
Share Ownership Requirements Change
To align the interests of Executive Directors with those of As a minimum, Executive Directors are required to maintain
shareholders, they are required to build and maintain significant 100% of their share ownership requirements to the end of
holdings of shares in GSK over time. The requirements for each the first year following retirement from the company and 50%
Executive Director are as follows: to the end of the second year.
% salary
CEO 650
Other Executive Directors 300
GSK Annual Report 2019 143Remuneration policy report continued
Future policy table continued
Clawback and malus Expansion of definition of triggering event
In the event of a ‘triggering event’ (i.e. significant misconduct by In respect of each financial year, the Remuneration Committee
way of violation of regulation, law, a significant GSK policy, such will disclose whether it (or the Recoupment Committee) has
as the Code of Conduct, or a material misstatement of results, exercised clawback or malus. Disclosure will only be made
or serious reputational damage), the company will have the when the matter has been subject to public reports of
ability to claw back up to three years’ annual and deferred misconduct, where it has been fully resolved, where it is legally
bonuses as well as vested and unvested LTIs. In addition, in permissible to disclose and where it can be made without
respect of PSP awards made from 2020, if a participant is unduly prejudicing the company and therefore shareholders.
subject to an investigation, then the vesting of their awards
Additionally, where there has been continuity of responsibility
may be delayed until the outcome of that investigation.
between initiation of an adverse event and its emergence as a
A separate Recoupment Committee has been established to problem, the adverse event should be taken into account in
investigate relevant claims of misconduct. The Recoupment assessing annual bonus awards and LTI vesting levels in the
Committee exercises this authority for the wider employee base. year the problem is identified and for future periods. The
It comprises of senior executives with relevant oversight and Remuneration Committee (or Recoupment Committee) may
appropriate experience, including the Senior Vice President, make appropriate adjustments to individual annual bonuses as
Global Ethics and Compliance, and the Senior Vice President well as grant and vesting levels of LTI awards to reflect this.
& General Counsel.
Approach to recruitment remuneration No change
The Committee determines the remuneration package of new For any internal appointments, entitlements under existing
Executive Directors on a case-by-case basis depending on remuneration elements will continue, including pension
the role, the market from which they will operate and their entitlements and any outstanding awards. However, where
experience. Total remuneration levels will be set by reference not already the case, internal appointments will be required
to a relevant pay comparator group and, where appropriate, to move to Executive Director contractual terms, including
will allow for future development in the role. termination provisions.
It is expected that new Executive Directors will participate The Committee is mindful of the sensitivity relating to
in short and long-term incentive plans on the same basis as recruitment packages and, in particular, the ‘buying out’ of
existing directors. However, in exceptional circumstances, rights relating to previous employment. It will therefore seek
the Committee reserves the flexibility to set the incentive limit to minimise such arrangements. However, in certain
for a new Executive Director at up to an additional 50% of the circumstances, to enable the recruitment of exceptional talent,
existing limits. the Committee may determine that such arrangements are in
the best interests of the company and its shareholders. Such
The Committee retains this flexibility in recognition of the high
arrangements will, where possible, be on a like-for-like basis
levels of variable pay in GSK’s global pharmaceutical
with the forfeited remuneration terms. Arrangements will
competitors. However, the Committee will only use this flexibility
therefore vary depending on the plans and arrangements put
when it is considered to be in the best interests of the company
in place by the previous employer and may be in the form of
and its investors.
cash or shares and may or may not be subject to performance
Pension arrangements for any external recruit as an Executive conditions. Explanations will be provided where payments are
Director will be as set out in the Remuneration policy table on made as compensation for previous remuneration forfeited.
page 142.
The remuneration arrangements for any newly appointed
Other benefits will be provided in line with the policy for existing Executive Director will be disclosed as soon as practicable
Executive Directors. after the appointment.
Where required to meet business needs, relocation support
will be provided in line with company policy.
144 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Remuneration policy report continued
Future policy table continued
Loss of office payment policy Change
The company does not have a policy of fixed term contracts. Notice period on termination by the employing company or the
Generally, contracts for new appointments will expire in line with Executive Director is 12 calendar months.
the applicable policy on retirement age, which since 2009 has
The ability to impose a 12-month non-compete period (and a
been 65.
non-solicitation restriction) on an Executive Director is
Contracts for existing Executive Directors will expire on the considered important by the company to have the ability to
dates shown on page 128. protect the Group’s intellectual property and staff. In light of this,
the Committee believes that it would not be appropriate to
provide for mitigation in the contracts.
Termination of employment
In the event that an Executive Director’s employment with the company terminates, the following policies and payments will apply.
Element of
Remuneration Loss of office payment policy
Termination Termination by notice: 12 months’ annual salary payable on termination by the company (pro-rated where part of the notice period is worked).
payment No termination payment is made in respect of any part of a notice period that extends beyond the contract expiry date.
A bonus element is not normally included in the termination payment. However, the terms of the contracts seek to balance commercial
imperatives and best practice.
Redundancy: As above, for termination by notice. In the UK, only statutory redundancy pay will apply. In the US, general severance policy does
not apply.
Retirement, death and ill-health, injury or disability: No termination payment.
LTI awards PSP awards are governed by the plan rules as approved by shareholders.
The following provisions will normally apply:
Termination by notice: Unvested awards will lapse.
Redundancy, retirement, death, ill-health, injury, disability or any other reason: Generally, awards will continue to vest over the original
timescales subject to performance and pro-rated for time.
In the event of a change of control, PSP awards will vest, taking into account performance to date and normally taking into account the
proportion of the performance period that has elapsed. Alternatively, the awards may be exchanged for new awards.
Annual bonus Termination by notice by individual: If an individual serves notice and the termination date falls before 31 December, the bonus is forfeited.
Termination by notice by the company, redundancy, retirement, death, ill-health, injury or disability: If the termination date falls during the
financial year, eligible for pro-rated on-target bonus (if employed on 31 December, bonus payable based on actual results).
Mandatorily DABP deferred bonus awards in respect of mandatorily deferred bonus amounts are governed by the plan rules as approved by shareholders.
deferred The following provisions will normally apply:
bonus under Termination for gross misconduct: Generally, unvested awards will lapse
the DABP
Any other reason: Generally, awards will vest in full on the original vesting date.
In the event of a change of control, awards will vest or may be exchanged for new awards.
Benefits Generally, benefits will continue to apply until the termination date. The Committee may make payments in connection with an existing legal
obligation or in respect of any claim related to the cessation of employment. This may include fees for outplacement assistance, legal and/or
professional advice.
Termination by notice by the company and retirement (US executives): In line with the policy applicable to US senior executives, they may
become eligible, at a future date, to receive continuing medical and dental insurance after termination/retirement.
Termination by mutual agreement
In certain circumstances, it can be in the best interests of the company for the Board to manage proactively succession planning and the development of
the senior talent pipeline. In such circumstances, the Board may therefore agree that an Executive’s departure will be by mutual agreement. In order for this
to apply, the Committee will need to be satisfied that the Executive has demonstrated performance in line with expectations and where required they should
have contributed to an orderly succession. In the case of an Executive Director, they would then be treated as a ‘good leaver’ for the purposes of GSK’s
long-term incentive plans. If the termination date falls during the financial year, they would be eligible for a pro-rated on-target bonus and if they are
employed on 31 December, the bonus payable would be based on actual results.
GSK Annual Report 2019 145Remuneration policy report continued
Loss of office payment policy continued
The Committee does not anticipate the exercise of discretion Where an Executive Director leaves the company, the
provided by the PSP and DABP plan rules in respect of Committee will carry out an assessment of the individual’s
termination payments in a manner which would benefit an performance and conduct over the time in role. If it is
Executive Director. However, there may be unforeseen determined that the individual’s performance or conduct was
circumstances where this is in the best interests of the company contrary to the legitimate expectations of the company, the
and its shareholders. Where it is necessary to exercise Committee reserves the right to apply appropriate mechanisms
discretion, explanations will be provided. such as clawback or reduction or lapsing of outstanding
incentive awards (malus), to ensure that any termination
payments are in the best interests of the company and its
shareholders (see page 144).
Differences between remuneration policy for Executive Directors
and other employees
When setting remuneration levels for the Executive Directors, While employees are not formally consulted in respect of the
the Committee considers the prevailing market conditions, Remuneration policy, Urs Rohner, the Committee Chair, meets
the competitive environment (through comparison with the with senior HR representatives from across the business to
remuneration of executives at companies of similar size, review employee feedback. Dr Vivienne Cox, an Independent
complexity and international reach) and the positioning and Non-Executive Director, engages with employees on various
relativities of pay and employment conditions across the topics, including remuneration, in her role as Workforce
broader GSK workforce. Engagement Director.
In particular, the Committee considers the range of base In the wider organisation, we have aligned our performance
salary rises for the workforces of those parts of GSK where and reward systems with our Innovation, Performance and Trust
the Executive Directors are employed. This is considered to priorities and our Values and Expectations. Our performance
be the most relevant comparison as these populations reflect system evaluates employees on both ‘what’ they need to do
most closely the economic environments encountered by the and ‘how’ they do it. Also, for our most senior people we
individuals. The same principles apply to the Remuneration disincentivise unethical working practices using a clawback
policy for Executive Directors and other employees although mechanism that allows us to recover performance-related pay.
the remuneration offered to Executive Directors under this
policy has a stronger emphasis on performance-related pay
than that offered to other employees of the Group.
– Salary and benefits (including pension) are tailored to the
local market.
– The annual bonus plan applies to the wider employee
population and is based on business performance.
– A combination of performance-related and restricted share
plans apply to the wider employee population.
– All-employee share plans are available to employees in the
UK, including the HM Revenue & Customs approved UK
Share Save and Share Reward Plans.
146 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Remuneration policy report continued
Scenarios for future total remuneration
The charts opposite provide illustrations of the future total
remuneration for each of the Executive Directors in respect of Emma Walmsley (£000)
the remuneration opportunity granted to each of them in 2020 £14.37m
under the proposed new 2020 policy. A range of potential 14,000 24%
outcomes is provided for each Executive Director and the
underlying assumptions are set out below. 12,000
£10.93m
48%
All scenarios: 63%
10,000
– 2020 base salary has been used.
– 2019 benefits figures have been used, i.e. based on actual 8,000
amounts received in 2019, and for Hal Barron the 2019 £6.28m
pension figures. 6,000 55%
– Pension for Emma Walmsley and Iain Mackay are based upon
their 2020 salaries. 4,000 22% 17%
19%
– The amounts shown under value of PSP awards are based 2,000 £1.63m
upon the relevant multiples for 2020, including the proposed 100% 26% 15% 11%
uplift to Emma Walmsley (575% of salary). They do not 0
Fixed Expected Maximum Maximum with
include amounts in respect of dividends reinvested and do share price
not factor in changes in share price over the vesting period increase
(except as described below).
Fixed:
– Excludes Pay for performance, i.e. no Annual bonus would be Iain Mackay(1) (£000)
paid and PSP awards would not vest.
Expected: 10,000
– Includes Fixed pay. £8.16m
8,000 21%
– For the Annual bonus, it is assumed that target performance
£6.41m
is achieved. 6,000 54% 43%
– For PSP awards, amounts reflect 50% vesting levels.
4,000 £3.80m
Maximum:
46%
– It is assumed that the Annual bonus would be payable at the 27% 21%
2,000
maximum level and that the awards under the PSP would vest £1.19m 23%
100% 31% 18% 15%
in full.
0
Maximum with 50% share price increase: Fixed Expected Maximum Maximum with
share price
– All elements are the same as Maximum but assuming a 50% increase
increase in share price.
(1) Appointed with effect from 14 January 2019.
Dr Hal Barron ($000)
$20.67m
20,000 22%
$16.21m
16,000 55% 43%
12,000
$9.95m
45%
8,000
22% 17%
4,000 $3.70m 18%
100% 37% 23% 18%
0
Fixed Expected Maximum Maximum with
share price
increase
Fixed pay Annual bonus PSP 50% share price increase
GSK Annual Report 2019 147Remuneration policy report continued
Non-Executive Director remuneration policy 2020
Non-Executive Directors’ fees Change
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation
Chairman’s fees To provide an inclusive flat rate fee that is There is no formal maximum. However, fees are reviewed annually and set by reference
competitive with those paid by other to a review of the Chairman’s performance and independently sourced market data.
companies of equivalent size and
The Committee is responsible for evaluating and making recommendations to the Board
complexity subject to the limits contained
on the fees payable to the Chairman. The Chairman does not participate in discussions in
in GSK’s Articles of Association.
respect of his fees.
Fees are paid in cash. The Chairman is required to invest at least 25% of his total net
fees in shares or ADS of the company.
Basic fees As above There is no formal maximum. As with the Chairman, fees are reviewed annually and set by
reference to independently sourced data.
The Chairman and CEO are responsible for evaluating and making recommendations to
the Board on the fees payable to the company’s Non-Executive Directors.
Fees are paid in cash. Directors are required to invest at least 25% of their total net fees
in shares or ADS of the company. The shares or ADS are delivered or released following
retirement from the Board.
Supplemental To compensate Non-Executive Directors Additional fees for the Senior Independent Director, Committee Chairs, Science and
fees (other than the Chairman) for taking on Medical Experts, the Workforce Engagement Director role and intercontinental travel.
additional Board responsibilities or
The company has the authority to pay an additional fee, up to the equivalent of the
undertaking intercontinental travel.
Committee Chair supplement (£40,000 with effect from 1 January 2020) to a
Non-Executive Director, should the company require significant additional time
commitment in exceptional or unforseen circumstances.
Benefits To facilitate execution of responsibilities Travel and subsistence costs for Non-Executive Directors are incurred in the normal
and duties required by the role. course of business in relation to meetings on Board and Committee matters and other
GSK-hosted events. For overseas-based Non-Executive Directors, this includes travel to
meetings in the UK. In the event it is necessary for business purposes, whilst not normal
practice, Non-Executive Directors may be accompanied by their spouse or partner to
these meetings or events. The costs associated with the above are all met by the
company and, in some instances, they are deemed to be taxable and therefore treated
as benefits for the Non-Executive Director.
Approach to recruitment remuneration No change
The following policy and principles apply to the roles of Non-Executive Directors
Chairman and Non-Executive Director. Fee levels for new Non-Executive Directors will be set on the
same basis as for existing Non-Executive Directors of the
Chairman
company. Subject to local laws and regulations, fees will be
Fees will be set at a level that is competitive with those paid by
paid partly in shares.
other companies of equivalent size and complexity. Fees will be
paid partly in shares. In the event of a Non-Executive Director with a different role and
responsibilities being appointed, fee levels will be benchmarked
and set by reference to comparable roles in companies of
equivalent size and complexity.
Loss of office No change
The Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to receive any payments in respect of fees for loss of office when
they retire or step down from the Board.
148 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Remuneration policy report continued
Operation and scope of Remuneration policy
The Remuneration policy (Policy) is set out on pages 141 to 150 (ii) before the Policy came into effect, provided that the terms
of the 2019 Annual Report and it is intended that the Policy for of the payment were consistent with the shareholder-approved
GSK’s Executive and Non-Executive Directors will operate for a Remuneration policy in force at the time they were agreed; or
period of three years from the date of approval at the company’s
(iii) at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of
Annual General Meeting on 6 May 2020.
the company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment
The Committee wrote the Policy principally in relation to the was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director
remuneration arrangements for the Executive Directors, whilst of the company. For these purposes ‘payments’ includes the
taking into account the possible recruitment of a replacement Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in
or an additional Executive Director during the operation of the relation to an award over shares or ADS, the terms of the
Policy. The Committee intends the Policy to operate for the payment are ‘agreed’ at the time the award is granted.
period set out above in its entirety. However, it may after due
Performance Share Plan and Deferred Annual Bonus Plan
consideration seek to change the Policy during this period,
awards are subject to the terms of the relevant plan rules under
but only if it believes it is appropriate to do so for the long-term
which the award has been granted. The Committee may adjust
success of the company, after consultation with shareholders
or amend awards only in accordance with the provisions of the
and having sought shareholder approval at a general meeting.
plan rules. This includes making adjustments to reflect one-off
The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration corporate events, such as a change in the company’s capital
payments and/or payments for loss of office (including structure.
exercising any discretions available to it in connection with
The Committee may also make minor amendments to the Policy
such payments) notwithstanding that they are not in line with
(for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes
the Policy where the terms of the payment were agreed:
or to take account of a change in legislation) without obtaining
(i) before the AGM on 7 May 2014 (the date the company’s shareholder approval for such amendments.
first shareholder-approved Directors’ remuneration policy came
Statement of consideration of shareholder views
into effect);
The Committee engages in regular dialogue with shareholders
and holds annual meetings with GSK’s largest investors to
discuss and take feedback on its Remuneration policy and
governance matters.
GSK Annual Report 2019 149Remuneration policy report continued
Basis of preparation
The Annual report on remuneration has been prepared in The Annual report on remuneration has been approved
accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and The Large and by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by:
Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports)
(Amendment) Regulations 2013 (the Regulations). In
accordance with the Regulations, the following parts of the
Urs Rohner
Annual report on remuneration are subject to audit: total Remuneration Committee Chairman
remuneration figures for Executive Directors including further
3 March 2020
details for each element of remuneration (salary, benefits,
pension, annual bonus and long-term incentive awards);
Non-Executive Directors’ fees and emoluments received in the
year; Directors’ interests in shares, including interests in GSK
share plans; payments to past Directors; payments for loss
of office; and share ownership requirements and holdings,
for which the opinion thereon is expressed on page 162. The
remaining sections of the Annual report on remuneration are
not subject to audit nor are the pages referred to from within
the audited sections.
150 GSK Annual Report 2019SSttrraatteeggiicc rreeppoorrtt
GGoovveerrnnaannccee aanndd rreemmuunneerraattiioonn
FFiinnaanncciiaall ssttaatteemmeennttss
IInnvveessttoorr iinnffoorrmmaattiioonn
Financial
statements
In this section
Directors’ statement of responsibilities 152
Independent Auditor’s report 154
Financial statements 166
Notes to the financial statements 170
Financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc
prepared under UK GAAP 252
GGSSKK AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22001199 115511Directors’ statement of responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting
the Remuneration report and the Group and parent company records that are sufficient to show and explain the company’s
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time
regulations. the financial position of the Group and to enable them to ensure
that the Group financial statements and the Remuneration
UK company law requires the Directors to prepare financial
report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of
statements for each financial year. The Directors are required
the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding
to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with
the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted
for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
by the European Union. In preparing the Group financial
statements, the Directors have also elected to comply with The Group financial statements for the year ended 31
IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards December 2019, comprising principal statements and
Board (IASB). The Directors have elected to prepare the parent supporting notes, are set out in the ‘Financial statements’
company financial statements in accordance with United on pages 166 to 251 of this report. The parent company
Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law (United financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2019,
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice). Under comprising the balance sheet and the statement of changes in
company law the Directors must not approve the financial equity for the year ended 31 December 2019 and supporting
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and notes, are set out on pages 252 to 256.
fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and its profit or
The responsibilities of the auditor in relation to the financial
loss for that period.
statements are set out in the Independent Auditor’s report on
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are required pages 154 to 165.
to:
The financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2019
– select suitable accounting policies and then apply them are included in the Annual Report, which is published in printed
consistently; form and made available on our website. The Directors are
responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Annual
– make judgements and accounting estimates that are
Report on our website in accordance with UK legislation
reasonable and prudent;
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial
– state that the Group financial statements comply with IFRS statements. Access to the website is available from outside
as adopted by the European Union and IFRS as issued by the UK, where comparable legislation may be different.
the IASB, subject to any material departures disclosed and
Each of the current Directors, whose names and functions are
explained in the Group financial statements;
listed in the Corporate Governance section of the Annual
– state with regard to the parent company financial statements Report 2019 confirms that, to the best of his or her knowledge:
that applicable UK Accounting Standards have been
– the Group financial statements, which have been prepared
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and
in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and IFRS
explained in the parent company financial statements; and
as issued by the IASB, give a true and fair view of the assets,
– prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group; and
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the
– the Strategic report and risk sections of the Annual Report,
parent company will continue in business.
which represent the management report, include a fair review
of the development and performance of the business and the
position of the company and the Group taken as a whole,
together with a description of the principal risks and
uncertainties that it faces.
152 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Directors’ statement of responsibilities continued
Disclosure of information to auditor The 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code
The Directors in office at the date of this Annual Report have The Board considers that GlaxoSmithKline plc applies the
each confirmed that: principles and complies with the provisions of the UK Corporate
Governance Code maintained by the Financial Reporting
– so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit
Council, as described in the Corporate Governance section
information of which the company’s auditor is unaware; and
on pages 75 to 114. The Board further considers that the
– he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and
taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any understandable, and provides the information necessary for
relevant audit information and to establish that the company’s shareholders to assess the Group’s position and performance,
auditor is aware of that information. business model and strategy.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in As required by the Financial Conduct Authority’s Listing Rules,
accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the the auditor has considered the Directors’ statement of
Companies Act 2006. compliance in relation to those points of the UK Corporate
Governance Code which are specified for their review.
Going concern basis
Pages 50 to 74 contain information on the performance of Annual Report
the Group, its financial position, cash flows, net debt position The Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2019,
and borrowing facilities. Further information, including Treasury comprising the Report of the Directors, the Remuneration
risk management policies, exposures to market and credit risk report, the Financial statements and Additional information
and hedging activities, is given in Note 43 to the financial for investors, has been approved by the Board of Directors
statements, ‘Financial instruments and related disclosures’. and signed on its behalf by
Having assessed the principal risks and other matters
considered in connection with the viability statement, the
Sir Jonathan Symonds
Directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern
Chairman
basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
3 March 2020
Internal control
The Board, through the Audit & Risk Committee, has reviewed
the assessment of risks and the internal control framework that
operates in GSK and has considered the effectiveness of the
system of internal control in operation in the Group for the year
covered by this Annual Report and up to the date of its approval
by the Board of Directors.
GSK Annual Report 2019 153Independent Auditor’s report to the members
of GlaxoSmithKline plc
Report on the audit of the financial statements
1. Opinion 2. Basis for opinion
In our opinion: We conducted our audit in accordance with International
Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and applicable law.
– The financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc (the ‘Parent
Our responsibilities under those standards are further
company’) and its subsidiaries (the ‘Group’) give a true and
described in the auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of
fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the Parent
the financial statements section of our report.
company’s affairs as at 31 December 2019 and of the
Group’s profit for the year then ended; We are independent of the Group and the Parent company in
accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our
– The Group financial statements have been properly prepared
audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the Financial
in accordance with International Financial Reporting
Reporting Council’s (the ‘FRC’s’) Ethical Standard as applied to
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union and
listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other
IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards
ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
Board (IASB);
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRC’s
– The Parent company financial statements have been properly Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Parent
prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally company, as noted in the Audit & Risk Committee report within
Accepted Accounting Practice including FRS 101 ‘Reduced the Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report on
Disclosure Framework’; and page 104. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained
– The financial statements have been prepared in accordance is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as 3. Audit scope and execution
regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS
Regulation. We structured our approach to the audit to reflect how the
Group is organised as well as ensuring our audit was both
We have audited the financial statements which comprise the:
effective and risk focused. Our audit approach can be
Group summarised into the following areas that enabled us to obtain
the evidence required to form an opinion on the Group and
– Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2019;
Parent company financial statements:
– Consolidated income statement for the year then ended;
– Risk assessment and audit planning at a Group level.
– Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the
The central control and common systems throughout most
year then ended;
of the Group enabled us to structure our audit centrally.
– Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year
In addition to appointing partners for each of the three
then ended;
businesses, we also had partners coordinate the component
– Consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended; and legal entity audits in each country. These global business
and partners met regularly with the relevant management to
– Notes 1 to 46 to the financial statements, which includes the understand strategy and matters which arose throughout
accounting principles and policies. the year that could have impacted on the financial reporting.
The regular meetings we had with members of the Internal
Parent company
Audit, the internal Legal Counsel and the Global Ethics &
– Balance sheet as at 31 December 2019; Compliance teams allowed us to understand their work, to
– Statement of changes in equity for the year then ended; and review their reports and to enhance our risk assessment:
– Notes A to M to the financial statements, which includes the – Significant changes in audit scope. The Group completed
accounting principles and policies. two major transactions during the year:
– The acquisition of 100% shares of Tesaro Inc. (Tesaro),
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the
a commercial-stage oncology business; and
preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law
and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union. The financial – The acquisition of the Pfizer Consumer Healthcare
reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of business to form a new consumer healthcare joint venture
the Parent company financial statements is applicable law and with Pfizer Inc.
United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101
As a result of the Pfizer transaction, some of the Pfizer
‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’ (United Kingdom Generally
Consumer Healthcare operations in the United States (US)
Accepted Accounting Practice).
and China have been brought into audit scope. Both
transactions required an increased extent of audit effort
in all areas, including the need to perform additional opening
balance sheet testing and consolidation work;
154 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Independent Auditor’s report continued
Report on the audit of the financial statements continued
– Audit work performed at global shared service centres. The residual consists of components or legal entities each with
A significant amount of the Group’s operational processes annual revenue (turnover) less than 1.8% of the total Group
that cover financial reporting are undertaken in shared service revenue. These entities and components are non-significant
centres. Our central team, which included senior individuals components that individually and in aggregate do not present
responsible for each of the global processes, coordinated a reasonable possibility of risk of material misstatement.
our audit work at the shared service centres in scope for the
4. Our application of materiality
Group audit, to ensure we developed a good understanding
of the end-to-end view of the key processes that supported We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the
material account balances, classes of transactions and financial statements that makes it probable that the economic
disclosures within the Group financial statements. We then decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be
evaluated the effectiveness of internal controls over financial changed or influenced. We use materiality both in planning
reporting for these processes and considered the implications the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of
for the remainder of our audit work; our work.
– Audit work executed at component level and individual Based on our professional judgement, we determined
legal entities. The following components were subject to materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows:
market-specific audit procedures as well as the assessment
Parent company
of the internal controls over financial reporting: Belgium; Group financial statements financial statements
Canada; China; France; Germany; Italy; Japan; Spain; Materiality £275 million £68 million
Switzerland; United Kingdom and United States. The Group (2018 – £270 million) (2018 – £67 million)
audit team was in active dialogue throughout the audit with Basis for In determining our benchmark Materiality was
the component audit teams responsible for the audit work determining for materiality we considered determined using the
under the direction and supervision of the Group audit team. materiality the metrics used by investors total assets benchmark.
and other readers of the financial
This included determining whether the work was planned
statements. In particular, we
and performed in accordance with the overall Group audit considered: Statutory profit
strategy and the requirements of our Group audit instructions before tax, Adjusted profit before
to the components. As part of supervising the work of the tax, Revenue and Net cash flows
from operations.
components, senior Group audit team members visited all
the component countries, as well as locations of all shared Using professional judgement we
have determined preliminary
service centre audits;
materiality to be £275 million.
– Audit procedures undertaken at a Group level and on the
Metric %
Parent company. In addition to the above, we also performed
Statutory profit before tax 4.4%
audit work on the Group and Parent company financial
Adjusted profit before tax* 3.3%
statements, including but not limited to the consolidation Revenue 0.8%
of the Group’s results, the preparation of the financial Net cash inflow from
3.5%
statements, certain disclosures within the directors’ operating activities
remuneration report, litigation provisions and exposures in * A reconciliation between the Statutory
addition to management’s entity level and oversight controls profit before tax and Adjusted profit
before tax is detailed in the Adjusting
relevant to financial reporting. We also carried out analytical
Items section of the strategic report.
procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no
Rationale Given the importance of the above The Parent company
significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated
for the metrics used by investors and other holds the Group’s
financial information of the remaining components not benchmark readers of the financial statements, investments and is not
subject to the market-specific audit procedures; and applied we concluded statutory profit in itself profit-oriented.
before tax to be the primary The strength of the
– Internal controls testing approach. We tested internal benchmark with adjusted profit balance sheet is the key
controls over financial reporting across all in-scope entities before tax, revenue and net cash measure of financial
and entity level controls at the Group level. We were able inflow from operating activities health that is important
the supporting benchmarks. to shareholders since
to place reliance on controls where planned and it was
the primary concern
more efficient. Notwithstanding the IT controls deficiencies The component materiality
for the Parent company
disclosed in the key audit matters section of this report, allocated to the in-scope is the payment of
components ranged between
mitigating controls existed which allowed us to continue dividends. Using a
£82.5 million and £192.5 million.
to take reliance on controls where planned. benchmark of total
The range of materiality allocated assets is therefore
The coverage obtained for our Group scoping strategy is across components in the audit the appropriate metric.
summarised as follows: of the prior year’s Group financial
statements was between
Profit Total
Benchmark Revenue before tax assets £81 million and £189 million.
Covered by market-specific procedures 69% 70% 86%
Covered by review at Group level 31% 30% 14%
GSK Annual Report 2019 155Independent Auditor’s report continued
Report on the audit of the financial statements continued
We set performance materiality at a level lower than materiality Principal risks and viability statement
to reduce the probability that, in aggregate, uncorrected and Based solely on reading the directors’ statements and
undetected misstatements exceed the materiality for the considering whether they were consistent with the knowledge
financial statements as a whole. Group performance we obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge
materiality was set at 70% of Group materiality for the 2019 obtained in the evaluation of the directors’ assessment of the
audit (2018 – 70%). In determining performance materiality, Group’s and the Parent company’s ability to continue as a going
we considered factors including: concern, we are required to state whether we have anything
material to add or draw attention to in relation to the:
– Our risk assessment, including our assessment of the
Group’s overall control environment and that we consider – Disclosures on pages 43 to 45 that describe the principal
it appropriate to rely on controls over a number of business risks, procedures to identify emerging risks and an
processes; and explanation of how these are being managed or mitigated;
– Our past experience of the audit, which has indicated a low – Directors’ confirmation on page 105 that they have carried
number of corrected and uncorrected misstatements out a robust assessment of the principal and emerging risks
identified in prior periods. facing the Group, including those that would threaten its
business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity; or
We agreed with the Audit & Risk Committee that we would
report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of – Directors’ explanation on page 47 as to how they have
£10 million (2018 – £10 million) as well as any differences assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period
below this threshold, which in our view, warranted reporting they have done so and why they consider that period to be
on qualitative grounds. We also report to the Audit & Risk appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a
Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to
assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements. continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due
over the period of their assessment, including any related
5. Conclusions relating to going concern,
disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications
principal risks and viability statement
or assumptions.
Going concern We are also required to report whether the directors’ statement
We have reviewed the directors’ statement in notes 1 and A relating to the prospects of the Group required by Listing Rule
to the financial statements about whether they considered it 9.8.6R(3) is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained
appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in the audit.
in preparing them and their identification of any material
We confirm that we have nothing material to report, add or
uncertainties to the Group’s and Parent company’s ability to
draw attention to in respect of these matters.
continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from
the date of approval of the financial statements.
We considered as part of our risk assessment the nature of the
Group, its business model and related risks including where
relevant the impact of Brexit, the requirements of the applicable
financial reporting framework and the system of internal control.
We evaluated the directors’ assessment of the Group’s ability
to continue as a going concern, including challenging the
underlying data and key assumptions used to make the
assessment, and evaluated the directors’ plans for future
actions in relation to their going concern assessment.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to
add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by
Listing Rule 9.8.6R(3) and report if the statement is materially
inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
We confirm that we have nothing material to report, add
or draw attention to in respect of these matters.
156 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Independent Auditor’s report continued
6. Key audit matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial
statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement (whether or not due to
fraud) that we identified. These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy; the allocation of
resources in the audit; and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon,
and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter
Valuation of the ViiV Healthcare Shionogi contingent Audit procedures performed
consideration liability We performed the following audit procedures, amongst others,
In recent years the Group has completed a number of significant related to the sales forecasts:
transactions which resulted in the recognition of material
– Challenged management’s evidence through enquiries of key
contingent consideration liabilities, which are a key source of
individuals from the senior leadership team, commercial strategy
estimation uncertainty. The most significant of these liabilities
team and key personnel involved in the budgeting and
was the ViiV Healthcare Shionogi Contingent Consideration
forecasting process, and the obtaining of objective evidence
Liability (ViiV CCL).
with respect to key inputs and assumptions;
The Group completed the acquisition of the remaining 50%
– Challenged the US volume assumptions made by management
interest in the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture in 2012.
to estimate sales forecasts. This involves benchmarking market
Upon completion, the Group recognised a contingent
share data against external data, such as total prescription
consideration liability for the fair value of the expected future
volumes and new patient prescription volumes, in order to assess
payments to be made to Shionogi. As at 31 December 2019,
for any sources of contradictory evidence;
the liability was valued at £5,103 million.
– Challenged the reasonableness of US pricing assumptions
We identified the ViiV CCL as a key audit matter because of
made by management, by comparing the forecasted Returns
the significant estimates and assumptions management makes
and Rebates accruals rate by product against the current rate,
related to the sales forecasts of dolutegravir-based regimens
and assessing the forecasted Returns and Rebates against
used to value the ViiV CCL. Such forecasts are based on
comparable products and expected changes in payer policy;
management’s assessment of the expected launch dates, the
ability to shift market practice and prescriber behaviour towards – Reviewed the results of clinical studies undertaken in the year by
2-drug regimens, and subsequent sales volumes and pricing. management and key competitors in order to assess whether
The forecasts also required significant audit effort to perform these are corroborative or contradictory to management’s
appropriate audit procedures to challenge and evaluate the assumptions on dolutegravir sales forecasts in the US;
reasonableness of those forecasts.
– Benchmarked management’s forecasts against analysts reports
The contingent consideration liabilities, including the ViiV CCL, and developed a range of possible outcomes using analyst
are disclosed as a key source of estimation uncertainty in note 3 forecast growth for ViiV Healthcare with a consensus of 15
of the Group financial statements with further disclosures analysts, including Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Morgan
provided in notes 28, 32, and 43. The matter is also discussed Stanley, Barclays, Credit Suisse, Jefferies and Redburn; and
in the Audit & Risk Committee report within the Corporate
– Tested the controls over the key inputs and assumptions used in
Governance section of the Annual Report.
the valuation of the contingent consideration liability, including
management review controls over the sales forecasts of
dolutegravir-based regimens.
Key observations communicated to the Audit & Risk Committee
Underlying sales forecasts for dolutegravir-based regimens used
in the valuation of the ViiV CCL have been updated to reflect
changes in the HIV market and ViiV’s products in that market.
The approach to valuing the ViiV CCL was consistent with prior
periods and management’s forecasts are within our benchmarked
observable range. We are satisfied that the valuation of the ViiV
CCL is reasonable and consistent with IFRS.
GSK Annual Report 2019 157Independent Auditor’s report continued
Report on the audit of the financial statements continued
Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter
Valuation of US Returns and Rebates (RAR) accruals Audit procedures performed
In the US the Group sells to customers under various commercial We performed the following audit procedures, amongst others,
and government mandated contracts and reimbursement related to management estimates in the RAR accruals:
arrangements that include rebates, chargebacks and a right of
– Assessed the historical accuracy of management’s estimates
return for certain pharmaceutical products. As such, revenue
against actual outcomes to inform our assessment of the current
recognition reflects gross-to-net sales adjustments. These
year accrual;
adjustments are known as the Returns and Rebates (RAR)
accruals and are a source of significant estimation uncertainty – Performed substantive analytical procedures by developing an
which could have a material impact on reported revenue. The independent expectation of the accrual balance for each of the
three most significant payer channels (also referred to as buying key segments, based on historical claims received adjusted to
groups) within the RAR accrual are managed healthcare reflect market changes in the period including an assessment of
organisations, Medicaid and Medicare Part D. the time lag between the initial point of sale and the claim receipt.
We then compared this independent expectation to those of
The two main causes of significant estimation uncertainty are:
management to evaluate the appropriateness of management’s
– The utilisation rate, which is the portion of total sales that will ending accrual position;
be made into each payer channel, estimated by management in
– Recalculated the accrual recognised to determine that it is
recording the accruals. The utilisation assumption is the most
consistent with the assumptions determined through
challenging of the key assumptions used to derive the accrual
management’s process;
given that it is influenced by market demand and other factors
outside the control of the Group; and – Selected a sample of individual utilisation rates giving particular
focus to products which have experienced increased generic
– The time lag between the point of sale and the point at which
competition in the current year. We challenged and obtained
exact rebate amounts are known to the Group upon receipt of
support for the utilisation rates selected, which included
a claim. Those payer channels with the longest time lag result
comparison to historical utilisation rates;
in a greater accrued period, and therefore, a greater level of
estimation uncertainty in estimating the period end accrual. – Challenged the appropriateness of period-end adjustments to
the liability made as part of the ongoing review of the estimated
The level of estimation uncertainty is also impacted by significant
accrual. The impact of these market events on the year end
shifts in channel mix often driven by changes in the competitive
accrual was considered and reflected as part of our overall audit
landscape, including competitor and generic product launches.
approach; and
In the US Pharmaceuticals business in 2019 £11,069 million
– Tested the key controls over the estimation of RAR accruals
of RAR deductions were made to gross revenue of £18,471
including the controls associated with the bi-annual forecasting
million resulting in net revenue of £7,402 million. The balance
of utilisation rates process and the month-end accrual review
sheet accrual at 31 December 2019 for the combined US
controls.
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines businesses amounted to
£4,200 million. Key observations communicated to the Audit & Risk Committee
US Pharmaceuticals returns and rebates are disclosed as a key We are satisfied that management’s estimated liability of the RAR
accounting estimate in note 3 of the Group financial statements accruals at the year end is appropriate and reasonable when
with further disclosures provided in note 28. The matter is also assessed against our own independent expectations and our
discussed in the Audit & Risk Committee report within the assessment of the accuracy of historical estimates against actual
Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report. rebates.
158 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Independent Auditor’s report continued
Report on the audit of the financial statements continued
Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter
Valuation of intangible assets recognised on Tesaro and Audit procedures performed
Pfizer transactions We performed the following audit procedures, amongst others,
During the year, the Group recognised £15,449 million of other related to the probability of success of pipeline products and
intangible assets (including licences, patents, trademarks and product innovations, likelihood of regulatory approval, future sales
brand names, but excluding goodwill) on the acquisitions of growth rates and profit margin levels, and discount rates used in
Tesaro Inc. and the Pfizer Consumer Healthcare business. the valuation of the acquired intangible assets:
The determination of the fair value of the acquired intangible – Met with the key individuals from the senior leadership team,
assets relies on certain management assumptions and product category leads and key personnel involved in the
estimates of future trading performance, including the probability forecasting process to discuss and evaluate management’s
of success of pipeline products and product innovations, evidence to support future sales growth rates and profitability
likelihood of regulatory approval, future sales growth rates and assumptions;
profit margin levels, and discount rates.
– Challenged the business assumptions applied by management
We identified the valuation of other intangible assets recognised in estimating sales forecasts, including benchmarking of sales
on these acquisitions as a key audit matter because of the forecasts and product compound annual growth rates to external
inherent judgements involved in estimating future cash flows data for the specific market segment. This included independent
and auditing such estimates required extensive audit effort to market research of expected category growth and assessment of
challenge and evaluate the reasonableness of those forecasts. any sources of contradictory evidence;
We also engaged our fair value specialists to assess the
– Evaluated the probability of success factors related to regulatory
discount rates and valuation methodologies applied.
approval applied to pipeline products to calculate forecast sales
The disclosures relating to other intangible assets are included to be derived from future commercialised assets;
in note 20 and 40 of the Group financial statements. The matter
– Assessed the historical accuracy of management’s forecasts
is also discussed in the Audit & Risk Committee report within
including consumption data and estimates of new sales from
the Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report.
innovation;
– Compared the forecast sales to the Plan data (asset by asset
internal forecasts) approved by senior management and the
Board of directors;
– With the assistance of our fair value specialists, assessed the
reasonableness of valuation-specific assumptions used by
management, including discount rate and terminal growth rate,
and whether these assumptions were consistent with how a
well-informed independent third party would value these assets;
and
– Tested management review controls over the key inputs and
assumptions used in valuation of intangible assets. The controls
encompass review of the valuation models, which contain a
number of assumptions such as the revenue growth rates,
probability of success of pipeline products, profit margins and
discount rates.
Key observations communicated to the Audit & Risk Committee
Whilst noting that there are potential risks to forecasts from
uncertainties such as regulatory approval of pipeline products and
sales growth from product innovations, we concluded that the
judgements made by management were reasonable and in
accordance with IFRS.
GSK Annual Report 2019 159Independent Auditor’s report continued
Report on the audit of the financial statements continued
Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter
Valuation of uncertain tax positions, including transfer Audit procedures performed
pricing With the support of tax specialists, we assessed the
The Group operates in numerous jurisdictions and there are appropriateness of the uncertain tax provisions by performing the
open tax and transfer pricing matters and exposures with UK, following audit procedures amongst others:
US and overseas tax authorities that give rise to uncertain tax
– Assessed and challenged provisions for uncertain tax positions,
positions. There is a range of possible outcomes for provisions
and focused our work on those jurisdictions where the Group
and contingencies can be wide and management are required
has the greatest potential exposure and where the highest level
to make certain judgements in respect of estimates of tax
of judgement is required;
exposures and contingencies in order to assess the adequacy
of tax provisions, which are sometimes complex as a result – Assessed management’s policies for recognition and
of the considerations required over multiple tax laws and measurement of uncertain tax positions for compliance with the
regulations. guidance per IFRIC 23;
At 31 December 2019, the Group has recorded provisions – Involved our transfer pricing specialists to review the transfer
of £933 million in respect of uncertain tax positions. pricing methodology of the Group and associated approach to
provisioning;
Valuation of uncertain tax positions is disclosed as a key source
of estimation uncertainty in note 3 of the Group financial – Involved our UK, US and international tax and transfer pricing
statements with further disclosures included in note 14. The specialists to challenge the conclusions reached by
matter is also discussed in the Audit & Risk Committee report management, both in relation to the expected outcome and the
within the Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report. financial impact;
– Considered evidence such as the actual results from the recent
tax authority audits and enquiries, third-party tax advice where
obtained and our tax specialists’ own knowledge of market
practice in relevant jurisdictions; and
– Tested key controls over preparation, review and reporting of
judgmental tax balances and transactions, which include
provisions for uncertain tax provisions.
Key observations communicated to the Audit & Risk Committee
We are satisfied that management’s judgements in relation to
uncertain tax positions and the related disclosures are in
accordance with IFRS. From our work we concluded that
management have applied a consistent approach to estimating
uncertain tax provisions, the judgements continue to be prudent
and are appropriately recorded.
160 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Independent Auditor’s report continued
Report on the audit of the financial statements continued
Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter
IT systems which impact financial reporting Audit procedures performed over IT systems
The IT systems within the Group form a critical component of As a result of the IT control deficiencies identified, we incorporated
the Group’s financial reporting activities and impact all account additional considerations in performing our risk assessment and
balances. IT controls, in the context of our scope for the audit procedures as follows:
financial audit, primarily relate to user access security and
– Considered the impact on our risk assessment through
change control.
evaluating our audit risks in the context of the IT deficiencies
During the year, the Group continued to implement the with assistance of our IT specialist team; and
remediation plan to address the user access and change
– Tested additional manual business process controls, which
control IT deficiencies identified in the prior year. This primarily
addressed the related IT risks.
involved the removal of inappropriate access together with the
implementation of appropriate privileged access management Key observations communicated to the Audit & Risk Committee
processes and controls which are planned to be fully complete Management’s actions have made significant progress in reducing
in 2020. the number of deficiencies in the year relating to user access and
We have identified the IT systems, which impact financial change management. The Group has many layers of business
reporting as a key audit matter because of the: process controls to mitigate the risk associated with the IT control
deficiencies.
– Reliance on these systems within the Group;
We are satisfied that mitigating business process controls address
– Importance of the IT controls over the systems to maintaining
the risk of material misstatement impacting financial reporting
an effective control environment. A key interdependency
caused by IT control deficiencies.
exists between the ability to rely on IT controls and the ability
to rely on system configured automated controls and system
reports;
– Pervasive nature of these systems;
– Fact that some remediation activities are not yet complete
and will continue into 2020;
– Considerable involvement of IT specialists; and
– Additional effort needed from the audit team to test
compensating controls to mitigate the unaddressed IT risks.
IT systems which impact financial reporting are discussed in
the Audit & Risk Committee report within the Corporate
Governance section of the Annual Report. The key IT systems
impact a range of business processes, including General
Ledger, Procurement, Sales and Financial Consolidation.
GSK Annual Report 2019 161Independent Auditor’s report continued
Report on the audit of the financial statements continued
7. Other information
The directors are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information included in the Annual
Report, other than the financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in
our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider
whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or
otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a
material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information. If, based on the work we have
performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
We summarise below our work in relation to areas of the other information including those areas upon which we are specifically
required to report:
Matters we are specifically required to report
Our responsibility Our reporting
Fair, balanced and understandable
Consider whether the statement given by the directors that they consider the We consider that the directors’ statement is consistent
Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and with our knowledge obtained from the audit.
understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to
assess the Group’s position and performance, business model and strategy
is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained from the audit.
Audit & Risk Committee report
Consider whether it deals appropriately with those matters that we reported All matters we reported have been appropriately covered
to the Audit & Risk Committee. in the Audit & Risk Committee report.
Directors’ statement of compliance with the UK Corporate
Governance Code (‘the Code’) We did not identify any such matters.
Consider whether the parts of the directors’ statement required under the
Listing Rules relating to the Parent company’s compliance with the Code
containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with
Listing Rule 9.8.10R(2) properly discloses any departure from a relevant
provision of the Code.
Principal risks and viability statement
Review the confirmation and description in the light of the knowledge As set out in the section ‘Conclusions relating to going
gathered during the audit, such as through considering the directors’ concern, principal risks and viability statement’, we have
processes to support the statements made, challenging management’s key nothing material to report, add or draw attention to in
judgements and estimates, consideration of historical forecasting accuracy respect of these matters.
and evaluating macro-economic assumptions.
Consider if the statements are aligned with the relevant provisions of the Code.
Directors’ Remuneration report
Report whether the part of the directors’ remuneration report to be audited is As set out in the section ‘Opinions on other matters
properly prepared and the disclosures specified by the Companies Act have prescribed by the Companies Act 2006’, in our opinion,
been made. the part of the directors’ remuneration report to be
audited has been prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 2006.
Strategic report and directors’ report
Report whether they are consistent with the audited financial statements As set out in the section ‘Opinions on other matters
and are prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements. prescribed by the Companies Act 2006’, in our opinion,
based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit,
Report if we have identified any material misstatements in either report in the
the information in these reports is consistent with the
light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and of the Parent
audited financial statements and has been prepared in
company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
accordance with applicable legal requirements.
162 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Independent Auditor’s report continued
Report on the audit of the financial statements continued
Other reporting on other information
Our responsibility Our reporting
Alternative performance measures (APMs)
APMs are measures that are not defined by generally accepted accounting In our opinion:
practice (GAAP) and therefore are not typically included in the financial
– the use, calculation and disclosure of APMs is
statement part of the Annual Report. The Group use APMs, such as adjusted
consistent with the Group’s published definitions and
profit, free cash flow and constant currency growth rates in some of its quarterly
policies;
and annual reporting of financial performance.
– the use of APMs in the Group’s reporting results is
We have reviewed and assessed management’s calculation and reporting
consistent with the guidelines produced by ESMA and
of these metrics to assess consistency with the Group’s published definitions
FRC; and
and policies for these items.
– there is an appropriate balance between the use of
We have also considered and assessed whether the use of APMs in the
statutory metrics and APMs, together with clear
Group’s reporting results is consistent with the guidelines produced by
definitions and reconciliation for APMs used in financial
regulators such as the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA)
reporting.
guidelines on the use of APMs and the FRC Alternative Performance Measures
Thematic Review published in November 2017.
We also considered whether there was an appropriate balance between the
use of statutory metrics and APMs, in addition to whether clear definitions
and reconciliation for APMs used in financial reporting have been provided.
Dividends and distribution policy
Consider whether the dividends policy is transparent and the dividends In our opinion, the dividends policy is appropriately
paid are consistent with the policy as outlined in the strategic report on disclosed and dividends paid are consistent with the
page 61. policy.
GSK Annual Report 2019 163Independent Auditor’s report continued
Report on the audit of the financial statements continued
8. Responsibilities of directors – Enquiring of management, internal audit and the Audit & Risk
Committee, including obtaining and reviewing supporting
As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities
documentation, concerning the Group’s policies and
statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of
procedures relating to:
the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a
true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors – Identifying, evaluating and complying with laws and
determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial regulations and whether they were aware of any instances
statements that are free from material misstatement, whether of non-compliance;
due to fraud or error. – Detecting and responding to the risks of fraud and whether
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are they have knowledge of any actual, suspected or alleged
responsible for assessing the Group’s and the Parent fraud; and
company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing – The internal controls established to mitigate risks related to
as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations.
going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either
– Discussing among the engagement team including significant
intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent company or to cease
component audit teams and involving relevant internal
operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
specialists, including tax, valuations, pensions, IT and industry
9. Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the specialists regarding how and where fraud might occur in the
financial statements financial statements and any potential indicators of fraud; and
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about – Obtaining an understanding of the legal and regulatory
whether the financial statements as a whole are free from frameworks that the Group operates in, focusing on those
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to laws and regulations that had a direct effect on the financial
issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable statements, such as provisions of the UK Companies Act,
assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee pensions legislation and tax legislations or that had a
that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will fundamental effect on the operations of the Group, including
always detect a material misstatement when it exists. the Good Clinical Practice, the FDA regulations, General
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered Data Protection requirements, Anti-bribery and corruption
material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably policy and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.
be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken
Audit response to risks identified
on the basis of these financial statements.
Our procedures to respond to risks identified included the
Details of the extent to which the audit was considered capable following:
of detecting irregularities, including fraud are set out below.
– Reviewing the financial statement disclosures and testing
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of to supporting documentation to assess compliance with
the financial statements is located on the FRC’s website at: provisions of relevant laws and regulations described as
www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms having a direct effect on the financial statements;
part of our auditor’s report.
– Enquiring of management, the Audit & Risk Committee and
10. Extent to which the audit was considered in-house and external legal counsel concerning actual and
capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud potential litigation and claims;
We identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the – Performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual or
financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, and then unexpected relationships that may indicate risks of material
design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, misstatement due to fraud; and
including obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and – Reading minutes of meetings of those charged with
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. governance, reviewing internal audit reports and
correspondence with regulators.
Identifying and assessing potential risks related to
irregularities We have also considered the risks noted above in addressing
In identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the risk of fraud through management override of controls:
respect of irregularities, including fraud and non-compliance
– Testing the appropriateness of journal entries and other
with laws and regulations, we considered the following:
adjustments;
– The nature of the industry and sector, control environment
– Assessing whether the judgements made in making
and business performance including the design of the
accounting estimates are indicative of a potential bias; and
Group’s remuneration policies, key drivers for directors’
remuneration, bonus levels and performance targets; – Evaluating the business rationale of any significant
transactions that are unusual or outside the normal course
of business.
164 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Independent Auditor’s report continued
Report on the audit of the financial statements continued
We also communicated relevant identified laws and regulations 13. Other matters
and potential fraud risks to all engagement team members and
significant component audit teams, and remained alert to any Auditor tenure
indications of fraud or non-compliance with laws and Following the recommendation of the Audit & Risk Committee,
regulations throughout the audit. with effect from 1 January 2018 we were appointed by the
Board of Directors to audit the financial statements for the year
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements ended 31 December 2018 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement of the firm is
11. Opinions on other matters prescribed by
two years.
the Companies Act 2006
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to
In our opinion, the part of the directors’ remuneration report to the Audit & Risk Committee
be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the
Companies Act 2006. Audit & Risk Committee we are required to provide in
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of accordance with ISAs (UK).
the audit: 14. Use of our report
– The information given in the strategic report and the directors’
This report is made solely to the Parent company’s members,
report for the financial year for which the financial statements
as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the
are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and
Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so
– The strategic report and the directors’ report have been that we might state to the Parent company’s members those
prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements. matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report
and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law,
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group
we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than
and of the Parent company and their environment obtained in
the Parent company and the Parent company’s members as a
the course of the audit, we have not identified any material
body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we
misstatements in the strategic report or the directors’ report.
have formed.
12. Matters on which we are required to report
The Parent company has passed a resolution in accordance
by exception
with section 506 of the Companies Act 2006 that the senior
statutory auditor’s name should not be stated.
Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to
you if, in our opinion:
– We have not received all the information and explanations we
require for our audit; or
– Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Deloitte LLP
Parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not Statutory Auditor
been received from branches not visited by us; or London, United Kingdom
– The Parent company financial statements are not in 3 March 2020
agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors’ remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report
if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration
have not been made or the part of the directors’ remuneration
report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting
records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
GSK Annual Report 2019 165Consolidated income statement
for the year ended 31 December 2019
2019 2018 2017
Notes £m £m £m
Turnover 6 33,754 30,821 30,186
Cost of sales (11,863) (10,241) (10,342)
Gross profit 21,891 20,580 19,844
Selling, general and administration (11,402) (9,915) (9,672)
Research and development (4,568) (3,893) (4,476)
Royalty income 351 299 356
Other operating income/(expense) 7 689 (1,588) (1,965)
Operating profit 8 6,961 5,483 4,087
Finance income 11 98 81 65
Finance expense 12 (912) (798) (734)
Profit on disposal of interest in associates – 3 94
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures 13 74 31 13
Profit before taxation 6,221 4,800 3,525
Taxation 14 (953) (754) (1,356)
Profit after taxation for the year 5,268 4,046 2,169
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 623 423 637
Profit attributable to shareholders 4,645 3,623 1,532
5,268 4,046 2,169
Basic earnings per share (pence) 15 93.9p 73.7p 31.4p
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 15 92.6p 72.9p 31.0p
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
for the year ended 31 December 2019
2019 2018 2017
£m £m £m
Profit for the year 5,268 4,046 2,169
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges 37 (832) (480) 462
Reclassification of exchange movements on liquidation or disposal of overseas subsidiaries 37 (75) – 109
Fair value movements on equity investments (14)
Deferred tax on fair value movements on equity investments 47
Reclassification of fair value movements on equity investments – – (42)
Deferred tax reversed on reclassification of equity investments – – (18)
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges (20) 140 (10)
Deferred tax on fair value movements on cash flow hedges 16 (22) –
Reclassification of cash flow hedges to income statement 3 (175) –
Deferred tax reversed on reclassification of cash flow hedges – 20 –
(908) (517) 534
Items that will not be reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets of non-controlling interests 37 (75) (1) (149)
Fair value movements on equity investments 372 180
Deferred tax on fair value movements on equity investments (95) 10
Remeasurement (losses)/gains on defined benefit plans (1,050) 728 549
Tax on remeasurement of defined benefit plans 189 (146) (221)
(659) 771 179
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year 37 (1,567) 254 713
Total comprehensive income for the year 3,701 4,300 2,882
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to:
Shareholders 3,153 3,878 2,394
Non-controlling interests 548 422 488
Total comprehensive income for the year 3,701 4,300 2,882
166 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Consolidated balance sheet
as at 31 December 2019
2019 2018
Notes £m £m
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 17 10,348 11,058
Right of use assets 18 966
Goodwill 19 10,562 5,789
Other intangible assets 20 30,955 17,202
Investments in associates and joint ventures 21 314 236
Other investments 22 1,837 1,322
Deferred tax assets 14 4,096 3,887
Derivative financial instruments 43 103 69
Other non-current assets 23 1,020 1,576
Total non-current assets 60,201 41,139
Current assets
Inventories 24 5,947 5,476
Current tax recoverable 14 262 229
Trade and other receivables 25 7,202 6,423
Derivative financial instruments 43 421 188
Liquid investments 29 79 84
Cash and cash equivalents 26 4,707 3,874
Assets held for sale 27 873 653
Total current assets 19,491 16,927
Total assets 79,692 58,066
Current liabilities
Short-term borrowings 29 (6,918) (5,793)
Contingent consideration liabilities 32 (755) (837)
Trade and other payables 28 (14,939) (14,037)
Derivative financial instruments 43 (188) (127)
Current tax payable 14 (629) (965)
Short-term provisions 31 (621) (732)
Total current liabilities (24,050) (22,491)
Non-current liabilities
Long-term borrowings 29 (23,590) (20,271)
Corporation tax payable 14 (189) (272)
Deferred tax liabilities 14 (3,810) (1,156)
Pensions and other post-employment benefits 30 (3,457) (3,125)
Other provisions 31 (670) (691)
Derivative financial instruments 43 (1) (1)
Contingent consideration liabilities 32 (4,724) (5,449)
Other non-current liabilities 33 (844) (938)
Total non-current liabilities (37,285) (31,903)
Total liabilities (61,335) (54,394)
Net assets 18,357 3,672
Equity
Share capital 36 1,346 1,345
Share premium account 36 3,174 3,091
Retained earnings (2018 revised – see Note 1) 37 4,530 (2,716)
Other reserves 37 2,355 2,061
Shareholders’ equity 11,405 3,781
Non-controlling interests (2018 revised – see Note 1) 6,952 (109)
Total equity 18,357 3,672
The financial statements on pages 166 to 251 were approved by the Board on 3 March 2020 and signed on its behalf by
Sir Jonathan Symonds
Chairman
GSK Annual Report 2019 167Consolidated statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 December 2019
Shareholders’ equity
Share Share Retained Other Non-controlling Total
capital premium earnings reserves Total interests equity
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2017 1,342 2,954 (5,392) 2,220 1,124 3,839 4,963
Profit for the year – – 1,532 – 1,532 637 2,169
Other comprehensive income for the year – – 899 (37) 862 (149) 713
Total comprehensive income for the year – – 2,431 (37) 2,394 488 2,882
Distributions to non-controlling interests – – – – – (789) (789)
Contribution from non-controlling interests – – – – – 21 21
Dividends to shareholders – – (3,906) – (3,906) – (3,906)
Changes in non-controlling interests – – – – – (2) (2)
Shares issued 1 55 – – 56 – 56
Shares acquired by ESOP Trusts – 10 581 (656) (65) – (65)
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts – – (520) 520 – – –
Share-based incentive plans – – 333 – 333 – 333
Tax on share-based incentive plans – – (4) – (4) – (4)
At 31 December 2017 1,343 3,019 (6,477) 2,047 (68) 3,557 3,489
Implementation of IFRS 15 – – (4) – (4) – (4)
Implementation of IFRS 9 – – 277 (288) (11) – (11)
At 31 December 2017, as adjusted 1,343 3,019 (6,204) 1,759 (83) 3,557 3,474
Profit for the year – – 3,623 – 3,623 423 4,046
Other comprehensive income for the year – – 124 131 255 (1) 254
Total comprehensive income for the year – – 3,747 131 3,878 422 4,300
Distributions to non-controlling interests – – – – – (570) (570)
Contribution from non-controlling interests – – – – – 21 21
Derecognition of non-controlling interests in Consumer
Healthcare Joint Venture – – 4,056 – 4,056 (4,118) (62)
Dividends to shareholders – – (3,927) – (3,927) – (3,927)
Realised profits on disposal of equity investments – – 56 (56) – – –
Share of associates and joint ventures realised profits
on disposal of equity investments – – 38 (38) – – –
Shares issued 2 72 – – 74 – 74
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts – – (265) 265 – – –
Share-based incentive plans – – 360 – 360 – 360
Tax on share-based incentive plans – – 2 – 2 – 2
At 31 December 2018, as reported 1,345 3,091 (2,137) 2,061 4,360 (688) 3,672
Adjustment to non-controlling interest
(see Note 1) – – (579) – (579) 579 –
At 31 December 2018, as revised 1,345 3,091 (2,716) 2,061 3,781 (109) 3,672
Implementation of IFRS 16 – – (93) – (93) – (93)
At 31 December 2018, as adjusted 1,345 3,091 (2,809) 2,061 3,688 (109) 3,579
Profit for the year – – 4,645 – 4,645 623 5,268
Other comprehensive income for the year – – (1,766) 274 (1,492) (75) (1,567)
Total comprehensive income for the year – – 2,879 274 3,153 548 3,701
Distributions to non-controlling interests – – – – – (364) (364)
Changes in non-controlling interests – – – – – (10) (10)
Dividends to shareholders – – (3,953) – (3,953) – (3,953)
Recognition of interest in Consumer Healthcare
Joint Venture – – 8,082 – 8,082 6,887 14,969
Realised losses on disposal of equity investments – – (4) 4 – – –
Shares issued 1 50 – – 51 – 51
Shares acquired by ESOP Trusts – 33 295 (328) – – –
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts – – (344) 344 – – –
Share-based incentive plans – – 365 – 365 – 365
Tax on share-based incentive plans – – 19 – 19 – 19
At 31 December 2019 1,346 3,174 4,530 2,355 11,405 6,952 18,357
168 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Consolidated cash flow statement
for the year ended 31 December 2019
2019 2018 2017
Notes £m £m £m
Cash flow from operating activities
Profit after taxation for the year 5,268 4,046 2,169
Adjustments reconciling profit after tax to operating cash flows 41 4,264 5,701 6,089
Cash generated from operations 9,532 9,747 8,258
Taxation paid (1,512) (1,326) (1,340)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 8,020 8,421 6,918
Cash flow from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (1,265) (1,344) (1,545)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 95 168 281
Purchase of intangible assets (898) (452) (657)
Proceeds from sale of intangible assets 404 256 48
Purchase of equity investments (258) (309) (80)
Proceeds from sale of equity investments 69 151 64
Contingent consideration paid (113) (153) (91)
Purchase of businesses, net of cash acquired 40 (3,571) – –
Disposal of businesses 40 104 26 282
Investments in associates and joint ventures 40 (11) (10) (15)
Proceeds from disposal of interests in associates 40 – 3 196
Decrease in liquid investments 1 – 4
Interest received 82 72 64
Dividends from associates, joint ventures and equity investments 7 39 6
Net cash outflow from investing activities (5,354) (1,553) (1,443)
Cash flow from financing activities
Shares acquired by ESOP Trusts – – (65)
Issue of share capital 36 51 74 56
Purchase of non-controlling interests (7) (9,320) (29)
Increase in long-term loans 4,794 10,138 2,233
Repayment of short-term Notes (4,160) (2,067) (2,636)
Increase in/(repayment of) other short-term loans 3,095 81 (564)
Repayment of lease liabilities (214) (28) (23)
Interest paid (895) (766) (781)
Dividends paid to shareholders (3,953) (3,927) (3,906)
Distributions to non-controlling interests (364) (570) (779)
Contributions from non-controlling interests – 21 21
Other financing cash flows (187) (25) 93
Net cash outflow from financing activities (1,840) (6,389) (6,380)
Increase/(decrease) in cash and bank overdrafts 42 826 479 (905)
Cash and bank overdrafts at beginning of year 4,087 3,600 4,605
Exchange adjustments (82) 8 (100)
Increase/(decrease) in cash and bank overdrafts 826 479 (905)
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year 4,831 4,087 3,600
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year comprise:
Cash and cash equivalents 4,707 3,874 3,833
Cash and cash equivalents reported in assets held for sale 507 485 –
5,214 4,359 3,833
Overdrafts (383) (272) (233)
4,831 4,087 3,600
GSK Annual Report 2019 169Notes to the financial statements
1. Presentation of the financial statements
Description of business The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with
GSK is a major global healthcare group which is engaged generally accepted accounting principles requires management
in the creation and discovery, development, manufacture and to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported
marketing of pharmaceutical products, vaccines, over-the- amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent
counter (OTC) medicines and health-related consumer assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and
products. GSK’s principal pharmaceutical products include the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the
medicines in the following therapeutic areas: respiratory, HIV, reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
immuno-inflammation, oncology, anti-virals, central nervous
Adjustment to 2018 retained earnings and non-controlling
system, cardiovascular and urogenital, metabolic, anti-bacterials
interests balances
and dermatology.
In 2018, the Group acquired Novartis’ non-controlling interest in
Compliance with applicable law and IFRS the old Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture. As a result of the
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance transaction, the non-controlling interest ceased to exist and
with the Companies Act 2006, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation should have been fully eliminated from the consolidated
and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and reserves. An adjustment of £579 million has been made
related interpretations, as adopted by the European Union. between the 2018 closing balances of retained earnings and
non-controlling interests to reallocate cumulative translation
The financial statements are also in compliance with IFRS as
exchange and eliminate the remaining non-controlling interest
issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
balance. There was no impact on profit for the year, other
Composition of financial statements comprehensive income, net assets or total equity for 2018 and
The consolidated financial statements are drawn up in Sterling, no impact on any items in earlier years. The effect of the
the functional currency of GlaxoSmithKline plc, and in adjustment on the relevant equity balances was as follows:
accordance with IFRS accounting presentation. The financial At At
statements comprise: 31 December 31 December
2018, as 2018, as
– Consolidated income statement reported Adjustment revised
£m £m £m
– Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Retained earnings (2,137) (579) (2,716)
Shareholders’ equity 4,360 (579) 3,781
– Consolidated balance sheet
Non-controlling interests (688) 579 (109)
– Consolidated statement of changes in equity
Total equity 3,672 – 3,672
– Consolidated cash flow statement
Implementation of IFRS 16 ‘Leases’
– Notes to the financial statements.
The Group has applied IFRS 16 ‘Leases’ with effect from
Composition of the Group 1 January 2019. IFRS 16 introduces new requirements for the
A list of the subsidiaries and associates which, in the opinion definition of a lease, lessee accounting and lessor accounting
of the Directors, principally affected the amount of profit or net as well as a number of new disclosures.
assets of the Group is given in Note 45, ‘Principal Group In general, all leases within the scope of IFRS 16 are required
companies’. to be brought on to the balance sheet by lessees, recognising
a ‘right-of-use’ asset and a related lease liability at the
Financial period
commencement of the lease. The subsequent accounting is
These financial statements cover the financial year from 1
similar to the finance lease model set out in IAS 17. IFRS 16
January to 31 December 2019, with comparative figures for the
establishes a control model for the identification of leases,
financial years from 1 January to 31 December 2018 and, where
distinguishing between leases and service contracts on the basis
appropriate, from 1 January to 31 December 2017.
of whether there is an identified asset controlled by the customer.
Accounting principles and policies GSK has adopted IFRS 16 applying the modified retrospective
The financial statements have been prepared using the approach, and accordingly prior year results have not been
historical cost convention modified by the revaluation of certain restated. For larger leases (leases with annual payments of
items, as stated in the accounting policies, and on a going £1 million or more), the right of use asset at 1 January 2019
concern basis. was calculated based on the original lease inception date and
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance for smaller leases (leases with annual payments of less than
with the Group’s accounting policies approved by the Board £1 million) the right of use asset was set equal to the lease
and described in Note 2, ‘Accounting principles and policies’. liability at 1 January 2019, adjusted for any prepaid or accrued
Information on the application of these accounting policies, lease payments, onerous lease provisions and business
including areas of estimation and judgement is given in Note 3, combination fair value adjustments. Any difference between the
‘Key accounting judgements and estimates’. previous carrying amount and the revised carrying amount at
1 January 2019 has been recognised as an adjustment to
opening retained earnings at 1 January 2019.
170 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
1. Presentation of the financial statements continued
The Group has applied the definition of a lease and related The £98 million reduction in property, plant and equipment
guidance set out in IFRS 16 to all lease contracts entered into arose from the transfer of asset retirement obligations and
either before the date of initial application or after. There have existing finance leases to right of use assets. The £160 million
been no significant changes as a result for the vast majority of adjustment to other non-current liabilities arose from business
contracts. combination fair value adjustments which were derecognised
on the transition to IFRS 16 with a corresponding adjustment
The following permitted practical expedients were applied
to right of use assets.
at transition:
The application of IFRS 16 has had no material impact on the
– The right-of-use asset at the date of transition was adjusted
Group’s income statement and earnings per share, or on overall
by the amount of the existing onerous lease provision at
cash flows for the Group. However, the presentation of the
31 December 2018, without re-assessment.
lease payments in the cash flow statement has changed,
– Leases ending within 12 months of the transition date were resulting in an increase to the net cash inflow from operating
treated as short-term leases on a lease-by-lease basis. activities, and hence free cash flow, and a corresponding
– Initial direct costs were excluded from the measurement of increase in the net cash outflow from financing items (split
the right of use asset at the transition date on a lease-by- between interest paid and repayment of lease liabilities).
lease basis. The reconciliation between operating lease commitments
– Hindsight was applied, such as in determining the lease term previously reported for the year ended 31 December 2018,
where contracts contained options to extend or terminate the discounted at the Group’s incremental borrowing rate, and
lease. the lease liabilities recognised in the balance sheet on initial
application of IFRS 16 is as follows:
The weighted average incremental borrowing rate applied to
lease liabilities recognised on 1 January 2019 was 3.13%. £m
Operating lease commitments at 31 December 2018 1,138
Impact of IFRS 16 on each balance sheet line item Effect of discounting at the Group’s incremental borrowing rate
The table below shows the amount of adjustment for each at 1 January 2019 (126)
financial statement line item affected by the application of Reasonably certain extension options 254
IFRS 16 at 1 January 2019. Termination options not reasonably certain to be exercised 46
Short-term leases (2)
As IFRS 16 As
reported adjustments adjusted Other adjustments (7)
£m £m £m Lease liabilities recognised at 1 January 2019 1,303
Non-current assets
Parent company financial statements
Property, plant and equipment 11,058 (98) 10,960
The financial statements of the parent company,
Right of use assets – 1,071 1,071
GlaxoSmithKline plc, have been prepared in accordance with
Other non-current assets 1,576 (11) 1,565
UK GAAP and with UK accounting presentation. The company
Deferred tax assets 3,887 39 3,926
balance sheet is presented on page 252 and the accounting
Current assets policies are given on pages 253 and 254.
Trade and other receivables 6,423 3 6,426
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables (14,037) 10 (14,027)
Provisions (732) 32 (700)
Short-term borrowings (5,793) (229) (6,022)
Non-current liabilities
Long-term borrowings (20,271) (1,074) (21,345)
Other non-current liabilities (938) 160 (778)
Provisions (691) 3 (688)
Deferred tax liabilities (1,156) 1 (1,155)
Total effect on net assets 3,672 (93) 3,579
Retained earnings, as revised (2,716) (93) (2,809)
Total effect on equity 3,672 (93) 3,579
GSK Annual Report 2019 171Notes to the financial statements continued
2. Accounting principles and policies
Consolidation The part of each payment relating to the original estimate of
The consolidated financial statements include: the fair value of the contingent consideration on acquisition is
reported within investing activities in the cash flow statement
– the assets and liabilities, and the results and cash flows, of
and the part of each payment relating to the increase in the
the company and its subsidiaries, including ESOP Trusts
liability since the acquisition date is reported within operating
– the Group’s share of the results and net assets of associates cash flows.
and joint ventures
Where the consideration transferred, together with the non-
– the Group’s share of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses controlling interest, exceeds the fair value of the net assets,
of joint operations. liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired, the excess is
The financial statements of entities consolidated are made up recorded as goodwill. The costs of effecting an acquisition
to 31 December each year. are charged to the income statement in the period in which
they are incurred.
Entities over which the Group has the power to direct the
relevant activities so as to affect the returns to the Group, Goodwill is capitalised as a separate item in the case of
generally through control over the financial and operating subsidiaries and as part of the cost of investment in the case
policies, are accounted for as subsidiaries. of joint ventures and associates. Goodwill is denominated in
the currency of the operation acquired.
Where the Group has the ability to exercise joint control over,
and rights to, the net assets of entities, the entities are Where the cost of acquisition is below the fair value of the net
accounted for as joint ventures. Where the Group has the ability assets acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the
to exercise joint control over an arrangement, but has rights to income statement.
specified assets and obligations for specified liabilities of the Where not all of the equity of a subsidiary is acquired the
arrangement, the arrangement is accounted for as a joint non-controlling interest is recognised either at fair value or at
operation. Where the Group has the ability to exercise the non-controlling interest’s share of the net assets of the
significant influence over entities, they are accounted for as subsidiary, on a case-by-case basis. Changes in the Group’s
associates. The results and assets and liabilities of associates ownership percentage of subsidiaries are accounted for within
and joint ventures are incorporated into the consolidated equity.
financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
The Group’s rights to assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses Foreign currency translation
of joint operations are included in the consolidated financial Foreign currency transactions are booked in the functional
statements in accordance with those rights and obligations. currency of the Group company at the exchange rate ruling
on the date of transaction. Foreign currency monetary assets
Interests acquired in entities are consolidated from the date the
and liabilities are retranslated into the functional currency at
Group acquires control and interests sold are de-consolidated
rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. Exchange
from the date control ceases.
differences are included in the income statement.
Transactions and balances between subsidiaries are eliminated
On consolidation, assets and liabilities, including related
and no profit before tax is taken on sales between subsidiaries
goodwill, of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint
until the products are sold to customers outside the Group.
ventures, are translated into Sterling at rates of exchange
The relevant proportion of profits on transactions with joint
ruling at the balance sheet date. The results and cash flows
ventures, joint operations and associates is also deferred until
of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures are
the products are sold to third parties. Transactions with non-
translated into Sterling using average rates of exchange.
controlling interests are recorded directly in equity. Deferred tax
relief on unrealised intra-Group profit is accounted for only to Exchange adjustments arising when the opening net assets
the extent that it is considered recoverable. and the profits for the year retained by overseas subsidiaries,
associates and joint ventures are translated into Sterling, less
Business combinations exchange differences arising on related foreign currency
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition borrowings which hedge the Group’s net investment in these
accounting method. Identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent operations, are taken to a separate component of equity.
liabilities acquired are measured at fair value at acquisition date.
When translating into Sterling the assets, liabilities, results
The consideration transferred is measured at fair value and
and cash flows of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint
includes the fair value of any contingent consideration.
ventures which are reported in currencies of hyper-inflationary
The fair value of contingent consideration liabilities are economies, adjustments are made where material to reflect
reassessed at each balance sheet date with changes current price levels. Any loss on net monetary assets is charged
recognised in the income statement. Payments of contingent to the consolidated income statement.
consideration reduce the balance sheet liability and as a result
are not recorded in the income statement.
172 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
2. Accounting principles and policies continued
Revenue (applicable from 1 January 2018) Advertising and promotion expenditure is charged to the income
The Group receives revenue for supply of goods to external statement as incurred. Shipment costs on inter-company
customers against orders received. The majority of contracts transfers are charged to cost of sales; distribution costs on
that GSK enters into relate to sales orders containing single sales to customers are included in selling, general and
performance obligations for the delivery of pharmaceutical, administrative expenditure.
vaccine and consumer healthcare products. The average
Restructuring costs are recognised and provided for, where
duration of a sales order is less than 12 months.
appropriate, in respect of the direct expenditure of a business
Product revenue is recognised when control of the goods is reorganisation where the plans are sufficiently detailed and well
passed to the customer. The point at which control passes is advanced, and where appropriate communication to those
determined by each customer arrangement, but generally affected has been undertaken.
occurs on delivery to the customer.
Research and development
Product revenue represents net invoice value including fixed Research and development expenditure is charged to the
and variable consideration. Variable consideration arises on the income statement in the period in which it is incurred.
sale of goods as a result of discounts and allowances given and Development expenditure is capitalised when the criteria for
accruals for estimated future returns and rebates. Revenue is recognising an asset are met, usually when a regulatory filing
not recognised in full until it is highly probable that a significant has been made in a major market and approval is considered
reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue recognised will highly probable. Property, plant and equipment used for
not occur. The methodology and assumptions used to estimate research and development is capitalised and depreciated
rebates and returns are monitored and adjusted regularly in in accordance with the Group’s policy.
the light of contractual and legal obligations, historical trends,
past experience and projected market conditions. Once the Environmental expenditure
uncertainty associated with the returns and rebates is resolved, Environmental expenditure related to existing conditions
revenue is adjusted accordingly. resulting from past or current operations and from which no
current or future benefit is discernible is charged to the income
GSK enters into development and marketing collaborations and
statement. The Group recognises its liability on a site-by-site
out-licences of the Group’s compounds or products to other
basis when it can be reliably estimated. This liability includes
parties. These contracts give rise to fixed and variable
the Group’s portion of the total costs and also a portion of other
consideration from upfront payments, development milestones,
potentially responsible parties’ costs when it is probable that
sales-based milestones and royalties.
they will not be able to satisfy their respective shares of the
Income dependent on the achievement of a development clean-up obligation. Recoveries of reimbursements are
milestone is recognised when it is highly probable that a recorded as assets when virtually certain.
significant reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue
recognised will not occur, which is usually when the related Legal and other disputes
event occurs. Sales-based milestone income is recognised Provision is made for the anticipated settlement costs of legal or
when it is highly probable that the sales threshold will be other disputes against the Group where an outflow of resources
reached. is considered probable and a reliable estimate can be made of
the likely outcome. In respect of product liability claims related
Sales-based royalties on a licence of intellectual property are
to certain products, provision is made when there is sufficient
not recognised until the relevant product sale occurs.
history of claims made and settlements to enable management
If the time between the recognition of revenue and payment to make a reliable estimate of the provision required to cover
from the customer is expected to be more than one year and unasserted claims. In certain cases, an incurred but not
the impact is material, the amount of consideration is discounted reported (IBNR) actuarial technique is used to determine
using appropriate discount rates. this estimate. In addition, provision is made for legal or other
expenses arising from claims received or other disputes.
Value added tax and other sales taxes are excluded from
revenue. The Group may become involved in legal proceedings, in
respect of which it is not possible to make a reliable estimate
Expenditure
of the expected financial effect, if any, that could result from
Expenditure is recognised in respect of goods and services
ultimate resolution of the proceedings. In these cases,
received when supplied in accordance with contractual terms.
appropriate disclosure about such cases would be included
Provision is made when an obligation exists for a future liability
but no provision would be made.
in respect of a past event and where the amount of the
obligation can be reliably estimated. Manufacturing start-up Costs associated with claims made by the Group against third
costs between validation and the achievement of normal parties are charged to the income statement as they are
production are expensed as incurred. incurred.
GSK Annual Report 2019 173Notes to the financial statements continued
2. Accounting principles and policies continued
Pensions and other post-employment benefits On disposal of PP&E, the cost and related accumulated
The costs of providing pensions under defined benefit schemes depreciation and impairments are removed from the financial
are calculated using the projected unit credit method and statements and the net amount, less any proceeds, is taken
spread over the period during which benefit is expected to to the income statement.
be derived from the employees’ services, consistent with the
Leases (applicable from 1 January 2019)
advice of qualified actuaries. Pension obligations are measured
The Group recognises right of use assets under lease
as the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted
arrangements in which it is the lessee. Rights to use assets
at rates reflecting the yields of high-quality corporate bonds.
owned by third parties under lease agreements are capitalised
Pension scheme assets are measured at fair value at the
at the inception of the lease and recognised on the consolidated
balance sheet date.
balance sheet. The corresponding liability to the lessor is
The costs of other post-employment liabilities are calculated in recognised as a lease obligation within short and long-term
a similar way to defined benefit pension schemes and spread borrowings. The carrying amount is subsequently increased
over the period during which benefit is expected to be derived to reflect interest on the lease liability and reduced by lease
from the employees’ services, in accordance with the advice of payments made.
qualified actuaries.
For calculating the discounted lease liability on leases with
Actuarial gains and losses and the effect of changes in actuarial annual payments of £2 million or more, the implicit rate in the
assumptions are recognised in the statement of comprehensive lease is used. If this is not available, the incremental borrowing
income in the year in which they arise. rate with a lease specific adjustment is used. If neither of these
The Group’s contributions to defined contribution plans are is available, and for leases with annual payments of less than
charged to the income statement as incurred. £2 million, the incremental borrowing rate is used. The
incremental borrowing rate is calculated at the rate of interest
Employee share plans at which GSK would have been able to borrow for a similar term
Incentives in the form of shares are provided to employees and with a similar security the funds necessary to obtain a
under share option and share award schemes. similar asset in a similar market.
The fair values of these options and awards are calculated at Finance costs are charged to the income statement so as to
their grant dates using a Black-Scholes option pricing model produce a constant periodic rate of charge on the remaining
and charged to the income statement over the relevant vesting balance of the obligations for each accounting period.
periods.
Variable rents are not part of the lease liability and the right
The Group provides finance to ESOP Trusts to purchase of use asset. These payments are charged to the income
company shares to meet the obligation to provide shares when statement as incurred. Short-term and low-value leases are
employees exercise their options or awards. Costs of running not capitalised and lease rentals are also charged to the income
the ESOP Trusts are charged to the income statement. Shares statement as incurred.
held by the ESOP Trusts are deducted from other reserves. A
Non-lease components are accounted for separately from the
transfer is made between other reserves and retained earnings
lease components in plant and equipment leases but are not
over the vesting periods of the related share options or awards
separately accounted for in land and buildings or vehicle leases.
to reflect the ultimate proceeds receivable from employees on
exercise. If modifications or reassessments occur, the lease liability and
right of use asset are re-measured.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment (PP&E) is stated at the cost of Right of use assets where title is expected to pass to GSK at
purchase or construction, less provisions for depreciation and a point in the future are depreciated on a basis consistent with
impairment. Financing costs are capitalised within the cost of similar owned assets. In other cases, right of use assets are
qualifying assets in construction. depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset or
the lease term.
Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost less residual
value of PP&E, excluding freehold land, using the straight-line Goodwill
basis over the expected useful life. Residual values and lives Goodwill is stated at cost less impairments. Goodwill is
are reviewed, and where appropriate adjusted annually. The deemed to have an indefinite useful life and is tested for
normal expected useful lives of the major categories of impairment at least annually.
PP&E are:
Where the fair value of the interest acquired in an entity’s
assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the
Freehold buildings 20 to 50 years
consideration paid, this excess is recognised immediately
Leasehold land and buildings Lease term or 20 to 50 years
as a gain in the income statement.
Plant and machinery 10 to 20 years
Equipment and vehicles 3 to 10 years
174 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
2. Accounting principles and policies continued
Other intangible assets Investments in associates, joint ventures and joint
Intangible assets are stated at cost less provisions for operations
amortisation and impairments. Investments in associates and joint ventures are carried in the
consolidated balance sheet at the Group’s share of their net
Licences, patents, know-how and marketing rights separately
assets at date of acquisition and of their post-acquisition
acquired or acquired as part of a business combination are
retained profits or losses together with any goodwill arising
amortised over their estimated useful lives, generally not
on the acquisition. The Group recognises its rights to assets,
exceeding 20 years, using the straight-line basis, from the
liabilities, revenue and expenses of joint operations.
time they are available for use. The estimated useful lives for
determining the amortisation charge take into account patent Inventories
lives, where applicable, as well as the value obtained from Inventories are included in the financial statements at the lower
periods of non-exclusivity. Asset lives are reviewed, and where of cost (including raw materials, direct labour, other direct costs
appropriate adjusted, annually. and related production overheads) and net realisable value.
Contingent milestone payments are recognised at the point Cost is generally determined on a first in, first out basis.
that the contingent event becomes probable. Any development Pre-launch inventory is held as an asset when there is a high
costs incurred by the Group and associated with acquired probability of regulatory approval for the product. Before that
licences, patents, know-how or marketing rights are written off point a provision is made against the carrying value to its
to the income statement when incurred, unless the criteria for recoverable amount; the provision is then reversed at the point
recognition of an internally-generated intangible asset are met, when a high probability of regulatory approval is determined.
usually when a regulatory filing has been made in a major market
Financial instruments (applicable from 1 January 2018)
and approval is considered highly probable.
Financial assets
Acquired brands are valued independently as part of the fair
Financial assets are measured at amortised cost, fair value
value of businesses acquired from third parties where the brand
through other comprehensive income (FVTOCI) or fair value
has a value which is substantial and long-term and where the
through profit or loss (FVTPL). The measurement basis is
brands either are contractual or legal in nature or can be sold
determined by reference to both the business model for
separately from the rest of the businesses acquired. Brands
managing the financial asset and the contractual cash flow
are amortised over their estimated useful lives of up to 20 years,
characteristics of the financial asset. For financial assets other
except where it is considered that the useful economic life is
than trade receivables a 12-month expected credit loss (ECL)
indefinite.
allowance is recorded on initial recognition. If there is
The costs of acquiring and developing computer software for subsequent evidence of a significant increase in the credit risk
internal use and internet sites for external use are capitalised of an asset, the allowance is increased to reflect the full lifetime
as intangible fixed assets where the software or site supports ECL. If there is no realistic prospect of recovery, the asset is
a significant business system and the expenditure leads to the written off.
creation of a durable asset. ERP systems software is amortised
Expected credit losses are recognised in the income statement
over seven to ten years and other computer software over three
on financial assets measured at amortised cost and at fair value
to five years.
through other comprehensive income apart from equity
Impairment of non-current assets investments.
The carrying values of all non-current assets are reviewed for
Other investments
impairment, either on a stand-alone basis or as part of a larger
Other investments comprise equity investments and
cash generating unit, when there is an indication that the assets
investments in limited life funds. The Group has elected to
might be impaired. Additionally, goodwill, intangible assets with
designate equity investments as measured at FVTOCI. They
indefinite useful lives and intangible assets which are not yet
are initially recorded at fair value plus transaction costs and
available for use are tested for impairment annually. Any
then remeasured at subsequent reporting dates to fair value.
provision for impairment is charged to the income statement
Unrealised gains and losses are recognised in other
in the year concerned.
comprehensive income.
Impairments of goodwill are not reversed. Impairment losses on
On disposal of the equity investment, gains and losses that have
other non-current assets are only reversed if there has been a
been deferred in Other comprehensive income are transferred
change in estimates used to determine recoverable amounts
directly to retained earnings. Investments in limited life funds are
and only to the extent that the revised recoverable amounts do
measured at FVTPL. They are initially recorded at fair value and
not exceed the carrying values that would have existed, net of
then remeasured at subsequent reporting dates to fair value.
depreciation or amortisation, had no impairments been
Unrealised gains and losses are recognised in the income
recognised.
statement.
GSK Annual Report 2019 175Notes to the financial statements continued
2. Accounting principles and policies continued
Dividends on equity investments and distributions from funds Derivative financial assets and liabilities, including derivatives
are recognised in the income statement when the Group’s right embedded in host contracts which have been separated from
to receive payment is established. the host contract, are classified as held-for-trading and are
measured at fair value. Changes in the fair value of any derivative
Purchases and sales of Other investments are accounted for
instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are
on the trade date.
recognised immediately in the income statement.
Trade receivables
Hedge accounting
Trade receivables are measured in accordance with the
Derivatives designated as hedging instruments are classified
business model under which each portfolio of trade receivables
at inception of hedge relationship as cash flow hedges, net
is held. The Group has portfolios in each of the three business
investment hedges or fair value hedges.
models under IFRS 9 due to factoring arrangements in place: to
collect the contractual cash flows (measured at amortised cost), Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow
to sell the contractual cash flows (measured at FVTPL), and both hedges are recognised in other comprehensive income to the
to collect and to sell the contractual cash flows (measured at extent that the hedges are effective. Ineffective portions are
FVTOCI). Trade receivables measured at amortised cost are recognised in profit or loss immediately. Amounts deferred in
carried at the original invoice amount less allowances for other comprehensive income are reclassified to the income
expected credit losses. statement when the hedged item affects profit or loss.
Expected credit losses are calculated in accordance with the Net investment hedges are accounted for in a similar way to
simplified approach permitted by IFRS 9, using a provision matrix cash flow hedges.
applying lifetime historical credit loss experience to the trade
Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as fair value
receivables. The expected credit loss rate varies depending
hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with the
on whether, and the extent to which, settlement of the trade
changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability.
receivables is overdue and it is also adjusted as appropriate to
reflect current economic conditions and estimates of future Taxation
conditions. For the purpose of determining credit loss rates, Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid,
customers are classified into groupings that have similar loss applying tax rates that have been enacted or substantively
patterns. The key drivers of the loss rate are the nature of the enacted by the balance sheet date.
business unit and the location and type of customer.
Deferred tax is provided in full, on temporary differences arising
When a trade receivable is determined to have no reasonable between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying
expectation of recovery it is written off, firstly against any amounts in the financial statements. Deferred tax assets are
expected credit loss allowance available and then to the recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable
income statement. profits will be available against which the temporary differences
can be utilised. Deferred tax is provided on temporary
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously provided for or
differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, associates
written off are credited to the income statement. Long-term
and joint ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of the
receivables are discounted where the effect is material.
temporary difference can be controlled and it is probable that
Cash and cash equivalents the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable
Cash held in deposit accounts is measured at amortised cost. future. Deferred tax is provided using rates of tax that have been
Investments in money market funds are held at fair value through enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
profit or loss because the funds fail the solely payments of
Where an uncertain tax position is identified, management will
principal and interest (SPPI) test.
make a judgement as to what the probable outcome will be,
assuming the relevant tax authority has full knowledge of the
Borrowings
situation. Where it is assessed that an economic outflow is
All borrowings are initially recorded at the amount of proceeds
probable to arise a provision is made for the best estimate of the
received, net of transaction costs. Borrowings are subsequently
liability. In estimating any such liability GSK applies a risk-based
carried at amortised cost, with the difference between the
approach which takes into account, as appropriate, the
proceeds, net of transaction costs, and the amount due on
probability that the Group would be able to obtain
redemption being recognised as a charge to the income
compensatory adjustments under international tax treaties.
statement over the period of the relevant borrowing.
These estimates take into account the specific circumstances
Derivative financial instruments of each dispute and relevant external advice.
Derivative financial instruments are used to manage exposure
Discounting
to market risks. The principal derivative instruments used by
Where the time value of money is material, balances are
GSK are foreign currency swaps, interest rate swaps, foreign
discounted to current values using appropriate discount rates.
exchange forward contracts and options. The Group does not
The unwinding of the discounts is recorded in finance income
hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or
and finance expense.
speculative purposes.
176 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
2. Accounting principles and policies continued
Revenue (applicable up to 31 December 2017) When a trade receivable is determined to be uncollectable it is
Revenue is recognised in the income statement when goods or written off, firstly against any provision available and then to the
services are supplied or made available to external customers income statement.
against orders received, title and risk of loss is passed to the
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously provided for are
customer, reliable estimates can be made of relevant deductions
credited to the income statement. Long-term receivables are
and all relevant obligations have been fulfilled, such that the
discounted where the effect is material.
earnings process is regarded as being complete.
Borrowings
Turnover represents net invoice value after the deduction of
All borrowings are initially recorded at the amount of proceeds
discounts and allowances given and accruals for estimated
received, net of transaction costs. Borrowings are subsequently
future rebates and returns. The methodology and assumptions
carried at amortised cost, with the difference between the
used to estimate rebates and returns are monitored and
proceeds, net of transaction costs, and the amount due on
adjusted regularly in the light of contractual and legal
redemption being recognised as a charge to the income
obligations, historical trends, past experience and projected
statement over the period of the relevant borrowing.
market conditions. Market conditions are evaluated using
wholesaler and other third-party analyses, market research data
Derivative financial instruments and hedging
and internally-generated information. Value added tax and other
Derivative financial instruments are used to manage exposure to
sales taxes are excluded from revenue.
market risks. The principal derivative instruments used by GSK
Where the Group co-promotes a product and the counterparty are foreign currency swaps, interest rate swaps, foreign
records the sale, the Group records its share of revenue as exchange forward contracts and options. The Group does not
co-promotion income within turnover. The nature of co- hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or
promotion activities is such that the Group records no costs speculative purposes.
of sales. In addition, initial or event-based milestone income
Derivative financial instruments are classified as held-for-trading
(excluding royalty income) arising on development or marketing
and are carried in the balance sheet at fair value. Derivatives
collaborations of the Group’s compounds or products with
designated as hedging instruments are classified on inception
other parties is recognised in turnover.
as cash flow hedges, net investment hedges or fair value
Royalty income is recognised on an accruals basis in hedges.
accordance with the terms of the relevant licensing agreements.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow
Financial instruments (applicable up to hedges are recognised in other comprehensive income to the
31 December 2017) extent that the hedges are effective. Ineffective portions are
recognised in profit or loss immediately. Amounts deferred in
Available-for-sale investments
other comprehensive income are reclassified to the income
Liquid investments and other investments are classified as
statement when the hedged item affects profit or loss.
available-for-sale investments and are initially recorded at fair
value plus transaction costs and then remeasured at subsequent Net investment hedges are accounted for in a similar way to
reporting dates to fair value. Unrealised gains and losses on cash flow hedges.
available-for-sale investments are recognised directly in other
Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as fair value
comprehensive income. Impairments arising from the significant
hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with the
or prolonged decline in fair value of an equity investment reduce
changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability.
the carrying amount of the asset directly and are charged to the
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do
income statement.
not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in
On disposal or impairment of the investments, any gains and
the income statement.
losses that have been deferred in other comprehensive income
are reclassified to the income statement. Dividends on equity Leases (applicable up to 31 December 2018)
investments are recognised in the income statement when the Leasing agreements which transfer to the Group substantially
Group’s right to receive payment is established. Equity all the benefits and risks of ownership of an asset are treated
investments are recorded in non-current assets unless they as finance leases, as if the asset had been purchased outright.
are expected to be sold within one year. The assets are included in PP&E or computer software and the
capital elements of the leasing commitments are shown as
Purchases and sales of equity investments are accounted for on
obligations under finance leases. Assets held under finance
the trade date and purchases and sales of other available-for-
leases are depreciated on a basis consistent with similar owned
sale investments are accounted for on settlement date.
assets or the lease term, if shorter. The interest element of the
Trade receivables lease rental is included in the income statement. All other leases
Trade receivables are carried at original invoice amount less any are operating leases and the rental costs are charged to the
provisions for doubtful debts. Provisions are made where there income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
is evidence of a risk of non-payment, taking into account ageing,
previous experience and general economic conditions.
GSK Annual Report 2019 177Notes to the financial statements continued
3. Key accounting judgements and estimates
In preparing the financial statements, management is required Taxation
to make judgements about when or how items should be The tax charge for the year was £953 million (2018 –
recognised in the financial statements and estimates and £754 million). At December 2019, current tax payable was
assumptions that affect the amounts of assets, liabilities, £629 million (2018 – £965 million), non-current corporation
revenue and expenses reported in the financial statements. tax payable was £189 million (2018 – £272 million) and current
Actual amounts and results could differ from those estimates. tax recoverable was £262 million (2018 – £229 million).
The following are considered to be the critical accounting
Estimates
judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty.
The Group has open tax issues with a number of revenue
Turnover authorities. Management makes a judgement of whether there is
Reported Group turnover for 2019 was £33,754 million sufficient information to be able to make a reliable estimate of
(2018 – £30,821 million). the outcome of the dispute. If insufficient information is available,
no provision is made.
Estimates
Gross turnover is reduced by rebates, discounts, allowances If sufficient information is available, in estimating a potential tax
and product returns given or expected to be given, which liability GSK applies a risk-based approach which takes into
vary by product arrangements and buying groups. These account, as appropriate, the probability that the Group would
arrangements with purchasing organisations are dependent be able to obtain compensatory adjustments under international
upon the submission of claims some time after the initial tax treaties. These estimates take into account the specific
recognition of the sale. Accruals are made at the time of sale circumstances of each dispute and relevant external advice,
for the estimated rebates, discounts or allowances payable or are inherently judgemental and could change substantially over
returns to be made, based on available market information and time as each dispute progresses and new facts emerge.
historical experience. At 31 December 2019, the Group had recognised provisions
The US Pharmaceuticals business has the largest and most of £933 million in respect of uncertain tax positions (2018 –
complex arrangements for rebates, discounts and allowances. £1,082 million). Because of the nature of these uncertain
The US Pharmaceuticals turnover for 2019 of £7,402 million positions, it is not practicable to give meaningful sensitivity
(2018 – £7,453 million) was after recording deductions of estimates.
£11,069 million (2018 – £10,774 million) for rebates, discounts, Factors affecting the tax charge in future years are set out in
allowances and returns. The balance sheet accruals for rebates, Note 14, ‘Taxation’. GSK continues to believe that it has made
discounts, allowances and returns for the US Pharmaceuticals adequate provision for the liabilities likely to arise from open
and Vaccines businesses are managed on a combined basis. assessments. Where open issues exist, the ultimate liability
At 31 December 2019, the total accrual amounted to £4,200 for such matters may vary from the amounts provided and is
million (2018 – £4,356 million). Because of the nature of these dependent upon the outcome of negotiations with the relevant
accruals it is not practicable to give meaningful sensitivity tax authorities or, if necessary, litigation proceedings.
estimates.
Legal and other disputes
Because the amounts are estimated they may not fully reflect
Legal costs for the year were £363 million (2018 – £117
the final outcome, and the amounts are subject to change
million). At 31 December 2019 provisions for legal and other
dependent upon, amongst other things, the types of buying
disputes amounted to £198 million (2018 – £219 million).
group and product sales mix.
Estimates
The level of accrual for rebates and returns is reviewed and
Management makes a judgement of whether there is sufficient
adjusted regularly in the light of contractual and legal
information to be able to make a reliable estimate of the likely
obligations, historical trends, past experience and projected
outcome of the dispute and the legal and other expenses arising
market conditions. Market conditions are evaluated using
from claims against the Group. If insufficient information is
wholesaler and other third-party analyses, market research data
available, no provision is made and disclosure of the claim is
and internally-generated information. Revenue is not recognised
given.
in full until it is highly probable that a significant reversal in the
amount of cumulative revenue recognised will not occur. The The estimated provisions take into account the specific
amount of turnover recognised in the year from performance circumstances of each dispute and relevant external advice, are
obligations satisfied in previous periods is set out in Note 6, inherently judgemental and could change substantially over time
‘Turnover and segment information’. as each dispute progresses and new facts emerge. Details of
the status and various uncertainties involved in the significant
Future events could cause the assumptions on which the
unresolved disputes are set out in Note 46, ‘Legal proceedings’.
accruals are based to change, which could materially affect
the future results of the Group.
178 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
3. Key accounting judgements and estimates continued
The company’s Directors, having taken legal advice, have Pensions and other post-employment benefits
established provisions after taking into account the relevant
Judgement
facts and circumstances of each matter and in accordance with
Where a surplus on a defined benefit scheme arises, or
accounting requirements. In respect of product liability claims
there is potential for a surplus to arise from committed future
related to certain products, there is sufficient history of claims
contributions, the rights of the Trustees to prevent the Group
made and settlements to enable management to make a reliable
obtaining a refund of that surplus in the future are considered
estimate of the provision required to cover unasserted claims.
in determining whether it is necessary to restrict the amount of
The Group may become involved in legal proceedings, in respect
the surplus that is recognised. Two UK schemes are in surplus,
of which it is not possible to make a reliable estimate of the
with a combined surplus of £70 million at 31 December 2019
expected financial effect, if any, or practicable to give a
(2018 – £711 million). GSK has made the judgement that these
meaningful range of outcomes that could result from ultimate
amounts meet the requirements of recoverability.
resolution of the proceedings. In these cases, appropriate
disclosure about such cases would be provided, but no provision Estimates
would be made and no contingent liability can be quantified. The costs of providing pensions and other post-employment
benefits are assessed on the basis of assumptions selected by
The ultimate liability for legal claims may vary from the amounts
management. These assumptions include future earnings and
provided and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation
pension increases, discount rates, expected long-term rates of
proceedings, investigations and possible settlement negotiations.
return on assets and mortality rates, and are disclosed in Note
The position could change over time and, therefore, there can be
30, ‘Pensions and other post-employment benefits’.
no assurance that any losses that result from the outcome of any
legal proceedings will not exceed the amount of the provisions Discount rates are derived from AA rated corporate bond yields
reported in the Group’s financial statements by a material amount. except in countries where there is no deep market in corporate
bonds where government bond yields are used. A sensitivity
Contingent consideration
analysis is provided in Note 30, ‘Pensions and other post-
The 2019 income statement charge for contingent
employment benefits’, but a 0.5% reduction in the discount
consideration was £83 million (2018 – £1,251 million).
rate would lead to an increase in the net pension deficit of
At 31 December 2019, the liability for contingent consideration approximately £1,640 million and an increase in the annual
amounted to £5,479 million (2018 – £6,286 million). Of this pension cost of approximately £43 million. The selection
amount, £5,103 million (2018 – £5,937 million) related to the of different assumptions could affect the future results of
acquisition of the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture the Group.
in 2012.
Estimates
Any contingent consideration included in the consideration
payable for a business combination is recorded at fair value at
the date of acquisition. These fair values are generally based on
risk-adjusted future cash flows discounted using appropriate
post-tax discount rates. The fair values are reviewed on a
regular basis, at least annually, and any changes are reflected in
the income statement. See Note 32, ‘Contingent consideration
liabilities’.
4. New accounting requirements
The following new and amended accounting standards have ‘Interest rate benchmark reform – Amendments to IFRS 9,
been issued by the IASB and are likely to affect future Annual IAS 39 and IFRS 7’ was issued in September 2019 and will be
Reports. implemented by the Group from 1 January 2020. These
amendments modify specific hedge accounting requirements to
An amendment to IFRS 3 ‘Business combinations’ was issued
allow hedge accounting to continue for affected hedges during
in October 2018 and will be implemented by the Group in
the period of uncertainty before the hedged items or hedging
2020. The amendment clarifies the definition of a business and
instruments referencing the current interest rate benchmarks are
permits a simplified initial assessment of whether an acquired
amended as a result of the ongoing interest rate benchmark
set of activities and assets is a group of assets rather than a
reforms.
business.
The amendments are not expected to have a material impact on
The amendment will apply prospectively to acquisitions
the results or financial position of the Group.
completed after its implementation date and will not change
the accounting for any acquisitions before that date.
GSK Annual Report 2019 179Notes to the financial statements continued
5. Exchange rates
The Group uses the average of exchange rates prevailing during the period to translate the results and cash flows of overseas
subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates into Sterling and period end rates to translate the net assets of those entities. The
currencies which most influence these translations and the relevant exchange rates were:
2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017
Average rates: Period end rates:
US$/£ 1.28 1.33 1.30 US$/£ 1.32 1.27 1.35
Euro/£ 1.14 1.13 1.15 Euro/£ 1.18 1.11 1.13
Yen/£ 139 147 145 Yen/£ 143 140 152
6. Turnover and segment information
Operating segments are reported based on the financial information provided to the Chief Executive Officer and the responsibilities
of the Corporate Executive Team (CET). GSK reports results under four segments: Pharmaceuticals; Pharmaceuticals R&D;
Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare, and individual members of the CET are responsible for each segment.
The Group’s management reporting process allocates intra-Group profit on a product sale to the market in which that sale is
recorded, and the profit analyses below have been presented on that basis.
Corporate and other unallocated turnover and costs included the results of certain Consumer Healthcare products which are being
held for sale in a number of markets in order to meet anti-trust approval requirements, together with the costs of corporate functions.
Revenue recognised in the year from performance obligations satisfied in previous periods totalled £793 million (2018 – £426 million)
and included £451 million (2018 – £122 million) reported in turnover arising from changes to prior year estimates of RAR accruals
and £328 million (2018 – £299 million) of royalty income.
2019 2018 2017
Turnover by segment £m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals 17,554 17,269 17,276
Vaccines 7,157 5,894 5,160
Consumer Healthcare 8,995 7,658 7,750
Segment turnover 33,706 30,821 30,186
Corporate and other unallocated turnover 48 – –
33,754 30,821 30,186
GSK has reviewed the presentation of its respiratory product sales and from 1 January 2019 is reporting the Ellipta products
portfolio and Nucala under the ‘Respiratory’ category and all other respiratory products under ‘Established Pharmaceuticals’.
Comparative information has been revised onto a consistent basis.
2018 2017
2019 (revised) (revised)
Pharmaceuticals turnover by therapeutic area £m £m £m
Respiratory 3,081 2,612 1,930
HIV 4,854 4,722 4,350
Immuno-inflammation 613 472 377
Oncology 230 – –
Established Pharmaceuticals 8,776 9,463 10,619
17,554 17,269 17,276
2019 2018 2017
Vaccines turnover by category £m £m £m
Meningitis 1,018 881 890
Influenza 541 523 488
Shingles 1,810 784 22
Established Vaccines 3,788 3,706 3,760
7,157 5,894 5,160
180 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
6. Turnover and segment information continued
During 2019, the US operations of the Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines businesses made sales to three wholesalers of approximately
£2,835 million (2018 – £2,709 million, 2017 – £2,449 million), £3,146 million (2018 – £2,962 million, 2017 – £3,043 million) and
£2,820 million (2018 – £2,656 million, 2017 – £2,356 million) respectively, after allocating final-customer discounts to the
wholesalers.
2019 2018 2017
Consumer Healthcare turnover by category £m £m £m
Wellness 4,526 3,940 4,001
Oral health 2,673 2,496 2,466
Nutrition 1,176 643 680
Skin health 620 579 603
8,995 7,658 7,750
2019 2018 2017
Segment profit
£m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals 7,964 8,420 8,667
Pharmaceuticals R&D (3,369) (2,676) (2,740)
Pharmaceuticals, including R&D 4,595 5,744 5,927
Vaccines 2,966 1,943 1,644
Consumer Healthcare 1,874 1,517 1,373
Segment profit 9,435 9,204 8,944
Corporate and other unallocated costs (463) (459) (376)
Other reconciling items between segment profit and operating profit (2,011) (3,262) (4,481)
Operating profit 6,961 5,483 4,087
Finance income 98 81 65
Finance costs (912) (798) (734)
Profit on disposal of interest in associates – 3 94
Share of after-tax profits of associates and joint ventures 74 31 13
Profit before taxation 6,221 4,800 3,525
Taxation (953) (754) (1,356)
Profit after taxation for the year 5,268 4,046 2,169
Other reconciling items between segment profit and operating profit comprise items not specifically allocated to segment profit.
These include impairment and amortisation of intangible assets; major restructuring costs, which include impairments of tangible
assets and computer software; transaction-related adjustments related to significant acquisitions; proceeds and costs of disposals
of associates, products and businesses, significant legal charges and expenses on the settlement of litigation and government
investigations, other operating income other than royalty income and other items, and the pre-tax impact of the enactment of the
US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.
2019 2018 2017
Depreciation and amortisation by segment
£m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals 606 506 551
Pharmaceuticals R&D 230 123 96
Pharmaceuticals, including R&D 836 629 647
Vaccines 418 395 405
Consumer Healthcare 224 146 135
Segment depreciation and amortisation 1,478 1,170 1,187
Corporate and other unallocated depreciation and amortisation 79 106 144
Other reconciling items between segment depreciation and amortisation and
total depreciation and amortisation 777 580 591
Total depreciation and amortisation 2,334 1,856 1,922
GSK Annual Report 2019 181Notes to the financial statements continued
6. Turnover and segment information continued
2019 2018 2017
PP&E, intangible asset and goodwill impairment by segment
£m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals 137 51 38
Pharmaceuticals R&D 16 15 10
Pharmaceuticals, including R&D 153 66 48
Vaccines 33 5 13
Consumer Healthcare – 4 10
Segment impairment 186 75 71
Corporate and other unallocated impairment 19 14 3
Other reconciling items between segment impairment and total impairment 621 261 995
Total impairment 826 350 1,069
PP&E and intangible asset impairment reversals by segment
Pharmaceuticals (6) (4) (13)
Pharmaceuticals R&D – (1) (2)
Pharmaceuticals, including R&D (6) (5) (15)
Vaccines (1) – –
Consumer Healthcare – – (1)
Segment impairment reversals (7) (5) (16)
Corporate and other unallocated impairment reversals (3) – –
Other reconciling items between segment impairment reversals and total impairment reversals (15) (8) (36)
Total impairment reversals (25) (13) (52)
2019 2018
Net assets by segment £m £m
Pharmaceuticals 1,722 869
Pharmaceuticals R&D 4,503 502
Pharmaceuticals, including R&D 6,225 1,371
Vaccines 8,828 9,966
Consumer Healthcare 26,328 10,559
Segment net operating assets 41,381 21,896
Corporate and other unallocated net operating assets 1,446 1,141
Net operating assets 42,827 23,037
Net debt (25,215) (21,621)
Investments in associates and joint ventures 314 236
Derivative financial instruments 335 129
Current and deferred taxation (270) 1,723
Assets held for sale (excluding cash and cash equivalents) 366 168
Net assets 18,357 3,672
The Pharmaceuticals segment includes the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare contingent consideration liability of £5,103 million
(2018 – £5,937 million) and the Pfizer put option of £1,011 million (2018 – £1,240 million). Net assets in the Pharmaceuticals
and Consumer Healthcare segments have increased during the year, following the acquisitions of Tesaro and the Pfizer consumer
healthcare business, respectively.
182 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
6. Turnover and segment information continued
Geographical information
The UK is regarded as being the Group’s country of domicile.
2019 2018 2017
Turnover by location of customer £m £m £m
UK 942 923 940
US 13,890 11,982 11,263
Rest of World 18,922 17,916 17,983
External turnover 33,754 30,821 30,186
2019 2018
Non-current assets by location of subsidiary £m £m
UK 6,116 6,118
US 19,483 7,540
Rest of World 27,696 20,768
Non-current assets 53,295 34,426
Non-current assets by location excludes amounts relating to other investments, deferred tax assets, derivative financial instruments,
pension assets, amounts receivable under insurance contracts and certain other non-current receivables.
7. Other operating income/(expense)
2019 2018 2017
£m £m £m
Fair value remeasurements of equity investments under IFRS 9 (14) 20 –
Disposal of businesses and assets 541 258 195
Fair value remeasurements on contingent consideration recognised in business combinations (92) (1,252) (1,012)
Remeasurement of ViiV Healthcare put option liabilities and preferential dividends 234 58 13
Remeasurement of Consumer Healthcare put option liability – (658) (1,186)
Fair value adjustments on derivative financial instruments – (3) 9
Other income/(expense) 20 (11) 9
Impairment of available-for-sale equity investments under IAS 39 – – (30)
Disposal of available-for-sale equity investments under IAS 39 – – 37
689 (1,588) (1,965)
Disposal of businesses and assets in 2019 included a profit on disposal of rabies and tick-borne encephalitis vaccines of
£306 million and a gain arising from the increase in value of the shares in Hindustan Unilever Limited to be received on the
disposal of Horlicks and other Consumer Healthcare brands of £143 million including fair value movements on related derivatives.
Fair value remeasurements on contingent consideration recognised in business combinations included £31 million related to
the acquisition of the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture and £67 million related to the Vaccines acquisition from
Novartis, together with fair value movements on related hedging contracts.
GSK Annual Report 2019 183Notes to the financial statements continued
8. Operating profit
2019 2018 2017
The following items have been included in operating profit: £m £m £m
Employee costs (Note 9) 9,855 9,440 9,122
Advertising 1,567 1,376 1,351
Distribution costs 393 389 405
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 1,017 954 988
Impairment of property, plant and equipment, net of reversals 669 203 327
Depreciation of right of use assets 214
Impairment of right of use assets 2
Amortisation of intangible assets 1,103 902 934
Impairment of intangible assets, net of reversals 126 134 690
Impairment of goodwill allocated to a disposal group, net of reversals 4 – –
Net foreign exchange (gains)/losses (37) 81 215
Inventories:
Cost of inventories included in cost of sales 9,482 8,713 8,526
Write-down of inventories 578 695 701
Reversal of prior year write-down of inventories (230) (302) (352)
Short-term lease charge 12
Low-value lease charge 4
Variable lease payments 13
Operating lease rentals:
Minimum lease payments 188 110
Contingent rents 12 4
Sub-lease payments 5 5
Fees payable to the company’s auditor and its associates in relation to the Group (see below) 30.4 29.8 29.2
The reversals of prior year write-downs of inventories principally arise from the reassessment of usage or demand expectations
prior to inventory expiration.
Net foreign exchange gains include a net gain of £75 million (2018 – £nil; 2017 – £109 million loss) arising on the reclassification
of exchange on liquidation or disposal of overseas subsidiaries.
Included within operating profit are Major restructuring charges of £1,105 million (2018 – £809 million; 2017 – £1,056 million),
see Note 10, ‘Major restructuring costs’.
2019 2018 2017
Fees payable to the company’s auditor and its associates: £m £m £m
Audit of parent company and consolidated financial statements including attestation under s.404
of Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 15.6 13.3 11.5
Audit of the company’s subsidiaries 13.5 12.9 16.2
Total audit services 29.1 26.2 27.7
Taxation compliance – 0.1 0.2
Taxation advice – – 0.1
Audit related and other assurance services 1.2 3.0 1.0
All other services 0.1 0.5 0.2
Total audit-related and non-audit services 1.3 3.6 1.5
30.4 29.8 29.2
The other assurance services provided by the auditor related to agreed upon procedures and other assurance services outside of
statutory audit requirements. All other services provided by the auditor primarily related to advisory services for the year ended
31 December 2019.
In addition to the above, fees paid to the auditor in respect of the GSK pension schemes were:
2019 2018 2017
£m £m £m
Audit 0.2 0.3 0.3
Other services – – 0.1
Fees of £0.8 million (2018 – £nil, 2017 – £nil) were also paid to other auditors in respect of audits of certain of the company’s
subsidiaries acquired during the year.
184 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
9. Employee costs
2019 2018 2017
£m £m £m
Wages and salaries 7,583 7,203 7,116
Social security costs 852 795 802
Pension and other post-employment costs, including augmentations (Note 30) 560 586 616
Cost of share-based incentive plans 432 393 347
Severance and other costs from integration and restructuring activities 428 463 241
9,855 9,440 9,122
The increase in wages and salaries included the impact of movements in exchange rates. The Group provides benefits to
employees, commensurate with local practice in individual countries, including, in some markets, healthcare insurance,
subsidised car schemes and personal life assurance.
The cost of share-based incentive plans is analysed as follows:
2019 2018 2017
£m £m £m
Share Value Plan 302 304 276
Performance Share Plan 58 49 47
Share option plans 4 4 4
Cash settled and other plans 68 36 20
432 393 347
The average monthly number of persons employed by the Group (including Directors) during the year was:
2019 2018 2017
Number Number Number
Manufacturing 36,653 37,296 38,632
Selling, general and administration 48,535 47,887 49,141
Research and development 12,026 11,668 11,576
97,214 96,851 99,349
The average monthly number of Group employees excludes temporary and contract staff. The numbers of Group employees at the
end of each financial year are given in the financial record on page 265.
The compensation of the Directors and Senior Management (members of the CET) in aggregate, was as follows:
2019 2018 2017
£m £m £m
Wages and salaries 28 29 26
Social security costs 4 3 4
Pension and other post-employment costs 3 3 3
Cost of share-based incentive plans 27 20 22
62 55 55
Further information on the remuneration of the Directors is given in the Remuneration report on pages 116 to 150.
GSK Annual Report 2019 185Notes to the financial statements continued
10. Major restructuring costs
Within the Pharmaceuticals sector, the highly regulated manufacturing operations and supply chains and long lifecycle of the
business mean that restructuring programmes, particularly those that involve the rationalisation or closure of manufacturing or R&D
sites, are likely to take several years to complete.
Major restructuring costs are those related to specific Board-approved Major restructuring programmes, including integration costs
following material acquisitions, which are structural and are of a significant scale where the costs of individual or related projects
exceed £25 million.
The existing Combined restructuring and integration programme incorporates the previous Major Change programme, the
Pharmaceuticals restructuring programme and the restructuring and integration programme following the Novartis transaction in
2015. This programme is now subsequently complete. In July 2018, the Board-approved a Major restructuring programme,
designed to significantly improve the competitiveness and efficiency of the Group’s cost base with savings delivered primarily
through supply chain optimisation and reductions in administrative costs. In February 2019, the Board-approved a new Major
restructuring programme to generate synergies from the integration of the Pfizer consumer healthcare business into GSK’s
Consumer Healthcare business.
The total restructuring costs of £1,105 million in 2019 were incurred in the following areas:
– Manufacturing site restructuring, including at Worthing, United Kingdom and Cork, Ireland
– Restructuring following the integration of the Pfizer consumer healthcare business into GSK Consumer Healthcare
– Restructuring of the Pharmaceutical and Consumer Healthcare supply chains leading to simplification of the operating model
and improved resource allocation
– Continued transformation of central functions, including GSK technology platforms and interfaces, to deliver greater digital
synergies, simplification of applications and staff reductions.
The analysis of the costs charged to operating profit under these programmes was as follows:
2019 2018 2017
£m £m £m
Increase in provision for Major restructuring programmes (see Note 31) 345 450 259
Amount of provision reversed unused (see Note 31) (148) (99) (43)
Impairment losses recognised 521 130 278
Other non-cash charges 99 72 247
Other cash costs 288 256 315
1,105 809 1,056
Provision reversals of £148 million (2018 – £99 million, 2017 – £43 million) reflected provision releases for the Combined
restructuring and integration programme. Asset impairments of £521 million and other non-cash charges of £99 million principally
comprised fixed asset write-downs across manufacturing and research facilities and accelerated depreciation where asset lives in
R&D and manufacturing have been shortened as a result of the Major restructuring programmes. All other charges have been or will
be settled in cash and include the termination of leases, site closure costs, consultancy and project management costs.
The analysis of Major restructuring charges by programme was as follows:
2019
Cash Non-cash Total
£m £m £m
2018 major restructuring programme (including Tesaro) 227 572 799
Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture integration programme 248 4 252
Combined restructuring and integration programme 10 44 54
485 620 1,105
The analysis of Major restructuring charges by income statement line was as follows:
2019 2018 2017
£m £m £m
Cost of sales 658 443 545
Selling, general and administration 332 315 248
Research and development 114 49 263
Other operating expense 1 2 –
1,105 809 1,056
186 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
11. Finance income
2019 2018 2017
£m £m £m
Years to 31 December 2019 and 31 December 2018 under IFRS 9
Finance income arising from:
Financial assets measured at amortised cost 69 73
Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss 10 1
Net gains arising from the forward element of forward contracts in net investment hedge relationships 19 7
Year to 31 December 2017 under IAS 39
Interest income arising from:
Cash and cash equivalents 60
Available-for-sale investments 2
Loans and receivables 1
Fair value adjustments on derivatives at fair value through profit or loss 2
98 81 65
Finance income arising from financial assets measured at amortised cost in 2019 and 2018 includes interest income arising from
assets which would have been classified as available-for-sale investments and loans and receivables in 2017 under IAS 39. This
also includes interest income arising from certain cash and cash equivalents. Finance income arising from financial assets
measured at fair value through profit or loss in 2019 and 2018 includes interest income arising from other cash and cash
equivalents.
Net gains arising from hedge ineffectiveness on net investment hedges were recorded in ‘Fair value adjustments on derivatives at
fair value through profit or loss’ in 2017. All derivatives accounted for at fair value through profit or loss other than designated and
effective hedging instruments (see Note 43, ‘Financial instruments and related disclosures’) are classified as held-for-trading
financial instruments.
12. Finance expense
2019 2018 2017
£m £m £m
Finance expense arising on:
Financial liabilities at amortised cost (832) (677) (698)
Derivatives at fair value through profit or loss (6) (38) (22)
Net losses arising from:
Financial instruments mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss (1) 3 (4)
Reclassification of hedges from other comprehensive income (2) (2) –
Unwinding of discounts on provisions (8) (15) (16)
Finance expense arising on lease liabilities (39) (2) (1)
Other finance expense (24) (67) 7
(912) (798) (734)
All derivatives accounted for at fair value through profit or loss, other than designated and effective hedging instruments (see
Note 43, ‘Financial instruments and related disclosures’), are classified as held-for-trading financial instruments. Finance expense
arising on derivatives at fair value through profit or loss relates to swap interest expense. The prior year figures in finance expense
arising on lease liabilities related to interest arising on finance leases under the previous leasing standard, IAS 17, which was
originally reported in ‘Other finance expense’. In 2018, other finance expense included a £39 million charge for interest relating to
historical income tax settlements.
GSK Annual Report 2019 187Notes to the financial statements continued
13. Associates and joint ventures
The Group’s share of after-tax profits and losses of associates and joint ventures is set out below:
2019 2018 2017
£m £m £m
Share of after-tax profits of associates 85 28 16
Share of after-tax (losses)/profits of joint ventures (11) 3 (3)
74 31 13
At 31 December 2019, the Group held one significant associate, Innoviva, Inc.
Summarised income statement information in respect of Innoviva is set out below. The Group’s 2019 share of after-tax profits of
associates and other comprehensive income includes a profit of £79 million and other comprehensive income of £nil in respect
of Innoviva.
The results of Innoviva included in the summarised income statement information below represent the estimated earnings of
Innoviva in the relevant periods, based on publicly available information at the balance sheet date. Innoviva’s turnover arises from
royalty income from GSK in relation to Relvar/Breo Ellipta, Anoro Ellipta and Trelegy Ellipta sales.
2019 2018 2017
£m £m £m
Turnover 193 183 165
Profit after taxation 116 134 103
Other comprehensive income – – –
Total comprehensive income 116 134 103
The estimated results of Innoviva for 2018 exclude a deferred tax credit of £163 million which was not announced by Innoviva until
after the Group finalised its results for 2018. Accordingly, GSK’s share of this credit of £51 million has been recognised in the
share of after-tax profits of associates in 2019.
Aggregated financial information in respect of GSK’s share of other associated undertakings and joint ventures is set out below:
2019 2018 2017
£m £m £m
Share of turnover 32 242 252
Share of after-tax (losses)/profits (5) (2) (5)
Share of other comprehensive income 1 – –
Share of total comprehensive (expense)/income (5) (2) (5)
The Group’s sales to associates and joint ventures were £11 million in 2019 (2018 – £43 million; 2017 – £41 million).
188 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
14. Taxation
The Group’s tax charge is the sum of the total current and deferred tax expense.
2019 2018 2017
Taxation charge based on profits for the year £m £m £m
UK current year charge 149 234 199
Rest of World current year charge 1,407 1,426 1,928
Credit in respect of prior periods (420) (492) (508)
Current taxation 1,136 1,168 1,619
Deferred taxation (183) (414) (263)
953 754 1,356
In 2019, GSK made payments of £163 million in UK corporation tax to HMRC. These amounts are for UK corporation tax only,
and do not include the various other business taxes borne in the UK by GSK each year.
The deferred tax credit in 2019 reflected the origination of current year expenses where offset against taxable profits in future
periods is probable. In 2018, this also included an uplift in the tax carrying value of certain Consumer Healthcare brands as a result
of the acquisition of Novartis’ interest in the former Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture.
The deferred tax credit in 2017 reflected the revaluation of existing deferred tax liabilities to reflect a lower Swiss tax rate applicable
following Swiss tax reform and an increase in deferred tax assets related to intra-Group profit on inventory. The impact of these
items was partly offset by the revaluation of existing deferred tax assets to reflect the lower US tax rate applicable following the
enactment of US tax reform.
The following table reconciles the tax charge calculated at the UK statutory rate on the Group profit before tax with the actual tax
charge for the year.
2018 2017
2019 2019 (revised) 2018 (revised) 2017
Reconciliation of taxation on Group profits £m % £m % £m %
Profit before tax 6,221 4,800 3,525
UK statutory rate of taxation 1,182 19.0 912 19.0 679 19.3
Differences in overseas taxation rates 667 10.7 635 13.2 586 16.6
Benefit of intellectual property incentives (691) (11.1) (482) (10.0) (410) (11.6)
R&D credits (119) (1.9) (73) (1.5) (75) (2.1)
Fair value remeasurement of non-taxable put options (45) (0.7) 221 4.6 227 6.5
Tax losses where no benefit is recognised 15 0.2 24 0.5 28 0.8
Permanent differences on disposals and acquisitions 68 1.1 (7) (0.1) 4 0.1
Other permanent differences 119 1.9 53 1.1 162 4.6
Re-assessments of prior year estimates (364) (5.9) (436) (9.1) (475) (13.5)
Changes in tax rates 121 2.0 (93) (1.9) 629 17.8
Tax charge/tax rate 953 15.3 754 15.7 1,356 38.5
GSK has a substantial business presence in many countries around the world. The impact of differences in overseas taxation rates
arose from profits being earned in countries with tax rates higher than the UK statutory rate, the most significant of which in 2019
were the US, Belgium, India and Japan. The adverse impact was partly offset by the increased benefit of intellectual property
incentives such as the UK Patent Box and Belgian Patent Income Deduction regimes. Such regimes provide a reduced rate of
corporate income tax on profits earned from qualifying patents. We claim these incentives in the manner intended by the relevant
statutory or regulatory framework.
In 2019, ‘Changes in tax rates’ included items of expense where tax relief will only be available in future periods at lower rates
due to the reduction in statutory tax rates in the UK and Belgium to 17% and 25% respectively. The impact of US and Swiss tax
reform has been incorporated into the ‘Changes in tax rates’ category for the years 2017 and 2018. The respective values are
£595 million debit and £125 million credit.
The Group’s 2019 tax rate of 15.3% has been influenced by the reassessment of open issues with tax authorities in various
jurisdictions and fair value accounting movements on the Group’s put option liabilities to ViiV Healthcare and on hedges against
shares in Hindustan Unilever Limited to be received on disposal of Horlicks and other Consumer Healthcare brands.
Future tax charges, and therefore our effective tax rate, may be affected by factors such as acquisitions, disposals, restructurings,
the location of research and development activity, tax regime reforms and resolution of open matters as we continue to bring our
tax affairs up to date around the world.
GSK Annual Report 2019 189Notes to the financial statements continued
14. Taxation continued
2019 2018 2017
Tax on items charged to equity and statement of comprehensive income £m £m £m
Current taxation
Share-based payments 1 – –
Defined benefit plans 16 (2) 26
17 (2) 26
Deferred taxation
Share-based payments 18 2 (4)
Defined benefit plans 173 (144) (247)
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges 16 (2) –
Fair value movements on equity investments (95) 10 29
112 (134) (222)
Total credit/(charge) to equity and statement of comprehensive income 129 (136) (196)
All of the above items have been charged to the statement of comprehensive income except for tax on share-based payments.
Issues relating to taxation
The integrated nature of the Group’s worldwide operations involves significant investment in research and strategic manufacture at
a limited number of locations, with consequential cross-border supply routes into numerous end-markets. In line with current OECD
guidelines we base our transfer pricing policy on the ‘arm’s length’ principle. However, different tax authorities may seek to attribute
further profit to activities being undertaken in their jurisdiction potentially resulting in double taxation. The Group also has open
items in several jurisdictions concerning such matters as the deductibility of particular expenses and the tax treatment of certain
business transactions. GSK applies a risk based approach to determine the transactions most likely to be subject to challenge,
assuming the relevant tax authority will review and have full knowledge of all the relevant information, and the probability that the
Group would be able to obtain compensatory adjustments under international tax treaties.
The calculation of the Group’s total tax charge therefore necessarily involves a degree of estimation and judgement in respect of
certain items where the tax treatment cannot be finally determined until resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority
or, as appropriate, through a formal legal process. At 31 December 2019 the Group had recognised provisions of £933 million in
respect of such uncertain tax positions (2018 – £1,082 million). The decrease in recognised provisions during 2019 was driven by
the reassessment of estimates and the utilisation of provisions for uncertain tax positions following the settlement of a number of
open issues with tax authorities in various jurisdictions. Whilst the ultimate liability for such matters may vary from the amounts
provided and is dependent upon the outcome of agreements with the relevant tax authorities, or litigation where appropriate, the
Group continues to believe that it has made appropriate provision for periods which are open and not yet agreed by the tax
authorities.
A provision for deferred tax liabilities of £198 million as at 31 December 2019 (2018 – £185 million) has been made in respect
of taxation that would be payable on the remittance of profits by certain overseas subsidiaries. Whilst the aggregate amount of
unremitted profits at the balance sheet date was approximately £19 billion (2018 – £18 billion), the majority of these unremitted
profits would not be subject to tax (including withholding tax) on repatriation, as UK legislation relating to company distributions
provides for exemption from tax for most overseas profits, subject to certain exceptions. Deferred tax is not provided on temporary
differences of £326 million (2018 – £231 million) arising on unremitted profits as management has the ability to control any future
reversal and does not consider such a reversal to be probable.
190 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
14. Taxation continued
Movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities
Pensions & Share Other
Accelerated other post option net
capital Intangible Contingent Intra-Group employment Tax and award temporary
allowances assets consideration profit benefits losses schemes differences Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2018 (317) (1,320) 868 1,017 760 261 74 1,057 2,400
Exchange adjustments (6) (4) – 43 38 2 2 9 84
Credit/(charge) to income statement (12) 365 (34) (31) 33 183 (7) (101) 396
Credit/(charge) to statement of
comprehensive income and equity – – – – (144) – 2 8 (134)
Reclassification on disposal – – – – 7 1 – (23) (15)
At 31 December 2018 (335) (959) 834 1,029 694 447 71 950 2,731
Implementation of IFRS 16 40 – – – – – – – 40
At 31 December 2018, as adjusted (295) (959) 834 1,029 694 447 71 950 2,771
Exchange adjustments 17 88 – (8) (40) (8) (1) 55 103
Credit/(charge) to income statement 35 (204) (77) 59 9 225 (7) 143 183
Credit/(charge) to statement of
comprehensive income and equity – – – – 186 – 18 (92) 112
Acquisitions and disposals 1 (3,117) – 40 15 278 – (60) (2,843)
R&D credits utilisation – – – – – – – (40) (40)
At 31 December 2019 (242) (4,192) 757 1,120 864 942 81 956 286
Deferred tax liabilities provided in relation to intangible assets predominately relate to temporary differences arising on assets and
liabilities acquired as part of historic business combinations. Acquisitions and disposals in 2019 included deferred tax liabilities of
£2,591 million related to the Pfizer consumer healthcare business acquisition and £252 million related to the Tesaro acquisition.
The Group continues to recognise deferred tax assets on future obligations in respect of contingent consideration amounts payable
to minority shareholders. These payments are tax deductible at the point in time at which payment is made.
A deferred tax asset is recognised on intra-Group profits arising on inter-company inventory which are eliminated within the
consolidated accounts. As intra-Group profits are not eliminated from the individual entities’ tax returns a temporary difference arises
that will reverse at the point in time inventory is sold externally.
The deferred tax asset recognised on tax losses of £942 million (2018 – £447 million) relates to trading losses. Included in this
amount are deferred tax assets of £237 million in relation to losses which are recognised on the basis that sufficient future taxable
profits to utilise the losses are forecast in the entities to which the losses relate. Other net temporary differences included accrued
expenses for which a tax deduction was only available on a paid basis, such as for pensions.
Deferred tax asset and liabilities are recognised on the balance sheet as follows:
2019 2018
£m £m
Deferred tax assets 4,096 3,887
Deferred tax liabilities (3,810) (1,156)
286 2,731
Deferred tax assets are recognised on US foreign tax credits only where it is probable that future taxable profits will be available.
The net amount of foreign tax credits on which deferred tax has not been provided was £93 million (2018 – £114 million).
2019 2018
Unrecognised Unrecognised
deferred tax deferred tax
Tax losses asset Tax losses asset
Unrecognised tax losses £m £m £m £m
Trading losses expiring:
Within 10 years 556 117 678 148
More than 10 years 838 108 957 93
Available indefinitely 159 27 89 15
At 31 December 1,553 252 1,724 256
Capital losses expiring:
Available indefinitely 2,148 355 2,042 399
At 31 December 2,148 355 2,042 399
GSK Annual Report 2019 191Notes to the financial statements continued
15. Earnings per share
2019 2018 2017
pence pence pence
Basic earnings per share 93.9 73.7 31.4
Diluted earnings per share 92.6 72.9 31.0
Basic earnings per share has been calculated by dividing the profit attributable to shareholders by the weighted average number of
shares in issue during the period after deducting shares held by the ESOP Trusts and Treasury shares. The trustees have waived
their rights to dividends on the shares held by the ESOP Trusts.
Diluted earnings per share has been calculated after adjusting the weighted average number of shares used in the basic calculation
to assume the conversion of all potentially dilutive shares. A potentially dilutive share forms part of the employee share schemes
where its exercise price is below the average market price of GSK shares during the period and any performance conditions
attaching to the scheme have been met at the balance sheet date.
The numbers of shares used in calculating basic and diluted earnings per share are reconciled below.
2019 2018 2017
Weighted average number of shares in issue
millions millions millions
Basic 4,947 4,914 4,886
Dilution for share options and awards 69 57 55
Diluted 5,016 4,971 4,941
16. Dividends
2019 2018 2017
Dividend Total Dividend Total Dividend Total
per share dividend per share dividend per share dividend
Paid/payable (pence) £m Paid (pence) £m Paid (pence) £m
First interim 11 July 2019 19 940 12 July 2018 19 934 13 July 2017 19 928
Second interim 10 October 2019 19 941 11 October 2018 19 934 12 October 2017 19 929
Third interim 9 January 2020 19 941 10 January 2019 19 935 11 January 2018 19 929
Fourth interim 9 April 2020 23 1,139 11 April 2019 23 1,137 12 April 2018 23 1,130
Total 80 3,961 80 3,940 80 3,916
Under IFRS, interim dividends are only recognised in the financial statements when paid and not when declared. GSK normally
pays a dividend two quarters after the quarter to which it relates and one quarter after it is declared. The 2019 financial statements
recognise those dividends paid in 2019, namely the third and fourth interim dividends for 2018, and the first and second interim
dividends for 2019.
The amounts recognised in each year were as follows:
2019 2018 2017
£m £m £m
Dividends to shareholders 3,953 3,927 3,906
192 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
17. Property, plant and equipment
Plant,
Land and equipment Assets in
buildings and vehicles construction Total
£m £m £m £m
Cost at 1 January 2018 7,467 11,751 2,501 21,719
Exchange adjustments 150 187 25 362
Other additions 33 190 1,135 1,358
Capitalised borrowing costs – – 21 21
Disposals and write-offs (90) (440) (53) (583)
Reclassifications 403 1,016 (1,486) (67)
Transfer to assets held for sale (152) (167) (3) (322)
Cost at 31 December 2018 7,811 12,537 2,140 22,488
Implementation of IFRS 16 (64) (106) – (170)
At 31 December 2018, as adjusted 7,747 12,431 2,140 22,318
Exchange adjustments (254) (381) (70) (705)
Additions through business combinations 149 177 34 360
Other additions 42 154 1,084 1,280
Capitalised borrowing costs – – 25 25
Disposals and write-offs (34) (528) (11) (573)
Reclassifications 243 919 (1,231) (69)
Transfer to assets held for sale (261) (711) (65) (1,037)
Cost at 31 December 2019 7,632 12,061 1,906 21,599
Depreciation at 1 January 2018 (3,036) (7,260) – (10,296)
Exchange adjustments (61) (111) – (172)
Charge for the year (268) (686) – (954)
Disposals and write-offs 77 401 – 478
Transfer to assets held for sale 55 122 – 177
Depreciation at 31 December 2018 (3,233) (7,534) – (10,767)
Implementation of IFRS 16 30 42 – 72
At 31 December 2018, as adjusted (3,203) (7,492) – (10,695)
Exchange adjustments 74 196 – 270
Charge for the year (265) (752) – (1,017)
Disposals and write-offs 19 380 – 399
Transfer to assets held for sale 159 477 – 636
Depreciation at 31 December 2019 (3,216) (7,191) – (10,407)
Impairment at 1 January 2018 (161) (359) (43) (563)
Exchange adjustments (8) (4) (1) (13)
Disposals and write-offs 10 59 22 91
Impairment losses (16) (143) (46) (205)
Reversal of impairments 1 6 – 7
Transfer to assets held for sale – 20 – 20
Impairment at 31 December 2018 (174) (421) (68) (663)
Implementation of IFRS 16 – – – –
At 31 December 2018, as adjusted (174) (421) (68) (663)
Exchange adjustments 13 11 6 30
Disposals and write-offs 2 77 36 115
Impairment losses (312) (329) (38) (679)
Reversal of impairments 2 8 – 10
Transfer to assets held for sale 90 209 44 343
Impairment at 31 December 2019 (379) (445) (20) (844)
Total depreciation and impairment at 31 December 2018 (3,407) (7,955) (68) (11,430)
Total depreciation and impairment at 31 December 2019 (3,595) (7,636) (20) (11,251)
Net book value at 1 January 2018 4,270 4,132 2,458 10,860
Net book value at 31 December 2018 4,404 4,582 2,072 11,058
Net book value at 31 December 2019 4,037 4,425 1,886 10,348
GSK Annual Report 2019 193Notes to the financial statements continued
17. Property, plant and equipment continued
The weighted average interest rate for capitalised borrowing costs in the year was 3% (2018 – 3%). Disposals and write-offs in the
year included a number of assets with nil net book value that are no longer in use in the business.
The impairment losses principally arose from decisions to rationalise facilities and are calculated based on either fair value less
costs of disposal or value in use. The fair value less costs of disposal valuation methodology uses significant inputs which are not
based on observable market data, and therefore this valuation technique is classified as level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. These
calculations determine the net present value of the projected risk-adjusted, post-tax cash flows of the relevant asset or cash
generating unit, applying a discount rate of the Group post-tax weighted average cost of capital (WACC) of 7%, adjusted where
appropriate for specific segment, country and currency risk. For value in use calculations, the post-tax cash flows do not include
the impact of future uncommitted restructuring plans or improvements. Where an impairment is indicated and a pre-tax cash flow
calculation is expected to give a materially different result, the test would be reperformed using pre-tax cash flows and a pre-tax
discount rate. The Group WACC is equivalent to a pre-tax discount rate of approximately 9%. The net impairment losses have
been charged to cost of sales: £624 million (2018 – £142 million), R&D: £1 million (2018 – £9 million) and SG&A: £44 million
(2018 – £54 million), and included £502 million (2018 – £138 million) arising from the Major restructuring programmes.
Reversals of impairment arose from subsequent reviews of the impaired assets where the conditions which gave rise to the original
impairments were deemed no longer to apply. All of the reversals have been credited to cost of sales.
During 2019, £69 million (2018 – £67 million) of computer software was reclassified from assets in construction to intangible
assets on becoming ready for use.
18. Right of use assets
Land and Plant and
buildings equipment Vehicles Total
£m £m £m £m
Net book value at 1 January 2019 907 27 137 1,071
Exchange adjustments (28) (2) (6) (36)
Additions through business combinations 66 11 2 79
Other additions 60 1 71 132
Depreciation (145) (8) (61) (214)
Disposals (37) (20) (7) (64)
Impairments (2) – – (2)
Reclassifications – 13 (13) –
Net book value at 31 December 2019 821 22 123 966
The total cash outflow for leases amounted to £214 million. There were no significant lease commitments for leases not
commenced at year-end.
An analysis of lease liabilities is set out in Note 29, ‘Net debt’.
194 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
19. Goodwill
2019 2018
£m £m
Cost at 1 January 5,789 5,734
Exchange adjustments (277) 199
Additions through business combinations (Note 40) 5,023 –
Transfer from/(to) assets held for sale 27 (144)
Cost at 31 December 10,562 5,789
Net book value at 1 January 5,789 5,734
Net book value at 31 December 10,562 5,789
Goodwill is allocated to the Group’s segments as follows:
2019 2018
£m £m
Pharmaceuticals 4,316 3,273
Vaccines 1,280 1,342
Consumer Healthcare 4,966 1,174
Net book value at 31 December 10,562 5,789
The recoverable amounts of the cash generating units are assessed using a fair value less costs of disposal model. Fair value less
costs of disposal is calculated using a discounted cash flow approach, with a post-tax discount rate applied to the projected
risk-adjusted post-tax cash flows and terminal value.
The discount rate used is based on the Group WACC of 7%, as most cash generating units have integrated operations across
large parts of the Group. The discount rate is adjusted where appropriate for specific segment, country and currency risks. The
valuation methodology uses significant inputs which are not based on observable market data, therefore this valuation technique is
classified as level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.
Details relating to the discounted cash flow models used in the impairment tests of the Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and Consumer
Healthcare cash generating units are as follows:
Valuation basis Fair value less costs of disposal
Key assumptions Sales growth rates
Profit margins
Terminal growth rate
Discount rate
Taxation rate
Determination of assumptions Growth rates are internal forecasts based on both internal and external market information.
Margins reflect past experience, adjusted for expected changes.
Terminal growth rates based on management’s estimate of future long-term average growth rates.
Discount rates based on Group WACC, adjusted where appropriate.
Taxation rates based on appropriate rates for each region.
Period of specific projected cash flows Five years
Terminal growth rate and discount rate Terminal growth rate Discount rate
Pharmaceuticals 1% p.a. 7.5%
Vaccines 1% p.a. 7.5%
Consumer Healthcare 2% p.a. 6%
The terminal growth rates do not exceed the long-term projected growth rates for the relevant markets, reflect the impact of future
generic competition and take account of new product launches.
Goodwill is monitored for impairment at the segmental level. In each case the valuations indicated sufficient headroom such that a
reasonably possible change to key assumptions is unlikely to result in an impairment of the related goodwill.
The Pharmaceuticals cash generating unit comprises a collection of smaller cash generating units including assets with indefinite
lives with a carrying value of £nil (2018 – £236 million). The Consumer Healthcare cash generating unit also comprises a collection
of smaller cash generating units including brands with indefinite lives with a carrying value of £19.6 billion (2018 – £8.5 billion).
Details of indefinite life brands are given in Note 20, ‘Other intangible assets’.
GSK Annual Report 2019 195Notes to the financial statements continued
20. Other intangible assets
Licences,
patents,
Computer amortised Indefinite life
software brands etc. brands Total
£m £m £m £m
Cost at 1 January 2018 2,174 15,764 8,993 26,931
Exchange adjustments 32 264 63 359
Capitalised development costs – 203 – 203
Capitalised borrowing costs 1 – – 1
Other additions 173 154 – 327
Disposals and asset write-offs (80) (129) – (209)
Transfer to assets held for sale (2) (90) – (92)
Reclassifications 67 – – 67
Cost at 31 December 2018 2,365 16,166 9,056 27,587
Exchange adjustments (37) (418) (1,037) (1,492)
Capitalised development costs – 239 – 239
Capitalised borrowing costs 1 – – 1
Additions through business combinations 31 3,091 12,357 15,479
Other additions 197 465 – 662
Disposals and asset write-offs (235) (7) – (242)
Transfer to assets held for sale (7) (62) (227) (296)
Reclassifications 82 242 (255) 69
Cost at 31 December 2019 2,397 19,716 19,894 42,007
Amortisation at 1 January 2018 (1,111) (5,787) – (6,898)
Exchange adjustments (24) (107) – (131)
Charge for the year (240) (662) – (902)
Disposals and asset write-offs 67 124 – 191
Transfer to assets held for sale 1 19 – 20
Amortisation at 31 December 2018 (1,307) (6,413) – (7,720)
Exchange adjustments 19 123 – 142
Charge for the year (233) (870) – (1,103)
Disposals and asset write-offs 215 4 – 219
Transfer to assets held for sale 4 42 – 46
Amortisation at 31 December 2019 (1,302) (7,114) – (8,416)
Impairment at 1 January 2018 (9) (2,207) (255) (2,471)
Exchange adjustments – (89) – (89)
Impairment losses (17) (51) (69) (137)
Reversal of impairments – 3 – 3
Disposals and asset write-offs 14 4 – 18
Transfer to assets held for sale – 11 – 11
Impairment at 31 December 2018 (12) (2,329) (324) (2,665)
Exchange adjustments 3 70 – 73
Impairment losses (49) (84) (3) (136)
Reversal of impairments – 10 – 10
Disposals and asset write-offs 19 3 – 22
Transfer to assets held for sale 2 5 53 60
Impairment at 31 December 2019 (37) (2,325) (274) (2,636)
Total amortisation and impairment at 31 December 2018 (1,319) (8,742) (324) (10,385)
Total amortisation and impairment at 31 December 2019 (1,339) (9,439) (274) (11,052)
Net book value at 1 January 2018 1,054 7,770 8,738 17,562
Net book value at 31 December 2018 1,046 7,424 8,732 17,202
Net book value at 31 December 2019 1,058 10,277 19,620 30,955
The weighted average interest rate for capitalised borrowing costs in the year was 3% (2018 – 3%).
The net book value of computer software included £560 million (2018 – £578 million) of internally generated costs.
The carrying value at 31 December 2019 of intangible assets, for which impairments have been charged or reversed in the year,
following those impairments or reversals, was £175 million (2018 – £73 million).
The patent expiry dates of the Group’s most significant assets, where relevant, are set out on pages 272 and 273.
196 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
20. Other intangible assets continued
Amortisation and impairment losses, net of reversals, have been charged in the income statement as follows:
Amortisation Net impairment losses
2019 2018 2019 2018
£m £m £m £m
Cost of sales 781 593 34 69
Selling, general and administration 163 178 43 19
Research and development 159 131 49 46
1,103 902 126 134
Licences, patents, amortised brands etc. includes a large number of acquired licences, patents, know-how agreements and
marketing rights, which are either marketed or in use, or still in development. Note 40, ‘Acquisitions and disposals’ gives details of
additions through business combinations in the year. The book values of the largest individual items are as follows:
2019 2018
£m £m
Zejula 2,878 –
Meningitis portfolio 2,139 2,363
Dolutegravir 1,280 1,319
Benlysta 834 905
BMS 286 277
Merck Assets 264 –
Fluarix/FluLaval 237 274
Stiefel trade name 204 –
Others 2,155 2,286
10,277 7,424
The Meningitis portfolio includes Menveo, Bexsero, Men ABCWY and Menjugate. The Stiefel trade name has been moved into
licences, patents, amortised brands etc. following the decision to start amortisation during 2019.
Indefinite life brands comprise a portfolio of Consumer Healthcare products primarily acquired with the acquisitions of Sterling
Winthrop, Inc. in 1994, Block Drug Company, Inc. in 2001, CNS, Inc. in 2006, the Novartis consumer healthcare business in 2015
and the Pfizer consumer healthcare business in 2019. The book values of the major brands are as follows:
2019 2018
£m £m
Advil 3,408 –
Voltaren 2,725 2,735
Centrum 1,808 –
Caltrate 1,648 –
Otrivin 1,385 1,385
Preparation H 1,171 –
Robitussin 1,138 –
Nexium 682 –
Fenistil 598 651
Chapstick 523 –
Emergen-C 447 –
Theraflu 438 449
Panadol 397 388
Lamisil 291 293
Sensodyne 270 265
Breathe Right 251 262
Stiefel trade name – 236
Others 2,440 2,068
19,620 8,732
GSK Annual Report 2019 197Notes to the financial statements continued
20. Other intangible assets continued
Each of these brands is considered to have an indefinite life, given the strength and durability of the brand and the level of
marketing support. The brands are in relatively similar stable and profitable market sectors, with similar risk profiles, and their
size, diversification and market shares mean that the risk of market-related factors causing a reduction in the lives of the brands
is considered to be relatively low. The Group is not aware of any material legal, regulatory, contractual, competitive, economic or
other factors which could limit their useful lives. Accordingly, they are not amortised.
Each brand is tested annually for impairment and other amortised intangible assets are tested when indicators of impairment arise.
This testing applies a fair value less costs of disposal methodology, generally using post-tax cash flow forecasts with a terminal
value calculation and a discount rate equal to the Group post-tax WACC of 7%, adjusted where appropriate for specific segment,
country and currency risks. This valuation methodology uses significant inputs which are not based on observable market data, and
therefore this valuation technique is classified as level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. The main assumptions include future sales price
and volume growth, product contribution, the future expenditure required to maintain the product’s marketability and registration
in the relevant jurisdictions and exchange rates. These assumptions are based on past experience and are reviewed as part of
management’s budgeting and strategic planning cycle for changes in market conditions and sales erosion through competition.
The terminal growth rates applied of between -2% and 3% are management’s estimates of future long-term average growth rates
of the relevant markets. In each case the valuations indicate sufficient headroom such that a reasonably possible change to key
assumptions is unlikely to result in an impairment of these intangible assets.
21. Investments in associates and joint ventures
Joint 2019 Joint 2018
ventures Associates Total ventures Associates Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 19 217 236 13 170 183
Exchange adjustments (1) (9) (10) 1 11 12
Additions 16 11 27 1 9 10
Disposals (1) – (1) – – –
Distributions received – (7) (7) – (40) (40)
Other movements (7) 2 (5) 1 39 40
Profit/(loss) after tax recognised in the consolidated income statement (11) 85 74 3 28 31
At 31 December 15 299 314 19 217 236
The Group held one significant associate at 31 December 2019, Innoviva, Inc. At 31 December 2019, the Group owned 32 million
shares or 31.6% of Innoviva, which is a biopharmaceutical company listed on NASDAQ. Innoviva partnered with GSK in the
development of the long acting beta agonist, vilanterol, and currently receives royalty income from sales of products that contain
this component, namely Relvar/Breo Ellipta and Anoro Ellipta. It also has a 15% economic interest in royalties paid by GSK on
sales of Trelegy Ellipta. The remaining 85% of the economic interest in these royalties is held by Theravance Biopharma Inc., in
which the Group holds 17% of the common stock. The investment in Innoviva had a market value of £343 million at 31 December
2019 (2018 – £440 million).
Summarised balance sheet information, based on information published post the balance sheet date, in respect of Innoviva is set
out below:
At 31 December At 31 December
2019 2018
£m £m
Non-current assets 222 275
Current assets 326 157
Current liabilities (4) (4)
Non-current liabilities (286) (302)
Net assets 258 126
The carrying value of the Group’s investment in Innoviva is analysed as follows:
2019 2018
£m £m
Interest in net assets of associate 82 40
Goodwill 88 91
Fair value and other adjustments 91 58
Carrying value at 31 December 261 189
198 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
22. Other investments
Investments Investments
designated as Investments designated as Investments
measured at measured at measured at measured at
FVTOCI FVTPL 2019 FVTOCI FVTPL 2018
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 1,250 72 1,322 869 49 918
Additions 274 3 277 363 9 372
Net fair value movements through Other comprehensive income 314 – 314 166 – 166
Net fair value movements through profit or loss – (14) (14) – 20 20
Disposals and settlements (57) (5) (62) (89) (6) (95)
Transfers to Assets held for sale – – – (59) – (59)
At 31 December 1,781 56 1,837 1,250 72 1,322
Other investments comprise non-current equity investments which are recorded at fair value at each balance sheet date. For
investments traded in an active market, the fair value is determined by reference to the relevant stock exchange quoted bid price.
For other investments, the fair value is estimated by management with reference to relevant available information, including the
current market value of similar instruments, recent financing rounds and discounted cash flows of the underlying net assets. Net
fair value movements include the impact of exchange (losses of £66 million through Other comprehensive income and £2 million
through profit or loss) (2018 – gains of £48 million and £4 million respectively). Other investments include listed investments of
£1,128 million (2018 – £656 million).
GSK has elected to designate the majority of its equity investments as measured at fair value through other comprehensive income
(FVTOCI). The most significant of these investments held at 31 December 2019 were in 23andMe in which the Group holds
14.5% of the common stock, Progyny, Inc. in which the Group holds 12.5%, Theravance Biopharma, Inc. in which the Group
holds 17.0% and Lyell Immunopharma, Inc in which the Group holds 15.0%. These investments had a fair value at 31 December
2019 of £227 million (2018 – £229 million), £213 million (2018 – £21 million), £189 million (2018 – £194 million) and £155 million,
respectively. No other investment is individually material. The other investments include equity stakes in companies with which GSK
has research collaborations and in companies which provide access to biotechnology developments of potential interest.
On disposal of equity investments measured at FVTOCI, the accumulated fair value movements are reclassified from the fair value
reserve to retained earnings. Investments with a fair value of £57 million (2018 – £148 million) were disposed of during the year.
The cumulative gain on these investments after tax was £4 million (2018 – £56 million).
Certain other investments, such as investments in funds with limited lives, are measured at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL).
Investments with a fair value of £5 million were disposed of during the year.
Cumulative impairments on those Other investments designated as measured at FVTOCI under IFRS 9 were transferred from
retained earnings to the fair value reserve on 1 January 2018 on adoption of IFRS 9.
23. Other non-current assets
2019 2018
£m £m
Amounts receivable under insurance contracts 743 675
Pension schemes in surplus 127 760
Other receivables 150 141
1,020 1,576
Amounts receivable under insurance contacts are held at fair value through profit or loss.
Within the other receivables of £150 million (2018 – £141 million), £88 million (2018 – £89 million) is classified as financial assets
of which £44 million (2018 – £41 million) is classified as fair value through profit or loss. On the remaining balance of £44 million
(2018 – £48 million), the expected credit loss allowance was immaterial at 31 December 2019 and 2018.
GSK Annual Report 2019 199Notes to the financial statements continued
24. Inventories
2019 2018
£m £m
Raw materials and consumables 1,195 1,122
Work in progress 2,505 2,286
Finished goods 2,247 2,068
5,947 5,476
25. Trade and other receivables
2019 2018
£m £m
Trade receivables, net of loss allowance 5,487 5,176
Accrued income 7 9
Other prepayments 316 330
Interest receivable 3 4
Employee loans and advances 13 14
Other receivables 1,376 890
7,202 6,423
Trade receivables included £nil (2018 – £15 million) due from associates and joint ventures. Other receivables included £nil
(2018 – £nil) due from associates and joint ventures.
2019 2018
Loss allowance
£m £m
At 1 January 128 140
Implementation of IFRS 9 – 15
At 1 January, as adjusted 128 155
Exchange adjustments (3) –
Charge for the year 16 7
Subsequent recoveries of amounts provided for (5) (30)
Utilised (6) (4)
At 31 December 130 128
Of the total trade receivables balance, £110 million (2018 – £71 million) was considered credit impaired, against which an
£11 million (2018 – £7 million) expected credit loss allowance has been applied. No amount was purchased or originated
credit impaired.
Within the other receivables of £1,376 million (2018 – £890 million), £707 million (2018 – £376 million) was classified as financial
assets of which £nil (2018 – £41 million) was classified as fair value through profit and loss. On the remaining balance of £707
million (2018 – £335 million), an expected credit loss allowance of £8 million (2018 – £5 million) was recognised at 31 December
2019 with no charge reported in profit or loss during the year.
For more discussion on credit risk practices, please refer to Note 43.
200 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
26. Cash and cash equivalents
2019 2018
£m £m
Cash at bank and in hand 795 569
Short-term deposits 3,912 3,305
4,707 3,874
In addition, £507 million (2018 – £485 million) of cash and cash equivalents has been reported in Assets held for sale, see
Note 27, ‘Assets held for sale’.
Cash and cash equivalents included £0.2 billion (2018 – £0.2 billion) not available for general use due to restrictions applying
in the subsidiaries where it is held. Restrictions include exchange controls and taxes on repatriation.
27. Assets held for sale
2019 2018
£m £m
Property, plant and equipment 80 109
Right of use assets 7 –
Lease liabilities (7) –
Goodwill 124 144
Other intangibles 175 1
Inventory 109 50
Cash and cash equivalents 507 485
Other (122) (136)
873 653
Non-current assets and disposal groups are transferred to assets held for sale when it is expected that their carrying amounts
will be recovered principally through disposal and a sale is considered highly probable. They are held at the lower of carrying
amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Assets held for sale primarily reflect the Thermacare disposal group, which was acquired from Pfizer as part of its consumer
healthcare business and has to be sold by the Group in 2020 to meet anti-trust requirements and the disposal group representing
the Horlicks and other Consumer Healthcare nutritional brands to be sold to Unilever plc.
Included within assets held for sale is inventory written down to fair value less costs to sell of £109 million (2018 – £50 million).
The valuation methodology used significant inputs which were not based on observable market data and therefore this valuation
is classified as level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.
An impairment of allocated goodwill of £4 million has been recognised to reflect fair value less costs to sell of a disposal group.
GSK Annual Report 2019 201Notes to the financial statements continued
28. Trade and other payables
2019 2018
£m £m
Trade payables 4,144 3,645
Wages and salaries 1,470 1,355
Social security 164 139
ViiV Healthcare put option 1,011 1,240
Other payables 515 401
Deferred income 158 216
Customer return and rebate accruals 5,108 5,064
Other accruals 2,369 1,977
14,939 14,037
Trade and other payables included £63 million (2018 – £64 million) due to associates and joint ventures. The Group provides
limited supplier financing arrangements to certain customers. The amounts involved at 31 December 2019 were not material.
Revenue recognised in the year that was included in deferred income at 1 January 2019 was £72 million (2018 – £66 million).
Customer return and rebate accruals are provided for by the Group at the point of sale in respect of the estimated rebates,
discounts or allowances payable to customers, and included £4,200 million (2018 – £4,356 million) in respect of US
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines, as more fully described in the Group financial review on page 72. Accruals are made at the time of
sale but the actual amounts paid are based on claims made some time after the initial recognition of the sale. As the amounts are
estimated, they may not fully reflect the final outcome and are subject to change dependent upon, amongst other things, the types
of buying group and product sales mix. The level of accrual is reviewed and adjusted quarterly in light of historical experience of
actual amounts paid and any changes in arrangements. Future events could cause the assumptions on which the accruals are
based to change, which could affect the future results of the Group.
Pfizer’s put option over its shareholding in ViiV Healthcare is currently exercisable. Pfizer may request an IPO of ViiV Healthcare
at any time and if either GSK does not consent to such IPO or an offering is not completed within nine months, Pfizer could
require GSK to acquire its shareholding. The amount of the liability for this put option, which is held on the gross redemption
basis, is derived from an internal valuation of the ViiV Healthcare business, utilising both discounted forecast future cash flow
and multiples-based methodologies.
The table below shows on an indicative basis the income statement and balance sheet sensitivity of the Pfizer put option to
reasonably possible changes in key assumptions.
2019
Increase/(decrease) in financial liability and loss/(gain) in Income statement £m
10% increase in sales forecasts 119
10% decrease in sales forecasts (118)
10 cent appreciation of US Dollar 58
10 cent depreciation of US Dollar (49)
10 cent appreciation of Euro 37
10 cent depreciation of Euro (31)
An explanation of the accounting for ViiV Healthcare is set out on page 51.
202 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
29. Net debt
2019 2018
Listing exchange £m £m
Current assets:
Liquid investments 79 84
Cash and cash equivalents 4,707 3,874
Cash and cash equivalents reported in Assets held for sale 507 485
5,293 4,443
Short-term borrowings:
Commercial paper (3,586) (630)
Bank loans, overdrafts and other (434) (290)
Drawn bank facility (1,000) (3,500)
0.625% € European Medium Term Note 2019 London Stock Exchange – (1,349)
EURIBOR +0.20% € European Medium Term Note 2020 London Stock Exchange (638) –
0.000% € European Medium Term Note 2020 London Stock Exchange (1,020) –
Lease liabilities (240) (24)
(6,918) (5,793)
Long-term borrowings:
EURIBOR +0.20% € European Medium Term Note 2020 London Stock Exchange – (677)
0.000% € European Medium Term Note 2020 London Stock Exchange – (1,079)
3.125% US$ US Medium Term Note 2021 New York Stock Exchange (944) (980)
LIBOR +0.35% US$ US Medium Term Note 2021 New York Stock Exchange (567) (589)
EURIBOR +0.60% € European Medium Term Note 2021 London Stock Exchange (1,281) –
0.000% € European Medium Term Note 2021 London Stock Exchange (426) –
2.850% US$ US Medium Term Note 2022 New York Stock Exchange (1,509) (1,568)
2.875% US$ US Medium Term Note 2022 New York Stock Exchange (1,132) –
2.800% US$ US Medium Term Note 2023 New York Stock Exchange (941) (978)
3.375% US$ US Medium Term Note 2023 New York Stock Exchange (941) (977)
0.000% € European Medium Term Note 2023 London Stock Exchange (425) –
3.000% US$ US Medium Term Note 2024 New York Stock Exchange (751) –
1.375% € European Medium Term Note 2024 London Stock Exchange (844) (893)
4.000% € European Medium Term Note 2025 London Stock Exchange (633) (670)
3.625% US$ US Medium Term Note 2025 New York Stock Exchange (751) (780)
1.000% € European Medium Term Note 2026 London Stock Exchange (593) (629)
1.250% € European Medium Term Note 2026 London Stock Exchange (846) (897)
3.375% £ European Medium Term Note 2027 London Stock Exchange (594) (593)
3.875% US$ US Medium Term Note 2028 New York Stock Exchange (1,319) (1,372)
3.375% US$ US Medium Term Note 2029 New York Stock Exchange (746) –
1.375% € European Medium Term Note 2029 London Stock Exchange (422) (447)
1.750% € European Medium Term Note 2030 London Stock Exchange (635) (673)
5.250% £ European Medium Term Note 2033 London Stock Exchange (983) (982)
5.375% US$ US Medium Term Note 2034 New York Stock Exchange (375) (390)
6.375% US$ US Medium Term Note 2038 New York Stock Exchange (2,061) (2,143)
6.375% £ European Medium Term Note 2039 London Stock Exchange (694) (694)
5.250% £ European Medium Term Note 2042 London Stock Exchange (987) (986)
4.200% US$ US Medium Term Note 2043 New York Stock Exchange (371) (386)
4.250% £ European Medium Term Note 2045 London Stock Exchange (789) (788)
Other long-term borrowings (20) (56)
Lease liabilities (1,010) (44)
(23,590) (20,271)
Net debt (25,215) (21,621)
GSK Annual Report 2019 203Notes to the financial statements continued
29. Net debt continued
Current assets
Liquid investments are classified as financial assets at amortised cost. At 31 December 2019, they included US Treasury Notes
and other government bonds. The effective interest rate on liquid investments at 31 December 2019 was approximately 1.1%
(2018 – approximately 1.0%). Liquid investment balances at 31 December 2019 earning interest at floating rates amount to
£1 million (2018 – £84 million). Liquid investment balances at 31 December 2019 earning interest at fixed rates amount to
£78 million (2018 – £nil).
Balances reported within cash and cash equivalents have an original maturity of three months or less. The effective interest
rate on cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2019 was approximately 1.6% (2018 – approximately 1.9%). Cash
and cash equivalents at 31 December 2019 earning interest at floating and fixed rates amounted to £5,039 million and
£10 million respectively (2018 – £4,094 million and £2 million) and non-interest bearing holdings amounted to £164 million
(2018 – £263 million).
GSK’s policy regarding the credit quality of cash and cash equivalents is set out in Note 43, ‘Financial instruments and
related disclosures’.
Short-term borrowings
GSK has a $10 billion (£7.6 billion) US commercial paper programme, of which $4.8 billion (£3.6 billion) was in issue at
31 December 2019 (2018 – $0.8 billion (£0.6 billion)). GSK has a £1.9 billion three-year committed facility and $2.5 billion
(£1.9 billion) under a 364 day committed facility. Both the three-year committed facility and the 364 day committed facility were
agreed in September 2019 and were undrawn at 31 December 2019. An additional bank facility was agreed in 2018 to support
transactions and remained active at 31 December 2019. In June 2018, £3.5 billion was drawn to support the acquisition from
Novartis of the remaining stake in the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture. £2.5 billion was repaid in November 2019, leaving
£1.0 billion outstanding at 31 December 2019.
The weighted average interest rate on commercial paper borrowings at 31 December 2019 was 1.8% (2018 – 2.5%).
The weighted average interest rate on current bank loans and overdrafts at 31 December 2019 was 4.6% (2018 – 12.0%).
Short-term loan rates of 60% in Argentina had a disproportionate effect on the weighted average interest rate in 2018.
The average effective pre-swap interest rate of notes classified as short-term at 31 December 2019 was 0.0% (2018 – 0.8%).
The continued decrease in the rate reflects the maturities of a EURIBOR +0.20% coupon note in May 2020 and a 0.0% coupon
note in September 2020.
Long-term borrowings
At the year-end, GSK had long-term borrowings of £23.6 billion (2018 – £20.3 billion), of which £13.3 billion (2018 – £13.3 billion)
fell due in more than five years. The average effective pre-swap interest rate of all notes in issue at 31 December 2019 was
approximately 3.8% (2018 – approximately 4.4%).
Long-term borrowings repayable after five years carry interest at effective rates between 1.0% and 6.5%, with repayment dates
ranging from 2025 to 2045.
Pledged assets
The Group held pledged investments in US Treasury Notes with a par value of $50 million (£38 million), (2018 – $50 million
(£39 million)) as security against irrevocable letters of credit issued on the Group’s behalf in respect of the Group’s self-insurance
activity. Provisions in respect of self-insurance are included within the provisions for legal and other disputes discussed in Note 31,
‘Other provisions’.
Lease liabilities
The maturity analysis of discounted lease liabilities recognised on the Group balance sheet is as follows:
2018
2019 (revised)
£m £m
Rental payments due within one year 240 24
Rental payments due between one and two years 227 18
Rental payments due between two and three years 119 12
Rental payments due between three and four years 105 6
Rental payments due between four and five years 93 3
Rental payments due after five years 466 5
Total lease liabilities 1,250 68
204 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
30. Pensions and other post-employment benefits
2019 2018 2017
Pension and other post-employment costs £m £m £m
UK pension schemes 181 246 198
US pension schemes 120 100 113
Other overseas pension schemes 185 190 218
Unfunded post-retirement healthcare schemes 74 50 87
560 586 616
Analysed as:
Funded defined benefit/hybrid pension schemes 300 369 335
Unfunded defined benefit pension schemes 41 43 55
Unfunded post-retirement healthcare schemes 74 50 87
Defined benefit schemes 415 462 477
Defined contribution pension schemes 145 124 139
560 586 616
The costs of the defined benefit pension and post-retirement healthcare schemes are charged in the income statement as follows:
2019 2018 2017
£m £m £m
Cost of sales 149 160 162
Selling, general and administration 195 228 238
Research and development 71 74 77
415 462 477
GSK entities operate pension arrangements which cover the Group’s material obligations to provide pensions to retired employees.
These arrangements have been developed in accordance with local practices in the countries concerned. Pension benefits can be
provided by state schemes; by defined contribution schemes, whereby retirement benefits are determined by the value of funds
arising from contributions paid in respect of each employee; or by defined benefit schemes, whereby retirement benefits are based
on employee pensionable remuneration and length of service.
Pension costs of defined benefit schemes for accounting purposes have been calculated using the projected unit method. In certain
countries pension benefits are provided on an unfunded basis, some administered by trustee companies. Formal, independent,
actuarial valuations of the Group’s main plans are undertaken regularly, normally at least every three years.
Actuarial movements in the year are recognised through the statement of comprehensive income. Discount rates are derived from
AA rated corporate bond yields except in countries where there is no deep market in corporate bonds where government bond
yields are used. Discount rates are selected to reflect the term of the expected benefit payments. Projected inflation rate and
pension increases are long-term predictions based on the yield gap between long-term index-linked and fixed interest Gilts. In the
UK, mortality rates are determined by adjusting the SAPS S2 standard mortality tables to reflect recent scheme experience. These
rates are then projected to reflect improvements in life expectancy in line with the CMI 2018 projections with a long-term rate of
improvement of 1.25% per year for both males and females. In the US, mortality rates are calculated using the RP2014 white collar
table adjusted to reflect recent experience. These rates are projected using MP-2017 to allow for future improvements in life
expectancy.
GSK Annual Report 2019 205Notes to the financial statements continued
30. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
The average life expectancy assumed now for an individual at the age of 60 and projected to apply in 2039 for an individual then at
the age of 60 is as follows:
UK US
Male Female Male Female
Years Years Years Years
Current 27.4 29.0 27.1 28.8
Projected for 2039 28.8 30.5 28.8 30.4
The assets of funded schemes are generally held in separately administered trusts, either as specific assets or as a proportion of a
general fund, or are insurance contracts. Assets are invested in different classes in order to maintain a balance between risk and
return. Investments are diversified to limit the financial effect of the failure of any individual investment. The physical asset allocation
strategy for three of the four UK plans has been adjusted from 55% in return-seeking assets and 45% in liability-matching assets to
45% in return-seeking assets and 55% in liability-matching assets. During 2019, a buy-in insurance contract was purchased to
cover substantially all of the obligations of the other UK plan. At 31 December 2019, the value of the insurance contract was
£607 million. The asset allocation of the US plans is currently set at 30% return-seeking assets and 70% liability-matching assets.
The pension plans are exposed to risk that arises because the estimated market value of the plans’ assets might decline, the
investment returns might reduce, or the estimated value of the plans’ liabilities might increase.
In line with the agreed mix of return-seeking assets to generate future returns and liability-matching assets to better match future
pension obligations, the Group has defined an overall long-term investment strategy for the plans, with investments across a broad
range of assets. The main market risks within the asset and hedging portfolio are against credit risk, interest rates, long-term
inflation, equities, property, currency and bank counterparty risk.
The plan liabilities are a series of future cash flows with relatively long duration. On an IAS 19 basis, these cash flows are sensitive
to changes in the expected long-term inflation rate and the discount rate (AA corporate bond yield curve) where an increase in
long-term inflation corresponds with an increase in the liabilities, and an increase in the discount rate corresponds with a decrease
in the liabilities.
The interest rate risk and credit rate risk in the US are partially hedged. The targets are based on an accounting measure of the
plan liabilities.
For the UK plans, there is an interest rate and inflation hedging strategy in place. The targets are based on an economic measure of
the plan liabilities. Furthermore, the plans also currently hedge a portion of their equity exposure with a staggered maturity profile.
In the UK, the defined benefit pension schemes operated for the benefit of former Glaxo Wellcome employees and former
SmithKline Beecham employees remain separate. These schemes were closed to new entrants in 2001 and subsequent UK
employees are entitled to join a defined contribution scheme. In addition, the Group operates a number of post-retirement
healthcare schemes, the principal one of which is in the US.
The Group has applied the following financial assumptions in assessing the defined benefit liabilities:
UK US Rest of World
2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017
% pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa
Rate of increase of future earnings 2.00 2.00 2.00 4.00 4.00 4.00 2.70 2.70 2.80
Discount rate 2.00 2.90 2.50 3.20 4.20 3.60 1.10 1.80 1.60
Expected pension increases 3.00 3.20 3.20 n/a n/a n/a 2.10 2.10 2.20
Cash balance credit/conversion rate n/a n/a n/a 2.60 3.20 2.90 0.10 0.40 0.30
Inflation rate 3.00 3.20 3.20 2.25 2.25 2.25 1.40 1.50 1.70
Sensitivity analysis detailing the effect of changes in assumptions is provided on page 213. The analysis provided reflects the
assumption changes which have the most material impact on the results of the Group.
206 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
30. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
The amounts recorded in the income statement and statement of comprehensive income for the three years ended 31 December
2019 in relation to the defined benefit pension and post-retirement healthcare schemes were as follows:
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
UK US Rest of World Group Group
2019 £m £m £m £m £m
Amounts charged to operating profit
Current service cost 62 74 130 266 22
Past service cost/(credit) 49 (3) (15) 31 –
Net interest (income)/cost (19) 29 16 26 52
Gains from settlements – – (9) (9) –
Expenses 7 20 – 27 –
99 120 122 341 74
Remeasurement losses recorded in the statement of
comprehensive income (894) (1) (78) (973) (77)
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
UK US Rest of World Group Group
2018 £m £m £m £m £m
Amounts charged to operating profit
Current service cost 75 72 134 281 29
Past service cost/(credit) 93 1 – 94 (27)
Net interest (income)/cost (3) 20 19 36 49
Gains from settlements – – (14) (14) (1)
Expenses 8 7 – 15 –
173 100 139 412 50
Remeasurement gains/(losses) recorded in the statement of
comprehensive income 495 (108) 196 583 145
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
UK US Rest of World Group Group
2017 £m £m £m £m £m
Amounts charged to operating profit
Current service cost 79 70 131 280 30
Past service cost/(credit) 37 – – 37 (2)
Net interest cost 7 31 16 54 59
Expenses 7 12 – 19 –
130 113 147 390 87
Remeasurement gains/(losses) recorded in the statement of
comprehensive income 259 240 (14) 485 64
The amounts included within past service costs in the UK included £58 million (2018 – £43 million; 2017 – £37 million) of
augmentation costs of which £47 million arose from Major restructuring programmes (see Note 31, ‘Other provisions’). In 2018,
past service costs in the UK included a charge of £40 million in relation to the estimated impact of GMP equalisation.
GSK Annual Report 2019 207Notes to the financial statements continued
30. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
A summarised balance sheet presentation of the Group defined benefit pension schemes and other post-retirement benefits is set
out in the table below:
2019 2018 2017
£m £m £m
Recognised in Other non-current assets:
Pension schemes in surplus 127 760 538
Recognised in Assets held for sale:
Post-retirement benefits (9) (9) –
Recognised in Pensions and other post-employment benefits:
Pension schemes in deficit (2,048) (1,755) (2,043)
Post-retirement benefits (1,409) (1,370) (1,496)
(3,457) (3,125) (3,539)
In the event of a plan wind-up, GSK believes the UK pension scheme rules provide the company with the right to a refund of surplus
assets following the full settlement of plan liabilities. As a result, the net surplus in the UK defined benefit pension schemes is
recognised in full.
The fair values of the assets and liabilities of the UK and US defined benefit pension schemes, together with aggregated data for
other defined benefit pension schemes in the Group are as follows:
UK US Rest of World Group
At 31 December 2019 £m £m £m £m
Equities: – listed 2,904 671 638 4,213
– unlisted – – 8 8
Multi-asset funds 2,700 – – 2,700
Property: – listed – – 55 55
– unlisted 460 145 2 607
Corporate bonds: – listed 297 855 141 1,293
– unlisted 326 – 23 349
Government bonds: – listed 4,923 803 889 6,615
Insurance contracts 1,406 – 832 2,238
Other assets (35) 315 74 354
Fair value of assets 12,981 2,789 2,662 18,432
Present value of scheme obligations (13,293) (3,506) (3,554) (20,353)
Net surplus/(obligation) (312) (717) (892) (1,921)
Included in Other non-current assets 70 – 57 127
Included in Pensions and other post-employment benefits (382) (717) (949) (2,048)
(312) (717) (892) (1,921)
Actual return on plan assets 787 356 345 1,488
The multi-asset funds comprise investments in pooled investment vehicles that are invested across a range of asset classes,
increasing diversification within the growth portfolio. The ‘Other assets’ category comprises cash and mark to market values of
derivative positions.
Index-linked gilts held as part of a UK repo programme are included in government bonds. The related loan of £243 million at
31 December 2019 (2018 – £nil; 2017 – £773 million) is deducted within ‘Other assets’.
208 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
30. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
UK US Rest of World Group
At 31 December 2018 £m £m £m £m
Equities: – listed 3,257 1,280 518 5,055
– unlisted – – 7 7
Multi-asset funds 2,997 – – 2,997
Property: – listed – – 33 33
– unlisted 423 231 4 658
Corporate bonds: – listed 404 783 111 1,298
– unlisted 306 – 25 331
Government bonds: – listed 3,835 286 795 4,916
Insurance contracts 770 – 831 1,601
Other assets 589 228 66 883
Fair value of assets 12,581 2,808 2,390 17,779
Present value of scheme obligations (12,087) (3,474) (3,213) (18,774)
Net surplus/(obligation) 494 (666) (823) (995)
Included in Other non-current assets 711 – 49 760
Included in Pensions and other post-employment benefits (217) (666) (872) (1,755)
494 (666) (823) (995)
Actual return on plan assets (88) (123) 55 (156)
UK US Rest of World Group
At 31 December 2017 £m £m £m £m
Equities: – listed 4,902 1,448 544 6,894
– unlisted – – 13 13
Multi-asset funds 2,517 – – 2,517
Property: – unlisted 352 209 32 593
Corporate bonds: – listed 297 820 103 1,220
– unlisted 326 – 20 346
Government bonds: – listed 5,127 239 762 6,128
Insurance contracts 849 – 707 1,556
Other assets (1,216) 158 71 (987)
Fair value of assets 13,154 2,874 2,252 18,280
Present value of scheme obligations (13,101) (3,445) (3,239) (19,785)
Net surplus/(obligation) 53 (571) (987) (1,505)
Included in Other non-current assets 470 – 68 538
Included in Pensions and other post-employment benefits (417) (571) (1,055) (2,043)
53 (571) (987) (1,505)
Actual return on plan assets 893 394 82 1,369
GSK Annual Report 2019 209Notes to the financial statements continued
30. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
UK US Rest of World Group Group
Movements in fair values of assets £m £m £m £m £m
Assets at 1 January 2017 12,583 2,890 2,097 17,570 –
Exchange adjustments – (244) 24 (220) –
Interest income 333 104 33 470 –
Expenses (7) (12) – (19) –
Settlements and curtailments – – (4) (4) –
Remeasurement 560 290 49 899 –
Employer contributions 225 103 116 444 101
Scheme participants’ contributions 4 – 17 21 17
Benefits paid (544) (257) (80) (881) (118)
Assets at 31 December 2017 13,154 2,874 2,252 18,280 –
Exchange adjustments – 171 53 224 –
Interest income 323 102 29 454 –
Expenses (8) (7) – (15) –
Settlements and curtailments – – (14) (14) –
Remeasurement (411) (225) 26 (610) –
Employer contributions 119 150 117 386 93
Scheme participants’ contributions 4 – 16 20 16
Benefits paid (600) (257) (89) (946) (109)
Assets at 31 December 2018 12,581 2,808 2,390 17,779 –
Exchange adjustments – (110) (120) (230) –
Additions through business combinations – – 14 14 –
Interest income 360 111 37 508 –
Expenses (7) (20) – (27) –
Settlements and curtailments – – 1 1 –
Remeasurement 427 245 312 984 –
Employer contributions 187 40 116 343 110
Scheme participants’ contributions 3 – 17 20 17
Benefits paid (570) (285) (105) (960) (127)
Assets at 31 December 2019 12,981 2,789 2,662 18,432 –
During 2019, the Group made special funding contributions to the UK pension schemes of £78 million (2018 – £nil; 2017 –
£136 million) but £nil (2018 – £125 million; 2017 – £78 million) to the US schemes. In 2018, GSK reached a revised agreement
with the trustees of the UK pension schemes to make additional contributions to eliminate the pension deficits identified within the
schemes at the 31 December 2017 actuarial funding valuation. Based on these funding agreements, the additional contributions
to eliminate the pension deficit are expected to be £75 million in 2020. Further payments have been agreed for the years 2021 to
2022 and these are included within Note 35, ‘Commitments’ on page 216. This funding commitment supersedes the previous
agreement made in 2016. The contributions were based on a government bond yield curve approach to selecting the discount rate;
the rate chosen included an allowance for expected investment returns which reflected the asset mix of the schemes.
Employer contributions for 2020, including special funding contributions, are estimated to be approximately £400 million in respect
of defined benefit pension schemes and £90 million in respect of post-retirement benefits.
210 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
30. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
UK US Rest of World Group Group
Movements in defined benefit obligations £m £m £m £m £m
Obligations at 1 January 2017 (12,884) (3,752) (3,018) (19,654) (1,693)
Exchange adjustments – 305 (45) 260 119
Service cost (79) (70) (131) (280) (30)
Past service cost/(credit) (37) – – (37) 2
Interest cost (340) (135) (49) (524) (59)
Settlements and curtailments – – 4 4 –
Remeasurement (301) (50) (63) (414) 64
Scheme participants’ contributions (4) – (17) (21) (17)
Benefits paid 544 257 80 881 118
Obligations at 31 December 2017 (13,101) (3,445) (3,239) (19,785) (1,496)
Exchange adjustments – (208) (63) (271) (71)
Service cost (75) (72) (134) (281) (29)
Past service cost/(credit) (93) (1) – (94) 27
Interest cost (320) (122) (48) (490) (49)
Settlements and curtailments – – 28 28 1
Remeasurement 906 117 170 1,193 145
Scheme participants’ contributions (4) – (16) (20) (16)
Benefits paid 600 257 89 946 109
Obligations at 31 December 2018 (12,087) (3,474) (3,213) (18,774) (1,379)
Exchange adjustments – 140 177 317 50
Additions through business combinations – – (56) (56) (48)
Service cost (62) (74) (130) (266) (22)
Past service cost (49) 3 15 (31) –
Interest cost (341) (140) (53) (534) (52)
Settlements and curtailments – – 8 8 –
Remeasurement (1,321) (246) (390) (1,957) (77)
Scheme participants’ contributions (3) – (17) (20) (17)
Benefits paid 570 285 105 960 127
Obligations at 31 December 2019 (13,293) (3,506) (3,554) (20,353) (1,418)
The defined benefit pension obligation is analysed as follows:
2019 2018 2017
£m £m £m
Funded (19,547) (18,025) (19,052)
Unfunded (806) (749) (733)
(20,353) (18,774) (19,785)
The liability for the US post-retirement healthcare scheme has been assessed using the same assumptions as for the US pension
scheme, together with the assumption for future medical inflation of 6.25% (2018 – 6.50%) in 2020, grading down to 5.0% in
2025 and thereafter. At 31 December 2019, the US post-retirement healthcare scheme obligation was £1,198 million
(2018 – £1,179 million; 2017 – £1,254 million). Post-retirement benefits are unfunded.
GSK Annual Report 2019 211Notes to the financial statements continued
30. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
The movement in the net defined benefit liability is as follows:
2019 2018 2017
£m £m £m
At 1 January (995) (1,505) (2,084)
Exchange adjustments 87 (47) 40
Additions through business combinations (42) – –
Service cost (266) (281) (280)
Past service cost (31) (94) (37)
Interest cost (26) (36) (54)
Settlements and curtailments 9 14 –
Remeasurements:
Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest 984 (610) 899
Gain from change in demographic assumptions 78 131 209
(Loss)/gain from change in financial assumptions (2,022) 1,149 (555)
Experience losses (13) (87) (68)
Employer contributions 343 386 444
Expenses (27) (15) (19)
At 31 December (1,921) (995) (1,505)
The remeasurements included within post-retirement benefits are detailed below:
2019 2018 2017
£m £m £m
Gain from change in demographic assumptions – 6 47
(Loss)/gain from change in financial assumptions (80) 100 (1)
Experience gains 3 39 18
(77) 145 64
The defined benefit pension obligation analysed by membership category is as follows:
2019 2018 2017
£m £m £m
Active 4,572 4,427 4,611
Retired 10,485 9,542 9,805
Deferred 5,296 4,805 5,369
20,353 18,774 19,785
The post-retirement benefit obligation analysed by membership category is as follows:
2019 2018 2017
£m £m £m
Active 549 499 514
Retired 869 879 981
Deferred – 1 1
1,418 1,379 1,496
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is as follows:
2019 2018 2017
years years years
Pension benefits 15 15 16
Post-retirement benefits 12 11 11
212 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
30. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
Sensitivity analysis
The effect of changes in assumptions used on the benefit obligations and on the 2020 annual defined benefit pension and post-
retirement costs are detailed below. This information has been determined by taking into account the duration of the liabilities and
the overall profile of the plan memberships.
£m
A 0.25% decrease in discount rate would have the following approximate effect:
Increase in annual pension cost 23
Decrease in annual post-retirement benefits cost (1)
Increase in pension obligation 798
Increase in post-retirement benefits obligation 40
A 0.5% decrease in discount rate would have the following approximate effect:
Increase in annual pension cost 43
Decrease in annual post-retirement benefits cost (2)
Increase in pension obligation 1,640
Increase in post-retirement benefits obligation 82
A one-year increase in life expectancy would have the following approximate effect:
Increase in annual pension cost 19
Increase in annual post-retirement benefits cost 2
Increase in pension obligation 725
Increase in post-retirement benefits obligation 39
A 1% increase in the rate of future healthcare inflation would have the following approximate effect:
Increase in annual post-retirement benefits cost 2
Increase in post-retirement benefits obligation 42
A 0.25% increase in inflation would have the following approximate effect:
Increase in annual pension cost 17
Increase in pension obligation 532
GSK Annual Report 2019 213Notes to the financial statements continued
31. Other provisions
Legal Major Employee
and other restructuring related Other
disputes programmes provisions provisions Total
£m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2019 219 641 350 213 1,423
Implementation of IFRS 16 – (30) – (5) (35)
At 1 January 2019, as adjusted 219 611 350 208 1,388
Exchange adjustments (11) (14) (13) (4) (42)
Additions through business combinations 12 – – 24 36
Charge for the year 367 345 158 56 926
Reversed unused (4) (148) (53) (16) (221)
Unwinding of discount 3 5 – – 8
Utilised (389) (309) (49) (48) (795)
Reclassifications and other movements 1 62 (6) (19) 38
Transfer to Pension obligations – (47) – – (47)
At 31 December 2019 198 505 387 201 1,291
To be settled within one year 134 298 138 51 621
To be settled after one year 64 207 249 150 670
At 31 December 2019 198 505 387 201 1,291
Legal and other disputes The Group is in potential settlement discussions in a number of
The Group is involved in a substantial number of legal and other the disputes for which amounts have been provided and, based
disputes, including notification of possible claims, as set out in on its current assessment of the progress of these disputes,
Note 46 ‘Legal proceedings’. Provisions for legal and other estimates that £134 million of the amount provided at 31
disputes include amounts relating to product liability, anti-trust, December 2019 will be settled within one year. At 31 December
government investigations, contract terminations and self 2019, it was expected that £9 million (2018 – £37 million)
insurance. of the provision made for legal and other disputes will be
reimbursed by third parties. For a discussion of legal issues,
The net charge for the year of £363 million (including reversals
see Note 46, ‘Legal proceedings’.
and estimated insurance recoveries) primarily related to
provisions for product liability cases, commercial disputes Major restructuring programmes
and various other government investigations. During 2019, the Group was undertaking three major
restructuring programmes: the Combined restructuring
The discount on the provisions increased by £3 million in 2019
and integration programme, which is now substantially complete,
(2018 – increased by £2 million). The discount was calculated
the 2018 major restructuring programme and the Consumer
using risk-adjusted projected cash flows and risk-free rates of
Healthcare Joint Venture integration programme. The
return.
programmes are focused primarily on simplifying supply chain
In respect of product liability claims related to certain products, processes, rationalising the Group’s manufacturing network,
provision is made when there is sufficient history of claims restructuring the Pharmaceuticals commercial operations and
made and settlements to enable management to make a reliable integrating the Pfizer consumer healthcare business.
estimate of the provision required to cover unasserted claims.
Provisions for staff severance payments are made when
The ultimate liability for such matters may vary from the amounts
management has made a formal decision to eliminate certain
provided and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation
positions and this has been communicated to the groups of
proceedings, investigations and possible settlement
employees affected and appropriate consultation procedures
negotiations.
completed, where appropriate. No provision is made for staff
It is in the nature of the Group’s business that a number of severance payments that are made immediately.
these matters may be the subject of negotiation and litigation
Pension augmentations arising from staff redundancies of
over many years. Litigation proceedings, including the various
£47 million (2018 – £21 million) have been charged during the
appeal procedures, often take many years to reach resolution,
year and then transferred to the pension obligations provision
and out-of-court settlement discussions can also often be
as shown in Note 30, ‘Pensions and other post-employment
protracted. Indemnified disputes will result in a provision
benefits’. Asset write-downs have been recognised as
charge and a corresponding receivable.
impairments of property, plant and equipment in Note 17,
‘Property, plant and equipment’. The majority of the amounts
provided are expected to be utilised in the next two years.
214 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
31. Other provisions continued
Employee related provisions
Employee related provisions include obligations for certain Given the nature of these provisions, the amounts are likely to
medical benefits to disabled employees and their spouses in be settled over many years.
the US. At 31 December 2019, the provision for these benefits
Other provisions
amounted to £85 million (2018 – £87 million). Other employee
Included in other provisions are insurance provisions of
benefits reflect a variety of provisions for severance costs,
£14 million (2018 – £20 million), and a number of other
jubilee awards and other long-service benefits.
provisions including vehicle insurance and regulatory matters.
32. Contingent consideration liabilities
The consideration for certain acquisitions includes amounts contingent on future events such as development milestones or sales
performance. The Group has provided for the fair value of this contingent consideration as follows:
Shionogi-
ViiV Novartis
Healthcare Vaccines Other Total
£m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2017 5,304 545 47 5,896
Remeasurement through income statement 909 53 (1) 961
Cash payments: operating cash flows (587) (7) – (594)
Cash payments: investing activities (84) (7) – (91)
At 31 December 2017 5,542 584 46 6,172
Remeasurement through income statement 1,188 56 7 1,251
Cash payments: operating cash flows (703) (281) – (984)
Cash payments: investing activities (90) (63) – (153)
At 31 December 2018 5,937 296 53 6,286
Remeasurement through income statement 31 67 (15) 83
Cash payments: operating cash flows (767) (13) – (780)
Cash payments: investing activities (98) (11) (4) (113)
Other movements – – 3 3
At 31 December 2019 5,103 339 37 5,479
Of the contingent consideration payable at 31 December 2019, £755 million (2018 – £837 million) is expected to be paid within
one year.
The consideration payable for the acquisition of the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture and the Novartis Vaccines business is
expected to be paid over a number of years. As a result, the total estimated liabilities are discounted to their present values, shown
above. The Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare contingent consideration liability is discounted at 8.5% and the Novartis Vaccines contingent
consideration liability is discounted at 8% for commercialised products and at 9% for pipeline assets.
The Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare and Novartis Vaccines contingent consideration liabilities are calculated principally based on the
forecast sales performance of specified products over the lives of those products.
The table below shows on an indicative basis the income statement and balance sheet sensitivity to reasonably possible changes
in key inputs to the valuations of the contingent consideration liabilities.
Shionogi- Novartis
ViiV Healthcare Vaccines
Increase/(decrease) in financial liability and loss/(gain) in Income statement £m £m
10% increase in sales forecasts 489 65
10% decrease in sales forecasts (490) (65)
1% increase in discount rate (192) (24)
1% decrease in discount rate 205 27
5% increase in probability of milestone success 7
5% decrease in probability of milestone success (7)
10 cent appreciation of US Dollar 302 (8)
10 cent depreciation of US Dollar (261) 7
10 cent appreciation of Euro 106 26
10 cent depreciation of Euro (91) (22)
An explanation of the accounting for ViiV Healthcare is set out on page 51.
GSK Annual Report 2019 215Notes to the financial statements continued
33. Other non-current liabilities
2019 2018
£m £m
Accruals 42 71
Deferred income 24 19
Other payables 778 848
844 938
Other payables includes a number of employee-related liabilities including employee savings plans. In the prior year, it also included
acquisition accounting market value lease adjustments which were reclassified to the Right of use asset on transition to IFRS 16.
34. Contingent liabilities
At 31 December 2019, contingent liabilities, comprising guarantees, discounted bills and other items arising in the normal course
of business, amounted to £97 million (2018 – £93 million). At 31 December 2019, £1 million (2018 – £nil) of financial assets were
pledged as collateral for contingent liabilities. Provision is made for the outcome of tax, legal and other disputes where it is both
probable that the Group will suffer an outflow of funds and it is possible to make a reliable estimate of that outflow. At 31 December
2019, other than for those disputes where provision has been made, it was not possible to make a reliable estimate of the potential
outflow of funds that might be required to settle disputes where the possibility of there being an outflow was more than remote.
Descriptions of the significant legal and other disputes to which the Group is a party are set out in Note 46, ‘Legal proceedings’.
35. Commitments
2019 2018
Contractual obligations and commitments £m £m
Contracted for but not provided in the financial statements:
Intangible assets 9,727 4,762
Property, plant and equipment 413 665
Investments 47 82
Purchase commitments 1,047 561
Pensions 163 238
Interest on loans 8,952 9,418
Future finance charges on leases 223 16
20,572 15,742
The commitments related to intangible assets include milestone payments, which are dependent on successful clinical development
or on meeting specified sales targets, and which represent the maximum that would be paid if all milestones, however unlikely, are
achieved. The amounts are not risk-adjusted or discounted. The increase in intangible commitments in 2019 is mainly attributable to
a number of new R&D collaborations, including with Merck KgaA and Lyell Immunopharma.
In 2018, GSK reached an agreement with the trustees of the UK pension schemes to make additional contributions to eliminate the
pension deficit identified at the 31 December 2017 actuarial funding valuation. A payment of £75 million is due in 2020 and
payments of £44 million are due in both 2021 and 2022. The table above includes this commitment, but excludes the normal
ongoing annual funding requirement in the UK of approximately £140 million.
The Group also has other commitments which principally relate to revenue payments to be made under licences and other alliances.
Commitments in respect of future interest payable on loans are disclosed before taking into account the effect of interest rate
swaps.
216 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
36. Share capital and share premium account
Share
Ordinary Shares of 25p each premium
Number £m £m
Share capital issued and fully paid
At 1 January 2017 5,368,316,062 1,342 2,954
Issued under employee share schemes 4,237,758 1 55
Ordinary shares acquired by ESOP Trusts – – 10
At 31 December 2017 5,372,553,820 1,343 3,019
Issued under employee share schemes 6,513,804 2 72
At 31 December 2018 5,379,067,624 1,345 3,091
Issued under employee share schemes 4,034,607 1 50
Ordinary shares acquired by ESOP Trusts – – 33
At 31 December 2019 5,383,102,231 1,346 3,174
31 December 2019 31 December 2018
000 000
Number of shares issuable under employee share schemes 57,871 56,723
Number of unissued shares not under option 4,559,027 4,564,209
At 31 December 2019, of the issued share capital, 36,365,045 shares were held in the ESOP Trusts, 393,505,950 shares were
held as Treasury shares and 4,953,231,236 shares were in free issue. All issued shares are fully paid. The nominal, carrying and
market values of the shares held in the ESOP Trusts are disclosed in Note 44, ‘Employee share schemes’.
GSK Annual Report 2019 217Notes to the financial statements continued
37. Movements in equity
Retained earnings and other reserves amounted to £6,885 million at 31 December 2019 (2018 – £655 million loss, as revised;
2017 – £4,430 million loss) of which £394 million (2018 – £337 million; 2017 – £334 million) related to associates and joint
ventures.
An adjustment of cumulative translation exchange between retained earnings and non-controlling interests of £396 million has
been made in 2019 as described in Note 1, ‘Presentation of the financial statements’. The cumulative translation exchange in
equity is as follows:
Net translation exchange included in:
Non- Total
Retained Fair value controlling translation
earnings reserve interests exchange
£m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2017 (128) 23 494 389
Exchange movements on overseas net assets 462 – (149) 313
Reclassification of exchange on liquidation or disposal of overseas subsidiaries 109 – – 109
At 31 December 2017 443 23 345 811
Exchange movements on overseas net assets (458) (22) (1) (481)
At 31 December 2018, as reported (15) 1 344 330
Adjustment of exchange movements on overseas net assets 396 – (396) –
At 31 December 2018, as revised 381 1 (52) 330
Exchange movements on overseas net assets (830) (2) (75) (907)
Reclassification of exchange movements on liquidation or disposal of overseas subsidiaries (75) – – (75)
At 31 December 2019 (524) (1) (127) (652)
The analysis of other comprehensive income by equity category is as follows:
Non-
Retained Other controlling
earnings reserves interests Total
2019 £m £m £m £m
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges (830) (2) – (832)
Reclassification of exchange movements on liquidation or disposal of overseas subsidiaries (75) – – (75)
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges – (20) – (20)
Reclassification of cash flow hedges to income and expense – 3 – 3
Deferred tax on fair value movements on cash flow hedges – 16 – 16
Items that will not be reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets of non-controlling interests – – (75) (75)
Fair value movements on equity investments – 372 – 372
Deferred tax on fair value movements on equity investments – (95) – (95)
Remeasurement losses on defined benefit plans (1,050) – – (1,050)
Tax on remeasurement losses in defined benefit plans 189 – – 189
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year (1,766) 274 (75) (1,567)
Non-
Retained Other controlling
earnings reserves interests Total
2018 £m £m £m £m
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges (458) (22) – (480)
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges – 140 – 140
Reclassification of cash flow hedges to income and expense – (175) – (175)
Deferred tax on fair value movements on cash flow hedges – (22) – (22)
Deferred tax reversed on reclassification of cash flow hedges – 20 – 20
Items that will not be reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets of non-controlling interests – – (1) (1)
Fair value movements on equity investments – 180 – 180
Deferred tax on fair value movements on equity investments – 10 – 10
Remeasurement gains on defined benefit plans 728 – – 728
Tax on remeasurement gains in defined benefit plans (146) – – (146)
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year 124 131 (1) 254
218 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
37. Movements in equity continued
Non-
Retained Other controlling
earnings reserves interests Total
2017 £m £m £m £m
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges 462 – – 462
Reclassification of exchange on liquidation or disposal of overseas subsidiaries 109 – – 109
Fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – (14) – (14)
Reclassification of fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – (42) – (42)
Deferred tax on fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – 47 – 47
Deferred tax reversed on reclassification of available-for-sale investments – (18) – (18)
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges – (10) – (10)
Items that will not be reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets of non-controlling interests – – (149) (149)
Remeasurement gains on defined benefit plans 549 – – 549
Tax on remeasurement gains in defined benefit plans (221) – – (221)
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year 899 (37) (149) 713
The analysis of other reserves is as follows:
ESOP Trust Fair value Cash flow Other
shares reserve hedge reserve reserves Total
£m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2017 (286) 380 (3) 2,129 2,220
Exchange adjustments 22 – – – 22
Transferred to income and expense in the year on disposals – (42) – – (42)
Net fair value movement in the year – (9) (8) – (17)
Ordinary shares acquired by ESOP Trusts (656) – – – (656)
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts 520 – – – 520
At 31 December 2017 (400) 329 (11) 2,129 2,047
Implementation of IFRS 9 – (288) – – (288)
At 31 December, as adjusted (400) 41 (11) 2,129 1,759
Exchange adjustments (26) – – – (26)
Transferred to Retained earnings in the year on disposal of equity investments – (94) – – (94)
Net fair value movement in the year – 193 (36) – 157
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts 265 – – – 265
At 31 December 2018 (161) 140 (47) 2,129 2,061
Exchange adjustments 10 – – – 10
Transferred to Retained earnings in the year on disposal of equity investments – 5 – – 5
Net fair value movement in the year – 264 (1) – 263
Ordinary shares acquired by ESOP Trusts (328) – – – (328)
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts 344 – – – 344
At 31 December 2019 (135) 409 (48) 2,129 2,355
Other reserves include various non-distributable merger and pre-merger reserves amounting to £1,849 million at 31 December 2019
(2018 – £1,849 million; 2017 – £1,849 million). Other reserves also include the capital redemption reserve created as a result of the
share buy-back programme amounting to £280 million at 31 December 2019 (2018 – £280 million; 2017 – £280 million).
GSK Annual Report 2019 219Notes to the financial statements continued
38. Non-controlling interests
Total non-controlling interests includes the following individually material non-controlling interests. Other non-controlling interests
are individually not material.
ViiV Healthcare
GSK holds 78.3% of the ViiV Healthcare sub-group, giving rise to a material non-controlling interest. Summarised financial
information in respect of the ViiV Healthcare sub-group is as follows:
2019 2018 2017
£m £m £m
Turnover 4,816 4,665 4,269
Profit after taxation 2,574 560 825
Other comprehensive (expense)/income (29) 19 20
Total comprehensive income 2,545 579 845
2019 2018
£m £m
Non-current assets 2,660 2,787
Current assets 2,905 2,643
Total assets 5,565 5,430
Current liabilities (2,742) (2,638)
Non-current liabilities (7,811) (8,895)
Total liabilities (10,553) (11,533)
Net liabilities (4,988) (6,103)
2019 2018 2017
£m £m £m
Net cash inflow from operating activities 2,375 2,212 2,132
Net cash outflow from investing activities (202) (237) (207)
Net cash outflow from financing activities (1,947) (1,982) (1,820)
Increase/(decrease) in cash and bank overdrafts in the year 226 (7) 105
The above financial information relates to the ViiV Healthcare group on a stand-alone basis, before the impact of Group-related
adjustments, primarily related to the recognition of preferential dividends. The profit after taxation of £2,574 million (2018 –
£560 million; 2017 – £825 million) is stated after charging preferential dividends payable to GSK, Shionogi and Pfizer and after a
charge of £37 million (2018 – £1,194 million; 2017 – £908 million) for remeasurement of contingent consideration payable. This
consideration is expected to be paid over a number of years.
The following amounts attributable to the ViiV Healthcare group are included in GSK’s Financial statements:
2019 2018 2017
£m £m £m
Share of profit for the year attributable to non-controlling interest 482 254 187
Dividends paid to non-controlling interest (310) (332) (381)
Non-controlling interest in the Consolidated balance sheet (344) (543) (476)
220 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
38. Non-controlling interests continued
Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture
GSK holds 68% of the Consumer Healthcare sub-group, giving rise to a material non-controllling interest. Summarised financial
information in respect of the Consumer Healthcare sub-group is as follows:
2019
£m
Turnover 4,240
Profit after taxation 150
Other comprehensive expenses (721)
Total comprehensive expenses (571)
2019
£m
Non-current assets 29,899
Current assets 5,713
Total assets 35,612
Current liabilities (4,219)
Non-current liabilities (4,027)
Total liabilities (8,246)
Net assets 27,366
2019
£m
Net cash inflow from operating activities 1,014
Net cash outflow from investing activities (776)
Net cash outflow from financing activities (78)
Decrease in cash and bank overdrafts in the period 160
The above financial information relates to the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture on a stand-alone basis since its formation on
31 July 2019, before the impact of Group-related adjustments and the classification of cash pooling accounts with Group
companies outside the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture but after and the Major restructuring charges.
The following amounts attributable to the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture are included in GSK’s Financial statements:
2019
£m
Share of profit for the period attributable to non-controlling interest 69
Non-controlling interest in the Consolidated balance sheet 6,911
GSK Annual Report 2019 221Notes to the financial statements continued
39. Related party transactions
At 31 December 2019, GSK owned 32 million shares or 31.6% of Innoviva Inc. which is a biopharmaceutical company listed on
NASDAQ. GSK began recognising Innoviva as an associate on 1 September 2015. The royalties due from GSK to Innoviva in the
year were £215 million (2018 – £209 million). At 31 December 2019, the balance payable by GSK to Innoviva was £63 million
(2018 – £64 million).
At 1 January 2019, GSK held a 50% interest in Japan Vaccine Co. Ltd (JVC) through its subsidiary GlaxoSmithKline K.K. This joint
venture with Daiichi Sankyo Co., Ltd was primarily responsible for the development and marketing of certain prophylactic vaccines
in Japan. During 2019, GSK sold £11 million of its vaccine products into the joint venture. Daiichi Sankyo’s shares in JVC were
acquired by GSK during 2019 at which point, JVC ceased to be a related party.
Loans of £3.8 million to Medicxi Ventures I LP and £10.6 million to Index Ventures Life VI (Jersey) LP remained due to GSK at
31 December 2019. In 2019, GSK increased the investment in Kurma Biofund II, FCPR by £1.1 million and Apollo Therapeutics
LLP by £2.1 million. Further investments were also made in Medicxi Ventures I LP of £3.1 million and in Index Ventures Life VI
(Jersey) LP of £1.8 million. As part of the joint venture agreement with Qura Therapeutics LLC, the Group has an obligation to
fund the joint venture $1 million per quarter up to April 2020. On 26 June 2019, the agreement was extended for a second five-year
period up to April 2025, with both GSK and its joint venture partner committing additional financial support in the amount of
$20 million. At 31 December 2019, the outstanding liability due to Qura was £16.1 million. Cash distributions were received from
our investments in Medicxi Ventures I LP of £18.5 million and in Longwood Founders Fund LP of £2.8 million.
The aggregate compensation of the Directors and CET is given in Note 9, ‘Employee costs’.
40. Acquisitions and disposals
Details of the acquisition and disposal of significant subsidiaries and associates, joint ventures and other businesses are given below:
2019
Business acquisitions
Pfizer consumer healthcare business
The acquisition of Pfizer’s consumer healthcare business completed on 31 July 2019.
GSK and Pfizer have contributed their respective consumer healthcare businesses into a new Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture
in a non-cash transaction, whereby GSK has acquired Pfizer’s consumer healthcare business in return for shares in the Joint
Venture. GSK has an equity interest of 68% and majority control of the Joint Venture and Pfizer has an equity interest of 32%.
As the Group has control over the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture it is consolidated within the Group’s financial statements.
In a number of territories, legal completion of the acquisition has not occurred because of regulatory constraints. However, the
Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture obtained control of the majority of these businesses in these territories from 31 July 2019
and has consolidated the net assets of those businesses from that date, but in all cases is entitled to the benefits of the trading
of businesses in the delayed territories.
The non-controlling interest in the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture, calculated applying the proportionate goodwill method,
represents Pfizer’s share of the net assets of the Joint Venture, excluding goodwill.
Goodwill of £3.9 billion, which is not expected to be deductible for tax purposes, has been recognised. The goodwill represents
the potential for further synergies arising from combining the acquired businesses with GSK’s existing business together with the
value of the workforce acquired. Total transaction costs recognised in 2018 and 2019 for the acquisition amounted to £77 million.
Since acquisition on 31 July 2019, sales of £1.2 billion arising from the Pfizer consumer healthcare business have been included in
Group turnover. If the business had been acquired at the beginning of the year, it is estimated that Group turnover in 2019 would
have been approximately £1.5 billion higher. The business has been integrated into the Group’s existing activities and it is not
practicable to identify the impact on the Group profit in the period.
Tesaro Inc.
On 22 January 2019, GSK acquired 100% of Tesaro Inc., an oncology focused biopharmaceutical company, for cash consideration
of $5.0 billion (£3.9 billion), in order to strengthen the Group’s pharmaceutical pipeline. Transaction costs amounted to £31 million.
Goodwill of £1.2 billion, none of which is expected to be tax-deductible, has been recognised. The goodwill represents the
potential for further synergies arising from combining the acquired businesses with GSK’s existing business together with the value
of the workforce acquired. Since acquisition on 22 January 2019, sales of £0.2 billion arising from the Tesaro business have been
included in Group turnover. The business has been integrated into the Group’s existing activities and it is not practicable to identify
the impact on the Group profit in the period.
222 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
40. Acquisitions and disposals continued
The fair value of the assets acquired in business combinations, including goodwill, are set out in the table below. Amounts related to
the Pfizer consumer healthcare business acquisition are provisional and subject to change.
Pfizer
consumer
healthcare
business Tesaro Other
£m £m £m
Net assets acquired:
Intangible assets 12,357 3,092 –
Property, plant and equipment 354 6 –
Right of use assets 39 40 –
Inventory 986 162 –
Trade and other receivables 546 115 35
Other assets including cash and cash equivalents 302 254 16
Trade and other payables (779) (282) (39)
Net deferred tax liabilities (2,591) (252) –
Other liabilities (99) (5) –
Term loan – (445) –
Non-controlling interest (3,577) – –
Goodwill 3,854 1,169 –
Total 11,392 3,854 12
Consideration settled by shares in GSK Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture 11,392 – –
Cash consideration paid – 3,854 6
Fair value of investment in joint venture converted into subsidiary – – 6
Total consideration 11,392 3,854 12
The non-controlling interest of £3,577 million represents Pfizer’s share of the fair value of the Pfizer consumer healthcare business,
excluding goodwill. The total non-controlling interest initially recognised in the Consolidated statement of changes in equity of
£6,887 million also includes Pfizer’s share of the book value of GSK Consumer Healthcare.
Business disposals
GSK made a number of business disposals for net cash consideration received in the year of £104 million. The profit on the
disposal of the businesses in the year of £201 million was calculated as follows:
Total
£m £m
Cash consideration receivable net of subsidy payable 106
Net assets sold:
Goodwill (4)
Intangible assets (1)
Property, plant and equipment (44)
Inventory (7)
Cash and cash equivalents (12)
Other net assets (4)
(72)
Transaction costs (27)
Reclassification of exchange from other comprehensive income 75
Non-controlling interest divested 16
98
Transaction signed but not yet completed - gain on embedded derivative 143
Transaction signed but not yet completed - transaction costs (40)
Total profit on disposal 201
Transaction signed but not yet completed
In December 2018, GSK agreed to divest Horlicks and other Consumer Healthcare nutrition brands to Unilever plc and to form
a merger of GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Limited with Hindustan Unilever Limited for a total consideration valued at
approximately £3.1 billion. GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Limited is a public company listed on the National Stock
Exchange (NSE) and Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE), in which GSK holds a 72.5% stake. Following the merger of
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Limited with Hindustan Unilever Limited, a public company listed on the NSE and
BSE, GSK will own 133.8 million Hindustan Unilever Limited shares.
GSK Annual Report 2019 223Notes to the financial statements continued
40. Acquisitions and disposals continued
The Group has entered into forward foreign exchange contracts in relation to the transaction. Contracts with a value of £1.7 billion
have been designated as a cash flow hedge of part of the foreign exposure arising on the transaction. Further contracts with a value
of £0.6 billion have been designated as net investment hedges against INR and EUR assets. In addition, the exposure to share
price movements in the forward purchase of shares in Hindustan Unilever Limited has been recognised as an embedded derivative.
The embedded derivative was in an asset position and had a fair value of £240 million at 31 December 2019 (2018 – £100 million).
Associates and joint ventures
During the year, GSK made investments of £27 million into associates and joint ventures of which £11 million was paid in cash.
Cash flows
Associates
and joint
Business Business venture
acquisitions disposals investments
£m £m £m
Cash consideration (paid)/received (3,860) 161 (11)
Net deferred consideration received – 29 –
Transaction costs (95) (73) –
Cash and cash equivalents acquired/divested 384 (13) –
Cash (outflow)/inflow (3,571) 104 (11)
2018
Business acquisitions
There were no business acquisitions during 2018.
Business disposals
GSK made a number of small business disposals during the year for a net cash consideration of £2 million.
Cash flows Associates Associates
and joint and joint
Business venture venture
disposals investments disposals
£m £m £m
Cash consideration 2 (10) 3
Net deferred consideration received 24 – –
Cash inflow/(outflow) 26 (10) 3
2017
Business acquisitions
There were no business acquisitions during 2017.
Business disposals
GSK made a number of small business disposals during the year for a net cash consideration of £342 million, including contingent
consideration receivable of £86 million. The profit on disposal was determined as follows:
Total
£m £m
Consideration including currency forwards and purchase adjustments 342
Net assets sold:
Goodwill (16)
Intangible assets (21)
Property, plant and equipment (18)
Inventory (11)
Cash and cash equivalents (6)
Other net assets (5)
(77)
Transaction costs (8)
Reclassification of exchange from other comprehensive income (100)
Profit on disposal 157
224 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
40. Acquisitions and disposals continued
Associates and joint ventures
During the year, GSK made cash investments of £15 million into associates and joint ventures. In addition, GSK sold its holdings in
two associates for £198 million in cash.
Total
£m
Cash consideration 198
Net book value of shares (92)
Reclassification of exchange from other comprehensive income (7)
Transaction costs (5)
Profit on disposal 94
Cash flows
Associates Associates
and joint and joint
Business venture venture
disposals investments disposals
£m £m £m
Cash consideration 256 (15) 198
Net deferred consideration received 39 – –
Cash and cash equivalents divested (6) – –
Transaction costs paid (7) – (2)
Cash inflow/(outflow) 282 (15) 196
41. Adjustments reconciling profit after tax to operating cash flows
2019 2018 2017
£m £m £m
Profit after tax 5,268 4,046 2,169
Tax on profits 953 754 1,356
Share of after-tax profits of associates and joint ventures (74) (31) (13)
Finance expense net of finance income 814 717 669
Depreciation 1,231 954 988
Amortisation of intangible assets 1,103 902 934
Impairment and assets written off 825 350 1,061
Profit on sale of businesses (201) (63) (157)
Profit on sale of intangible assets (342) (201) (46)
Profit on sale of investments in associates – (3) (94)
Profit on sale of equity investments (2) (4) (37)
Gain on Novartis Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture put option hedging – (513) –
Business acquisition costs 59 47 –
Changes in working capital:
Decrease/(increase) in inventories 300 51 (461)
Increase in trade receivables (32) (429) (287)
Increase in trade payables 263 131 11
(Increase)/decrease in other receivables (160) 18 74
Contingent consideration paid (see Note 32) (780) (984) (594)
Other non-cash increase in contingent consideration liabilities 83 1,250 961
Increase in other payables 89 2,362 1,741
(Decrease)/increase in pension and other provisions (188) 102 (255)
Share-based incentive plans 365 360 333
Fair value adjustments 19 (7) –
Other (61) (62) (95)
4,264 5,701 6,089
Cash generated from operations 9,532 9,747 8,258
GSK Annual Report 2019 225Notes to the financial statements continued
42. Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt
2019 2018 2017
£m £m £m
Net debt, as previously reported (21,621) (13,178) (13,804)
Implementation of IFRS 16 (1,303) – –
Net debt at beginning of year, as adjusted (22,924) (13,178) (13,804)
Increase/(decrease) in cash and bank overdrafts 826 479 (905)
Decrease in liquid investments (1) – (4)
Net increase in long-term loans (4,794) (10,138) (2,233)
Repayment of short-term Notes 4,160 2,067 2,636
(Increase in)/repayment of other short-term loans (3,095) (81) 564
Repayment of lease liabilities 214 28 23
Debt of subsidiary undertakings acquired (524) – –
Exchange adjustments 1,015 (776) 585
Other non-cash movements (92) (22) (40)
Movement in net debt (2,291) (8,443) 626
Net debt at end of year (25,215) (21,621) (13,178)
IFRS 16 At
At 1 January Implement- Debt Profit Reclass- 31 December
2019 ation Exchange acquired Other and loss ifications Cash flow 2019
Analysis of changes in net debt £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Liquid investments 84 – (6) – – – – 1 79
Cash and cash equivalents 3,874 – (86) – – – (22) 941 4,707
Cash and cash equivalents – AHFS 485 – – – – – 22 – 507
Overdrafts (272) – 4 – – – – (115) (383)
4,087 – (82) – – – – 826 4,831
Debt due within one year:
Commercial paper (630) – 109 – – – – (3,065) (3,586)
European/US Medium Term Notes and
bank facilities (4,849) – 233 (445) (1) – (1,756) 4,160 (2,658)
Lease liabilities (24) (229) 4 (19) 5 – (2) 25 (240)
Other (18) – 2 – (5) – – (30) (51)
(5,521) (229) 348 (464) (1) – (1,758) 1,090 (6,535)
Debt due after one year:
European/US Medium Term Notes and
bank facilities (20,227) – 715 – (3) (27) 1,756 (4,794) (22,580)
Lease liabilities (44) (1,074) 40 (60) (101) – 2 227 (1,010)
(20,271) (1,074) 755 (60) (104) (27) 1,758 (4,567) (23,590)
Net debt (21,621) (1,303) 1,015 (524) (105) (27) – (2,650) (25,215)
Analysis of changes in liabilities from financing activities
Debt due within one year (5,521) (229) 348 (464) (1) – (1,758) 1,090 (6,535)
Debt due after one year (20,271) (1,074) 755 (60) (104) (27) 1,758 (4,567) (23,590)
Hedge of borrowings:
Derivative financial instruments 129 – (1) – 188 21 – (2) 335
Other financing items – – (189) – – – – 189 –
Interest payable (239) – 1 – (3) (898) – 895 (244)
Total liabilities from financing activities (25,902) (1,303) 914 (524) 80 (904) – (2,395) (30,034)
For further information on significant changes in net debt see Note 29, ‘Net debt’.
226 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
43. Financial instruments and related disclosures
The objective of GSK’s Treasury activity is to minimise the Additional bank facilities were agreed in 2018 to support
post-tax net cost of financial operations and reduce its volatility transactions and one remains active at 31 December 2019.
to benefit earnings and cash flows. GSK uses a variety of In June 2018, £3.5 billion was drawn to support the acquisition
financial instruments to finance its operations and derivative from Novartis of the remaining stake in the Consumer
financial instruments to manage market risks from these Healthcare Joint Venture. £2.5 billion was repaid in November
operations. Derivatives principally comprise of foreign exchange 2019 leaving £1.0 billion outstanding at 31 December 2019.
forward contracts and swaps which are used to swap In December 2019, this facility was extended to June 2020.
borrowings and liquid assets into currencies required for Group
GSK has a £20.0 billion European Medium Term Note
purposes as well as interest rate swaps which are used to
programme and at 31 December 2019, £11.8 billion of
manage exposure to financial risks from changes in interest
notes were in issue under this programme. The Group also had
rates. These financial instruments reduce the uncertainty of
$16.4 billion (£12.4 billion) of notes in issue at 31 December
foreign currency transactions and interest payments.
2019 under a US shelf registration. GSK’s borrowings mature
Derivatives are used exclusively for hedging purposes in at dates between 2020 and 2045.
relation to underlying business activities and not as trading or
The put option owned by Pfizer in ViiV Healthcare is
speculative instruments.
exercisable. In reviewing liquidity requirements GSK considers
Capital management that sufficient financing options are available should the put
GSK’s financial strategy supports the Group’s strategic option be exercised.
priorities and is regularly reviewed by the Board. GSK manages
Market risk
the capital structure of the Group through an appropriate mix
Interest rate risk management
of debt and equity.
The objective of GSK’s Treasury activity is to minimise the
The capital structure of the Group consists of net debt of effective net interest cost and to balance the mix of debt at fixed
£25.2 billion (see Note 29, ‘Net debt’) and total equity, and floating rates over time.
including items related to non-controlling interests, of
The Group’s main interest rate risk arises from borrowings and
£18.4 billion (see ‘Consolidated statement of changes in
investments with floating rates and refinancing of maturing fixed
equity’ on page 168). Total capital, including that provided
rate debt where any changes in interest rates will affect future
by non-controlling interests, is £43.6 billion.
cash flows or the fair values of financial instruments. The policy
The Group continues to manage its financial policies to a credit on interest rate risk management limits the net amount of
profile that particularly targets short-term credit ratings of A-1 floating rate debt to a specific cap, reviewed and agreed no
and P-1 while maintaining single A long-term ratings consistent less than annually by the Board.
with those targets. The Group’s long-term credit rating with
The majority of debt is issued at fixed interest rates and
Standard and Poor’s is A+ (negative outlook) and with Moody’s
changes in the floating rates of interest do not significantly
Investor Services (‘Moody’s’) it is A2 (negative outlook).
affect the Group’s net interest charge. This includes some
The Group’s short-term credit ratings are A-1 and P-1 with
borrowings for which interest rate swaps are in place which
Standard and Poor’s and Moody’s respectively.
removes the impact of the associated periodic repricing.
Liquidity risk management
Short-term borrowings including bank facilities are exposed to
GSK’s policy is to borrow centrally in order to meet anticipated the risk of future changes in market interest rate as are the
funding requirements. The strategy is to diversify liquidity majority of cash and liquid investments.
sources using a range of facilities and to maintain broad access
to financial markets. Interest rate benchmark reform
‘Interest rate benchmark reform – Amendments to IFRS 9,
At 31 December 2019, GSK had £6.9 billion of borrowings
IAS 39 and IFRS 7’ was issued by the IASB in September
repayable within one year and held £5.3 billion of cash and
2019. These amendments modify specific hedge accounting
cash equivalents and liquid investments of which £3.6 billion
requirements to allow hedge accounting to continue for
was held centrally. GSK has access to short-term finance under
affected hedges during the period of uncertainty before the
a $10 billion (£7.6 billion) US commercial paper programme;
hedged items or hedging instruments affected by the current
$4.8 billion (£3.6 billion) was in issue at 31 December 2019
interest rate benchmarks are amended as a result of the
(2018 – $0.8 billion (£0.6 billion)). GSK has a £1.9 billion
ongoing interest rate benchmark reforms.
three-year committed facility and a $2.5 billion (£1.9 billion)
364-day committed facility. Both the three-year committed At 31 December 2019, the Group was not directly exposed
facility and the 364-day committed facility were agreed in to interest rate benchmark reform as it held no interest rate
September 2019. These facilities were undrawn at 31 derivatives that referenced LIBOR and matured after the end
December 2019. GSK considers this level of committed of 2021 and all floating rate bonds were due to mature before
facilities to be adequate, given current liquidity requirements. the end of 2021.
GSK Annual Report 2019 227Notes to the financial statements continued
43. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
The Group has closely monitored the market and the output The Group considers its maximum credit risk at 31 December
from the various industry working groups managing the 2019 to be £12,991 million (31 December 2018 – £11,080
transition to new benchmark interest rates. This includes million) which is the total of the Group’s financial assets with
announcements made by LIBOR regulators, including the the exception of ’Other investments’ (comprising equity
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and the US Commodity investments) which bear equity risk rather than credit risk.
Futures Trading Commission, regarding the transition away See page 231 for details on the Group’s total financial assets.
from LIBOR (including GBP LIBOR, USD LIBOR and At 31 December 2019, GSK’s greatest concentration of
EURIBOR) to the Sterling Overnight Index Average Rate credit risk was £0.9 billion with Legal and General Investment
(SONIA), the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR), Management Class 4 GBP liquidity fund (AAA/Aaa)
and the Euro Short-Term Rate (€STR) respectively. The FCA (2018 – £0.7 billion with Citibank (A/A1)).
has made it clear that, at the end of 2021, it will no longer
There has been no change in the estimation techniques or
seek to persuade, or compel, banks to submit to LIBOR.
significant assumptions made during the current reporting
The Group is undertaking an interest rate benchmark transition period in assessing the loss allowance for financial assets at
programme to identify potential exposures within the business amortised cost since the adoption of IFRS 9 at the start of
and deliver a smooth transition to appropriate alternative the 2018 reporting period.
benchmark rates.
Treasury-related credit risk
Foreign exchange risk management GSK sets global counterparty limits for each of GSK’s banking
The Group’s objective is to minimise the exposure of overseas and investment counterparties based on long-term credit
operating subsidiaries to transaction risk by matching local ratings from Moody’s and Standard and Poor’s. Usage of these
currency income with local currency costs where possible. limits is monitored daily.
Foreign currency transaction exposures arising on external
GSK actively manages its exposure to credit risk, reducing
and internal trade flows are selectively hedged. GSK’s internal
surplus cash balances wherever possible. This is part of GSK’s
trading transactions are matched centrally and inter-company
strategy to regionalise cash management and to concentrate
payment terms are managed to reduce foreign currency risk.
cash centrally as much as possible. The table below sets out
Where possible, GSK manages the cash surpluses or
the credit exposure to counterparties by rating for liquid
borrowing requirements of subsidiary companies centrally
investments, cash and cash equivalents and derivatives.
using forward contracts to hedge future repayments back
into the originating currency. The gross asset position on each derivative contract is
considered for the purpose of this table, although, under ISDA
In order to reduce foreign currency translation exposure, the
agreements, the amount at risk is the net position with each
Group seeks to denominate borrowings in the currencies of
counterparty. Table (e) on page 239 sets out the Group’s
our principal assets and cash flows. These are primarily
financial assets and liabilities on an offset basis.
denominated in US Dollars, Euros and Sterling. Borrowings
can be swapped into other currencies as required. At 31 December 2019, £23 million of cash is categorised as
held with unrated or sub-investment grade rated counterparties
Borrowings denominated in, or swapped into, foreign
(lower than BBB-/Baa3) of which £2 million is cash in transit.
currencies that match investments in overseas Group assets
The remaining exposure is concentrated in overseas banks used
may be treated as a hedge against the relevant assets. Forward
for local cash management or investment purposes, including:
contracts in major currencies are also used to reduce exposure
£8 million in Nigeria held with United Bank for Africa, Zenith
to the Group’s investment in overseas assets (see ‘Net
Bank and Stanbic IBTC Bank; £3 million with BTV in Austria;
investment hedges’ section of this note for further details).
£1 million with Bradesco in Brazil; £1 million with Banco de
Credit risk la Nacion in Panama; and £1 million with Halk Bank in the UK.
Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will default on its Of the £605 million of bank balances and deposits held with
contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group BBB/Baa rated counterparties, £46 million was held with
and arises on cash and cash equivalents and favourable BBB-/Baa3 rated counterparties, including balances or
derivative financial instruments held with banks and financial deposits of £25 million with HDFC Bank in India and
institutions as well as credit exposures to wholesale and retail £20 million with State Bank of India. These banks are used
customers, including outstanding receivables. for local investment purposes.
GSK measures expected credit losses over cash and cash
equivalents as a function of individual counterparty credit ratings
and associated 12 month default rates. Expected credit losses
over cash and cash equivalents and third-party financial
derivatives are deemed to be immaterial and no such loss has
been experienced during 2019.
228 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
43. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Credit ratings are assigned by Standard and Poor’s and Moody’s respectively. Where the opinions of the two rating agencies
differ, GSK assigns the lower rating of the two to the counterparty. Where local rating agency or Fitch data is the only source
available, the ratings are converted to global ratings equivalent to those of Standard and Poor’s or Moody’s using published
conversion tables. These credit ratings form the basis of the assessment of the expected credit loss on Treasury related balances
held at amortised cost being bank balances and deposits and Government securities.
BB+/Ba1
and below
AAA/Aaa AA/Aa A/A BBB/Baa /unrated Total
2019 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Bank balances and deposits – 538 1,906 605 23 3,072
US Treasury and Treasury repo only money market funds 102 – – – – 102
Liquidity funds 2,040 – – – – 2,040
Government securities – 78 – 1 – 79
3rd party financial derivatives – 35 225 10 – 270
Total 2,142 651 2,131 616 23 5,563
BB+/Ba1
and below
AAA/Aaa AA/Aa A/A BBB/Baa /unrated Total
2018 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Bank balances and deposits – 662 1,275 381 20 2,338
US Treasury and Treasury repo only money market funds 449 – – – – 449
Liquidity funds 1,572 – – – – 1,572
Government securities – 83 – 1 – 84
3rd party financial derivatives – 19 127 4 – 150
Total 2,021 764 1,402 386 20 4,593
GSK’s centrally managed cash reserves amounted to All new customers are subject to a credit vetting process and
£3.6 billion at 31 December 2019, all available within three existing customers will be subject to a review at least annually.
months. This includes £1.3 billion of cash managed by the The vetting process and subsequent reviews involve obtaining
Group for ViiV Healthcare, a 78.3% owned subsidiary and information including the customer’s status as a government or
£1.0 billion of cash managed by the Group for GSK Consumer private sector entity, audited financial statements, credit bureau
Healthcare, a 68% owned subsidiary. The Group has invested reports, debt rating agency (e.g. Moody’s, Standard & Poor’s)
centrally managed liquid assets in bank deposits, Aaa/AAA reports, payment performance history (from trade references,
rated US Treasury and Treasury repo only money market funds industry credit groups) and bank references.
and Aaa/AAA rated liquidity funds.
Trade receivables consist of amounts due from a large number
Wholesale and retail credit risk of customers, spread across diverse industries and
Outside the US, no customer accounts for more than 5% of the geographical areas. Ongoing credit evaluation is performed
Group’s trade receivables balance. on the financial condition of accounts receivable and, where
appropriate, credit insurance is purchased or factoring
In the US, in line with other pharmaceutical companies, the
arrangements put in place.
Group sells its products through a small number of wholesalers
in addition to hospitals, pharmacies, physicians and other The amount of information obtained is proportional to the level
groups. Sales to the three largest wholesalers amounted to of exposure being considered. The information is evaluated
approximately 78% of the sales of the US Pharmaceuticals quantitatively (i.e. credit score) and qualitatively (i.e. judgement)
and Vaccines businesses in 2019. At 31 December 2019, the in conjunction with the customer’s credit requirements to
Group had trade receivables due from these three wholesalers determine a credit limit.
totalling £2,079 million (2018 – £2,134 million). The Group is
Trade receivables are grouped into customer segments that
exposed to a concentration of credit risk in respect of these
have similar loss patterns to assess credit risk while other
wholesalers such that, if one or more of them encounters
receivables and other financial assets are assessed individually.
financial difficulty, it could materially and adversely affect the
Historical and forward-looking information is considered to
Group’s financial results.
determine the appropriate expected credit loss allowance.
The Group’s credit risk monitoring activities relating to these The Group believes there is no further credit risk provision
wholesalers include a review of their quarterly financial required in excess of the allowance for expected credit losses
information and Standard & Poor’s credit ratings, development (see Note 25, ‘Trade and other receivables’).
of GSK internal risk ratings, and establishment and periodic
review of credit limits.
GSK Annual Report 2019 229Notes to the financial statements continued
43. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Credit enhancements The following methods and assumptions are used to estimate
The Group uses credit enhancements including factoring the fair values of significant financial instruments which are not
and credit insurance to minimise the credit risk of the trade measured at fair value on the balance sheet:
receivables in the Group. At 31 December 2019, £250 million
– Receivables and payables, including put options –
(2018 – £240 million) of GSK trade receivables were insured
approximates to the carrying amount
protecting GSK’s trade receivables balance from loss due
to credit risks such as default, insolvency and bankruptcy. – Liquid investments – approximates to the carrying amount
Each Group entity assesses the credit risk of its private – Cash and cash equivalents – approximates to the carrying
customers to determine if credit insurance is required. amount
Factoring arrangements are managed locally by entities and – Long-term loans – based on quoted market prices (a level 1
are used to mitigate risk arising from large credit risk fair value measurement) in the case of European and US
concentrations. All factoring arrangements are non-recourse. Medium Term Notes; approximates to the carrying amount in
the case of other fixed rate borrowings and floating rate bank
Fair value of financial assets and liabilities
loans
The table on page 231 presents the carrying amounts
and the fair values of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities – Short-term loans, overdrafts and commercial paper –
at 31 December 2019 and 31 December 2018. approximates to the carrying amount because of the short
maturity of these instruments
The fair values of the financial assets and liabilities are included
at the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to – Lease liabilities – approximates to the carrying amount.
transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market
participants at the measurement date.
The following methods and assumptions are used to measure
the fair values of significant financial instruments carried at fair
value on the balance sheet:
– Other investments – equity investments traded in an active
market determined by reference to the relevant stock
exchange quoted bid price; other equity investments
determined by reference to the current market value of similar
instruments, recent financing rounds or the discounted cash
flows of the underlying net assets
– Trade receivables – based on invoiced amount
– Interest rate swaps, foreign exchange forward contracts,
swaps and options – based on the present value of
contractual cash flows or option valuation models using
market sourced data (exchange rates or interest rates) at the
balance sheet date
– Company-owned life insurance policies – based on cash
surrender value
– Cash and cash equivalents – based on net asset value of the
funds
– Contingent consideration for business acquisitions and
divestments – based on present values of expected future
cash flows.
230 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
43. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
2019 2018
Carrying Fair Carrying Fair
value value value value
Notes £m £m £m £m
Financial assets measured at amortised cost:
Other non-current assets b 76 76 49 49
Trade and other receivables b 4,533 4,533 3,761 3,761
Liquid investments 79 79 84 84
Cash and cash equivalents 3,072 3,072 2,338 2,338
Other items in Assets held for sale b 69 69 47 47
Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive
income (FVTOCI):
Other investments designated at FVTOCI a 1,781 1,781 1,250 1,250
Trade and other receivables a,b 1,665 1,665 1,687 1,687
Financial assets mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL):
Other investments a 56 56 72 72
Other non-current assets a,b 787 787 716 716
Trade and other receivables a,b 44 44 120 120
Held for trading derivatives that are not in a designated and
effective hedging relationship a,d,e 357 357 188 188
Cash and cash equivalents a 2,142 2,142 2,021 2,021
Derivatives designated and effective as hedging instruments (fair value movements
through Other comprehensive income) a,d,e 167 167 69 69
Total financial assets 14,828 14,828 12,402 12,402
Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost:
Borrowings excluding obligations under lease liabilities:
– bonds in a designated hedging relationship d (8,636) (9,085) (8,213) (8,279)
– other bonds (15,582) (19,048) (13,307) (15,475)
– bank loans and overdrafts (416) (416) (290) (290)
– commercial paper (3,586) (3,586) (630) (630)
– other borrowings (1,038) (1,038) (3,556) (3,556)
Total borrowings excluding lease liabilities f (29,258) (33,173) (25,996) (28,230)
Lease liabilities (1,250) (1,250) (68) (68)
Total borrowings (30,508) (34,423) (26,064) (28,298)
Trade and other payables c (14,177) (14,177) (13,338) (13,338)
Other provisions c (94) (94) (58) (58)
Other non-current liabilities c (84) (84) (149) (149)
Other items in Assets held for sale c (126) (126) (167) (167)
Financial liabilities mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL):
Contingent consideration liabilities a,c (5,479) (5,479) (6,286) (6,286)
Held for trading derivatives that are not in a designated and
effective hedging relationship a,d,e (141) (141) (23) (23)
Derivatives designated and effective as hedging instruments (fair value movements
through Other comprehensive income) a,d,e (48) (48) (105) (105)
Total financial liabilities (50,657) (54,572) (46,190) (48,424)
Net financial assets and financial liabilities (35,829) (39,744) (33,788) (36,022)
The valuation methodology used to measure fair value in the above table is described and categorised on page 230.
Trade and other receivables, Other non-current assets, Trade and other payables, Other provisions, Other non-current liabilities,
Contingent consideration liabilities and Other items in Assets held for sale are reconciled to the relevant Notes on pages 233
and 234.
Cash and cash equivalents in the table above include £507 million reported in Assets held for sale (see Note 27, ‘Assets held
for sale’).
GSK Annual Report 2019 231Notes to the financial statements continued
43. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Fair value of investments in GSK shares
At 31 December 2019, the Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) Trusts held GSK shares with a carrying value of £135 million
(2018 – £161 million) and a market value of £647 million (2018 – £619 million) based on quoted market price. The shares are held
by the ESOP Trusts to satisfy future exercises of options and awards under employee incentive schemes. In 2019, the carrying
value, which is the lower of cost or expected proceeds, of these shares has been recognised as a deduction from other reserves.
At 31 December 2019, GSK held Treasury shares at a cost of £5,505 million (2018 – £5,800 million) which has been deducted
from retained earnings.
(a) Financial instruments held at fair value
The following tables categorise the Group’s financial assets and liabilities held at fair value by the valuation methodology applied in
determining their fair value. Where possible, quoted prices in active markets are used (Level 1). Where such prices are not available,
the asset or liability is classified as Level 2, provided all significant inputs to the valuation model used are based on observable
market data. If one or more of the significant inputs to the valuation model is not based on observable market data, the instrument is
classified as Level 3. Other investments classified as Level 3 in the tables below comprise equity investments in unlisted entities
with which the Group has entered into research collaborations and also investments in emerging life science companies.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
At 31 December 2019 £m £m £m £m
Financial assets at fair value
Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVTOCI):
Other investments designated at FVTOCI 1,128 – 653 1,781
Trade and other receivables – 1,665 – 1,665
Financial assets mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL):
Other investments – – 56 56
Other non-current assets – 743 44 787
Trade and other receivables – 44 – 44
Held for trading derivatives that are not in a designated and effective hedging relationship – 353 4 357
Cash and cash equivalents 2,142 – – 2,142
Derivatives designated and effective as hedging instruments (fair value movements through OCI) – 167 – 167
3,270 2,972 757 6,999
Financial liabilities at fair value
Financial liabilities mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL):
Contingent consideration liabilities – – (5,479) (5,479)
Held for trading derivatives that are not in a designated and effective hedging relationship – (141) – (141)
Derivatives designated and effective as hedging instruments (fair value movements through OCI) – (48) – (48)
– (189) (5,479) (5,668)
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
At 31 December 2018 £m £m £m £m
Financial assets at fair value
Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVTOCI):
Other investments designated at FVTOCI 656 – 594 1,250
Trade and other receivables – 1,687 – 1,687
Financial assets mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL):
Other investments – – 72 72
Other non-current assets – 675 41 716
Trade and other receivables – 79 41 120
Held for trading derivatives that are not in a designated and effective hedging relationship – 182 6 188
Cash and cash equivalents 2,021 – – 2,021
Derivatives designated and effective as hedging instruments (fair value movements through OCI) – 69 – 69
2,677 2,692 754 6,123
Financial liabilities at fair value
Financial liabilities mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL):
Contingent consideration liabilities – – (6,286) (6,286)
Held for trading derivatives that are not in a designated and effective hedging relationship – (23) – (23)
Derivatives designated and effective as hedging instruments (fair value movements through OCI) – (105) – (105)
– (128) (6,286) (6,414)
232 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
43. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Movements in the year for financial instruments measured using Level 3 valuation methods are presented below:
2019 2018
£m £m
At 1 January (5,532) (5,657)
Net losses recognised in the income statement (103) (1,229)
Net gains recognised in other comprehensive income 31 146
Settlement of contingent consideration liabilities 893 1,137
Settlement of contingent consideration receivables (42) (42)
Additions 241 381
Disposals and settlements (33) (27)
Transfers from Level 3 (174) (241)
Other movements (3) –
At 31 December (4,722) (5,532)
Net losses of £103 million (2018 – £1,229 million) attributable to Level 3 financial instruments which were recognised in the
income statement included net losses of £97 million (2018 – £1,229 million) in respect of financial instruments which were held
at the end of the year. Losses of £105 million (2018 – £1,229 million) were reported in Other operating income and gains of
£2 million (2018 – £nil) were reported in Finance income. Charges of £31 million (2018 – £1,188 million) arose from
remeasurement of the contingent consideration payable for the acquisition of the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture
and £67 million (2018 – £56 million) arose from remeasurement of the contingent consideration payable for the acquisition of the
Novartis Vaccines business. Net gains of £31 million (2018 – £146 million) attributable to Level 3 financial instruments reported in
Other comprehensive income as Fair value movements on equity investments included net gains of £38 million (2018 – net gains
of £140 million) in respect of financial instruments held at the end of the year, of which net gains of £174 million (2018 – net gains
of £98 million) arose prior to transfer from Level 3 on equity investments which transferred to a Level 1 valuation methodology as
a result of listing on a recognised stock exchange during the year. Net gains and losses include the impact of exchange movements.
Financial liabilities measured using Level 3 valuation methods at 31 December included £5,103 million (2018 – £5,937 million) in
respect of contingent consideration payable for the acquisition in 2012 of the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture. This
consideration is expected to be paid over a number of years and will vary in line with the future performance of specified products
and movements in certain foreign currencies. They also included £339 million (2018 – £296 million) in respect of contingent
consideration for the acquisition in 2015 of the Novartis Vaccines business. This consideration is expected to be paid over a
number of years and will vary in line with the future performance of specified products, the achievement of certain milestone
targets and movements in certain foreign currencies. Sensitivity analysis on these balances is provided in Note 32, ‘Contingent
consideration liabilities’.
(b) Trade and other receivables, Other non-current assets and other items in Assets held for sale in scope of IFRS 9
The following table reconciles financial instruments within Trade and other receivables, Other non-current assets and other items
in Assets held for sale which fall within the scope of IFRS 9 to the relevant balance sheet amounts. The financial assets are
predominantly non-interest earning. Financial instruments within the Other non-current assets balance include company-owned
life insurance policies. Non-financial instruments include tax receivables, pension surplus balances and prepayments, which are
outside the scope of IFRS 9.
2019 2018
Non- Non-
At At Amortised Financial financial At At Amortised Financial financial
FVTPL FVTOCI cost instruments instruments Total FVTPL FVTOCI cost instruments instruments Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Trade and other receivables
(Note 25) 44 1,665 4,533 6,242 960 7,202 120 1,687 3,761 5,568 855 6,423
Other non-current assets
(Note 23) 787 – 76 863 157 1,020 716 – 49 765 811 1,576
Other items in Assets held
for sale (Note 27) – – 69 69 22 91 – – 47 47 37 84
831 1,665 4,678 7,174 1,139 8,313 836 1,687 3,857 6,380 1,703 8,083
GSK Annual Report 2019 233Notes to the financial statements continued
43. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
(c) Trade and other payables, Other provisions, Other non-current liabilities, Contingent consideration liabilities and other
items in Assets held for sale in scope of IFRS 9
The following table reconciles financial instruments within Trade and other payables, Other provisions, Other non-current liabilities,
Contingent consideration liabilities and other items in Assets held for sale which fall within the scope of IFRS 9 to the relevant
balance sheet amounts. The financial liabilities are predominantly non-interest bearing. Accrued wages and salaries are included
within financial liabilities. Non-financial instruments include payments on account, tax and social security payables and provisions
which do not arise from contractual obligations to deliver cash or another financial asset, which are outside the scope of IFRS 9.
2019 2018
Non- Non-
Amortised Financial financial Amortised Financial financial
At FVTPL cost instruments instruments Total At FVTPL cost instruments instruments Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Trade and other payables
(Note 28) – (14,177) (14,177) (762) (14,939) – (13,338) (13,338) (699) (14,037)
Other provisions
(Note 31) – (94) (94) (1,197) (1,291) – (58) (58) (1,365) (1,423)
Other non-current liabilities
(Note 33) – (84) (84) (760) (844) – (149) (149) (789) (938)
Contingent consideration
liabilities (Note 32) (5,479) – (5,479) – (5,479) (6,286) – (6,286) – (6,286)
Other items in Assets held
for sale (Note 27) – (126) (126) (87) (213) – (167) (167) (53) (220)
(5,479) (14,481) (19,960) (2,806) (22,766) (6,286) (13,712) (19,998) (2,906) (22,904)
(d) Derivative financial instruments and hedging programmes
Derivatives are only used for economic hedging purposes and not as speculative investments and are classified as ‘held for trading’,
other than designated and effective hedging instruments, and are presented as current assets or liabilities if they are expected to be
settled within 12 months after the end of the reporting period, otherwise they are classified as non-current. The Group has the
following derivative financial instruments:
2019 2018
Fair value Fair value
Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities
£m £m £m £m
Non-current
Cash flow hedges – Interest rate swap contracts
(principal amount – £850 million (2018 – £1,267 million)) 1 – – (1)
Net investment hedges – Cross currency swaps
(principal amount – £1,514 million (2018 – £1,575 million)) 98 – 64 –
Current
Cash flow hedges – Interest rate swap contracts
(principal amount – £637 million (2018 – £nil)) – (1) – –
Cash flow hedges – Foreign exchange contracts
(principal amount – £1,746 million (2018 – £1,809 million)) 24 (17) 1 (56)
Net investment hedges – Foreign exchange contracts
(principal amount – £9,376 million (2018 – £7,316 million)) 44 (30) 4 (48)
Derivatives designated and effective as hedging instruments 167 (48) 69 (105)
Non-current
Embedded and other derivatives 4 (1) 4 –
Current
Foreign exchange contracts
(principal amount – £18,856 million (2018 – £18,537 million)) 103 (140) 82 (23)
Embedded and other derivatives 250 – 102 –
Derivatives classified as held for trading 357 (141) 188 (23)
Total derivative instruments 524 (189) 257 (128)
Fair value hedges
At 31 December 2019, the Group had no designated fair value hedges.
234 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
43. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Net investment hedges
At 31 December 2019, certain foreign exchange contracts were designated as net investment hedges in respect of the foreign
currency translation risk arising on consolidation of the Group’s net investment in its European (Euro), Singaporean (SGD), Indian
(INR) and Japanese (JPY) foreign operations as shown in the table above.
The carrying value of bonds on page 231 included £8,636 million (2018 – £8,213 million) that were designated as hedging
instruments in net investment hedges.
Cash flow hedges
During 2018 and 2019, the Group entered into forward foreign exchange contracts which have been designated as cash flow
hedges. These were entered into to hedge the foreign exchange exposure arising on cash flows from Euro denominated coupon
payments relating to notes issued under the Group’s European Medium Term Note programme, on the buyout of Novartis’
non-controlling interest in the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture in 2018, on the planned divestment of Horlicks and other
nutrition brands in 2019 and on refinancing existing debt maturities.
The Group manages its cash flow interest rate risk by using floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps. In addition, the Group carries a
balance in reserves that arose from pre-hedging fluctuations in long-term interest rates when pricing bonds issued in prior years
and in the current year. The balance is reclassified to finance costs over the life of these bonds.
Foreign exchange risk
In the current year, the Group has designated certain foreign exchange forward contracts and swaps as cash flow and net
investment hedges. Foreign exchange derivative financial assets and liabilities are presented in the line ‘Derivative financial
instruments’ (either as assets or liabilities) on the Consolidated balance sheet. The following tables detail the foreign exchange
forward contracts and swaps outstanding at the end of the reporting period, as well as information on the related hedged items.
The notional value of foreign exchange forward contracts and swaps is the absolute total of outstanding positions at the balance
sheet date.
Hedge effectiveness is determined at the inception of the hedge relationship, and through periodic prospective effectiveness
assessments to ensure that an economic relationship exists between the hedged item and hedging instrument. The Group enters
into hedge relationships where the critical terms of the hedging instrument match exactly with the terms of the hedged item, and so
a qualitative assessment of effectiveness is performed. If changes in circumstances affect the terms of the hedged item such that
the critical terms no longer match exactly with the critical terms of the hedging instrument, the Group uses the hypothetical
derivative method to assess effectiveness.
The main source of hedge ineffectiveness in these hedging relationships is the effect of the counterparty and the Group’s own
credit risk on the fair value of the foreign exchange forward contracts and swaps, which is not reflected in the fair value of the
hedged item attributable to changes in foreign exchange rates and ineffectiveness on rolling the cash flow hedges of the
divestments mentioned above. No other sources of ineffectiveness emerged from these hedging relationships. Ineffectiveness
to be recorded from cash flow hedges amounted to £7 million in 2019 (2018 – £nil). No ineffectiveness was recorded from net
investment hedges (2018 – £nil).
Included in the table below under ‘Borrowings’ are bonds with notional value of US$2 billion that have been swapped to fixed
interest rate EUR debt with a cross currency interest rate swap.
2019
Notional Carrying
Average Foreign value value
Hedging instruments exchange rate currency £m £m
Cash flow hedges
Foreign exchange contracts
Buy foreign currency:
3 to 6 months 1.14 EUR 47 (1)
Over 6 months 1.15 EUR 23 –
Sell foreign currency:
Less than 3 months 93.85 INR/GBP 999 5
Less than 3 months 52.82 INR/SGD 677 3
1,746 7
GSK Annual Report 2019 235Notes to the financial statements continued
43. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
2019
Notional Carrying
Average Foreign value value
Hedging instruments exchange rate currency £m £m
Net investment hedges
Foreign exchange contracts
Sell foreign currency:
Less than 3 months 1.18 EUR 8,250 2
Less than 3 months 1.77 SGD 471 3
Less than 3 months 92.23 INR 239 6
Less than 3 months 142.26 JPY 416 3
Borrowings (including cross currency interest rate swaps):
3 to 6 months EUR 638 (638)
Over 6 months EUR 7,914 (7,998)
17,928 (8,622)
2019
Cumulative balance in cash
Periodic change in value flow hedge reserve/foreign
for calculating hedge currency translation reserve
ineffectiveness for continuing hedges
Hedged items £m £m
Cash flow hedges
Variability in cash flows from a highly probable forecast transaction (7) (42)
Variability in cash flows from foreign exchange exposure arising on
Euro denominated coupon payments relating to debt issued (1) 1
Net investment hedges
Net investment in foreign operations (987) (1,080)
There are no balances in the cash flow hedge reserve arising from hedging relationships for which hedge accounting is no longer
applied.
2018
Average Foreign Notional Carrying
exchange rate currency value value
Hedging instruments £m £m
Cash flow hedges
Foreign exchange contracts
Buy foreign currency:
3 to 6 months 1.13 EUR 26 1
Sell foreign currency:
Over 6 months 96.40 INR 1,783 (56)
1,809 (55)
Net investment hedges
Foreign exchange contracts
Sell foreign currency:
Less than 3 months 1.11 EUR 6,933 (40)
Over 6 months 1.11 EUR 383 (4)
Borrowings (including cross currency interest rate swaps):
Over 6 months EUR 8,155 (8,213)
15,471 (8,257)
236 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
43. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
2018
Cumulative balance in cash
Periodic change in value flow hedge reserve/foreign
for calculating hedge currency translation reserve
ineffectiveness for continuing hedges
Hedged items £m £m
Cash flow hedges
Variability in cash flows from a highly probable forecast transaction 56 (49)
Variability in cash flows from foreign exchange exposure arising on
Euro denominated coupon payments relating to debt issued (1) 1
Net investment hedges
Net investment in European foreign operations 286 (2,067)
There are no balances in the cash flow hedge reserve arising from hedging relationships for which hedge accounting is no longer
applied.
The following table details the effectiveness of the hedging relationships and the amounts reclassified from the hedging reserve to
profit or loss:
2019
Amount reclassified to profit or loss
Line item Hedged
Amount in profit or future cash Line item
Hedging of hedge loss in flows in which
gains/(losses) ineffectiveness which hedge no longer As hedged reclassification
recognised in recognised in ineffectiveness expected to item affects adjustment
reserves profit or loss is included occur profit or loss is included
£m £m £m £m
Cash flow hedges
Variability in cash flows from a highly probable forecast transaction – (7) Other – – Other
operating operating
income/ income/
(expense) (expense)
Variability in cash flows from foreign exchange exposure arising on 1 – Finance – – Finance
Euro denominated coupon payments relating to debt issued income/ income/
(expense) (expense)
Net investment hedges
Net investment in foreign operations 987 – Finance – – Finance
income/ income/
(expense) (expense)
The following table details the effectiveness of the hedging relationships and the amounts reclassified from the hedging reserve to
profit or loss:
2018
Amount reclassified to profit or loss
Line item Hedged
Amount in profit or future cash Line item
Hedging of hedge loss in flows in which
gains/(losses) ineffectiveness which hedge no longer As hedged reclassification
recognised in recognised in ineffectiveness expected to item affects adjustment
reserves profit or loss is included occur profit or loss is included
£m £m £m £m
Cash flow hedges
Variability in cash flows from a highly probable forecast transaction 127 – Other – (176) Other
operating operating
income/ income/
(expense) (expense)
Variability in cash flows from foreign exchange exposure arising on 1 – Finance – – Finance
Euro denominated coupon payments relating to debt issued income/ income/
(expense) (expense)
Net investment hedges
Net investment in European foreign operations (286) – Finance – – Finance
income/ income/
(expense) (expense)
GSK Annual Report 2019 237Notes to the financial statements continued
43. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Interest rate risk
The Group manages its cash flow interest rate risk by using floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps, where at quarterly intervals the
difference between fixed contract rates and floating rate interest amounts calculated by reference to the agreed notional principal
amounts are exchanged.
The interest rate swap contracts, exchanging floating rate interest for fixed interest, have been designated as cash flow hedges to
hedge the variability of the interest cash flows associated with floating rate debt relating to notes issued under the Group’s
European Medium Term Note programme. The interest rate swaps and the interest payments on the loan occur simultaneously and
the amount accumulated in equity is reclassified to profit or loss over the period that the floating rate interest payments affect profit
or loss.
The critical terms of the interest rate swap contracts and their corresponding hedged items are the same. A qualitative assessment
of effectiveness is performed and it is expected that the value of the interest rate swap contracts and the value of the corresponding
hedged items will systematically change in opposite directions in response to movements in the underlying interest rates. The main
sources of ineffectiveness in these hedge relationships are the effects of the Group’s own credit risk on the fair value of the interest
rate swap contracts, which are not reflected in the fair value of the hedged item attributable to the change in interest rates. No other
sources of ineffectiveness emerged from these hedging relationships.
The following tables provide information regarding interest rate swap contracts outstanding and the related hedged items at
31 December 2019 and 31 December 2018. Interest rate swap contract assets and liabilities are presented in the line ‘Derivative
financial instruments’ (either as assets or liabilities) on the Consolidated balance sheet.
2019
Change in
fair value for
Average Notional recognising Fair value
contracted fixed principal hedge assets/
rate value ineffectiveness (liabilities)
Hedging instruments % £m £m £m
Less than 1 year 0.11 637 – (1)
1 to 2 years 0.13 1,418 (6) 33
2019
Change in value Balance in cash
used for flow hedge
calculating reserve for
hedge continuing
ineffectiveness hedges
Hedged items £m £m
Variable rate borrowings 6 4
2018
Change in
fair value for
Average Notional recognising Fair value
contracted fixed principal hedge assets/
rate value ineffectiveness (liabilities)
Hedging instruments % £m £m £m
1 to 2 years 0.11 676 – (1)
2 to 5 years 0.16 591 – 23
2018
Change in value Balance in cash
used for flow hedge
calculating reserve for
hedge continuing
ineffectiveness hedges
Hedged items £m £m
Variable rate borrowings 3 (3)
238 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
43. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
The following table details the effectiveness of the hedging relationships and the amounts reclassified from the hedging reserve to
profit or loss:
2019
Amount reclassified to profit or loss
Line item Hedged
Amount in profit or future cash Line item
Hedging of hedge loss in flows in which
gains/(losses) ineffectiveness which hedge no longer As hedged reclassification
recognised in recognised in ineffectiveness expected to item affects adjustment is
reserves profit or loss is included occur profit or loss included
£m £m £m £m
Cash flow hedges
Variability in cash flows (7) – Finance – (2) Finance
income/ income/
(expense) (expense)
Pre-hedging of long-term interest rates (12) – Finance – 3 Finance
income/ income/
(expense) (expense)
2018
Amount reclassified to profit or loss
Line item Hedged
Amount in profit or future cash Line item
Hedging of hedge loss in flows in which
gains/(losses) ineffectiveness which hedge no longer As hedged reclassification
recognised in recognised in ineffectiveness expected to item affects adjustment is
reserves profit or loss is included occur profit or loss included
£m £m £m £m
Cash flow hedges
Variability in cash flows (3) – Finance – (2) Finance
income/ income/
(expense) (expense)
Pre-hedging of long-term interest rates 15 – Finance – 3 Finance
income/ income/
(expense) (expense)
(e) Offsetting of financial assets and liabilities
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the balance sheet where there is a legally enforceable right
to offset the recognised amounts, and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and settle the liability
simultaneously. There are also arrangements that do not meet the criteria for offsetting but still allow for the related amounts to be
offset in certain circumstances, such as bankruptcy or the termination of a contract.
The following tables set out the financial assets and liabilities that are offset, or subject to enforceable master netting arrangements
and other similar agreements but not offset, as at 31 December 2019 and 31 December 2018. The column ‘Net amount’ shows the
impact on the Group’s balance sheet if all offset rights were exercised.
Gross Financial
financial (liabilities)/ Net financial Related
assets/ assets assets/ amounts not Net
(liabilities) offset (liabilities) offset amount
At 31 December 2019 £m £m £m £m £m
Financial assets
Trade and other receivables 6,246 (4) 6,242 (62) 6,180
Derivative financial instruments 524 – 524 (131) 393
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables (14,181) 4 (14,177) 62 (14,115)
Derivative financial instruments (189) – (189) 131 (58)
GSK Annual Report 2019 239Notes to the financial statements continued
43. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Gross Financial
financial (liabilities)/ Net financial Related
assets/ assets assets/ amounts not Net
(liabilities) offset (liabilities) offset balance
At 31 December 2018 £m £m £m £m £m
Financial assets
Trade and other receivables 5,568 – 5,568 (37) 5,531
Derivative financial instruments 257 – 257 (62) 195
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables (13,338) – (13,338) 37 (13,301)
Derivative financial instruments (128) – (128) 62 (66)
Amounts which do not meet the criteria for offsetting on the balance sheet but could be settled net in certain circumstances
principally relate to derivative transactions under ISDA (International Swaps and Derivatives Association) agreements where each
party has the option to settle amounts on a net basis in the event of default of the other party. As there is presently not a legally
enforceable right of offset, these amounts have not been offset in the balance sheet, but have been presented separately in the
table above.
(f) Debt interest rate repricing table
The following table sets out the exposure of the Group to interest rates on debt, including commercial paper. The maturity analysis
of fixed rate debt is stated by contractual maturity and of floating rate debt by interest rate repricing dates. For the purpose of this
table, debt is defined as all classes of borrowings other than lease liabilities.
2019 2018
Total
debt Total
£m £m
Floating and fixed rate debt less than one year (6,678) (5,769)
Between one and two years (3,235) (1,757)
Between two and three years (2,643) (1,570)
Between three and four years (2,308) (1,568)
Between four and five years (1,595) (2,010)
Between five and ten years (5,904) (5,833)
Greater than ten years (6,895) (7,489)
Total (29,258) (25,996)
Original issuance profile:
Fixed rate interest (21,763) (20,322)
Floating rate interest (7,495) (5,635)
Total interest bearing (29,258) (25,957)
Non-interest bearing – (39)
(29,258) (25,996)
240 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
43. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
(g) Sensitivity analysis
The tables below illustrate the estimated impact on the income statement and equity as a result of hypothetical market movements
in foreign exchange and interest rates in relation to the Group’s financial instruments. The range of variables chosen for the
sensitivity analysis reflects management’s view of changes which are reasonably possible over a one-year period.
Foreign exchange sensitivity
The Group operates internationally and is primarily exposed to foreign exchange risk in relation to Sterling against movements in US
Dollar, Euro and Japanese Yen. Foreign exchange risk arises from the translation of financial assets and liabilities which are not in
the functional currency of the entity that holds them. Based on the Group’s net financial assets and liabilities as at 31 December, a
weakening and strengthening of Sterling against these currencies, with all other variables held constant, is illustrated in the tables
below. The tables exclude financial instruments that expose the Group to foreign exchange risk where this risk is fully hedged with
another financial instrument.
2019 2018
Increase/(decrease) in Increase/(decrease) in
income income
Income statement impact of non-functional currency foreign exchange exposures £m £m
10 cent appreciation of the US Dollar 3 36
10 cent appreciation of the Euro (29) (7)
10 yen appreciation of the Yen – 15
2019 2018
Increase/(decrease) in Increase/(decrease) in
income income
Income statement impact of non-functional currency foreign exchange exposures £m £m
10 cent depreciation of the US Dollar (3) (30)
10 cent depreciation of the Euro 25 6
10 yen depreciation of the Yen – (13)
The equity impact, shown below, for foreign exchange sensitivity relates to derivative and non-derivative financial instruments
hedging the Group’s net investments in its European (Euro) foreign operations and cash flow hedges of its foreign exchange
exposure arising on Euro denominated coupon payments relating to notes issued under the Group’s European Medium Term Note
programme.
2019 2018
Increase/(decrease) Increase/(decrease)
in equity in equity
Equity impact of non-functional currency foreign exchange exposures £m £m
10 cent appreciation of the Euro (1,561) (1,307)
2019 2018
Increase/(decrease) Increase/(decrease)
in equity in equity
Equity impact of non-functional currency foreign exchange exposures £m £m
10 cent depreciation of the Euro 1,316 1,091
GSK Annual Report 2019 241Notes to the financial statements continued
43. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
The tables below present the Group’s sensitivity to a weakening and strengthening of Sterling against the relevant currency based
on the composition of net debt as shown in Note 29 adjusted for the effects of foreign exchange derivatives that are not part of net
debt but affect future foreign currency cash flows.
2019 2018
(Increase)/decrease (Increase)/decrease
in net debt in net debt
Impact of foreign exchange movements on net debt £m £m
10 cent appreciation of the US Dollar (1,051) (714)
10 cent appreciation of the Euro 74 (60)
10 yen appreciation of the Yen (5) 15
2019 2018
(Increase)/decrease (Increase)/decrease
in net debt in net debt
Impact of foreign exchange movements on net debt £m £m
10 cent depreciation of the US Dollar 903 610
10 cent depreciation of the Euro (63) 50
10 yen depreciation of the Yen 5 (13)
Interest rate sensitivity
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on its outstanding borrowings and investments where any changes in interest rates will
affect future cash flows or the fair values of financial instruments.
The majority of debt is issued at fixed interest rates and changes in the floating rates of interest do not significantly affect the
Group’s net interest charge, although the majority of cash and liquid investments earn floating rates of interest.
The table below hypothetically shows the Group’s sensitivity to changes in interest rates in relation to Sterling, US Dollar and Euro
floating rate financial assets and liabilities. If the interest rates applicable to floating rate financial assets and liabilities were to have
increased by 1% (100 basis points), and assuming other variables had remained constant, it is estimated that the Group’s finance
income for 2019 would have decreased by approximately £9 million (2018 – £13 million decrease). A 1% (100 basis points)
movement in interest rates is not deemed to have a material effect on equity.
2019 2018
Increase/(decrease) Increase/(decrease)
in income in income
Income statement impact of interest rate movements £m £m
1% (100 basis points) increase in Sterling interest rates 14 (2)
1% (100 basis points) increase in US Dollar interest rates (4) 1
1% (100 basis points) increase in Euro interest rates (19) (12)
242 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
43. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
(h) Contractual cash flows for non-derivative financial liabilities and derivative instruments
The following tables provide an analysis of the anticipated contractual cash flows including interest payable for the Group’s non-
derivative financial liabilities on an undiscounted basis. For the purpose of this table, debt is defined as all classes of borrowings
except for lease liabilities. Interest is calculated based on debt held at 31 December without taking account of future issuance.
Floating rate interest is estimated using the prevailing interest rate at the balance sheet date. Cash flows in foreign currencies are
translated using spot rates at 31 December.
Finance Trade payables
charge and other
Interest Lease on lease liabilities not
Debt on debt liabilities liabilities in net debt Total
At 31 December 2019 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Due in less than one year (6,678) (780) (240) (41) (14,952) (22,691)
Between one and two years (3,232) (742) (227) (36) (912) (5,149)
Between two and three years (2,651) (667) (119) (30) (806) (4,273)
Between three and four years (2,318) (600) (105) (23) (835) (3,881)
Between four and five years (1,607) (559) (93) (19) (799) (3,077)
Between five and ten years (5,946) (2,276) (296) (52) (3,131) (11,701)
Greater than ten years (6,976) (3,328) (170) (22) (984) (11,480)
Gross contractual cash flows (29,408) (8,952) (1,250) (223) (22,419) (62,252)
Contractual cash flows in respect of operating lease vacant space provisions at 31 December 2018 are excluded from the table
below.
Finance charge Trade payables
Obligations on obligations and other
Interest under finance under finance liabilities not
Debt on debt leases leases in net debt Total
At 31 December 2018 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Due in less than one year (5,771) (714) (24) (5) (14,278) (20,792)
Between one and two years (1,775) (708) (18) (2) (1,107) (3,610)
Between two and three years (1,592) (675) (11) (2) (902) (3,182)
Between three and four years (1,592) (620) (6) (1) (851) (3,070)
Between four and five years (1,970) (567) (3) (1) (826) (3,367)
Between five and ten years (5,875) (2,370) (6) (5) (3,748) (12,004)
Greater than ten years (7,579) (3,764) – – (1,468) (12,811)
Gross contractual cash flows (26,154) (9,418) (68) (16) (23,180) (58,836)
Anticipated contractual cash flows for the repayment of debt and debt interest have increased by £2.8 billion over the year primarily
due to funding of the acquisition of Tesaro.
The table below provides an analysis of the anticipated contractual cash flows for the Group’s derivative instruments excluding
equity options which do not give rise to cash flows, and other embedded derivatives, which are not material, using undiscounted
cash flows. Cash flows in foreign currencies are translated using spot rates at 31 December. The gross cash flows of foreign
exchange contracts are presented for the purpose of this table although, in practice, the Group uses standard settlement
arrangements to reduce its liquidity requirements on these instruments.
Cash flows on interest rate swaps are not shown in the table below as they are not significant.
2019 2018
Gross cash inflows Gross cash ouflows Gross cash inflows Gross cash outflows
Foreign Foreign Foreign Foreign
Cross exchange Cross exchange Cross exchange Cross exchange
currency forward currency forward currency forward currency forward
interest rate contracts interest rate contracts interest rate contracts interest rate contracts
swaps and swaps swaps and swaps swaps and swaps swaps and swaps
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Due in less than one year 33 33,273 (2) (33,290) 49 26,680 (3) (26,802)
Between one and two years 1,529 – (1,430) – 48 – (2) –
Between two and three years – – – – 1,599 – (1,515) –
Gross contractual cash flows 1,562 33,273 (1,432) (33,290) 1,696 26,680 (1,520) (26,802)
The amounts in Gross cash inflows and outflows under Foreign exchange forward contracts and swaps in less than one year have
increased compared with 31 December 2018 predominantly from increased levels of net investment hedging and hedging increased
levels of external and internal commercial paper balances.
GSK Annual Report 2019 243Notes to the financial statements continued
44. Employee share schemes
GSK operates several employee share schemes, including the Share Value Plan, whereby awards are granted to employees to
acquire shares or ADS in GlaxoSmithKline plc at no cost after a three year vesting period and the Performance Share Plan,
whereby awards are granted to employees to acquire shares or ADS in GlaxoSmithKline plc at no cost, subject to the achievement
by the Group of specified performance targets. The granting of these restricted share awards has replaced the granting of options
to employees as the cost of the schemes more readily equates to the potential gain to be made by the employee. The Group also
operates savings related share option schemes, whereby options are granted to employees to acquire shares in GlaxoSmithKline
plc at a discounted price.
Grants of restricted share awards are normally exercisable at the end of the three-year vesting or performance period. Awards are
normally granted to employees to acquire shares or ADS in GlaxoSmithKline plc but in some circumstances may be settled in cash.
Grants under savings-related share option schemes are normally exercisable after three years’ saving. In accordance with UK
practice, the majority of options under the savings-related share option schemes are granted at a price 20% below the market price
ruling at the date of grant. Options under historical share option schemes were granted at the market price ruling at the date of grant.
The total charge for share-based incentive plans in 2019 was £432 million (2018 – £393 million; 2017 – £347 million). Of this
amount, £302 million (2018 – £304 million; 2017 – £276 million) arose from the Share Value Plan. See Note 9, ‘Employee Costs’
for further details.
GlaxoSmithKline share award schemes
Share Value Plan
Under the Share Value Plan, share awards are granted to certain employees at no cost. The awards vest after two and a half to
three years and there are no performance criteria attached. The fair value of these awards is determined based on the closing share
price on the day of grant, after deducting the expected future dividend yield of 4.2% (2018 – 4.8%; 2017 – 4.8%) over the duration
of the award.
Shares Weighted ADS Weighted
Number of shares and ADS issuable Number (000) fair value Number (000) fair value
At 1 January 2017 32,855 17,083
Awards granted 13,018 £13.68 6,610 $35.63
Awards exercised (10,596) (5,674)
Awards cancelled (1,352) (627)
At 31 December 2017 33,925 17,392
Awards granted 12,751 £13.74 6,503 $35.28
Awards exercised (11,089) (5,583)
Awards cancelled (1,519) (925)
At 31 December 2018 34,068 17,387
Awards granted 12,814 £15.85 7,008 $37.90
Awards exercised (11,709) (6,079)
Awards cancelled (1,704) (976)
At 31 December 2019 33,469 17,340
Performance Share Plan
Under the Performance Share Plan, share awards are granted to Directors and senior executives at no cost. The percentage of
each award that vests is based upon the performance of the Group over a defined measurement period with dividends reinvested
during the same period. For awards granted from 2015, the performance conditions are based on three equally weighted measures
over a three-year performance period. These are adjusted free cash flow, TSR and R&D new product performance.
The fair value of the awards is determined based on the closing share price on the day of grant. For TSR performance elements,
this is adjusted by the likelihood of that condition being met, as assessed at the time of grant.
During 2019, awards were made of 3.8 million shares at a weighted fair value of £12.40 and 1.4 million ADS at a weighted fair value
of $32.41. At 31 December 2019, there were outstanding awards over 12.0 million shares and 3.6 million ADS.
244 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
44. Employee share schemes continued
Share options and savings-related options
For the purposes of valuing savings-related options to arrive at the share-based payment charge, a Black-Scholes option pricing
model has been used. The assumptions used in the model are as follows:
2019 Grant 2018 Grant 2017 Grant
Risk-free interest rate 0.44% 0.76% 0.54%
Dividend yield 4.5% 5.3% 5.9%
Volatility 22% 21% 23%
Expected life 3 years 3 years 3 years
Savings-related options grant price (including 20% discount) £14.15 £12.09 £10.86
Share option Share option Savings-related
Options outstanding
schemes – shares schemes – ADS share option schemes
Weighted Weighted Weighted
Number exercise Number exercise Number exercise
000 price 000 price 000 price
At 31 December 2019 337 £12.04 290 $37.21 6,016 £12.21
Range of exercise prices on options outstanding at year end £12.04 – £12.04 $36.63 – $37.32 £10.13 – £14.15
Weighted average market price on exercise during year £16.13 $41.10 £15.60
Weighted average remaining contractual life 0.2 years 0.2 years 2.1 years
Options over 1.0 million shares were granted during the year under the savings-related share option scheme at a weighted average
fair value of £3.00. At 31 December 2019, 5.3 million of the savings-related share options were not exercisable. All of the other
share options and ADS options are currently exercisable and all will expire if not exercised on or before 22 July 2020.
There has been no change in the effective exercise price of any outstanding options during the year.
Employee Share Ownership Plan Trusts
The Group sponsors Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) Trusts to acquire and hold shares in GlaxoSmithKline plc to satisfy
awards made under employee incentive plans and options granted under employee share option schemes. The trustees of the
ESOP Trusts purchase shares with finance provided by the Group by way of loans or contributions. The costs of running the ESOP
Trusts are charged to the income statement. Shares held by the ESOP Trusts are deducted from other reserves and amortised
down to the value of proceeds, if any, receivable from employees on exercise by a transfer to retained earnings. The trustees have
waived their rights to dividends on the shares held by the ESOP Trusts.
Shares held for share award schemes 2019 2018
Number of shares (000) 36,225 41,391
£m £m
Nominal value 9 10
Carrying value 134 160
Market value 645 617
Shares held for share option schemes 2019 2018
Number of shares (000) 139 139
£m £m
Nominal value – –
Carrying value 1 1
Market value 2 2
GSK Annual Report 2019 245Notes to the financial statements continued
45. Principal Group companies
The following represent the principal subsidiaries and their countries of incorporation of the Group at 31 December 2019. The
equity share capital of these entities is wholly owned by the Group except where its percentage interest is shown otherwise. All
companies are incorporated in their principal country of operation except where stated.
England US
Glaxo Group Limited Block Drug Company, Inc. (68%)
Glaxo Operations UK Limited Corixa Corporation
GlaxoSmithKline Capital plc GlaxoSmithKline Capital Inc.
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Holdings Limited* GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Holdings (US) LLC (68%)
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (UK) Trading Limited (68%) GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare, L.P. (59.84%)
GlaxoSmithKline Export Limited GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (Americas) Inc.
GlaxoSmithKline Finance plc GlaxoSmithKline LLC
GlaxoSmithKline Holdings Limited * Human Genome Sciences, Inc.
GlaxoSmithKline Research & Development Limited GSK Consumer Health, Inc. (68%)
GlaxoSmithKline Services Unlimited * PF Consumer Healthcare 1 LLC (68%)
GlaxoSmithKline UK Limited S.R. One, Limited
Setfirst Limited Stiefel Laboratories, Inc.
SmithKline Beecham Limited Tesaro, Inc.
ViiV Healthcare Finance Limited (78.3%) ViiV Healthcare Company (78.3%)
ViiV Healthcare Limited (78.3%)
ViiV Healthcare UK Limited (78.3%)
Europe Others
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals SA (Belgium) GlaxoSmithKline Australia Pty Ltd (Australia)
GlaxoSmithKline Sante Grand Public SAS (France) (68%) GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Australia Pty Ltd (Australia) (68%)
Laboratoire GlaxoSmithKline (France) GlaxoSmithKline Brasil Limitada (Brazil)
ViiV Healthcare SAS (France) (78.3%) GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Inc. (Canada) (68%)
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare GmbH & Co. KG (Germany) (68%) GlaxoSmithKline Inc. (Canada)
GlaxoSmithKline GmbH & Co. KG (Germany) ID Biomedical Corporation of Quebec (Canada)
GSK Vaccines GmbH (Germany) PF Consumer Healthcare Canada ULC/PF Soins De Sante SRI (Canada) (68%)
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare S.p.A. (Italy) (68%) GlaxoSmithKline Limited (China (Hong Kong))
GlaxoSmithKline S.p.A. (Italy) Sino-American Tianjin Smith Kline & French Laboratories Ltd (China) (55%)
GSK Vaccines S.r.l. (Italy) Wyeth Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd (China) (68%)
Pfizer Consumer Manufacturing Italy S.r.l. (Italy) (68%) GlaxoSmithKline Asia Pvt. Limited (India)
GSK Services Sp z o.o. (Poland) GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Limited (India) (72.5%)
GlaxoSmithKline Trading Services Limited (Republic of Ireland) (i) GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Limited (India) (75%)
GlaxoSmithKline Healthcare AO (Russia) (68%) GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Japan K.K. (Japan) (68%)
GlaxoSmithKline S.A. (Spain) GlaxoSmithKline K.K. (Japan)
Laboratorios ViiV Healthcare, S.L. (Spain) (78.3%) ViiV Healthcare Kabushiki Kaisha (Japan) (78.3%)
GSK Consumer Healthcare S.A. (Switzerland) (68%) GlaxoSmithKline Pakistan Limited (Pakistan) (82.6%)
Glaxo Wellcome Manufacturing Pte Ltd. (Singapore)
GlaxoSmithKline Korea Limited (Republic of Korea)
GlaxoSmithKline llaclari Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S. (Turkey)
(i) E xempt from the provisions of section 347 and 348 of the Companies Act 2014 (Ireland), in accordance with the exemptions
noted in Section 357 of that Act. Further subsidiaries, as disclosed on pages 299 to 310, are exempt from these provisions as
they are also consolidated in the group financial statements.
* Directly held wholly-owned subsidiary of GlaxoSmithKline plc.
The subsidiaries and associates listed above principally affect the figures in the Group’s financial statements. Each of
GlaxoSmithKline Capital Inc., GlaxoSmithKline Capital plc and GlaxoSmithKline LLC, is a wholly-owned finance subsidiary of the
company, and the company has fully and unconditionally guaranteed the securities issued by each of GlaxoSmithKline Capital Inc.,
GlaxoSmithKline Capital plc and GlaxoSmithKline LLC.
See pages 299 to 310 for a complete list of subsidiary undertakings, associates and joint ventures, which form part of these
financial statements.
246 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
46. Legal proceedings
The Group is involved in significant legal and administrative Intellectual property
proceedings, principally product liability, intellectual property, Intellectual property claims include challenges to the validity and
tax, anti-trust, consumer fraud and governmental investigations. enforceability of the Group’s patents on various products or
The most significant of these matters, other than tax matters, processes as well as assertions of non-infringement of those
are described below. The Group makes provision for these patents. A loss in any of these cases could result in loss of patent
proceedings on a regular basis as summarised in Note 2, protection for the product at issue. The consequences of any such
‘Accounting principles and policies’ and Note 31, ‘Other loss could be a significant decrease in sales of that product and
provisions’. could materially affect future results of operations for the Group.
The Group may become involved in significant legal proceedings Dolutegravir/Tivicay/Triumeq/Dovato/Juluca
in respect of which it is not possible to make a reliable estimate In September and October 2017, ViiV Healthcare received patent
of the expected financial effect, if any, that could result from challenge letters under the Hatch-Waxman Act from Cipla,
ultimate resolution of the proceedings. In these cases, Dr. Reddy’s Labs and Apotex for Triumeq and Tivicay; letters
appropriate disclosures about such cases would be included from Lupin and Mylan for Triumeq, and a letter from Sandoz for
in this note, but no provision would be made for the cases. Tivicay. ViiV Healthcare lists two patents in the FDA Orange
Book for Tivicay and Triumeq. One patent covers the molecule
With respect to each of the legal proceedings described
dolutegravir and expires on 5 October 2027. The second patent
below, other than those for which a provision has been made,
claims a crystal form of dolutegravir and expires on 8 December
the Group is unable to make a reliable estimate of the expected
2029. All the letters challenged only the later-expiring crystal
financial effect at this stage. The Group does not believe that
form patent. Several of the generic companies allege only that
information about the amount sought by the plaintiffs, if that
the crystal form patent is invalid while others claim the crystal
is known, would be meaningful with respect to those legal
form patent is both invalid and not infringed by their proposed
proceedings. This is due to a number of factors, including,
products. In 2017, ViiV Healthcare filed patent infringement
but not limited to, the stage of proceedings, the entitlement of
suits against all six generic companies. The case against Mylan
parties to appeal a decision and clarity as to theories of liability,
is now proceeding in the Northern District of West Virginia and
damages and governing law.
is set for trial on 21 September 2020. The cases against the
Legal expenses incurred and provisions related to legal claims are other defendants are proceeding in the US District Court for
charged to selling, general and administration costs. Provisions the District of Delaware. The court has yet to set a trial date for
are made, after taking appropriate legal and other specialist those matters.
advice, where an outflow of resources is considered probable
In September 2019, ViiV Healthcare received a paragraph IV
and a reliable estimate can be made of the likely outcome of the
letter from Cipla relating to Dovato and challenging only the
dispute. For certain product liability claims, the Group will make
crystal form patent. On 4 November 2019 ViiV Healthcare
a provision where there is sufficient history of claims made and
filed suit against Cipla in the US District Court for the District
settlements to enable management to make a reliable estimate
of Delaware.
of the provision required to cover unasserted claims. At
31 December 2019, the Group’s aggregate provision for legal In January 2020, ViiV Healthcare received a paragraph IV letter
and other disputes (not including tax matters described in Note from Lupin relating to Juluca and challenging the crystal form
14, ‘Taxation’) was £198 million. The ultimate liability for legal patent as well as a patent relating to the combination of
claims may vary from the amounts provided and is dependent dolutegravir and rilpivirine that expires on 24 January 2031.
upon the outcome of litigation proceedings, investigations and On 28 February 2020 ViiV Healthcare filed suit against Lupin
possible settlement negotiations. on both patents.
The Group’s position could change over time, and, therefore, On 7 February 2018, ViiV Healthcare filed patent infringement
there can be no assurance that any losses that result from the litigation against Gilead Sciences Inc. (Gilead) over bictegravir
outcome of any legal proceedings will not exceed by a material in the US District Court for the District of Delaware (U.S. Patent
amount the amount of the provisions reported in the Group’s No. 8,129,385) and the Canadian Federal Court (Canadian
financial statements. If this were to happen, it could have a patent No. 2,606,282). ViiV Healthcare alleged that Gilead’s
material adverse impact on the results of operations of the triple combination HIV drug containing the HIV integrase
Group in the reporting period in which the judgements are inhibitor bictegravir infringes ViiV Healthcare’s patent covering
incurred or the settlements entered into. dolutegravir and other compounds that include dolutegravir’s
unique chemical scaffold. In both the US and Canada, ViiV
Healthcare is seeking financial redress rather than injunctive
relief.
GSK Annual Report 2019 247Notes to the financial statements continued
46. Legal proceedings continued
On 12 July 2019, Gilead filed a motion for judgement on the Seroxat/Paxil and Paxil CR
pleadings in the US case, arguing that as a matter of law its The Group has received numerous lawsuits and claims alleging
bictegravir compound does not infringe ViiV Healthcare’s that use of Paxil (paroxetine) has caused a variety of injuries.
patent. On 5 February the court denied Gilead’s motion. Most of these lawsuits contain one or more of the following
The US case against Gilead is set for trial on 21 September allegations: (i) that use of Paxil during pregnancy caused
2020. In the Canadian matter, a four-day summary trial on the congenital malformations, persistent pulmonary hypertension
issue of infringement was held on 27-30 January 2020. A or autism; (ii) that Paxil treatment caused patients to commit
decision from the Canadian court is expected by the end of suicidal or violent acts; and (iii) that the Group failed to warn
March 2020. On 20 November 2019, ViiV Healthcare that patients could experience certain symptoms on
commenced actions in the UK, France, Germany, Japan, discontinuing Paxil treatment.
Korea and Australia against Gilead alleging that Gilead’s
– Pregnancy
Biktarvy infringes certain of ViiV Healthcare’s HIV integrase
The Group has reached agreements to settle the majority of the
inhibitor patents.
US claims relating to the use of Paxil during pregnancy as of
Kivexa January 2020, but eleven lawsuits related to use during
In June 2017, Biogaran commenced proceedings in France pregnancy are still pending in various courts in the US.
seeking revocation of the French SPC covering Kivexa. No
The Singh action in Alberta, Canada, seeks to certify a national
trial date has been set for this action.
class action relating to birth defects generally. The court heard
In Q2 2018, ViiV Healthcare commenced proceedings against argument in January 2020 on the plaintiffs’ class certification
Sandoz in Switzerland. Sandoz countered, challenging the motion but has not yet ruled.
validity of the patent relating to Kivexa. This matter was settled
Another Canadian class action, Jensen, alleging claims of Paxil
in Q4 2019.
(and other SSRI) use and autism was filed in Saskatchewan in
Product liability January 2017; however, there has been no activity in the case
The Group is currently a defendant in a number of product since the filing.
liability lawsuits related to the Group’s Pharmaceuticals,
– Acts of violence
Vaccines, and Consumer Healthcare products. The Group
As of January 2020, there were six pending claims or cases
has been able to make a reliable estimate of the expected
concerning allegations that patients who took paroxetine or
financial effect of the matters discussed in this category and
Paxil committed or attempted to commit suicide or acts of
has included a provision, as appropriate, for the matters below
violence: five claims or cases are in the US and one case is in
in the provision for legal and other disputes. Matters for which
Canada. One of the US cases, Dolin, involving the suicide of a
the Group has made a provision are also noted in Note 31,
man who allegedly took generic paroxetine manufactured by
‘Other provisions.’
Mylan, resulted in a $3 million verdict for the plaintiff; however,
Avandia on 22 August 2018 the US Court of Appeals for the Seventh
As of January 2020, there are three remaining US Avandia Circuit reversed the jury verdict and found in favour of the
cases. Two are class actions brought by third-party payers Group. The US Supreme Court then denied plaintiff’s certiorari
asserting claims under the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt request to review the case. Thereafter, however, the plaintiff
Organizations Act (RICO) and state consumer protection laws. filed a motion in the federal district court, asking it to reinstate
In December 2019, the Third Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the jury verdict in light of the US Supreme Court’s pre-emption
the summary judgements granted in favour of the Group and decision in Merck v. Albrecht. The district court denied the
remanded the third-party payer cases back to district court. In plaintiff’s motion on 11 July 2019, but the plaintiff appealed that
the third case, the Santa Clara County (California) Action, the decision to the Seventh Circuit, where oral argument was heard
parties have reached an agreement to settle all remaining on 22 January 2020. A ruling from the Court of Appeals is
claims. pending. The remaining US cases involving claims of violence
are largely dormant.
Additionally, the class action settlement in Canada has now
been approved, and all Avandia class actions in Canada have In the one pending Canadian action, Carmichael, the Group
been either discontinued or dismissed. filed a motion for summary judgement based on the statute of
limitations, which was denied. The Group appealed that ruling,
and oral argument took place on 16 December 2019. A ruling
has not yet been issued.
248 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
46. Legal proceedings continued
– Discontinuation Manufacturers of other PPIs also are named as co-defendants
In the UK, a long-pending group action alleges that Seroxat in the MDL. The Group has filed motions to dismiss several
caused severe discontinuation symptoms. In 2010, the Legal hundred cases, but the MDL Court has not yet ruled on those
Services Commission (LSC) withdrew public funding from motions. The first PPI bellwether trial is set for November 2021.
hundreds of claimants, causing termination of most claims. In
Zantac
2015, the Legal Aid Agency (formerly the LSC) discharged the
The Group has been contacted by several regulatory authorities
public funding certificate following a 2013 recommendation of
regarding the detection of genotoxic nitrosamine (NDMA) in
its Special Cases Review Panel that these cases have poor
Zantac (ranitidine) products. Based on the information received
prospects of success.
to date and correspondence with regulators, the Group made
However, more recently, Fortitude Law was engaged with the the decision in September 2019 to suspend the release,
purpose of resurrecting the Seroxat group action and obtained distribution and supply of all dose forms of Zantac to all markets
third-party funding for the experts and the 103 remaining pending the outcome of the ongoing tests and investigations.
claimants. The Group asked the court to require the third-party Also, as a precautionary action, the Group made the decision in
funder to provide security for the litigation costs in the event early October 2019 to initiate a voluntary pharmacy/retail level
plaintiffs lose. recall of all Zantac products globally. Ranitidine is subject to
regulatory scrutiny and the Group is continuing with
On 8 December 2017, the High Court ruled in favour of the
investigations into the potential source of NDMA. The first
Group on its application for an order that the claimants’ litigation
Zantac personal injury claim was filed on 15 October 2019
funder give security for costs for a sum in excess of the total
against GSK and several other pharmaceutical companies in
funding it had committed to the case. The trial of the action
US federal court in the Eastern District of California, followed by
commenced in April 2019. The judge dismissed the cases on
additional filings, and on 6 February 2020, a multi-district
the grounds that the allegations were insufficient to prove the
litigation (MDL) proceeding to hear Zantac cases was
plaintiffs’ claims and that the cases were too far advanced to
established in the Southern District of Florida.
allow plaintiffs to reframe them. The plaintiffs’ appeal was
heard in late October 2019. On 8 November 2019, the Court Zofran
of Appeal held in favour of GSK, dismissing the appeal Plaintiffs allege that their children suffered birth defects as a
unanimously. On 24 January, the Supreme Court issued an result of the mothers’ ingestion of Zofran and/or generic
order denying plaintiffs’ request to appeal to that court. ondansetron for pregnancy-related nausea and vomiting.
The case will be sent back to the trial court judge for a Plaintiffs assert that the Group sold Zofran knowing it was
determination on whether judgement on these cases now unsafe for pregnant women, failed to warn of the risks, and
can be entered for GSK. illegally marketed Zofran ‘off-label’ for use by pregnant women.
In addition to the UK matters, there is one individual US As of January 2020, the Group is a defendant in 413 personal
discontinuation-type claim pending in the Central District injury lawsuits. All but two of the lawsuits are part of a multi-
of California. The plaintiff in that matter alleges claims of district litigation (MDL) proceeding in US federal court in the
dystonia/dyskinesia caused by ingestion of Paxil. Trial is set District of Massachusetts.
for 27 October 2020.
In the wake of the US Supreme Court’s pre-emption decision
PPI litigation in Merck v. Albrecht, the MDL judge directed GSK to re-file its
The Group is a defendant in the ongoing proton pump inhibitor motion for summary judgment on federal pre-emption grounds.
(PPI) litigation, in which plaintiffs allege that their use of PPIs
caused serious bodily injuries, including acute kidney injury,
chronic kidney disease or end-stage renal failure. As of January
2020, there are approximately 1,900 personal injury lawsuits
involving Prevacid24HR pending against the Group, nearly all of
which are pending in a multi-district litigation (MDL) proceeding
in the District of New Jersey. In addition, as part of the
consumer business transaction with Pfizer, there are now
approximately 2,500 cases involving Nexium24HR pending
against the Group in the same MDL. A small subset of cases
involving both products are also pending in several state courts.
GSK Annual Report 2019 249Notes to the financial statements continued
46. Legal proceedings continued
The Court heard oral argument on GSK’s renewed motion on Average wholesale price
5 November 2019. Additionally, in response to plaintiffs’ claims The Attorney General in Illinois filed suit against the Group
that FDA would have changed Zofran’s labelling had GSK and a number of other pharmaceutical companies claiming
provided certain additional information to FDA, on 1 November damages and restitution due to average wholesale price (AWP)
2019, GSK submitted a Citizen Petition to FDA providing the and/or wholesale acquisition cost (WAC) price reporting for
information identified by plaintiffs and requesting that FDA pharmaceutical products covered by the state’s Medicaid
provide guidance on whether such information merits a label programmes. The case alleged that the Group reported or
change. The Court has deferred the first trial date to 4 May caused to be reported false AWP and WAC prices, which, in
2020 to allow FDA time to respond to the Petition. turn, allegedly caused the state Medicaid agency to reimburse
providers more money for covered medicines than the agency
GSK is also a defendant in four proposed class actions in
intended. The state sought recovery on behalf of itself as payer
Canada. There has been no significant activity in these matters.
and on behalf of in-state patients as consumers. GSK settled
Sales and marketing and regulation the matter with the state as announced in October 2019,
The Group’s marketing and promotion of its Pharmaceutical and thereby concluding the matter.
Vaccine products are the subject of certain governmental
Cidra third-party payer litigation
investigations and private lawsuits brought by litigants under
On 25 July 2013, 41 major US healthcare insurers filed a lawsuit
various theories of law. The Group has been able to make a
against the Group, seeking compensation for reimbursements
reliable estimate of the expected financial effect of the matters
they made for medicines manufactured between 2000 and
discussed in this category and has included a provision for such
2006 at the Group’s former Cidra plant in Puerto Rico. The
matters in the provision for legal and other disputes, except as
insurers claimed that the Group knowingly marketed and sold
noted below.
adulterated drugs manufactured under conditions non-compliant
Matters for which the Group has made a provision are also with cGMP (current good manufacturing practices) and that
noted in Note 31, ‘Other provisions’. they, as third-party insurers, were unlawfully induced to pay
SFO and SEC/DOJ Anti-corruption enquiries for them. In November 2019, the Group resolved the lawsuit
On 27 May 2014, the UK Serious Fraud Office (SFO) began and reached a settlement with all plaintiffs, thereby concluding
a formal criminal investigation into the Group’s commercial the matter.
operations in a number of countries, including China. The
SFO inquiry followed investigations initiated by China’s Ministry
of Public Security in June 2013 (the ‘China Investigations’).
Parallel investigations were undertaken by the US Securities
and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the US Department of
Justice (DOJ).
While the underlying commercial operations investigations have
been resolved, as previously reported, in the course of its
inquiry, the SFO had requested additional information from the
Group regarding third-party advisers engaged by the company
in the course of the China Investigations. The SEC and DOJ are
also investigating these matters. The Group is co-operating and
responding to these requests. On 22 February 2019, the SFO
announced that it had closed its investigation and confirmed
that it would be taking no further action against the Group.
The SEC and DOJ investigations into these matters continue.
The Group is unable to make a reliable estimate of the expected
financial effect of these investigations, and no provision has
been made for them.
250 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
46. Legal proceedings continued
Anti-trust/competition Commercial and corporate
Certain governmental actions and private lawsuits have been The Group is a defendant in certain cases which allege
brought against the Group alleging violation of competition or violations of US federal securities and ERISA laws. The Group
anti-trust laws. The Group has been able to make a reliable has been able to make a reliable estimate of the expected
estimate of the expected financial effect of the matters financial effect of the matters discussed in this category and
discussed in this category and has included a provision for has included a provision for such matters in the provision for
such matters in the provision for legal and other disputes, legal and other disputes. Matters for which the Group has made
except as noted below. a provision are also noted in Note 31, ‘Other provisions’.
Matters for which the Group has made a provision are also Securities/ERISA class actions – Stiefel
noted in Note 31, ‘Other provisions’. On 12 December 2011, the US Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC) filed a formal complaint against Stiefel
UK Competition and Markets Authority investigation
Laboratories, Inc., and Charles Stiefel in the US District Court
On 12 February 2016, the UK Competition and Markets
for the District of Florida, alleging that Stiefel and its principals
Authority (CMA) issued a decision fining the Group
violated federal securities laws by inducing Stiefel employees
£37.6 million for infringement of the Competition Act, in
to sell their shares in the employee stock plan back to the
connection with agreements to settle patent disputes the
company at a greatly undervalued price and without disclosing
Group entered into in 2001 and 2002 with potential suppliers
to employees that the company was about to be sold to the
of generic paroxetine formulations. The Group appealed to the
Group. After several years of inactivity, the case was
Competition Appeal Tribunal (CAT), which delivered its initial
re-assigned to a new judge, who set a trial date of 6 July 2020.
judgement upholding the fine on 8 March 2018 but referred
On 26 February 2020, the parties reached an agreement in
certain questions of law to the European Union Court of Justice
principle to settle the case, which is subject to final approval
(ECJ). On 30 January 2020, the ECJ issued its judgement
by the SEC.
endorsing the criteria used by the CMA in levying the fine,
and the matter now will return to the CAT for entry of a final In addition to the SEC case, one private matter (the Martinolich
judgement. case) remains. It is also pending in federal district court in
Florida but has been stayed pending the trial of the SEC matter.
Lamictal
The allegations in the Martinolich case largely track those in the
Purported classes of direct and indirect purchasers filed suit in
SEC matter: the plaintiff, a former Stiefel employee, alleges that
the US District Court for the District of New Jersey alleging that
Stiefel and its officers and directors violated the US Employee
the Group and Teva Pharmaceuticals unlawfully conspired to
Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) and federal and state
delay generic competition for Lamictal, resulting in overcharges
securities laws by inducing Stiefel employees to sell their shares
to the purchasers, by entering into an allegedly anti-competitive
in the employee stock plan back to Stiefel at a greatly
reverse payment settlement to resolve patent infringement
undervalued price and without disclosing to employees that
litigation. A separate count accuses the Group of monopolising
Stiefel was about to be sold to the Group.
the market.
On 26 June 2015, the Court of Appeals reversed the trial
court’s decision to dismiss the case and remanded the action
back to the trial court. On 18 May 2016, the trial court denied
the indirect purchaser class plaintiffs’ motion for reconsideration
of the Court’s dismissal of their claims. As a result, the indirect
purchaser class representatives agreed to a settlement to exit
the case and resolve their remaining claims. On 13 December
2018, the trial judge granted plaintiffs’ class certification motion,
certifying a class of direct purchasers in this action. The Group
is pursuing an appeal with the Court of Appeals regarding the
class certification. On 18 March 2019, the Third Circuit Court
of Appeals granted the Group’s motion agreeing to review the
class certification decision. Briefing for the appeal has
concluded. Oral argument is expected to occur in March 2020.
GSK Annual Report 2019 251Company balance sheet – UK GAAP
(including FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’) as at 31 December 2019
2019 2019 2018 2018
Notes £m £m £m £m
Fixed assets – investments E 54,854 19,987
Current assets:
Trade and other receivables F 2,210 8,394
Cash at bank 12 12
Total current assets 2,222 8,406
Bank overdrafts – (12)
Short term borrowings G (1,000) (3,500)
Trade and other payables H (609) (610)
Total current liabilities (1,609) (4,122)
Net current assets 613 4,284
Total assets less current liabilities 55,467 24,271
Provisions for liabilities I (4) (16)
Other non-current liabilities J (317) (282)
Net assets 55,146 23,973
Capital and reserves
Share capital K 1,346 1,345
Share premium account K 3,174 3,091
Other reserves 1,420 1,420
Retained earnings:
At 1 January 18,117 22,106
Loss for the year (53) (62)
Other changes in retained earnings 31,142 (3,927)
L 49,206 18,117
Equity shareholders’ funds 55,146 23,973
The financial statements on pages 252 to 256 were approved by the Board on 3 March 2020 and signed on its behalf by
Sir Jonathan Symonds
Chairman
GlaxoSmithKline plc
Registered number: 3888792
Company statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 December 2019
Share Share premium Other Retained Total
capital account reserves earnings equity
£m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2018 1,343 3,019 1,420 22,106 27,888
Loss and Total comprehensive expense attributable to shareholders – – – (62) (62)
Dividends to shareholders – – – (3,927) (3,927)
Shares issued under employee share schemes 2 72 – – 74
At 31 December 2018 1,345 3,091 1,420 18,117 23,973
Loss for the year – – – (53) (53)
Distribution received of GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Holdings Limited – – – 34,800 34,800
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – 34,747 34,747
Dividends to shareholders – – – (3,953) (3,953)
Shares issued under employee share schemes 1 50 – – 51
Treasury shares transferred to the ESOP Trusts – 33 – 295 328
At 31 December 2019 1,346 3,174 1,420 49,206 55,146
252 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the company balance sheet –
UK GAAP
(including FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’)
A) Presentation of the financial statements Accounting principles and policies
Description of business The preparation of the balance sheet in conformity with
GlaxoSmithKline plc is the parent company of GSK, a major generally accepted accounting principles requires management
global healthcare group which is engaged in the creation to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported
and discovery, development, manufacture and marketing of amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent
pharmaceutical products, including vaccines, over-the-counter assets and liabilities at the date of the balance sheet. Actual
(OTC) medicines and health-related consumer products. amounts could differ from those estimates.
Preparation of financial statements The balance sheet has been prepared in accordance with the
The financial statements, which are prepared using the company’s accounting policies approved by the Board and
historical cost convention (as modified to include the revaluation described in Note B. These policies have been consistently
of certain financial instruments) and on a going concern basis, applied, unless otherwise stated.
are prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard Key accounting judgements and estimates
101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’ and with UK accounting No key accounting judgements or estimates were required in
presentation and the Companies Act 2006 as at 31 December the current year.
2019, with comparative figures as at 31 December 2018.
B) Accounting policies
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the
Foreign currency transactions
income statement of the company is not presented in this
Foreign currency transactions are recorded at the exchange
Annual Report.
rate ruling on the date of transaction. Foreign currency assets
The company is included in the Group financial statements of and liabilities are translated at rates of exchange ruling at the
GlaxoSmithKline plc, which are publicly available. balance sheet date.
The following exemptions from the requirements of IFRS have Dividends paid and received
been applied in the preparation of these financial statements, Dividends paid and received are included in the financial
in accordance with FRS 101: statements in the period in which the related dividends are
– Paragraphs 45(b) and 46 to 52 of IFRS 2, ‘Share-based actually paid or received.
payment’ Expenditure
– IFRS 7, ‘Financial Instruments – Disclosures’ Expenditure is recognised in respect of goods and services
received when supplied in accordance with contractual terms.
– Paragraphs 91-99 of IFRS 13, ‘Fair value measurement’
Provision is made when an obligation exists for a future liability
– Paragraph 38 of IAS 1, ‘Presentation of financial statements’ in respect of a past event and where the amount of the
comparative information requirements in respect of obligation can be reliably estimated.
paragraph 79(a) (iv) of IAS 1
Investments in subsidiary companies
– Paragraphs 10(d), 10(f), 16, 38(A), 38 (B to D), 40 (A to D), Investments in subsidiary companies are held at cost less any
111 and 134 to 136 of IAS 1, ‘Presentation of financial provision for impairment and also adjusted for movements in
statements’ contingent consideration.
– IAS 7, ‘Statement of cash flows’ Impairment of investments
The carrying value of investments are reviewed for impairment
– Paragraph 30 and 31 of IAS 8, ‘Accounting policies, changes
when there is an indication that the investment might be
in accounting estimates and errors’
impaired. Any provision resulting from an impairment review
– Paragraph 17 of IAS 24, ‘Related party disclosures’ and the is charged to the income statement in the year concerned.
further requirement in IAS 24 to disclose related party
Share-based payments
transactions entered into between two or more members
The issuance by the company to its subsidiaries of a grant over
of a Group.
the company’s shares, represents additional capital
Accounting convention and standards contributions by the company in its subsidiaries. An additional
The balance sheet has been prepared using the historical investment in subsidiaries results in a corresponding increase
cost convention and complies with applicable UK accounting in shareholders’ equity. The additional capital contribution is
standards. based on the fair value of the grant issued, allocated over the
underlying grant’s vesting period.
GSK Annual Report 2019 253Notes to the company balance sheet – UK GAAP
(including FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’) continued
Taxation Financial guarantees
Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid Liabilities relating to guarantees issued by the company on
applying tax rates that have been enacted or substantively behalf of its subsidiaries are initially recognised at fair value
enacted by the balance sheet date. and amortised over the life of the guarantee.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on C) O perating profit
temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets A fee of £12,000 (2018 – £12,000) relating to the audit of the
and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial company has been charged in operating profit.
statements. Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the
D) Dividends
extent that they are considered recoverable against future
The directors declared four interim dividends resulting in a
taxable profits.
dividend for the year of 80 pence, in line with the dividend for
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are
2018. For further details, see Note 16 to the Group financial
expected to apply in the periods in which the temporary
statements, ‘Dividends’.
differences are expected to be realised or settled. Deferred
tax liabilities and assets are not discounted.
E) Fixed assets – investments
2019 2018
£m £m
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Services Unlimited 637 613
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (One) Limited 18 18
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Holdings Limited 17,888 17,888
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Holdings Limited 34,800 –
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Mercury Limited 33 33
53,376 18,552
Capital contribution relating to share-based payments 1,139 1,139
Contribution relating to contingent consideration 339 296
54,854 19,987
The shares in GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Holdings Limited were received during the year as a dividend in specie as
part of a Group reorganisation prior to the acquisition of the Pfizer consumer healthcare business.
F) Trade and other receivables
2019 2018
£m £m
Amounts due within one year:
UK Corporation tax recoverable 14 10
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 1,645 7,889
1,659 7,899
Amounts due after more than one year:
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 551 495
2,210 8,394
254 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the company balance sheet – UK GAAP
(including FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’) continued
G) Short-term borrowings
The £1 billion borrowing at 31 December 2019 relates to the balance of a facility taken out in June 2018 as part of the financing
of the buyout of the non-controlling interest in the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture held by Novartis. The maturity date of the
remaining borrowing is now 1 June 2020.
H) Trade and other payables
2019 2018
£m £m
Amounts due within one year:
Other creditors 564 567
Contingent consideration payable 22 14
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 23 29
609 610
The company has guaranteed debt issued by its subsidiary companies from two of which it receives fees. In aggregate, the company
has outstanding guarantees over £27.8 billion of debt instruments (2018 – £22.2 billion). The amounts due from the subsidiary
company in relation to these guarantee fees will be recovered over the life of the bonds and are disclosed within ‘Trade and other
receivables’ (see Note F).
I) Provisions for liabilities
2019 2018
£m £m
At 1 January 16 27
Exchange adjustments – 2
Charge for the year 5 16
Utilised (17) (29)
At 31 December 4 16
The provisions relate to a number of legal and other disputes in which the company is currently involved.
J) Other non-current liabilities
2019 2018
£m £m
Contingent consideration payable 317 282
317 282
The contingent consideration relates to the amount payable for the acquisition in 2015 of the Novartis Vaccines portfolio. The
current year liability is included within ‘Trade and other payables’.
GSK Annual Report 2019 255Notes to the company balance sheet – UK GAAP
(including FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’) continued
K) Share capital and share premium account
Share
premium
Ordinary Shares of 25p each account
Number £m £m
Share capital issued and fully paid
At 1 January 2018 5,372,553,820 1,343 3,019
Issued under employee share schemes 6,513,804 2 72
At 31 December 2018 5,379,067,624 1,345 3,091
Issued under employee share schemes 4,034,607 1 50
Ordinary shares acquired by ESOP trusts – – 33
At 31 December 2019 5,383,102,231 1,346 3,174
31 December 31 December
2019 2018
000 000
Number of shares issuable under employee share schemes 57,871 56,723
Number of unissued shares not under option 4,559,027 4,564,209
At 31 December 2019, of the issued share capital, 36,365,045 shares were held in the ESOP Trusts, 393,505,950 shares were
held as Treasury shares and 4,953,231,236 shares were in free issue. All issued shares are fully paid. The nominal, carrying and
market values of the shares held in the ESOP Trusts are disclosed in Note 44, ‘Employee share schemes’.
L) Retained earnings
The loss of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year was £53 million (2018 – £62 million loss). After dividends paid of £3,953 million
(2018 – £3,927 million), the effect of £295 million Treasury shares transferred to a subsidiary company (2018 – £nil) and the
£34,800 million distribution received of the shares in a subsidiary company, retained earnings at 31 December 2019 stood at
£49,206 million (2018 – £18,117 million), of which £38,896 million was unrealised (2018 – £4,096 million). Dividends to
shareholders are paid out of the realised profits of the company, which at 31 December 2019 amounted to £10,310 million
(2018 – £14,021 million).
M) Group companies
See pages 299 to 310 for a complete list of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, which forms part of these financial
statements.
256 GSK Annual Report 2019SSttrraatteeggicic r erepporotrt
GGoovveerrnnaannccee a nadn dre rmeumnuernaetiroantion
FFiinnaanncciaial ls stattaetmemenetsnts
IInnvveessttoor ri ninfoformrmataiotnion
Investor
information
In this section
Quarterly trend 258
Pharmaceuticals turnover 260
Vaccines turnover 262
Five year record 263
Product development pipeline 269
Products, competition and intellectual property 272
Principal risks and uncertainties 275
Share capital and share price 288
Dividends 290
Financial calendar 291
Annual General Meeting 2020 291
Tax information for shareholders 292
Shareholder services and contacts 294
US law and regulation 296
Group companies 299
Glossary of terms 311
GGSSKK AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22001199 225577Financial record
Quarterly trend
An unaudited analysis of the Group results is provided by quarter in Sterling for the financial year 2019.
Income statement – Total
12 months 2019 Q4 2019 Q3 2019 Q2 2019 Q1 2019
Reported Pro-forma Reported Reported Reported Reported
£m £% CER% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER%
Turnover
Pharmaceuticals 17,554 2 – – 4,558 (5) (4) 4,531 7 3 4,307 2 (1) 4,158 4 2
Vaccines 7,157 21 19 19 1,742 18 21 2,308 20 15 1,585 26 23 1,522 23 20
Consumer Healthcare 8,995 17 17 2 2,571 35 37 2,526 30 25 1,917 5 4 1,981 – 1
33,706 9 8 4 8,871 8 10 9,365 16 11 7,809 7 5 7,661 6 5
Corporate and other unallocated turnover 48 28 20 – –
Total turnover 33,754 10 8 4 8,899 9 11 9,385 16 11 7,809 7 5 7,661 6 5
Cost of sales (11,863) 16 16 (3,248) 12 14 (3,245) 23 21 (2,637) 14 14 (2,733) 14 15
Selling, general and administration (11,402) 15 13 (3,443) 31 31 (2,892) 14 11 (2,590) 5 3 (2,477) 7 6
Research and development (4,568) 17 15 (1,243) 16 17 (1,206) 22 18 (1,113) 20 17 (1,006) 11 8
Royalty income 351 17 17 82 4 4 118 26 24 78 7 4 73 38 42
Other operating income/(expense) 689 855 (13) (63) (90)
Operating profit 6,961 27 23 1,902 22 29 2,147 12 3 1,484 90 80 1,428 15 10
Net finance costs (814) (195) (213) (216) (190)
Share of after-tax profits of associates
and joint ventures 74 4 17 (4) 57
Profit before taxation 6,221 30 25 1,711 25 32 1,951 14 4 1,264 >100 94 1,295 17 11
Taxation (953) (194) (235) (214) (310)
Tax rate % 15.3% 11.3% 12.0% 16.9% 23.9%
Profit after taxation for the period 5,268 30 26 1,517 17 23 1,716 13 3 1,050 >100 >100 985 30 23
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 623 218 164 86 155
Profit attributable to shareholders 4,645 1,299 1,552 964 830
Basic earnings per share (pence) 93.9p 27 23 26.2p 6 12 31.4p 9 (1) 19.5p >100 >100 16.8p 50 42
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 92.6p 25.9p 31.0p 19.3p 16.7p
Income statement – Adjusted
Total turnover 33,754 10 8 4 8,899 9 11 9,385 16 11 7,809 7 5 7,661 6 5
Cost of sales (10,079) 10 10 5 (2,848) 12 15 (2,785) 17 15 (2,243) 8 7 (2,203) 1 2
Selling, general and administration (10,715) 13 12 7 (3,117) 23 23 (2,768) 20 16 (2,433) 4 2 (2,397) 5 4
Research and development (4,339) 16 14 13 (1,164) 14 16 (1,164) 21 17 (1,040) 20 16 (971) 9 6
Royalty income 351 17 17 17 82 4 4 118 26 24 78 7 4 73 38 42
Operating profit 8,972 3 – (3) 1,852 (16) (11) 2,786 10 3 2,171 3 (1) 2,163 12 9
Net finance costs (810) (197) (206) (220) (187)
Share of after-tax profits of associates
and joint ventures 74 4 17 (4) 57
Profit before taxation 8,236 2 (1) 1,659 (18) (13) 2,597 12 4 1,947 – (4) 2,033 13 10
Taxation (1,318) (207) (411) (300) (400)
Tax rate % 16.0% 12.5% 15.8% 15.4% 19.7%
Profit after taxation for the period 6,918 6 3 1,452 (13) (8) 2,186 16 8 1,647 6 2 1,633 14 10
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 787 225 275 138 149
Profit attributable to shareholders 6,131 1,227 1,911 1,509 1,484
Adjusted earnings per share (pence) 123.9p 4 1 24.8p (21) (16) 38.6p 9 1 30.5p 9 4 30.1p 22 18
The calculation of Adjusted results is described on page 50.
258 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Financial record continued
Quarterly trend Quarterly trend continued
An unaudited analysis of the Group results is provided by quarter in Sterling for the financial year 2019.
Income statement – Total
12 months 2019 Q4 2019 Q3 2019 Q2 2019 Q1 2019
Reported Pro-forma Reported Reported Reported Reported
£m £% CER% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER%
Turnover
Pharmaceuticals 17,554 2 – – 4,558 (5) (4) 4,531 7 3 4,307 2 (1) 4,158 4 2
Vaccines 7,157 21 19 19 1,742 18 21 2,308 20 15 1,585 26 23 1,522 23 20
Consumer Healthcare 8,995 17 17 2 2,571 35 37 2,526 30 25 1,917 5 4 1,981 – 1
33,706 9 8 4 8,871 8 10 9,365 16 11 7,809 7 5 7,661 6 5
Corporate and other unallocated turnover 48 28 20 – –
Total turnover 33,754 10 8 4 8,899 9 11 9,385 16 11 7,809 7 5 7,661 6 5
Cost of sales (11,863) 16 16 (3,248) 12 14 (3,245) 23 21 (2,637) 14 14 (2,733) 14 15
Selling, general and administration (11,402) 15 13 (3,443) 31 31 (2,892) 14 11 (2,590) 5 3 (2,477) 7 6
Research and development (4,568) 17 15 (1,243) 16 17 (1,206) 22 18 (1,113) 20 17 (1,006) 11 8
Royalty income 351 17 17 82 4 4 118 26 24 78 7 4 73 38 42
Other operating income/(expense) 689 855 (13) (63) (90)
Operating profit 6,961 27 23 1,902 22 29 2,147 12 3 1,484 90 80 1,428 15 10
Net finance costs (814) (195) (213) (216) (190)
Share of after-tax profits of associates
and joint ventures 74 4 17 (4) 57
Profit before taxation 6,221 30 25 1,711 25 32 1,951 14 4 1,264 >100 94 1,295 17 11
Taxation (953) (194) (235) (214) (310)
Tax rate % 15.3% 11.3% 12.0% 16.9% 23.9%
Profit after taxation for the period 5,268 30 26 1,517 17 23 1,716 13 3 1,050 >100 >100 985 30 23
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 623 218 164 86 155
Profit attributable to shareholders 4,645 1,299 1,552 964 830
Basic earnings per share (pence) 93.9p 27 23 26.2p 6 12 31.4p 9 (1) 19.5p >100 >100 16.8p 50 42
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 92.6p 25.9p 31.0p 19.3p 16.7p
Income statement – Adjusted
Total turnover 33,754 10 8 4 8,899 9 11 9,385 16 11 7,809 7 5 7,661 6 5
Cost of sales (10,079) 10 10 5 (2,848) 12 15 (2,785) 17 15 (2,243) 8 7 (2,203) 1 2
Selling, general and administration (10,715) 13 12 7 (3,117) 23 23 (2,768) 20 16 (2,433) 4 2 (2,397) 5 4
Research and development (4,339) 16 14 13 (1,164) 14 16 (1,164) 21 17 (1,040) 20 16 (971) 9 6
Royalty income 351 17 17 17 82 4 4 118 26 24 78 7 4 73 38 42
Operating profit 8,972 3 – (3) 1,852 (16) (11) 2,786 10 3 2,171 3 (1) 2,163 12 9
Net finance costs (810) (197) (206) (220) (187)
Share of after-tax profits of associates
and joint ventures 74 4 17 (4) 57
Profit before taxation 8,236 2 (1) 1,659 (18) (13) 2,597 12 4 1,947 – (4) 2,033 13 10
Taxation (1,318) (207) (411) (300) (400)
Tax rate % 16.0% 12.5% 15.8% 15.4% 19.7%
Profit after taxation for the period 6,918 6 3 1,452 (13) (8) 2,186 16 8 1,647 6 2 1,633 14 10
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 787 225 275 138 149
Profit attributable to shareholders 6,131 1,227 1,911 1,509 1,484
Adjusted earnings per share (pence) 123.9p 4 1 24.8p (21) (16) 38.6p 9 1 30.5p 9 4 30.1p 22 18
The calculation of Adjusted results is described on page 50.
GSK Annual Report 2019 259Financial record continued
Pharmaceutical turnover by therapeutic area 2019
Total US Europe International
2019 2018 Growth 2019 Growth 2019 Growth 2019 Growth
Therapeutic area/major products £m £m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER%
Respiratory 3,081 2,612 18 15 1,742 10 6 783 29 29 556 33 31
Ellipta products 2,313 2,049 13 10 1,289 4 – 577 26 27 447 29 27
Anoro Ellipta 514 476 8 5 324 2 (2) 120 19 20 70 23 21
Arnuity Ellipta 48 44 9 5 41 5 3 – – – 7 40 20
Incruse Ellipta 262 284 (8) (10) 161 (13) (17) 73 (1) (1) 28 17 17
Relvar/Breo Ellipta 971 1,089 (11) (13) 381 (34) (37) 282 11 12 308 21 19
Trelegy Ellipta 518 156 >100 >100 382 >100 >100 102 >100 >100 34 >100 >100
Nucala 768 563 36 33 453 33 28 206 36 37 109 56 50
HIV 4,854 4,722 3 1 3,004 3 (1) 1,156 (3) (2) 694 13 13
Dolutegravir products 4,633 4,420 5 2 2,938 4 – 1,086 – – 609 22 22
Tivicay 1,662 1,639 1 (1) 977 (6) (9) 395 5 6 290 28 28
Triumeq 2,549 2,648 (4) (6) 1,611 (4) (7) 626 (11) (11) 312 15 15
Juluca 366 133 >100 >100 303 >100 >100 56 >100 >100 7 >100 >100
Dovato 56 – – – 47 – – 9 – – – – –
Epzicom/Kivexa 75 117 (36) (35) 3 (57) (57) 23 (48) (48) 49 (26) (24)
Selzentry 97 115 (16) (17) 53 (9) (12) 29 (17) (14) 15 (32) (32)
Other 49 70 (30) (31) 10 (44) (44) 18 (25) (29) 21 (25) (25)
Immuno-inflammation 613 472 30 25 535 27 23 46 28 28 32 >100 94
Benlysta 613 473 30 25 535 27 23 46 24 24 32 >100 94
Oncology 230 – – – 134 – – 96 – – – – –
Zejula 229 – – – 134 – – 95 – – – – –
Established pharmaceuticals 8,776 9,463 (7) (8) 1,987 (22) (24) 2,044 (8) (8) 4,745 1 1
Established Respiratory 3,900 4,316 (10) (11) 1,415 (21) (23) 807 (13) (12) 1,678 4 3
Seretide/Advair 1,730 2,422 (29) (29) 502 (54) (56) 502 (16) (16) 726 – (1)
Flixotide/Flovent 629 595 6 4 368 11 6 88 (5) (4) 173 2 2
Ventolin 938 737 27 25 547 55 49 120 (8) (7) 271 6 7
Avamys/Veramyst 324 300 8 6 (2) >(100) >(100) 69 (7) (5) 257 14 11
Other Respiratory 279 262 6 2 – – – 28 – (4) 251 7 3
Dermatology 445 435 2 3 3 – – 159 (1) (1) 283 4 6
Augmentin 602 570 6 6 – – – 172 (5) (4) 430 11 11
Avodart 574 572 – (1) 4 (67) (67) 208 (13) (12) 362 13 11
Imigran/Imitrex 138 141 (2) (3) 59 2 – 52 (9) (7) 27 4 –
Lamictal 566 617 (8) (10) 284 (8) (12) 112 (1) – 170 (12) (13)
Seroxat/Paxil 160 170 (6) (6) – – – 37 (5) (5) 123 (6) (7)
Valtrex 107 123 (13) (15) 14 (33) (38) 31 3 3 62 (14) (15)
Other 2,284 2,519 (9) (9) 208 (40) (43) 466 (5) (4) 1,610 (4) (4)
Pharmaceuticals 17,554 17,269 2 – 7,402 (1) (4) 4,125 1 2 6,027 5 4
260 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Financial record continued
Pharmaceutical turnover by therapeutic area 2018
Total US Europe International
2018 2017 Growth 2018 Growth 2018 Growth 2018 Growth
Therapeutic area/major products £m £m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER%
Respiratory 2,612 1,930 35 38 1,586 28 31 609 55 54 417 40 45
Ellipta products 2,049 1,586 29 32 1,245 24 27 457 42 41 347 33 38
Anoro Ellipta 476 342 39 42 318 36 39 101 46 45 57 46 54
Arnuity Ellipta 44 35 26 29 39 22 25 – – – 5 67 67
Incruse Ellipta 284 201 41 44 186 39 42 74 45 45 24 50 56
Relvar/Breo Ellipta 1,089 1,006 8 10 581 (3) (1) 253 25 24 255 26 31
Trelegy Ellipta 156 2 >100 >100 121 >100 >100 29 >100 >100 6 – –
Nucala 563 344 64 66 341 44 48 152 >100 >100 70 84 89
HIV 4,722 4,350 9 11 2,913 8 10 1,194 7 6 615 14 20
Dolutegravir products 4,420 3,870 14 16 2,830 11 13 1,091 18 17 499 28 35
Tivicay 1,639 1,404 17 19 1,036 12 15 377 20 18 226 37 47
Triumeq 2,648 2,461 8 9 1,670 2 5 706 17 15 272 21 25
Juluca 133 5 >100 >100 124 >100 >100 8 – – 1 – –
Dovato – – – – – – – – – – – – –
Epzicom/Kivexa 117 234 (50) (48) 7 (74) (74) 44 (61) (61) 66 (28) (24)
Selzentry 115 128 (10) (9) 58 (12) (11) 35 (17) (17) 22 10 15
Other 70 118 (41) (40) 18 (59) (59) 24 (35) (38) 28 (26) (21)
Immuno-inflammation 472 377 25 28 420 24 27 36 33 33 16 45 64
Benlysta 473 375 26 29 420 24 27 37 37 33 16 60 80
Oncology – – – – – – – – – – – – –
Zejula – – – – – – – – – – – – –
Established pharmaceuticals 9,463 10,619 (11) (8) 2,534 (23) (21) 2,233 (9) (10) 4,696 (4) 1
Established Respiratory 4,316 5,061 (15) (13) 1,782 (23) (21) 924 (13) (14) 1,610 (4) –
Seretide/Advair 2,422 3,130 (23) (21) 1,097 (32) (30) 599 (19) (20) 726 (7) (4)
Flixotide/Flovent 595 596 – 3 333 3 6 93 (2) (3) 169 (5) 1
Ventolin 737 767 (4) (1) 352 (7) (5) 130 (2) (2) 255 – 7
Avamys/Veramyst 300 281 7 10 – – – 74 (3) (4) 226 11 16
Other Respiratory 262 287 (9) (7) – – – 28 4 – 234 (9) (7)
Dermatology 435 456 (4) – 3 (57) (57) 161 (1) (2) 271 (5) 2
Augmentin 570 587 (3) 2 – – – 181 (1) (2) 389 (4) 3
Avodart 572 613 (7) (5) 12 (20) (20) 240 (19) (20) 320 6 11
Imigran/Imitrex 141 168 (16) (16) 58 (25) (23) 57 (12) (14) 26 – –
Lamictal 617 650 (5) (3) 310 (7) (5) 113 6 5 194 (8) (4)
Seroxat/Paxil 170 184 (8) (5) – – – 39 – – 131 (10) (7)
Valtrex 123 128 (4) (1) 21 5 5 30 3 3 72 (9) (4)
Other 2,519 2,772 (9) (6) 348 (34) (32) 488 (3) (4) 1,683 (4) 1
Pharmaceuticals 17,269 17,276 – 2 7,453 (2) 1 4,072 2 1 5,744 – 5
GSK Annual Report 2019 261Financial record continued
Vaccines turnover 2019
Total US Europe International
2019 2018 Growth 2019 Growth 2019 Growth 2019 Growth
Major products £m £m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER%
Meningitis 1,018 881 16 15 430 15 10 343 2 3 245 43 50
Bexsero 679 584 16 16 260 30 25 319 3 4 100 37 48
Menveo 267 232 15 13 170 (2) (6) 18 6 6 79 93 100
Other 72 65 11 11 – – – 6 (25) (25) 66 16 16
Influenza 541 523 3 1 412 7 3 56 (15) (15) 73 1 4
Fluarix, FluLaval 541 523 3 1 412 7 3 56 (15) (15) 73 1 4
Shingles 1,810 784 >100 >100 1,669 >100 >100 54 >100 >100 87 78 76
Shingrix 1,810 784 >100 >100 1,669 >100 >100 54 >100 >100 87 78 76
Established vaccines 3,788 3,706 2 1 1,394 15 11 1,035 (11) (10) 1,359 1 2
Infanrix, Pediarix 733 680 8 6 360 22 17 213 (20) (19) 160 36 35
Boostrix 584 517 13 11 299 13 9 156 (4) (3) 129 43 44
Hepatitis 874 808 8 6 529 16 11 231 (6) (5) 114 9 10
Rotarix 558 521 7 6 140 11 6 112 2 3 306 7 8
Synflorix 468 424 10 11 – – – 54 (7) (5) 414 13 13
Priorix, Priorix Tetra, Varilrix 232 305 (24) (23) – – – 100 (37) (37) 132 (9) (9)
Cervarix 50 138 (64) (64) – – – 21 5 5 29 (75) (76)
Other 289 313 (8) (7) 66 3 2 148 8 10 75 (33) (33)
Vaccines 7,157 5,894 21 19 3,905 45 39 1,488 (5) (4) 1,764 8 9
£% represents growth at actual exchange rates. CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates.
Vaccines turnover 2018
Total US Europe International
2018 2017 Growth 2018 Growth 2018 Growth 2018 Growth
Major products £m £m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER%
Meningitis 881 890 (1) 2 374 10 13 336 (14) (15) 171 7 22
Bexsero 584 556 5 9 200 32 34 311 (9) (11) 73 18 52
Menveo 232 274 (15) (12) 174 (7) (5) 17 (50) (50) 41 (23) (15)
Other 65 60 8 7 – – – 8 (47) (47) 57 27 24
Influenza 523 488 7 10 385 7 9 66 35 33 72 (8) (1)
Fluarix, FluLaval 523 488 7 10 385 7 9 66 35 33 72 (8) (1)
Shingles 784 22 >100 >100 733 >100 >100 2 – – 49 – –
Shingrix 784 22 >100 >100 733 >100 >100 2 – – 49 – –
Established vaccines 3,706 3,760 (1) – 1,209 5 8 1,157 – (1) 1,340 (8) (6)
Infanrix, Pediarix 680 743 (8) (7) 296 (10) (8) 266 (16) (17) 118 20 28
Boostrix 517 560 (8) (7) 265 1 3 162 (12) (14) 90 (20) (19)
Hepatitis 808 693 17 19 458 21 24 245 22 21 105 (7) –
Rotarix 521 524 (1) 1 126 (5) (2) 110 16 15 285 (4) (2)
Synflorix 424 509 (17) (17) – – – 58 (13) (13) 366 (17) (18)
Priorix, Priorix Tetra, Varilrix 305 301 1 2 – – – 159 (3) (4) 146 6 9
Cervarix 138 134 3 2 – – – 20 (31) (34) 118 12 12
Other 313 296 6 6 64 45 49 137 32 30 112 (24) (25)
Vaccines 5,894 5,160 14 16 2,701 45 48 1,561 (2) (4) 1,632 (3) –
£% represents growth at actual exchange rates. CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates.
262 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Financial record continued
Five year record
A record of financial performance is provided, analysed in accordance with current reporting practice. The information included in
the Five year record is prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union and also with IFRS as issued by the
International Accounting Standards Board.
2019 2018 2017 2016 2015
Group turnover by geographic region £m £m £m £m £m
US 13,890 11,982 11,263 10,197 8,222
Europe 8,069 7,973 7,943 7,476 6,435
International 11,795 10,866 10,980 10,216 9,266
33,754 30,821 30,186 27,889 23,923
2019 2018 2017 2016 2015
Group turnover by segment £m £m £m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals 17,554 17,269 17,276 16,104 14,157
Vaccines 7,157 5,894 5,160 4,592 3,656
Consumer Healthcare 8,995 7,658 7,750 7,193 6,038
Segment turnover 33,706 30,821 30,186 27,889 23,851
Corporate and other unallocated turnover 48 – – – 72
33,754 30,821 30,186 27,889 23,923
2018 2017 2016 2015
2019 (revised) (revised) (revised) (revised)
Pharmaceuticals turnover £m £m £m £m £m
Respiratory 3,081 2,612 1,930 1,052 354
HIV 4,854 4,722 4,350 3,556 2,322
Immuno-inflammation 613 472 377 340 263
Oncology 230 – – – –
Established Pharmaceuticals 8,776 9,463 10,619 11,156 11,218
17,554 17,269 17,276 16,104 14,157
2019 2018 2017 2016 2015
Vaccines turnover £m £m £m £m £m
Meningitis 1,018 881 890 662 326
Influenza 541 523 488 414 268
Shingles 1,810 784 22 – –
Established Vaccines 3,788 3,706 3,760 3,516 3,062
7,157 5,894 5,160 4,592 3,656
2019 2018 2017 2016 2015
Consumer Healthcare turnover £m £m £m £m £m
Wellness 4,526 3,940 4,001 3,726 2,970
Oral health 2,673 2,496 2,466 2,223 1,875
Nutrition 1,176 643 680 674 684
Skin health 620 579 603 570 509
8,995 7,658 7,750 7,193 6,038
GSK Annual Report 2019 263Financial record continued
Five year record continued
2019 2018 2017 2016 2015
Financial results – Total £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 33,754 30,821 30,186 27,889 23,923
Operating profit 6,961 5,483 4,087 2,598 10,322
Profit before taxation 6,221 4,800 3,525 1,939 10,526
Profit after taxation 5,268 4,046 2,169 1,062 8,372
pence pence pence pence pence
Basic earnings per share 93.9 73.7 31.4 18.8 174.3
Diluted earnings per share 92.6 72.9 31.0 18.6 172.3
2019 2018 2017 2016 2015
millions millions millions millions millions
Weighted average number of shares in issue:
Basic 4,947 4,914 4,886 4,860 4,831
Diluted 5,016 4,971 4,941 4,909 4,888
2019 2018 2017 2016 2015
Financial results – Adjusted £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 33,754 30,821 30,186 27,889 23,923
Operating profit 8,972 8,745 8,568 7,671 5,659
Profit before taxation 8,236 8,078 7,924 7,024 5,021
Profit after taxation 6,918 6,543 6,257 5,526 4,045
pence pence pence pence pence
Adjusted earnings per share 123.9 119.4 111.8 100.6 74.6
% % % % %
Return on capital employed 56.5 134.0 83.4 28.0 152.4
Return on capital employed is calculated as total profit before taxation as a percentage of average net assets over the year.
264 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Financial record continued
Five year record continued
2019 2018 2017 2016 2015
Balance sheet £m £m £m £m £m
Non-current assets 60,201 41,139 40,474 42,370 36,859
Current assets 19,491 16,927 15,907 16,711 16,587
Total assets 79,692 58,066 56,381 59,081 53,446
Current liabilities (24,050) (22,491) (26,569) (19,001) (13,417)
Non-current liabilities (37,285) (31,903) (26,323) (35,117) (31,151)
Total liabilities (61,335) (54,394) (52,892) (54,118) (44,568)
Net assets 18,357 3,672 3,489 4,963 8,878
Shareholders’ equity (2018 revised - see Note 1) 11,405 3,781 (68) 1,124 5,114
Non-controlling interests (2018 revised - see Note 1) 6,952 (109) 3,557 3,839 3,764
Total equity 18,357 3,672 3,489 4,963 8,878
Number of employees
2019 2018 2017 2016 2015
US 16,676 13,804 14,526 14,491 14,696
Europe 40,524 41,943 43,002 42,330 43,538
International 42,237 39,743 40,934 42,479 43,021
99,437 95,490 98,462 99,300 101,255
Manufacturing 36,925 36,527 38,245 38,372 38,855
Selling 39,184 36,351 37,374 38,158 39,549
Administration 11,249 10,768 11,307 11,244 11,140
Research and development 12,079 11,844 11,536 11,526 11,711
99,437 95,490 98,462 99,300 101,255
The geographic distribution of employees in the table above is based on the location of GSK’s subsidiary companies. The number
of employees is the number of permanent employed staff at the end of the financial period. It excludes those employees who are
employed and managed by GSK on a contract basis.
Exchange rates
As a guide to holders of ADS, the following tables set out, for the periods indicated, information on the exchange rate of US Dollars
for Sterling as reported by the Bank of England (4pm buying rate).
The average rate for the year is calculated as the average of the 4pm buying rates for each day of the year.
2019 2018 2017 2016 2015
Average 1.28 1.34 1.29 1.35 1.53
2020 2020 2019 2019 2019 2019
Feb Jan Dec Nov Oct Sep
High 1.31 1.32 1.33 1.30 1.30 1.25
Low 1.29 1.30 1.29 1.28 1.22 1.21
The 4pm buying rate on 24 February 2020 was £1= US$1.29.
GSK Annual Report 2019 265Financial record continued
Five year record continued
Divestments,
Intangible Intangible significant
Adjusted results reconciliation Total asset asset Major Transaction- legal and Adjusted
results amortisation impairment restructuring related other items results
31 December 2019 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 33,754 33,754
Cost of sales (11,863) 713 30 658 383 – (10,079)
Gross profit 21,891 713 30 658 383 – 23,675
Selling, general and administration (11,402) 4 332 104 247 (10,715)
Research and development (4,568) 64 49 114 2 (4,339)
Royalty income 351 351
Other operating (expense)/income 689 1 (142) (548) –
Operating profit 6,961 777 83 1,105 345 (299) 8,972
Net finance costs (814) 5 (1) (810)
Share of after-tax profits of associates and joint ventures 74 74
Profit before taxation 6,221 777 83 1,110 345 (300) 8,236
Taxation (953) (156) (17) (208) (124) 140 (1,318)
Tax rate 15.3% 16.0%
Profit after taxation 5,268 621 66 902 221 (160) 6,918
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 623 164 787
Profit attributable to shareholders 4,645 621 66 902 57 (160) 6,131
Earnings per share 93.9p 12.6p 1.3p 18.2p 1.2p (3.3)p 123.9p
Weighted average number of shares (millions) 4,947 4,947
Divestments,
Intangible Intangible significant
Adjusted results reconciliation Total asset asset Major Transaction- legal and Adjusted
results amortisation impairment restructuring related other items results
31 December 2018 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 30,821 30,821
Cost of sales (10,241) 536 69 443 15 – (9,178)
Gross profit 20,580 536 69 443 15 – 21,643
Selling, general and administration (9,915) 2 315 98 38 (9,462)
Research and development (3,893) 44 45 49 20 (3,735)
Royalty income 299 299
Other operating (expense)/income (1,588) 2 1,864 (278) –
Operating profit 5,483 580 116 809 1,977 (220) 8,745
Net finance costs (717) 4 (3) 18 (698)
Profit on disposal of associates 3 (3) –
Share of after-tax profits of associates and joint ventures 31 31
Profit before taxation 4,800 580 116 813 1,974 (205) 8,078
Taxation (754) (109) (19) (170) (239) (244) (1,535)
Tax rate 15.7% 19.0%
Profit after taxation 4,046 471 97 643 1,735 (449) 6,543
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 423 251 674
Profit attributable to shareholders 3,623 471 97 643 1,484 (449) 5,869
Earnings per share 73.7p 9.6p 2.0p 13.1p 30.2p (9.2)p 119.4p
Weighted average number of shares (millions) 4,914 4,914
266 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Financial record continued
Five year record continued
Divestments,
Intangible Intangible significant
Adjusted results reconciliation Total asset asset Major Transaction- legal and US tax Adjusted
results amortisation impairment restructuring related other items reform results
31 December 2017 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 30,186 30,186
Cost of sales (10,342) 546 400 545 80 – (8,771)
Gross profit 19,844 546 400 545 80 – 21,415
Selling, general and administration (9,672) 248 83 (9,341)
Research and development (4,476) 45 288 263 18 (3,862)
Royalty income 356 356
Other operating (expense)/income (1,965) 1,519 (220) 666 –
Operating profit 4,087 591 688 1,056 1,599 (119) 666 8,568
Net finance costs (669) 4 8 (657)
Profit on disposal of associates 94 (94) –
Share of after-tax profits of associates
and joint ventures 13 13
Profit before taxation 3,525 591 688 1,060 1,599 (205) 666 7,924
Taxation (1,356) (134) (176) (209) (619) (251) 1,078 (1,667)
Tax rate 38.5% 21.0%
Profit after taxation 2,169 457 512 851 980 (456) 1,744 6,257
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 637 42 114 793
Profit attributable to shareholders 1,532 457 512 851 938 (456) 1,630 5,464
Earnings per share 31.4p 9.4p 10.5p 17.4p 19.2p (9.4)p 33.3p 111.8p
Weighted average number of shares (millions) 4,886 4,886
Divestments,
Intangible Intangible significant
Adjusted results reconciliation Total asset asset Major Transaction- legal and Adjusted
results amortisation impairment restructuring related other items results
31 December 2016 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 27,889 27,889
Cost of sales (9,290) 547 7 297 86 2 (8,351)
Gross profit 18,599 547 7 297 86 2 19,538
Selling, general and administration (9,366) 514 55 (8,797)
Research and development (3,628) 41 13 159 (81) 28 (3,468)
Royalty income 398 398
Other operating (expense)/income (3,405) 3,914 (509) –
Operating profit 2,598 588 20 970 3,919 (424) 7,671
Net finance costs (664) 4 8 (652)
Share of after-tax profits of associates and joint ventures 5 5
Profit before taxation 1,939 588 20 974 3,919 (416) 7,024
Taxation (877) (130) (5) (217) (439) 170 (1,498)
Tax rate 45.2% 21.3%
Profit after taxation 1,062 458 15 757 3,480 (246) 5,526
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 150 487 637
Profit attributable to shareholders 912 458 15 757 2,993 (246) 4,889
Earnings per share 18.8p 9.4p 0.3p 15.6p 61.6p (5.1)p 100.6p
Weighted average number of shares (millions) 4,860 4,860
GSK Annual Report 2019 267Financial record continued
Five year record continued
Divestments,
Intangible Intangible significant
Adjusted results reconciliation Total asset asset Major Transaction- legal and Adjusted
results amortisation impairment restructuring related other items results
31 December 2015 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 23,923 23,923
Cost of sales (8,853) 522 147 563 89 12 (7,520)
Gross profit 15,070 522 147 563 89 12 16,403
Selling, general and administration (9,232) 7 1,009 88 151 (7,977)
Research and development (3,560) 41 52 319 52 (3,096)
Royalty income 329 329
Other operating (expense)/income 7,715 2,061 (9,776) –
Operating profit 10,322 563 206 1,891 2,238 (9,561) 5,659
Net finance costs (653) 5 12 (636)
Profit on disposal of associates 843 (843) –
Share of after-tax profits of associates and joint ventures 14 (16) (2)
Profit before taxation 10,526 563 206 1,896 2,238 (10,408) 5,021
Taxation (2,154) (161) (50) (441) (352) 2,182 (976)
Tax rate 20.5% 19.4%
Profit after taxation 8,372 402 156 1,455 1,886 (8,226) 4,045
(Loss)/profit attributable to non-controlling interests (50) 500 (10) 440
Profit attributable to shareholders 8,422 402 156 1,455 1,386 (8,216) 3,605
Earnings per share 174.3p 8.3p 3.2p 30.1p 28.8p (170.1)p 74.6p
Weighted average number of shares (millions) 4,831 4,831
268 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Pipeline, products and competition
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines product development pipeline
Key † I n-license or other alliance relationship with third party, MAA Marketing Authorisation Application (Europe)
with the exception of Rituxan owned by Biogen MA Inc NDA New Drug Application (US)
^ V iiV Healthcare, a global specialist HIV company with Phase I E valuation of clinical pharmacology, usually conducted
GSK, Pfizer, Inc. and Shionogi Limited as shareholders, in volunteers
is responsible for developing and delivering HIV medicines. Phase II D etermination of dose and initial evaluation of efficacy,
1 Option-based alliance with Immunocore Ltd. conducted in a small number of patients
R Receipt of Complete Response Letter Phase III L arge comparative study (compound versus placebo
BLA Biological Licence Application and/or established treatment) in patients to establish
clinical benefit and safety
MAA and NDA/BLA regulatory review milestones shown in the table below are those that have been achieved. Future filing dates are not included in this list.
Achieved regulatory
review milestones
Compound Type Indication Phase MAA NDA/BLA
Oncology
Zejula Poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) 1/2 inhibitor Fourth line treatment ovarian cancer Approved Oct19
(niraparib)† (QUADRA)
First line maintenance ovarian cancer Submitted Feb20 Dec19
and other solid tumours (PRIMA)
III
dostarlimab† Anti-programmed cell death protein 1 receptor dMMR/MSI-H endometrial cancer and Submitted Dec19
(PD-1) antibody other tumours (GARNET)
III
belantamab B-cell maturation antigen antibody drug conjugate multiple myeloma Submitted Dec19 Dec19
mafodotin (DREAMM-2)
(2857916)† III
3359609† Induced T-cell co-stimulator (ICOS) agonist Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma, II/III
antibody non-small cell lung cancer and solid tumours
bintrafusp alfa Transforming growth factor beta (TGFβ) trap and Biliary tract cancer 1L and 2L II/III
(M7824)† immune checkpoint (PD-1) inhibitor bispecific non-small cell lung cancer and other tumours II
3377794† NY-ESO-1 autologous engineered TCR-T cells Sarcoma, solid and heme malignancies II
(engineered TCR)
molibresib BET family bromodomain inhibitor ER+ breast cancer, other solid tumours II
cobolimab Anti-T-cell immunoglobulin and mucin domain-3 non-small cell lung cancer and other tumours II
(TSR-022)† (TIM-3) antibody
3326595† Protein arginine methyltransferase 5 (PRMT5) Solid tumours, heme malignancies I/II
inhibitor
4074386 Anti-lymphocyte activation gene-3 (LAG-3) Cancer I/II
(TSR-033)† antibody
3174998† OX40 agonist monoclonal antibody Cancer I
1795091 Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) agonist Cancer I
3368715† Type I protein arginine methyltransferase 1 Cancer I
(Type I PRMT) inhibitor
35371421 NY-ESO-1-targeting bispecific Cancer I
3745417 STING cytosolic DNA pathway agonist Cancer I
HIV^ and Infectious Diseases
Dectova Neuraminidase inhibitor (i.v.) Influenza Approved Apr19
(zanamivir) i.v.†
dolutegravir + HIV integrase strand transfer inhibitor + nucleoside HIV infection Approved Jul19 Apr19
lamivudine reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NRTI)
fostemsavir HIV attachment inhibitor HIV infection Submitted Jan20 Dec19
cabotegravir + HIV integrase strand transfer inhibitor + non- HIV infection Submitted Jul19 Apr19
rilpivirine† nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI) R: Dec19
(long-acting regimen)
cabotegravir HIV integrase strand transfer inhibitor (long-acting) HIV pre-exposure prophylaxis III
gepotidacin† triazaacenaphthylene bacterial type II topoisomerase uncomplicated urinary tract infection (uUTI) III
inhibitor and gonorrhea (GC)
3228836† HBV antisense oligonucleotide Hepatitis B II
GSK Annual Report 2019 269Pipeline, products and competition continued
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines product development pipeline continued
Achieved regulatory
review milestones
Compound Type Indication Phase MAA NDA/BLA
HIV^ and Infectious Diseases continued
3640254 HIV maturation inhibitor HIV infection II
3036656† Leucyl t-RNA synthetase inhibitor Tuberculosis II
3810109† HIV broadly neutralizing antibody HIV infection I
3186899† CRK-12 inhibitor Visceral leishmaniasis I
3732394 Combinectin HIV entry inhibitor HIV infection I
Immuno-inflammation
Benlysta + Rituxan† B lymphocyte stimulator monoclonal Systemic lupus erythematosus III
antibody (s.c.) +
cluster of differentiation 20 (CD20) Sjogren's syndrome II
monoclonal antibody (i.v.)
Benlysta B lymphocyte stimulator monoclonal Lupus Nephritis III
antibody (s.c.)
otilimab (3196165)† Granulocyte macrophage colony- Rheumatoid arthritis III
stimulating factor monoclonal antibody
2330811 Oncostatin M (OSM) monoclonal Systemic sclerosis II
antibody
2831781† Lymphocyte activation gene 3 (LAG3) Ulcerative colitis II
protein monoclonal antibody
3858279† CCL17 inhibitor Pain in osteoarthritis I
Respiratory
fluticasone furoate + Glucocorticoid agonist + long-acting Asthma Submitted Jan20 Sep19
vilanterol† + beta2 agonist + muscarinic
umeclidinium acetylcholine antagonist
mepolizumab Interleukin 5 (IL5) monoclonal antibody COPD III
Hypereosinophilic syndrome, nasal polyposis
3772847† Interleukin 33r (IL33r) monoclonal Asthma II
antibody
2881078 Selective androgen receptor modulator COPD muscle weakness II
3511294† Interleukin 5 (IL5) long-acting monoclonal Asthma I
antibody
nemiralisib Phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase delta Activated PI3K delta syndrome I
(PI3Kδ) inhibitor
Other Pharmaceuticals
daprodustat Prolyl hydroxylase inhibitor (oral) Anaemia associated with chronic renal disease JNDA JNDA:
Submitted Aug19
III
oxytocin (inhaled)† Oxytocin Postpartum hemorrhage II
linerixibat Ileal bile acid transporter (IBAT) inhibitor Cholestatic pruritus in PBC II
3439171† Hematopoietic prostaglandin D2 Duchenne muscular dystrophy I
(hPGD2) synthase inhibitor
270 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Pipeline, products and competition continued
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines product development pipeline continued
Achieved regulatory
review milestones
Compound Type Indication Phase MAA NDA/BLA
Vaccines
Shingrix† Recombinant protein – adjuvanted Herpes Zoster prophylaxis for immunocompromised Submitted Dec19
(Zoster Vaccine)
Bexsero Recombinant protein Meningococcal B disease prophylaxis in infants (US) III
Rotarix Live attenuated, PCV (Porcine circovirus) Rotavirus prophylaxis Submitted Nov19
free
MMR Live attenuated Measles, mumps, rubella prophylaxis (US) III
Therapeutic Recombinant protein – adjuvanted Reduction of the frequency of moderate and severe II
COPD† acute exacerbations in COPD patients by targeting
non-typeable Haemophilus influenzae and Moraxella
catarrhalis
Malaria next Recombinant protein – adjuvanted Malaria prophylaxis (Plasmodium falciparum) II
generation†
(fractional dose)
Men ABCWY Recombinant protein – conjugated Meningococcal A,B,C,W and Y disease prophylaxis II
in adolescents
Menveo Conjugated. Liquid formulation Meningococcal A,C,W and Y disease prophylaxis in II
adolescents
Shigella† Conjugated (tetravalent) and outer Shigella diarrhea prophylaxis II
membrane vesicles (monovalent)
RSV Replication-defective recombinant Respiratory syncytial virus prophylaxis in paediatric II
viral vector population
Recombinant protein Respiratory syncytial virus prophylaxis in pregnant woman II
population to prevent respiratory syncytial virus lower
respiratory tract illness in infants during first Months of
life by transfer of maternal antibodies†
Recombinant protein – adjuvanted Respiratory syncytial virus prophylaxis in older adult I/II
population†
Therapeutic HBV† Prime-boost with viral vector vaccines Hepatitis B virus therapeutic: functional elimination of I/II
co- or sequentially administrated with immune system mediated chronic infection
adjuvanted recombinant proteins
C. Difficile Recombinant protein – adjuvanted Active immunization for the prevention of the primary C. I
Diff diseases and for prevention of recurrences
SAM (Rabies model) Self-Amplifying mRNA Rabies prophylaxis I
Brand names appearing in italics are trade marks owned by or licensed to the GSK group of companies.
GSK Annual Report 2019 271Pipeline, products and competition continued
Pharmaceutical products, competition and intellectual property
Major Patent expiry dates2
Products Compounds Indication(s) competitor brands US EU
Respiratory
Anoro Ellipta umeclidinium bromide/ COPD Stiolto Respimat, 2027 2029
vilanterol trifenatate Utibron/Ultibro (NCE) (NCE)
Breezhaler, 2027-2030 2022-2026
Duaklir Genuair (device/ (device/
Bevespi, Aerosphere formulation) formulation)
Arnuity Ellipta fluticasone furoate asthma Qvar, Pulmicort 2021 2023
Asmanex, Alvesco (NCE) (NCE)
2027-2030 2022-2026
(device/ (device/
formulation) formulation)
Avamys/Veramyst fluticasone furoate rhinitis Nasonex 20211 2023
Flixotide/Flovent fluticasone propionate asthma/COPD Qvar, Singulair expired expired
(Diskus device) (Diskus device)
2020-2026 expired
(HFA-device) (HFA-device)
Incruse Ellipta umeclidinium bromide COPD Spiriva Handihaler/ 2027 2029
Respimat, Eklira Genuair (NCE) (NCE)
Seebri Breezhaler 2027-2030 2022-2026
(device/ (device/
formulation) formulation)
Nucala mepolizumab severe eosinophilic asthma, EGPA Xolair, Cinqair, expired3 20203
Fasenra, Dupixent
Relvar/Breo Ellipta fluticasone furoate/ asthma/COPD Symbicort, Foster, 2025 2027
vilanterol trifenatate Flutiform, Dulera (NCE) (NCE)
2027-2030 2022-2026
(device/ (device/
formulation) formulation)
Seretide/Advair salmeterol xinafoate/ asthma/COPD Symbicort, Foster, expired expired
fluticasone propionate Flutiform, Dulera (Diskus device) (Diskus device)
2020-2026 expired
(HFA-device) (HFA-device)
Trelegy Ellipta fluticasone furoate/ COPD Trimbow, 2027 2029
vilanterol trifenatate Brextri Aerosphere (NCE) (NCE)
umeclidinium bromide 2027-2030 2022-2026
(device/ (device/
formulation) formulation)
Ventolin HFA albuterol sulphate asthma/COPD generic companies 2020-2026 expired
(HFA-device) (HFA-device)
Anti-virals
Valtrex valaciclovir genital herpes, coldsores, shingles Famvir expired expired
Central nervous system
Lamictal lamotrigine epilepsy, bipolar disorder Keppra, Dilantin expired expired
Imigran/Imitrex sumatriptan migraine Zomig, Maxalt, Relpax expired expired
Seroxat/Paxil paroxetine depression, various anxiety Effexor, Cymbalta, expired expired
disorders Lexapro
Cardiovascular and urogenital
Avodart dutasteride benign prostatic hyperplasia Proscar, Flomax, expired expired
finasteride
Anti-bacterials
Augmentin amoxicillin/clavulanate common bacterial generic products NA expired
potassium infections
Oncology
Zejula niraparib ovarian cancer Lynparza, Rubraca 2030 2028
(NCE) (NCE)
Immuno-inflammation
Benlysta, Benlysta SC belimumab systemic lupus erythematosus 2025 2026
1 Generic competition commenced in 2017.
2 Includes Supplementary Protection Certificates which were granted in multiple countries in EU and patent term extensions granted in the US.
3 Data exclusivity expires 2025 (EU) and 2027 (US).
272 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Pipeline, products and competition continued
Pharmaceutical products, competition and intellectual property continued
Major Patent expiry dates3
Products Compounds Indication(s) competitor brands US EU
HIV
Juluca dolutegravir, rilpivirine HIV/AIDS Descovy, Genvoya, 2027 2029
Odefsey, Biktarvy (NCE) (NCE)
Dovato dolutegravir, lamivudine HIV/AIDS Descovy, Genvoya, 2027 2029
Odefsey, Biktarvy (NCE) (NCE)
Selzentry/Celsentri maraviroc HIV/AIDS Isentress, Intelence, 2021 2022
Prezista (NCE) (NCE)
Tivicay dolutegravir HIV/AIDS Isentress, Prezista 20271 2029
Symtuza, Reyataz, (NCE) (NCE)
Biktarvy
Triumeq dolutegravir, lamivudine HIV/AIDS Descovy, Genvoya 2027 2029
and abacavir Odefsey, Biktarvy (NCE) (NCE)
Vaccine products, competition and intellectual property
Major Patent expiry dates3
Products Compounds Indication(s) competitor brands US EU
Bexsero meningococcal group-B Meningitis group B prevention Trumenba 2027 2028
vaccine
Boostrix diphtheria, tetanus, acellular diphtheria, tetanus, acellular Adacel expired expired
pertussis Pertussis booster vaccination
Infanrix Hexa/Pediarix diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, Prophylaxis against diphtheria, Pentacel, Pediacel, expired expired
polio, hepatitis B, Haemophilus tetanus, pertussis, polio, Pentaxim, Pentavac,
influenzae type B (EU) hepatitis B, Haemophilus Hexaxim, Hexyon
influenzae type B (EU) Vaxelis
Cervarix HPV 16 & 18 virus like human papilloma virus Gardasil (Silgard) 2028 2022
particles (VLPs), AS04 type 16 and 18
adjuvant (MPL + aluminium
hydroxide)
Fluarix Tetra split inactivated influenza seasonal influenza prophylaxis Intenza, Flumist QIV, 2022 2022
antigens (2 virus subtypes A Vaxigrip QIV,
and 2 subtype B) Fluzone QIV,
Fluzone High Dose
FluLaval split inactivated influenza seasonal influenza prophylaxis Vaxigrip, Mutagrip, 2022 2022
antigens (2 virus subtypes A Fluzone, Influvac,
and 2 subtype B) Aggripal, Fluad,
Intenza, Flumist
Menveo meningococcal group A, C, W- Meningitis group A, C, W-135 Nimenrix, Menactra 2025 2025
135 and Y conjugate vaccine and Y prophylaxis
Prepandrix derived split inactivated pandemic H5N1 influenza Aflunov, Vepacel – 2026
influenza virus antigen, prophylaxis
AS03 adjuvant
Priorix, Priorix Tetraa,b live attenuated measles, mumps, measles, mumps, rubella and MMR II (M-M-RVaxPro) expired expired
Varilrixb rubella and varicella vaccine chickenpox prophylaxis Proquad, Varivax
Rotarix Human rotavirus RIX4414 strain Rotavirus prophylaxis Rotateq – 2020
Synflorix conjugated pneumococcal Prophylaxis against invasive Prevenar (Prevnar) NA 2024
polysaccharide disease, pneumonia,
acute otitis media
Shingrix zoster vaccine herpes zoster Zostavax 2026 2026
recombinant, adjuvanted (shingles)
1 See Note 46 to the financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’.
2 Generic competition commenced in many markets during 2016.
3 Includes Supplementary Protection Certificates which were granted in multiple countries in EU and patent term extensions granted in the US.
a Related compounds/indications are measles, mumps and rubella vaccine/prophylaxis
b Related compound is varicella vaccine
GSK Annual Report 2019 273Pipeline, products and competition continued
Consumer Healthcare products and competition
Brand Products Application Markets Competition
Wellness
Respiratory
Otrivin nasal spray nasal decongestant Germany, Netherlands, Afrin, Bayer, Nasivin, Proctor &
Norway, Russia, Sweden Gamble, Tyzine, Johnson & Johnson
Theraflu hot liquids, tablets, syrups cold and flu relief Russia, Poland, US Tylenol Cold & Flu,
Johnson & Johnson
Mucinex, Reckitt Benckiser
Lemsip, Reckitt Benckiser
Flixonase/Flonase nasal spray, tablets allergy relief US, China, UK, Ireland Claritin, Bayer, Allegra, Sanofi
Piriton Zyrtec, Johnson & Johnson
Nicorette (US), lozenges, gum and treatment of nicotine withdrawal global Nicorette, Johnson & Johnson
NicoDerm, trans-dermal patches as an aid to smoking reduction NiQuitin, Perrigo
Nicotinell and cessation
(ex. Australia)
Pain relief
Panadol and tablets, caplets, infant paracetamol-based treatment global (except US) Aspirin, Bayer
Panadol Cold syrup drops for headache, joint pain, fever, Tylenol, Johnson & Johnson
& Flu cold symptoms
Voltaren topical gel non-steroidal, diclofenac based global (except US) Aspirin, Bayer
anti-inflammatory Tylenol, Johnson & Johnson
Advil tablets, caplets, gel caplets, ibuprofen based treatment for US, Canada, Brazil, Tylenol, Tylenol PM, Tylenol
non-respiratory liquid filled suspension, drops headache, toothache, backache, Colombia, Mexico Children’s Motrin, Motrin
range (children’s) menstrual cramps, muscular Children’s, Johnson & Johnson
pains, minor pain of arthritis Aleve, Aleve PM, Bayer
Advil Respiratory tablets allergy relief and cold & flu Tylenol Cold & Flu, Johnson &
Cold and Flu, relief Johnson, Lemsip, Mucinex,
Advil Respiratory Reckit Benckiser
Allergy
Other
ENO effervescent immediate relief antacid global (except US) Estomazil, Hypermarca, Gelusil
Tums chewable tablets immediate relief antacid US Alka-Seltzer, Bayer
Gaviscon, Reckitt Benckiser
Rolaids, Sanofi
Oral health
Sensodyne, toothpastes, toothbrushes, relief of dentinal hypersensitivity. global Colgate Sensitive Pro-Relief,
Pronamel mouth rinse Pronamel additionally protects Colgate-Palmolive
against acid erosion Elmex, Colgate-Palmolive
Oral B, Procter & Gamble
parodontax/ toothpaste, daily/medicated helps stop and prevent global Colgate Total Gum Health,
Corsodyl mouthwash, gel and spray bleeding gums, treats and Colgate-Palmolive
prevents gingivitis Oral B Gum & Enamel Repair,
Crest Gum Detoxify,
Procter & Gamble
Polident, denture adhesive, denture improve retention and comfort global Fixodent and Kukident,
Poligrip, cleanser, wipes of dentures, cleans dentures Procter & Gamble,
Corega Steradent, Reckitt Benckiser
Aquafresh toothpastes, toothbrushes aids prevention of dental cavities, global Colgate, Colgate-Palmolive
mouthwashes maintains healthy teeth, gums Crest, Procter & Gamble
and fresh breath Oral-B, Procter & Gamble
Skin health
Zovirax topical cream and lip care to treat and prevent global Compeed, Johnson & Johnson
Abreva non-medicated patch the onset of cold sores Carmex, Carma Labs
Blistex, Blistex Incorporated
retail own label
ChapStick lip balm protect, moisturise, prevent and global Blistex, Burt’s Bees, Carmex,
soothe chapped lips Carma Labs, EOS, Nivea,
Beiersdorf, Vaseline, Unilever
Nutrition
Centrum tablets vitamin and mineral global Nutralite, Infinitus Cheong-Kwan-
gummies supplementation Jung, By-Health, Nature Made,
Herbalife, Swisse
Caltrate tablets, gummies, calcium supplement global Citracal, Bayer, OS-Cal, Nature
soft chews Made and private label
274 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Principal risks and uncertainties
The principal risks discussed below are the risks and These affect not only the cost of product development but also
uncertainties relevant to our business, financial condition the time required to reach the market and the likelihood of doing
and results of operations that may affect our performance so successfully on an uninterrupted basis.
and ability to achieve our objectives. They are the risks that
As rules and regulations change, government interpretation
we believe could cause our actual results to differ materially
evolves, and our business activities change, the nature of a
from expected and historical results.
particular risk may change. Changes to certain regulatory
During 2019, we continued to embed changes to our risk regimes may be substantial. Any change in, and any failure to
management and reporting cycle to help us identify, manage comply with, applicable laws and regulations could materially
and report our most important risks across the organisation and adversely affect our financial results.
in a more consistent and proportionate way. We completed
Similarly, our global business exposes us to litigation and
Enterprise Risk Plans for all of our most important risks and
government investigations, including but not limited to product
ensured businesses adopted them and only adapted them
liability litigation, patent and antitrust litigation and sales and
with approval. We deployed confirmation across the
marketing litigation. Litigation and government investigations,
organisation, reinforcing leader accountability for risk
including related provisions we may make for unfavourable
management, and measured how well the controls set out
outcomes and increases in related costs such as insurance
in the Enterprise Risk Plans had been implemented and gaps
premiums, could materially and adversely affect our financial
closed. We further evolved our risk management process by
results.
introducing new reports to the Board with more focus on data
and key risk indicators, leading to better informed discussions More detail on the status and various uncertainties in our
on risk exposure and action needed. We introduced a new significant unresolved disputes and potential litigation is set
approach to the annual risk review to support CET decisions out in Note 46 ‘Legal proceedings’.
on any changes required to our most important risks. UK regulations require a discussion of the mitigation activities
We are required to comply with a broad range of laws and a company takes to address principal risks and uncertainties.
regulations which apply to research and development, Below is a description of each of our principal risks with a
manufacturing, testing, approval, distribution, sales and summary of the activities that we take to manage each risk
marketing of Pharmaceutical, Vaccines and Consumer across our businesses. The principal risks and uncertainties
Healthcare products. are not listed in order of significance.
Patient safety
Risk definition Questions about the safety of our products may be raised not
Failure to appropriately collect, review, follow up, or report only by our ongoing safety surveillance and post-marketing
human safety information (HSI), including adverse events from studies but also by governmental agencies and third parties
all potential sources, and to act on any relevant findings in a that may analyse publicly available clinical trial results. Constant
timely manner. vigilance and flexibility are required in order to respond to a varied
regulatory environment which continues to evolve and diverge
Risk impact
globally. Externally, developments in data interrogation present
The risk impact has the potential to compromise our ability to
potential benefits for patient safety but the volume of data to be
conduct robust safety signal detection and interpretation and to
analysed presents a significant challenge which intensifies when
ensure that appropriate decisions are taken with respect to the
coupled with fragmented regulatory requirements and privacy
risk/ benefit profile of our products, including the completeness
concerns. In the economic arena, mergers and acquisition
and accuracy of product labels and the pursuit of additional
activities introduce data integrity risks. Technology presents a
studies/ analyses, as appropriate. Additionally, this risk could
significant opportunity for patient safety risk management by
potentially negatively impact our ability to incorporate verified
creating more reliable data interrogation tools and more accurate
safety signals into local (country) labelling. This could lead to
data collection mechanisms, even though the pace of Artificial
potential harm to patients, reputational damage, product liability
Intelligence development has not been as great as once
claims or other litigation, governmental investigation, regulatory
expected. Cyberattacks are an ever-growing concern given
action such as fines, penalties or loss of product authorisation.
the volume of data and digital dependency.
Context
The Group is currently a defendant in a number of product liability
Pre-clinical and clinical trials are conducted during the
lawsuits, including class actions, that involve significant claims for
development of investigational Pharmaceutical, Vaccine and
damages related to our products. Litigation, particularly in the
Consumer Healthcare products to determine the safety and
US, is inherently unpredictable. Class actions that seek to sweep
efficacy of the products for use by humans. Notwithstanding the
together all persons who take our products increase the potential
efforts we make to determine the safety of our products through
liability. Claims for pain and suffering and punitive damages are
appropriate pre-clinical and clinical trials, unanticipated side
frequently asserted in product liability actions and, if allowed,
effects may become evident only when products are widely
can represent potentially open-ended exposure and thus, could
introduced into the marketplace.
materially and adversely affect the Group’s financial results.
GSK Annual Report 2019 275Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Patient safety continued
Mitigating activities Once a Group product is approved for marketing, we have
The Chief Medical Officer (CMO) is accountable for the an extensive post-marketing surveillance and signal detection
patient safety enterprise risk and has the authoritative role for system. Information on possible side effects of products is
evaluating and addressing matters of human safety. The CMO received from several sources including unsolicited reports
is supported by an enterprise-wide Safety Governance Board from healthcare professionals (HCPs) and patients, regulatory
to provide oversight and management of the control framework, authorities, medical and scientific literature, traditional media
including the risk management process. Product specific safety and social media.
governance boards are in place to ensure that human safety is
Information that changes the risk/benefit profile of one of
addressed proactively throughout the product lifecycle. Each
our products will result in certain actions to characterise,
business has a named medical officer and subsidiary business
communicate and minimise the risk. Proposed actions are
specific boards provide further oversight and governance.
discussed with regulatory authorities and can include modifying
It is our policy that employees are required to report immediately the prescribing information, communications to physicians and
any issues relating to the safety or quality of our products. Each other healthcare providers, restrictions on product prescribing/
of our country managers is responsible for monitoring, exception availability to help assure safe use, and sometimes carrying out
tracking and training that helps assure the collection of safety further clinical trials. In certain cases, it may be appropriate to
information and reporting the information to the relevant central stop clinical trials or to withdraw the medicine from the market.
safety department, in accordance with policy and legal
In 2019, we implemented organisational changes to create a
requirements.
more flexible, scalable and fit for purpose organisation to meet
changing internal and external demands. We are also investing
in system upgrades and quality checks to reduce risks of
individual case safety reports.
Product quality
Risk definition Technological developments are increasingly used to both
Failure by GSK, its contractors or suppliers to ensure: enhance manufacture and to support the inclusion of packaging
features that help secure the legitimate supply chain e.g.
– Appropriate controls and governance of quality in product
serialisation. The threat of cyberattacks remains a key risk to
development
the integrity of product quality data and its audit trail.
– Compliance with good manufacturing practice or good
Significant changes are taking place in GSK as we implement
distribution practice regulations in commercial or clinical
the new organisational alignments and IPTc strategy. These
trials manufacture and distribution activities
changes are assessed by the Quality organisations to ensure
– Compliance with the terms of GSK product licences and our quality procedures and governance can facilitate the
supporting regulatory activities strategy whilst also ensuring that no unintended consequences
Risk impact increase our product quality risk.
A failure to ensure product quality could have far reaching Mitigating activities
implications in terms of patient and consumer safety, delays in An extensive global network of quality and compliance
launching products, drug shortages, product recalls, as well professionals is aligned with each business unit to provide
as regulatory, legal, and financial consequences, which could oversight and assist with the delivery of quality performance and
materially and adversely affect GSK’s reputation and financial operational compliance, from site level to senior management
results. level. Management oversight of those activities is accomplished
Context through a hierarchy of quality councils and through an
The external environment for product quality continues to independent Chief Product Quality Officer and Global Product
be challenging. The single biggest change since 2018 is the Quality Office that provides oversight of product quality risk
political instability and uncertainty surrounding the delivery of across the company.
Brexit and the implications for medicine supply continuity both We have developed and implemented a single Quality
into and out of mainland Europe. Two new sets of requirements Management System that defines the quality standards and
are due to be implemented by EMA shortly and we are systems for our businesses associated with Pharmaceuticals,
preparing for both. In the first quarter of 2020, there will be Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare products and clinical trial
new reporting requirements on potential drug shortages materials. This system has a broad scope and is applicable
and from May 2020 there are new regulations covering the throughout the product lifecycle from R&D to mature
licensing of medical devices. commercial supply. It is augmented by a consolidation of the
numerous regulatory requirements defined by markets across
the world which assures that it meets external expectations for
product quality in the markets supplied. It is based on the
internationally recognised principles from the ‘ICH Q10:
Pharmaceutical Quality Systems’ framework.
276 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Product quality continued
The Quality Management System is routinely updated to Product Incident Committee processes are in place to
ensure that it keeps pace with the evolving external regulatory investigate product issues and make recommendations on
environment and with new scientific understanding of our remediation activities including where necessary, the recall of
products and processes. As part of our drive to continually product from the marketplace in order to protect patients and
improve the operational deployment of our Quality Management consumers. A complaints process is also in place to ensure
System, we are making our policies and procedures simpler to GSK responds to product quality issues raised by patients
understand and implement, as well as adopting innovative tools and customers.
to give a more user-friendly experience. All staff members are
Allegations of non-compliance or misconduct received through
regularly trained in regulatory expectations, learnings from
formal and informal ‘Speak Up’ channels are reviewed and
inspections and current procedures to ensure continued
triaged by independent functions. Global disciplinary and
maintenance of cGMP standards.
enforcement procedures apply to any breaches of our
We have implemented a risk-based approach to assessing and standards, initiated following an investigation.
managing third party suppliers that provide materials which are
Key risk indicators are leveraged to support risk management
used in finished products. Contract manufacturers making our
activities and we provide the Corporate Executive Team and
products are expected to comply with GSK standards and are
Risk Oversight and Compliance Council with an integrated
regularly audited to provide assurance that standards are met.
assessment of product quality performance.
Financial controls and reporting
Risk definition Our Treasury group deals in high value transactions,
Failure to comply with current tax laws or incurring significant mostly foreign exchange and cash management transactions,
losses due to treasury activities; failure to report accurate daily. These transactions involve market volatility and
financial information in compliance with accounting standards counterparty risk.
and applicable legislation.
The Group’s effective tax rate reflects rates of tax in the
Risk impact jurisdictions in which the Group operates that are both higher
Non-compliance with existing or new financial reporting and and lower than the UK rate and considers regimes that
disclosure requirements, or changes to the recognition of income encourage innovation and investment in science by providing
and expenses, could expose us to litigation and regulatory action tax incentives which, if changed, could affect the Group’s tax
and could materially and adversely affect our financial results. rate. In addition, the worldwide nature of our operations means
In the current period of significant political uncertainty especially that our intellectual property, R&D and manufacturing operations
in the USA and UK, there can be significant changes at short are centered in several key locations. A consequence of this
notice. Failure to comply with any changes in the substance is that our cross-border supply routes, necessary to ensure
or application of the governing laws covering transfer pricing, supplies of medicines into numerous end markets, can be
dividends, tax credits, and intellectual property could materially complex and result in conflicting claims from tax authorities as
and adversely affect our financial results. to the profits to be taxed in individual countries. Tax legislation
itself is also complex and differs across the countries in which
Significant losses may arise from inconsistent application of
we operate. As such, tax risk can also arise due to differences in
treasury policies, transactional or settlement errors, or
the interpretation of such legislation. The tax charge included in
counterparty defaults.
our financial statements is our best estimate of tax liability
Context pending audits by tax authorities.
The Group is required by the laws of various jurisdictions to
We expect there to be continued focus on tax reform driven
disclose publicly its financial results and events that could
by initiatives of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation &
materially affect the financial results of the Group. Regulators
Development to address the taxation of the digital economy and
routinely review the financial statements of listed companies
European Commission initiatives including the use of fiscal state
for compliance with new, revised or existing accounting and
aid investigations. Together with domestic initiatives around the
regulatory requirements. The Group believes that it complies
world, these may result in significant changes to established
with the appropriate regulatory requirements concerning our
tax principles and an increase in tax authority disputes. These,
financial statements and disclosure of material information
regardless of their merit or outcomes, can be costly, divert
including any transactions relating to business restructuring such
management attention and may adversely impact our reputation
as acquisitions and divestitures. However, should we be subject
and relationship with key stakeholders.
to an investigation into potential non-compliance with accounting
and disclosure requirements, this can lead to restatements of
previously reported results and significant penalties.
GSK Annual Report 2019 277Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Financial controls and reporting continued
Mitigating activities Counterparty exposure is subject to defined limits approved by
Financial results are reviewed and approved by regional the Board for both credit rating and individual counterparties.
management and then reviewed with the Financial Controller Oversight of Treasury’s role in managing counterparty risk in line
and the Chief Financial Officer (CFO). This allows our Financial with agreed policy is performed by a Corporate Compliance
Controller and our CFO to assess the evolution of the business Officer, who operates independently of Treasury. Further details
over time, and to evaluate performance to plan. Significant on mitigation of Treasury risks can be found on pages 227 to
judgments are reviewed and confirmed by senior management. 229, Note 43 ‘Financial instruments and related disclosures’.
Technical or organisational transformation and newly acquired
Tax risk is managed through robust internal policies, processes,
activities are integrated into risk assessments and appropriate
training and compliance programmes to ensure we have
controls and reviews are applied.
alignment across our business and meet our tax obligations.
We maintain a control environment designed to identify material We seek to maintain open, positive relationships with
errors in financial reporting and disclosure. The design and governments and tax authorities worldwide and we welcome
operating effectiveness of key financial reporting controls are constructive debate on taxation policy. We monitor government
regularly reviewed by management and tested by external third debate on tax policy in our key jurisdictions to deal proactively
parties. A minimum standard control set is in place for all with any potential future changes in tax law. We engage
finance locations irrespective of size and reviewed by advisors and legal counsel to confirm the implications for our
management and monitored independently. This provides us business of tax legislation. Where appropriate, we are active
with the assurance that controls over key financial reporting and in providing relevant business input to tax policy makers.
disclosure processes have operated effectively. Our Global Significant decisions are submitted for consideration to the
Finance Risk Management and Controls Centre of Excellence Tax Governance Board which meets quarterly and comprises
provides extra support during significant transformations such senior personnel from across GSK’s Finance division.
as system deployment or management/structural
Our tax affairs are managed on a global basis through a
reorganisations. We also add operational resources to ensure
coordinated team of tax professionals led by the Global Head of
processes and controls are maintained during such changes.
Tax who works closely with the business. Our tax professionals
Additional risk mitigation has been introduced by amending the
are suitably qualified for the roles they perform, and we support
programme timelines of system upgrades to optimize delivery.
their training needs in order that they continue to be able to
The Disclosure Committee, reporting to the Board, reviews the provide up to date technical advice. We submit tax returns
Group’s quarterly results and Annual Report and determines according to statutory time limits and engage with tax authorities
throughout the year, in consultation with its legal advisors, to seek to ensure our tax affairs are current, entering
whether it is necessary to disclose publicly information about arrangements such as Continuous Audit Programmes and
the Group through Stock Exchange announcements. We keep Advance Pricing Agreements where appropriate. These
up-to-date with the latest developments in financial reporting agreements provide long-term certainty for both tax authorities
requirements by working with our external auditor and legal and for us over the tax treatment of our business. In exceptional
advisors. cases where matters cannot be settled by agreement with tax
authorities, we may have to resolve disputes through formal
The Treasury Management Group meets on a regular basis to
appeals or other proceedings.
seek to ensure that liquidity, interest rate, counterparty, foreign
currency transaction and foreign currency translation risks are all
managed in line with the conservative approach as detailed in the
associated risk strategies and policies which have been adopted
by the Board.
Anti-bribery and corruption (ABAC)
Risk definition Risk impact
The ABAC risk comprises five sub-risk areas: Failure to mitigate this risk could expose the Group and
associated persons to governmental investigation, regulatory
– Bribery of public officials by GSK
action, and civil and criminal liability and may compromise the
– Bribery of commercial and other non-public entities by GSK Group’s ability to supply its products under certain government
– Bribery by third parties acting on behalf of GSK contracts. In addition to legal and financial penalties, a failure to
prevent bribery through complying with ABAC legislation and
– GSK employees receiving and/or requesting bribes and/or
regulations could have substantial implications for the reputation
other undue personal benefit
of the company, the credibility of senior leaders, and an erosion
– Other corruption-non-compliance with laws and regulations of investor confidence in our governance and risk management.
related to money laundering or facilitation of tax evasion by
third parties/clients/partners.
278 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Anti-bribery and corruption (ABAC) continued
Context Our ABAC programme is built on best in class principles and
The macro risk level remains unchanged as we continue to see is subject to ongoing review and development. It provides us
legal frameworks similar to the UK and US develop in emerging with the basis from which we seek to manage the risk from top
economies; high standards are expected of individuals and down and bottom up. For example, the programme comprises
corporations aided by improved technology and increased top-level commitment from the Board of Directors and
enforcement. leadership, and a new data analytics programme to create
and embed local key risk indicators to enable targeted
The overall environment for ABAC in 2019 remained
intervention and risk management activities.
challenging. Divergence of legislation is making compliance
harder and countries are increasingly holding individuals The programme is underpinned by a global ABAC policy
accountable as well as corporations, increasing the employer and written standards that address commercial and other
duty of care. Society is holding corporations to ever higher practices that give rise to ABAC risk. In addition, the
standards with technology providing a speedy and anonymous programme mandates enhanced controls over interactions
avenue for dissemination of previously privileged information or with government officials and during business development
even damaging false reports. Enforcement actions and penalties transactions. Controls in our ABAC policy establish due
have increased across the globe with focus on use of third- diligence requirements for the engagement of third parties.
party intermediaries. Supportive aspects of new policies The ABAC team continually works together with the TPO team
include Latin America moving towards compliance regimes to address and improve controls and monitoring requirements
like those established by the US and UK. In India there was when engaging third parties.
an amendment of the Corruption Act (2018) which explicitly
We provide mandatory periodic ABAC training to our staff
makes an offence to pay a bribe. China has introduced
and relevant third parties in accordance with their roles,
significant anti-bribery and anti-corruption/legislative and
responsibilities and the risks they face.
regulatory reforms.
We have a dedicated ABAC team responsible for the
The GSK exposure remains unchanged.
implementation and evolution of the programme in response
Mitigating activities to developments in the internal and external environment.
Programme governance is provided through Enterprise Risk For example, in 2019 we introduced a global process to
Management overseen by the ABAC/TPO Governance Board centrally document conflicts of interest (COI) of employees
which includes representation from key functional areas and and complementary workers supported by a simpler policy to
the business. This joint board was created in 2019 to ensure ensure we can collate and report on COI management in the
strategic focus across the two principle risk areas as they have organisation.
considerable co-dependency.
This is complemented with independent oversight and
We have an enterprise-wide ABAC programme designed to assurance undertaken by the Audit & Assurance and
ensure compliance with our ABAC policies and mitigate the risk Independent Business Monitoring teams. Issues identified
of bribery and corruption. It builds on our business standards, during oversight and assurance exercises as well as resulting
values and expectations to form a comprehensive and practical from investigations are used to identify areas for specific
approach to compliance and is flexible to the evolving nature of intervention in the markets as well as to continuously improve
our business. the programme.
We have appropriate controls in place such as training, We continually benchmark our ABAC programme against other
awareness raising, strong monitoring around transactions and large multinational companies and use external expertise and
payments to third parties. We plan to continue with pre and internal insights to drive improvements in the programme.
post-transaction ABAC due diligence, increase the capabilities
Formal and informal ‘Speak Up’ channels are available to report
in the business on monitoring, oversight and red flag resolution
misconduct or non-compliance. Allegations of non-compliance
of third parties; review controls and accountabilities of
are reviewed and triaged by the central investigations team and
government officials. We continue to understand and assess
allocated for investigation as appropriate.
our money-laundering risk exposure and mitigate any existing
risk.
Our Code of Conduct, values and expectations, and
commitment to zero tolerance are integral to how we mitigate
this risk. In light of the complexity and geographic breadth of
this risk, we constantly evolve our oversight of activities and
data, reinforce to our workforce clear expectations regarding
acceptable behaviours, and maintain regular communications
between the centre and local markets.
GSK Annual Report 2019 279Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Commercial practices
Risk definition Promotion of approved products seeks to ensure that HCPs
Failure to engage in commercial activities that are consistent globally have access to information they need, that patients and
with the letter and spirit of the law, industry, or the Group’s consumers have access to the information and products they
requirements relating to marketing and communications about need and that products are prescribed, recommended or used
our medicines and associated therapeutic areas; appropriate in a manner that provides the maximum healthcare benefit to
interactions with healthcare professionals (HCPs) and patients; patients and consumers. We are committed to communicating
and legitimate and transparent transfer of value. information related to our approved products in a responsible,
legal and ethical manner.
Risk impact
Failure to manage risks related to commercial practices could Mitigating activities
materially and adversely affect our ability to deliver our strategy Our strategic objectives are designed to ensure we achieve our
and long-term priorities. Failure to comply with applicable laws, purpose of helping people do more, feel better and live longer.
rules and regulations may result in governmental investigation, We continue to strive for new product launches that are
regulatory action and legal proceedings brought against the competitive and resourced effectively. We also strive to have a
Group by governmental and private plaintiffs which could result healthy proportion of the Group’s sales ratio attributable to new
in government sanctions, and criminal and/or financial penalties. product or innovation sales.
Failure to provide accurate and complete information related to
This innovation helps us defray the effect, for example, of
our products may result in incomplete awareness of the risk/
downward price pressure in major markets, declining emerging
benefit profile of our products and possibly suboptimal
market growth, rapidly evolving digital landscape, and negative
treatment of patients and consumers. Any practices that are
foreign exchange impact. Establishing new products that are
found to be misaligned with our values could also result in
priced to balance expectations of patients and consumers,
reputational harm and dilute trust established with external
HCPs, payers, shareholders, and the community enables us to
stakeholders.
maintain a strong global business and remain relevant to the
Context needs of patients and consumers. Our values and behaviours
We continue to evolve our business operations (including provide a guide for how we lead and make decisions. We
acquisitions and joint ventures) to operate on a global basis in constantly strive to do the right thing and deliver quality
an industry that is both highly competitive and highly regulated. products and ensure supply is sustained to meet customer
Our competitors may make significant product innovations needs and demand requirements, seeking to ensure our actions
and technical advances and may intensify price competition. reflect our values, behaviours and the purpose of our company.
In light of this competitive environment, continued development
We have taken action to enhance and improve standards and
of commercially viable new products and the development of
the application of data analytics and e-commerce channels.
additional uses for existing products that reflect insights
We have policies and standards governing commercial
which help ensure those products address the needs of
activities undertaken by us or on our behalf. Training has been
patients/consumers, HCPs, and payers are critical to achieve
implemented to support the evolution of our activities to all
our strategic objectives.
relevant employees. All of these activities we conduct worldwide
As other pharmaceutical, vaccine and consumer companies, must conform to high ethical, regulatory, and industry standards.
we face downward price pressure in major markets, declining Where local standards differ from global standards, the more
emerging market growth, rapidly evolving digital landscape, stringent of the two applies. Where the standards of an acquired
and negative foreign exchange impact. company or joint venture partner differ from our global standards,
we will expediently remediate legacy policies and implement
Developing new Pharmaceutical, Vaccine and Consumer
revisions to gain alignment. We have harmonised policies and
Healthcare products is a costly, lengthy and an uncertain
procedures to guide above-country commercial practice
process. A product candidate may fail at any stage, including
processes as well as clarified applicable standards for
after significant economic and human resources have been
operations in the various markets in which we operate. Each
invested. Our competitors’ products or pricing strategies, or
business has adopted the Internal Control Framework to support
any failure on our part to develop commercially successful
the assessment and management of its risks. Commercial
products, or to develop additional uses for existing products,
practices activities have appropriate monitoring programmes and
could materially and adversely affect our ability to achieve our
oversight from business unit Risk Management and Compliance
strategic objectives.
Boards that manage risks across in-country business activities.
We are committed to the ethical and responsible Where in the past we have fallen below our own or any other
commercialisation of our products to support our purpose regulatory or industry standards, we have sought to improve
to improve the quality of human life by enabling people to do both the framework and culture for our compliance processes.
more, feel better, and live longer. To accomplish this purpose,
we engage the healthcare community in various ways to
provide important information about our medicines.
280 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Commercial practices continued
All promotional materials and activities must be reviewed We allow fair market value payments to be made by GSK to
and approved according to our policies and standards, and expert practitioners to speak about our innovative medicines
conducted in accordance with local laws and regulations, to and vaccines in a limited number of countries during a restricted
seek to ensure that these materials and activities fairly represent time period in a product’s lifecycle. Controls and training ensure
the products or services of the Group. When necessary, we appropriate oversight across the markets. We report payments
have disciplined (up to and including termination) employees to individual HCPs as part of our commitment to transparency
who have engaged in misconduct and claw back remuneration and responsible disclosure.
from senior management in the event of misconduct
Consumer Healthcare has developed a Digital risk plan to
We made changes to our incentive programme for our support implementation of a robust control framework. Actions
Pharmaceutical and Vaccines sales representatives to include development of new written standards, use of tools to
better recognise and reward individual effort. Specifically, increase visibility and control over social media presence, and
in Specialty Care, the capped variable pay element of a sales an increase in management monitoring.
representative’s compensation will be evaluated on the basis
GSK is committed to comply with all applicable sanctions
of individual sales targets. The changes were implemented
laws and regulations, and it has deployed a sanctions
in the US, UK and Canada from July 2019 supported by a
programme designed to enable management of sanctions
comprehensive training, control, and monitoring framework to
risk. The programme, owned by Finance, comprises of various
ensure implementation of the new programme is fully aligned
systems and controls including, but not limited to, policies and
with GSK’s values-based approach to HCP engagement.
procedures, training and awareness, screening, monitoring and
risk reporting.
Privacy
Risk definition Mitigating activities
The failure to collect, secure, use and destroy personal The Chief Compliance Officer is also the chairperson of the
information (PI) in accordance with data privacy laws can lead Privacy Governance Board (PGB), which oversees GSK’s
to harm to individuals and GSK, including fines and operational, overall data privacy operating model. Each business and
financial and reputational risk. function have appointed a Risk Owner who is accountable for
the oversight of privacy risks in that business or functional area.
Risk impact
They are supported by Privacy Leaders within their business
Non-compliance can lead to harm to individuals and GSK.
or function. Additionally, in some countries data privacy laws
It can also damage trust between GSK and individuals,
require a Data Protection Officer (DPO) to be appointed.
communities, business partners and government authorities.
GSK has appointed a single DPO for the European Union,
The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), with other who is represented and supported in specific countries by
privacy legislation following suit, increased the enforcement Country Privacy Advisors. The Chief Compliance Officer is
powers of supervisory authorities, including the ability to impose the Enterprise Risk Owner (ERO). The ERO has appointed
fines and to suspend processing of PI. GDPR and other privacy a delegate risk owner, the Global Privacy Officer (GPO) who
laws also give individuals the right to bring collective legal has accountability on a day-to-day basis for designing and
actions against GSK for failure to comply with data privacy laws. implementing the control framework. The GPO co-leads the
Context cross-functional Privacy Centre of Excellence (CoE), together
Data privacy legislation is diverse with limited harmonisation with the Global Privacy Counsel. They are supported by Privacy
or simplification, despite Europe’s adoption of GDPR. It is Officers and Privacy Counsel for each Region and multiple
challenging for multi-nationals to standardise their approach Country Privacy Advisors (who are familiar with local privacy
to compliance with data privacy laws due to the high-level of regulations).
local variation. Governments are enforcing compliance with GSK has evolved the initial control framework implemented for
data privacy laws more rigorously. The focus on the ethical use GDPR to be a comprehensive privacy control framework based
of PI is growing, over and above compliance with data privacy on global privacy principles common across many local privacy
laws, due to an increase in data volume processed and laws. This global framework is now being deployed in countries
advancements in technology. Individuals are more aware of with robust privacy legislation in place or coming into effect
their rights under data privacy laws. soon to strengthen local risk mitigation measures.
GSK Annual Report 2019 281Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Privacy continued
The Privacy Centre of Excellence in Global Ethics and Through monitoring, we continuously improve our processes,
Compliance is responsible for (i) improving the control such as issue identification, reporting and handling. We have
framework further; (ii) implementing the control framework implemented a legislative scanning process to detect and
outside of the European Economic Area; (iii) remediating certain assess new privacy regulations early allowing us to prepare
existing business activities to ensure compliance with GDPR and mitigate regulatory risk to GSK. The Privacy Centre of
and (iv) deploying a comprehensive training programme to drive Excellence is involved in new business development
greater awareness and accountability for managing PI across opportunities at an early stage to ensure appropriate due
the entire organisation. Key roles of the privacy network at diligence is performed and the right steps are taken when
GSK will be certified with an accredited international privacy onboarding or splitting off a business unit.
association.
Research practices
Risk definition The integrity of our data is essential to success in all stages
Research practices risk is the failure to adequately conduct of the research data lifecycle: design, generation, recording
ethical and sound pre-clinical and clinical research. In addition, and management, analysis, reporting, storage and retrieval.
it is the failure to engage in scientific activities that are Our research data is governed by legislation and regulatory
consistent with the letter and spirit of the law and industry, requirements. Research data and supporting documents are
or the Group’s requirements. It comprises the following sub- core components at various stages of pipeline progression
risks: Non-clinical & laboratory research; Human subject decision-making and form the content of regulatory
research; Data integrity; Care, welfare and treatment of animals; submissions, publications and patent filings. Poor data integrity
Human biological samples management; Data disclosure; can compromise our research efforts and negatively impact
Regulatory filings and engagement; Scientific engagement; company reputation.
and Intellectual property.
There are innate complexities and interdependencies required
Risk impact for regulatory filings, particularly given our global research and
The impacts of the risk include harm to human subjects, development footprint. Continually changing and increasingly
reputational damage, failure to obtain the necessary regulatory stringent submission requirements continue to increase the
approvals for our products, governmental investigation, legal complexity of worldwide product registration. The continued
proceedings brought against the Group by governmental and supply of GSK medicines to patients is dependent on the
private plaintiffs (product liability suits and claims for damages), ongoing compliance and maintenance of these licenses across
loss of revenue due to inadequate patent protection or inability many geographies whose requirements and timelines differ. The
to supply GSK products, and regulatory action such as fines, secure management of the high volume of lifecycle changes to
penalties, or loss of product authorisation. Any of these these licenses and their renewal is critical to enable compliant
consequences could materially and adversely affect our financial supply. Failure to maintain licenses will directly impact patients
results and cause loss of trust from our customers and patients. and company revenue.
Context Scientific engagement, defined as the interaction and exchange
Research relating to animals can raise ethical concerns of information between GSK and external communities to
however, in many cases, research in animals is the only method advance scientific and medical understanding, including the
that can be used to investigate the effects of a potential new appropriate development and use of our products, is an
medicine in a living body other than in humans. Animal research essential part of scientific discourse. Such non-promotional
provides critical information about the causes and mechanisms engagement with external stakeholder groups is vital to GSK’s
of diseases and therefore remains a vital part of our research. purpose and necessary for scientific and medical advance.
We continually seek ways in which we can minimise our use Scientific engagement activities are essential but present legal,
of animals in research whilst complying with regulatory regulatory, and reputational risk if the sharing of data, invited
requirements and reduce the impact on the animals used. media coverage or payments to HCPs have, or are perceived
to have, promotional intent.
Clinical trials in healthy volunteers and patients are used to
assess and demonstrate an investigational product’s efficacy A wide variety of biological materials are used by GSK in
and safety, or further evaluate the product once it has been discovery, research and development phases. Through the
approved for marketing. We also work with human biological Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) and the Nagoya
samples. These samples are fundamental to the discovery, Protocol, the international community has established a global
development and safety monitoring of our products. GSK is framework regulating access to, and use of, genetic resources
committed to ensuring that human biological samples are of non-human origin in R&D.
managed in accordance with relevant laws, regulations and
ethical principles, in a manner that respects the interests of
the sample donors.
282 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Research practices continued
We support the principles of access and benefit sharing to We have a Global Human Biological Samples Management
genetic resources as outlined in the CBD and the Nagoya (HBSM) governance framework in place to oversee the ethical
Protocol, recognising the importance of appropriate, effective and lawful acquisition and management of human biological
and proportionate implementation measures at national and samples. Our HBSM Enterprise Risk Management Team works
regional levels. to minimise the risks related to the acquisition, storage, use,
transfer, and disposal of HBS.
Patent rights are awarded to protect innovation and play an
important role in providing GSK with a competitive advantage It remains an important priority to enhance our data integrity
in the market for a limited period of time. Any loss of patent controls. Data Integrity Committees are in place to provide
protection in a market for GSK’s products developed through oversight and Data Integrity Quality Assurance teams conduct
our R&D, including reducing the term, availability or scope of assessments to provide independent business monitoring of
patent rights, could materially and adversely affect our financial our internal controls for R&D activities.
results in that market. Absence of adequate patent or data
The Regulatory Governance Board serves as the global
exclusivity protection, which could lead to, for example,
regulatory risk management and compliance board, promoting
competition from manufacturers of generic or biosimilar
compliance with regulatory requirements and procedures, and
pharmaceutical products, could limit the opportunity to rely on
oversees Group-wide written standards for cross business
such markets for future sales growth for our products, which
regulatory processes. A significant program is in progress to
could also materially and adversely impact our financial results.
transform regulatory information management systems to
Following expiration of certain intellectual property rights, a replace and modernise information systems cross-enterprise.
generic or biosimilar manufacturer may lawfully produce a
We established an Access and Benefit Sharing Centre of
generic version of a product. Introduction of generic products
Excellence to oversee applicable requirements and enforcement
typically leads to a rapid and dramatic loss of sales and reduces
measures for the acquisition and use of genetic material of
our revenues and margins for our proprietary products.
non-human origin in scope of the Nagoya Protocol.
Mitigating activities
R&D maintains and controls pre-publication procedures to
We have an established Office of Animal Welfare, Ethics and
guard against public disclosure in advance of filing patent
Strategy (OAWES), led by the Chief Veterinary Officer, that
applications. In addition, because loss of patent protection
supports the humane and responsible care of animals, shares
can occur due to lack of data integrity in preparing patent
knowledge and advocates for the application of non-animal
application data and information, legal experts collaborate with
alternatives. The OAWES provides a framework of animal
R&D to support the review process for new patent applications.
welfare governance, promotes application of 3Rs (replacement,
refinement and reduction of animals in research), conducts The Research practices risk is overseen by an Enterprise
quality assessments, manages a program of external animal framework that seeks to ensure strengthened governance
diligence, and develops and deploys strategies on across the R&D businesses in Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and
reproducibility and translatability. Consumer Healthcare.
The Chief Medical Officer oversees the following enterprise Under the leadership of the Research Practices Enterprise
Medical Governance Boards: Risk Owner, management of the risk takes a pragmatic
approach to information sharing, streamlining risk identification
– The Human Subject Research Board is in place to provide
and escalation, while ensuring ownership stays with the
oversight for the human subject research sponsored and
business.
supported by us to ensure it conforms to ethical, medical
and scientific standards
– The Data Disclosure Board provides oversight for disclosure
of our sponsored and supported human subject research.
We make information available on our clinical studies,
including summaries of the results – whether positive or
negative. We were the first company to publish clinical
study reports that form the basis of submissions to regulatory
agencies and we have publicly posted more than 2,500
clinical study reports in addition to more than 6,000 study
result summaries
– Specific accountability and authorisation for scientific
engagement is overseen by the Scientific Engagement and
Promotional Practices Board. This Board is responsible for
oversight of applicable policies and seeking to ensure the
highest level of integrity and continuous development of
scientific engagement
GSK Annual Report 2019 283Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Third party oversight (TPO)
Risk definition The enterprise-wide TPO programme takes an enterprise-wide
There is a risk that our third parties fail to meet their contractual, view of third party related risks to ensure compliance with our
regulatory or ethical obligations resulting in significant ABAC policies and additional risks such as Labour Rights,
operational, reputational, legal and financial risk for GSK Health and safety and Human safety information. It forms a
(and in some cases our employees directly). comprehensive and practical approach to third party oversight
that is flexible to the evolving nature of our business and the
Put simply, there is a risk that third parties fail to deliver the
type of engagement being managed. The programme is
goods and services we expect or fail to deliver them in a legal
designed and governed through the Global Ethics and
and compliant way.
Compliance organisation and has been globally deployed.
Risk impact The operational service assisting the business in completion
Failure to adequately manage third party relationships could of assessments transitioned to Global Procurement in early
result in business disruption and exposure to risks ranging 2019 to bring it closer to other core procurement processes.
from sub-optimal contractual terms and conditions, to severe TPO has strengthened risk assessment, contractual terms and
business and legal sanctions and/or significant reputational due diligence efforts on third parties and improved the overall
damage. Any of these consequences could materially and management of our third party risks through the lifecycle of
adversely affect our business operations and financial results. the third party engagement.
Context We have a dedicated TPO team responsible for the
Third parties are critical to our business delivery and are an implementation and evolution of the programme in response
integral part of the solution to meeting our business objectives. to developments in the internal and external environment.
We rely on third parties, including suppliers, advisors, Programme governance is provided through Enterprise Risk
distributors, individual contractors, licensees, and other Management overseen by the ABAC and TPO Governance
pharmaceutical and biotechnology collaboration partners for Board which includes representation from key functional areas
discovery, manufacture, and marketing of our products and and the business. This joint board was created in 2019 to
for supporting other important business processes. ensure strategic focus across the two principle risk areas as
These business relationships present a material risk. For they have considerable co-dependency. An example of this is
example, we share critical and sensitive information such as the new ABAC Conflict of Interest tool which better protects
marketing plans, clinical data, and employee data with specific GSK when working with third parties. Global Ethics and
third parties who are conducting the relevant outsourced Compliance are working with the Global Procurement, Legal
business activities. Inadequate protection or misuse of this and Tech organisations to plan further simplifications in order
information by third parties could have significant business to maintain oversight and reduce complexity for the business.
impact. Similarly, we use distributors and agents in a range of Each business leadership team retains ultimate accountability
activities such as promotion and tendering which have inherent for managing third party interactions and risks. When working
risks such as inappropriate promotion or corruption. Insufficient with third parties, our employees are expected to manage
internal compliance and controls by the distributors could affect external interactions and commitments responsibly. This
our reputation. These risks are further increased by the expectation is embedded in our values and Code of Conduct.
complexities of working with large numbers of third parties It is our responsibility that all activities carried out on our behalf
across a diverse geographical spread. are performed safely and in compliance with applicable laws
Mitigating activities and our values, expectations, standards and Code of Conduct
To guide and enforce our global principles for interactions with (See ABAC report above).
third parties we have a global policy framework applicable to Our programme is complemented with independent oversight
buying goods and services, managing our external spend, and assurance undertaken by the Audit & Assurance and
paying and working with our third parties. This policy framework Independent Business Monitoring teams. We review the TPO
applies to all employees and complementary workers programme against other large multinational companies and use
worldwide. external expertise and internal insights to drive improvements in
the programme.
284 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Environment, health and safety & sustainability (EHS&S)
Risk definition Mitigating activities
Failure in management of: The Corporate Executive Team (CET) is responsible for EHS&S
governance and risk oversight and ensures there is an effective
– execution of hazardous activities;
control framework in place and in use to manage the risks,
– GSK’s physical assets and infrastructure; impacts and legal compliance issues that relate to EHS&S
– handling and processing of hazardous chemicals and across each of our businesses. This includes assigning
biological agents; responsibility to senior managers for providing and maintaining
those controls and ensuring that tiered monitoring and
– control of releases of substances harmful to the environment
governance processes are in place within their businesses.
in both the short and long term; leading to incidents which
Individual managers seek to ensure that the EHS&S control
could disrupt our R&D and Supply activities, harm employees,
framework is effective and well implemented in their respective
harm the communities we operate in and harm the
business area and that it is fully compliant with all applicable
environment and its longer-term sustainability.
laws and regulations, adequately resourced, maintained,
Risk impact communicated, and monitored. Additionally, each employee
Failure to manage EHS&S risks could lead to significant harm to is personally responsible for ensuring that all applicable local
people, the environment and communities in which we operate, standard operating procedures are followed by them and
fines, failure to meet stakeholder expectations and regulatory expected to take responsibility for EHS&S matters.
requirements, litigation or regulatory action, and damage to the
Our risk-based, proactive approach is articulated in our Global
Group’s reputation, which could materially and adversely affect
EHS&S policy and detailed in our global EHS&S standards
our financial results.
against which we audit all our operations to ensure compliance.
Context We ensure hazards are appropriately controlled through safe
GSK is subject to health, safety and environmental laws of design of facilities, plant and equipment and by following
various jurisdictions. These laws impose duties to protect rigorous procedures that help us provide effective barriers to
people, the environment, and the communities in which we protect employees’ health and well-being.
operate, as well as potential obligations to remediate
Control of antibiotic emissions from manufacturing effluents,
contaminated sites. Overall, our control framework for managing
is an increasing concern for a number of stakeholders (forming
EHS&S risk is effective and our frequency of serious events
part of their wider concern around AMR – antimicrobial
is similar to peers and lower than for high hazard industries
resistance). To address this, we are ensuring that all our own
e.g. petrochemicals.
manufacturing facilities and those of our suppliers are following
good operational practice and meeting emission limits as
defined by the AMR Alliance Manufacturing Framework.
During the year we made an assessment of our business
resilience to climate change against the Task Force on Climate-
related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) framework guidelines. We
did not identify any fundamental risks to our overall business.
GSK Annual Report 2019 285Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Information security
Risk definition Mitigating activities
The risk that unauthorised disclosure, theft, unavailability or We have a global information security policy and accompanying
corruption of GSK’s information or key information systems information technology standards and processes that are
may lead to harm to our patients, workforce and customers, supported through a dedicated team and programme of activity.
disruption to our business and/or loss of commercial or The GSK Technology, Security, and Risk function provides
strategic advantage, damage to our reputation or regulatory strategy, direction, and oversight, including active monitoring of
sanction. cybersecurity, while enhancing our global information security
capabilities, through an ongoing programme of investment.
Risk impact
The following mitigation activities represent the significant
Failure to adequately protect critical and sensitive systems
investments we have made in the past year and will continue
and information may result in loss of commercial or strategic
to improve in the coming year:
advantage and could materially affect our ongoing business
operations, such as scientific research, clinical trials and – Engaging external expertise and next generation tools to fully
manufacturing and supply chain activities. map and inventory IT and OT environment to enable high
confidence of a real time snapshot of all connected devices
Further, inadequately applying controls that would be expected
within the network and improve our patching timeframe on
of GSK may result in regulatory fines or present a reputational
some systems from months to weeks/days.
risk to the organisation.
– A site technology refresh plan has been approved and
Context
underway for the GSK’s most substantial sites.
We rely on critical and sensitive systems and data, such as
corporate strategic plans, intellectual property, manufacturing – A significant upgrade of tools is funded and progressing
systems and trade secrets. There is the potential that our focused on key control areas.
computer systems or information may be exposed to misuse
– GSK’s core information technology organisation, information
or unauthorised disclosure.
security organisation, and business units are working together
GSK operates a highly ‘connected’ information network to validate critical apps and data stores to ensure we have
that exposes our confidential research and development, adequate backup and restore capabilities.
manufacturing, commercial, workforce and financial data to
– A new unified security standard has been approved across all
the risk of external attacks. GSK’s Digital and Data Analytics
sites and an operational technology security office has been
Strategy also substantially increases the businesses
established under the CISO. Tooling in IT is being extended
dependency on digital assets and distributed data, while
with each deployment in the OT programme.
increasing the number of assets potentially impacted by a
cyberattack. As threats evolve, we cannot provide broad – Deployment of new tools and a prioritised deployment plan
assurances that the significant efforts we deliver in the for identity and access management is fully resourced and is
protection and monitoring of our systems and information will moving at speed addressing financial and manufacturing
always be successful in preventing compromise or disruption. systems as priorities for 2019 and will continue for the
Cybersecurity losses increasingly involve highly-resourced balance of systems over the coming years.
and organised threat actors such as nation-states and online – A plan for the enhancement of third-party practices to
criminal collectives targeting GSK’s large and complex automate the visibility of security of critical vendors has been
information technology (IT) and operational technology (OT) established and is in process.
footprint, as well as the systems of our supply chain partners
– A team dedicated solely to securing our systems and data
(including outsourced operations). This means that our systems
during our expansion in growth markets (e.g. China) has been
and information have been and will continue to be the target of
formed and is being overseen by the CISO.
cyberattacks. Additionally, extensive use of third parties to store
and process our data increases GSK’s reliance on suppliers to
operate effectively. This dependence increases the complexity
around security controls and practices. It also reduces GSK’s
ability to monitor controls and effectively investigate and
respond to incidents involving GSK information or systems.
While GSK stands at the ready to address cybersecurity
incidents and risks as they occur, in the past year GSK has not
experienced a material cybersecurity incident that would have
resulted in substantial harm to GSK (e.g., injury to reputation,
financial performance, and customer and vendor relationships).
286 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Supply continuity
Risk definition Mitigating activities
Failure to deliver a continuous supply of compliant finished The supply chain model adopted in Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines
product; inability to respond effectively to a crisis incident in a and Consumer Healthcare business units is designed to ensure
timely manner to recover and sustain critical operations. the supply, quality and security of our products globally, as far
as possible.
Risk impact
We recognise that failure to supply our products can adversely Supply Chain Governance Committees within each business
impact consumers and patients who rely on them. A material unit are used to closely monitor the inventory status and delivery
interruption of supply or exclusion from healthcare programmes of our products, with the aim of ensuring that customers have
could expose us to litigation or regulatory action and financial the products they need. Improved links between commercial
penalties that could adversely affect the Group’s financial forecasting and manufacturing made possible by our core
results. The Group’s international operations, and those of commercial cycle should, over time, reduce the risk associated
its partners, expose our workforce, facilities, operations and with demand fluctuations and any impact on our ability to supply
information technology to potential disruption from natural or the cost of write-offs where products exceed their expiry
events (e.g. storm, earthquake), man-made events (e.g. trading date. Each node of the supply chain is also periodically
barriers imposed at short notice, civil/political unrest, terrorism), reviewed to ensure adequate safety stock, while balancing
and global emergencies (e.g. coronavirus outbreak, Ebola working capital in our end-to-end supply chain. Particular
outbreak, flu pandemic). It is important that we have robust attention is placed on mitigating supply risks associated with
crisis management and recovery plans in place to manage medically critical and high-revenue products.
such events.
We routinely monitor the compliance of manufacturing external
Context suppliers and service providers to identify and manage risks in
Our supply chain operations are subject to review and approval our supply base. Where practical, we minimise our dependence
by various regulatory agencies that effectively provide our on single sources of supply for critical items. Where alternative
license to operate. Failure by our manufacturing and distribution sourcing arrangements are not possible for certain materials,
facilities or by suppliers of key services and materials could lead our inventory strategy aims to limit the impact and ultimately
to litigation or regulatory action such as product recalls and protect the supply chain from unanticipated disruption.
seizures, interruption of supply, delays in the approval of new
We continue to implement anti-counterfeit systems such as
products, and suspension of manufacturing operations pending
product serialisation in accordance with new and emerging
resolution of manufacturing or logistics issues.
supply chain requirements around the world such as the EU
We rely on materials and services provided by third party Falsified Medicines Regulation.
suppliers to make our products, including active pharmaceutical
A corporate policy requires each business and functional area
ingredients, antigens, intermediates, commodities, and
head to ensure effective crisis management and business
components for the development, manufacture and packaging
continuity plans are in place that include authorised response
of Pharmaceutical, Vaccine and Consumer Healthcare
and recovery strategies, key areas of responsibility and clear
products. Some of the third-party services procured, such
communication routes, before any business disruption occurs.
as services provided by contract manufacturing and clinical
Corporate Security supports the business by: coordinating
research organisations to support development of key products,
crisis management and business continuity training; facilitating
are important to ensure continuous operation of our business.
simulation exercises; assessing our preparedness and recovery
Although we undertake risk mitigation, we recognise that certain capability; and providing assurance oversight of our central
events could nevertheless still result in delays or service repository of plans supporting our critical business processes.
interruptions. We use effective crisis management and business
Each business unit performs risk oversight through their
continuity planning to provide for the health and safety of our
respective Risk Management and Compliance Board (RMCB)
people and to minimise impact to us, by maintaining functional
to assure adequate risk mitigation including identifying new and
operations following a natural or man-made disaster, or a public
emerging threats. For example, we have taken a coordinated
health emergency.
approach to evaluate and manage the implications for our
business arising from Brexit.
These activities help ensure an appropriate level of readiness
and response capability is maintained. We also develop and
maintain partnerships with external bodies like the Business
Continuity Institute and the UN International Strategy for
Disaster Risk Reduction, which helps improve our business
continuity initiatives in disaster-prone areas and supports the
development of community resilience to disasters.
GSK Annual Report 2019 287Shareholder information
Share capital and control
Details of our issued share capital and the number of shares Interests in voting rights
held in Treasury as at 31 December 2019 can be found in Other than as stated below, as far as we are aware, there are
Note 36 to the financial statements, ‘Share capital and share no persons with significant direct or indirect holdings in the
premium account’. company. Information provided to the company pursuant to
the Financial Conduct Authority’s Disclosure Guidance and
Our Ordinary Shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange
Transparency Rules (DTR 5) is published on a Regulatory
and are also quoted on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE)
Information Service and on the company’s website,
in the form of American Depositary Shares (ADS). Each ADS
www.gsk.com.
represents two Ordinary Shares. For details of listed debt and
where it is listed refer to Note 29 to the financial statements, The company has received notifications in accordance with
‘Net debt’. DTR 5 of the following notifiable interests in the voting rights in
the company’s issued share capital:
Holders of Ordinary Shares and ADS are entitled to receive
dividends (when declared), the company’s Annual Report, 31 December 2019 24 February 2020
to attend and speak at general meetings of the company, Percentage Percentage
to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights. No. of of total voting No. of of total voting
voting rights(1) rights(2) voting rights rights(2)
There are no restrictions on the transfer, or limitations on the BlackRock, Inc 332,238,289 6.40% 332,238,289 6.40%
holding, of Ordinary Shares and ADS and no requirements (1) C omprising an indirect interest in 329,124,508 Ordinary Shares and a
to obtain approval prior to any transfers. No Ordinary Shares holding of 3,113,781 Qualifying Financial Instruments (CFD).
or ADS carry any special rights with regard to control of the (2) P ercentage of total voting rights at the date of notification to the company.
company and there are no restrictions on voting rights. Major
The company has not acquired or disposed of any interests
shareholders have the same voting rights per share as all other
in its own shares during the period under review, with the
shareholders. There are no known arrangements under which
exception of those transferred from Treasury to satisfy awards
financial rights are held by a person other than the holder of
under the Group’s employee share plans.
the shares and no known agreements on restrictions on share
transfers or on voting rights. Share buy-back programme
The Board has been authorised to issue and allot Ordinary
Shares acquired through the Group’s employee share plans
Shares under Article 9 of the company’s Articles of Association.
rank equally with the other shares in issue and have no special
The power under Article 9 and the authority for the company to
rights. The trustees of our Employee Share Ownership Plan
make purchases of its own shares are subject to shareholder
trusts have waived their rights to dividends on shares held by
authorities which are sought on an annual basis at our Annual
those trusts.
General Meeting (AGM). Any shares purchased by the
Exchange controls and other limitations affecting security company may be cancelled or held as Treasury shares or
holders used for satisfying share options and grants under the Group's
Other than certain economic sanctions, which may be in employee share plans.
force from time to time, there are currently no applicable laws,
Our programme covers purchases of shares for cancellation
decrees or regulations in force in the UK restricting the import
or to be held as Treasury shares, in accordance with the
or export of capital or restricting the remittance of dividends or
authority renewed by shareholders at the AGM in May 2019,
other payments to holders of the company’s shares who are
when the company was authorised to purchase a maximum
non-residents of the UK. Similarly, other than certain economic
of just under 497 million shares. Details of shares purchased,
sanctions which may be in force from time to time, there are no
those cancelled, those held as Treasury shares and those
limitations relating only to non-residents of the UK under English
subsequently transferred from Treasury to satisfy awards
law or the company’s Articles of Association on the right to be a
under the Group’s employee share plans are disclosed in
holder of, and to vote in respect of, the company’s shares.
Note 36 to the financial statements, ‘Share capital and share
premium account’.
In determining specific share repurchase levels, the company
considers the development of free cash flow during the year.
No shares have been purchased since 2014.
The company confirms that it does not currently intend to make
any market purchases in 2020. The company will review the
potential for future share buy-backs in line with its usual annual
cycle and subject to return and ratings criteria.
288 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Shareholder information continued
Share capital and control continued
Market capitalisation UK£ US$
The market capitalisation, based on shares in issue excluding
18 75
Treasury shares, of GSK at 31 December 2019 was £88.76
17 70
billion. At that date, GSK was the 5th largest company by
16 65
market capitalisation in the FTSE index.
15 60
Share price
2019 2018 2017 14 55
£ £ £
13 50
At 1 January 14.91 13.23 15.62
At 31 December 17.79 14.91 13.23 12 45
Increase/(decrease) 19.3% 12.7% (15.3)% 11 40
High during the year 18.19 16.22 17.22 10 35
Low during the year 14.36 12.43 12.76 09 30
The table above sets out the middle market closing prices. 31/12/16 31/12/17 31/12/18 31/12/19
The company’s share price increased by 19.3% in 2019. UK share price (UK£) US ADS price (US$)
This compares with an increase in the FTSE 100 index of
12.1% during the year. The middle market closing share price on
24 February 2020 was £16.30.
Nature of trading market
The following tables set out, for the periods indicated, the high and low middle market closing prices in pence for the company’s
shares on the London Stock Exchange, and the high and low closing prices in US dollars for the company’s ADS on the NYSE.
Ordinary Shares ADS
Pence per share US dollars per share
High Low High Low
February 2020* 1815 1630 47.12 41.92
January 2020 1846 1762 47.89 46.21
December 2019 1819 1707 47.32 44.65
November 2019 1762 1697 45.48 43.85
October 2019 1782 1636 45.80 41.19
September 2019 1745 1627 42.68 40.60
Quarter ended 31 December 2019 1819 1636 47.32 41.19
Quarter ended 30 September 2019 1745 1590 42.68 39.68
Quarter ended 30 June 2019 1607 1502 41.88 38.64
Quarter ended 31 March 2019 1597 1436 41.87 37.83
Quarter ended 31 December 2018 1622 1418 41.87 37.07
Quarter ended 30 September 2018 1619 1484 41.87 38.99
Quarter ended 30 June 2018 1580 1378 41.94 38.85
Quarter ended 31 March 2018 1397 1243 35.49 39.38
Year ended 31 December 2018 1622 1243 41.94 35.49
Year ended 31 December 2017 1722 1276 44.37 34.66
Year ended 31 December 2016 1723 1345 45.49 37.39
Year ended 31 December 2015 1642 1238 48.81 37.56
Year ended 31 December 2014 1691 1324 56.66 41.30
Year ended 31 December 2013 1782 1359 53.68 43.93
* t o 24 February 2020
GSK Annual Report 2019 289Shareholder information continued
Analysis of shareholdings at 31 December 2019
Number of % of total % of total Number of
accounts accounts shares shares
Holding of shares
Up to 1,000 75,192 71.08 0.48 25,897,162
1,001 to 5,000 23,822 22.52 0.95 51,217,693
5,001 to 100,000 5,552 5.25 1.56 84,013,513
100,001 to 1,000,000 850 0.80 5.43 292,068,276
Over 1,000,000 367 0.35 91.58 4,929,905,587
105,783 100.00 100.00 5,383,102,231
Held by
Nominee companies 4,647 4.39 62.38 3,358,213,237
Investment and trust companies 23 0.02 0.02 976,209
Insurance companies 3 0.00 0.00 768
Individuals and other corporate bodies 101,107 95.58 13.07 703,834,191
Guaranty Nominees Limited 2 0.00 17.21 926,571,876
Held as Treasury shares by GlaxoSmithKline 1 0.00 7.31 393,505,950
Effective 29 July 2019, J.P. Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. was appointed as successor Depositary for the company’s American
Depository Receipt (ADR) programme. The company’s ADS are listed on the NYSE. Ordinary Shares representing the company’s
ADR programme, which is managed by the Depositary, are registered in the name of Guaranty Nominees Limited. At 24 February
2020, Guaranty Nominees Limited held 949,040,388 Ordinary Shares representing 18.92% of the issued share capital (excluding
Treasury shares) at that date.
At 24 February 2020, the number of holders of Ordinary Shares in the US was 951 with holdings of 955,215 Ordinary Shares, and
the number of registered holders of ADS was 20,032 with holdings of 474,520,194 ADS. Certain of these Ordinary Shares and
ADS were held by brokers or other nominees. As a result, the number of holders of record or registered holders in the US is not
representative of the number of beneficial holders or of the residence of beneficial holders.
Dividends
The company pays dividends quarterly and continues to return The Board intends to maintain the dividend for 2020 at the
cash to shareholders through its dividend policy. Dividends current level of 80p per share, subject to any material change
remain an essential component of total shareholder return and in the external environment or performance expectations. Over
GSK recognises the importance of dividends to shareholders. time, as free cash flow strengthens, it intends to build free cash
The company aims to distribute regular dividend payments that flow cover of the annual dividend to a target range of 1.25-
will be determined primarily with reference to the free cash flow 1.50x, before returning the dividend to growth. Details of the
generated by the business after funding the investment dividends declared, the amounts and the payment dates are
necessary to support the Group’s future growth. given in Note 16 to the financial statements, ‘Dividends’.
Dividends per share 2020 Dividend calendar
The table below sets out the dividend per share and per ADS Ex-dividend
for the last five years. The dividend per ADS is translated into Quarter date Record date Payment date
Q4 2019 20 February 2020 21 February 2020 9 April 2020
US dollars at applicable exchange rates.
Q1 2020 14 May 2020 15 May 2020 9 July 2020
Year Dividend pence US$ Q2 2020 13 August 2020 14 August 2020 8 October 2020
2019 80 –1 Q3 2020 12 November 2020 13 November 2020 14 January 2021
2018 80 2.08 Q4 2020 18 February 2021 19 February 2021 8 April 2021
2017 80 2.16
2016 80 2.00
2015 Special* 20 0.57
2015 80 2.37
1 The Q4 2019 ordinary dividend receivable by ADS holders will be calculated based on
the exchange rate on 9 April 2020. An annual fee of $0.03 per ADS (or $0.0075 per
ADS per quarter) will be charged by the Depository. The cumulative dividend receivable
by ADS holders for Q1, Q2 and Q3 2019 was $1.44.
* T he 2015 special dividend related to the return of part of the net cash proceeds from
the Novartis transaction completed in March 2015. This was paid with the fourth
quarter ordinary dividend for 2015.
290 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Shareholder information continued
Financial calendar 2020
Results announcements
Event Date
Results announcements are issued to the London Stock
Quarter 1 Results announcement April 2020
Exchange and are available on its news service. They are also
Annual General Meeting May 2020
sent to the US Securities and Exchange Commission and the
Quarter 2 Results announcement July 2020
NYSE, issued to the media and made available on our website.
Quarter 3 Results announcement October 2020
Preliminary/Quarter 4 Results announcement February 2021 Financial reports
Annual Report publication February/March 2021 The company publishes an Annual Report which is made
Annual Report distribution March 2021 available on our website from the date of publication.
Shareholders may elect to receive notification by email
Information about the company, including the share and ADS
of the publication of Annual Reports by registering on
price, is available on our website at www.gsk.com. Information
www.shareview.co.uk, and may also elect to receive a
made available on the website does not constitute part of this
printed copy of the Annual Report by contacting our registrar,
Annual Report.
Equiniti Limited.
Copies of previous Annual Reports are available on our website.
Printed copies can also be obtained from our registrar (see
page 294 for the contact details).
Annual General Meeting 2020
Our Annual General Meeting (AGM) will be held at 2.30pm ADS holders wishing to attend the meeting should contact
(UK time) on Wednesday, 6 May 2020 at Sofitel London the Depositary, J.P. Morgan Chase Bank N.A., to request a
Heathrow, Terminal 5, London Heathrow Airport, TW6 2GD. proxy appointment (see page 295 for the contact details).
This will enable them to attend and vote on the business to
The AGM is the company’s principal forum for communication
be transacted. ADS holders are reminded that if they do not
with private shareholders. In addition to the formal business,
instruct the Depositary as to the way in which the shares
there will be a presentation by the CEO on the performance
represented by their ADS should be voted by completing
of the Group and its future development. There will be an
and returning the voting card provided by the Depositary,
opportunity for questions to be asked of the Board. Chairs of
their shares will not be voted.
the Board’s Committees and the Workforce Engagement
Director will take questions relating to their roles. Documents on display
Investors holding shares through a nominee service should The Articles of Association of the company and Directors’
arrange with that nominee service to be appointed as a proxy service contracts or, where applicable, letters of appointment
in respect of their shareholding in order to attend and vote at between Directors and the company or any of its subsidiaries
the meeting. (and any side letters relating to severance terms and pension
arrangements) are available for inspection at the company’s
registered office and will be made available for inspection at
the AGM.
GSK Annual Report 2019 291Shareholder information continued
Tax information for shareholders
A summary of certain UK tax and US federal income tax Corporation taxpayers may be entitled to an indexation
consequences for holders of shares and ADS who are citizens allowance which applies to reduce capital gains to the extent
of the UK or the US is set out below. It is not a complete that such gains arise due to inflation. Indexation allowance may
analysis of all the possible tax consequences of the purchase, reduce a chargeable gain but will not create an allowable loss.
ownership or sale of these securities. It is intended only as a For assets acquired on or before 1 January 2018, legislation in
general guide. Holders are advised to consult their advisers with the Finance Act 2018 freezes the level of indexation allowance
respect to the tax consequences of the purchase, ownership or that is given in calculating a company’s chargeable gains at the
sale of their shares or ADS and the consequences under state value that would apply to the disposal of an asset in December
and local tax laws in the US and the implications of the current 2017. For assets acquired from 1 January 2018 onwards,
UK/US tax conventions. legislation in the Finance Act 2018 removes any indexation
allowance on disposal.
US holders of ADS generally will be treated as the owners of
the underlying shares for the purposes of the current US/UK Inheritance tax
double taxation conventions relating to income and gains Individual (UK-domiciled or otherwise) shareholders may be
(Income Tax Convention), estate and gift taxes (Estate and Gift liable to UK inheritance tax on the transfer of shares or ADS.
Tax Convention), and for the purposes of the Internal Revenue Tax may be charged on the amount by which the value of the
Code of 1986, as amended. shareholder’s estate is reduced as a result of any transfer by
way of lifetime gift or other disposal at less than full market
UK shareholders
value. In the case of a bequest on death, tax may be charged on
This summary only applies to a UK resident shareholder that
the value of the shares at the date of the shareholder’s death.
holds shares as capital assets.
If such a gift or other disposal were subject to both UK
Taxation of dividends inheritance tax and US estate or gift tax, the Estate and Gift Tax
For the UK years from 2019/20 UK resident individuals are Convention would generally provide for tax paid in the US to be
entitled to a dividend tax allowance of up to £2,000, so that the credited against tax payable in the UK.
first £2,000 of dividends received in a tax year will be free of
Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax
tax. Dividends in excess of this allowance will be taxed at 7.5%
UK stamp duty and/or stamp duty reserve tax (SDRT) will,
for basic rate taxpayers, 32.5% for higher rate taxpayers and
subject to certain exemptions, be payable on the transfer of
38.1% for additional rate taxpayers.
shares at a rate of 0.5% (rounded up to the nearest £5 in
UK resident shareholders that are corporation taxpayers should the case of stamp duty) of the consideration for the transfer.
note that dividends payable on ordinary shares are generally Notwithstanding this, provided that an instrument is executed
entitled to exemption from corporation tax. in pursuance of the agreement that gave rise to the charge to
SDRT and that instrument is stamped within six years of the
Taxation of capital gains
agreement (including being stamped as exempt) any SDRT
UK resident shareholders may be liable for UK tax on gains on
charge should be cancelled and any SDRT which has already
the disposal of shares or ADS.
been paid will be repaid.
For disposals by individuals in the 2019/20 UK tax year, a
taxable capital gain accruing on a disposal of shares or ADS US shareholders
will be taxed at 10% for basic rate taxpayers, or 20% if, after This summary only applies to a shareholder (who is a citizen or
all allowable deductions, the individual’s taxable income for resident of the US or a domestic corporation or a person that
the year exceeds the basic rate income tax limit. Note this is is otherwise subject to US federal income tax on a net income
following the use of any exemptions available to the individual basis in respect of the shares or ADS) that holds shares or ADS
taxpayer such as the annual exempt amount. as capital assets, is not resident in the UK for UK tax purposes
and does not hold shares for the purposes of a trade, profession
or vocation that is carried on in the UK through a branch or
agency.
The summary also does not address the tax treatment of
holders that are subject to special tax rules, such as banks,
tax-exempt entities, insurance companies, dealers in securities
or currencies, persons that hold shares or ADS as part of an
integrated investment (including a ‘straddle’) comprised of a
share or ADS and one or more other positions, and persons that
own (directly or indirectly) 10% or more of the company’s stock
(by vote or value), nor does it address tax treatment that may be
applicable as a result of international income tax treaties.
292 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Shareholder information continued
Tax information for shareholders continued
Taxation of dividends Taxation of capital gains
The gross amount of dividends received is treated as foreign Generally, US holders will not be subject to UK capital gains
source dividend income for US tax purposes. It is not eligible for tax, but will be subject to US tax on capital gains realised on
the dividend received deduction allowed to US corporations. the sale or other disposal of shares or ADS. Such gains will be
Dividends on ADS are payable in US dollars; dividends on long-term capital gains (subject to reduced rates of taxation for
Ordinary Shares are payable in Sterling. Dividends paid in individual holders) if the shares or ADS were held for more than
Sterling will be included in income in the US dollar amount one year, from the date the shares were vested/released.
calculated by reference to the exchange rate on the day the Short-term capital gains can be subject to taxation of rates of
dividends are received by the holder. Subject to certain up to 40.8%, whereas long-term capital gains may be subject to
exceptions for short-term or hedged positions, an individual rates of up to 23.8%. State and local tax rates on capital gains
eligible US holder will be subject to US taxation at a maximum may also apply.
federal rate of 23.8% plus applicable state and local tax in
Information reporting and backup withholding
respect of qualified dividends. A qualified dividend as defined
Dividends and payments of the proceeds on a sale of shares or
by the US Internal Revenue Service (IRS) is a dividend that
ADS, paid within the US or through certain US-related financial
meets the following criteria:
intermediaries, are subject to information reporting and may
1. M ust be issued by a US corporation, a corporation be subject to backup withholding unless the US holder is a
incorporated in a US possession, or a corporation that is corporation or other exempt recipient or provides a taxpayer
eligible for the benefits of a comprehensive income tax treaty identification number and certifies that no loss of exemption
deemed satisfactory, as published by the IRS. has occurred. Non-US holders generally are not subject to
2. T he dividends are not listed with the IRS as dividends that do information reporting or backup withholding, but may be
not qualify. required to provide a certification of their non-US status in
connection with payments received. Any amounts withheld will
3. T he required dividend holding period has been met. The
be allowed as a refund or credit against a holder’s US federal
shares must have been owned by you for more than 60 days
income tax liability provided the required information is furnished
of the ‘holding period’ – which is defined as the 121-day
to the IRS.
period that begins 60 days before the ex-dividend date, or
the day in which the stock trades without the dividend priced Estate and gift taxes
in. For example, if a stock’s ex-dividend date is 1 October, Under the Estate and Gift Tax Convention, a US shareholder
the shares must be held for more than 60 days in the period is not generally subject to UK inheritance tax. However, a US
between 2 August and 30 November of that year in order to capital shareholder may be subject to US Estate and Gift Tax.
count as a qualified dividend.
Stamp duty
Dividends that are not qualified are subject to taxation at the
UK stamp duty and/or SDRT will, subject to certain exemptions,
US federal graduated tax rates, at a maximum rate of 40.8%.
be payable on any transfer of shares to the ADS custodian or
Some types of dividends are automatically excluded from being
depository at a rate of 1.5% of the amount of any consideration
qualified dividends, even if they meet the other requirements.
provided (if transferred on sale), or their value (if transferred for
These include (but are not limited to):
no consideration).
1. Capital gains distributions
However, no stamp duty or SDRT should be payable on the
2. Dividends on bank deposits transfer of, or agreement to transfer, an ADS.
3. D ividends held by a corporation in an Employee Stock
Ownership Plan (ESOP)
4. Dividends paid by tax-exempt corporations
US state and local tax rates on qualified and non-qualified
dividends may vary and would be assessed in addition to the
federal tax rates communicated above.
GSK Annual Report 2019 293Other statutory disclosures
Shareholder services and contacts
Registrar
The company’s registrar is:
Equiniti Limited
Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, BN99 6DA
www.shareview.co.uk
Tel: 0371 384 2991 (in the UK)*
Tel: +44 (0)121 415 7067 (outside the UK)
Equiniti provides a range of services for shareholders:
Service What it offers How to participate
Dividend Reinvestment Plan As an alternative to receiving cash dividends you may choose A DRIP election form can be downloaded
(DRIP) to reinvest your dividends to buy more GSK shares. from www.shareview.co.uk or requested by
contacting Equiniti.
Dividend payment direct to your bank From April 2020, GSK will cease paying dividends via cheque. A dividend bank mandate form can be
account (Bank Mandate) All dividends will be paid directly into your bank or building downloaded from www.shareview.co.uk
society account. To receive your cash dividends, you must or requested by contacting Equiniti.
provide Equiniti with your bank or building society account
details. This is a quicker and more secure method of payment
and avoids the risk of cheques going astray.
Dividend payment direct to bank From April 2020, GSK will cease paying dividends via cheque. For more details on this service and the costs
account for overseas shareholders Instead, Equiniti can convert your dividend into your local involved please contact Equiniti.
currency and send it direct to your local bank account. This
service is available in over 100 countries worldwide.
Electronic communications Shareholders may elect to receive electronic notifications Please register at www.shareview.co.uk
of company communications including our Annual Report,
dividend payments, dividend confirmations and the availability of
online voting for all general meetings. Each time GSK mails out
hard copy shareholder documents you will receive an email
containing a link to the document or relevant website.
Shareview portfolio service This enables you to create a free online portfolio to view your Please register at www.shareview.co.uk
share balance and movements, update your address and
dividend payment instructions and register your votes for
our general meetings.
Deduplication of publications or mailings If you receive duplicate copies of mailings, you may have more Please contact Equiniti.
than one account. Please contact Equiniti and they will arrange
for your accounts to be merged into one for your convenience
and to avoid waste and unnecessary costs.
Share dealing service† Shareholders may trade shares, either held in certificated For online transactions, please log on to:
(please note that market trading hours form or held in our Corporate Sponsored Nominee, online, by www.shareview.co.uk/dealing.
are from 8.00am to 4.30pm UK time, telephone or via postal dealing service provided by Equiniti For telephone transactions, please call:
Monday to Friday (excluding public Financial Services Limited. 0345 603 7037 (in the UK) or
holidays in England and Wales)) +44 (0)121 415 7560 (outside the UK).
For postal transactions, please call:
0371 384 2991* to request a
dealing form.
Corporate Sponsored Nominee Account This is a convenient way to manage your shares without requiring An application form can be requested
a share certificate. The service provides a facility for you to hold from www.shareview.co.uk or by
your shares in a nominee account sponsored by the company. contacting Equiniti.
You will continue to receive dividend payments, Annual Reports
and can attend and vote at the company’s general meetings.
Shareholders’ names do not appear on the publicly available
share register and the service is free to join.
Individual Savings Accounts (ISAs)† The company has arranged for Equiniti Financial Services Details are available from www.shareview.co.uk
Limited to provide a GSK Corporate ISA to hold GSK shares. or can be requested by telephoning Equiniti,
on 0345 300 0430. Lines are open 8.00am
to 4.30pm for dealing, and until 6.00pm for
enquiries Monday to Friday (excluding public
holidays in England and Wales).
* Llines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday (excluding public holidays in England and Wales).
† The provision of share dealing details is not intended to be an invitation or inducement to engage in an investment activity. Advice on share dealing should be obtained from a
stockbroker or independent financial adviser.
294 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Other statutory disclosures continued
Shareholders services and contacts continued
ADS Depositary Contacts
The ADR programme is administered by J.P. Morgan Investor relations
Chase Bank, N.A: Investor relations may be contacted as follows:
Regular Correspondence: UK
EQ Shareowner Services 980 Great West Road
P.O. Box 64504 Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS
St. Paul, MN 55164-0504 Tel: +44 (0)20 8047 5000
Delivery of Stock Certificates and Overnight Mail: US
EQ Shareowner Services
5 Crescent Drive
110 Centre Point Curve, Suite 101
Philadelphia PA 19112
Mendota Heights, MN 55120-4100
Tel: +1 888 825 5249 (US toll free)
www.shareowneronline.com Tel: +1 215 751 4611 (outside the US)
General: +1 800 990 1135 GSK Response Center
From outside the U.S: +1 651 453 2128
Tel: +1 888 825 5249 (US toll free)
The Depository also provides Global Invest Direct, a direct
Share scam alert
ADS purchase/sale and dividend reinvestment plan for ADS
If you receive an unsolicited telephone call offering to sell or buy
holders. For details on how to enrol please visit www.adr.com
your shares, please take extra care. The caller may be part of a
or call the above helpline number to obtain an enrolment pack.
highly organised financial scam.
Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham
If you are a UK shareholder, please contact the Financial
Corporate PEPs
Conduct Authority at www.fca.org.uk/consumers or on its
The Share Centre Limited
consumer helpline:
Oxford House, Oxford Road, Aylesbury, Bucks HP21 8SZ
Tel: +44 (0)1296 414 141 Tel: 0800 111 6768 (in the UK)*
www.share.com
Tel: +44 (0)20 7066 1000 (outside the UK)
Donating shares to Save the Children * Lines are open from 8.00am to 6.00pm, UK time, Monday to Friday, except UK public
holidays, and 9.00am to 1.00pm on Saturdays.
In 2013, GSK embarked on an ambitious global partnership
with Save the Children to share our expertise and resources
with the aim of helping to save the lives of one million children.
Shareholders with a small number of shares, the value of which
makes it uneconomical to sell, may wish to consider donating
them to Save the Children. Donated shares will be aggregated
and sold by Save the Children who will use the funds raised to
help them reach the above goal.†
To obtain a share donation form, please contact our registrar,
Equiniti, which is managing the donation and sale of UK shares
to Save the Children free of charge.
† The provision of share dealing details is not intended to be an invitation or inducement
to engage in an investment activity. Advice on share dealing should be obtained from
a stockbroker or independent financial adviser.
GSK Annual Report 2019 295Other statutory disclosures continued
US law and regulation
A number of provisions of US law and regulation apply to the Section 302: Corporate responsibility for
company because our shares are quoted on the NYSE in the financial reports
form of ADS. Sarbanes-Oxley requires for the CEO and the CFO to complete
formal certifications, confirming that:
NYSE rules
In general, the NYSE rules permit the company to follow UK – they have each reviewed the annual report on Form 20-F
corporate governance practices instead of those applied in the – based on their knowledge, the annual report on Form 20-F
US, provided that we explain any significant variations. This contains no material misstatements or omissions
explanation is contained in our Form 20-F, which can be
– based on their knowledge, the financial statements and other
accessed from the Securities and Exchange Commission’s
financial information fairly present, in all material respects, the
(SEC) EDGAR database or via our website. NYSE rules require
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows as of
us to file annual and interim written affirmations concerning our
the dates, and for the periods, presented in the annual report
Audit & Risk Committee (ARC) and our statement on significant
on Form 20-F
differences in corporate governance.
– they are responsible for establishing and maintaining
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
disclosure controls and procedures that ensure that material
Following a number of corporate and accounting scandals in information is made known to them, and have evaluated the
the US, Congress passed the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. effectiveness of these controls and procedures as at the year-
Sarbanes-Oxley is a wide-ranging piece of legislation end, the results of such evaluation being contained in the
concerned largely with financial reporting and corporate annual report on Form 20-F
governance.
– they are responsible for establishing and maintaining internal
As recommended by the SEC, the company has established a control over financial reporting that provides reasonable
Disclosure Committee. The Committee reports to the CEO, the assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and
CFO and to the ARC. It is chaired by the Company Secretary the preparation of financial statements for external purposes
and its members consist of senior managers from finance, legal, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles
corporate communications and investor relations.
– they have disclosed in the annual report on Form 20-F any
External legal counsel, the external auditors and internal experts changes in internal controls over financial reporting during the
are invited to attend the Disclosure Committee’s meetings period covered by the annual report on Form 20-F that have
periodically. The Committee has responsibility for considering materially affected, or are reasonably likely to affect materially,
the materiality of information and, on a timely basis, determining the company’s internal control over financial reporting, and
the disclosure of that information. It has responsibility for the they have disclosed, based on their most recent evaluation of
timely filing of reports with the SEC and the formal review of internal control over financial reporting, to the external auditor
the Annual Report and Form 20-F. In 2019, the Committee met and the ARC, all significant deficiencies and material
18 times. weaknesses in the design or operation of internal controls
Sarbanes-Oxley requires that the annual report on Form 20-F over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to affect
contains a statement as to whether a member of the ARC is an adversely the company’s ability to record, process,
audit committee financial expert, as defined in rules under summarise and report financial information, and any fraud
Sarbanes-Oxley. Such a statement for the relevant member of (regardless of materiality) involving persons that have a
the ARC (Judy Lewent) is included in the ARC report on page significant role in the company’s internal control over financial
96 and in her biography on page 81. Additional disclosure reporting.
requirements arise under section 302 and section 404 of The Group has carried out an evaluation under the supervision
Sarbanes-Oxley in respect of disclosure controls and and with the participation of its management, including the CEO
procedures and internal control over financial reporting. and CFO, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of
the Group’s disclosure controls and procedures as at 31
December 2019.
There are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system
of disclosure controls and procedures, including the possibility
of human error and the circumvention or overriding of the
controls and procedures. Accordingly, even effective disclosure
controls and procedures can only provide reasonable
assurance of achieving their control objectives.
296 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Other statutory disclosures continued
US law and regulation continued
The CEO and CFO expect to complete these certifications The Group exports certain pharmaceutical, vaccine and
and report their conclusions on the effectiveness of disclosure consumer products to Iran, via sales by non-US entities that
controls and procedures in March 2020, following which the are not subsidiaries of a US entity, to two privately held Iranian
certifications will be filed with the SEC as part of our Group’s distributors.
Form 20-F.
The Group does not regularly receive information regarding
Section 404: Management’s annual report on internal the identity of its distributors' downstream customers and
control over financial reporting intermediaries in Iran, and it is possible that these parties
In accordance with the requirements of section 404 of include entities, such as government-owned hospitals and
Sarbanes-Oxley, the following report is provided by pharmacies, that are owned directly or indirectly by the Iranian
management in respect of the company’s internal control over government or by persons or entities sanctioned in connection
financial reporting (as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) with terrorism or proliferation activities. The Group understands
under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended that a sub-distributor to which the Group's privately held
(the Exchange Act)): distributor in Iran previously sold Group medicines may be an
entity whose property is blocked pursuant to Executive Order
– management is responsible for establishing and maintaining
13224 as a consequence of its indirect ownership structure.
adequate internal control over financial reporting for the
Upon learning of the sub-distributor's potential ownership
Group. Internal control over financial reporting is designed
structure, the Group required its distributor in Iran to terminate
to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
the relevant sub-distributor.
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements
for external purposes in accordance with IFRS Because the Group does not regularly receive information
regarding the identity of its distributors' downstream customers
– management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness
it cannot establish the proportion of gross revenue or sales
of internal control over financial reporting based on the
potentially attributable to entities affiliated with the Iranian
framework, Internal Control – Integrated Framework (2013)
government or parties sanctioned for disclosable activities.
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of
As a result, the Group is reporting the entire gross revenues
the Treadway Commission (COSO)
(£3.2 million) and net loss (£0.16 million) from the Group's
– there have been no changes in the Group’s internal control sales to Iran in 2019.
over financial reporting during 2019 that have materially
The Group is also aware that some hospitals or other medical
affected, or are reasonably likely to affect materially, the
facilities in Lebanon may be affiliated with or controlled by
Group’s internal control over financial reporting
Hezbollah or other groups that are designated by the United
– management has assessed the effectiveness of internal States pursuant to Executive Order 13224. Again, the Group
control over financial reporting as at 31 December 2019 does not deal directly with such hospitals or facilities and sells
and its conclusion will be filed as part of the Group’s Form through distributors. The Group is unable to establish the
20-F, and proportion of gross revenue or sales potentially attributable
to reportable activities. As a result, the Group is reporting
– Deloitte LLP, which has audited the consolidated financial
the entire gross revenues (£47.8 million) and net profits
statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December
(£20.9 million) from the Group's sales to Lebanon in 2019.
2019, has also assessed the effectiveness of the Group’s
internal control over financial reporting under Auditing Unless noted, the Group intends to continue the activities
Standard 2201 of the Public Company Accounting Oversight described above.
Board (United States). Their audit report will be filed with the
In addition to Section 13(r) of the Exchange Act, US law
Group’s Form 20-F.
generally restricts dealings by US persons and dealings that
Section 13(r) of the Exchange Act otherwise are subject to US jurisdiction with certain countries or
territories that are subject to comprehensive sanctions, currently
Section 13(r) of the Exchange Act requires issuers to make
Crimea, Cuba, Iran, North Korea, and Syria, as well as with the
specific disclosure in their annual reports of certain types of
Government of Venezuela (though not with the country of
dealings with Iran, including transactions or dealings with
Venezuela as a whole). The Group does business, via non-US
government-owned entities, as well as dealings with entities
entities (which are not owned or controlled by US entities), in
sanctioned for activities related to terrorism or proliferation of
certain such jurisdictions. While we believe the Group complies
weapons of mass destruction, even when those activities are
with all applicable US sanctions in all material respects, such
not prohibited by US law and do not involve US persons.
laws are complex and continue to evolve rapidly.
GSK Annual Report 2019 297Other statutory disclosures continued
Donations to political organisations and political expenditure
To ensure a consistent approach to political contributions As a result, the definitions may cover legitimate business
across the Group, in 2009 a global policy was introduced activities not in the ordinary sense considered to be political
to voluntarily stop all corporate political contributions. donations or political expenditure, nor are they designed to
support any political party or independent election candidate.
In the period from 1 January 2009 to 31 December 2019,
the Group did not make any political donations to EU or Therefore, notwithstanding our policy, and while we do
non-EU organisations. not intend to make donations to any EU political parties or
organisations, nor to incur any EU political expenditure, we
Notwithstanding the introduction of this policy, in accordance
annually seek shareholder authorisation for any inadvertent
with the Federal Election Campaign Act in the US, we continue
expenditure.
to support an employee-operated Political Action Committee
(PAC) that facilitates voluntary political donations by eligible The authority is a precautionary measure to ensure that the
GSK employees. company and its subsidiaries do not inadvertently breach the
legislation.
The PAC is not controlled by GSK. Decisions on the
amounts and recipients of contributions are made by This authorisation process, for expenditure of up to £100,000
participating employees exercising their legal right to pool each year, dates back to the AGM held in May 2001, following
their resources and make political contributions, which are the introduction of the Political Parties, Elections and
subject to strict limitations. In 2019, a total of US$ 265,185 Referendums Act 2000. The authority has since been
(2018 – US$ 345,190) was donated to political organisations renewed annually.
by the GSK employee PAC.
English law requires prior shareholder approval for political
contributions to EU political parties and independent election
candidates as well as for any EU political expenditure. The
definitions of political donations, political expenditure, and
political organisations used in the legislation are, however,
quite broad. In particular, the definition of EU political
organisations may extend to bodies such as those concerned
with policy review, law reform, the representation of the
business community and special interest groups such as
those concerned with the environment, which the company
and its subsidiaries might wish to support.
298 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Other statutory disclosures continued
Group companies
In accordance with Section 409 of the Companies Act 2006 a full list of subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures and joint
arrangements, the address of the registered office and effective percentage of equity owned, as at 31 December 2019 are
disclosed below. Unless otherwise stated the share capital disclosed comprises Ordinary shares which are indirectly held by
GlaxoSmithKline plc. The percentage held by class of share is stated where this is less than 100%. Unless otherwise stated,
all subsidiary companies have their registered office and are tax resident in their country of incorporation.
Name Security Registered address
Wholly owned subsidiaries
1506369 Alberta ULC Common 3500 855-2nd Street SW, Calgary, AB, T2P 4J8, Canada
Action Potential Venture Capital Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Adechsa GmbH (ii) Ordinary c/o PRV Provides Treuhandgesellschaft AG, Dorfstrasse 38, Baar,
6341, Switzerland
Affymax Research Institute Common Corporation Service Company, 2710 Gateway Oaks Drive, Suite 150N,
Sacramento, California, 95833, United States
Alenfarma – Especialidades Farmaceuticas, Limitada (ii) Ordinary Quota Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, Alges,
1495-131, Portugal
Allen & Hanburys Limited (ii) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Allen & Hanburys Pharmaceutical Nigeria Limited Ordinary 24 Abimbola Way, Ilasamaja, Isolo, Lagos, Nigeria
Allen Farmaceutica, S.A. Ordinary Severo Ochoa, 2, Parque Tecnologico de Madrid, Tres Cantos, Madrid,
28760, Spain
Allen Pharmazeutika Gesellschaft m.b.H. Ordinary Wagenseilgasse 3, Euro Plaza, Gebäude I, 4. Stock, Vienna, A-1120,
Austria
Barrier Therapeutics, Inc. Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
Beecham Group p.l.c 20p Shares ‘A’; 5p Shares ‘B’ 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Beecham Pharmaceuticals (Pte) Limited Ordinary 38 Quality Road, Jurong Industrial Estate, Jurong, 618809, Singapore
Beecham Portuguesa-Produtos Farmaceuticos e Quimicos, Lda Ordinary Quota Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, Alges,
1495-131, Portugal
Beecham S.A. (ii) Ordinary Parc de la Noire Epine, rue Fleming 20, 1300 Wavre, Belgium
Biovesta Ilaçlari Ltd. Sti. (ii) Nominative Büyükdere Caddesi No. 173, 1.Levent Plaza B Blok, 1.Levent, Istanbul,
34394, Turkey
Burroughs Wellcome & Co (Bangladesh) Limited Ordinary Sweden Tower, 1, Harinnachala, Konabari, Gazipur, Bangladesh
Cascan GmbH & Co. KG Partnership Capital Industriestrasse 32-36, Bad Oldesloe, 23843, Germany
Castleton Investment Ltd (iv) Ordinary c/o DTOS, 19 Cybercity, 10th Floor Standard Chartered Tower,
Ebene, Mauritius
Cellzome GmbH Ordinary Meyerhofstrasse 1, Heidelberg, 69117, Germany
Cellzome Therapeutics, Inc. (ii) Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
Cellzome, Inc. Common; Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Series A Preferred; Delaware, 19808, United States
Series B Preferred;
Series C-1 Convertible Preferred;
Series C-3 Convertible Preferred
Charles Midgley Limited (ii) Ordinary; 7% Cumulative Preference 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Clarges Pharmaceuticals Trustees Limited (ii) (iv) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Colleen Corporation Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
Corixa Corporation Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
Coulter Pharmaceutical, Inc. (ii) Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
Dealcyber Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Desarrollo Energia Solar Alternativa S.L. Ordinary Severo Ochoa, 2, Parque Tecnologico de Madrid, Tres Cantos, Madrid,
28760, Spain
Duncan Flockhart Australia Pty Limited (ii) (iv) Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia
Etex Farmaceutica Ltda Social Capital Avenue Andres Bello 2687, Piso 19, Las Condes, Santiago, C.P.
7550611, Chile
Fipar (Thailand) Ltd (in liquidation) Ordinary 12th Floor Wave Place, 55 Wireless Road, Lumpini, Pathumwan,
Bangkok, 10330, Thailand
Genelabs Technologies, Inc. Common Corporation Service Company, 2710 Gateway Oaks Drive, Suite 150N,
Sacramento, California, CA, 95833, United States
Glaxo Group Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Glaxo Kabushiki Kaisha (ii) Ordinary 1-8-1 Akasaka Minato-Ku, Tokyo, Japan
Glaxo Laboratories (Nigeria) Limited (ii) Ordinary 82 Marine Road, Apapa, Lagos, Nigeria
Glaxo Laboratories Limited (ii) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GSK Annual Report 2019 299Other statutory disclosures continued
Group companies continued
Name Security Registered address
Wholly owned subsidiaries continued
Glaxo New Zealand Pension Plan Trustee Limited Ordinary Level 11, Zurich House, 21 Queen Street, Auckland, 1010, New Zealand
Glaxo Operations UK Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Glaxo Properties BV Ordinary Huis ter Heideweg 62, 3705 LZ, Zeist, Netherlands
Glaxo Trustees Limited (ii) (iv) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Glaxo Verwaltungs GmbH Ordinary Industriestrasse 32-36, Bad Oldesloe, 23843, Germany
Glaxo Wellcome Australia Pty Ltd (ii) (iv) Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia
Glaxo Wellcome Farmaceutica, Limitada Ordinary Quota Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, Alges,
1495-131, Portugal
Glaxo Wellcome International B.V. (ii) (iii) Ordinary Huis ter Heideweg 62, 3705 LZ, Zeist, Netherlands
Glaxo Wellcome Manufacturing Pte Ltd Ordinary 1 Pioneer Sector 1, Jurong Industrial Estate, Jurong, 628413, Singapore
Glaxo Wellcome Production S.A.S. Ordinary 23 rue François Jacob, 92500, Rueil-Malmaison, France
Glaxo Wellcome Vidhyasom Limited (ii) Ordinary 12th Floor Wave Place, 55 Wireless Road, Lumpini, Pathumwan,
Bangkok, 10330, Thailand
Glaxo Wellcome, S.A. Ordinary Poligono Industrial Allendeduero, Avenida de Extremadura, 3, Aranda de
Duero, Burgos, 09400, Spain
Glaxo, S.A. Ordinary Severo Ochoa, 2, Parque Tecnologico de Madrid, Tres Cantos, Madrid,
28760, Spain
Glaxo-Allenburys (Nigeria) Limited (ii) Ordinary 41 Creek Road, Apapa, Lagos, PMB 1401, Nigeria
Glaxochem Pte Ltd (iii) Ordinary 23 Rochester Park, 139234, Singapore
GlaxoSmithKline – Produtos Farmaceuticos, Limitada Ordinary Quota Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, Alges,
1495-131, Portugal
GlaxoSmithKline (Cambodia) Co., Ltd. (in liquidation) Ordinary 5th Floor DKSH Building, No. 797 Preah Monivong Boulevard (Corner of
Street 484), Sangkat Phsar Deum Thakov, Khan Chamkarmon, Phnom
Penh, Cambodia
GlaxoSmithKline (China) Investment Co Ltd Ordinary Room 901-910, Building A, Ocean International Center, 56 Mid 4th
East Ring Road, Bejing, Chaoyang District, China
GlaxoSmithKline (China) R&D Company Limited Equity F1-3, No. 18 building, 999 Huanke Road, Pilot Free Trade Zone,
Shanghai, 201210, China
GlaxoSmithKline (Cyprus) Limited Ordinary Arch. Makariou III, 2-4, Capital Center, 9th Floor, Nicosia, P.C. 1505,
Cyprus
GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) S.R.L. Ordinary 1-5 Costache Negri Street, Opera Center One, 5th and 6th floors,
Zone 1, District 5, Bucharest, Romania
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited (vii) Ordinary 12 Riverwalk Citywest Business Campus, Dublin, 24, Ireland
GlaxoSmithKline (Israel) Ltd Ordinary 25 Basel Street, PO Box 10283, Petach-Tikva, 49002, Israel
GlaxoSmithKline (Malta) Limited Ordinary 1, First Floor, De La Cruz Avenue, Qormi, QRM2458, Malta
GlaxoSmithKline (Private) Limited (ii) Ordinary Unit 3, 20 Anthony Road, Msasa, Harare, Zimbabwe
GlaxoSmithKline (Thailand) Limited Ordinary 12th Floor Wave Place, 55 Wireless Road, Lumpini, Pathumwan,
Bangkok, 10330, Thailand
GlaxoSmithKline A.E.B.E. Ordinary 266 Kifissias Avenue, Halandri, Athens, 152 32, Greece
GlaxoSmithKline AB Ordinary Hemvarnsg. 9, Solna, 171 54, Sweden
GlaxoSmithKline AG Ordinary Talstrasse 3-5, 3053 Muenchenbuchsee, Switzerland
GlaxoSmithKline Angola Unipessoal Limitada (iv) Quotas Luanda, Bairro Petrangol, Estrada de Cacuaco n° 288, Angola
GlaxoSmithKline Argentina S.A. Ordinary Tucumán 1, piso 4, Buenos Aires, C1049AAA, Argentina
GlaxoSmithKline AS Ordinary Drammensveien 288, 0283 Oslo, Norway
GlaxoSmithKline Asia Pvt. Limited Equity Patiala Road, Nabha 147201, Dist Patiala, Punjab, India
GlaxoSmithKline Australia Pty Ltd Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia
GlaxoSmithKline B.V. Ordinary Huis ter Heideweg 62, 3705 LZ, Zeist, Netherlands
GlaxoSmithKline Beteiligungs GmbH Ordinary Prinzregentenplatz 9, Munchen, 81675, Germany
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals (Shanghai) Ltd. Ordinary No. 277 Niudun Road, China (Shanghai) Pilot Free Trade Zone
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals Kft. Ordinary 2100 Gödöllõ, Homoki Nagy István utca 1, Hungary
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals S.A.S. Ordinary 637 Rue des Aulnois, Saint-Amand Les Eaux, 59230, France
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals SA Ordinary; Preference Rue de l'Institut 89, B-1330 Rixensart, Belgium
GlaxoSmithKline Brasil Limitada Quotas Estrada dos Bandeirantes, 8464, Rio de Janeiro, 22783-110, Brazil
GlaxoSmithKline Capital Inc. Common Wilmington Trust SP Services Inc., 1105 North Market Street,
Suite 1300, Wilmington, Delaware, 19801, United States
GlaxoSmithKline Capital plc Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Caribbean Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Chile Farmaceutica Limitada Social Capital Avenue Andres Bello No. 2687, Piso 19, Las Condes, Santiago,
C.P. 7550611, Chile
GlaxoSmithKline Colombia S.A. Ordinary Avenida El Dorado, #69B-45/Piso 9, Bogota, Colombia
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Holdings Limited (i) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Investments (Ireland) Ordinary Knockbrack, Dungarvan, Co Waterford, X35 RY76, Ireland
Limited (iii) (iv)
300 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Other statutory disclosures continued
Group companies continued
Name Security Registered address
Wholly owned subsidiaries continued
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Ireland IP Limited (iii) (iv) Ordinary Knockbrack, Dungarvan, Co Waterford, X35 RY76, Ireland
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Holding B.V. (ii) Ordinary Huis ter Heideweg 62, 3705 LZ, Zeist, Netherlands
GlaxoSmithKline d.o.o Quotas Zmja od Bosne broj 7-7a, Sarajevo, 71000, Bosnia and Herzegovina
GlaxoSmithKline d.o.o. Equity capital Ulica Damira Tomljanovica Gavrana 15, Zagreb, Croatia
GlaxoSmithKline doo Beograd Ordinary Omladinskih brigada 88, New Belgrade, City of Belgrade, 11070, Serbia
GlaxoSmithKline Ecuador S.A. Ordinary Av 10 De Agosto N36-239, y Naciones Unidas, Edificio
Electroectuatoriana, 2do piso, Quito, Ecuador
GlaxoSmithKline Eesti OU Ordinary Lõõtsa 8a, Tallinn, 11415, Estonia
GlaxoSmithKline El Salvador S.A. de C.V. Ordinary Avenida El Boqueron y Calle Izalco No 7 y 8 Parque Industrial El
Boqueron, Santa Elen, Antiguo Custatlan, La Libertad, El Salvador
GlaxoSmithKline EOOD Ordinary 115 G Tsarigradsko Shose Blvd., floor 9, Mladost Region, Sofia,
1784, Bulgaria
GlaxoSmithKline Export Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Export Panama S.A. Ordinary Panama City, Republic of Panama, Panama
GlaxoSmithKline Far East B.V. Ordinary Huis ter Heideweg 62, 3705 LZ, Zeist, Netherlands
GlaxoSmithKline Finance plc Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline GmbH & Co. KG Partnership Capital Prinzregentenplatz 9, Munchen, 81675, Germany
GlaxoSmithKline Guatemala S.A. Ordinary Novena Avenida 0-09, Zona 4, Guatemala City, Guatemala
GlaxoSmithKline Holding AS Ordinary Drammensveien 288, 0283 Oslo, Norway
GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (Americas) Inc. Common Wilmington Trust SP Services Inc., 1105 North Market Street, Suite 1300,
Wilmington, Delaware, 19801, United States
GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (Ireland) Limited Ordinary; Deferred 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (One) Limited (i) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Holdings Limited (i) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Holdings Pty Ltd Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia
GlaxoSmithKline Honduras S.A. Ordinary Tegucigalpa, MDC, Honduras
GlaxoSmithKline IHC Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Ilaclari Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S. Nominative Büyükdere Caddesi No. 173, 1.Levent Plaza B Blok, 1.Levent, Istanbul,
34394, Turkey
GlaxoSmithKline Inc. Class A Common; Class C Preference 7333 Mississauga Road North, Mississauga, ON, L5N 6L4, Canada
GlaxoSmithKline Insurance Ltd. Ordinary 19 Par-La-Ville Road, Hamilton, HM11, Bermuda
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property (No.2) Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property (No.3) Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property (No.4) Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property (No.5) Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property Development Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property Holdings Limited A Ordinary; B Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property Limited Ordinary; Deferred 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property Management Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline International Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Investigación y Desarrollo, S.L. Ordinary Severo Ochoa 2 Parque Tecnológico de Madrid, Tres Cantos, Madrid,
28760, Spain
GlaxoSmithKline Investments (Ireland) Limited (iii) (iv) Ordinary 12 Riverwalk Citywest Business Campus, Dublin, 24 Ireland
GlaxoSmithKline Investments Pty Ltd Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia
GlaxoSmithKline K.K. Ordinary 1-8-1 Akasaka Minato-Ku, Tokyo, Japan
GlaxoSmithKline Korea Limited Ordinary 9F LS Yongsan Tower 92, Hangangdae-ro Yongsan-gu, Seoul, 04386,
Republic of Korea
GlaxoSmithKline Latin America, S.A. Ordinary Panama City, Republic of Panama, Panama
GlaxoSmithKline Latvia SIA Ordinary Duntes iela 3, Riga, Latvia
GlaxoSmithKline Lietuva UAB Ordinary Ukmerges st. 120, Vilnius, LT-08105, Lithuania
GlaxoSmithKline Limited Ordinary 23/F., Tower 6, The Gateway, 9 Canton Road, Tsimshatsui, Kowloon,
Hong Kong
GlaxoSmithKline LLC LLC Interests Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
GlaxoSmithKline Manufacturing SpA Ordinary Via Alessandro Fleming 2, Verona, 37135, Italy
GlaxoSmithKline Maroc S.A. Ordinary 42-44 Angle Bd, Rachidi et Abou Hamed El Glaza, Casablanca, Morocco
GlaxoSmithKline Medical and Healthcare Products Limited Ordinary H-1124, Csorsz utca 43, Budapest, Hungary
GlaxoSmithKline Mercury Limited (i) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Mexico S.A. de C.V. Ordinary A; Ordinary B Calzada, Mexico-Xochimilco 4900, Colonia San Lorenzo, Huipulco,
Delegacion Tlalpan, 14370, Mexico
GSK Annual Report 2019 301Other statutory disclosures continued
Group companies continued
Name Security Registered address
Wholly owned subsidiaries continued
GlaxoSmithKline NZ Limited Ordinary Level 11, Zurich House, 21 Queen Street, Auckland, 1010, New Zealand
GlaxoSmithKline Oy Ordinary Piispansilta 9A, P.O. Box 24, Espoo, FIN-02230, Finland
GlaxoSmithKline Peru S.A. Ordinary Av. Javier Prado Oeste, 995, San Isidro, Lima 27, Peru
GlaxoSmithKline Pharma A/S Ordinary Nykaer 68, Brondby, DK-2605, Denmark
GlaxoSmithKline Pharma GmbH Ordinary Wagenseilgasse 3, Euro Plaza, Gebäude I, 4. Stock, Vienna,
A-1120, Austria
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceutical Kenya Limited Ordinary Likoni Road, PO Box 10643, 00100, Nairobi, Kenya
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceutical Nigeria Limited Ordinary 1 Industrial Avenue, Ilupeju, Ikeja, Lagos, PM B 21218, Nigeria
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceutical Sdn Bhd Ordinary Level 6, Quill 9, 112, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, 46300 Petaling Jaya,
Selangor, Malaysia
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals (Pvt) Ltd Ordinary 121 Galle Road, Kaldemulla, Moratuwa, Sri Lanka
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Costa Rica S.A Ordinary 300 metros al este de la Rotonda de la Betania, Mercedes de Montes de
Oca, Sabanilla, Montes de Oca, San Jose, Costa Rica
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals S.A. Ordinary A; Ordinary B; Ul. Grunwaldzka 189, Poznan, 60-322, Poland
Ordinary C; Ordinary D
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals SA Ordinary Site Apollo, Avenue Pascal 2-4-6, Wavre, 1300, Belgium
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Ukraine LLC Chartered Capital Pavla Tychyny avenue, 1-V, Kiev, 02152, Ukraine
GlaxoSmithKline Pte Ltd Ordinary 23 Rochester Park, 139234, Singapore
GlaxoSmithKline Puerto Rico, Inc. Common The Prentice-Hall Corporation System, Puerto Rico, Inc., c/o Fast
Solutions, LLC, 252 Ponce de Leon Avenue, Floor 20, San Juan,
00918, Puerto Rico
GlaxoSmithKline Republica Dominicana S.A. Ordinary Ave. Lope de Vega #29, Torre NovoCentro, Local 406, Santo Domingo,
Dominican Republic
GlaxoSmithKline Research & Development Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline S.A. Ordinary Severo Ochoa, 2, Parque Tecnologico de Madrid, Tres Cantos,
Madrid, 28760, Spain
GlaxoSmithKline S.p.A. Ordinary Via Alessandro Fleming 2, Verona, 37135, Italy
GlaxoSmithKline s.r.o. Ordinary Hvezdova 1734/2c, Prague, 4 140 00, Czech Republic
GlaxoSmithKline Services GmbH & Co. KG Partnership Capital Prinzregentenplatz 9, Munchen, 81675, Germany
GlaxoSmithKline Services Inc. (ii) Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
GlaxoSmithKline Services Unlimited (i) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline SL Holdings, LLC LLC Interests Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
GlaxoSmithKline SL LLC LLC Interests Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
GlaxoSmithKline SL LP (ii) (ix) Partnership 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Slovakia s.r.o. Ordinary Galvaniho 7/A, Bratislava, 821 04, Slovakia
GlaxoSmithKline South Africa (Pty) Limited Ordinary Flushing Meadows Building, The Campus, 57 Sloane Street,
Bryanston 2021, South Africa
GlaxoSmithKline Trading Ordinary Leningradskiy Prospect 37A, Building 4, Floor 3, Premises XV, Room 1,
Moscow, 125167, Russian Federation
GlaxoSmithKline Trading Services Limited (iii) (vii) Ordinary 12 Riverwalk Citywest Business Campus, Dublin, 24, Ireland
GlaxoSmithKline Tunisia S.A.R.L. Ordinary Immeuble Les Quatres R, Rue du Lac Lochness, Berges du Lac, Tunis,
Tunisia
GlaxoSmithKline UK Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Uruguay S.A. Registered shares provisory stock Salto 1105, CP 11.200 Montevideo, Uruguay
GlaxoSmithKline US Trading Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Venezuela C.A. Ordinary Urbanizacion La Trinidad, Calle luis De Camoems, Edif No 115-117
Apatado Posta, Caracas, 1010, Venezuela
GlaxoSmithKline Vietnam Limited Liability Company (ii) (iv) Equity capital The Metropolitan, 235 Dong Khoi Street, District 1, 7th Floor Unit 701, Ho
Chi Minh City, Viet Nam
GlycoVaxyn AG (iv) Common; Preferred A; Preferred B; Grabenstrasse 3, 8952 Schlieren, Switzerland
Preferred C
Groupe GlaxoSmithKline S.A.S. Ordinary 23 Rue françois Jacob, 92500, Rueil-Malmaison, France
GSK Australia NVD Pty Ltd (ii) (iv) Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia
GSK Business Service Centre Sdn Bhd Ordinary Level 6, Quill 9, 112, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, 46300 Petaling Jaya,
Selangor, Malaysia
GSK Capital K.K. Ordinary 1-8-1 Akasaka Minato-Ku, Tokyo, Japan
GSK CH Argentina S.A. Nominative non endorseable ordinary Tucumán 1, piso 4, Buenos Aires, C1049AAA, Argentina
shares
GSK Commercial Sp. z o.o. Ordinary ul. Rzymowskiego 53, Warsaw, 02-697, Poland
GSK d.o.o., Ljubljana Ordinary Ameriška ulica 8,Ljubljana, 1000, Slovenia
302 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Other statutory disclosures continued
Group companies continued
Name Security Registered address
Wholly owned subsidiaries continued
GSK Finance (No 2) Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GSK Kazakhstan LLP Participation/Participating Interest 273, Nursultan Nazarbayev ave., Almaty, Medeu District, 050059,
Kazakhstan
GSK Limited (ii) Ordinary 980, Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GSK Pharmaceutical Trading SA (ii) (iv) Ordinary 5 Poienelor Street, Brasov, Romania
GSK Services Sp z o.o. Ordinary Ul. Grunwaldzka 189, Poznan, 60-322, Poland
GSK Vaccines BV Ordinary Hullenbergweg 85, Amsterdam, 1101 CL, Netherlands
GSK Vaccines GmbH Ordinary Emil-von-Behring-Str.76, 35041 Marburg, Germany
GSK Vaccines Institute for Global Health S.r.l. Quotas Via Fiorentina 1, Siena, 53100, Italy
GSK Vaccines S.r.l. Quotas Via Fiorentina 1, Siena, 53100, Italy
GSK Vaccines Vertriebs GmbH (ii) Ordinary Rudolf-Diesel-Ring 27, Holzkirchen, 83607, Germany
HGS France S.a.r.l. (ii) (iv) Ordinary 52-54, Rue de la Belle Feuille, Boulogne-Billancourt, 92100, France
Horlicks Limited Ordinary; Preference 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Human Genome Sciences, Inc. Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
ID Biomedical Corporation of Quebec Common 2323, boul. Du Parc Technologique, Québec, G1P 4R8, Canada
Instituto Luso Farmaco, Limitada (ii) Ordinary Quota Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, Alges,
1495-131, Portugal
InterPharma Dienstleistungen GmbH Quotas Wagenseilgasse 3, Euro Plaza, Gebäude I, 4. Stock, Vienna, A-1120,
Austria
J&J Technologies, LC (ii) LLC Interests Corporation Service Company, 100 Shockoe Slip, 2nd Floor, Richmond,
VA 23219, United States
Laboratoire GlaxoSmithKline Ordinary 23 rue François Jacob, 92500, Rueil-Malmaison, France
Laboratoire Pharmaceutique Algérien LPA Production SPA Ordinary Zone Industrielle Est, Boudouaou, Boumerdes, Algeria
Laboratoire Pharmaceutique Algérien SPA Ordinary Zone Industrielle Est, Boudouaou, Boumerdes, Algeria
Laboratoires Paucourt (ii) Ordinary 23 rue François Jacob, 92500, Rueil-Malmaison, France
Laboratoires Saint-Germain (ii) Ordinary 23 rue François Jacob, 92500, Rueil-Malmaison, France
Laboratorios Dermatologicos Darier, S.A de C.V. Ordinary A; Ordinary B Calzada Mexico Xochimilco, 4900 San Lorenzo Huipulco, District Federal
Mexico, 14370, Mexico
Laboratorios Farmaceuticos Stiefel (Portugal) LTDA (ii) Ordinary Quota Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, Alges,
1495-131, Portugal
Laboratorios Stiefel de Venezuela SA Ordinary Calle Luis de Camoens, Edificio GlaxoSmithKline, No. 115-117,
Urb. La Trinidad, Caracas, Venezuela
Laboratorios Stiefel Ltda. Ordinary Rua Professor Joao Cavalheiro Salem, no.1077, Bairro de Bonsucesso,
Municipality of Guarulhos, Sao Paulo, CEP 07243-580, Brazil
Laboratorios Wellcome De Portugal Limitada (ii) Ordinary Quota Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, Alges,
1495-131, Portugal
Montrose Pharma Company Limited (ii) (iv) Ordinary Quota H-1124, Csorsz utca 43, Budapest, Hungary
Okairos AG (in liquidation) Common; Preferred A; Preferred B c/o OBC Suisse AG, Aeschenvorstadt 71, 4051, Basel, Switzerland
Penn Labs Inc. (ii) Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
S.R. One International B.V. Ordinary Huis ter Heideweg, 62 3705, LZ Zeist, Netherlands
S.R. One, Limited Units (Common) Corporation Service Company, 2595 Interstate Drive, Suite 103,
Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, 17110, United States
Setfirst Limited Ordinary; Preference 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Sitari Pharma, Inc. Common Stock Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, DE, 19808, United States
Smith Kline & French Portuguesa-Produtos Farmaceuticos, Ordinary Quota Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, Alges,
LDA (ii) 1495-131, Portugal
SmithKline Beecham (Bangladesh) Private Limited (ii) Ordinary House 2A, Road 138, Gaishari-1, Dhaka 1212, Bangladesh
SmithKline Beecham (Cork) Limited (vii) Ordinary 12 Riverwalk Citywest Business Campus, Dublin, 24, Ireland
SmithKline Beecham (Manufacturing) Limited (vii) Ordinary 12 Riverwalk Citywest Business Campus, Dublin, 24, Ireland
SmithKline Beecham Biologicals US Partnership Partnership Interest Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
SmithKline Beecham Egypt L.L.C. Quotas Amoun Street, El Salam City, Cairo, Egypt
SmithKline Beecham Farma, S.A. Ordinary Severo Ochoa, 2, Parque Tecnologico de Madrid, Tres Cantos,
Madrid, 28760, Spain
SmithKline Beecham Inter-American Corporation (ii) Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
SmithKline Beecham Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GSK Annual Report 2019 303Other statutory disclosures continued
Group companies continued
Name Security Registered address
Wholly owned subsidiaries continued
SmithKline Beecham Overseas Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
SmithKline Beecham Pension Plan Trustee Limited (ii) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
SmithKline Beecham Pension Trustees Limited (ii) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
SmithKline Beecham Pharma GmbH & Co KG Partnership Capital Prinzregentenplatz 9, Munchen, 81675, Germany
SmithKline Beecham Pharma Verwaltungs GmbH Ordinary Prinzregentenplatz 9, Munchen, 81675, Germany
SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals (Pty) Limited (ii) (iv) Ordinary Flushing Meadows Building, The Campus, 57 Sloane Street,
Bryanston 2021, South Africa
SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals Co. Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
SmithKline Beecham Port Louis Limited (iv) Ordinary c/o CIM Corporate Services Ltd, Les Cascades Building,
Edith Cavell Street, Port Louis, Mauritius
SmithKline Beecham Senior Executive Pension Plan Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Trustee Limited (ii)
Stiefel Distributors (Ireland) Limited (ii) (iv) (vii) Ordinary Finisklin Business Park, Sligo, Ireland
Stiefel Dominicana, S.R.L. (ii) (iv) Ordinary Ave. Lope de Vega #29, Torre NovoCentro, Local 406, Santo Domingo,
Dominican Republic
Stiefel Farma, S.A. Ordinary Severo Ochoa, 2, Parque Tecnologico de Madrid, Tres Cantos, Madrid,
28760, Spain
Stiefel GmbH & Co. KG Partnership Capital Industriestrasse 32-36, Bad Oldesloe, 23843, Germany
Stiefel India Private Limited Equity 401-402, A, Wing, 4th Floor,Floral Deck Plaza, Opp Rolta Bhavan,
Central MIDC Road, Mumbai, Andheri (E), 400093, India
Stiefel Laboratories Legacy (Ireland) Limited (vii) Ordinary Finisklin Business Park, Sligo, Ireland
Stiefel Laboratories Limited (ii) Ordinary Eurasia Headquarters, Concorde Road, Maidenhead, Berkshire,
SL6 4BY, England
Stiefel Laboratories Pte Limited (ii) Ordinary 103 Gul Circle, 629589, Singapore
Stiefel Laboratories, Inc. Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
Stiefel Maroc SARL (ii) (iv) Ordinary 275 Boulevard Zerktouni, Casablanca, Morocco
Stiefel Research (Australia) Holdings Pty Ltd Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia
Stiefel Research Australia Pty Ltd Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia
Stiefel West Coast LLC LLC Interests Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
Strebor Inc. Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
Tempero Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Series A Preference; Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Series B Preference; Common Delaware, 19808, United States
Tesaro Bio Austria GmbH Common Fleischmarkt 1/6/12, Vienna, 1010, Austria
Tesaro Bio France SAS Shares 235 avenue Le Jour Se Lève, Boulogne, 92100, France
Tesaro Bio Germany GmbH Shares Leopoldstr. 37A, Munich, 80802, Germany
Tesaro Bio GmbH Ordinary Poststrasse 6, 6300 Zug, Switzerland
Tesaro Bio Italy S.R.L Shares Via Vincenzo, Bellini 22 00198, Roma, Italy
Tesaro Bio Netherlands B.V (x) Shares Joop Geesinkweg 901, 1114 AB, Amsterdam-Duivendrecht, Netherlands
Tesaro Bio Spain S.L.U. Shares/Participation Quota Severo Ochoa, 2 Parque Tecnológico de Madrid, 28760, Tres Cantos,
Madrid, Spain
Tesaro Bio Sweden AB Common c/o BDO Mälarden AB, Skatt Box 24193, Stockholm 10451, Sweden
Tesaro Development Limited Shares Clarendon House, 2 Church Street, Hamilton HM11, Bermuda
Tesaro Securities Corporation (iv) Common CT Corporation, 155 Federal St, Ste. 700, Boston, 02110, United States
Tesaro, Inc. Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, DE, 19808, United States
The Sydney Ross Co. (ii) Common Corporation Service Company, Princeton South Corporate Center, Suite
160, 100 Charles Ewing Blvd, Ewing, New Jersey, 08628, United States
The Wellcome Foundation Investment Company Limited (ii) (iv) Limited by guarantee 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
UCB Pharma Asia Pacific Sdn Bhd (ii) Ordinary 12th Floor, Menara Symphony, No.5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen
13, Petaling Jaya, 46200, Malaysia
Wellcome Consumer Healthcare Limited (ii) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Wellcome Consumer Products Limited (ii) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Wellcome Developments Pty Ltd (ii) (iv) Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia
Wellcome Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Wellcome Operations Pty Ltd (ii) (iv) Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia
304 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Other statutory disclosures continued
Group companies continued
Effective %
Name Security Ownership Registered address
Subsidiaries where the effective interest is less than 100%
Alacer Corp. Common 68 C T Corporation System, 818 West 7th Street, Los Angeles, California,
90017, United States
Amoun Pharmaceutical Industries Co. S.A.E. New Monetary Shares 90.7 El Salam City 11491, PO Box 3001, Cairo, Egypt
(99.5%)
Beecham Enterprises Inc. (ii) Common 59.84 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
Biddle Sawyer Limited Equity 75 252 Dr Annie Besant Road, Mumbai, 400030, India
Block Drug Company, Inc. Common 68 Corporation Service Company, Princeton South Corporate Center, Suite
160, 100 Charles Ewing Blvd, Ewing, New Jersey, 08628, United States
Block Drug Corporation (ii) Common 68 Corporation Service Company, Princeton South Corporate Center, Suite
160, 100 Charles Ewing Blvd, Ewing, New Jersey, 08628, United States
British Pharma Group Limited (i) Captial (50%) 50 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Consumer Healthcare Holdings Limited Ordinary 68 Ramsgate Road, Sandwich, Kent, CT13 9NJ, England
Consumer Healthcare Intermediate Holdings Limited Ordinary 68 Ramsgate Road, Sandwich, Kent, CT13 9NJ, England
Duncan Consumer Healthcare Philippines Inc Common 68 2266 Don Chino Roces Avenue, Makati City, Philippines
Duncan Pharmaceuticals Philippines Inc. Common 92.52 2266 Chino Roces Avenue, City of Makati, 1231, Philippines
Ex-Lax, Inc. Common 68 The Prentice Hall Corporation System, Puerto Rico, Inc., c/o Fast
Solutions, LLC, Citi Tower, 252 Ponce de Leon Avenue, Floor 20,
San Juan, 00918, Puerto Rico
Ferrosan ApS A Shares; B Shares 68 Lautrupvang 8, 2750 Ballerup, Denmark
Ferrosan International ApS Ordinary 68 Lautrupvang 8, 2750 Ballerup, Denmark
Ferrosan S.R.L. Registered capital 68 178/C Calea Turzii, Cluj-Napoca, Cluj County, Romania
Galvani Bioelectronics Inc. Common 55 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
Galvani Bioelectronics Limited A Ordinary; B Ordinary (0%) 55 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Glaxo Saudi Arabia Limited Ordinary 75 PO Box 22617, Area No 56 to 73, Warehouse City, First Stage Al
Khomrah, Jeddah 21416, Saudi Arabia
Glaxo Wellcome Ceylon Limited Ordinary; Ordinary B 67.8 121 Galle Road, Kaldemulla, Moratuwa, Sri Lanka
GlaxoSmithKline (Tianjin) Co. Ltd Ordinary 90 No. 65, the Fifth Avenue, Tai Feng Industrial Park, Tianjin Economic
and Technolog, Tianjin, 300457, China
GlaxoSmithKline Algérie S.P.A. Ordinary 99.99 Zone Industrielle Est, Boudouaou, Wilaya de Boumerdes, Algeria
GlaxoSmithKline Bangladesh Limited (iv) Ordinary (82%) 82 Fouzderhat Industrial Area, Dhaka Trunk Road, North Kattali,
Chittagong - 4217, Bangladesh
GlaxoSmithKline Brasil Produtos para Consumo Quotas 68 66 BL1/302, Vitor Civita Street, Barra Tijuca, Rio de Janeiro,
e Saude Ltda 22775-044, Brazil
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (China) Co. Ltd Ordinary 68 Floor 8, 168 Xizangzhong Road, Huangpu District, Shanghai, China
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (Hong Kong) Ordinary 68 23/F., Tower 6, The Gateway, 9 Canton Road, Tsimshatsui, Kowloon,
Limited Hong Kong
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (Ireland) Limited (vii) Ordinary 68 12 Riverwalk Citywest Business Campus, Dublin, 24, Ireland
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (Overseas) Limited Ordinary 68 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (Thailand) Limited Ordinary 68 13th Floor, Unit 13.05 and 13.06 Wave Place, 55 Wireless Road,
Lumpini, Pathumwan, Bangkok, 10330, Thailand
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (UK) IP Limited Ordinary 68 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (UK) Trading Ordinary 68 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Limited
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (US) IP LLC LLC Interests 68 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare A/S Ordinary 68 Nykaer 68, Brondby, DK-2605, Denmark
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare AB (v) Ordinary 68 Nykaer 68, Brondby, DK-2605, Denmark
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Australia Pty ltd Ordinary 68 82 Hughes Avenue, Ermington, NSW, 2115, Australia
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare B.V. Ordinary 68 Huis ter Heideweg 62, 3705 LZ, Zeist, Netherlands
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Colombia SAS Ordinary 68 Avenida El Dorado, #69B-45/Piso 9, Bogota, Colombia
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Czech Ordinary 68 Hvezdova 1734/2c, Prague, 4 140 00, Czech Republic
Republic s.r.o.
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Finance Limited Ordinary 68 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Finance Ordinary 68 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
No.2 Limited
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Finland Oy Ordinary 68 Piispansilta 9A, Fin-02230, Espoo, Finland
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare GmbH Ordinary 68 Wagenseilgasse 3, Euro Plaza, Gebäude I, 4. Stock, Vienna, A-1120,
Austria
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare GmbH & Co. KG Partnership Capital 68 Barthstr. 4, München, 80339, Germany
GSK Annual Report 2019 305Other statutory disclosures continued
Group companies continued
Effective %
Name Security Ownership Registered address
Subsidiaries where the effective interest is less than 100% continued
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Greece Societe Ordinary 68 274 Kifissias Avenue Halandri, Athens, 152 32, Greece
Anonyme
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Holdings A; B(0%); Preference 68 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
(No.2) Limited
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Holdings (US) LLC LLC Interests 68 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Inc. Common 68 7333 Mississauga Road North, Mississagua, ON, L5N 6L4, Canada
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Investments Ordinary 68 Knockbrack, Dungarvan, Co Waterford, X35 RY76, Ireland
(Ireland) (No 3) Limited (iii) (vii)
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Investments Ordinary 68 Knockbrack, Dungarvan, Co Waterford, X35 RY76, Ireland
(Ireland) (No.2) Unlimited Company (iii) (vii)
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Japan K.K. Ordinary 68 1-8-1 Akasaka Minato-Ku, Tokyo, Japan
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Korea Co., Ltd. Ordinary 68 9F LS Yongsan Tower, 92, Hangang-daero, Yongsan-gu, Seoul,
04386, Korea, Republic of
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare L.L.C. LLC Interests 68 Corporation Service Company, 2595 Interstate Drive Suite 103,
Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, 17110, United States
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Limited (iv) Ordinary 72.5 Patiala Road, Nabha 147201, Dist Patiala, Punjab, India
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Mexico, Ordinary 68 Calzada Mexico-Xochimilco 4900, Colonia San Lorenzo Huipulco,
S. De R.L. de C.V. Delegacion Tlalpan, Mexico, D.F. 14370, Mexico
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare New Zealand ULC Ordinary 68 Level 11, Zurich House, 21 Queen Street, Auckland, 1010, New Zealand
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Norway AS Ordinary 68 Drammensveien 288, 1326 Lysaker, Norway
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Pakistan Limited Ordinary (85.8%) 58.30% The Sykes Building, 35 Dockyard Road, West Wharf, Karachi,
74000, Pakistan
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Philippines Inc Common 68 2266 Don Chino Roces Avenue, Makati City, Philippines
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Pte. Ltd. Ordinary 68 23 Rochester Park, 139234, Singapore
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare S.A. Ordinary 68 Site Apollo, Avenue Pascal 2-4-6, Wavre, 1300, Belgium
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare S.A. Ordinary 68 Severo Ochoa, 2, Parque Tecnologico de Madrid, Tres Cantos, Madrid,
28760, Spain
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare S.p.A. Ordinary 68 Via Zambeletti snc,Baranzate, Milan, 20021, Italy
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Saudi Limited Ordinary 68 603 Salamah Tower 6th Floor, Madinah Road Al-Salamah District Jeddah
21425, Saudi Arabia
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Sdn. Bhd. Ordinary 68 Lot 89, Jalan Enggang, Ampang/Ulu Kelang Industrial Estate, 6800
Ampang, Selangor, Darul Ehsan, Malaysia
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Slovakia s. r. o. Ownership interest 68 Galvaniho 7/A, Bratislava, 821 04, Slovakia
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare South Africa Ordinary 68 Flushing Meadows Building, The Campus, 57 Sloane Street, Bryanston
(Pty) Ltd 2021, South Africa
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Sp.z.o.o. Ordinary 68 Ul. Grunwaldzka 189, Poznan, 60-322, Poland
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare SRL Ordinary 68 1-5 Costache Negri Street, Opera Center One, 6th floor (Zone 2), District
5, Bucharest, Romania
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Vietnam Charter Capital 68 Floor 16, Metropolitan, 235 Dong Khoi, Ben Nghe Ward, District 1,
Company Limited (ii) Ho Chi Minh City, Viet Nam
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare, L.P. Partnership Capital 59.84 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare, Produtos para a Ordinary Quota 68 Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, Alges,
Saude e Higiene, Lda 1495-131, Portugal
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Nigeria plc (vi) Ordinary (46.4%) 46.4 1 Industrial Avenue, Ilupeju, Ikeja, Lagos, PM B 21218, Nigeria
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Private Limited Equity 68 Patiala Road, Nabha 147201, Dist Patiala, Punjab, India
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Trading Services Limited Ordinary 68 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Costa Rica S.A. Ordinary 68 300 metros al este de la Rotonda de la Betania, Mercedes de Montes
de Oca, Sabanilla, Montes de Oca, San Jose, Costa Rica
GlaxoSmithKline Dungarvan Limited (vii) Ordinary 68 Knockbrack, Dungarvan, Co Waterford, X35 RY76, Ireland
GlaxoSmithKline Healthcare AO Ordinary 68 Premises III, Room 9, floor 6, Presnenskaya nab. 10, Moscow, 123112,
Russian Federation
GlaxoSmithKline Healthcare GmbH Ordinary 68 Barthstr. 4, München, 80339, Germany
GlaxoSmithKline Healthcare Ukraine O.O.O. Ownership interest 68 Pavla Tychyny avenue, 1-V, Kiev, 02152, Ukraine
GlaxoSmithKline Limited Ordinary 68 Likoni Road; PO Box 78392; Nairobi; Kenya
GlaxoSmithKline Pakistan Limited Ordinary (82.6%) 82.6 The Sykes Building, 35 Dockyard Road, West Wharf, Karachi, 74000,
Pakistan
GlaxoSmithKline Panama S.A. Ordinary 68 Urbanizacion Industrial Juan D, Calles A Y B, Republic of Panama,
Panama
GlaxoSmithKline Paraguay S.A. Ordinary 68 Oficial Gilberto Aranda 333, Planta Alta casi Salvador del Mundo,
Asuncion, Paraguay
306 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Other statutory disclosures continued
Group companies continued
Effective %
Name Security Ownership Registered address
Subsidiaries where the effective interest is less than 100% continued
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Limited Equity (75%) 75 252 Dr Annie Besant Road, Mumbai, 400030, India
GlaxoSmithKline Philippines Inc Common 92.52 2266 Chino Roces Avenue, City of Makati, 1231, Philippines
GlaxoSmithKline S.A.E. Ordinary (91.2%) 91.2 Boomerang Office Building – Land No. 46, Zone (J) – 1st District, Town
Center – 5th Tagammoe, New Cairo City, Egypt
GlaxoSmithKline Sante Grand Public SAS Ordinary 68 23 rue François Jacob, 92500, Rueil-Malmaison, France
GlaxoSmithKline Tuketici Sagligi Anonim Sirketi Nominative 68 Büyükdere Caddesi No. 173, 1.Levent Plaza B Blok, 1.Levent, Istanbul,
34394, Turkey
GlaxoSmithKline-Consumer Hungary Limited Liability Membership 68 H-1124, Csorsz utca 43, Budapest, Hungary
Company
GSK Canada Holding Company Limited Ordinary 68 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GSK CH Kazakhstan LLP Charter Capital 68 32 A Manasa Str., Bostandyk District, Almaty, 050008, Kazakhstan
GSK Consumer Health, Inc. Common 68 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, DE, 19808, United States
GSK Consumer Healthcare Holdings (US) Inc. Common 68 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, DE, 19808, United States
GSK Consumer Healthcare Holdings No. 2 LLC (iii) Unit 68 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, DE, 19808, United States
GSK Consumer Healthcare Israel Ltd (iv) Ordinary 68 25 Basel Street, Petech Tikva 49510, Israel
GSK Consumer Healthcare Levice, s.r.o. Ordinary 68 Priemyselny Park Gena, Ul. E. Sachsa 4-6, 934 01, Levice, Slovakia
GSK Consumer Healthcare S.A. Ordinary 68 Route de I'Etraz, 1197 Prangins, Switzerland
GSK Consumer Healthcare Schweiz AG Ordinary 68 Suurstoffi 14, Rotkreuz, 6343, Switzerland
GSK Consumer Healthcare Services, Inc. Common 68 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
GSK Consumer Healthcare Singapore Pte. Ltd. Ordinary 68 23 Rochester Park, 139234, Singapore
GSK New Zealand Holding Company Limited Ordinary 68 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GSK-Gebro Consumer Healthcare GmbH Ordinary (60%) 40.8 Bahnhofbichl 13, 6391 Fieberbrunn, Kitzbühel, Austria
Iodosan S.p.A. Ordinary 68 Via Zambeletti snc,Baranzate, Milan, 20021, Italy
Kuhs GmbH Ordinary 68 Barthstr. 4, München, 80339, Germany
Laboratorios ViiV Healthcare, S.L. Ordinary 78.3 Severo Ochoa, 2, Parque Tecnologico de Madrid, Tres Cantos, Madrid,
28760, Spain
Modern Pharma Trading Company L.L.C. Quotas (98.2%) 98.2 Amoun Street, PO Box 3001, El Salam City, Cairo, 11491, Egypt
N.C.H. – Nutrition Consumer Health Ltd (ii) Ordinary 68 14 Hamephalsim St, Petach Tikva, Israel
New PCH LLC Membership Interest 68 The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center,
1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, Delaware, 19801, United States
P.T. SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals A Shares; B Shares (0%) 99 Jl. Pulobuaran Raya, Kav. III DD/2,3,4, Kawasan Industri Pulogadung,
Jakarta, 13930, Indonesia
P.T. Sterling Products Indonesia A Shares; B Shares 68 Graha Paramita Building, 5th F, Jalan Denpasar Raya Blok D-2, Jakarta,
12940, Indonesia
Panadol GmbH Ordinary 68 Barthstr. 4, München, 80339, Germany
PF Consumer FZ-LLC Ordinary 68 3-6 Atlas Business Center, Dubai, United Arab Emirates
PF Consumer Healthcare 1 LLC Membership Interest 68 The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange
Street, Wilmington, Delaware, 19801, United States
PF Consumer Healthcare B.V. Class A; Class B 68 Rivium Westlaan 142, 2909LD Capelle aan den IJssel, Netherlands
PF Consumer Healthcare Brazil Importadora e Distribuidora Quota 68 Barueri, State of Sao Paolo, at Avenida Ceci, No. 1900, Block III,
de Medicamentos Ltda Park 67, Tambore District, 06460-120, Brazil
PF Consumer Healthcare Canada ULC / PF Soins De Common 68 595 Burrad Street, Three Bentall Centre, P.O Box 49314, Suite 2600,
Sante SRI Vancouver, British Columbia Canada V7X 1L3
PF Consumer Healthcare Holding B.V. Ordinary 68 Rivium Westlaan 142, 2909LD Capelle aan den IJssel, Netherlands
PF Consumer Healthcare Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. Quota 68 Paleo de los Tamarindos no. 40, Piso 3, Bosques de las Lomas,
Cuajimalpa de Morelos, Mexico, 05120, Mexico
PF Consumer Healthcare New Zealand ULC Ordinary 68 Level 11, 21 Queen Street, Auckland Central, Auckland, 1010,
New Zealand
PF Consumer Healthcare Singapore Pte. Ltd Ordinary 68 80 Pasir Panjang Road, #16-81/82, Mapletree Business Centre,
117372, Singapore
PF Consumer Healthcare UK Limited Ordinary 68 Ramsgate Road, Sandwich, Kent, CT13 9NJ, England
PF Consumer Ireland Company Limited Ordinary 68 9 Riverwalk, National Digital Park, Citywest Business Park, Dublin,
24, Ireland
PF Healthcare Australia Pty Ltd Ordinary 68 82 Hughes Avenue, Emington, NSW 2115, Australia
Pfizer Consumer Healthcare AB Ordinary 68 Vetenskapsvagen 10, SE-191 90, Sollentuna, Sweden
Pfizer Consumer Healthcare GmbH Ordinary 68 Linkstrasse 10, 10785, Berlin, Germany
Pfizer Consumer Healthcare Italy S.r.l Quota (no stock) 68 04100 Latina, Via Isonzo 71, Italy
Pfizer Consumer Manufacturing Italy S.r.l. Quota (no stock) 68 90, Via Nettunese, 04011, Aprilia (Prov. di Latin), Italy
GSK Annual Report 2019 307Other statutory disclosures continued
Group companies continued
Effective %
Name Security Ownership Registered address
Subsidiaries where the effective interest is less than 100% continued
Pfizer Laboratories PFE (Pty) Ltd. Common 68 Flushing Meadows Building, The Campus, 57 Sloane, Bryanston 2021,
South Africa
Pfizer PFE Colombia SAS Common 68 Avenida Suba No. 95-66, Bogota, Colombia
Pfizer Sante Familiale SAS Ordinary 68 23-25 Avenue du Docteur Lannelongue, 75014 Paris, France
PHIVCO Jersey II Limited (ii) (iii) (iv) (vii) Ordinary 78.3 IFC 5, St Helier, JE1 1ST, Jersey, United Kingdom
PHIVCO Jersey Limited (ii) (iii) (iv) (vii) Ordinary 78.3 IFC 5, St Helier, JE1 1ST, Jersey, United Kingdom
PHIVCO UK II Limited Ordinary 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
PHIVCO UK Limited Ordinary 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
PHIVCO-1 LLC LLC Interests 78.3 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
PHIVCO-2 LLC LLC Interests 78.3 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
PRISM PCH Limited Voting Shares; Non Voting 68 Ramsgate Road, Sandwich, Kent, CT13 9NJ, England
Shares
PT Glaxo Wellcome Indonesia A Shares; B Shares (0%) 95 Jl Pulobuaran Raya Kav III DD/2, 3, 4, Kawasan Industri Pulogadung,
Timur, Jakarta, 13930, Indonesia
PT GSK Consumer Healthcare Indonesia Ordinary 68 Graha Paramita Building, 5th F, Jalan Denpasar Raya Blok D-2, Kuningan,
JAKARTA SELATAN, 12940, Indonesia
PT. Bina Dentalindo (in liquidation) Ordinary 68 Gedung Graha Ganesha Lantai 3, Jl Raya Bekasi Km 17, No5, Jakarta
Timur 13930, Indonesia
Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare LLC (ii) Common Interests 78.3 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
Sino-American Tianjin Smith Kline & French Laboratories Ordinary (55%) 55 Cheng Lin Zhuang Industrial Zone, Dong Li District, Tianjin, 300163,
Ltd China
SmithKline Beecham (Private) Limited Ordinary (99.6%) 67.8 World Trade Center, Level 34, West Tower, Echelon Square,
Colombo 1, Sri Lanka
SmithKline Beecham Research Limited Ordinary 68 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
SmithKline Beecham S.A. Ordinary 68 Ctra de Ajalvir Km 2.500, Alcala de Henares, Madrid, 28806, Spain
SmithKline Beecham-Biomed O.O.O. Participation Interest (97%) 97 Leningradskiy Prospect 37A, Building 4, Floor 2, Premises XIV, Room 2,
Moscow, 125167, Russian Federation
Stafford-Miller (Ireland) Limited (vii) Ordinary 68 Clocherane, Youghal Road, Dungarvan, Co. Waterford, Ireland
Sterling Drug (Malaya) Sdn Berhad Ordinary 68 Lot 89, Jalan Enggang, Ampang/Hung Kelang Industrial Estate 68000
Ampang, Selangor, Darul Ehsan, Malaysia
Sterling Products International, Incorporated (ii) Common 68 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
Stiefel Consumer Healthcare (UK) Limited Ordinary 68 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Stiefel Egypt LLC (ii) Quota (99%) 99 Amoun Street, PO Box 3001, El Salam City, Cairo, 11491, Egypt
Stiefel Laboratories (Ireland) Limited (vii) Ordinary 68 Finisklin Business Park, County Sligo, Ireland
Treerly Health Co., Ltd Capital Contribution 68 Unit 01A, Room 3901, No 16. East Zhujiang Road, Tianhe District,
Guangzhou City, the PRC, China
Vesteralens Naturprodukter AB Ordinary 68 Uddevallavägen 3, SE-452 31, Strömstad, Sweden
Vesteralens Naturprodukter ApS Ordinary 68 Lautrupvang 8, 2750 Ballerup, Denmark
Vesteralens Naturprodukter AS Common 68 Drammensveien 288, 0283 Oslo, 1324 Lysaker, Norge, P.O Box No.3,
Norway
Vesteralens Naturprodukter OY Common 68 Tietokuja 4, FI-00330, Helsinki, Finland
ViiV Healthcare (South Africa) (Proprietary) Limited (ii) (iv) Ordinary 78.3 Flushing Meadows Building, The Campus, 57 Sloane Street,
Bryanston 2021, South Africa
ViiV HealthCare BV Ordinary 78.3 Huis ter Heideweg 62, 3705 LZ, Zeist, Netherlands
ViiV Healthcare Company Common 78.3 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
ViiV Healthcare Finance 1 Limited (iv) Ordinary 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
ViiV Healthcare Finance 2 Limited Ordinary 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
ViiV Healthcare Finance Limited Ordinary; Redeemable 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Preference
ViiV Healthcare GmbH Ordinary 78.3 Prinzregentenplatz 9, Munchen, 81675, Germany
ViiV Healthcare GmbH Ordinary 78.3 Talstrasse 3-5, 3053 Muenchenbuchsee, Switzerland
ViiV Healthcare Hong Kong Limited (ii) Ordinary 78.3 23/F Tower 6, The Gateway, 9 Canton Road, Harbour City, Tsimshatsui,
Kowloon, Hong Kong
ViiV Healthcare Kabushiki Kaisha Ordinary 78.3 1-8-1 Akasaka Minato-Ku, Tokyo, Japan
308 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Other statutory disclosures continued
Group companies continued
Effective %
Name Security Ownership Registered address
Subsidiaries where the effective interest is less than 100% continued
ViiV Healthcare Limited Class A Shares, Deferred; 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Class B Shares (0%);
Class C Shares (0%);
Class D1 (0%); Class D2
(0%); Class E 5% Cumulative
Preference (0%)
ViiV Healthcare Pty Ltd Ordinary 78.3 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia
ViiV Healthcare Puerto Rico, LLC LLC Interests 78.3 Centro International de Mercadeo, 90 carr. 165 Torre 2, Suite 800,
Guaynabo, 00968, Puerto Rico
ViiV Healthcare S.r.l. Quota 78.3 Via Alessandro Fleming 2, Verona, 37135, Italy
ViiV Healthcare SAS Ordinary 78.3 23 rue François Jacob, 92500, Rueil-Malmaison, France
ViiV Healthcare sprl Ordinary 78.3 Site Apollo, Avenue Pascal 2-4-6, Wavre, 1300, Belgium
ViiV Healthcare Trading LLC (ii) Participation Interest 78.3 Leningradskiy Prospect 37A, Building 4, Floor 2, Premises XIV, Room 28,
Moscow, 125167, Russian Federation
ViiV Healthcare Trading Services UK Limited Ordinary 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
ViiV Healthcare UK (No.2) Limited (ii) (iv) Ordinary 78.3 IFC 5, St Helier, JE1 1ST, Jersey, United Kingdom
ViiV Healthcare UK (No.3) Limited Ordinary 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
ViiV Healthcare UK (No.4) Limited Ordinary 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
ViiV Healthcare UK (No.5) Limited Ordinary 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
ViiV Healthcare UK (No.6) Limited Ordinary 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
ViiV Healthcare UK Limited Ordinary 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
ViiV Healthcare ULC Common 78.3 3500 855-2nd Street SW, Calgary, AB, T2P 4J8, Canada
ViiV Healthcare Venture LLC LLC Interests 78.3 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
ViiVHIV Healthcare Unipessoal Lda Quota 78.3 Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, Alges,
1495-131, Portugal
Vog AU PTY LTD (ii) Ordinary; Redeemable 68 82 Hughes Avenue, Ermington, NSW, 2115, Australia
Preference
Winster Pharmaceuticals Limited (ii) Ordinary 46.4 2A Association Avenue, Ilupeju Industrial Estate, Lagos, PO Box 3199,
Nigeria
Wyeth Consumer Healthcare LLC Membership Interest 68 CT Corporation System, 600 N 2nd St, Suite 401, Harrisburg,
Pennsylvania, 17101, United States
Wyeth Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd Registered capital 68 4 Baodai West Road, Suzhou, Jiangsu Province, 215128, China
Wyeth Pharmaceuticals Company (viii) Capital Contribution 68 State Road No 3, Kilometer 141.3, Guayama, 00784, Puerto Rico
Associates
Apollo Therapeutics LLP Partnership Interest (25%) 25 Gunnels Wood Road, Stevenage SG1 2FX, England
GlaxoSmithKline Landholding Company, Inc. Common (40%) 39.9 2266 Chino Roces Avenue, City of Makati, 1231, Philippines
Index Ventures Life VI (Jersey) LP Partnership Interest (25%) 25 44 Esplanade, St. Helier, JE4 9WG, Jersey
Innoviva, Inc. Common (31.7%) 31.6 2000 Sierra Point Parkway, Suite 500, Brisbane, CA 94005,
United States
Kurma Biofund II, FCPR Partnership Interest (32%) 32 24 Rue Royale, 5e étage, 75008 Paris, France
Longwood Founders Fund LP Partnership Interest (28%) 28 The Prudential Tower, 800 Boylston Street, Suite 1555, Boston,
MA 02199, United States
Medicxi Ventures I LP Partnership Interest (26.2%) 26.2 25 Great Pulteney Street, Soho, London W1F 9ND, England
Joint Ventures
Chiron Panacea Vaccines Private Limited (ii) Equity Shares (50%) 50 708/718, 7th Floor, A Wing, Sagar Tech Plaza, Saki Naka, Andheri East,
Mumbai, Maharashtra, 400072, India
Qualivax Pte. Limited Ordinary (50%) 50 80 Robinson Road, #02-00, 068898 Singapore
Quell Intellectual Property Corp., LLC Membership Interest (34%) 34 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
Qura Therapeutics, LLC Units (39.2%) 39.2 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
GSK Annual Report 2019 309Other statutory disclosures continued
Group companies continued
The following UK subsidiaries will take advantage of the audit exemption set out within section 479A of the Companies Act 2006
for the period ended 31 December 2019. Unless otherwise stated, the undertakings listed below are owned, either directly or
indirectly, by GlaxoSmithKline plc.
Company
Name Security Registered address Number
UK registered subsidiaries exempted from audit
Burroughs Wellcome International Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 00543757
Cellzome Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 05001893
Clarges Pharmaceuticals Limited Ordinary; Preference 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 00100583
(99.97%)
Domantis Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 03907643
Edinburgh Pharmaceutical Industries Limited Ordinary; Preference Shewalton Road, Irvine, Ayrshire, KA11 5AP, Scotland SC005534
Eskaylab Limited 10p Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 00099025
Glaxochem (UK) Unlimited Ordinary; Ordinary B; 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 04299472
Ordinary C
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Sri Lanka Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 09400298
Holdings Limited
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (UK) (No.1) Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 00753340
GlaxoSmithKline Investment Holdings Limited (iv) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 07089743
GlaxoSmithKline Investment Services Limited (iv) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 06968741
Glaxo Wellcome UK Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 00480080
Mixis Genetics Limited (iv) Ordinary; Ordinary Euro 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 03225840
Montrose Fine Chemical Company Ltd Ordinary Shewalton Road, Irvine, Ayrshire, KA11 5AP, Scotland SC190635
SmithKline Beecham (Export) Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 02860752
SmithKline Beecham (H) Limited Non-cumulative 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 03296131
non-redeemables;
Ordinary
SmithKline Beecham (Investments) Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 00302065
SmithKline Beecham Marketing and Technical Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 00494385
Services Limited
SmithKline Beecham Nominees Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 00503868
SmithKline Beecham (SWG) Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 00190223
Smith Kline & French Laboratories Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 00052207
Stafford-Miller Ltd Ordinary; Non-Cumulative 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 00318499
Non Redeemable Preference
Stiefel Laboratories (Maidenhead) Ltd (iv) Ordinary Eurasia Headquarters, Concorde Road, Maidenhead, Berkshire, 05354860
SL6 4BY, England
Stiefel Laboratories (U.K.) Ltd Ordinary Eurasia Headquarters, Concorde Road, Maidenhead, Berkshire, 00831160
SL6 4BY, England
Tesaro UK Limited Ordinary 55 Baker Street, London, W1U 7EU, England 07890847
The Wellcome Foundation Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 00194814
ViiV Healthcare Overseas Limited Ordinary* 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 07027385
* The company has an effective ownership in ViiV Healthcare Overseas Limited of 78.3%
In accordance with section 479C of the Companies Act 2006, the Company will guarantee debts and liabilities of the above UK subsidiary undertakings. As at 31 December 2019 the
total sum of these debts and liabilities is £16 million.
Key
(i) Directly owned by GlaxoSmithKline plc.
(ii) D ormant entity.
(iii) T ax resident in the UK.
(iv) Entity expected to be disposed of or removed.
(v) Incorporated in Sweden.
(vi) Consolidated as a subsidiary in accordance with section 1162 (4)(a) of the Companies Act 2006 on the grounds of dominant influence.
(vii) Exempt from the provisions of section 347 and 348 of the Companies Act 2014 (Ireland), in accordance with the exemptions noted in section 357 of that Act.
(viii) Principal business address in Puerto Rico.
(ix) Exempt from the provisions of Regulations 4-6 of the Partnership (Accounts) Regulation 2008, in accordance with the exemptions noted in Regulation 7 of that Regulation.
(x) The Company has provided an undertaking in accordance with Article 2:403 paragraph 1, sub-paragraph F of the Dutch Civil Code to asume joint and several liability for the acts of
Tesaro Bio Netherlands B.V.
310 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Glossary of terms
Terms used in the Annual Report US equivalent or brief description
Accelerated capital allowances Tax allowance in excess of depreciation arising from the purchase of fixed assets that delay
the charging and payment of tax. The equivalent of tax depreciation.
American Depositary Receipt (ADR) R eceipt evidencing title to an ADS. Each GSK ADR represents two Ordinary Shares.
American Depositary Shares (ADS) Listed on the New York Stock Exchange; represents two Ordinary Shares.
Basic earnings per share Basic income per share.
Called up share capital Ordinary Shares, issued and fully paid.
CER growth Growth at constant exchange rates.
The company GlaxoSmithKline plc.
Currency swap An exchange of two currencies, coupled with a subsequent re-exchange of those currencies,
at agreed exchange rates and dates.
Defined benefit plan Pension plan with specific employee benefits, often called ‘final salary scheme’.
Defined contribution plan Pension plan with specific contributions and a level of pension dependent upon the growth
of the pension fund.
Derivative financial instrument A financial instrument that derives its value from the price or rate of some underlying item.
Diluted earnings per share Diluted income per share.
Employee Share Ownership Plan Trusts Trusts established by the Group to satisfy share-based employee incentive plans.
Equity Shareholders’ funds Shareholders’ equity.
Finance lease Capital lease.
Freehold Ownership with absolute rights in perpetuity.
The Group GlaxoSmithKline plc and its subsidiary undertakings.
GSK GlaxoSmithKline plc and its subsidiary undertakings.
Hedging The reduction of risk, normally in relation to foreign currency or interest rate movements,
by making off-setting commitments.
Intangible fixed assets Assets without physical substance, such as computer software, brands, licences, patents,
know-how and marketing rights purchased from outside parties.
Novartis transaction The three-part inter-conditional transaction with Novartis AG involving the Consumer
Healthcare, Vaccines and Oncology businesses completed on 2 March 2015.
Ordinary Share A fully paid up ordinary share in the capital of the company.
Profit Income.
Profit attributable to shareholders Net income.
Share capital Ordinary Shares, capital stock or common stock issued and fully paid.
Share option Stock option.
Share premium account Additional paid-up capital or paid-in surplus (not distributable).
Shares in issue The number of shares outstanding.
Subsidiary An entity in which GSK exercises control.
Treasury share Treasury stock.
Turnover Revenue.
UK Corporate Governance Code As required by the UK Listing Authority, the company has disclosed in the Annual Report how
it has applied the best practice corporate governance provisions of the Financial Reporting
Council’s UK Corporate Governance Code.
GSK Annual Report 2019 311Index
Page Page
2020 Remuneration policy report 141 Investments in associates and joint ventures 198
2020 Remuneration policy summary 140 Investor relations 295
Accounting principles and policies 172 Key accounting judgements and estimates 178
Acquisitions and disposals 222 Key performance indicators 11
Adjustments reconciling profit after tax to operating Legal proceedings 247
cash flows 225 Major restructuring costs 186
Affordability and availability 33 Modern employer 35
Annual General Meeting 2020 291 Movements in equity 218
Approach to tax 53 Net debt 203
Assets held for sale 201 New accounting requirements 179
Associates and joint ventures 188 Nominations Committee Report 92
Audit & Risk Committee Report 96 Non-controlling interests 220
Business model 01 Non-controlling interests in ViiV Healthcare 51
Cash and cash equivalents 201 Non-Executive Directors’ fees 136
Cash generation and conversion 65 Non-financial information statement 48
CEO’s statement 04 Notes to the financial statements 170
Chairman’s statement 03 Operating profit 184
Chairman’s Governance statement 76 Other intangible assets 196
Chairman’s Remuneration annual statement 116 Other investments 199
Climate-related financial disclosure 46 Other non-current assets 199
Commitments 216 Other non-current liabilities 216
Composition, succession and evaluation 92 Other operating income/(expense) 183
Consolidated balance sheet 167 Other provisions 214
Consolidated cash flow statement 169 Our Board 78
Consolidated income statement 166 Our culture 10
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 168 Our long-term priorities 09
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 166 Our preparation for Brexit 48
Consumer Healthcare 27 Pensions and other post-employment benefits 205
Consumer Healthcare products and competition 274 Pharmaceuticals 17
Contingent consideration liabilities 215 Pharmaceutical products, competition and
Contingent liabilities 216 intellectual property 272
Corporate Executive Team 82 Pipeline 269
Corporate governance 75 Presentation of the financial statements 170
Corporate Responsibility Committee Report 109 Principal Group companies 246
Critical accounting policies 72 Principal risks and uncertainties 275
Data and engagement 39 Property, plant and equipment 193
Directors and senior management 139 Quarterly trend 258
Directors’ interests in shares 137 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt 226
Directors’ statement of responsibilities 152 Registrar 294
Dividends 192 Related party transactions 222
Donations to political organisations and Reliable supply 37
political expenditure 298 Remuneration governance 134
Earnings per share 192 Remuneration report 119
Employee costs 185 Reporting framework 50
Employee share schemes 244 Responsible leadership 84
Environment 41 Right of use assets 194
Ethics and values 37 Risk management 43
Exchange rates 180 Science and technology 31
Executive Director remuneration 119 Science Committee report 107
Finance expense 187 Section 172 statement 111
Finance income 187 Share capital and control 288
Financial calendar 2020 291 Share capital and share premium account 217
Financial instruments and related disclosures 227 Shareholder information 288
Financial performance 06 Shareholder services and contacts 294
Financial position and resources 66 Stakeholder engagement 15
Financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc, prepared Taxation 189
under UK GAAP 252 Tax information for shareholders 292
Five year record 263 Trade and other payables 202
Glossary of terms 311 Trade and other receivables 200
Goodwill 195 Treasury policies 71
Group companies 299 Trust 30
Group financial review 49 Turnover and segment information 180
Independent Auditor’s report 154 US law and regulation 296
Industry trends 12 Vaccines 23
Inventories 200 Vaccine products, competition and intellectual property 273
Viability statement 47
312 GSK Annual Report 2019About GSK
GlaxoSmithKline plc was incorporated as an English Brand names
Brand names appearing in italics throughout this report
public limited company on 6 December 1999. We were are trade marks either owned by and/or licensed to GSK
or associated companies, with the exception of Gardasil
formed by a merger between Glaxo Wellcome plc and owned by Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., Rituxan owned by
Biogen MA Inc. and Zofran owned by Novartis AG.
SmithKline Beecham plc. GSK acquired these two
Acknowledgements
English companies on 27 December 2000 as part Printing
Printed sustainably in the UK by Pureprint, a CarbonNeutral®
of the merger arrangements. company with FSC® chain of custody and an ISO 14001
certified environmental management system recycling over
99% of all dry waste.
Our shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange
Paper
and the New York Stock Exchange. Printed on Innovation Premium, an FSC certified paper.
The pulps used are Totally Chlorine Free and the
manufacturing mill has ISO 14001 environmental
management certification. The mill’s energy is produced
Read more at www.gsk.com from 100% biomass fuels sourced from local forestry
and no fossil fuels are used. The carbon emissions have
been measured and offset using the World Land Trust’s
Carbon Balanced scheme.
Download PDFs:
A nnual Report 2019
F orm 20-F
Cautionary statement regarding A number of non-IFRS measures are used to report the The Group’s expectations assume successful delivery of
forward-looking statements performance of our business. These measures are defined the Group’s integration and restructuring plans over the
The Group’s reports filed with or furnished to the US on pages 50 to 52 and a reconciliation of Adjusted results period 2016-2020, including the extension and
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including to Total results is set out on page 62. enhancement to the combined programme announced on
t s b s c i tnh ht t ue va ai es rh et t yr ee a se d dm ml tno f o o toc e e r e nu n nf c x om t tt aps sh tn e .e e m r Fn ec iG dat o lt aa eda rr ttwo nen eiou td , a i snp ft r y tow d s, r itm -r t co hlhi ot tra eet l o ye y f s o p kn e tc ri ou n eoi s n b g hcn tf l a iato i ssc a tsr e tt im otai n mn st r a ef iet o cot h m ni f aro e tw fe ln s u of na u tr b rt ure t sd y cu rl ee - g ur tl hea o i rev res ob v ee e ek fy natd ni thno c , t fegr s to a .o tGr c h An to ar s nr o t .a u l p’s T o p i u An pfh l nvcfe oe e n o nr s ui n r tt a ao mf a lo s n Rs e r a m e n ein l t g pla v ao u ot iti c iro ra d ttan t i ei v sn o i i htn tn oi i on e t o uv fh s uri l.i t d s ta i P un t bd a rdio e eo su n c t p cc u pt e oeom e r nm frb soe fe tu on r rn my r ut t m ed s ato a dho n n a ce e acr es n se e . gn s a Ncao i pon agt r n tec G ohn o i i fin noln a t gt s ax f obt o n ii n rt eS yu e tm rot chee t aii lh st ia sh e en tdK .r line 2 o i p d p in nn ir r6 t tvo oe e e2J g dg gsu 5 r ur rtl aa a y m cJ m t ttu2 i ie so ol m0 y nn nt 1 ote2 p a7 o.0 U nr, T f 1 o dt nHhh 8 g ie l ie or, e n ya t r v vn h lm a e eie ce l r sm sw k tC co s m e lM oo a a ea sn sa n nn essj d tdo suu p r o mm t i rhr nt oe hee e Q gs e r t nt rrhH 1r a eu Ca me w 2c t o a 0 mtt l S nhu t 2 eh ser e 0i suc n p p mag a fa r or n or eep la dp lr l otJ a oi H t wo on hsi en ian ea n a tt dPn g l tV t n r hh teeo hecpnu e at an u rr ec r ae e ti d o n
They use words such as ‘anticipate’, ‘estimate’, ‘expect’, Assumptions related to 2016-2020 outlook Tesaro acquisition and the Consumer Healthcare Joint
‘ win ot re dn sd a’, n‘w d i tll e’, r m‘p sro oje f c st im’, ‘ ip lala r n m’, e ‘ ab ne il nie gv e in’, c‘t oa nrg neet c’ t a ion nd w o it th he r I pn e o riu ot dli n 2in 0g 1 6th -2e 0e 2x 0pe , tc ht ea t Gio rn os u f po r h 2 as0 2 m0 a a dn ed c t eh re ta fi inv e-year V sue cn ctu er se s w fui lt lh y. Pfizer over this period are delivered
any discussion of future operating or financial assumptions about the healthcare sector, the different Material costs for investment in new product launches and
performance. In particular, these include statements markets in which the Group operates and the delivery of R&D have been factored into the expectations given. Given
relating to future actions, prospective products or product revenues and financial benefits from its current portfolio, the potential development options in the Group’s pipeline,
approvals, future performance or results of current and pipeline and restructuring programmes. the outlook may be affected by additional data-driven R&D
anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, the investment decisions. The expectations are given on a
outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings, For the Group specifically, over the period to 2020, GSK constant currency basis (2016-2020 outlook at 2015 CER).
dividend payments and financial results. Other than in expects further declines in sales of Seretide/Advair. The
accordance with its legal or regulatory obligations introduction of a generic alternative to Advair in the US Notice regarding limitations on
(including under the Market Abuse Regulations, the has been factored into the Group’s assessment of its Director Liability under English Law
UK Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency future performance. The Group assumes no premature Under the UK Companies Act 2006, a safe harbour limits
Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority), the Group loss of exclusivity for other key products over the period. the liability of Directors in respect of statements in and
u s e a d A d a c lot n nvn aio l osa le yy ud c ct kr n tee u e pa il it no omr m ad ast gs nd d ra e eo u t eek i sn intr r c de r ti et to so au s ss s n,n tt l, a e. h wn owa w A r meo tl h h h er c td eio ew oe c xci nb rs pt hi o pe th s cl e si rv lie eg l adt c .o e r .a cp ti rs nT aat euui l g ths oo b ir ul o en ce ya l n i n, as sr t dr ne to h we t e uoa h esu d eid a lsu a lp , e t rl s b a sd t er t s ehn hoa ls iu od aet f mhe r n u/n ao G o e cla e ndu r t ern w c l o fi ad t y e o alu n ,i e f n nkp c dho s ef a or to m iw hw n nnwr em a voia be t ey thr fa v ee od s mt e t t ri- goho or wl a,o ife n rvk c aso t e, e S h ro k f n a d eu n Eii rnn -s tt s eC hug eu a ar . l n e t t y T d t a T C f w l tioo htech i iiv o r ogtsqse mi hn sd aau u a es a tPe rp i ios us t on tp fiiis m, hot nd zlu i ty ano e h e o m e
t
o n re r o rx ,
a
sp f H fp a ip
r
ntt a eo le h eri l vo orc e a an ae n pt d l ne lsGa t rs oi h nw etst isf i cr o g apoo o e Ca u daonr u d r n t ys ost ep i h c o da n
r
’a pe es e nl i ss s v
c
dr upG ces , o
o
mr e ou is d nr o gx tm so u e md nc D tu c re s iu e sep et H c p s fn en’ c os t eto dt ts e r o afr o, mom ote l hn f tUrv
r
h ba H eo e t n fct eh on e o Cim a rle ru er r r 2 i oa l weve a a it c 0 me , cl e hJ k 1rie q or p in s c8i aa u ia at n he n ,r ail n n s t nr dnm pyr ii V o t dn u rtie (e oog h sp mor n vn e as gt t t ii a vh so ue oa t e ien rr en f
o
es rs frd
n
o, i a
s
rl o 9 U c r k m t D Soe nom 4 tn ia p r ro 1m) d et ai o,s 1w e c te pt rs 4 erh it tr ia ni o gs a ,eo E n g 1l r
i
n c cy snS f 5s m ao, ’g rt 2 b cn Rr ef l ia ir s tu t ps t eo ,at s o th oe pbm i t n n g 1a roul ta o e t 5it rtc ewh adt t3w ,m ne t r e ,o pte o
d
ehD ar ap u a r ne n pgi oo lnr t d d aeDe rr y o s gt sc o 2 i t r r ea at h t 7 1eo d hn ssi 5c rr i ed tsd 1s a t or to h
1
’ t w o p rh 7r oR 5e s a ie 3 4n se s r
t
1w e e op t uR iny 0s loo ne , 1t ct ur i oim 5o lnf ct ul t fd 0co ou( sbf r ln nno ib ue ive ne cer sce e
c
er lw ik o i va ll caa ui lr eah t e ob l si mmboi s c mlc ie vsn l oeoh e e. pn n m r r P s rt eee cto ie pa ss p oo oe g est ro mfh f i e s r op tate phet sh ra . re e 7g t
is
hs 5e eee
Forward-looking statements are subject to assumptions, have been made), no share repurchases by the Company, the Remuneration report, each of which have been drawn
inherent risks and uncertainties, many of which relate to and no change in the Group’s shareholdings in ViiV up and presented in accordance with and in reliance upon
factors that are beyond the Group’s control or precise Healthcare. The assumptions also assume no material English company law and the liabilities of the Directors in
estimate. The Group cautions investors that a number of changes in the macro-economic and healthcare connection with these reports shall be subject to the
important factors, including those in this document, could environment. The 2020 guidance and 2016-2020 outlook limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
cause actual results to differ materially from those have factored in all divestments and product exits since Website
expressed or implied in any forward-looking statement. 2015, including the divestment and exit of more than
130 non-core tail brands (£0.5 billion in annual sales) as GSK’s website www.gsk.com gives additional information
Such factors include, but are not limited to, those discussed announced on 26 July 2017 and the product divestments on the Group. Notwithstanding the references we make
under ‘Principal risks and uncertainties’ on pages 275 to planned in connection with the formation of the Consumer in this Annual Report to GSK’s website, none of the
287 of this Annual Report. Any forward-looking statements Healthcare Joint Venture with Pfizer. information made available on the website constitutes
made by or on behalf of the Group speak only as of the date part of this Annual Report or shall be deemed to be
they are made and are based upon the knowledge and incorporated by reference herein.
information available to the Directors on the date of this
Annual Report.Head Office and Registered Office
GlaxoSmithKline plc
980 Great West Road
Brentford, Middlesex TW8 9GS
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)20 8047 5000 Search for us here
Registered number: 3888792
www.gsk.com