Annual Report
2020We are a science-led global healthcare company
2020 performance summary
£34.1bn +1% £9.7bn +11%
AER AER
+3% +12%
Group turnover CER New and specialty medicines CER
£7.8bn +12% £8.9bn - 1%
AER AER
+15% +2%
Total operating profit CER Adjusted operating profit CER
115.5p +23% 115.9p - 6%
AER AER
+26% - 4%
Total earnings per share CER Adjusted earnings per share CER
9 80p 1st 2nd
major pipeline Dividend in the Access to in the pharmaceutical
approvals Medicine Index industry for Dow Jones
Sustainability Index
Contents
Strategic report
Our business model 01 Board roles and responsibilities 86 Financial statements of
Chairman’s statement 03 Board activity and principal decisions 87 GlaxoSmithKline plc prepared
CEO’s statement 04 Our purpose, values and culture 90 under UK GAAP 238
Financial performance 06 The Board’s approach to engagement 91
Investor information
Our long-term priorities 09 Board performance 94
Our culture 10 Board Committee information 96 Quarterly trend 244
Key performance indicators 11 Our Board Committee reports 97 Five-year record 249
Industry trends 12 Section 172 statement 108 Product development pipeline 255
Stakeholder engagement 16 Directors’ report 109 Products, competition and
Innovation 18 intellectual property 258
Remuneration report
Performance 28 Principal risks and uncertainties 261
Trust 33 Chairman’s annual statement 112 Share capital and share price 276
Risk management 43 Annual report on remuneration 114 Dividends 278
Group financial review 50 2020 Remuneration policy summary 133 Financial calendar 2021 279
Annual General Meeting 2021 279
Corporate Governance Financial statements
Tax information for shareholders 280
Chairman’s Governance statement 78 Directors’ statement of Shareholder services and contacts 282
The Board 80 responsibilities 140 US law and regulation 284
Corporate Executive Team 83 Independent Auditor’s report 142 Group companies 287
Board architecture 85 Financial statements 154 Glossary of terms 299
Notes to the financial statements 158
Cautionary statement
See the inside back cover of this document for the cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements.
Non-IFRS measures
We use a number of adjusted, non-IFRS, measures to report the performance of our business. Total reported results represent the Group's overall
performance under IFRS. Adjusted results, pro-forma growth rates and other non-IFRS measures may be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute
for or superior to, information presented in accordance with IFRS. Adjusted results and other non-IFRS measures are defined on pages 51 to 53 and
reconciliations to the nearest IFRS measures are on pages 64 and 68.Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Our business model
Every day, we help improve the health of millions of people around the
world by discovering, developing and manufacturing innovative medicines,
vaccines and consumer healthcare products.
Our operations span the value chain from identifying, Performance is delivered by investing effectively in our
researching, developing and testing ground breaking business and our people and executing competitively.
discoveries, to regulatory approval, manufacturing and Our ability to launch new products successfully and
commercialisation. We remained resilient through a grow sales from our existing portfolio is key to our
challenging year for the world by being agile and maintaining commercial success.
focus on our purpose and strategic long-term priorities.
Trust is also critical to our success. We are a responsible
Central to our success are our people: experts in company and commit to use our science and technology
science, technology, regulation, intellectual property and to address health needs, make our products affordable
commercialisation. We also collaborate with world-leading and available, and be a modern employer. Our 13 public
experts and form strategic partnerships to complement commitments support our Trust priority and cover a broad
our existing capabilities. range of environmental, social and governance (ESG) aspects.
The commitments are designed to help us respond to ESG
Our purpose and strategy
challenges and opportunities within our industry and society
Our purpose is to improve the quality of human life by
more broadly and contribute to many of the UN Sustainable
helping people do more, feel better and live longer. It guides
Development Goals particularly Goal 3: ensure healthy lives
all of our actions and is key to the delivery of our strategy
and promote wellbeing.
– to bring differentiated, high-quality and needed healthcare
products to as many people as possible, preventing and The value we create
treating disease and keeping people well with our scientific By delivering on our purpose, the greatest contribution we
and technical know-how and talented people. make is to improve the health of people around the world.
In 2020 that included delivering 2.2 billion packs of medicines,
Our long-term priorities
over 580 million vaccine doses and 3.8 billion consumer
Our priorities of Innovation, Performance and Trust are
healthcare products.
underpinned by our ambition to build a more purpose and
performance driven culture, aligned to our values – patient For our shareholders, as part of our capital allocation
focus, transparency, respect and integrity – and expectations framework, we invest in our business to provide shareholder
– courage, accountability, development and teamwork. returns. In 2020 we paid a dividend of 80p per share and
delivered £5.4 billion of free cash flow.
Innovation is critical to how we improve health and create
financial value. In 2020 Total R&D expenditure was £5.1 billion, We make a positive contribution to the communities in
which was 15.0% of turnover, and an increase of 12% (AER which we operate. We employ over 94,000 people across
and CER) from the previous year. On an Adjusted basis, R&D 96 countries and work directly with 36,000 suppliers.
expenditure was £4.6 billion (13.5% of turnover), 6% higher at In 2020 we paid £1.7 billion in corporation tax. We also
AER, 7% higher at CER, than in 2019. On a pro-forma basis, pay a significant amount of other business and employment
Adjusted R&D expenditure grew 6% CER compared with 2019. related taxes. We aim to be a modern employer and offer a
broad range of employee benefits, including preventative
In Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines, we focus on science
healthcare services, so that we are able to attract and
related to the immune system, human genetics and advanced
retain the best people.
technology. In Consumer Healthcare we leverage our scientific
expertise and deep consumer insights to create healthcare
products that meet consumer demands. As a research-based
healthcare company we rely on intellectual property protection
to help ensure a reasonable return on our investments so we can
continue to research and develop new and innovative medicines.
GSK Annual Report 2020 01Our business model continued
Preparing for the future
Creating two new companies During the year we achieved an important milestone with the
In early 2020, consistent with our strategic priorities and launch of our One Development organisation in R&D. This is
previous announcements, we started a two-year programme already enabling us to be even more effective in how we allocate
to prepare GSK for separation into two new leading companies: our budget, share technical and scientific expertise and deliver
New GSK, a new biopharma company, focused on specialty our pipeline, regardless of modality.
medicines and vaccines with an R&D approach focused on
Under the programme, we are seeking to improve our
the science related to the immune system, the use of human
capabilities and create efficiencies in our global support
genetics and new technologies; and a new leader in consumer
functions; continuing to simplify and focus our manufacturing
healthcare with category-leading power brands and innovation
network, ensuring our supply chain is ready to launch our new
based on science and consumer insights.
specialty medicines; and rationalising our portfolio through
We are on track for separation into new standalone Biopharma divestments.
and Consumer Healthcare companies in 2022.
For the new Consumer Healthcare company, this programme
The programme is using the unique catalyst of separation is supporting the building of key technology infrastructure and
to reset the capabilities and cost base for both companies, the expertise necessary to operate as a standalone company.
and help support delivery of the significant value creation
We believe that increased investment in our pipeline and new
opportunities we see in both New GSK and new Consumer
products, together with effective implementation of our two-year
Healthcare.
programme, will set each new company up with strong
For New GSK, we see a clear opportunity to drive a common foundations for future performance.
approach to R&D as the science related to the immune system
The financial benefits, costs and reporting associated with the
converges across both pharmaceuticals and vaccines.
programme are set out on pages 65 and 66.
Capital allocation
Capital allocation framework
Key priorities for capital
Invest in the business – R&D pipeline (including business
development)
– Vaccines capacity
Innovation – New products
Improved Shareholder returns – Dividends
Performance cash – Target 1.25x to 1.5x cover before
generation returning dividend to growth
Trust
Other M&A – Strict discipline on returns
02 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Chairman’s statement
2020 was an extraordinary and challenging year. We continued to
progress our strategy towards the creation of two new companies.
The COVID-19 pandemic dominated all aspects of life and The importance of businesses acting responsibly is central
business and GSK was no exception with impacts felt both to how an increasingly broad range of stakeholders view
operationally and among our people. In the face of huge companies. As part of this, global health has always been an
challenges we delivered our financial guidance for the year important element of GSK’s Trust priority and the Board was
and continued to make progress on our strategy. pleased to see that GSK once again topped the Access to
Medicine Index. Environmental, social and governance (ESG)
This is a testament to the leadership of Emma and her
are increasingly a focus for investors and other stakeholders
management team who have navigated the company through
and the Board fully supports the ambitious, new environmental
the year and ensured people across GSK remained focused
goals on climate and nature, and new inclusion and diversity
on our purpose and delivery of performance.
(I&D) targets, including on race and ethnicity, that management
Strategy have announced.
The Board was pleased to see the continued progress
The Board also supports management’s efforts to contribute
made against the company’s strategic goals in 2020. While
on COVID-19, including progression of potential vaccines
it is disappointing this has not yet translated into improved Total
and therapeutic treatments. As a company with a world leading
Shareholder Returns (TSR), the progress made reinforces the
infectious diseases portfolio and scientific expertise, GSK
Board’s confidence in the direction of the company and its
has an opportunity both to contribute meaningfully to the current
eventual split next year into two new companies in Biopharma
response to the pandemic and to work with global institutions
and Consumer Healthcare. This, combined with meaningful
to support better long-term preparedness planning.
improvements to operating performance from 2022 onwards,
provides significant opportunity to create value for shareholders. Board changes
The Board continues to adapt to support the company’s
Strengthening the Biopharma pipeline remains the Company's
priorities and ensure effective delivery. Specifically, a new
number one priority, and this continued through 2020 (despite
committee was established to oversee the separation and
the pandemic), with nine significant approvals, nine pivotal trial
transformation into two companies, and the Corporate
starts and a pipeline now consisting of 58 potential medicines
Responsibility Committee has taken on an expanded remit in
and vaccines focused on infectious diseases, oncology and
line with the greater focus on ESG. The Science Committee
immune-mediated diseases. A number of these assets could
continues to provide excellent oversight and direction for the
be significant launches over the next five years, with the
R&D strategy.
potential to change medical practice and provide material
value for the company. The Board’s Scientific Committee In May, Charles Bancroft joined the Board as a Non-Executive
is closely involved with Hal and his team on the pipeline. Director. Charlie will succeed Judy Lewent as Chair of the Audit
& Risk Committee on completion of the 2020 annual reporting
Operational and financial performance was resilient through
cycle. Judy steps down from the Board at the AGM and I would
the year. Importantly we are seeing evidence of significantly
like to thank her for her enormous contribution to GSK over
improved commercial capability and execution and this
10 years. I am also grateful to Lynn Elsenhans, who has agreed
is driving good expansion in our key growth products.
to stay on the Board for a further year, to ensure that there is
Management also maintained its strong focus on cost
continuity in the important work of the Corporate Responsibility
controls and cash generation. 2021 will see further pipeline
Committee.
investment and continued short-term disruption to our adult
vaccines business, both of which are reflected in our earnings Finally, I would like to thank all GSK’s employees, partners,
guidance for the year. shareholders and customers for their support during this
unprecedented year.
GSK’s capital allocation framework focuses on investing in
the R&D pipeline, new product launches, vaccine supply
capacity and disciplined business development.
In 2020, we paid 80p per share to shareholders and expect
to do the same in 2021. We intend to implement a new
distribution policy for dividends from 2022, the year we Sir Jonathan Symonds
will separate into two new companies. This will ensure both Chairman
businesses are competitive and have the right capital structure
with the capacity to invest to deliver growth and shareholder
returns. Overall, we expect that aggregate distributions for
GSK and across the two new companies will be lower than
the 80p per share currently paid.
GSK Annual Report 2020 03CEO’s statement
Innovation for healthcare impact is the heart of our purpose. In 2020
we made further significant progress, continuing to build a high-value
biopharma pipeline focused on vaccines and specialty medicines.
2020 was a remarkable year for us all. Despite the challenges Continued R&D delivery
it was also a year of progress for GSK and I’m proud of the way Innovation for healthcare impact is the heart of our purpose
the company has responded to support patients, healthcare and strengthening our R&D pipeline remains our first priority.
systems and our people while also delivering good financial In 2020 we made further significant progress, continuing
performance and advancing our strategic transformation. to build a high-value biopharma pipeline focused on vaccines
and speciality medicines, harnessing the science related
This progress means we have high confidence in our ability
to the immune system, the use of human genetics and
to launch new competitive, standalone Biopharma and
advanced technologies.
Consumer Healthcare companies in 2022 that can achieve
meaningful global impact to health and have the opportunity We had nine major approvals in 2020 for medicines in
to create significant value for shareholders. respiratory, oncology, HIV and immuno-inflammation –
a remarkable achievement. This included Zejula’s expanded
Growth in 2020 sales
label in ovarian cancer, making it potentially available to
Group sales grew 1% at actual exchange rates (AER)
more women, and Cabenuva, the world’s first long-acting
and 3% at constant exchange rates (CER) to £34 billion.
injectable for the treatment of HIV which allows patients
This is a testament to the increased focus we have continued
to have 12 injections a year instead of taking daily pills.
to place on improving commercial execution.
Nine pivotal trials were started in the year, including for a
New and Speciality products drove growth with sales of vaccine candidate for RSV – a virus with a high unmet need
£9.7 billion, up 11% AER and 12% CER. This group of and which causes thousands of deaths and hospitalisations
innovative products now account for more than half of a year. If successful, this vaccine could play a significant role
pharmaceutical sales. in easing this burden. We will start other late stage trials this
In respiratory we saw strong growth for Nucala, our biologic year including for a new long-acting asthma medicine which,
for asthma and Trelegy our 3-in-1 inhaler for asthma and COPD. if successful, would be given every six months – a further
In HIV, new two-drug regimens Dovato and Juluca more than testament to how we put patients at the heart of our R&D.
doubled sales to £869 million while our oncology portfolio Overall, we now have more than 20 assets in late stage
continued to grow with Zejula, for ovarian cancer, significantly development, many of which could be transformational for
growing market share, and the launch of Blenrep, for heavily patients. These products could all launch by 2026 and we
pre-treated multiple myeloma patients. Shingrix, our successful believe more than 10, if data is positive, have the potential
vaccine for shingles, continued to grow and had sales of to be very significant commercially.
£2 billion, despite the significant disruption to adult
Last year we also executed more than 20 business development
vaccinations from the COVID-19 pandemic. We also saw
deals, strengthening our capabilities with the acquisition of new
a strong Consumer Health performance with sales up 4%
antibody, mRNA and genetic platforms and technologies.
CER on a pro-forma basis, excluding brands divested and
under review, reflecting the underlying strength of brands We continue to use our science to contribute to the COVID-19
across our portfolio. response on multiple fronts. We were of course disappointed
with the delay to our vaccine being developed with Sanofi,
This strong performance in our growth drivers and disciplined
but we continue to progress this along with others as well as
cost control allowed us to deliver our guidance for the year,
in-house and externally-partnered therapeutics. Importantly,
which was set before the pandemic. Total earnings per share
we are looking ahead to the potential need for next generation
were 115.5p, up 23% AER, up 26% CER while Adjusted
COVID-19 vaccines to use with emerging variants or as a
earnings per share were 115.9p, down 6% AER and down
booster and we are delighted with our recent collaboration
4% CER.
with CureVac to research and develop several mRNA vaccines,
We had strong cash generation, with free cash flow of including for COVID-19.
£5.4 billion. We declared a dividend of 80p per share
and expect to pay the same again in 2021.
04 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
CEO's statement continued
Separation preparation We have continued to work with partners on other long-term
We remain firmly on track with our intention to separate urgent global health needs. Following positive data for our
into two new, exciting companies next year – a New GSK in single dose treatment for the P. vivax strain of malaria, we
Biopharma and a new world leader in Consumer Healthcare. have filed alongside our partners Medicines for Malaria Venture
(MMV) for its use in children – a population disproportionately
We have met all our first year targets for the separation
affected by the disease and we have licensed our TB candidate
programme and the integration of the Consumer JV is
vaccine to the Bill & Melinda Gates Research Institute for its
substantially complete. As the second year of our two-year
continued development and potential use in low-income
transformation, 2021 will see further investment in our pipeline
countries with high TB burdens. I am pleased that our
and behind successfully launching new products to sustain our
commitment to this important work has been recognised
long-term competitive growth. Short-term disruption from the
again by the Access to Medicines Index, which we have
pandemic to our vaccines business is reflected in the financial
topped for the seventh time in a row.
guidance we have set out for 2021. We continue to expect a
meaningful improvement in performance from 2022 onwards. Our people and culture
Our people have shown remarkable dedication, agility and
Building Trust
resilience through the year in unprecedented circumstances.
Building trust with all our stakeholders – in addition to delivering
This has included the thousands of employees who have
sustainable financial returns – is critical. The pandemic has
continued to work in our manufacturing facilities throughout
highlighted the need for businesses to operate in a responsible
the pandemic to ensure our vital medicines, vaccines and
way and, for life sciences companies, to ensure there is
consumer products continued to reach patients and consumers.
widespread access to medicines.
Their efforts have meant that despite the challenges we enter
Investor interest in environmental, social and governance (ESG)
2021 with our pipeline stronger, our commercial execution
issues has increased significantly over the last year. We believe
sharper and our confidence higher in our ability to deliver
in the need to transition to a net zero economy and we want
sustainable long-term growth post separation.
to play our part in protecting and restoring people’s and the
planet’s health. In November we set ambitious, industry leading I want to thank our fantastic people and our partners, for
environmental targets to have a net-zero impact on climate without them we would not succeed and we count on them
change and net-positive impact on nature by 2030. now as we prepare for our exciting future.
GSK firmly believes in the value of inclusion and diversity and
we have set aspirational targets for the proportion of ethnically
diverse leaders at VP level and above in the US and UK by
2025 and reset our gender target, aiming to further increase
female representation at VP level and above globally by 2025.
We are also focusing on improving diversity in clinical trials Emma Walmsley
to ensure that they represent – and our medicines are safe Chief Executive Officer
and effective in – real-world patient communities.
GSK Annual Report 2020 05Financial performance
Operating performance – 2020 Reported Consumer Healthcare sales grew 12% AER and
14% CER to £10,033 million for the full year, largely driven
Turnover
by the inclusion of the Pfizer portfolio, partly offset by brands
2020
divested/under review. On a pro-forma basis, sales declined
*Pro-forma
Growth Growth growth 2% CER, but grew 4% CER excluding brands divested/under
£m £% CER% CER% review, reflecting the underlying strength of brands across the
Pharmaceuticals 17,056 (3) (1) (1)
portfolio and categories, strong growth in e-commerce, and
Vaccines 6,982 (2) (1) (1)
successful execution meeting evolving consumer demand as
Consumer Healthcare 10,033 12 14 (2)
a result of the pandemic.
34,071 1 3 (2)
Corporate and other Operating profit
unallocated turnover 28 Total operating profit was £7,783 million in 2020 compared with
Group turnover 34,099 1 3 (2) £6,961 million in 2019. The total operating margin was 22.8%.
This reflected the profit on disposal of the Horlicks and other
Financial results Consumer Healthcare brands and resultant sale of shares in
2020 Hindustan Unilever as well as increased income from asset
*Pro-forma disposals. This was partly offset by higher re-measurement
Growth growth charges on the contingent consideration liabilities.
£m £% CER% CER%
Turnover 34,099 1 3 (2) Adjusted operating profit was £8,906 million, 1% lower than
Total operating profit 7,783 12 15 2019 at AER and 2% higher at CER on a turnover increase
Total earnings per share 115.5p 23 26 of 3% CER. Pro-forma adjusted operating profit declined 3%.
Adjusted operating profit 8,906 (1) 2 (3) This primarily reflected the adverse impact from the reduction
Adjusted earnings per in sales in Vaccines as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic,
share 115.9p (6) (4)
investment in R&D, and investments in promotional product
Net cash from operating
support, particularly for new launches in Vaccines, HIV and
activities 8,441 5
Respiratory. This was partly offset by effective cost control,
Free cash flow 5,406 7
including reduced promotional and variable spending across
* Pro-forma CER growth rates are calculated as if the equivalent seven
all three businesses as a result of the COVID-19 lockdowns
months of Pfizer consumer healthcare business results, as reported
by Pfizer, were included in the comparative period of 2019. Please see and the continuing benefit of restructuring in Pharmaceuticals
page 53 for more information. and Consumer Healthcare.
Earnings per share
Turnover
Total EPS was 115.5p, compared with 93.9p in 2019. The
Strong sales performance from key growth drivers in HIV,
increase in EPS primarily reflected the net profit on disposal
Respiratory, Oncology and Consumer Healthcare offset
of Horlicks and other Consumer Healthcare brands as well as
disruption from COVID-19 to adult vaccinations.
increased income from asset disposals, partly offset by higher
Group turnover was £34,099 million in the year, up 1% AER, re-measurement charges on the contingent consideration
3% CER. On a pro-forma basis, Group turnover was down liabilities, higher major restructuring charges and a one-off
2% CER, but up 1% at CER excluding the impact of divestments benefit in 2019 from increased share of after tax profits of
in Vaccines and brands divested or under review in Consumer the associate Innoviva.
Healthcare.
Adjusted EPS was 115.9p compared with 123.9p in 2019,
Pharmaceuticals turnover in the year was £17,056 million, down down 6% AER, 4% CER, on a 2% CER increase in Adjusted
3% AER, 1% CER. Respiratory sales were up 22% AER, 23% operating profit. The reduction primarily resulted from a higher
CER, to £3,749 million, on growth of Trelegy, Nucala and Relvar/ non-controlling interest allocation of Consumer Healthcare
Breo. HIV sales were flat at AER, up 1% CER, to £4,876 million, profits, higher investment in R&D and reduced share of after
with growth in Juluca and Dovato partly offset by declines in tax profits of associates resulting from a non-recurring income
Tivicay and Triumeq. Sales of Established Pharmaceuticals tax benefit in Innoviva.
declined 16% AER, 15% CER to £7,332 million.
Cash flow
Vaccines turnover declined 2% AER, 1% CER to £6,982 The net cash inflow from operating activities for the year
million, primarily driven by the adverse impact of the COVID-19 was £8,441 million (2019 – £8,020 million). Free cash flow
pandemic on Hepatitis vaccines, DTPa-containing vaccines, was £5,406 million for the year (2019 – £5,073 million).
Synflorix and Bexsero, together with the divestment of Rabipur The increase in free cash flow primarily reflected increased
and Encepur. This decline was partly offset by higher sales of proceeds from disposal of intangible assets, beneficial timing
Influenza vaccines across all regions and by Shingrix growth of payments for returns and rebates, reduced legal payments
in Europe, China and the US together with a strong and improved operating profits, partly offset by higher dividends
performance from Cervarix in China. to non-controlling interests, increase in trade receivables,
increased tax payments including tax on disposals and adverse
exchange impacts.
06 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Financial performance continued
Total and Adjusted results
Total reported results represent the Group’s overall GSK encourages investors and analysts not to rely on any
performance. single financial measure but to review GSK’s Annual Reports,
including the financial statements and notes, in their entirety.
GSK uses a number of Adjusted, non-IFRS, measures to report
the performance of its business. Adjusted results and other GSK is undertaking a number of Board-approved Major
non-IFRS measures may be considered in addition to, but restructuring programmes in response to significant changes
not as a substitute for or superior to, information presented in the Group’s trading environment or overall strategy, or
in accordance with IFRS. See page 51 for a fuller definition. following material acquisitions. Costs, both cash and non-cash,
of these programmes are provided for as individual elements
GSK believes that Adjusted results, when considered
are approved and meet the accounting recognition criteria.
together with Total results, provide investors, analysts and
other stakeholders with helpful complementary information As a result, charges may be incurred over a number of years
to understand better the financial performance and position following the initiation of a Major restructuring programme.
of the Group from period to period, and allow the Group’s
GSK’s reported results for the year ended 31 December 2019
performance to be more easily compared against the majority
included five months of results of the former Pfizer consumer
of its peer companies. These measures are also used by
healthcare business compared with twelve months in 2020.
management for planning and reporting purposes. They may
Pro-forma growth rates at CER have been calculated for 2020
not be directly comparable with similarly described measures
including the equivalent seven months of results for the period
used by other companies.
to 31 July 2019 of the former Pfizer consumer healthcare
business, as more fully described on page 53.
Divestments,
Intangible Intangible significant
Total asset asset Major Transaction- legal and Separation Adjusted
Adjusting items results amortisation impairment restructuring related other items costs results
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 34,099 34,099
Cost of sales (11,704) 699 31 667 116 (10,191)
Gross profit 22,395 699 31 667 116 23,908
Selling, general and administration (11,456) 1 18 659 (23) 16 68 (10,717)
Research and development (5,098) 75 214 206 (4,603)
Royalty income 318 318
Other operating income/(expense) 1,624 1,215 (2,839) –
Operating profit 7,783 775 263 1,532 1,308 (2,823) 68 8,906
Net finance costs (848) 2 2 (844)
Share of after-tax profits of associates
and joint ventures 33 33
Profit before taxation 6,968 775 263 1,534 1,308 (2,821) 68 8,095
Taxation (580) (150) (47) (292) (229) 17 (14) (1,295)
Tax rate 8.3% 16.0%
Profit after taxation 6,388 625 216 1,242 1,079 (2,804) 54 6,800
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 639 392 1,031
Profit attributable to shareholders 5,749 625 216 1,242 687 (2,804) 54 5,769
Earnings per share 115.5p 12.6p 4.4p 25.0p 13.8p (56.5)p 1.1p 115.9p
Intangible asset amortisation and impairment Divestments, significant legal and other items
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets and goodwill Proceeds and costs of disposals of associates, products
excludes computer software. and businesses; significant legal charges (net of insurance
recoveries) and expenses on the settlement of litigation and
Major restructuring
government investigations; other operating income other
Major restructuring costs, which include impairments of tangible
than royalty income, and other items.
assets and computer software (under specific Board-approved
programmes that are structural, of a significant scale and where Separation costs
the costs of individual or related projects exceed £25 million), Additional costs to prepare Consumer Healthcare for
including integration costs following material acquisitions. separation.
Transaction-related
Transaction-related accounting or other adjustments related
to significant acquisitions.
GSK Annual Report 2020 07Financial performance continued
Adjusted results
2020 2019
Pro-forma
% of % of Growth growth
£m turnover £m turnover £% CER% CER%
Turnover 34,099 100 33,754 100 1 3 (2)
Cost of sales (10,191) (29.9) (10,079) (29.9) 1 2 (3)
Gross profit 23,908 70.1 23,675 70.1 1 3 (1)
Selling, general and administration (10,717) (31.4) (10,715) (31.7) – 2 (3)
Research and development (4,603) (13.5) (4,339) (12.9) 6 7 6
Royalty income 318 0.9 351 1.1 (9) (9) (9)
Operating profit 8,906 26.1 8,972 26.6 (1) 2 (3)
Net finance costs (844) (810)
Share of after-tax profits of associates and joint ventures 33 74
Profit before taxation 8,095 8,236 (2) 1
Taxation (1,295) (1,318)
Tax rate 16.0% 16.0%
Profit after taxation 6,800 6,918 (2) 1
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 1,031 787
Profit attributable to shareholders 5,769 6,131
Earnings per share 115.9p 123.9p (6) (4)
How we performed Operating profit
Adjusted operating profit was £8,906 million, 1% lower than
Cost of sales
2019 at AER and 2% higher at CER on a turnover increase
Adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of turnover was 29.9%,
of 3% CER. The Adjusted operating margin of 26.1% was
flat at AER, but 0.1 percentage points lower at CER compared
0.5 percentage points lower at AER, and 0.2 percentage points
with 2019. On a pro-forma basis, Adjusted cost of sales as
lower on a CER basis than in 2019. On a pro-forma basis,
a percentage of turnover was 29.9%, 0.3 percentage points
Adjusted operating profit was 3% lower at CER on a turnover
lower at CER, compared with 2019. This reflected a more
decrease of 2% at CER. The Adjusted pro-forma operating
favourable product mix in Pharmaceuticals and a further
margin of 26.1% was 0.4 percentage points lower on a CER
contribution from restructuring and integration savings, partly
basis than in 2019.
offset by adverse product mix in Vaccines and continued
adverse pricing pressure in Pharmaceuticals. The reduction in pro-forma Adjusted operating profit reflects
the adverse impact from the reduction in sales in Vaccines,
Selling, general and administration
investment in R&D, continuing price pressure, and investments
Adjusted SG&A costs as a percentage of turnover were 31.4%,
in promotional product support, particularly for new launches.
0.3 percentage points lower at AER than in 2019 and 0.3
This was offset by reduced promotional and variable spending,
percentage points lower on a CER basis. On a pro-forma basis,
a one-off benefit from restructuring of post-retirement benefits
Adjusted SG&A costs as a percentage of turnover were 31.4%,
and the continuing benefit of restructuring and the tight control
0.4 percentage points lower at CER, compared with 2019.
of ongoing costs.
The growth in Adjusted SG&A costs, although flat at AER,
Tax
grew 2% CER. On a pro-forma basis costs reduced 3% CER
Tax on Adjusted profit amounted to £1,295 million and
and reflected the benefits from restructuring including one-off
represented an effective Adjusted tax rate of 16.0% (2019 –
benefits from restructuring of post-retirement benefits, reduced
16.0%), reflecting the impact of the settlement of a number
variable spending across all three businesses and the tight
of open issues with tax authorities and the cancellation by the
control of ongoing costs, partly offset by increased investment
UK Government of a reduction in the UK corporation tax rate.
in promotional product support.
Non-controlling interests
Research and development
The allocation of Adjusted earnings to non-controlling interests
Adjusted R&D expenditure was £4,603 million (13.5% of
amounted to £1,031 million (2019 – £787 million). The increase
turnover), 6% higher at AER, 7% higher at CER than in 2019.
in allocation primarily reflected an increased allocation of
On a pro-forma basis, Adjusted R&D expenditure grew 6%
Consumer Healthcare profits.
CER, primarily driven by the significant increase in investment
Earnings per share
in Oncology, as well as progression of COVID-19 treatment
Adjusted EPS was 115.9p compared with 123.9p in 2019,
programmes. This has been partly offset by a reduction in
down 6% AER, 4% CER, on a 2% CER increase in Adjusted
investment in research and several Specialty and Primary
operating profit. The reduction primarily resulted from a higher
Care programmes as well as efficiency savings from the
non-controlling interest allocation of Consumer Healthcare
implementation of the Separation Preparation restructuring
profits and reduced share of after tax profits of associates
programme and reductions in variable spending.
resulting from a non-recurring income tax benefit in Innoviva.
08 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Our long-term priorities
We believe GSK’s long-term priorities will create lasting value for our patients,
consumers and shareholders. In 2020, despite a very challenging operating
environment, we delivered a resilient performance and our strategic objectives
remain on track.
Innovation Performance Trust
We invest in scientific and technical We deliver growth by investing We are a responsible company.
excellence to develop and launch effectively in our business, We commit to use our science
a pipeline of new products that developing our people and and technology to address health
meet the needs of our patients, executing competitively. needs, make our products
payers and consumers. affordable and available and
be a modern employer.
2020 objectives 2020 objectives 2020 objectives
– Deliver Innovation sales with excellent – Prioritise spending to deliver growth – Continue to deliver on-time, in-full supply
commercial, R&D and supply chain and return on investment of our products
execution – Successful Consumer Healthcare JV – Build reputation with a focus on Innovation
– Further accelerate and strengthen pipeline integration, including driving growth – Deliver progress on Trust commitments
with six potential approvals expected and delivering synergies
– Deliver further capability building in
specialty Pharmaceuticals
– Deliver two-year programme to prepare
GSK for separation into two new companies
Progress Progress Progress
– Strong performance from new innovations – Strong sales performance from key growth – Sector leading positions in ESG indices
including Shingrix, Trelegy, Juluca, Dovato drivers in HIV, Respiratory, Oncology and including 1st in the Access to Medicine
and Zejula Consumer Healthcare, reflecting our Index
– Nine major regulatory approvals, including resource focus on therapy areas, markets – Despite the pandemic, we have been
in HIV, Oncology and Respiratory and brands with greatest potential able to maintain the supply of our
– Extended indications across portfolio, – Advanced Consumer Healthcare pharmaceutical, vaccine and consumer
including for Shingrix, Bexsero, Trelegy integration; on track for £500 million healthcare products and continue
Ellipta and Benlysta annual cost savings by 2022 and manufacturing without significant disruption
– Accelerated pipeline with nine pivotal £1.1 billion divestment proceeds achieved – FDA and EMA approved paediatric
study starts and now have over 20 assets – Advanced specialty medicine capabilities dolutegravir
in late-stage development with over 500 new hires in Oncology – Joined global efforts to develop COVID-19
– Established multiple partnerships to – Programme to separate GSK into two solutions and supported partners
develop COVID-19 solutions, including with leading businesses remains on track – Set ambitious new environmental
CureVac to develop next generation mRNA sustainability goals in climate and nature
COVID vaccines and Vir Biotechnology for – Introduced all-employee mandatory
therapeutic antibody treatments inclusion and diversity training
– Strengthened capabilities with more than
20 business development deals
– 28 first-market launches for Consumer
Healthcare
2021 priority objectives 2021 priority objectives 2021 priority objectives
– Deliver Innovation sales with excellent – Continue to prioritise spending to deliver – Continue to deliver on-time, in-full supply
commercial, R&D and supply chain growth and return on investment of our products
execution in Oncology, HIV and Vaccines – Continue to deliver two-year programme – Improve manager capability to motivate,
– Accelerate and strengthen pipeline with to prepare GSK for separation into two focus, develop and care for people
robust commercial input, including new leading companies – Continue to deliver progress on Trust
business development – Build a stronger, more diverse workforce commitments
for two new leading companies
Culture
As we move towards the creation of two new leading companies, we continue to focus on being more performance driven, while remaining firmly
purpose led and values based. We track our cultural change with a range of indicators and the Board receives regular updates. See pages 90 and 102.
Principal risks
Our principal risks are: patient safety; product quality; financial controls and reporting; anti-bribery and corruption; commercial practices and pricing;
non-promotional engagement; privacy; research practices; environment, health and safety; environmental sustainability; information security; supply
continuity; and transformation. Our risk management framework is designed to support our long-term priorities. See pages 43 to 45 and 261 to 275.
GSK Annual Report 2020 09Our culture
We are building a stronger purpose and performance culture, to
inspire our people and power delivery of our long-term priorities.
Our people are inspired by our purpose – to help people Living and working through a pandemic, while also making
do more, feel better, live longer. Our Purpose and Performance progress in our transformation programme – Future Ready
culture is underpinned by our values of Patient Focus, Respect, – brought change and personal challenges for some of our
Transparency and Integrity. As we move towards the creation employees. To support them through this period, we ensured
of two new leading companies, it is critical for us to focus that our employee health and wellbeing services were fully
on being more performance driven, while remaining firmly accessible (see page 38).
purpose led and values based.
The pandemic meant we also had to be much more flexible in
We track our cultural change with a range of indicators how we got our work done. To support this, we implemented
focused on embedding a culture that prioritises Innovation; new principles for employees who carry out office-based work;
our competitive edge, speed and agility to deliver growth to do that work in a place and in a way that enables them to
orientated Performance; and employee Trust, including perform at their best, based on their role, team, and personal
pride in our purpose, embedding our values and expectations circumstances. The principles – Performance with Choice –
(Accountability, Courage, Development, Teamwork) and are anchored in driving individual and collective performance,
progress as a Modern Employer. while creating more flexibility about where and how those
employees perform their work.
As we do this, we check the health of our culture with a range
of indicators. We are making good progress. In what has been In addition, as a company that has respect for people at its
a challenging year for everyone, our survey saw the highest core and takes pride in providing access to our medicines,
response rate to date (85%), and the main measure of culture vaccines and consumer products to all, we have an opportunity
– employee engagement – reported the highest scores (84%) and an obligation to build an inclusive culture internally and
since inception of the survey in 2012, an increase of 6% since to be a force for good in improving diversity and inclusion
our last survey in 2019. There were improvements across all in society. In 2020 we focused on building a more inclusive
Innovation scores (up on average by 5%), with Performance culture, including inclusion training for all employees alongside
scores showing the largest overall improvements across all our work to evolve our policies, processes and practices.
the questions (up on average by 7%). Scores on employee We also set new aspirational targets for gender and for
Trust also scored strongly (up on average by 4%). race and ethnicity (see page 37).
The way we have been working through the COVID-19 Our leaders have played a crucial role and we know that
pandemic has led to positive changes in our culture. During how they role-model culture is one of the biggest drivers of
2020, close to three quarters of our employees moved to remote culture change. We continue to build the expertise in our senior
working, while around a quarter have continued to work at our leaders, with 13% new appointments to our top 125 leaders in
essential sites ensuring our medicines, vaccines and everyday 2020. The effectiveness of our global manager population is
healthcare products reached the millions of patients and measured through our annual One80 feedback tool (see page
consumers who needed them. Through this period, we have 38) and this year we saw continued improvements in manager
seen a deeper connection to our purpose, greater focus on scores, with 80% of our managers being seen as highly
the work that matters most to deliver our priorities, dynamic effective by the people they manage.
teams moving at pace with clear accountabilities, and greater
connectivity and care for each other. We will continue to focus
on these positives throughout 2021 as part of our culture
ambition for the long term.
10 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Key performance indicators
We track progress against our long-term priorities with ten operating
key performance indicators. These measure our performance at
a Group level and across our three businesses.
Our operating key performance indicators (KPIs) are reviewed We track all of our operating KPIs internally, and below we
regularly by our Corporate Executive Team and the Board. provide performance data for those that we report externally.
Our employees are updated on our progress against them every Due to commercial sensitivities we do not publish data for all
quarter. Our performance system aligns employees’ bonuses operating KPIs (indicated as n/r). We use a number of adjusted,
with a relevant subset of our ten indicators and the remuneration non-International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)
policy used to reward the performance of our executives also measures to report our business performance, as described
includes measures linked to our KPIs (see pages 113, 119 on pages 51 to 53. These include Adjusted results, free cash
and 121). flow and CER growth rates.
Innovation
2020 2019 2018
Innovation sales R
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines – sales of products launched in the last five years £4.1bn £3.0bna £1.1bna
Consumer Healthcare – sales from products which are new to a market in the last
three years as a % of total sales 11% 12% 11%
Pipeline value and progress – the value of products in our pipeline and R&D
milestones achieved n/r n/r n/r
Performance
2020 2019 2018
Group turnover R – up 1% AER, 3% CER £34.1bn £33.8bn £30.8bn
Profit R
Total operating profit – up 12% AER, 15% CER £7.8bn £7.0bn £5.5bn
Adjusted operating profit – down 1% AER, up 2% CER £8.9bn £9.0bn £8.7bn
Total operating margin 22.8% 20.6% 17.8%
Adjusted operating margin 26.1% 26.6% 28.4%
Free cash flow R – up 7% £5.4bn £5.1bn £5.7bn
Market share – our market share in relation to our competitors n/r n/r n/r
Top talent and succession plans for key roles – our most talented employees
in key roles with succession plans in place n/r n/r n/r
Trust
2020 2019 2018
Employee feedback – employee engagement scores from our global employee survey 84% 78% 78%
Supply service level – percentage of orders delivered on-time, in-full n/r n/r n/r
Corporate reputation – reputation index among stakeholders and informed public
measured globally and in top 13 markets n/r n/r n/r
R Linked to Executive LTI awards and bonus, see pages 113, 119 and 121.
a Comparative information reflects sales of those products that meet the definition for 2020.
n/r Not reported externally due to commercial sensitivities.
GSK Annual Report 2020 11Industry trends
We are operating in a dynamic environment, shaped by fast-changing
and interdependent global trends, many of which were accelerated
by the COVID-19 pandemic. We continue to respond to this changing
environment by advancing our strategy and long-term priorities.
The global economy was significantly affected by the COVID-19 The COVID-19 pandemic has underlined the centrality of
pandemic during the year and economic uncertainty has health to the security, stability and prosperity of nations and
continued. In January 2020 the global economy was forecast the need to strengthen approaches to preventing, identifying
to grow by 3.3% but the impact of COVID-19 containment and managing future pandemics. Already, the industry is
measures stalled the economies of many countries and the engaging with key partners to consider how to work collectively
global economy is now facing a deep recession.1 to develop sustainable solutions that will enhance pandemic
preparedness and strengthen global health security overall.
Investment in COVID-19 solutions, healthcare systems
and economic support during national lockdowns will have
The global healthcare market
a significant long-term effect on the global economy and
government finances. This fiscal challenge is likely to have a The global healthcare market has grown during the year, with
lasting impact on national healthcare budgets and, in markets worldwide pharmaceutical sales totalling £869 billion from
with out-of-pocket patient payments, personal budgets too. September 2019-2020, up 4%. North America remains the
The pandemic has put the healthcare industry centre stage largest pharmaceutical market with a 47% share of global sales,
and demonstrated its vital role as a powerful force for good, with Europe representing 23%. China is the second largest
in discovering, developing and supplying essential medicines, individual country for pharmaceutical sales, representing
vaccines and consumer healthcare products. The need for 7.6% of global sales.2 Global vaccine sales remained flat
rapid solutions to the pandemic prompted unprecedented at approximately £23.8 billion in 2020. The global consumer
technological acceleration and collaboration between healthcare market is estimated to be valued at more than
companies, governments, regulators and international £140 billion.3
organisations to mobilise R&D, deliver novel products, speed Prescription medicines and consumer products proved largely
up regulatory processes and scale up manufacturing capacity. resilient to the economic effects of the pandemic. Common
As COVID-19 dominated people’s lives, discussions about trends of stockpiling, the issuing of long-term prescriptions
safe and effective innovation, particularly around vaccines, and dramatic increases in purchasing, were followed by falls
rose high on the public agenda. The industry united around in demand driven by fewer consultations during lockdowns.
a common commitment to apply the highest levels of rigour The vaccines market was, however, impacted significantly,
and safety standards to potential COVID-19-related solutions. as global vaccination rates fell sharply as patients were unable
The pandemic also raised questions around the affordability to visit healthcare professionals. Rates recovered as lockdowns
of, and equality of access to, healthcare with demands that, eased in the middle of the year but declined again as pandemic
when licensed, COVID-19 vaccines and medicines became conditions worsened. Some commentators predict that
widely available. Multi-stakeholder organisations such as economic recession will suppress pharmaceutical growth
COVAX were critical in helping to navigate such challenges potential in countries where private funds underpin a significant
as governments looked to secure access for their own citizens proportion of healthcare costs.4
as well as ensuring global access. Pressure for governments
Global trends: opportunities and challenges
to seek domestic healthcare supply chains, particularly for
COVID-19 solutions, became a pressing issue as the disruption Changing demographics
of international logistics systems impacted security of supply. Demographic change is increasing demand for preventive
and therapeutic healthcare products.
The global population is predicted to grow to 8.5 billion
by 2030, up from an estimated 7.7 billion in 2019.5 Virtually
all countries are experiencing population ageing, with the
proportion of those over 65 projected to double between
1 IMF Annual Report 2020 2019 and 2050.6 More people are living in cities and becoming
2 IQVIA data affluent, particularly in China which is experiencing the world’s
3 Internal data fastest-ever expansion of the middle class, and where by 2027
4 IQVIA, The Impact of COVID-19 on Global Pharmaceutical Growth, 1.2 billion people are projected to be middle class – one quarter
June 2020 of the world’s total.7
5 United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs, World
Population Prospects 2019
6 United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs, World
Population Ageing 2019
7 Brookings, China’s influence on the global middle class, October 2020
12 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Industry trends continued
Our response GSK moved swiftly to join global efforts against the COVID-19
These factors are all contributing to rising demand for pandemic. Company-wide, we used our science, technology,
healthcare – including in our areas of focus, such as vaccines portfolio and resources where we could have the biggest
and specialty medicines as well as general medicines – and to impact to progress promising vaccines and medicines that
pressure on healthcare systems to restrain growth in spending. could be produced at scale to prevent and treat the virus
In line with our Innovation priority we are investing in developing (see page 24 for more details).
and launching a pipeline of new products that meet the
Pricing and access
changing needs of patients, payers and consumers (see pages
The pricing of healthcare products and the increasing pressure
18 to 25). Our global health and pricing strategies ensure that
to fund high-cost, innovative therapies continue to attract
our products serve a broad demographic (see pages 34 to 35).
significant attention from governments and the public.
Advances in science and technology Scrutiny on access to innovation during the pandemic
Rapid advances in innovative science and technology are has been particularly intense.
transforming the sector. New advances in functional genomics,
Governments have long sought to control healthcare
such as CRISPR, are changing what is possible in drug
expenditure, particularly around pharmaceuticals. Growing
discovery and will enable researchers to pinpoint novel targets
populations, increased comorbidities and improved screening
with a higher probability of success. Cell therapy technologies,
have escalated demand for medicines, vaccines and consumer
where cells become living medicines, are altering the definition
healthcare products. In parallel, new innovative medicines are
and profile of medicine. The scale of data from genetic libraries
more complex but better at targeting diseases.
and genomics requires artificial intelligence (AI) to interpret, with
machine learning helping to design new experiments to increase Governments and payers are increasingly cooperating across
the likelihood of success. The growth in data is also improving jurisdictions, with ever more restrictive measures to control
the healthcare ecosystem and helping to build a virtuous cycle growth in pharmaceutical expenditure. In some cases, this has
of data, technology and R&D. Regulators and purchasers can led to more reimbursement hurdles, with consequent delays to
harness these technologies to track product effectiveness, making innovative medicines and vaccines available to patients.
while researchers can build a better understanding of genetics In the US, controlling the pandemic, stimulating the economy
and disease through consumer use of digital tools to manage and addressing environmental issues are expected to be some
their health and determine their genetic profiles. of the Biden administration’s key priorities. The administration
COVID-19 has demonstrated how advanced technology is plans to expand the federal government’s role in the COVID-19
accelerating and enabling innovation for our entire industry, response by proposing a major stimulus bill, a nationwide
with unprecedented government funding and collaborations testing and vaccine distribution strategy and rejoining the World
between companies and research institutes. This has been Health Organization. In healthcare, the Biden administration is
especially true for the rapid acceleration of vaccine innovation, expected to seek to expand access through the Affordable Care
including mRNA technology, which enables specific proteins, Act comprehensive reforms, including for prescription drugs,
or antigens, to be produced by the body’s own cells, enabling but these are unlikely to be implemented in the short term.
the human immune system to prevent or fight disease. This There remains intense public scrutiny of the cost of prescription
advance in vaccine innovation is likely to have implications medicines for American citizens, and the Biden administration
beyond the current pandemic, resulting in a new range of is expected to pay attention to this over the course of its term.
highly innovative technologies that mark a step change in Prior to leaving office, the Trump administration had announced
how we are able to fight infectious disease. several regulatory changes to address healthcare costs, most
Our response notably the restructuring of pharmaceutical rebates to benefit
The application of advanced technologies is central to our R&D patients at the pharmacy counter and an intention to proceed
approach, as part of our Innovation priority. We are developing with international reference pricing (IRP) or a ‘most-favoured
core capabilities in AI, machine learning, functional genomics nation’ pricing policy, which is indefinitely on hold pending
and cell therapy to accelerate the pace at which we identify and resolution of legal challenges from industry. Though the exact
develop novel targets and medicines. In vaccines our leadership shape and impact of these measures has yet to be finalised,
in platform technologies continues to play a central role, for if implemented they have the potential to significantly change
example in adjuvants, and also mRNA technology, which we industry’s operating environment in the US over the long term.
pursue in-house with our own self-amplifying mRNA (SAM)
platform, and through our strategic mRNA technology
collaboration with CureVac, a clinical stage biotechnology
company (see page 25 for more details). In February 2021
we announced an additional new agreement with CureVac to
jointly develop next generation mRNA vaccines for COVID-19.
In 2020 we also established a dedicated central London hub for
our AI team to complement our two collaborations focused on
applying CRISPR gene editing technologies to drug discovery:
the Laboratory for Genomics Research and our partnership
with The Broad Institute, the world-leading genomics centre.
GSK Annual Report 2020 13Industry trends continued
In the US, there is a determination to control costs, improve Beyond Europe many countries are implementing various
access to healthcare and address out-of-pocket patient reforms ranging from regulatory pathways to cost containment.
payments. Countering this is a growing recognition of the In China, key changes include the alignment of drug regulatory
importance of innovation and earlier access to it in the US review and approval processes with international standards,
versus markets with more restricted access. and improved government reimbursement for innovative
medicines. The pricing and access environment also continues
In Europe, although most markets have established price
to evolve with a move towards evidence-based assessments.
control processes, national healthcare authorities are continually
However, IRP is still used as an instrument to control costs.
looking to sharpen these tools. Disparity in access and supply
Additionally, although the latest national reimbursement drugs
availability across EU markets is a recurring topic of debate,
list negotiations in 2019 reduced prices they offered the
with member states repeatedly raising concerns over medicine
opportunity of improved access for innovative medicines.
shortages. This concern heightened sharply in the crisis phase
There is evidence that access for oncology medicines,
of the pandemic, and although companies mitigated the risk
in particular, is improving.
by reacting quickly and cooperating with EU and national
authorities, COVID-19 has created an impetus for greater In Japan, where HTAs were introduced in April 2019, the
centralised procurement of vaccines and medicines at an pharmaceutical industry remains concerned about the use
EU level. In November, the European Commission (EC) of the assessments for pricing control rather than value
published a Pharmaceutical Strategy focused on improving assessment. A number of Latin American nations including
patient access to affordable medicines while also strengthening Colombia, Mexico, Uruguay and some Central American
the region’s competitive pharmaceutical industry. The strategy countries are also increasingly engaging in HTAs and are
includes both legislative and non-legislative proposals spanning considering establishing or strengthening existing assessments.
access, affordability, innovation and competitiveness, touching
Our response
the whole legislative framework under which pharmaceutical
We aim to improve the health of millions of people each year
companies operate in Europe. The EU Commission also
by making our products available at responsible prices that
announced plans to improve cross-border preparedness
are sustainable for our business.
for health emergencies and the creation of a new agency,
the Health Emergency Response Authority (HERA), modelled Getting the balance right between responsible pricing
on US Biomedical Advanced Research and Development and sustainable business is fundamental to our Innovation,
Authority (BARDA), which would build up reserves of medicines Performance and Trust priorities. When setting the price
and equipment and 'surge capacity' to support manufacturing. of our medicines in developed markets, we apply a value-based
approach to balance reward for innovation with access and
There are growing calls for transparency of prices, development
affordability (see page 35). We aim to provide truly differentiated,
costs and public subsidies, with draft legislation in France and
innovative products that deliver effective health outcomes for
Italy requiring publication of R&D investment costs, the ability
patients and payers, so that even high-cost products deliver
to manage unexpected supply constraints and details of prices
value. By investing in genetics, genomics, big data and AI we
in other jurisdictions. Various cross-border alliances, such as
are accelerating the pace at which we develop transformational
the Valletta Declaration Group, the Beneluxa Initiative, the
medicines and prioritising those molecules with a higher
Nordic Council and the Visegrad Group, have emerged to
probability of success. Genetically validated drug candidates
exert greater leverage in price negotiations.
are twice as likely to become registered medicines, so such
In Europe, as well as many emerging markets, IRP continues investments are also improving the productivity of our R&D
to gain traction, with more than 80 markets now using it as a investment.
primary lever for pricing control. Increasingly countries are also
cooperating on health technology assessments (HTAs), with
a new EU HTA regulation proposal aiming to centralise the
clinical assessments of new medicines and medical devices.
14 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Industry trends continued
Regulatory environment Societal expectations
Healthcare is a highly regulated industry, reflecting public Societal expectations of business continue to evolve, at a time
expectations that products comply to stringent levels of quality, when expected progress on global development has been
safety and efficacy. slowed by political and economic challenges and the pandemic.
COVID-19 has presented a number of challenges. Both As concern around these issues grows, the financial community
regulators and the industry have had to maintain supplies has shown increasing interest in corporate management of
of essential medicines and vaccines, continue development environmental, social and governance (ESG) risks and
programmes for new products, and support and accelerate the opportunities as a better foundation for long-term growth.
development of solutions for COVID-19. Many of the necessary There has also been a rise in civic protest movements, aiming
adaptations have been based on important regulatory efforts to hold companies and governments to account on social
and initiatives already underway. These have included work on issues such as racial and gender inequality.
novel regulatory approaches to encourage biopharmaceutical
During the pandemic, there has been rising scrutiny of how
innovation, including addressing new technologies, such as
companies have supported their employees, suppliers and
digital healthcare, cell and gene therapies, complex clinical
wider communities through the crisis. On the environmental
trials, big data and real world evidence.
agenda, there is a growing sense of urgency around the pace
Regulators have recognised the need for increased cooperation and scale of action needed to address climate change, and
with industry to tackle the pandemic and this has been one of an increasing focus on the degradation of the natural world
the key enablers for the acceleration of timelines for pandemic and biodiversity loss, together with a deeper understanding
innovation. Regulators have built on existing interactions through of how planetary health is linked to human health.
supranational bodies, such as the International Coalition of
Our response
Medicines Regulatory Authorities. The response to COVID-19
Our Trust priority and approach to ESG is designed to create
presents opportunities as well as challenges, such as the
long-term value for both shareholders and society. We have
potential for the permanent application of regulatory adaptations,
set public commitments across our most material issues to
to support the development and approval of a broader range
support our Trust priority and are making good progress against
of new medicines and vaccines, and the simplification of
them (see pages 33 to 42). We recognise that expectations
regulatory processes.
are moving quickly and that we need to respond accordingly.
In parallel to the challenges posed by COVID-19, the industry This is why in 2020 we outlined a new global approach to
continued to prepare for the end of the transition period of the inclusion and diversity and announced two ambitious new
UK’s exit from the EU and for the development of the UK’s future environmental goals, of net zero impact on climate and net
regulatory framework with the Medicines and Healthcare positive impact on nature by 2030 (see pages 37 and 41).
products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) as an independent In our response to the pandemic, GSK has taken an agile,
regulator. people-centric approach, including a strong focus on
supporting our employees and suppliers.
Our response
GSK closely monitors and, where relevant and appropriate,
engages in ways to improve regulation, particularly in the
UK, Europe, US, China and Japan. For example, as scientific
innovation moves beyond the scope of current regulation and
standards, and as we learn from experience with COVID-19,
we are working with our peers to engage with governments
in exploring new policies, processes and incentives that would
support the discovery and delivery of medicines and vaccines
developed through emerging technologies and techniques.
In addition, we are working with the sector to realise the
opportunities for MHRA to establish new or enhanced
partnerships with regulators outside the EU and to lead
globally on the creation of a balanced regulatory framework
that supports innovation.
GSK Annual Report 2020 15Stakeholder engagement
Engaging and building trust with the broad range of stakeholders that
interact with, or are impacted by, our business is key to delivering our
strategy and ensuring our success over the long term.
Our approach to enable management and the Board to understand and consider stakeholder views as part of their oversight
and decision making is explained in our section 172 statement, set out in full on page 108 and incorporated by reference into
this Strategic report. On this page we summarise our key stakeholder groups, how we engage with them, the issues that matter
most to them and what we are doing in response.
Patients and Insights from patients and consumers enable us What matters
consumers to develop products that better meet their needs. – Differentiated product innovation based on patient and
How we engage consumer needs
– Advisory boards, disease-specific patient panels and – Access to a reliable supply of high-quality, safe products
Patient Advocacy Leaders Summits to provide patient – Pricing of healthcare products, particularly out-of-pocket
insights expenses
– Engagement and support for patient groups (disclosed What we are doing
on GSK.com), and initiatives that empower patients to – Strengthening our pipeline of innovative products
get involved in medicine development – Maintaining high standards for product quality and safety
– Market research including consumer sensory labs – Continuing to take a value-based approach to pricing to
balance reward for innovation with access and affordability
Investors We maintain regular and constructive dialogue with What matters
investors to communicate our strategy and performance – Financial performance and commercial success
in order to promote investor confidence and ensure our – Understanding how our R&D strategy is successfully
continued access to capital. developing our pipeline
How we engage – The increasing importance of good management of ESG issues
– Ongoing communications including the AGM, quarterly What we are doing
results calls, in-person and virtual roadshows and – Good financial performance and transparent reporting
detailed company information online
– Business and R&D updates and events on key pipeline
– One-to-one meetings between Board members, milestones
senior executives and institutional investors
– Increasing our engagement on ESG matters
– Biennial investors and analysts perception study
Healthcare We work with healthcare professionals (HCPs) and What matters
professionals medical experts to understand patient needs and to ensure – Access to product and scientific information
and medical our products are being administered in the right way. – Responsible sales and marketing practices
experts How we engage – Safety, efficacy and differentiated innovation
– Scientific dialogue to increase understanding of disease What we are doing
management and patient experience – Increasing the use of digital channels to deliver a more
– Providing high-quality, balanced information about personalised and effective sharing of information to HCPs
our medicines and vaccines – Ensuring we attract and retain the best talent while upholding
– Collaborating on clinical trials and research responsible sales and marketing standards
– Using HCP insights on disease management and patient
experience to inform the development of our medicines
R&D partners We partner with scientific institutions, national health What matters
and academia systems, business partners and academia to help – Finding the right partner to accelerate a potential
ensure we develop differentiated healthcare products. medicine or vaccine to approval to reach patients
How we engage – Pushing the science as far as it can go to advance
– Collaborating with outstanding scientists from human health
organisations across the globe – Dissemination and advancement of scientific knowledge
– Establishing joint ventures to strengthen innovation What we are doing
and efficiency – Working with world-leading experts at biotechs, universities
– Working with academic institutions to accelerate and other scientific institutions to improve drug discovery
discovery and development of new medicines and increase the productivity of our R&D pipeline
– Collaborating with partners such as with CureVac on mRNA
technology and Vir Biotechnology for new antibody therapies;
and expanding genetic and genomics collaborations such as
with the Broad Institute
16 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Stakeholder engagement continued
Governments We work with governments and regulators to advocate What matters
and regulators for policies that encourage innovation, promote – Investment in innovation and life sciences
efficient management of healthcare spending and – Scientific funding and collaboration
give patients the support they need. – Medicines pricing and reimbursement
How we engage – Public health threats – COVID-19 and antimicrobial
– Meeting with regulatory bodies throughout the resistance (AMR)
development process to ensure high-quality and – Investment in preventive health and strengthening health systems
safe new products
What we are doing
– Engaging with government health agencies to
– Working with UK and EU policymakers to ensure post-Brexit
demonstrate the value of our products for patients
there remains a sustained flow of goods, investment capital
and economies
and talent for life sciences innovation
– Working with governments to protect and strengthen
– Engaging in US policy pricing/reimbursement debates
the right operating environment for life sciences
and, with phRMA, commenting on legislative proposals
innovation and launches
for healthcare reform
– Participating in international efforts to address global
– Partnering across industry and governments to tackle AMR
health threats, such as the COVID-19 pandemic
– Engaging with governments, including the US, UK, EU
and Canada, regarding production and procurement of
COVID-19 vaccines
NGOs and We work with partners to improve access to healthcare What matters
multilateral services and our products, and to advocate for the – Access to medicines and vaccines
organisations policy environment in which we can be successful. – UN SDGs and WHO targets for specific disease areas
How we engage – Universal health coverage and the future of health systems
– Working with non-governmental organisations (NGOs) – Financing for global health, including COVID-19 solutions
and partners to research and develop products to
What we are doing
address global health challenges
– Focusing on our unique role as a global health partner
– Collaborating with NGOs and generic manufacturers to to develop products where we have scientific expertise
sustainably supply our products to developing countries
– Partnering with organisations that have complementary
– Partnering to strengthen health systems in developing capabilities and reach to create sustainable models that
countries and drive progress on global health priorities share risk, including our partnership with Gavi to support
access to vaccines in low and lower middle-income countries
– Leveraging our community investment programmes to support
our scientific expertise and deliver greater impact for patients
Suppliers We work with thousands of suppliers, large and small, What matters
who provide goods and services that support us in – Prompt payment for smaller suppliers
delivering a reliable supply of high-quality, safe – Understanding GSK policies to ensure compliance
products for our patients and consumers. – Opportunities to innovate and grow the relationship
How we engage What we are doing
– Regular direct engagement with suppliers to ensure – Engaging with our suppliers throughout the COVID-19
they support GSK's strategies and targets pandemic to understand their operating and financial status,
– Engaging with suppliers through our Third-Party and offering support if necessary
Oversight programme and by conducting in-depth audits – Engaging with suppliers to develop improvement plans and
– Participating in forums such as the Pharmaceutical track progress when we identify areas for improvement
Supply Chain Initiative and the Consumer Goods Forum – Providing proactive support through our third-party EH&S
to improve supply chain sustainability team in countries where our priority suppliers are located
Employees We involve and listen to employees to help us maintain What matters
strong employee engagement and retain talented people. – Our purpose and being able to see the difference we make
How we engage – Having a great line manager
– Regular ‘Let’s Talk’ and ‘Let’s Listen’ events with the – Feeling understood and valued
Corporate Executive Team and other senior leaders – Being part of an inclusive and diverse workplace
– Facilitating dialogue and collaboration through our What we are doing
internal communications platform – Delivering more frequent, authentic communications
– Through Works Councils, Employee Forums and during the pandemic
Employee Resource Groups – Clarifying our expectations of managers to motivate,
– Global all-employee survey and One80 Survey for focus, care for and develop our employees
employees to provide feedback on line managers – Supporting employee safety, mental wellbeing and
enabling work-life balance
– Expanded our I&D commitments by setting aspirational
targets to improve ethnic and gender diversity in leadership
GSK Annual Report 2020 17Innovation
2020 was a year of significant progress for R&D. Across our biopharma
portfolio, we achieved a substantial number of new launches, regulatory
filings and late-stage research milestones. In Consumer Healthcare, we
delivered first market launches of new innovations across all categories.
Progress
– Strengthened the biopharma – Fast tracked COVID-19 solutions, – Invested significantly in strategic
pipeline with nine major approvals with three vaccine approaches in partnerships, including immunology
and nine pivotal study starts clinic and three therapeutics in company Vir Biotechnology and
– Accelerated the portfolio with clinical studies mRNA technology specialist
approvals in Oncology for Blenrep – Started phase III trials for our RSV CureVac
and Zejula, in HIV for Rukobia and maternal, RSV older adults and – Consumer Healthcare had 28
Cabenuva/Vocabria+Rekambys, MenABCWY candidate vaccines first-market launches for new
and in specialty for Duvroq – Launched first clinical trial of an innovations in 2020 and rolled out
– Over 20 assets in late-stage asset in the 23andMe collaboration more than 200 recent innovations
development, many that could into new markets
potentially significantly change
For Consumer Healthcare read more on
medical practice page 27
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines
Our approach to R&D focuses on the science related to the Lifecycle innovation, where we focus on evolving and increasing
immune system, the use of human genetics and the application the impact of our existing products, is also a key component
of advanced technologies, such as AI and machine learning, to of strengthening the pipeline. This ensures our vaccines and
deliver transformational medicines and vaccines. This distinctive medicines reach and protect more people and continue to play
approach has enabled us to strengthen our pipeline in vaccines a strong role in our business performance.
and specialty medicines and accelerate the pace at which we
We have made significant progress across our biopharma
discover, develop and deliver for patients. We are embedding
portfolio, with nine major GSK assets targeting unmet medical
an agile, performance-driven culture by encouraging clear
need gaining regulatory approval. In our infectious diseases
accountability and incentivising our people to pursue bold
portfolio, we received approvals in HIV for our first-in-class
research, backed by data and strong science. We also partner
attachment inhibitor, Rukobia, in the US and Europe, and
with, and hire, outstanding talent from cutting-edge fields
for our long-acting regimen, Cabenuva, in Canada, the US and
outside the pharmaceutical industry such as technology, data
Europe, where it is licensed as Vocabria + Rekambys. We also
science and academia. At the same time, we have ambitious
received European regulatory approval to extend the use of
collaborations with other world-class companies and institutions,
several of our vaccines against infectious diseases: Shingrix –
partnering on research and accessing advanced technologies,
to expand its use from people aged over 50 to those over 18
such as CRISPR and mRNA, to deliver a higher number
who are at increased risk of shingles; Boostrix, our tetanus,
of differentiated medicines and vaccines.
diphtheria, and pertussis vaccine – an expanded indication to
GSK’s biopharma R&D pipeline contains 40 potential new include maternal immunisation; and for Bexsero, a Europe-wide
medicines and 19 candidate vaccines. Our focus on immunology label update for its 2+1 schedule starting with infants of two
is strengthening and diversifying our portfolio with promising months. In oncology we received significant US and European
clinical assets in immune-mediated diseases, infectious approvals, first for Zejula, which was approved for an expanded
diseases and oncology. More than 70% of our research targets indication in ovarian cancer, and secondly for Blenrep, our
are genetically validated, with over 30 novel targets identified first-in-class anti-BCMA (B-cell maturation antigen) treatment
through our collaboration with consumer genetics and research for multiple myeloma. In respiratory, Nucala, our first-in-class,
company, 23andMe. Based on our current projections, by 2026 anti-IL5 biologic, was approved in the US for hypereosinophilic
we have the potential to launch numerous new vaccines and syndrome, and Trelegy Ellipta, our once-daily single inhaler triple
medicines as well as new indications for existing assets. Should therapy, was approved in the US for asthma. Duvroq, for chronic
all data be positive we could have more than 10 high-potential kidney disease-related anaemia, was approved in Japan.
late-stage assets that could significantly change medical Benlysta was approved in the US for an expanded indication
practice. We continue to focus the pipeline on assets with in lupus nephritis.
the greatest probability of success.
18 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Innovation continued
Nine of our assets entered pivotal studies, including one We fundamentally believe no person living with HIV should take
of our COVID-19 vaccine collaborations, our therapeutic more medicines than they need. Our two-drug regimen (2DR)
COVID-19 antibody treatment, which we are co-developing treatments Dovato and Juluca, which have been shown to be
with Vir Biotechnology, and our candidate vaccine against as safe and effective as three-drug regimens, allow people living
five Neisseria serotypes (A, B, C, W, Y) causing meningitis, with HIV to maintain viral suppression while taking fewer HIV
as well as our candidate vaccine against respiratory syncytial drugs over a lifetime.
virus (RSV) for maternal immunisation.
Dovato is a once-daily, single-pill containing dolutegravir
The successful progression of our pipeline and our ability to and lamivudine, for the treatment of adults living with HIV-1.
fast track COVID-19 solutions were achieved despite disruption Following its 2019 launch in the US and Europe, Dovato
from international lockdowns. Throughout the pandemic we received marketing approval for treatment of naïve adults with
have continued to deliver trial drugs to thousands of patients HIV in Japan. The US, Japan and Australia received approval
within sealed-off healthcare systems, and assured patient for the switch indication in the third quarter of 2020. Long-term
and employee safety and study integrity. The resilience of data from the GEMINI 1 and 2 and TANGO studies showed
our operations and supply chains has allowed the majority Dovato was as effective as a number of three-drug regimens.
of our clinical studies to remain open. Data from the STAT clinical trial also demonstrated that Dovato
was effective and well tolerated as a treatment for rapid initiation
Infectious diseases after diagnosis. Dovato is now included in international
guidelines, as an initial therapy for HIV and as a switch option.
GSK has a world-leading infectious diseases portfolio with
30 medicines and vaccines in clinical testing. This reflects In 2020 we received approval of Rukobia (fostemsavir),
both our focus on immunology and GSK’s 70-year track record our first-in-class attachment inhibitor, in the US, followed by
of using pioneering research methods and novel technologies approval in Europe in February 2021. Rukobia was approved
to find solutions to diseases caused by bacteria, viruses and in the US after being fast tracked with an FDA breakthrough
parasites. For information on our response to COVID-19, therapy designation. The therapy provides an option for heavily
see page 24. treatment-experienced adults with HIV-1 infection, including
those who are failing on current antiretroviral regimens and
HIV
have exhausted all treatment options. It had previously delivered
Around 38 million people across the world live with HIV,
positive results from its 96-week phase III BRIGHTE study.
including approximately 1.7 million children. Although sub-
Saharan Africa remains the most affected region, the number ViiV Healthcare also received regulatory approval of the world’s
of cases globally continues to grow with approximately 38,000 first complete long-acting injectable regimen for the treatment
new infections each year in the US alone. of people living with HIV. This regimen, which contains
cabotegravir and rilpivirine, reduces the number of treatment
GSK has long been committed to combatting, preventing
dosing days from 365 to 12 per year, with the potential to
and ultimately curing HIV, and thereby limiting its impact on
extend that further to just six. It was approved in Canada and
people’s lives. Our HIV business is managed through ViiV
the US, as Cabenuva, and in Europe, as Vocabria (cabotegravir)
Healthcare, the sole global specialist HIV pharmaceutical
and Rekambys (rilpivirine).
company, which is majority owned by GSK with Pfizer and
Shionogi as shareholders. The business is underpinned by Complementary to these approvals, and aligned with our goal
a mission to leave no person living with HIV behind. of providing convenient, simplified treatments for people living
with HIV, we are advancing further research in long-acting
Whilst curing HIV remains ViiV Healthcare’s ultimate aim, our
therapies. In September 2020, we began a one-year study to
portfolio of 16 approved antiretroviral medicines offers a range
identify and evaluate approaches to integrating our once every
of therapeutic options for people living with HIV. They include
two months injectable cabotegravir and rilpivirine HIV treatment
Tivicay and Triumeq, which contain our medicine dolutegravir,
into European healthcare practices. In October, we completed
the most widely prescribed integrase inhibitor worldwide; we
the final study visits of our year-long CUSTOMIZE study, which
believe around 17 million people living with HIV globally are
investigated the best ways of implementing a once-monthly HIV
now taking a dolutegravir-based regimen. Ensuring no child
regimen into clinical practice across the US. Results indicate
living with HIV is left behind, in June 2020 we received US
a high level of patient preference for the long-acting injectable
Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval, followed by
as it offers the potential to reduce the frequency of dosing and
European Medicines Agency (EMA) approval in January 2021,
is as effective as daily, oral, three-drug regimens in maintaining
of the first-ever dispersible tablet formulation of dolutegravir,
viral suppression among adults living with HIV.
Tivicay, for children from four weeks of age.
GSK Annual Report 2020 19Innovation continued
With around 1.7 million people newly diagnosed with HIV GSK's maternal candidate is based on a recombinant
every year, focus on developing effective prevention is essential. pre-fusion F antigen to boost the pre-existing immune response
In 2020 we reported positive results from trials of our of the vaccinated mother whose protective antibodies would
investigational, long-acting injectable cabotegravir treatment then be transferred to the unborn child. Our paediatric
against HIV acquisition. Interim analysis from a Global HIV candidate harnesses our adenovirus vector technology and
Prevention Trials Network (HPTN) study showed the once contains three RSV antigens aiming to induce active immunity
every two months treatment is 66% more effective than, and and extend protection of infants during the first two years of life.
superior to, daily pre-exposure prophylaxis pills in preventing
Our older adult candidate leverages a recombinant pre-fusion
HIV acquisition in men. The results were released earlier than
F antigen combined with our AS01 adjuvant system, which is
anticipated following this outcome. Similarly, results were
a key ingredient in our successful shingles vaccine Shingrix,
released earlier than anticipated in a second HPTN study in
to enhance the immune response in a population with a naturally
women that showed cabotegravir was 89% more effective
declining immune system.
than the daily oral standard of care for pre-exposure prophylaxis
(PrEP). We intend to apply for marketing authorisation of this After promising phase I/II data for our older adults and maternal
therapy with regulators from the first half of 2021. RSV candidate vaccines showed that both assets triggered
a robust immune response and were well-tolerated, we began
Shingles
the phase III trial of our maternal candidate vaccine in November
Our launch of Shingrix in late 2017 signalled a step change
2020, and the phase III programme for older adults in February
in the prevention of shingles, a painful and potentially serious
2021. Phase I/II studies of our paediatric RSV candidate
illness. Approximately one in three people will develop shingles
vaccine are ongoing, with safety and immunogenicity data
in their lifetime. The vaccine addresses the age-related decline
in seronegative infants expected in May 2021.
in immunity, achieving more than 90% efficacy across all age
groups. It is the first non-live shingles vaccine to combine Meningitis
a specific subunit antigen with an adjuvant to sustain the Approximately 1.2 million people develop invasive meningococcal
immune response. disease (IMD) every year with infants, young children and
adolescents particularly vulnerable. Even when the disease
In 2020 we received European approval to expand the use of
is diagnosed early and adequate treatment is started, 8% to
Shingrix from people aged over 50, to those over 18 who are
15% of patients die, often within 24 to 48 hours after the onset
at increased risk of shingles. We also applied to broaden its
of symptoms. If untreated, meningococcal meningitis is fatal
indication in the US to include adults with immunodeficiency
in 50% of cases and may result in brain damage, hearing loss
or immunosuppression who are more likely to contract shingles.
or disability in 10% to 20% of survivors.
Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV)
GSK is the market leader in vaccines against IMD, based
One of our innovation priorities is the development of novel
on 2020 revenue.1 Our complementary portfolio of Bexsero,
prophylactic vaccines for diseases with significant unmet
our market-leading meningitis B vaccine, and Menveo, our
medical need, such as RSV.
meningitis ACWY vaccine, helps protect against the majority
RSV is a leading cause of lower respiratory tract infection, of IMD cases.
such as pneumonia and bronchiolitis, with infants and older
2020 saw the publication of multiple studies with real-world
adults most at risk. Currently no vaccine is licensed to protect
evidence of Bexsero’s effectiveness in different settings,
against the virus, which every year is estimated to hospitalise
including Europe where serogroup B is the most prevalent.
about 3 million under-fives globally and 177,000 older adults
Public Health England’s Bexsero immunisation programme
in the US alone.
in the UK demonstrated a 75% reduction in expected cases in
GSK is the only company to develop a portfolio of three fully vaccine-eligible infants. This evidence led to a Europe-wide
dedicated RSV candidate vaccines, each of which has label update for Bexsero’s 2+1 schedule starting with infants
been fast tracked by the FDA. These candidate vaccines of two months.
are tailored to the needs of the most vulnerable populations
Meanwhile, phase II trials of the liquid presentation of Menveo
– infants (through the complementary maternal and paediatric
were completed in December. The new format aims to simplify
candidate vaccines) and older adults (through our candidate
vaccine preparation steps for healthcare providers.
vaccine targeted at people aged over 60).
In August 2020, we began phase III clinical trials of our
MenABCWY pentavalent vaccine. This candidate vaccine
builds on the successful technology used in Bexsero and
Menveo, both of which have favourable safety and efficacy
profiles. Currently no meningitis vaccine exists against all
five serogroups (ABCWY). A 5-in-1 vaccine would require
just one vaccine, rather than two, and fewer injections.
1 Internal data
20 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Innovation continued
New antibiotics and AMR-related vaccines We are also investigating a therapeutic candidate vaccine
We aim to tackle the urgent threat of antimicrobial resistance for chronic hepatitis B infections that is currently in phase I/II
(AMR) for organisms recognised by the Centers for Disease trials. The work on chronic hepatitis B is part of our focus to
Control (CDC) and World Health Organization (WHO) as progress therapeutic vaccines to help the immune system better
having a significant negative impact on global public health. respond to existing diseases, help to reduce chronic diseases’
This reflects our strategic commitment to develop novel exacerbations and slow their progress – and hopefully improve
targeted solutions for new areas of high medical need. the quality of life of the growing number of people suffering
Gepotidacin, a potential first-in-class antibiotic with a distinct from chronic diseases worldwide.
mechanism of action, is in phase III studies for urogenital
Boostrix, our tetanus, diphtheria, and pertussis vaccine,
gonorrhoea and uncomplicated urinary tract infection, with
received approval in Europe for an expanded indication to
the first data expected by the first half of 2022. This marks
include maternal immunisation. Immunisation of pregnant
the first time these infections have been addressed by new
mothers will enable the mother’s immune system to make
oral antibiotics in 20 years.
and transfer antibodies to help protect the unborn child
In 2020 we began a phase I study of a candidate vaccine against pertussis (whooping cough). The expansion was
for preventing primary and recurrent soft-skin tissue infections supported by robust data from the largest phase IV randomised,
caused by Staphylococcus aureus. The Staphylococcus aureus placebo-controlled clinical trial ever performed on pertussis
pathogen swiftly acquires antibiotic resistance, with multi maternal immunisation.
drug-resistant strains being a serious threat to human health.
Rotarix, our vaccine against rotavirus infections, received
In the US alone, methicillin-resistant strains of Staphylococcus
European approval for our porcine circovirus-free presentation
aureus annually cause more than 300,000 cases in hospitalised
in 2020.
patients and an estimated 10,600 deaths.
For information on our malaria vaccines, see the global health
We are also progressing a phase I study of a vaccine against
section on page 34.
another pathogen frequently displaying AMR, Clostridium
difficile. This bacterium causes more than 200,000 cases in Oncology
hospitalised patients, leading to an estimated 12,800 deaths
in the US every year. Our work in oncology is focused on maximising patient survival
through the discovery and development of transformational
Support from antibacterial research accelerator CARB-X
medicines. We have a portfolio of 14 oncology assets in
has helped us with the development of a new drug to treat
clinical development, both individually and in novel combination
and prevent recurrent urinary tract infections caused by
studies, across four areas of focus. The first of these is
the Escherichia coli (E. coli) bacteria. The project aims to
immuno-oncology which uses the human immune system
explore the safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics of the
to treat cancer, where our portfolio of nine assets includes
FimH antagonist in a phase I study which was initiated in
Blenrep, dostarlimab and feladilimab. Next, synthetic lethality,
September 2020 and is due to finish in 2021. The support
a concept where two mechanisms work together to destroy
will also enable us to scale up the drug for future clinical
cancerous cells, and our lead asset in this area is Zejula.
and non-clinical studies.
Third, cell therapy, where human T-cells are engineered to
For more information about our work on AMR, see the Trust target the disease. Our NY-ESO asset leads this portfolio.
section on page 35. Lastly, cancer epigenetics, where the gene-regulatory system
Other infectious diseases of the epigenome is modulated to curb cancer and we have
Hepatitis B virus (HBV) can chronically infect the liver leading two assets in this field, a Type 1 PRMT inhibitor and a
to serious health conditions, including cirrhosis, liver failure PRMT5 inhibitor.
and liver cancer. Despite existing treatment options, almost Starting with immuno-oncology, we received regulatory approval
900,000 people die from HBV each year. in the US and Europe for Blenrep (belantamab mafodotin),
We started a phase IIb study with GSK3228836, our our first-in-class, humanised antibody drug conjugate against
investigational antisense oligonucleotide drug against BCMA, for relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma. Multiple
HBV, which was in-licensed from Ionis in 2019. Data myeloma is the third most common blood cancer, for which
from the phase IIa study suggested that GSK3228836 there is currently no cure. Blenrep, which is the first anti-BCMA
has the potential to suppress hepatitis B surface antigen therapy to be approved, could provide a treatment option for
after four weeks of treatment. patients with relapsed or refractory myeloma, who currently have
limited treatment options. The approval followed positive results
from the pivotal DREAMM-2 study.
GSK Annual Report 2020 21Innovation continued
We continue to progress Blenrep’s extensive clinical Originally approved in 2017 in the US and Europe for patients
development programme, to enable us to advance into with recurrent ovarian cancer, we first expanded Zejula’s
earlier lines of treatment. We began two pivotal second-line indication in October 2019 in the US as a late-line treatment
multiple myeloma studies, DREAMM-7, of Blenrep in for advanced ovarian cancer associated with homologous
combination with bortezomib and dexamethasone and recombination deficiency. We are pursuing a number of further
DREAMM-8, of Blenrep in combination with pomalidomide clinical studies of Zejula, alone and in combination with other
and dexamethasone. We also initiated a pivotal third-line therapies. These include combination therapy for first-line
multiple myeloma study, DREAMM-3, of Blenrep as a ovarian cancer with our PD-1 inhibitor dostarlimab, and the
monotherapy; and a phase Ib combination study evaluating initiation of the ZEAL-1 trial in combination with pembrolizumab
the asset in combination with nirogacestat, SpringWorks’ in non-small cell lung cancer. To further strengthen our pipeline,
investigational gamma secretase inhibitor, for relapsed/ and our capabilities in synthetic lethality, we agreed a broad
refractory multiple myeloma. The latter combination is strategic partnership with IDEAYA Biosciences, an oncology-
a sub-study in the ongoing DREAMM-5 trial. focused precision medicine company.
Dostarlimab is an investigational anti-programmed death-1 Our lead oncology cell therapy asset is a T-cell immunotherapy,
(PD-1) inhibitor, which we are evaluating as a potential letetresgene autoleucel (lete-cel; GSK3377794), that is
treatment for endometrial cancer. We filed for European genetically modified to express a T-cell receptor (TCR) targeting
regulatory approval of dostarlimab as a monotherapy for the NY-ESO-1 antigen present across multiple cancer types,
second-line endometrial cancer, based upon data from the including various solid tumours. In 2020, we began a
GARNET trial. Dostarlimab is also in a phase III study (RUBY) registrational trial in second-line advanced/metastatic synovial
of first-line recurrent or primary advanced endometrial cancer sarcoma. The therapy is on an accelerated development path,
in combination with standard of care (chemotherapy) with having received European PRIME and FDA breakthrough
and without Zejula. status. Two next generation T-cell immunotherapies,
GSK3901961 and GSK3845097, were transitioned from
We continue to progress feladilimab, our humanised non-T cell
pre-clinical to clinical development. These therapies build
depleting IgG4 antibody engineered to enhance T-cell driven
on our TCR platform and utilise enhancements to improve
anti-tumour responses by activating the immune co-stimulatory
cell efficacy and persistence. We also announced a strategic
receptor ICOS. We are studying the antibody alone and in
collaboration with the biopharmaceutical company Immatics
combination with other therapies, due to its potential across
Biotechnologies to further enhance our capabilities in cell
a range of tumour types. First patient enrolment was achieved
therapy. Working with Immatics we will identify, research and
for INDUCE-4, our second phase II/III gated study of feladilimab
develop novel adoptive cell therapies with a focus on solid
in combination with pembrolizumab and chemotherapy for
tumours, and this work complements our existing relationships
recurrent/metastatic head and neck squamous cell carcinoma,
in cell therapy with Lyell Immunopharma and Adaptimmune.
expanding our active trial programmes for this molecule.
In 2020 we also announced a new addition to our immuno- Respiratory
oncology pipeline, anti-CD96 (GSK6097608), an immune
checkpoint receptor expressed on T-cells and natural killer GSK is extending 50 years of leadership in respiratory medicine
cells. This potential first-in-class antibody is the first molecule with continued innovation in the development of treatments for
to be co-developed with 23andMe. In early 2020, we began asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), and
a phase I study of the asset in monotherapy and in combination other debilitating respiratory conditions. Our portfolio of three
with dostarlimab for patients with advanced solid tumours. candidate vaccines for respiratory syncytial virus, as mentioned
earlier, is just one example of our world-leading R&D in this area.
Zejula, our lead synthetic lethal asset, further expanded its
Since 2012, we have launched five new inhaled therapies and
indication in 2020, with approval in the US and Europe as
our first-in-class biologic, Nucala, giving us one of the broadest
the only once-daily oral poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP)
portfolios of respiratory medicines in our industry. In 2020 new
inhibitor in first-line monotherapy maintenance treatment for
respiratory products made up 54% of our portfolio, compared
all patients with platinum-responsive advanced ovarian cancer.
with just 6% in 2015. This growth has offset the decline in
This followed positive results from the phase III PRIMA study,
Advair/Seretide, which moved from 64% of our portfolio to
which showed a significant reduction in disease progression
22% in the same period.
for patients, regardless of their biomarker status.
22 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Innovation continued
Recognising the potential of our medicines to help as many Other priority assets
patients as possible, in 2020 we worked to deliver lifecycle
Immuno-inflammation
innovations for our market-leading treatments, single inhaler
Our focus on the science of the immune system supports
triple therapy Trelegy Ellipta and Nucala. Trelegy Ellipta received
the development of medicines for immune-mediated diseases,
regulatory approval in the US and Japan for the treatment of
such as lupus and rheumatoid arthritis (RA), that are the source
adults with asthma, following earlier positive results from the
of significant morbidity for patients and a considerable public
phase III CAPTAIN study. This expanded Trelegy Ellipta’s
health burden for society. This emphasis reflects our aim to
original COPD indication, making it the first single inhaler triple
develop immunological-based medicines that alter the course
therapy to be approved for both asthma and COPD in the US.
of inflammatory disease.
Extending its leadership in eosinophil-driven diseases, Nucala
We remain the only company with a biologic treatment,
was approved in the US for patients with hypereosinophilic
Benlysta, specifically developed and approved for adult and
syndrome (HES), adding to its indications in severe eosinophilic
paediatric systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), a chronic,
asthma (SEA) and eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis
incurable, autoimmune disease. In 2020 we applied for
(EGPA). The approval, which followed the granting of an FDA
regulatory approval across several geographies including
priority review, makes Nucala the first and only targeted biologic
the US, Europe and China for Benlysta in lupus nephritis,
treatment for patients with this rare and life-threatening disease.
an inflammation of the kidneys caused by SLE which can lead
We also applied for US and European authorisation of Nucala to end-stage kidney disease. This followed positive data from
for patients suffering from chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal the pivotal BLISS-LN study, which supported the FDA granting
polyps (CRSwNP). This is a common but debilitating condition, breakthrough therapy designation and a priority review for
characterised by high eosinophils levels, which can cause Benlysta in lupus nephritis. Benlysta is the first treatment
difficulty breathing, sleeping and maintaining a sense of smell approved in the US for lupus nephritis, and the only treatment
and taste. The application followed positive results from the approved for SLE and lupus nephritis.
pivotal SYNAPSE study of Nucala, which marked the first time
We progressed our otilimab phase III study in patients with RA,
that an anti-IL5 biologic had reported positive phase III data
a chronic, systemic inflammatory condition characterised by
in CRSwNP. We also submitted regulatory applications in
pain, joint swelling and stiffness, and disability. The study
Europe for the use of Nucala in patients with EGPA and HES.
followed earlier encouraging results from the anti GM-CSF
We believe Nucala may also have the potential to benefit
antibody’s phase II BAROQUE trial. We also started a phase II
patients with COPD who have elevated eosinophil counts.
proof of concept study with otilimab for treating severe
A phase III COPD trial is ongoing.
pulmonary COVID-19-related disease (see page 24).
Recognising that patients with respiratory diseases continue
Anaemia
to require novel therapeutic options, our investigational
Consistent with our intent to bring new therapeutic options
long-acting interleukin-5 (IL-5) antagonist for SEA moved
to patients with significant unmet medical need, we are
to phase III in February 2021.
developing daprodustat for the treatment of anaemia due
Human rhinovirus (HRV) is the most common respiratory to chronic kidney disease (CKD). In 2020, we received our
pathogen associated with flare-ups of COPD and asthma. first regulatory approval for daprodustat, marketed as Duvroq
To replicate itself, HRV takes over the PI4Kß kinase in the in Japan for patients with anaemia due to CKD. The approval
lung. Therefore, inhibiting P14Kß could prevent HRV-driven followed positive results from the phase III programme in Japan.
exacerbations and the associated patient burden. GSK’s Duvroq is an oral hypoxia-inducible factor prolyl hydroxylase
first-in-class PI4Kß inhibitor, GSK3923868, has started inhibitor, a new class of drug that encourages the body to make
a phase I study to determine its safety and pharmacokinetic more red blood cells, thereby treating the anaemia associated
profile. with CKD. Being an oral daily medicine, Duvroq offers greater
To ensure we focus on the medicines with the greatest convenience than the current injection-based standard of care
potential, we terminated progression of our anti-IL33 receptor for the nearly 3.5 million people in Japan with CKD-related
for severe asthma. anaemia.
During the year, initial data from the proof-of-concept study GSK is committed to helping patients with CKD-linked anaemia
on our COPD candidate vaccine showed it did not meet the around the world. We have a robust programme evaluating
primary endpoint. the efficacy and safety of daprodustat, with daily or three times
a week dosing regimens. The trials are evaluating the wide
spectrum of patients with CKD, including patients not on
dialysis and those receiving hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis.
The programme is on track, with data expected in 2021.
GSK Annual Report 2020 23Innovation continued
COVID-19 solutions We are also doing what we can to support the manufacture
Successfully fighting the COVID-19 pandemic will require of other COVID-19 vaccines; in February we announced
more than one solution and we are working on many fronts that we will support the production of CureVac’s current first
to minimise its impact. generation COVID-19 vaccine candidate, by manufacturing
up to 100 million doses in 2021. We are also in ongoing
We are contributing our unique adjuvant technology to help
dialogue with other manufacturers to see if we can support
develop multiple protein-based COVID-19 vaccines, while
their COVID-19 vaccine production.
simultaneously developing preventative and therapeutic
medicines and co-developing novel mRNA vaccine candidates. Therapeutic treatments will be essential while patients wait for
Partnering with other leading healthcare companies and COVID-19 vaccination, for people who cannot be vaccinated,
research institutions is central to this approach. in the event of further variations of the virus, or if vaccines have
partial efficacy. In April 2020 we announced a COVID-19
We have several partnerships to develop COVID-19 vaccines
partnership, with clinical-stage immunology company Vir
where we are contributing our pandemic adjuvant technology.
Biotechnology, to identify and accelerate therapeutic and
The use of an adjuvant can be of particular importance in
preventative antibody therapies against the virus.
a pandemic as it may reduce the amount of vaccine protein
required per dose, allowing additional doses to be produced Within six months of our agreement with Vir, the VIR-7831
and therefore protecting more people. It can also enable an (GSK4182136) antibody, for the early treatment of COVID-19
enhanced immune response. patients at high risk of hospitalisation, moved to a global phase
III trial. The treatment was identified from antibodies isolated
We have pledged to supply our COVID-19 pandemic adjuvant
from a patient that had the severe acute respiratory syndrome
to governments and institutions at a responsible price, either
(SARS) virus. The resulting antibodies had activity against
as standalone adjuvants or as part of an adjuvanted vaccine.
coronaviruses, including SARS-CoV-2. These dual-action
We will reinvest profits made on sales of our adjuvant during
antibodies were found to have the potential to block and
the COVID-19 pandemic phase to support coronavirus-
clear the virus, provide a high barrier to resistance and achieve
related research and long-term global pandemic
high concentrations in the lungs, ideal properties to treat and
preparedness.
potentially prevent COVID-19 infection. Results from the early
In April 2020 we announced a collaboration with Sanofi treatment study of VIR-7831 are expected in early 2021. If
which combines their S-protein COVID-19 antigen with our approved, our antibody treatment could be available as early
pandemic adjuvant technology. Together with Sanofi we have as the first half of 2021. In February 2021, the COMET-PEAK
secured supply agreements with the US, UK, EU and Canada phase II study evaluating an intramuscular formulation of
and a statement of intent with COVAX, a global initiative that VIR-7831 in low-risk adults with mild to moderate COVID-19
aims to ensure equitable international distribution of effective was initiated.
COVID-19 vaccines, as part of our commitment to make
The clinical development programme for VIR-7831 includes
this vaccine, if approved, available globally. In December,
evaluation in a sub-trial of the US National Institutes of
we announced a delay to the development programme due
Health’s Accelerating COVID-19 Therapeutic Interventions
to the antigen concentration – now addressed by our partner
and Vaccines (ACTIV) program’s clinical trial in hospitalised
– and started a new phase II study in February 2021.
adults with COVID-19. It is also being studied in combination
In July we announced a collaboration with Medicago to with Eli Lilly’s CoV555 antibody in low-risk patients with mild
develop another COVID-19 candidate vaccine. Phase I to moderate COVID-19, which we expect data from in the
clinical testing began that month on a vaccine combining first half of 2021.
an innovative plant-based antigen and GSK’s adjuvant.
The second monoclonal antibody from the Vir and GSK
The trials moved into phase II/III clinical development in
collaboration, VIR-7832, along with VIR-7831, is to be
November, with the phase III portion due to start in March
investigated as a potential COVID-19 treatment with the
2021. We announced another adjuvanted COVID-19 vaccine
UK-based AGILE initiative in patients with mild to moderate
collaboration in February 2021, with SK Bioscience, which
COVID-19 in a phase Ib/IIa clinical trial, which began in
has entered phase I testing.
early 2021.
Our collaboration to develop an adjuvanted COVID-19
In 2020, following a review of our marketed medicines and
vaccine with China-based Clover Pharmaceuticals was
pipeline products to identify agents that might be able to treat
stopped in early 2021.
the COVID-19 virus or secondary complications, we started
Also, in February 2021, we announced a new collaboration a phase II proof of concept OSCAR study with otilimab for
with the German biotechnology company CureVac to jointly treating severe pulmonary COVID-19-related disease.
develop next generation mRNA vaccines for COVID-19. In February 2021, we announced results from the study,
With their potential for a multivalent approach to address which showed the primary endpoint did not reach statistical
multiple emerging variants in one vaccine, we believe these significance across all ages, but an efficacy analysis by age
could be important in the next phase of the pandemic. showed a potentially important clinical benefit in patients 70
years and older. Based on the public health need, we have
decided to expand the OSCAR study to confirm these
potentially important findings.
24 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Innovation continued
Advanced technologies and partnerships In January 2021, we announced our collaboration with Eligo,
a French biotech company, to investigate a potential therapeutic
The application of advanced technologies is central to our
solution for acne through a precise modulation of the skin
R&D approach. We have made significant investments in
microbiome composition, using a combination of the CRISPR
transformational technologies that are changing the way that
technology and bacteriophages.
medicines and vaccines are discovered, including in human
genetics, genomics and artificial intelligence/machine learning Partnerships
(AI/ML). These build on our core capabilities and our broad In 2020 we achieved substantial milestones by establishing a
portfolio of platform technologies, such as cell therapy, adjuvants London AI hub and two new collaborations in human genetics
and, most recently, mRNA-based vaccines, which are altering and genomics. Our AI hub team will use biomedical information,
the way that medicines and vaccines are developed. We are AI methods and advanced computing platforms to unlock new
making these investments to help us accelerate the pace at meaning from our sizeable genetic and clinical data. They will use
which we design and develop novel medicines and vaccines. the dedicated hub to work and partner with leading companies
and AI institutions, including NVIDIA and Silicon Valley start-up
Advanced technologies
Cerebras. We are also supporting PhD studentships at the
COVID-19 has demonstrated how advanced technology is
University of Cambridge's new Centre for AI and Medicine,
accelerating and enabling innovation for our entire industry,
which will provide GSK with a talent pipeline for the coming five
with unprecedented collaborations between companies and
years and will shape the next generation of practitioners. Our role
research institutes. GSK has a long history of leveraging and
in establishing such an ecosystem of partners is unique in the
accelerating our own technological expertise, and achieving
industry. Together we can discover and design medicines and
innovative combinations, by partnering with other leading
vaccines with a higher probability of success.
companies, institutions and experts. GSK’s adjuvant technology
platforms play a central role in our vaccine innovation. Our AS01 During the year we also formed a new five-year research
adjuvant is a key component in many of our vaccine pipeline collaboration with one of the world’s leading genetics and
assets, including our RSV older adult candidate vaccine. functional genomic centres, the Broad Institute, in Cambridge,
It also drives the success of our licensed Shingrix vaccine. Massachusetts. Additionally, in December 2020, we announced
We have made our pandemic adjuvant technology available with Ahren Innovation Capital that we will co-lead a Series A
in collaborations, a potentially significant contribution to investment in Adrestia Therapeutics, a UK-based biotechnology
strengthen the global response to COVID-19. In 2020 we company using cutting-edge molecular biology to develop
also progressed other novel vaccines technologies such as precision medicines. Adrestia’s Disease Rebalancing Platform
bioconjugation, which is central to our Staphylococcus aureus uses synthetic viability to identify phenotypic and molecular
candidate vaccine, and adenovirus-vector ChAd, which is core imbalances of disease as the basis of novel drug discovery.
to our paediatric RSV asset. GSK is also entering into a multi-year agreement with Adrestia
on up to five projects. We will develop a portfolio of joint
During the year we agreed a strategic mRNA technology
projects with both partners to investigate the human genetic
collaboration with clinical stage biotechnology company
links to disease, to help identify more high-quality and
CureVac. We built on this relationship in February 2021
genetically validated medicines.
with a further agreement with CureVac, to jointly develop next
generation mRNA vaccines for COVID-19. mRNA technology Our new AI and genomics collaborations complement and
is a cutting-edge platform for the development of new vaccines extend important existing GSK partnerships. These include our
and medicines and has shown proof of concept with very 2019 agreement with the University of California to establish the
high efficacy levels for two COVID-19 vaccines. The mRNA Laboratory for Genomics Research (LGR). This state-of-the-art
technology has the potential to transform vaccine development laboratory is evolving and advancing CRISPR and other
and the vaccines industry for a number, although not all, genomics technologies to improve drug discovery, enabling us to
diseases. It enables specific proteins, or antigens, to be identify more potential treatments and enhance R&D productivity.
produced by the body’s own cells, enabling the human immune In 2020 it initiated three projects on the genetics of disease,
system to prevent or fight disease. The technology could allow two in oncology, the third in neurodegeneration. The LGR is
us to discover vaccines faster and to produce them more building a state-of-the-art CRISPR library, which will enable
efficiently at scale. the continued evolution and sophistication of this technology to
transform drug discovery. At the same time, we are strengthening
Our original agreement with CureVac covers the research,
our in-house resources in automated biology and our ability to
development, manufacturing and commercialisation of up to
interrogate cell biology at our Heidelberg R&D site, Cellzome.
five mRNA-based vaccines and monoclonal antibodies (mAbs)
targeting infectious disease pathogens. CureVac’s integrated Our collaboration with 23andMe, established in 2018, is helping
mRNA platform complements GSK’s own self-amplifying mRNA us to identify a new generation of disease targets validated by
(SAM) vaccine capabilities and builds on our growing strengths human genetics. We have now identified over 30 novel targets
in mAbs innovation, aligned to our overall R&D focus on the across a number of therapy areas through this collaboration.
science of immunology. Our phase I study to test SAM with a During the year we also started our first GSK-23andMe
rabies antigen is advancing, we started a phase I study to test clinical trial of a potential new immuno-oncology treatment,
SAM with a COVID-19 model vaccine at the start of March GSK6097608. Other GSK collaborations that continue
2021 and an additional early-stage clinical study using SAM to explore the potential of genetics and genomics include
is expected to start later in March. Open Targets, FinnGen, Altius and the UK Biobank.
GSK Annual Report 2020 25Innovation continued
Pipeline overview
We have 59 assets in development, of which over 20 are late-stage.
Pivotal (phase II/III/registration)
Benlysta + rituximab SLE letetresgene-autoleuceI1 (3377794, NY-ES0-1 TCR) SS2
cabotegravir LA HIV PrEP 41821361 (VIR-7831) COVID-19
daprodustat (HIF-PHI) anaemia 35112941 (LA anti-IL5 antagonist) asthma
Nucala COPD/nasal polyps Shingrix immuno-compromised vaccine1
Blenrep1 (BCMA ADC) multiple myeloma7 Bexsero infants vaccine (US)
Zejula1 (PARP inhibitor) ovarian and lung cancer2 MMR vaccine (US)
dostarlimab1 (PD-1 antagonist) dMMR/MSI-H EC Rotarix liquid vaccine (US)
bintrafusp alfa1 (TGFβ trap/anti-PDL1) BTC2 MenABCWY vaccine
otilimab1 (3196165, aGM-CSF inhibitor) RA2,6 RSV maternal vaccine1
gepotidacin1 (2140944) uUTI and GC COVID-19 (Medicago) vaccine1,3
feladilimab1 (3359609 ICOS receptor agonist) HNSCC2,4 RSV older adults vaccine1
Proof of concept (phase Ib/II)
3640254 (maturation inhibitor) HIV Menveo liquid vaccine
32288361 (HBV ASO) HBV RSV paediatric vaccine
linerixibat (IBATi) cholestatic pruritus in PBC Therapeutic HBV vaccine1,5
33265951 (PRMT5 inhibitor) cancer Malaria1 (fractional dose) vaccine
cobolimab1 (TSR-022, TIM-3 antagonist) NSCLC Shigella vaccine1
30366561 (leucyl t-RNA inhibitor) TB COVID-19 (Sanofi) vaccine1,3
40743861 (TSR-033, LAG3 antagonist) cancer
First time in human/POM (phase I/Ib)
38582791 (CCL 17 inhibitor) OA pain 39019611 (CD8/NYESO TCR) cancer
3745417 (STING agonist) cancer 38450971 (TGFbR2/NYESO TCR) cancer
34391711 (hPGD2 synthase inhibitor) DMD 34942451 (proteosome inhibitor) visceral leishmaniasis
31868991 (CRK-12 inhibitor) visceral leishmaniasis 39153931 (TG2 inhibitor) celiac disease
38101091 (broadly neutralising antibody) HIV 25562861 (Mtb inhibitor) TB
33687151 (Type 1 PRMT inhibitor) cancer 37290981 (ethionamide booster) TB
27987451 (TRPV4 blocker) DME 41821371 (VIR-7832) COVID-19
60976081 (CD96) cancer C. difficile vaccine1
2982772 (RIP1-k) psoriasis SAM (rabies model) vaccine
38823471 (FimH antagonist) uUTI S. aureus vaccine1
3739937 (maturation inhibitor) HIV COVID-19 (SK Bioscience) vaccine1,3,5
3923868 (Pl4kβ inhibitor) viral COPD exacerbations SAM (COVID-19 model) vaccine
Only the most advanced indications are shown for each asset.
1 In-licence or other alliance relationship 6 Otilimab for COVID-19 therapy in phase II EC: endometrial cancer; GC: gonorrhoea;
with third party 7 Blenrep is in phase I/II/III in earlier lines HBV: hepatitis B; HNSCC: head and neck
2 Additional indications also under investigation of therapy for multiple myeloma (approved squamous cell carcinoma; NSCLC: non
3 GSK is contributing pandemic adjuvant agent in 4L+) s Pm BCa :l l p c re imll alu ryn g b ic la ian rc ye r c; h O oA la: n o gs it te iso ;a Pr Oth Mri :t pis r; o of
to COVID-19 vaccines collaborations BTC: biliary tract cancer; COPD: chronic of mechanism; PrEP: pre-exposure prophylaxis.;
4 ICOS HNSCC is a phase II/III study with obstructive pulmonary disease; RA: rheumatoid arthritis; SLE: systemic lupus
registrational potential DMD: duchennemuscular dystrophy; erythematosus; SS: synovial sarcoma;
DME: diabetic macular edema; TB: tuberculosis; uUTI: uncomplicated
5 In phase I/II study dMMR: deficient mismatch repair; urinary tract infection.
26 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Innovation continued
Consumer Healthcare
Our 2019 joint venture with Pfizer brought together two A consumer trend, particularly in the respiratory health category,
complementary brand portfolios, making us number one is the increasing preference for natural remedies. Reflecting this
globally, in terms of market share, in over-the-counter (OTC) trend, and increasing consumer concerns on the impact of air
medicines, therapeutic oral health, and vitamins, minerals and pollution to everyday health, we launched Otrivin Breathe Clean
supplements.1 The joint venture also established R&D centres in Europe, a naturals-based saline spray that enables cleaner
of excellence in Richmond, in the US, focused on OTC and breathing by washing out impurities like airborne pollutants,
wellness, Weybridge, in the UK, for oral health and Suzhou pollen and viruses trapped in the nose to help restore the nose’s
in China, a dedicated hub for locally relevant innovation. natural filtering function. In cough and cold, we introduced
a natural ingredient-based cough relief extension of Theraflu
In 2020 we delivered 28 first-market launches for new
in Spain and Portugal, in both liquid and lozenge formats.
innovations across our categories. In total we rolled out more
We also launched Robitussin Naturals, which incorporates
than 200 recent innovations into new markets. These included
herbal extracts to aid cough relief, in the US.
Sensodyne Sensitivity & Gum and Polident Cushion and
Comfort. In 2020 we filed 17 new invention patent applications Consumers are increasingly taking control of their wellbeing
and were granted 22 European and US patents across our and see multivitamins as important in meeting their nutritional
categories. needs, but insight has told us that there is a challenge with
swallowing big pills, representing a usage barrier. To address
Delivering best-in-class innovation
this, we launched a ‘Minis’ version of our power brand Centrum
We combine deep human understanding and trusted science
in the US, which is 50% of the size of the regular pill. The minis
to deliver innovations that meet the needs of our consumers.
platform will be used for future innovations.
In June we successfully launched Voltaren Arthritis Pain, the
first OTC prescription-strength, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory We launched a number of major, locally relevant innovations
(NSAID) topical gel for arthritis pain, to help the nearly 30 million outside the US/Europe. In China, consumer research has
people in the US who have osteoarthritis. Since launch, Voltaren boosted our understanding of the health needs of different
Arthritis Pain accounted for 79% of category growth in 2020 genders. In 2020 we built on these insights with the introduction
in the adult topical pain relief segment in the US. of gender-specific formulations of Caltrate, the leading calcium
supplement in China and a key ‘local star’ brand within our
Our research shows that consumers want to take as few
vitamins, minerals and supplements category. The innovation
medicines as possible, yet many use both ibuprofen and
is aimed at the increasingly health and wellbeing conscious
paracetamol/acetaminophen – which work in different ways
25 to 35-year-old demographic, who are at risk from bone-
– when treating their headaches, muscle aches, arthritis and
related injuries but are not typical consumers of calcium
other joint pain. So we launched Advil Dual Action in the US,
supplements. In India, where there was a gap in the topical
the first formulation to combine ibuprofen and paracetamol/
gels pain relief market for a fast-acting product that provides
acetaminophen in a single product that is scientifically backed
long-lasting relief, we launched Iodex Ultragel. This product
to provide greater efficacy than the individual components.
harnesses the brand's trusted, strong local heritage with the
In oral health, we continued to roll out Pronamel Intensive Voltaren formulation that is clinically proven to provide deeper
Enamel Repair, launching in an additional 11 markets. Since penetration in affected areas for long-lasting relief. This
launching in 2019, 6% of US households have tried the product, innovation has been the most successful launch across the
with 39% going on to buy it again. In two years, the innovation Indian topical gels or cream category over the past five years.
has generated annual global retail value sales of £49 million.
External partnerships
We also launched Sensodyne Sensitivity & Gum into new
We look beyond our own business to fuel our innovation
markets following its first introduction in 2019. This innovation,
pipeline and build knowledge and capability. In 2020, we
which is now available in more than 50 markets, has generated
assessed more than 60 opportunities for partnership across
more than £75 million in retail value sales since first launch.
our categories. Many of these projects are in the due diligence
phase and range from sustainable products and packaging
to device technology.
1 Based on Nicholas Hall's DB6 Global OTC database 2019 (on the basis
of consumption at manufacturers' price)
GSK Annual Report 2020 27Performance
We delivered our guidance for the year, offsetting the significant impact
of COVID-19 on adult vaccinations, with strong sales performance from
key growth drivers in HIV, Respiratory, Oncology and Consumer Healthcare,
and effective cost control.
Pharmaceuticals Vaccines Consumer Healthcare
– Total 2020 turnover £17 billion, – Total 2020 turnover £7 billion, – Total 2020 turnover £10 billion
-3% AER, -1% CER -2% AER, -1% CER. COVID-19 +12% AER, +14% CER (pro-
– Sales of new and specialty adversely impacted adult forma -2% CER, +4% CER
pharmaceuticals £9.7 billion vaccination in particular excluding brands divested/
+11% AER, +12% CER – Shingrix launched to new, self-pay under review)
– Strong commercial execution markets China, Belgium, the – Strong progress on joint venture
of key growth products, including Netherlands, Japan and Sweden. integration
launches in HIV, Oncology and Strong performance in Europe, – Exceeded target of raising
Respiratory reflecting robust demand in £1 billion through non-core
– Accelerated digital capabilities, Germany brand divestments
supporting enhanced HCP – Further strengthened Bexsero’s – On track to deliver synergies of
engagement and strong supply profile with compelling real-world £500 million annual cost savings
performance despite disruption evidence in multiple settings by 2022
from COVID-19 pandemic – Strong flu sales across all regions
– Overall strong supply performance
Read more below Read more on page 30 Read more on pages 31 to 32
Pharmaceuticals
Performance We remain industry leaders in respiratory where rapid indication
Pharmaceuticals turnover in the year was £17,056 million, expansion, including hypereosinophilic syndrome approval for
down 3% AER, 1% CER. Respiratory sales were up 22% Nucala in the US, and increased uptake of the therapy’s home
AER, 23% CER, to £3,749 million, on growth of Trelegy, administration options, with launches in France, Spain and
Nucala and Relvar/Breo. HIV sales were flat at AER, up Japan, reinforced our leadership in eosinophil-driven diseases.
1% CER, to £4,876 million, with growth in Juluca and Nucala delivered almost £1 billion in sales, a growth of 29%
Dovato partly offset by declines in Tivicay and Triumeq. AER, 30% CER. Trelegy Ellipta, now in 43 markets, further
New and specialty product1 sales were £9.7 billion, up increased its market share in chronic obstructive pulmonary
11% AER, 12% CER. Sales of Established Pharmaceuticals disease with positive early signals from its launches in asthma
declined 16% AER, 15% CER to £7,332 million. in the US and Japan. In HIV, our two-drug regimen therapies,
Dovato and Juluca more than doubled sales in 2020 to £869
Oncology sales were £372 million, up 62% AER and CER,
million and our HIV portfolio grew with 2020 launches for
with strong launches of Zejula and Blenrep and strengthened
Cabenuva, Rukobia and paediatric Tivicay PD. In immuno-
commercial capabilities. Zejula, our PARP inhibitor, continued
inflammation Benlysta, which has grown consistently in an
to grow market share and sales increased 48% AER and CER,
expanding market, again saw double-digit growth. At the end
to £339 million. Blenrep, our first-in-class anti-BCMA treatment
of the year Benlysta’s indication in the US was expanded to
for multiple myeloma, which was approved in August, had sales
include lupus nephritis.
of £33 million.
See Group financial review on page 56 for more detail.
1 New and Specialty products comprises Pharmaceuticals excluding
Established Pharmaceuticals
28 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Performance continued
Building specialty capability We entered into a long-term partnership with Samsung
Reflecting the shift in our portfolio to innovative specialty Biologics to access additional large-scale manufacturing
care products, including oncology, we continued to invest capacity and supply of our innovative assets. This capacity
in our capabilities in these areas, particularly in the quality will supplement our existing biopharma manufacturing network
and experience of our medical and commercial teams. and will vary in extent, depending on our needs. The partnership
In 2020, over 500 of our new hires were in oncology. will initially involve production of Benlysta, with first commercial
supply expected in 2022, and further GSK specialty care
In 2020 we rolled out our revised incentive programme for
products coming online thereafter.
sales representatives to more countries. The evolved approach,
which aims to drive personal accountability and competitiveness, Strong business performance requires an efficient, reliable
is allowing us to attract and retain the best salespeople and supply chain. We are improving the competitiveness of our
build engagement and performance in our sales teams. supply chain, creating one logistics route-to-market for
We have implemented this programme while upholding pharmaceutical and vaccines products, and further simplifying
responsible sales and marketing standards. our manufacturing footprint and central functions. In 2020
we completed the divestment of our sites in Verona, Italy and
Transforming interactions with HCPs and patients
Mississauga, Canada. We also announced the divestment
Customer and patient focus is central to successful
of the Poznan manufacturing site, Poland, the closure of the
performance. In 2020 we continued to strengthen GSK’s
Boronia facility, Australia, and our intention to sell the Vemgal,
connection, and heighten our profile, with healthcare
India site. These network changes are expected to be complete
professionals (HCPs), to help meet their and their patients’
by 2022.
needs. While restrictions on in-person meetings were in place
throughout much of the year, our sales teams continued to Robust supply performance
engage customers, adapting their interactions to reflect HCP Our productivity levels increased by 5% in 2020, contributing
preference and local guidance, and using online and digital to a 3% average rise per annum over the past three years.
tools to enhance engagement. Alongside regular customer This reflects the progress made in driving operational efficiency
dialogue, digital solutions were core to successful commercial through digital and automation technologies while performing
launches, with virtual meetings and educational activities strongly against safety, quality and compliance measures.
continuing despite the pandemic. To ensure we deliver what Our service levels, measured as on-time, in-full, improved
HCPs want, we are leveraging data and analytics to shape again in 2020, remaining in the top quartile of our industry.
our interactions. For example, we launched an app for our We maintained supply continuity and service levels despite
sales representatives that combines insights from multiple data the impact of COVID-19, with thousands of manufacturing and
sources to inform their next actions in line with HCPs’ priorities. supply employees continuing to work at GSK locations during
lockdown. All 40 regulatory inspections of Pharmaceuticals
In China, in response to patient insights, we developed a
sites were satisfactory.
one-stop shop patient support app that allows medication
to be ordered directly from GSK through online retail giant Digital transformation
Alibaba, rather than pharmacies. The app is integrated into The resilience and flexibility of our supply chain reflects our
WeChat, the messaging, social media and mobile payment continuing investment in becoming a digital and data-driven
app, and connects to GSK China’s patient support programmes organisation. In 2020, we made significant progress in
and disease education content. accelerating digital competency and capability and developing
new ways of working. This contributed to business continuity
Collectively these measures enabled us to maintain or grow
and maintained productivity as many people across our
our share of voice in key markets.
organisation worked from home during COVID-19 restrictions,
Investing in a specialty-ready, competitive supply chain drove operational efficiency and unlocked opportunities
Our supply chain transformation is progressing in line with to improve our performance. Measures included applying
the shift in our portfolio to innovative specialty care products. advanced analytics to drive efficiencies across the business,
Despite the disruption caused by COVID-19, we introduced from supply chain management and manufacturing to our
several new products in 2020, including first-market launches commercial operations. A digital value stream map, for example,
for Cabenuva, Rukobia, Blenrep and Duvroq. Ongoing has enabled end-to-end visibility of our supply chain, enabling
investments in facilities, people and manufacturing partnerships users to track specific brands and sites of interest, and fuelling
will continue to support the rapid launch of specialty medicines, faster decision making. We continue to harness data to learn
while accelerating delivery across our portfolio. more about the impact our commercial activities have on
We committed £88 million to expand our next generation appropriate prescribing and to unlock smarter, faster
biopharma manufacturing facility in Upper Merion, Pennsylvania, interactions with our customers.
in parallel with our accelerated development of the technological
and scientific capability of our people. Following the expansion
of our Rockville, Maryland biopharma manufacturing facility in
2019, preparations are on track to start commercial operations
in 2022.
GSK Annual Report 2020 29Performance continued
Vaccines
Performance We continue to adjust our manufacturing network to meet
Vaccines turnover declined 2% AER, 1% CER to £6,982 our future needs, including investments to support growth
million, primarily driven by the adverse impact of the COVID-19 of our existing products as well as our pipeline assets. We
pandemic on Hepatitis vaccines, DTPa-containing vaccines, are prioritising investments in both manufacturing technologies
Synflorix and Bexsero, together with the divestment of Rabipur and digital capabilities. These investments allow us to transform
and Encepur. This decline was partly offset by higher sales of data into insights across manufacturing, supply and quality,
Influenza vaccines across all regions and by growth in Shingrix resulting in improved productivity and more effective use of
sales to £2 billion, up 10% AER, 11% CER, together with a working capital.
strong performance from Cervarix in China.
In the first quarter of the year, both our sites in Gödöllö,
Vaccines performance across all regions was affected by lower Hungary, and Marburg, Germany, passed US Food and Drug
demand due to limited visits to healthcare practitioners and Administration (FDA) inspections. In May 2020, FDA approval
points of vaccination during the pandemic and government of our Singapore site meant that all our strategic Vaccines sites
stay-at-home directives. In areas where lockdowns were lifted, are now FDA-approved.
wellness visits and vaccination rates recovered, with paediatric
Digital performance
vaccination near pre-COVID levels by the end of Q2 2020,
As we advance towards our goal of becoming a digital
while adolescent and adult immunisations improved at a slower
and data-driven organisation, we continue to harness new
pace. US back-to-school vaccinations were disrupted because
technologies to develop better, more efficient ways of working
schools and universities delayed or reversed in-person tuition,
business-wide. We are, for example, deploying robotic
which elongated the back-to-school vaccination season into
automation ‘bots’ across the Vaccines organisation, including
Q4 2020. Adult wellness visits returned to prior year levels at
in manufacturing, quality and R&D. We had deployed 76 bots
the end of Q3 2020 supported by seasonal flu vaccination and
by the end of 2020, increasing efficiency and cost savings.
declined late in Q4 2020 as pandemic conditions worsened.
Despite this short-term impact on vaccination rates we remain During the year we delivered several data and analytics
very confident in demand, particularly for Shingrix which products to help improve scientific productivity, optimise
remains a key growth driver. manufacturing processes and boost our commercial
performance.
As a global company, we are committed to supplying vaccines
worldwide. Our growth strategy is focused on improving our In the second half of 2020, we started a digital manufacturing
geographic presence in the two largest vaccines markets – execution system for more than 50 production lines in 10 sites
the US, which represents 51% of the sector, and China.1 that currently use paper batch recording. The system will
be deployed over the next three to four years, with benefits
See Group financial review on page 58 for more detail.
including operational efficiency, lead-time reduction, and
Supply performance improvements in compliance, yield and robustness. The system
Our Vaccines business has 12 manufacturing sites, across will feed into making data-driven decisions in manufacturing
nine countries. This global network gives us a strategic and supply.
supply capability, which enabled us to produce and deliver
We are improving our commercial teams’ performance, with
over 580 million doses and achieve our best ever on-time,
data-rich technology platforms optimising numerous processes,
in-full delivery supply metric, ensuring critical vaccines were
from tender allocation to targeted marketing. We have also
available to patients during the pandemic.
extended our award-winning digital tool MyVaccinationHub,
Our increased Shingrix and Bexsero output followed additional which helps parents track their children’s vaccination records,
investment in our supply network, including bringing new to more national markets. In addition, GSK is working with
production capacity onstream for Bexsero. Our continued health technology company Philips on its Pregnancy+
efforts to improve yield, productivity and throughput have and Baby+ apps to educate parents on the importance of
expanded our supply capacity, and we remain on track to vaccination. With the potential to reach almost 2 million parents
begin manufacturing Shingrix from a new facility by 2024. a day across the globe, this is a huge step forward in giving
Our improved supply performance on Shingrix allowed us our target audience access to factual, medically approved
to announce further launch countries earlier than anticipated. information. The partnership is already live in Brazil, Canada,
Switzerland, Poland, Spain, Germany, Italy, Australia, Russia
and Mexico.
1 Internal data
30 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Performance continued
Consumer Healthcare
Performance In 2020 we also completed the sale of Horlicks and other
On a reported basis, sales grew 12% AER and 14% CER consumer health food drink brands to Hindustan Unilever
to £10,033 million for the full year, largely driven by the Limited, after receiving the required regulatory approvals.
inclusion of the Pfizer portfolio, partly offset by brands As part of the agreement, Hindustan Unilever Limited will sell
divested/under review. and distribute our OTC and oral health brands in India through
a distribution arrangement, although we retain brand ownership.
On a pro-forma basis, sales declined 2% CER, but grew
During the year, we sold our stake in Hindustan Unilever Limited,
4% CER excluding brands divested/under review, reflecting
which was part of the transaction. We had always intended
the underlying strength of brands across the portfolio and
to sell our stake at the appropriate time, with the timing of the
categories, strong growth in e-commerce, and successful
sale enabling us to generate a greater financial return than
execution meeting evolving consumer demand as a result
originally anticipated.
of the pandemic.
Meeting consumer needs amid behaviour shifts
Our portfolio of everyday health products gives us industry-
Among its many far-reaching impacts, COVID-19 has
leading positions across a number of categories, including pain
accelerated certain consumer trends that were already
relief, respiratory, therapeutic oral health and vitamins, minerals
underway. One such trend has been the increasing
and supplements.1 Our growth strategy is based on prioritised
convergence of digital and health, including the rapid
investment in our nine global power brands and 15 local stars,
expansion of digital commerce. Overall, in 2020 our global
brands which are concentrated in key geographies.
digital commerce business grew by 67% on the previous year.
Our operating model is critical to the successful implementation Throughout 2020 we outperformed our peers, gaining market
of the strategy and growth for our joint venture. In 2020, share on our key brands in our focus markets.2 In the US, we
we continued our progress by rolling out our new marketing grew ahead of our categories, for example gaining a market
operating model which allows us to develop best-in-class leading position in toothpaste on Amazon and in topical pain
brand programmes in our strategic brand and market choices with Voltaren. We have also made great strides towards
that are relevant globally and locally. Building and executing a improving our customer experiences, including launching our
differentiated pipeline and accelerating speed-to-market are at first direct-to-consumer online store for ChapStick in the US.
the heart of our innovation strategy and our innovation operating Since launch, the store has acquired more than 2,000 new
model, also launched in 2020, sets out, practically, how this will customers and sold 116,000 sticks, and we are ahead of our
be achieved. plans on data capture and conversion. We have continued
See Group financial review on page 59 for more detail. to improve our consumer experience and grow our first party
data ahead of expected in the US, and we are leveraging our
Strong progress on joint venture integration
new insights back into the business.
We have made significant progress in integrating the two
businesses that make up our Consumer Healthcare joint More broadly, we have increased our investment in digital
venture. More than 87% of our markets have completed legal capability across our business to improve our overall speed
closes, enabling over 95% of the legacy Pfizer employee and efficiency. This has included accelerating the digital
population to formally move into GSK, with most leadership transformation of our marketing functions, while advancing
roles confirmed. 83% of markets have completed their systems capability in new areas such as R&D and supply chain.
cutovers, operating under one order and one invoice for Data, a key enabler for growth, is a particular area of focus
customers. Markets which have completed their cutovers as it allows us to better understand our consumers and
account for 97% of global sales. customers and make smarter decisions. In 2020 we created
a dedicated data team made up of data scientists, innovation
We remain on track to deliver synergies of £500 million annual
specialists, user experience designers and data apprentices to
cost savings by 2022. This will be drawn from areas such as
build the data strategy and governance processes in readiness
network rationalisation, logistics, infrastructure, advertising
for a future standalone company. The team is also focused on
and marketing. We met our target of realising £1 billion from
building data literacy across our business to enable us to extract
divestments of non-core brands, and this process is still
the most value from our data, which will accelerate our digital
ongoing. ThermaCare, which included our manufacturing
transformation.
site in Albany, Georgia, was a key divestment as it lifted
integration restrictions for the two businesses in Europe. We are also investing in data-related technology, including
artificial intelligence and machine learning across our R&D,
Despite operating during a complex joint venture integration
supply chain and marketing teams. This will allow us to
where the majority of office-based teams have worked remotely,
operate more efficiently and accelerate speed-to-market.
we have seen faster decision-making, more effective meetings
and greater collaboration focused on doing what’s needed for
consumers. This was reflected in a 16% increase in our survey
results around clarity of single point accountabilities and
effective decision-making, and a 17% rise in favourability 1 Based on Nicholas Hall's DB6 Global OTC database 2019 (on the basis
of consumption at manufacturers' price)
on ‘straight talk’ conversations.
2 Internal data
GSK Annual Report 2020 31Performance continued
We continue to enhance the digital capability and literacy Recognising the critical importance of purpose-driven
of all our people. In 2020 we launched our Digital Commerce leadership, we have created a new virtual nine-month
Academy, an online learning platform with training modules, development programme for our 140 most senior leaders
playbooks, planning frameworks and other resources to help in GSK Consumer Healthcare to help them identify a sense
embed core digital commerce learnings and behaviours. of personal and collective purpose to accelerate our growth
Since launch in August, more than 1,800 employees across ambitions. We also plan to further invest in the development
over 60 countries have completed training through the platform. of our people and will use our First Line Leader programmes
The academy complements our digital accelerator programme, to build capability for around 500 colleagues new to
which we rolled out in 2020 in our Europe, Middle East and leadership roles.
Africa region, following a successful launch in Asia-Pacific
Prioritising safety and supply through
in 2019. The programme is designed to drive sales through
unprecedented challenges
digital commerce and promote a digital first culture by
We continued to drive decision-making closer to the consumer
integrating external digital experts into our teams.
with more regional accountability across our supply chain.
Another trend accelerated by the pandemic has been the fact We accelerated this approach at the start of the COVID-19
that consumers are more proactive in managing their own health pandemic, responding with agility and speed to changing
and wellness, with vitamins, minerals and supplements category consumer demand while upholding our commitment to safety.
being the biggest beneficiary. In 2020 sales of our vitamins,
Our first priority through the pandemic was to ensure the
minerals and supplements brands grew in the high teens per
wellbeing of our employees while continuing to operate our
cent, with particularly strong performances from power brand
manufacturing sites. We increased safety measures and
Centrum and local stars Emergen-C in the US and Caltrate
support for our critical production employees including
in China. All three grew in double digits for the year.
adjusting shift patterns to minimise employees overlap, contact
HCPs significantly influence the health behaviours of our tracing protocols, and regionally driven support packages,
consumers and this has heightened as a result of COVID-19. for example groceries, site lunches and safe transport.
Consumers are increasingly relying upon doctors, dentists
Despite operating in unprecedented circumstances, we
and pharmacists to be a trustworthy source of self-care
continued to deliver products that really matter to consumers.
guidance. Our expert, field-based representatives have
We built additional capacity for the most in-demand products,
continued to strengthen relationships with HCPs. Within
which fell into two broad categories: products like Panadol,
weeks of the COVID-19 outbreak, we accelerated our adoption
which provide symptomatic relief, and those with immunity-
of remote detailing, virtual conferences and roundtables and
boosting properties, like Emergen-C.
saw more than 1,000 expert field-based representatives
across the world fully operational in the new ways of working. From a regional perspective, we continued to deliver with
On World Pharmacist Day, in September, we partnered with a high level of service to customers in the APAC and EMEA.
the International Pharmaceutical Federation to raise awareness In the USA we had challenges to continue to meet the high level
on an area of common interest, minimising the impact of air of service our customers expect. This was caused not only by
pollution on people’s health and wellbeing. We developed significant growth in our immunity brands but also some supply
a targeted digital campaign for pharmacists in 10 key countries, disruptions and precautionary product recalls.
with the creation of social media assets to drive awareness We have addressed the increase in demand by putting in
and engagement around the topic. The campaign reached place significant extra capacity both internally and at our
more than one million pharmacists, and engagement with contract manufacturing organisations. We also continue
the content was more than seven times the industry average. to improve supply chain resilience through our network by
The partnership also allowed us to reach pharmacists we continuing to drive a culture of quality improvement and
had not previously been able to and has laid the foundations building additional sources of supply continuity for both
for us to build longer-term relationships with them. finished products and critical raw materials.
Leadership and engagement In 2020 we announced plans to build capacity at our
Our focus on the quality of leadership, driven by appointments, manufacturing sites in Civac, in Mexico; Guayama, in Puerto
formal development programmes and increased efforts to Rico; Pulogadung, in Indonesia; and Cape Town, in South
support employees’ physical and mental wellbeing, has Africa. As part of the streamlining of our network, we closed
contributed to a 91% positive survey score from employees our site in Sligo, Ireland, and announced the closure of our site
feeling actively encouraged to support their health and wellbeing. in Carlisle in the US. We have also ceased production at our
Through the joint venture integration process we have created San Jose site in Costa Rica, with a sale of the site expected
a new and diverse Consumer Healthcare leadership team with to be completed in 2021. Following the divestments of the
broad industry experience from both legacy GSK and Pfizer ThermaCare business outside North America and Vesterålens
businesses alongside talent from the wider FMCG sector. Naturprodukter dietary supplements, we also announced the
We have also improved the depth of our talent – selected closure of our site in Cluj, Romania. The divestment of our
from both legacy businesses into our key roles. Nutrition business to Hindustan Unilever included our sites
in Nabha, Rajahmundry and Sonepat in India.
32 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Trust
Trust is one of our three long-term priorities and is crucial to our purpose,
enabling us to add value for our shareholders and society.
Progress
– Committed to ambitious new – Partnered to launch the $1 billion – Formed partnerships to better
environmental sustainability goals: AMR Action Fund aiming to bring prepare for future pandemics and
net zero impact on climate and net two to four novel antibiotics to ensure access to future COVID-19
positive impact on nature by 2030 patients by 2030 treatments and vaccines. Including
– Strong performance against – FDA and EMA approved an age- through the Trinity Challenge,
our ESG benchmarks appropriate formulation of Tivicay, our industry commitment with the
– Licensed our TB candidate for children living with HIV weighing Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation
vaccine to the Bill and Melinda at least 3kg and from four weeks and our engagement with the
Gates Medical Research Institute of age COVAX facility
for continued development – Set new aspirational targets for – Record response (85%) to our
gender and for race and ethnicity, employee survey, with engagement
to improve representation at VP score of 84% (up 6%)
level and above, and introduced
mandatory inclusion and diversity
training for all employees
Our Trust priority focuses on a broad range of ESG aspects External benchmarking
and supports our ability to create value for society and – DJSI: Ranked 2nd in the pharmaceuticals industry group
shareholders. Stakeholders, particularly investors, are for the 2020 Dow Jones Sustainability Index
increasingly focused on how companies manage ESG factors – ATMI: Ranked 1st in the 2021 Access to Medicine Index
from both a value creation and a risk management perspective
– FTSE4Good: Member of the FTSE4Good Index since 2004
(see Risk Management from page 43). Strong Trust and ESG
performance ensures we remain attractive to investors, helps – CDP: Scored A in CDP Water and B in CDP Carbon,
recruit and retain talent, mitigates risk and builds trust with and named CDP Supplier Engagement Leader
those stakeholders who influence our operating environment – Sustainalytics: Leading position in Sustainalytics
(see Stakeholder engagement on page 16). – MSCI: AA rating
We have 13 Trust commitments in the ESG areas where – Vigeo Eiris: Ranked 1st in the pharmaceuticals sector
GSK can make the biggest difference. In 2018, when we set
Our approach to reporting
these commitments, we worked with an independent third party
In this Trust section, we report progress against our
to conduct a materiality assessment to identify the ESG issues
13 commitments. Online, we publish more detailed
most relevant to our stakeholders and to our business. The
information on our contribution to the SDGs, an ESG
commitments help us respond to challenges and opportunities
performance summary and our UN Global Compact
within our industry and broader society (see pages 12 to 15)
Communication on Progress, Global Reporting Initiative
and contribute to many of the UN Sustainable Development
index, Sustainability Accounting Standards Board index
Goals (SDGs), especially Goal 3: to ensure healthy lives and
and assurance statements.
promote wellbeing for all, at all ages.
GSK.com: ESG performance summary • Our contribution to the SDGs
Our Corporate Responsibility (CR) Committee oversees our
progress against our commitments and how the company is
addressing the evolving views and expectations of our broad
range of stakeholders. GSK’s Corporate Executive Team and
senior management also oversee implementation of our Trust
commitments and report regularly to the CR Committee
(see pages 90 and 102).
GSK.com: GSK Materiality assessment
GSK Annual Report 2020 33Trust continued
Science and technology
The 2020 COVID-19 pandemic showed the vital importance In early 2021, GSK, PATH and Bharat announced a product
of using our science and technology to innovate, tackle the transfer agreement for the malaria vaccine. This is a significant
global impact of disease and prepare for future pandemics. step in ensuring the long-term sustainable supply of the vaccine.
Tafenoquine (Krintafel/Kozenis) is our single dose radical cure
New medical innovations
treatment for P. vivax malaria, developed in partnership with
Our commitment is to develop differentiated, high-quality Medicines for Malaria Venture. The prevalence of P. vivax peaks
and needed medicines, vaccines and consumer healthcare in children aged two to six years old. We presented data in 2020
products to improve health showing tafenoquine was 95% effective at preventing relapse
after four months, in children and adolescents to age 16.
We use cutting-edge science and technology to discover and
develop innovative medicines, vaccines and consumer healthcare HIV
products. See more about our R&D on pages 18 to 27, including In June, the US FDA approved the first-ever dispersible tablet
how we are developing innovations to combat COVID-19. formulation of dolutegravir, Tivicay PD. Before FDA approval, we
began producing the dispersible tablets at our own financial risk
Global health R&D to support rapid rollout. Tivicay PD is the first integrase inhibitor
available as a once-daily tablet for oral suspension for children
Our commitment is to improve global health impact
with HIV weighing at least 3kg and from four weeks of age.
through R&D for infectious diseases that affect children
The FDA also passed updated dosing recommendations for the
and young people in developing countries, focusing on
already approved Tivicay 50mg film-coated tablet in paediatric
HIV, malaria and tuberculosis
HIV patients weighing 20kg and above. This will help to close
We are working to translate scientific discoveries into impactful the gap between HIV treatment options available for adults and
solutions for the world’s most vulnerable patients. Where children. Further to this approval, in January 2021, the EMA also
appropriate, we transfer our innovation and technology to other granted marketing authorisation for Tivicay 5mg dispersible
organisations with the right capability and geographic reach. tablets and included updated dosing recommendations for
We partner with others to optimise development of our Tivicay 50mg film-coated tablets for children with HIV.
candidate medicines, vaccines and technologies and drive
Through our public-private partnership with the Clinton Health
access for those who need them.
Access Initiative, Unitaid and two generic manufacturers
We also pursue early discovery global health research, (Mylan and Macleods), we continue to expedite the development,
particularly in neglected tropical diseases. We have two registration and market entry of generic formulations of paediatric
established scientific research centres focused on developing dolutegravir in resource-limited settings. A key milestone was
new vaccines and medicines for global health research: recently achieved when Mylan and Macleods submitted new
the Vaccines Global Health Institute (GVGH) and our drug applications for a scored dolutegravir 10mg dispersible
Pharma R&D unit in Tres Cantos respectively. tablet for tentative approval under the FDA President’s
Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) scheme. Mylan
GSK.com: Using our science for global health
received tentative FDA approval in November 2020. This is the
Tuberculosis
fastest generic manufacturers have filed and the shortest gap
In 2020, GSK joined the Project to Accelerate New Treatments between originator approval and generic medicine approval.
for Tuberculosis (PAN-TB), a collaboration aiming to develop a
pan-TB regimen (one that’s effective in all forms of TB, including Health security
drug-resistant strains). We will work to identify the best possible
combination of medicines to make TB treatments shorter, better Our commitment is to help the world to better prepare
and safer than the current standard of care multi-drug regimen. for future disease outbreaks with pandemic potential,
and tackle antimicrobial resistance
We have developed a TB candidate vaccine which, in a
phase IIb trial, has demonstrated the potential to reduce Pandemic preparedness
active pulmonary TB by half in adults with latent TB infection. We have taken a broad approach to developing COVID-19
In January 2020, we licensed the vaccine to the Bill & Melinda solutions, see page 24 for further details on how we are
Gates Medical Research Institute for continued development. applying our science to find COVID-19 innovations. We also
believe that there are many areas that could help improve
Malaria
future pandemic preparedness.
Our RTS,S vaccine is the first vaccine to help protect
children against the deadliest form of malaria, P. falciparum. In 2020, we joined the industry commitment to expand global
The WHO-coordinated pilot implementation programme access for COVID-19 diagnostics, therapeutics and vaccines,
led by national ministries of health, and in partnership with facilitated by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. Collaborating
PATH and GSK, has been ongoing in Ghana, Kenya and and aligning resources across industry and government should
Malawi since April 2019. GSK has dispatched more than enable a faster path out of the current COVID-19 crisis, and
2.5 million vaccine doses, with more than 500,000 children also lay the foundation for a strong pandemic preparedness
having been reached with at least one dose of RTS,S so far. ecosystem for the future.
34 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Trust continued
In 2020, we became a founding member of the Trinity Challenge In 2020, we partnered with more than 20 major biopharmaceutical
collaboration, alongside Google, Microsoft, Facebook and others. companies and WHO, the European Investment Bank and the
Our collective vision is to safeguard the lives and livelihoods of Wellcome Trust to launch the $1 billion AMR Action Fund.
one billion more people by using data and analytics to better The fund aims to bring two to four novel antibiotics to patients
predict and prevent outbreaks, epidemics and pandemics. by 2030.
GSK.com: Industry COVID-19 joint communique In 2020, we trained over 70,000 healthcare professionals
across 30 countries on the appropriate use of antibiotics.
Addressing antimicrobial resistance (AMR)
AMR represents one of the gravest threats to global public We have been working with the AMR Industry Alliance, which
health. GSK is playing a leading role in the industry’s response, is setting new global limits for antibiotic discharges. We have
ranking first among the large pharmaceutical companies in the also audited, and improved where needed, our antibiotic supply
Access to Medicine Foundation’s AMR Benchmark. chain, which includes 20 GSK factories and 45 supplier
factories in 19 countries. We are on track to ensure that factory
We have 28 R&D projects targeting priority pathogens,
discharges are negligible and conform to the alliance’s standards
including pathogens deemed ‘critical’ and ‘urgent’ by WHO
by the end of 2021. Currently, 100% of GSK's factories and
and the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).
71% of our suppliers’ factories are fully compliant.
Fifteen relate to vaccines and we continue to see vaccination
as a major pathway to fight AMR. See page 21 for further GSK.com: Preparing for future disease threats
details on our pipeline.
Affordability and availability
We are making our products affordable and available to more In developing countries, we use innovative pricing structures
people around the world through responsible pricing, strategic to extend product reach (see pages below). Our tiered pricing
access programmes and partnerships. model for vaccines is based on four widely-recognised World
Bank gross national income country classifications of high,
Pricing
upper-middle, lower-middle and low-income countries. Each
Our commitment is to improve the health of millions of tier has price ceilings and floors which progressively decrease
people each year by making our products available at through the tiers from high to low-income countries. For
responsible prices that are sustainable for our business medicines in low-income countries, we do not file patents for
our medicines nor enforce historic patents. This allows generic
In the US, the pricing of all our new products reflects the value
companies to manufacture and supply generic versions of GSK
delivered to patients, healthcare systems and wider society
medicines in those countries.
compared to other available alternatives, and supports
innovation to meet future healthcare needs. GSK.com: Pricing and access strategies
The average net price (after discounts, rebates or other
Product reach
allowances) for our products in the US decreased by about
3.2%1,2 annually over the past five years while the average list Our commitment is to use access strategies to reach
price rose by 5.7%1,2. In 2020, our combined average net price 800 million underserved people in developing countries
for our pharmaceutical and vaccines portfolio in the US fell with our products by 2025
by about 0.7%1 while the average list price rose by 3.2%1.
Since we set our product reach target in 2018, our products
We offer various types of patient support, including patient have reached over 267 million people.3
assistance programmes, coupon and co-pay programmes
Our commitment to Gavi
and reimbursement support to help ensure appropriate access
Our tiered pricing principles mean that we reserve our lowest
to our medicines. In 2020, we provided prescribed medicines
vaccines prices for organisations such as Gavi. GSK is one
and vaccines to more than 95,000 low-income uninsured,
of the largest suppliers of vaccines to Gavi: since 2010 we
underinsured, and Medicare Part D patients through GSK
have supplied more than 856 million doses of vaccines. Our
and ViiV Healthcare’s Patient Assistance Programs Foundation.
partnership has allowed us to introduce and rapidly scale up
In Europe, we engage with many stakeholders to develop access to new vaccines, that might otherwise have taken years
approaches that ensure sustainable healthcare systems and to reach children in low-income countries. In 2020, we confirmed
continued access to our innovative medicines. For example, our ongoing supply of Cervarix to Gavi to support its continued
the pricing of Zejula, our medicine for ovarian cancer, reflects efforts to protect girls from human papillomavirus.
the value it delivers (to patients, caregivers, payers and society)
We provided our pneumococcal vaccine, Synflorix, to eight
by demonstrating cost-effectiveness and a predictable budget.
Gavi-eligible countries and one former Gavi country at a
discounted price, reaching an estimated 17 million children in
2020. Our Rotarix vaccine against rotavirus reached 25 million
1 Calculated across GSK and ViiV Healthcare products.
children across 32 Gavi-eligible countries and four former
2 5-year CAGR calculated Jan 2016-Dec 2020.
Gavi countries. In addition, our oral polio vaccine, supplied to
3 Total excludes reach through albendazole donations which will be
assessed in 2025. Unicef for polio eradication, reached almost 22 million people.
GSK Annual Report 2020 35Trust continued
Voluntary licensing In 2020, ViiV Healthcare Positive Action launched a new
ViiV Healthcare’s voluntary licensing agreements allow 2020-30 strategy and vision. This continues to explore
18 generic manufacturers to produce and sell low-cost single innovative ways of supporting people-centric and community-
or fixed dose combination products containing dolutegravir led interventions to help meet the UN fast track targets of
for adults and 15 generic manufacturers for children. ending AIDS by 2030. ViiV Healthcare’s Positive Action
This covers 95 countries for adults and 121 for children. for Children’s Fund reached over 484,000 people in 2020.
Agreements with the large majority of manufacturers are via the Over 3.2 million people have benefited from our partnership
Medicines Patent Pool. By the end of 2020, at least 16.3 million with Comic Relief, which is focused on combatting malaria.
people living with HIV, across 113 countries in the developing We have contributed more than £14 million to 28 projects in
world, had access to a generic dolutegravir-containing product, Africa and South East Asia, improving malaria awareness and
because of these licensing agreements. This corresponds to prevention efforts, and getting treatment to patients.
at least 80% of people living with HIV on antiretrovirals in low- Since 2011, in partnership with Save the Children, Amref Health
and middle-income countries. Africa and CARE International, GSK has invested in training
Product donations frontline health workers who work with communities in low-
Since 1999, we have donated over 10 billion albendazole and middle-income countries. In 2020 alone, we trained
tablets to WHO – including 416 million in 2020. This investment approximately 15,000 health workers, reaching over three million
people1. We have partnered with Save the Children since 2013
supports efforts to eliminate lymphatic filariasis (LF) and control
and, in 2020, directly reached over 400,000 people with health
intestinal worms (soil-transmitted helminths) in school-age
services, health messaging and other programme activities.
children. So far, this has benefited patients in 92 countries
around the world and 17 countries have eliminated LF as a In 2020, GSK supported the Gates CEO Roundtable, a
public health problem. public-private collaboration to train community health workers
across six countries in sub-Saharan Africa through tech-
To support the global response to COVID-19, we donated over
enabled community health programmes. In its first year the
1.7 million GSK products – such as our antibiotics, oral health
programme reached over 537,600 people and trained over
products and multivitamins – to 32 countries.
1,150 community health workers.
In partnership with Americares, Direct Relief, IHP UK and
Our partnership with Smile Train helps children with cleft lip
MAP International, over 200,000 units of medicines were
or palate to lead full and healthy lives, benefitting over 2,250
donated for humanitarian and emergency response.
young people in 2020 with free surgeries, and over 5,000 with
GSK.com: Pricing and access strategies pre and post-surgery cleft care and other forms of support.
Healthcare access In 2020, we contributed £250 million to community initiatives.
This includes cash, product donations and the volunteering time
Our commitment is to partner to improve disease of our employees to help improve healthcare access. We also
prevention, awareness and access to healthcare services provided support to healthcare workers during the pandemic,
for 12 million people by 2025 more detail can be found on GSK.com.
In 2020, we exceeded this target, reaching 13.9 million people GSK.com: Prevention, awareness and infrastructure • COVID-19 community
through our partnerships. giving response • ViiVHealthcare.com: Positive Action programmes
Modern employer
A positive employee experience is critical to attract, retain Inclusion and diversity (I&D)
and motivate the best people. We want our employees to be
Our commitment is to accelerate our progress on I&D,
empowered to be themselves, feel good, and keep growing.
including aspirational targets for female and ethnically-
diverse representation in senior roles by end 2025, and
Engaged people
recognition as a disability confident employer and in
Our commitment is to achieve and maintain a competitive LGBT+ indices
employee engagement score by 2022
We believe that inclusion and diversity (I&D) leads to business
We survey our employees annually to get feedback about success by unleashing the enormous potential of all our people
how we are doing on our Innovation, Performance, Trust and and strengthening our ability to respond to the differing needs
Culture long-term priorities. In May 2020, a record 85% of our patients and consumers. At the heart of our I&D agenda
of people took time to feedback. Our overall engagement lies our fundamental commitment to equity in our employment
score jumped to 84%, a 6% rise since the 2019 survey, practices. To support this, and create an inclusive workplace,
and 89% feel proud to work at GSK (up 5% from 2019). all employees participate in an annual training programme,
we facilitate inclusion dialogues, and we invest in our
leadership programmes to ensure all leaders understand
1 Health worker data is estimated based on 2019 reach through the same their responsibilities.
partner programmes and level of funding. Final 2020 data is expected
to be available in April 2021.
36 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Trust continued
Our Corporate Executive Team (CET) members lead our four Race and ethnicity: UK (%)1
diversity councils (covering race and ethnicity, gender, disability, All
SVP/VP Director Manager employees
and LGBT+), working with senior leaders and members from
Black, Asian and 11.1 16.7 21.8 18.7
our employee resource groups.
minority ethnic
To measure our progress, we monitor two questions in our Asian 5.7 11.8 16.0 13.1
employee survey: in 2020 81% of participants said they can
Black 1.6 1.8 2.3 2.5
be their authentic self at GSK (up 5% on 2019) and 87% feel
Mixed 1.2 1.5 1.8 1.8
respected at work (up 6% from 2019). We also added a new
Other 2.5 1.6 1.6 1.3
question to our manager feedback tool, One80. This asks
White 88.9 83.4 78.2 81.3
employees to rate whether “through their actions, my manager
demonstrates a commitment to inclusion and diversity in our In the UK, 11.5% did not actively respond and a further 3.9% indicated
team”: leaders scored an average of 4.4 out of 5. ‘I prefer not to say’.
1 Due to rounding, the sum of the data may be marginally different from
Race and ethnicity the totals.
We are committed to equality of representation, which means
For the UK, we aspire to increase ethnically diverse VP
that we constantly strive to ensure our workforce reflects the
and above leaders to at least 18%, by the end of the 2025.
communities in which we work and hire. Specifically, we aspire
We are specifically focused on increasing the percentage
to increase the percentage of our leaders who identify as
of Black VP and above leaders; we expect – and will monitor –
ethnically diverse. In countries that meet a threshold that ensures
year-on-year growth. By our target date of 2025, we expect
confidentiality and anonymity of data, we will disclose employee
to see growth across all identified groups.
race and ethnicity by level and communicate a country-wide
aspiration to increase the representation of ethnically diverse To support our aspirations and our commitment to equality
leaders. In 2020, the US and the UK satisfied this threshold of representation we are focused on recruiting and developing
and we provide disclosures of current representation and have diverse talent. This includes: setting appropriate and ambitious
set aspirations. targets for ethnically diverse candidates for our early talent
programmes in the US and UK; launching a new global
The disclosures below reflect GSK’s representation, as of
development programme, Accelerating Difference, for ethnically
31 December 2020, for employees who actively and voluntarily
diverse employees; and, for our most senior roles, we are also
disclosed their race or ethnicity.
introducing a policy that requires a diverse shortlist of qualified
Race and ethnicity: US (%)1 candidates, including ethnically diverse representation (as
All defined appropriately by country).
SVP/VP Director Manager employees
Ethnically diverse 23.2 25.3 29.3 30.0 Gender
American Indian or * 0.4 0.3 0.4 The percentage of women in management continues to rise
Alaska Native at GSK. We are proud to report that in 2020 we achieved
Asian 10.8 13.8 15.9 12.9 an important landmark, with the global percentage of female
managers, presently 48% (47% in 2019), being equal to or
Black or African 5.8 5.5 6.3 9.9
American greater than the percentage of non-managers, currently 47%,
Hispanic or Latinx 5.0 4.5 5.1 5.1 and 38% of senior management roles at VP and above –
up from 36% in 2019.
Native Hawaiian or * 0.3 0.1 0.2
Other Pacific The latest Hampton-Alexander Review found that GSK ranked
Islander
in the top quartile of FTSE 100 companies based on proportion
Two or more races 1.2 0.9 1.6 1.5 of women on the Board, with 42% female representation.
White 76.8 74.7 70.8 70.0 Within the FTSE 350 sector analysis, GSK ranked 2nd
in the Pharmaceuticals sector (up from 3rd in 2019).
* Insufficient data to report (fewer than three employees).
In the US, 6.3% of employees did not actively respond to identify a race Women in management (%)
or ethnicity category, and a further 1.2% indicated ‘I prefer not to say’.
2020 2019 2018 2017
1 Due to rounding, the sum of the data may be marginally different from
the totals. SVP/VP 38 36 33 31
We aspire to increase the representation of ethnically diverse Director 46 44 43 43
VP and above leaders to at least 30% in the US by the end Manager 50 49 48 47
of 2025. We are specifically focused on increasing the All management 48 47 45 44
percentage of Black or African American and Hispanic or Employees by gender (number)
Latinx VP and above leaders; we expect – and will monitor
Male Female Total
– year-on-year growth. By our target date of 2025 we expect
Board 7 5 12
to see growth across all identified groups.
Management* 10,117 9,303 19,420
All employees 50,005 44,061 94,066
* Senior managers as defined in the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report
and Directors’ Report) Regulations 2013.
GSK Annual Report 2020 37Trust continued
We have increased our global gender aspiration for VP and Mental health training is available for all employees and 10,897
above roles to 45%, or higher, by the end of 2025. Importantly, managers completed it in 2020. We encourage everyone to be
we are pursuing steps within the countries in which we operate open, to ask for help and access support when they need it.
to enable and encourage our employees to voluntarily self-
In 2020, more than 22,000 employees completed energy and
disclose their gender identity.
resilience programmes via our online training and development
We published our fourth annual UK gender pay gap report in platform, 12,060 participated in COVID-19-focused resilience
2020. Our gender pay gap for all permanent UK-based GSK webinars and 18,688 in virtual mindfulness sessions. We also
employees is 1.41% (mean), outperforming the national average introduced a personalised, digital health platform in 25 countries
of 14.6%. We have a long-standing commitment to fair and which includes a subscription to a mental health app for
equal pay. We conduct country-based reviews and ensure all individual self-support. We measure organisational stress
markets have clear guidance, tools and support to ensure pay via the platform to focus mental health support where required.
equity. If unexplainable differences are detected, we address
Employee safety
them through our compensation processes.
Overall, our reportable injury and illness rate fell from 0.22 per
Disability 100,000 hours worked in 2019, to 0.17 in 2020. The reduced
We are signatories to the UK Department for International numbers of employees driving and based at GSK sites, due
Development’s Charter for Change, joining other organisations to the pandemic, will have contributed to this decrease.
with a common aim to ensure rights, freedoms, dignity and
Despite our extensive safety programmes, tragically we
inclusion for people with disabilities. In 2020 GSK also signed
experienced two employee fatalities: one at a manufacturing
up to the Valuable 500 pledge. This involves continuing to invest
site in Canada and another in a road traffic accident in India.
in workplace accessibility, building the inclusivity skills of our
There was an additional work-related fatality in Belgium,
people, improving our products’ packaging accessibility, and
involving a construction worker not under GSK’s direct
developing a measurable three-year strategic Disability
supervision. We conducted extensive investigations into
Confidence plan.
the causes of each fatality, to ensure we could take actions
LGBT+ to reduce the risk of similar tragic incidents occurring.
Our goal is to be recognised in global LGBT+ indices. For two We have developed a safety improvement plan to further
consecutive years (2019/2020), LGBT+ rights group Stonewall strengthen our existing safety practices.
has recognised GSK in its Top Global Employers list. We
Approximately 20,000 employees drive on company business.
also ranked in the top 10 in the UK Stonewall Index, with our
To help those employees drive safely we run a driver safety
employee resource group for LGBT+ employees and allies
programme which combines online learning with practical
named as the best in the UK. In the US, GSK was named Best
road safety activities. We have over 15,000 drivers from more
Place to Work for LGBTQ equality for the fourth year running
than 60 countries enrolled in this programme.
in Human Rights Campaign’s Corporate Equality Index. We are
a founding member of the Proud Science Alliance, a collective People development
of LGBTQ+ networks that work together to raise the bar on We want our people to keep developing throughout their
LGBTQ+ inclusion across the health and life sciences sector. career. Every employee has the opportunity to discuss and
agree a development plan with their manager. In 2020, 93,718
Health, wellbeing and development employees accessed training resources through our internal
development portal. During the year, we redesigned and rolled
Our commitment is to be a leading company in how
out a new virtual First Line Leader training programme.
we support employee health, wellbeing and personal
development We provide targeted development for leaders at all stages
of their careers. In 2020, we established four leadership
Health and wellbeing
accountabilities; motivate, focus, care and develop, in
GSK’s Executive Team has overseen our COVID-19 response,
support of our purpose and performance driven culture.
including the health, wellbeing and engagement of our employees
as a primary focus. In support of this, we have developed a strong
We also updated our One80 manager feedback tool to help
health and safety framework aligned to site needs, specific role
managers see what they do well and where they need to focus
types or certain activities, for which we have provided training.
their development. Every manager is expected to complete the
During 2020, we monitored confirmed COVID-19 cases and process, which involves a self-assessment and survey for their
recoveries in our workforce on a daily basis. We developed team to answer the same questions. In 2020, 9,892 managers
minimum standards for returning to the workplace, and provided participated in One80 and 60,386 employees provided
clear expectations on the wearing of personal protective feedback to their managers. On a rating scale of 1-5, on
equipment, employee testing and temperature-screening to average our managers were scored 4.3 by their team.
make the workplace as safe as possible, enabling more
employees to return to sites. We are committed to recruiting and developing people
at the start of their careers and currently have 677 people
We supported employees working from home with ergonomic
on our graduate and MBA programmes globally and 448
advice and equipment, provided online training on remote
on apprenticeships in 11 countries.
working and continued to ensure sufficient employee assistance
support for all employees as well as their dependants. G SK.com: Employee engagement • Learning and development
38 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Trust continued
Responsible business
Operating as a responsible business means being transparent Living our values and expectations
with our science and our data, delivering a reliable supply of Our 2020 employee survey showed that we are making good
high-quality products, protecting a values-driven culture where progress in living up to our values and expectations with 89%
issues are responded to swiftly and transparently and reducing of employees agreeing that their work environment encouraged
our environmental impact. ethical behaviour in the face of pressures to meet business
objectives (up from 86% in 2019).
Reliable supply
We also conducted a joint review with our commercial practices
We commit to quality, safety and reliable supply of our and anti-bribery and corruption audit team on sales force
products for patients and consumers incentives. The review findings highlighted a strong patient
focus, and pride in working for GSK. The review also identified
Ensuring a high-quality and reliable supply of our products
opportunities to better embed our values and expectations
for patients and consumers is a priority for us. See pages 29,
in daily work to reach all employees.
30 and 32 for more on how we manage continuity of supply.
This has been especially important during the pandemic. Every GSK employee and complementary worker is required
to complete the Living Our Values and Expectations mandatory
Our robust quality management systems support continuous
training annually. In 2020, 99.9% of our employees and 97%
improvement, helping us to maintain high standards for product
of our complementary workers completed this training, which
quality and safety and complying with relevant regulations,
focused on ‘Protecting GSK’. Content included topics such
including those on Good Manufacturing Practice, Good
as anti-bribery and corruption (ABAC), our Code of Conduct,
Laboratory Practice, Good Pharmacovigilance Practice and
information security, privacy, our independent third-party Speak
Good Clinical Practice. There were 142 external regulatory
Up integrity lines (for reporting of concerns), human safety
inspections (many carried out ‘virtually’ due to the pandemic)
information and adverse event reporting. This training helps
at our manufacturing sites and local operating companies in
to identify and manage risks that appear in day-to-day roles.
2020. GSK addresses all inspection findings, however minor,
and has robust processes to ensure corrective and preventive Our mandatory ABAC training continued and 100% of
action plans are implemented in a timely manner. employees and 99.5% of contract workers completed
this training in 2020, which focuses on principles to assist
In 2020, we carried out 1,839 quality audits of suppliers and
employees to identify and mitigate ABAC risk and to
223 audits of clinical studies run by, or on behalf of GSK.
recognise, report and mitigate conflicts of interest.
Where we identify areas that require improvement, we engage
with the relevant third parties to develop improvement plans Reporting and investigating concerns
and track their progress. If significant issues are identified and Anyone inside or outside GSK can raise concerns or speak
remain unresolved, we may choose to suspend or terminate to an independent third party through our integrity lines,
work with a third party. confidentially or anonymously, without fear of retaliation.
We take every concern very seriously and review every
Pharmacovigilance
report to understand whether a formal investigation is needed.
Detecting, assessing, understanding and preventing adverse
If our investigations show that an employee has breached
effects or any other drug-related problem is important in
our policies, we take appropriate disciplinary action.
evaluating the safety of pharmaceutical products. We continue
to work with partners to maintain high standards with respect In 2020, 2,146 employees were accused of misconduct and
to safety and medical governance. We apply the same rigour we initiated 1,529 formal investigations, with most policy
and safety standards to our potential COVID-19 related violations relating to behaviour in the workplace. As a result,
solutions. 788 employees were disciplined, of whom 171 were dismissed
or voluntarily left and 617 received a documented warning.
To prevent the manufacture and distribution of counterfeit
In other instances, action short of a documented warning
GSK products, we continue to work with international law
was taken. At the end of 2020, we had 448 cases awaiting
enforcement agencies. In 2020, we played a key role in anti-
investigation or a disciplinary decision.
counterfeiting actions in China which resulted in the closure
of eight locations that manufactured millions of counterfeit Employees disciplined in 2020: breakdown of types
goods, including some of our toothpaste brands. of policy violation (%)1
G SK.com: Patient safety and reliable supply Behaviour in the workplace 35%
Good manufacturing and distribution practices 24%
Ethics and values
Mandatory training completion 8%
Our commitment is to operate an ethical, values-driven Marketing and promotional activities 7%
culture, in which any issues are responded to swiftly
Expenses 6%
and transparently
Other2 20%
We have high expectations for our employees to live up to our
1 An employee can be subject to multiple allegations and disciplinary actions.
values and to act when they have concerns, and we extend this
2 Policy violation types that do not fit into the categories specified.
expectation to our third parties.
GSK Annual Report 2020 39Trust continued
Human rights Data and engagement
We are committed to respecting human rights throughout our
Our commitment is to use data responsibly and transparently
global operations and continue to deepen our understanding
and improve patient and scientific engagement
of the human rights impacts associated with our activities.
Responsible data use
In 2020, we further improved our visibility of labour rights risks
We are committed to using data responsibly and transparently.
in the supply chain. With the support of external experts, we
This includes managing data carefully, sharing the results of
identified the raw materials and commodities that are sometimes
our clinical studies, integrating patient insights into our product
linked to modern slavery and are now prioritising them for due
development, and providing healthcare professionals with
diligence activities. A similar risk assessment for our indirect
relevant and accurate information when they need it.
suppliers is in progress.
In 2020, we evolved our privacy approach to better align with
Through our membership of the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain
external expectations and the ‘privacy by design’ framework.
Initiative’s Human Rights and Labour Sub-Committee, we
We ensure data-owners consider privacy right at the start of
supported the delivery of human rights and modern slavery
activities, and established a specialised privacy review panel to
training sessions for suppliers in India and China. We also
assess appropriateness of secondary use personal information
engaged with stakeholders in Brazil to better understand the
in R&D, to ensure we protect individuals’ rights and freedoms.
forced labour risks and certification schemes associated with
carnauba wax – used for tablet coatings – and presented our Our annual Code of Conduct training, mandatory for all
findings to suppliers. our employees globally, includes a module on privacy. This
reinforces an understanding that everyone at GSK is personally
Progress in each of our other priority human rights areas
responsible for the correct handling of personal information.
(access to healthcare, research practices, patient safety,
We also provide training for all new hires, and everyone filling
environment, health and safety, and privacy) can be found
a key privacy role undergoes certification from the International
in the relevant sections of this report and on our website.
Association of Privacy Professionals, which requires ongoing
G SK.com: Human rights • Modern Slavery Act statement privacy education to maintain.
Working with third parties We are also a critical partner in the TransCelerate consortium’s
We want to ensure that the third parties we work with share effort to create a harmonised approach for the pharmaceutical
our values and ethical and business standards. Our Third industry to support the exchange of data internationally.
Party Oversight (TPO) programme has been embedded
Clinical trial transparency
globally and we continue to refine it. During 2020, over 14,000
As part of our long-standing commitment to data transparency
risk assessments were completed through the TPO programme,
for our clinical studies, we have published 2,708 clinical study
and more than 400 third parties identified as high risk have
reports and 6,168 summaries of results – both positive and
undergone detailed independent assessments by EcoVadis.
negative – from our studies on our clinical study register.
To help ensure continuity with our suppliers in 2020, We also share anonymised patient-level data from our studies
throughout the COVID-19 pandemic we conducted supplier with external researchers.
financial checks, offering support if suppliers’ financial health
We have listed 2,480 studies for data sharing via www.vivli.org
deteriorated, for example by relaxing our payment terms.
and www.clinicalstudydatarequest.com.
We continued to work with our third-party suppliers to
GSK.com and online: GSK Privacy Notice • GSK Clinical Study Register
reduce EHS risks, and conducted 36 audits on EHS and
Patient and scientific engagement
ethics. In countries where physical visits were not possible,
these were virtual. In 2020, we expanded our priority In 2020, we conducted a number of patient panels across
suppliers from 30 to 78. Priority suppliers are those with a wide variety of different disease areas. We have also
whom we have significant spend, that support significant established a process to seek patient feedback on the design
revenue and/or are medically or R&D critical to the business. of our clinical trials.
We provide proactive support to help our suppliers build We have continued to increase our focus on improving the
safety improvement plans and build their overall capability. diverse representation in clinical trials so they represent the
We use a range of tools to assess suppliers’ management real world population in terms of age, race, ethnicity and gender.
of EHS risks including use of EcoVadis desktop assessments, Our approach characterises the populations with the burden of
and on site or virtual audits. We set clear EHS requirements disease and barriers to access and engages with communities
for all suppliers, discontinue work with those suppliers who and advocacy groups. We also provide training and support
consistently fail to meet these requirements and continually to our staff and increasingly to our research collaborators on
review EHS performance at suppliers as part of our internal enrolling diverse populations in clinical trials.
EHS governance and oversight processes. To read about our approach to engaging with HCPs, see our
code on HCP engagement.
GSK.com: Ethics and values
GSK.com: Clinical trial diversity, Patient Engagement, Engaging with HCPs
40 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Trust continued
Environment In 2019, (our latest available data for all categories)2, absolute
Scope 3 emissions decreased by 10% vs 2018, and by 19%
Our commitment is to have a net zero impact on climate
per £ billion revenue. This represents a reduction of 32% per
and a net positive impact on nature by 2030
£ billion revenue since our 2016 baseline year. This was mainly
We set these two ambitious new climate and nature goals because of a reduction in the carbon intensity of products
in November 2020, and will start reporting against them in purchased, updated data on the emissions from milk for
our 2021 Annual Report. Horlicks and reduced emissions from metered dose inhalers.
Our new climate goal means that we aim to have net zero scope Our Ellipta dry powder inhalers (DPI) have a lifecycle carbon
1, 2 and 3 carbon emissions by 2030. As part of our climate footprint around 24 times lower than a propellant-based
goal, we have been accredited for 1.5°C-aligned emissions inhaler3. In 2020, we certified the carbon footprint of Trelegy
reduction targets (covering Scopes 1, 2 and 31) by the Science Ellipta working with the Carbon Trust, and recertified the carbon
Based Targets initiative. We have also joined RE100, reinforcing footprints of our other Ellipta products. We support efforts
our commitment to renewable electricity and EV100, reducing to promote low carbon inhalers wherever possible.
the impact of our sales fleet.
We recognise our suppliers’ efforts to reduce their
Our nature goal is underpinned by ambitious targets and focuses environmental impacts through our annual Supplier
on water reduction and water stewardship compliance, waste Environmental Sustainability Awards. See the winners
reduction and circularity (including eliminating plastics), API on GSK.com.
emissions reduction, adoption of biodiversity action plans and We also expanded our climate resilience analyses, see
measurement of carbon and/or land use improved from nature- page 46 for the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial
based solution programmes. As part of these, we will invest in Disclosures framework guidelines. In 2020, we introduced new
projects to protect and restore land-use. We will align with the targets related to carbon, which are published on GSK.com.
Science Based Targets for Nature approach to measure our With our new net zero targets, we have joined the Race to Zero:
impact on nature and will seek to accredit the target when this a global UN campaign, which aims to build momentum around
methodology is finalised. the shift to a decarbonised economy ahead of the next climate
We seek to deliver these goals by taking action on priority summit, COP 26.
impact areas and working with key external partners including G SK.com: Our new environmental approach, Supplier awards
our suppliers and customers. See GSK.com for the full set of
Carbon emissions4 plus intensity ratios (as per regulations)5
targets. This is the last year we will report against our previous
targets, which were set in 2018.
‘000 tonnes CO2e 2020 2019 2018
Scope 1 emissions 773 795 825
GSK.com: Our new environmental approach
Scope 2 emissions 228 522 535
Carbon Scope 3 emissions Available in 14,260 16,335
Our overall value chain carbon footprint is made up of Scope 1 2021 report
and 2 emissions from our own operations (8%), and Scope 3 UK Scope 1 & 2 emissions 142 195 203
emissions from our supplier base (45%), logistics (6%), and the Energy used 2020 2019 2018
use of our products (40%), mostly metered dose inhalers. Scope 1 and 2 emissions/ 29.4 39.0 44.2
sales revenue (tonnes
We will report progress against our new carbon targets in
CO e/£m)
2021, but for a final year we are reporting progress against the 2
Scope 1 and 2 emissions/ 10.6 13.3 14.3
targets we set in 2018. These are 2030 targets, set against a
FTE (tonnes CO e/FTE)4
2016 baseline, to: reduce operational carbon emissions (Scope 2
Scope 3 emissions/£bn Available in 0.6 0.53
1 and 2) by 20%; reduce value chain carbon emissions (Scope
revenue (million tonnes 2021 report
3) by 25% per £ billion revenue; and source 60% of electricity
CO e/£bn revenue)
2
from renewable sources.
Total energy used (GWh) 3,884 4,079 4,187
In 2020, we reduced our Scope 1 and 2 emissions
UK energy used (GWh) 940 975 1,081
by approximately 24% compared to 2019 (34% since 2016),
largely because we transformed our use of renewable electricity 1 Our Scope 1 and 2 SBTI-accredited target aims for a 34% by 2025 from
a 2017 baseline, and our Scope 3 target commits us to reducing absolute
through the purchase of green certificates. This means 52% of Scope 3 emissions 16% by 2030 from a 2017 baseline.
the electricity we used was sourced renewably, exceeding our 2 2020 figures are expected to be available later in 2021.
interim target of achieving 30% by 2020. We also saw a 3 For one year's treatment, use of propellant-based inhalers results in a
reduction in Scope 1 emissions as national lockdowns reduced carbon footprint of 228kg COe compared with 9.6kg COe from using
2 2
Ellipta dry powder inhalers.
the need for driving from our salesforce.
4 Carbon emissions are calculated according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol:
We continued installing and improving our use of existing A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (revised edition). GSK uses
market-based Scope 2 emissions for reporting purposes and reports Scope
renewable energy on site and our energy efficiency programme
3 emissions across all 15 categories. See our ESG performance summary.
continues to identify further opportunities to reduce energy
5 GSK asks DNV to provide limited assurance to ISAE 3000 for energy, Scope
consumption. For example, we installed a new heat exchanger 1, 2 and selected Scope 3 carbon emissions, water, waste and wastewater
at our Mayenne site in France, which transfers heat previously data. Methodologies for reporting and measurements are provided in our
ESG Performance Summary, on the KPI definitions pages.
lost in chilling water and uses it to provide 70% of hot water
demand for the site.
GSK Annual Report 2020 41Trust continued
Water In 2020, we joined the Action on Sustainable Derivatives,
We aim to reduce our total water use at each high-risk site which enabled us to trace 74% of palm oil by volume back
by 30% by 2030 (set against a 2016 baseline). We now have to mill level.
seven high-risk water sites following network changes, which
Around 100 of the materials we use to manufacture our products
saw our last high-risk water vaccine sites and the Consumer
are derived from bio-based sources. Of these, very few are
Healthcare Horlicks sites leave the network. As a result, large
animal-derived. Our ambition is to move to non-animal derived
volumes of water used in water stress areas have been removed
and/or sustainable alternatives for these materials, but this will
from our operations. The seven remaining high-risk water sites
take time to ensure the efficacy and safety of our products are
are on track to achieve our reduction target.
not compromised.
Water challenges are not simply about volumetric reduction.
See GSK.com for our new responsible sourcing and
Good water stewardship means reducing the amount of water
biodiversity targets.
we use, improving water quality through minimising discharges
and working with community stakeholders to address local GSK.com: Our new environmental approach
water challenges.
Plastic
In 2020, 85% of our sites were compliant with our water We have set a target for our consumer healthcare business
stewardship standard, meeting our 2020 target of 80% , to eliminate all problematic and unnecessary plastics, reduce
and continue to work towards reaching 100% by 2025. our plastic footprint by 8,000 tonnes and ensure all of our
packaging is recyclable where quality and safety permits,
In 2020, we introduced new targets related to water, which
by 2025.
are published on GSK.com and having joined the UN CEO
Water Mandate, in 2020 we also joined the UN Water Our consumer healthcare business developed a Design
Resilience Coalition. for Sustainability tool, which will enable us to design new
products in a sustainable way, minimising plastic use.
GSK.com: Our new environmental approach
For example, through this tool, we have launched our first
Waste
sustainable plastic-free toothbrush in Germany.
By the end of 2020, all of our sites had stopped sending
We have also continued efforts to reduce our single use
hazardous and non-hazardous waste to landfill.1 Company-wide
plastic footprint. We have removed 17 million single use
validation of this 10-year ambition will be completed during
plastic items – equivalent to 185 tonnes of plastic – since
the first half of 2021. This achievement excludes waste, such
our reduction programme began at the end of 2019.
as asbestos, that must be sent to landfill.
See GSK.com for our new target relating to pharmaceuticals
We also have a commitment to ensure all waste is repurposed
in the environment.
for beneficial use by 2030. At our site in Parma, Italy, for
example, we have implemented initiatives to increase the GSK.com: Our new environmental approach
amount of solid waste sent to incineration with energy recovery,
Pharmaceuticals in the environment
and to concentrate a hazardous waste stream preventing the
We are committed to ensuring that active pharmaceutical
incineration of around 2,900 tonnes of contaminated water.
ingredients (APIs) do not adversely affect people or the
These programmes have increased the amount of waste
environment. We are a key partner in a new project with
repurposed for beneficial use at the site to 59% in 2020
the Innovative Medicines Initiative (IMI), focused on the
(up from 18% in 2019) and reduced overall waste by 34%.
Prioritisation and Risk Evaluation of Medicines in the
See GSK.com for our new waste reduction and circularity EnviRonment (PREMIER). This multi-stakeholder project
targets. will make environmental data on APIs more accessible
to stakeholders.
GSK.com: Our new environmental approach
We are committed to ensuring that any API emissions
Responsible sourcing
from manufacturing, including those that might contribute
In 2020, we carried out a risk assessment, which helped us
to anti-microbial resistance (AMR), are kept below levels
to identify the 15 highest-risk materials in our supply chain.
that negatively impact human health or the environment.
As a result of this assessment, we are developing responsible
We carry out environmental testing on all our pharmaceuticals
sourcing plans for each of these high-risk materials.
and use this data in risk assessments to evaluate potential for
We are committed to moving towards deforestation-free sourcing harm. We use this data to set safe discharge targets for our
for all key commodities purchased directly by GSK, or indirectly manufacturing supply chain. For more on reducing AMR risk,
on our behalf, by 2030. In early 2021 we expanded the scope of see page 35.
our deforestation-free sourcing policy to cover soy, cattle-derived
See GSK.com for our new target relating to pharmaceuticals
products and rubber, as well as palm oil and paper packaging.
in the environment.
We made our first submission to CDP Forests, covering
the sourcing of palm oil and paper packaging. For our paper GSK.com: Our new environmental approach
packaging, the majority (80%) of our carton supply chains
are Forest Stewardship Council or Programme for the
Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC) certified. 1 See KPI definitions in our ESG Performance Summary for exceptions.
42 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Risk management
GSK has a well-embedded risk management framework, which is reviewed
continually. Board committees provide oversight of the framework, assisted
by the Risk Oversight and Compliance Council.
Our risk management framework enables GSK’s Board to During the year, we further developed our risk management
identify, evaluate and manage principal risks in line with our framework, moving from annual to quarterly upwards reporting
long-term priorities. It sets out an effective hierarchy of risk of our principal risks, emerging risks and external insights.
management and compliance boards within each of our This has enabled the Risk Oversight and Compliance Council
businesses which promotes the ‘tone from the top’, establishes to oversee risk in a more dynamic way. We also made reporting
our risk culture and oversees the effective cascade and more data driven, with key risk indicators enabling more agile
escalation of information about internal controls. Each principal risk management strategies. In addition, risks and mitigations
risk is overseen by a CET risk owner to ensure proportionate relating to COVID-19 were incorporated within our most
controls are in place, with clear plans assigned to address significant risks, to further complement the pandemic risks
any gaps. Businesses and risk owners provide reporting identified and managed by the CET.
of risk and mitigation to the Risk Oversight and Compliance
In 2020 three new risks were escalated to standalone
Council and Board committees.
principal risks – Environmental sustainability, Non-promotional
GSK considers both current and emerging risks as part of engagement and Transformation. Third-party oversight ceased
its risk management framework, with emerging risks defined to be a principal risk as its implementation had matured and the
as those on the three-year horizon. We may not yet have residual risk is more effectively managed within the business or
adequate information about the impact or likelihood of such the relevant principal risk. The CET agreed to maintain the
emerging risks, thus may undertake further investigation current principal risks for 2021.
before including them in our list of principal risks. Emerging
We list the current principal risks on the following pages –
risk assessments are performed as part of the remit of our
they are not in order of significance. For full risk definitions
risk management and compliance boards at all levels of
and mitigating activities please see pages 261 to 275.
the organisation.
Risks associated with the proposed separation
Our CET conducts a formal annual risk review to consider
of GSK’s Consumer Healthcare business
current and emerging risks and whether they are significant
Separation of our Consumer Healthcare business is dependent
and should be included in our principal risks list. This review
on a number of factors that are outside GSK’s control, including
is supported by extensive analysis of external trends and
any required shareholder and regulatory approvals, favourable
insights, senior level interviews and recommendations from
conditions in public equity markets and public or private
risk management and compliance boards.
debt markets and changes in applicable law and regulation.
The risk management framework complements our values, Therefore, there can be no certainty that separation will
expectations and Speak Up processes in ensuring that the be completed as proposed (or at all).
risks associated with our business activities are actively and
In addition, if separation is completed, there can be no
effectively identified and mitigated. It also provides reasonable
assurance that either GSK or Consumer Healthcare will
assurance against material misstatement or loss. We conduct
realise the expected benefits of separation or that separation
an annual confirmation exercise across our businesses to
will not adversely affect GSK or Consumer Healthcare or the
validate that key risks are well managed or actions are in
value or liquidity of their respective shares.
place to address gaps, which reinforces the accountability
of our leaders. Risks associated with COVID-19
The potential impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on GSK's
In 2020, Board oversight was extended beyond the Audit & Risk
trading performance and all our principal risks has been
Committee to include more involvement from the Corporate
assessed with mitigation plans put in place. Up to the date
Responsibility Committee and Science Committee. These
of this report, the pandemic has, as anticipated, impacted
committees considered GSK’s risks and the strategies used
the Group performance during the year primarily in demand
to address them. In doing so they drew on annual business
for Vaccines as a result of ongoing containment measures
unit risk and assurance update reports, strategy papers for
impacting customers' ability and willingness to access
our most significant risks, and the CET’s annual risk review.
vaccination services across all regions. We anticipate
that governments' prioritisation of COVID-19 vaccination
programmes will continue to impact our Vaccines business.
We continue to monitor the situation closely, as this continues to
Viability statement, see page 48 be a dynamic and uncertain situation, with the ultimate severity,
duration and impact unknown at this point including potential
ARC Report, see page 97
impacts on trading results, clinical trials, supply continuity and
Principal risks and uncertainties, see page 261 our employees. The situation could change at any time and there
Internal Control Framework, see page 99 can be no assurance that the COVID-19 pandemic will not have
a material adverse impact on the future results of the Group.
GSK Annual Report 2020 43Risk management continued
Risk Assessment and mitigation activities
Patient safety The macro risk level is unchanged and remains challenging as politicisation of drug and vaccine
safety and efficacy in the context of COVID-19 could provoke distrust and alter public reporting.
Restrictive privacy regulations, that impact how we manage safety data, create further
complications.
GSK’s exposure is also unchanged. While operational risk has stabilised through embedding
of pharmacovigilance organisational efficiencies, this is offset by challenges accompanying
fast-paced development of medicines and vaccines for COVID-19. To mitigate these and other
risks, we apply our well-established safety governance and risk management framework to
ensure we are safeguarding patients throughout the lifecycle of all GSK products.
Product quality The macro risk remains the same despite concerns of potential drug shortages associated
with COVID-19, the ongoing evaluation of products for the presence of nitrosamines and
the increased focus on data integrity requirements.
GSK's exposure remains unchanged with quality oversight processes in place to monitor
and maintain a strong compliance profile throughout the pandemic. Governance and control
strategies have been developed and deployed for the timely completion of our nitrosamine
assessments. We have continued to invest in technology and digital platforms to further
strengthen our controls around good data management practices.
Financial controls The macro risk level has increased, with the external environment remaining challenging due
to political uncertainty and increasing societal expectations of the role of the auditor. There are
and reporting
increased fraud attempts and challenging financial markets, informed mainly by the COVID-19
pandemic and evolving political responses.
GSK’s risk exposure has remained stable due to the resilience and focus of personnel.
We continue to implement transformational programmes, leverage technology, centralise
processes, strengthen controls and maintain effective tax and treasury strategies.
Anti-bribery and The macro risk level for bribery and corruption increased as we continued to see legal
corruption (ABAC) frameworks similar to those in the UK and US develop elsewhere; more rigorous standards
aided by improved technology; increased enforcement with focus on third-party intermediaries;
and the impact of COVID-19 on businesses.
GSK’s ABAC risk exposure has maintained as we continue to improve our ABAC programme
to ensure appropriate controls, training, capability building, awareness raising, strong monitoring
and use of data analytics. We continue to understand and assess our risk exposure to money
laundering and wider corruption to mitigate any existing risk.
Commercial COVID-19 has increased the macro-level risk on the industry go-to-market model, boosting
practices the importance of different channel activities (e.g. internet based) for consumers, promoting,
and pricing connecting and commercialising. There is also an increased risk of downward price pressure
due to international reference pricing, aggressive healthcare budget controls and tighter
reimbursement.
GSK’s risk exposure level remains stable due to our mature and robust control environment. We
continue to evolve our commercial practices. We have invested in new technologies that support
virtual customer engagement. We maintain proportionate controls, training and monitoring for
employees that engage with healthcare organisations and professionals. In Consumer Healthcare,
improvements in our digital sales and marketing control framework are mitigating emerging risks.
Non-promotional The macro environment for non-promotional activities and scientific engagement with HCPs
and patients is stable. This is despite being impacted by the complexity and dynamic nature
engagement
of disease areas and treatments, the increasing diversity of engagement platforms, and
a significant increase in virtual engagements since the pandemic.
GSK’s exposure has not increased. We further modernised and adapted our practices and
applied our internal principles and policies, designed to mitigate risk, to this rapidly evolving
environment. We evolved employee training so that our people understand the risk associated
with non-promotional activities and conduct them in compliance with GSK’s values and policies,
local laws and regulations.
44 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Risk management continued
Risk Assessment and mitigation activities
Privacy The macro risk continues to increase, with priority GSK markets such as the US, China and
India instituting new – or enforcing existing – privacy laws, and court rulings invalidating privacy
mechanisms that international companies had relied on, including the EU-US Privacy Shield.
COVID-19 has further highlighted the fragmented nature of the regulatory environment.
GSK’s exposure remains unchanged, due to our continued efforts to embed our privacy
framework in our markets, the evolution of risk mitigation in the business, and the advancing
of our privacy strategy from a centrally-driven, mitigation approach to one where the business
proactively embeds privacy by design standards.
Research The macro risk level has increased due to COVID-19. The pandemic has created continuity
practices challenges for R&D, particularly human subject research, where disruption to global clinical trial
programmes has introduced additional risks.
GSK’s exposure remains unchanged. We are offsetting external impacts of the pandemic by risk
mitigation actions to embed and monitor additional business continuity measures and controls.
Ongoing and planned work to further enhance and monitor our culture of quality is continuing.
Environment, The macro risk level has increased. Although regulators and stakeholders’ expectations are
health and safety broadly the same, new regulations to control the spread of COVID-19 in the workplace have
(EHS) added significant complexity to how we comply with existing EHS regulations.
GSK’s risk exposure has increased, due both to our adjustment of work practices to enable
COVID-19 control measures and because of our transition to a period of significant
organisational change. Both factors require us to refocus on applying EHS fundamentals.
Environmental The macro risk level increased as investors, regulators and other stakeholders increasingly
sustainability expect companies to understand and reduce the environmental impacts across their value chain
and mitigate the impacts climate change could have on their operations and supply chains.
GSK’s risk exposure is unchanged. We set ambitious new environmental sustainability targets
in 2020 and have implemented detailed water resilience assessments, increased our Task Force
on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) analysis and continued to monitor trends in
physical, reputational and regulatory risks from climate change impacts.
Information The macro risk level continues to rise, as large multinationals increase their digital footprints
security and threats from hackers become ever more sophisticated. During the year COVID-19 also
added to a measurable increase in threats targeting the healthcare industry.
GSK’s risk exposure has increased. GSK’s cybersecurity programme continues a rapid
improvement of controls to increase cyber threat intelligence capabilities and protect critical
information and systems including operational technology and networks. While GSK
continues to strengthen cybersecurity and information protection capabilities, the targeting
of pharmaceutical and vaccine intellectual property leveraging cybersecurity, as well as third
party service availability as a means of disruption, has intensified.
Supply continuity The macro risk level remains high due to the ongoing impact of the COVID-19 pandemic
on product supply. The potential for increasing protectionism between countries and Brexit
uncertainties also continues.
GSK’s risk exposure has increased. There is an elevated risk of supply issues of bioscience
materials such as glass vials and filters. This is an industry-wide concern arising from the rapid
ramp up of COVID-19 vaccines and therapeutics driving increased demand for components.
Transformation The macro risk level is increasing due to COVID-19 having introduced uncertainty into the
external global environment and necessitating temporary measures in certain countries to
protect employment.
GSK’s risk exposure level remains unchanged. Our transformation and separation projects
have progressed as planned throughout 2020, with workforce engagement being a priority.
GSK Annual Report 2020 45Risk management continued
Climate-related financial disclosure
Here we provide an update to GSK’s voluntary disclosure Risks from extreme weather events – flooding, wildfires,
in accordance with the recommendations of the Taskforce storms that may impact our supply chains and manufacturing
for Climate-related Financial Disclosure (TCFD), an initiative operations on a short-term basis (one to three years) are
of the Financial Stability Board, which promotes the disclosure reviewed annually and addressed in our Business Continuity
of climate change risk. Plans. The scenario analyses continue to inform our focus
to consider and address potential longer-term impacts
In November 2020 we committed to ambitious new
(over seven years) from climate change.
environmental sustainability goals for both climate and nature.
We aim to have a net zero climate impact and a net positive The two scenarios considered were:
impact on nature by 2030. These goals build on our long-term
– business-as-usual: we assumed little to no mitigation
ambition, since 2010, to reduce our impact on the environment
leading to 3-5°C of warming by 2100;
(see page 41).
– low-carbon: we assumed that the global temperature
Governance
increase by 2100 is limited to well below 2°C by rapid
The Board has overall accountability for the management changes in legislation and technology.
of GSK’s principal risks, which includes Environmental
The scenarios were based on internationally recognised data
sustainability, with support from the CET. The Board’s
sets1 and consider the potential physical risks of a changing
Corporate Responsibility Committee (CRC) oversees GSK’s
climate such as flooding and water stress, as well as the risks
Environmental sustainability principal risk, and progress against
associated with a transition to a low-carbon economy such as
our environmental targets. The CRC is supported in its work
international climate policy and the impacts of carbon pricing.
by members of the CET including the CEO, President of
The analysis evaluated the implications for GSK’s manufacturing
Global Affairs and President Pharmaceuticals Supply Chain
facilities, suppliers, and raw materials providers as well as
who attend the Committee’s meetings.
the impacts of patient and consumer use for each product.
During the year, the CRC reviewed and approved The assessment did not consider any actions that GSK might
recommendations for the company’s new sustainability goals. take to mitigate or adapt to the findings.
The CRC reviewed the contribution of both the biopharma
The analysis of both physical and transition risks showed that
and consumer part of the business to these goals. The CRC
in both scenarios there is likely to be some financial risks which
discussed the impact of climate change and nature loss on
would need to be managed, but none that would materially impact
human health, recognising that these new goals are consistent
our business model. The key impacts for both scenarios were:
with the company purpose and strategy.
– Flood-related disruptions at our own manufacturing sites
Regis Simard, President, Pharmaceuticals Supply Chain
and in our supply chain;
and member of the CET has management responsibility for
environmental sustainability. He is responsible for governance – Water stress leading to increased expenditure and disruption
and risk oversight and ensures there is an effective framework at both our own manufacturing sites and in our supply chain;
in place and in use to manage the risks across each of our – Higher temperatures affecting the quality and availability
businesses as well as delivering on the commitments made. of some raw materials; and
Strategy – Increased costs of fossil fuels and the impact of carbon
Trust is one of our three long-term priorities and reducing our pricing on energy emissions.
environmental impact is an important part of the Trust priority. These findings build on our initial assessment and we are
To gain a better understanding of how climate change might using them to develop an approach to performing climate
impact our business, we built on the data reported in 2019 by risk scenario analysis as well as action plans to help mitigate
undertaking further scenario analyses to consider the long-term these longer-term risks and embed sustainability into strategy.
risks from climate change for four additional products from To support more environmentally sustainable decisions,
across our Vaccines, Pharmaceuticals and Consumer internal carbon pricing for capital investments is being piloted
Healthcare businesses. This means, taken in combination using a shadow price of $100 per tonne reflecting current best
with the work completed in 2019, we have developed climate practice to evaluate impact and the governance required with
scenario analyses for supply chains that cover approximately a view to implementation across the Group in 2021 with an aim
40% of our revenue stream. to ensure that the organisation’s assets become more carbon
efficient over time.
1 Scenarios are based on IPPC Representative Concentration Pathways 2.6,
4.5 and 8.5, the IEA World Energy Outlook 2018 New Policy Scenario,
Current Policy Scenario and Sustainable Development Scenario; and data
sets from WWF and WRI for water stress and flood risk modelling
46 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Risk management continued
Risk management We have established a transformation office that will review,
Environmental sustainability, which includes climate change assess and monitor progress towards our new goals and
risks, became a standalone principal risk to the business for commitments including key performance indicators such
2020. A specific and dedicated environmental sustainability as scope 1, 2 and 3 carbon emissions, the percentage of
enterprise risk plan has been put in place (for more details renewable electricity across our operations and the proportion
see Risk management on page 43). The risk plan covers of our sales force vehicles that are electric vehicles.
expectations that GSK is addressing its impact on the
More detail on the progress we are making towards achieving
environment, and that the environment has increasing impacts
our targets can be found in the Environment section on page 41,
on operational resilience such as access to energy, water
and in our public response to the CDP Climate and Water
and the natural resources used in products, along with any
questionnaires.
anticipated cost increases from regulatory changes or
environmental taxes. Next steps
We are committed to continuing to embed climate risk
An internal control framework has been established for
assessments and mitigation activities into our business.
environmental sustainability, including the appointment of
In 2021, we plan to review and aggregate our analysis
dedicated senior leaders for environmental sustainability to
to identify any hotspots and opportunities to continue
ensure that governance processes are in place and effective.
reducing our value chain carbon emissions. We will bring
Our performance in reducing carbon emissions, energy, further transparency of the impact scenarios and financial
water and waste will continue to be delivered and managed assessments in future Annual Reports.
by our mature programmes and will be enhanced by including
eco-design considerations into products and packaging.
Metrics and targets
Our new target is to have a net zero impact on climate by 2030,
and a net positive impact on nature by 2030. We aim to deliver
these goals by taking action on priority impact areas and
working with key external partners including our suppliers
and customers. The full set of targets that contribute to these
goals are available on GSK.com.
We have been accredited by the Science Based Targets
Initiative for a set of Scope 1, 2 and 3 targets in line with the
decarbonisation required to keep global temperature increases
to 1.5°C. We have joined the ‘race to zero’ to demonstrate
our commitment to the transition to a low carbon economy
ahead of COP26 to be held in the UK in 2021. We have joined
RE100, which aligns with our commitment to source 100%
of the electricity we use from renewable resources by 2025.
We have joined EV100, which aligns with our commitment
to decarbonise our fleet of sales vehicles.
We are also committed to moving towards deforestation-free
sourcing for all key commodities and are working with partners
such as the Roundtable for Sustainable Palm Oil and the
Rainforest Alliance.
GSK Annual Report 2020 47Risk management continued
Viability statement
In accordance with provision 31 of the 2018 revision of the The downside scenarios consider GSK’s cash flows,
Code, GSK has assessed the prospects of the Company sustainability of dividends, funding strategy, insurance provision
over a longer period than the 12 months required by the and recovery as well as other key financial ratios over the period.
‘Going Concern’ provision. The Directors confirm that they These metrics have been subject to sensitivity analysis, which
have a reasonable expectation that GSK will continue to operate involves flexing a number of the main assumptions underlying
and meet its liabilities, as they fall due, over the next three years. the forecasts both individually and in combination, along with
The Directors’ assessment has been made with reference mitigating actions that could realistically be taken to avoid or
to GSK’s current position and prospects, our strategy, reduce the impact or occurrence of the underlying risk.
the Board’s risk appetite and GSK’s principal risks and
The following hypothetical downside scenarios have been
how these are managed, as detailed on pages 43 to 45
evaluated:
in the Strategic report.
Scenario 1: Business performance risks. These include key
The Board reviews our internal controls and risk management
performance risks, including lower sales from new products;
policies and approves our governance structure and code
greater adverse impact from generic competition and other
of conduct. It also appraises and approves major financing,
competitive launches to other GSK products; as well as
investment and licensing decisions, and evaluates and monitors
possible supply and manufacturing challenges.
the performance and prospects of GSK as a whole. The focus
is largely on improving our long-term financial performance Scenario 2: External and macroeconomic risks. This scenario
through delivery of our company and three business strategies reflects incremental risks to the business driven by outside
and aligned Innovation, Performance and Trust priorities. factors, such as more intense competition, increased pricing
pressure in both the US and Europe as well as the potential
The Board reviews GSK’s strategy and makes significant capital
impact of material negative changes in the macro-economic
investment decisions over a long-term time horizon, based on
and healthcare environment.
a multi-year assessment of return on capital, the performance
of the company and three business units, and the market Scenario 3: Principal risks. This scenario includes a severe
opportunity in the pharmaceutical, vaccines and consumer assessment of the potential loss impact from the principal risks
sectors. This approach is aligned to GSK’s model of achieving related to patient safety, product quality, supply chain continuity
balanced growth by investing in high quality, innovative products and environmental sustainability as well as anti-bribery and
for patients, consumers and healthcare providers. However, corruption and any consequent regulatory actions or fines, all
since many internal and external parameters become of which could fundamentally threaten our operations. This
increasingly unpredictable over longer time horizons, GSK would include any potential severe impact of coronavirus if this
focuses its detailed, bottom-up Plan on a three-year cycle. were to materialise from supply chain disruptions. These risks
are managed through mitigating activities described on pages
The Plan is reviewed at least annually by the Directors, who
261 to 275.
approve business forecasts showing expected financial impact.
The Directors believe that a three-year assessment period Scenario 4: Put option exercise. This scenario evaluates the
for the Viability statement is most appropriate as it aligns with additional funding requirements assuming the earliest potential
the company’s well established business planning processes exercise of the outstanding put option held by our partner in
that balance the long-term nature of investments in the the HIV business.
pharmaceutical, vaccines and consumer sectors with an The future separation of the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture
assessment of the period over which analysis of near-term with Pfizer, if approved by the Board, is likely to occur within
business performance is realistically visible. the period covered by the viability assessment. We have
The Plan has been stress tested in a series of robust operational considered this scenario and have concluded that there is no
and principal risk downside scenarios as part of the Board’s material impact to viability for the Group or resultant separate
review on risk. These include potential risks associated with the companies over the three-year period of this assessment.
ongoing coronavirus pandemic, which have been considered The three-year review also makes certain assumptions about
within both the Plan and stress test downside scenarios. The the normal level of capital recycling likely to occur and considers
Plan assumes healthcare systems and consumer trends will whether additional financing facilities will be required and the
approach normality in the second half of 2021. For our vaccines respective level of funding flexibility and headroom.
business, the Plan assumes further disruption during the first
The results of this stress testing show that certain combinations
half of 2021, given governments’ prioritisation of coronavirus
of these hypothetical scenarios could increase funding
vaccination programmes and the resurgence in late 2020 of
demands on GSK and require mitigating changes to the
the pandemic. This is expected to impact adult and adolescent
Group’s funding strategy. However, in light of the liquidity
immunisations, including Shingrix, notably in the US. A strong
available to the Group and based on this analysis, the Directors
recovery and contribution to growth from Shingrix is assumed
have a reasonable expectation that, even under these most
in the second half of 2021. This has been stress tested with
severe stress tests, the company will be able to continue in
potential risks, principally from delays in business recovery.
operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the
three-year period of assessment.
48 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Risk management continued
Impact of Brexit
The UK left the EU on 31 January 2020 and the Brexit transition retesting and certification in the UK. We have completed
period ended on 31 December 2020 with a Trade and relevant marketing authorisation transfers, updated packaging
Cooperation Agreement (TCA) in place between the UK and and secured additional warehousing for our products. We
EU. Our overriding priority in preparing for the UK’s exit from continue to support our employees in obtaining settled status
the EU has been to maintain continuity of supply of our or equivalent in both the UK and Europe. We are complying
medicines, vaccines and consumer healthcare products to with new tax and customs requirements introduced at the new
people in the UK and EU. Our post-Brexit operating model borders and under the trade terms in place between the UK,
has been implemented, and we continue to work closely with EU and Northern Ireland.
Governments in both the UK and EU, as well as our third
Our expenditure to date on Brexit preparations has been
parties, on the effective implementation of the TCA and to
in line with projections and is mainly attributed to setting up
ensure that the life sciences sector continues to thrive and
retesting of our medicines and consumer products in the EU.
deliver innovation for patients in both the UK and EU.
We continue to anticipate subsequent and ongoing costs
GSK welcomes the Medicinal Products Annex in the TCA arising from Brexit could be up to approximately £50 million
and in particular the inclusion of mutual recognition on Good per year. Ongoing costs are due to the impact of customs
Manufacturing Practice (GMP) inspections. However, due to duties, increased logistics costs to traverse the new borders
the lack of agreed mutual recognition on batch testing, as part and the cost of duplicate testing and release of our products.
of our new model, we conduct retesting and certification of our As we continue to understand the technical implications of
medicines and consumer products in Europe, where required, the TCA, its implementation and corresponding guidance,
and are preparing to meet the phased-in requirements on the assumptions underlying these forecasts could change,
with consequent adjustments up or down.
Non-financial information statement
The following aligns to the non-financial reporting requirements contained in sections 414CA and 414CB
of the Companies Act 2006.
Description of the business model Human rights Policy, due diligence and outcomes
How we create value 01 Human rights 40 Summary of our principal risks 44
Data and engagement 40 Principal risks and uncertainties 261
Social matters
Third parties 40 Viability statement 48
Global health 34 Audit & Risk Committee report 97
Anti-corruption and bribery
Health security 34
Non-financial key performance
Affordability and availability 35 Living our values and expectations 39
indicators
Reporting and investigating concerns 39
Employees
Anti-bribery and corruption 39 Key performance indicators 11
Employee engagement 36
Environmental matters Our policies
Diversity 36
Wellbeing and development 38 Carbon, water and waste 41 All of our public policies, codes and
Gender pay gap 38 standards are available on GSK.com
Living our values and expectations 39
Board diversity 37
GSK Annual Report 2020 49Group
financial
review
In this section
Reporting framework 51
Our approach to tax 54
Financial performance 55
Adjusting items 64
Cash generation and conversion 68
Financial position and resources 69
Treasury policies 74
Critical accounting policies 75Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Group financial review
Reporting framework
Total and Adjusted results Costs for all other ordinary course smaller scale restructuring
The Group financial review discusses the operating and and legal charges and expenses are retained within both Total
financial performance of the Group, its cash flows and financial and Adjusted results.
position and our resources. The results for each year are
As Adjusted results include the benefits of Major restructuring
compared primarily with the results of the preceding year.
programmes but exclude significant costs (such as significant
Total results legal, major restructuring and transaction items), they should
Total reported results represent the Group’s overall not be regarded as a complete picture of the Group’s financial
performance. performance, which is presented in its Total results. The
exclusion of other Adjusting items may result in Adjusted
GSK also uses a number of adjusted, non-IFRS, measures to
earnings being materially higher or lower than Total earnings.
report the performance of its business. Adjusted results and
In particular, when significant impairments, restructuring
other non-IFRS measures may be considered in addition to,
charges and legal costs are excluded, Adjusted earnings
but not as a substitute for or superior to, information presented
will be higher than Total earnings.
in accordance with IFRS. Adjusted results are defined below
and other non-IFRS measures are defined on page 53. GSK is undertaking a number of Major restructuring
programmes in response to significant changes in the Group’s
GSK believes that Adjusted results, when considered together
trading environment or overall strategy, or following material
with Total results, provide investors, analysts and other
acquisitions. Costs, both cash and non-cash, of these
stakeholders with helpful complementary information to
programmes are provided for as individual elements
understand better the financial performance and position
are approved and meet the accounting recognition criteria.
of the Group from period to period, and allow the Group’s
As a result, charges may be incurred over a number of years
performance to be more easily compared against the majority
following the initiation of a Major restructuring programme.
of its peer companies. These measures are also used by
management for planning and reporting purposes. They may The Group has also initiated a two-year Separation Preparation
not be directly comparable with similarly described measures programme to prepare GSK for separation into two new
used by other companies. leading companies in biopharma and consumer healthcare.
GSK encourages investors and analysts not to rely on any From time to time, the Group divests non-core investments,
single financial measure but to review GSK’s Annual Reports, products and businesses and records the profit or loss on
including the financial statements and notes, in their entirety. disposal as an Adjusting item. The most notable divestment
in the year was the disposal of Horlicks and other Consumer
Adjusted results Healthcare brands.
Adjusted results exclude the following items from Total results,
Significant legal charges and expenses are those arising from
together with the tax effects of all of these items:
the settlement of litigation or government investigations that
– amortisation of intangible assets (excluding computer software are not in the normal course and are materially larger than more
and capitalised development costs) regularly occurring individual matters. They also include certain
– impairment of intangible assets (excluding computer major legacy matters.
software) and goodwill
Reconciliations between Total and Adjusted results, providing
– Major restructuring costs, which include impairments of further information on the key Adjusting items for 2019 and
tangible assets and computer software, (under specific 2020 are set out on page 64 and for the five years to 2020 are
Board-approved programmes that are structural, of a set out on pages 252 to 254.
significant scale and where the costs of individual or related
GSK provides earnings guidance to the investor community on
projects exceed £25 million) including integration costs
the basis of Adjusted results. This is in line with peer companies
following material acquisitions
and expectations of the investor community, supporting easier
– transaction-related accounting or other adjustments related comparison of the Group’s performance with its peers. GSK is
to significant acquisitions not able to give guidance for Total results as it cannot reliably
– proceeds and costs of disposals of associates, products forecast certain material elements of the Total results,
and businesses; significant legal charges (net of insurance particularly the future fair value movements on contingent
recoveries) and expenses on the settlement of litigation and consideration and put options that can and have given rise to
government investigations; other operating income other significant adjustments driven by external factors such as
than royalty income, and other items currency and other movements in capital markets.
– separation costs to prepare for the separation of GSK into
two companies
– the impact of the enactment of the US Tax Cuts and Jobs
Act in 2017.
GSK Annual Report 2020 51Group financial review continued
Reporting framework continued
Historical record of Adjusting items
The reconciliations between Total and Adjusted operating profit over the last five years can be summarised as follows:
2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
£m £m £m £m £m
Total operating profit 7,783 6,961 5,483 4,087 2,598
Intangible asset amortisation 775 777 580 591 588
Intangible asset impairment 263 83 116 688 20
Major restructuring 1,532 1,105 809 1,056 970
Transaction-related items 1,308 345 1,977 1,599 3,919
Divestments, significant legal and other items (2,823) (299) (220) (119) (424)
Separation costs 68 – – – –
US tax reform – – – 666 –
Adjusted operating profit 8,906 8,972 8,745 8,568 7,671
The analysis of the impact of transaction-related items on operating profit for each of the last five years is as follows:
2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
£m £m £m £m £m
Novartis Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture put option – – 658 986 1,133
Contingent consideration on former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare JV (including Shionogi preferential dividends) 1,114 31 1,188 556 2,162
ViiV Healthcare put options and Pfizer preferential dividends (52) (234) (58) (126) 577
Contingent consideration on former Novartis Vaccines business 172 76 58 101 69
Release of fair value uplift on acquired Pfizer inventory 91 366 – – –
Other adjustments (17) 106 131 82 (22)
Transaction-related items 1,308 345 1,977 1,599 3,919
Full reconciliations between Total and Adjusted results for 2016–2020 are set out on pages 252 to 254. Further explanations on
the Adjusting items for 2020 are reported on page 64.
Non-controlling interests in ViiV Healthcare ViiV Healthcare also agreed to pay additional future cash
Trading profit allocations consideration to Shionogi, contingent on the future sales
Because ViiV Healthcare is a subsidiary of the Group, 100% performance of the products being developed by that joint
of its operating results (turnover, operating profit, profit after tax) venture, principally dolutegravir. Under IFRS 3 ‘Business
are included within the Group income statement and then a combinations’, GSK was required to provide for the estimated
portion of the earnings is allocated to the non-controlling fair value of this contingent consideration at the time of
interests owned by the other shareholders, in line with their acquisition and is required to update the liability to the latest
respective equity shareholdings (Pfizer 11.7% and Shionogi estimate of fair value at each subsequent period end. The
10%). Each of the shareholders, including GSK, is also entitled liability for the contingent consideration recognised in the
to preferential dividends determined by the performance of balance sheet at the date of acquisition was £659 million.
certain products that each shareholder contributed. As the Subsequent remeasurements are reflected within other
relative performance of these products changes over time, operating income/expense and within Adjusting items in
the proportion of the overall earnings of ViiV Healthcare the income statement in each period, and at 31 December
allocated to each shareholder will change. In particular, the 2020, the liability, which is discounted at 8.5%, stood at
increasing proportion of sales of dolutegravir-containing £5,359 million, on a post-tax basis.
products has a favourable impact on the proportion of the Cash payments to settle the contingent consideration are
preferential dividends that is allocated to GSK. Adjusting items made to Shionogi by ViiV Healthcare each quarter, based on
are allocated to shareholders based on their equity interests. the actual sales performance of the relevant products in the
GSK was entitled to approximately 86% of the Total earnings previous quarter. These payments reduce the balance sheet
and 83% of the Adjusted earnings of ViiV Healthcare for 2020. liability and hence are not recorded in the income statement.
Remeasurements of the liabilities for the preferential dividends The cash payments made to Shionogi by ViiV Healthcare in
allocated to Pfizer and Shionogi are included within other 2020 were £858 million.
operating income/(expense).
Because the liability is required to be recorded at the fair value
Acquisition-related arrangements of estimated future payments, there is a significant timing
As consideration for the acquisition of Shionogi’s interest in difference between the charges that are recorded in the Total
the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture in 2012, income statement to reflect movements in the fair value of the
Shionogi received the 10% equity stake in ViiV Healthcare. liability and the actual cash payments made to settle the liability.
52 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Group financial review continued
Reporting framework continued
The cash payments are reflected in the cash flow statement However, during Q1 2016, GSK notified Shionogi that it had
partly in operating cash flows and partly within investing irrevocably given up this right and accordingly recognised the
activities. The tax relief on these payments is reflected in the liability for the put option on the Group’s balance sheet during
Group’s Adjusting items as part of the tax charge. The part Q1 2016 at an initial value of £926 million. In Q4 2016,
of each payment relating to the original estimate of the fair Shionogi irrevocably agreed to waive its put option and as a
value of the contingent consideration on the acquisition of the result GSK de-recognised the liability for this put option on
Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture in 2012 of £659 million the Group’s balance sheet directly to equity. The value of the
is reported within investing activities in the cash flow statement liability was £1,244 million when it was de-recognised.
and the part of each payment relating to the increase in the
GSK also has a call option over Shionogi’s shareholding in
liability since the acquisition is reported within operating cash
ViiV Healthcare, which under the original agreements was
flows.
exercisable in six-month windows commencing in 2027, 2030
Movements in contingent consideration payable to Shionogi and 2032. GSK has now irrevocably agreed to waive the first
were as follows: two exercise windows, but the last six-month window in 2032
2020 2019 remains. As this call option is at fair value, it has no value for
£m £m accounting purposes.
Contingent consideration at beginning of the year 5,103 5,937
Free cash flow
Remeasurement through income statement 1,114 31
Free cash flow is defined as the net cash inflow from operating
Cash payments: operating cash flows (751) (767)
activities less capital expenditure on property, plant and
Cash payments: investing activities (107) (98)
equipment and intangible assets, contingent consideration
Contingent consideration at end of the year 5,359 5,103
payments, net finance costs, and dividends paid to non-
Of the contingent consideration payable (on a post-tax basis) controlling interests plus proceeds from the sale of property,
to Shionogi at 31 December 2020, £745 million (31 December plant and equipment and intangible assets, and dividends
2019 – £730 million) is expected to be paid within one year. received from joint ventures and associates. It is used by
management for planning and reporting purposes and in
Exit rights
discussions with and presentations to investment analysts
Pfizer may request an IPO of ViiV Healthcare at any time and if
and rating agencies. Free cash flow growth is calculated
either GSK does not consent to such IPO or an offering is not
on a reported basis. A reconciliation of net cash inflow from
completed within nine months, Pfizer could require GSK to
operations to free cash flow is set out on page 68.
acquire its shareholding. Under the original agreements, GSK
had the unconditional right, so long as it made no subsequent CER and AER growth
distribution to its shareholders, to withhold its consent to the In order to illustrate underlying performance, it is the Group’s
exercise of the Pfizer put option and, as a result, in accordance practice to discuss its results in terms of constant exchange
with IFRS, GSK did not recognise a liability for the put option rate (CER) growth. This represents growth calculated as if
on its balance sheet. However, during Q1 2016, GSK notified the exchange rates used to determine the results of overseas
Pfizer that it had irrevocably given up this right and accordingly companies in Sterling had remained unchanged from those
recognised the liability for the put option on the Group’s balance used in the comparative period. CER% represents growth
sheet during Q1 2016 at an initial value of £1,070 million. at constant exchange rates. £% or AER% represents growth
Consistent with this revised treatment, at the end of Q1 2016 at actual exchange rates.
GSK also recognised liabilities for the future preferential
Pro-forma growth
dividends anticipated to become payable to Pfizer and Shionogi
The acquisition of the Pfizer consumer healthcare business
on the Group’s balance sheet.
completed on 31 July 2019.
The closing balances of the liabilities related to Pfizer’s
The Group has presented pro-forma growth rates at CER for
shareholding are as follows:
turnover, Adjusted operating profit and operating profit by
2020 2019 business taking account of this transaction. Pro-forma growth
£m £m
rates at CER for 2020 are calculated comparing reported results
Pfizer put option 960 1,011
for 2020, calculated applying the exchange rates used in the
Pfizer preferential dividend 1 4
comparative period, with the results for 2019, adjusted to include
the equivalent seven months of results to 31 July 2019 of the
Under the original agreements, Shionogi could also have
former Pfizer consumer healthcare business, as consolidated
requested GSK to acquire its shareholding in ViiV Healthcare
(in US$) and included in Pfizer’s US GAAP results.
in six-month windows commencing in 2017, 2020 and 2022.
GSK had the unconditional right, so long as it made no Return on capital employed
subsequent distribution to its shareholders, to withhold its Return on capital employed is calculated as total profit before
consent to the exercise of the Shionogi put option and, as a taxation as a percentage of average net assets over the year.
result, GSK did not recognise a liability for the put option on
Net debt
its balance sheet.
Please see Note 29 ‘Net Debt’ for the calculation of net debt.
GSK Annual Report 2020 53Group financial review continued
Our approach to tax
We understand our responsibility to pay an appropriate amount In 2020, an ongoing public focus on the tax affairs of
of tax, and fully support efforts to ensure that companies are multinational companies has included a major project of the
appropriately transparent about how their tax affairs are Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development
managed. Tax is an important element of the economic (OECD) on ‘Addressing the Tax Challenges of the Digitalisation
contribution we bring to the countries in which we operate. of the Economy’. GSK welcomes the OECD’s efforts to identify
We do not engage in artificial tax arrangements – those without a long-term, sustainable and consensus-driven solution to the
business or commercial substance. We do not seek to avoid tax tax challenges resulting from digitalisation and has been active
by the use of ‘tax havens’ or transactions we would not fully in providing relevant business input to assist in the successful
disclose to a tax authority. We have a zero tolerance approach delivery of the aims of the project. In order to create a long
to tax evasion and the facilitation of tax evasion. lasting, stable and certain business environment for both
taxpayers and governments, a multilateral consensus-based
We have a substantial business and employment presence in
approach, grounded in clearly defined and accepted principles,
many countries around the globe and we pay a significant
is critical and the incentive to innovate must not be diluted.
amount of tax, including corporation and other business taxes,
as well as tax associated with our employees. At the same time, A continued focus on tax reform during 2020 was driven by the
we have a responsibility to our shareholders to be financially OECD’s Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) project and
efficient and deliver a sustainable tax rate. As part of this EC initiatives, such as fiscal state aid investigations and the
approach we look to align our investment strategies to those introduction of ‘Mandatory Disclosure’ rules. The outputs from
countries where we already have substantial economic activity, the OECD BEPS project clarified the important principle that
and where government policies promote regimes which are tax should be paid on profits throughout the supply chain,
attractive to business investment and R&D activity and are where the profit-making activity takes place. GSK is subject to
transparent in their intent and available to all relevant tax payers. taxation throughout its supply chain.
Examples include the UK Patent Box and Research and
GSK supports the BEPS proposals, in particular the
Development Expenditure Credit.
implementation of the OECD’s recommendations on ‘Country
Tax risk in all countries in which we operate is managed through by Country Reporting’, including the exchange of this data
robust internal policies, processes, training and compliance between tax authorities. This data, validated against existing
programmes. Our Board of Directors and the Audit & Risk information held on taxpayers, will support their ability to ensure
Committee are responsible for approving our tax policies and that multinational groups pay an appropriate amount of tax.
risk management arrangements as part of our wider internal
The UK left the EU on 31 January 2020 and the Brexit transition
control framework. We seek to develop cooperative
period ended on 31 December 2020 with a Trade and
relationships with tax authorities, based on mutual respect,
Cooperation Agreement (TCA) in place between the UK and
transparency and trust. Where appropriate, we also provide
EU. We are complying with new tax and customs requirements
constructive business input on tax policy matters, advocating
introduced at the new borders and under the trade terms in
for reform that supports economic growth, job creation and
place between the UK and the EU. With the UK/EU TCA
the needs of our patients.
agreed in December 2020 and due to the complexity of its
In 2020, the Group corporate tax charge was £580 million interaction with the UK continuity Free Trade Agreements, the
(2019 – £953 million) on profits before tax of £6,968 million full impact on taxes will only be fully quantifiable later in 2021.
(2019 – £6,221 million) representing an effective tax rate of The direct tax implications are expected to be limited but the
8.3% (2019 – 15.3%). We made cash tax payments of indirect tax implications may be more significant, including for
£1,655 million in the year (2019 – £1,512 million). In addition example additional customs duty on those products not covered
to the taxes we pay on our profits, we pay duties, levies, by the UK/EU TCA and other irrecoverable indirect tax costs.
transactional and employment taxes. GSK was well prepared for the additional administrative
complexity on tax arrangements for the new borders around the
Our Adjusted tax rate for 2020 was 16.0% (2019 – 16.0%).
UK and Great Britain to ensure continuity of supply. Our wider
The rate has benefitted from the cancellation by the UK
approach to Brexit is set out on page 49.
Government of a reduction in the UK corporation tax rate from
19% to 17% resulting in an increase in the value of balance sheet Our Tax Strategy is set out in detail within the Public policies
tax assets. Subject to any material changes in our product mix, or section of our website. Further details about our corporate tax
other material changes in tax regulations or laws in the countries charges for the year are set out on page 14.
in which we operate, the Group’s average effective Adjusted tax
rate in the medium term is expected to be around 19%.
The Group’s Total tax rate for 2020 of 8.3% (2019 – 15.3%)
was lower than the Adjusted tax rate mainly due to the tax effect
of the disposal of Horlicks and other Consumer Healthcare
brands to Unilever and the subsequent disposal of shares
received in Hindustan Unilever.
54 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Group financial review continued
Financial performance
Group turnover (£bn) The Total results of the Group are set out below.
Pro-forma
£34.1bn AER growth CER growth CER growth 2020 2019 Growth
1% 3% (2)% % of % of
£m turnover £m turnover £% CER%
Turnover 34,099 100 33,754 100 1 3
Cost of sales (11,704) (34.3) (11,863) (35.1) (1) –
2018 30.8 Selling, general and
administration (11,456) (33.6) (11,402) (33.8) – 2
2019 33.8 Research and
development (5,098) (15.0) (4,568) (13.5) 12 12
2020 34.1 Royalty income 318 0.9 351 1.1 (9) (9)
Other operating
0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35
income/(expense) 1,624 4.8 689 1.9
Operating profit 7,783 22.8 6,961 20.6 12 15
Net finance costs (848) (814)
Total operating profit (£bn) Share of after-tax
profits of associates
£7.8bn AER growth CER growth and joint ventures 33 74
12% 15% Profit before taxation 6,968 6,221 12 16
Taxation (580) (953)
Profit after taxation
for the year 6,388 5,268 21 25
2018 5.5
Profit attributable to
shareholders 5,749 4,645
2019 7.0
Earnings per share (p) 115.5 93.9 23 26
2020 7.8 Earnings per ADS
(US$) 2.98 2.40
0 2 4 6 8 10
The Adjusted results for the Group are set out below.
Reconciliations between Total results and Adjusted results for
2020 and 2019 are set out on page 64.
Adjusted operating profit (£bn)
2020 2019 Growth
Pro-forma Pro-
£8.9bn AER growth CER growth CER growth forma
(1)% 2% (3)% % of % of growth
£m turnover £m turnover £% CER% CER%
Turnover 34,099 100 33,754 100 1 3 (2)
Cost of sales (10,191) (29.9)(10,079) (29.9) 1 2 (3)
2018 8.7 Selling,
general and
2019 9.0 administration (10,717) (31.4)(10,715) (31.7) – 2 (3)
Research and
2020 8.9 development (4,603) (13.5) (4,339) (12.9) 6 7 6
Royalty
0 2 4 6 8 10
income 318 0.9 351 1.1 (9) (9) (9)
Adjusted
GSK uses a number of adjusted, non-IFRS, measures to report
operating
the performance of its business. Adjusted results and other profit 8,906 26.1 8,972 26.6 (1) 2 (3)
non-IFRS measures may be considered in addition to, but not
Adjusted
as a substitute for or superior to, information presented in profit
accordance with IFRS. Adjusted results and other non-IFRS attributable
measures are defined on pages 51 and 53. to shareholders 5,769 6,131 (6) (3)
Adjusted
earnings
per share (p) 115.9 123.9 (6) (4)
GSK Annual Report 2020 55Group financial review continued
Financial performance continued
Group turnover Pharmaceuticals
Group turnover by business Turnover (£bn)
2020 2019 Growth Growth
£m £m £% CER% £17.1bn AER growth CER growth
(3)% (1)%
Pharmaceuticals 17,056 17,554 (3) (1)
Vaccines 6,982 7,157 (2) (1) 50% of Group turnover
Consumer Healthcare 10,033 8,995 12 14
34,071 33,706 1 3
Corporate and other 2018 17.3
unallocated turnover 28 48
34,099 33,754 1 3 2019 17.6
Pro-forma growth (2)
2020 17.1
Group turnover by geographic region
0 5 10 15 20
2020 2019 Growth Growth
£m £m £% CER% Pharmaceuticals turnover
US 14,556 13,890 5 6
2020 2019 Growth Growth
Europe 8,164 8,069 1 1 £m £m £% CER%
International 11,379 11,795 (4) – Respiratory 3,749 3,081 22 23
34,099 33,754 1 3 HIV 4,876 4,854 – 1
Immuno-inflammation 727 613 19 20
Group turnover was £34,099 million in the year, up 1% AER,
Oncology 372 230 62 62
3% CER. On a pro-forma basis, Group turnover was down 2%
Established Pharmaceuticals 7,332 8,776 (16) (15)
CER, but up 1% at CER excluding the impact of divestments
17,056 17,554 (3) (1)
in Vaccines and brands divested or under review in Consumer
Healthcare. Pharmaceuticals turnover in the year was £17,056 million,
Pharmaceuticals turnover in the year was £17,056 million, down 3% AER, 1% CER. Respiratory sales were up 22% AER,
down 3% AER, 1% CER. Respiratory sales were up 22% AER, 23% CER, to £3,749 million, on growth of Trelegy, Nucala
23% CER, to £3,749 million. HIV sales were flat at AER, up 1% and Relvar/Breo. HIV sales were flat at AER, up 1% CER, to
CER, to £4,876 million. Sales of Established Pharmaceuticals £4,876 million, with growth in Juluca and Dovato partly offset
declined 16% AER, 15% CER to £7,332 million. by Tivicay and Triumeq. Sales of Established Pharmaceuticals
declined 16% AER, 15% CER to £7,332 million.
Vaccines turnover declined 2% AER, 1% CER to
£6,982 million, primarily driven by the adverse impact of the Towards the end of the first quarter, additional demand related
COVID-19 pandemic on Hepatitis vaccines, DTPa-containing to the COVID-19 pandemic had a positive impact on growth
vaccines, Synflorix and Bexsero, together with the divestment of HIV and Respiratory products. This effect broadly reversed
of Rabipur and Encepur. This decline was partly offset by higher in the second quarter, which saw lower levels of new patient
sales of Influenza vaccines across all regions and by Shingrix prescriptions in the US and Europe and reduced market
growth in Europe, China and the US, together with a strong demand for allergy and antibiotic products in International and
performance from Cervarix in China. Europe. These effects continued to be seen in the second half
of the year.
Reported Consumer Healthcare sales grew 12% AER and
14% CER to £10,033 million for the full year, largely driven In the US, sales grew 1% AER, 2% CER. Continued growth
by the inclusion of the Pfizer portfolio, partly offset by brands of Nucala, Trelegy, Benlysta, Zejula and the HIV two-drug
divested/under review. On a pro-forma basis, sales declined regimens was partly offset by the decline in Tivicay, Triumeq
2% CER, but grew 4% CER excluding brands divested/under and Established Products, including the impact of generic
review, reflecting the underlying strength of brands across albuterol substitutes.
the portfolio, strong growth in e-commerce, and successful In Europe, sales declined 1% AER, 1% CER, with growth from
execution meeting evolving consumer demand as a result of Respiratory, HIV and Oncology offset by the decline of Established
the pandemic. Pharmaceuticals sales, impacted by generic competition and lower
demand for antibiotics during the COVID-19 pandemic period.
Approximately one percentage point of decline was due to the
impact of a one-off UK Relenza contract in the comparator.
56 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Group financial review continued
Financial performance continued
International declined 9% AER, 5% CER, with Respiratory and In the US, dolutegravir sales were flat at AER, up 1% CER, and
Benlysta growth partly offset by lower Established in Europe dolutegravir sales grew 7% AER, 6% CER. Following
Pharmaceuticals sales. This included the impact of a weaker recent launches of Dovato, combined sales of the two-drug
allergy season and generic competition for Avolve in Japan, regimens were £616 million in the US and £227 million in
slower market growth during the COVID-19 pandemic period Europe, with growth offsetting the decline in Triumeq.
and government mandated changes increasing the use of International dolutegravir sales declined 2% AER but grew
generics in China. 3% CER driven by Tivicay tender business.
Respiratory Oncology
Total Respiratory sales were up 22% AER, 23% CER, with Sales of Zejula, the PARP inhibitor asset acquired from Tesaro
strong growth in all regions. International Respiratory sales grew in Q1 2019, were £339 million in the year, up 48% AER, 48%
24% AER, 27% CER including Nucala, up 45% AER, 46% CER, driven by volume growth compared with the prior year.
CER and Relvar/Breo, up 6% AER, 9% CER to £328 million.
Blenrep for the treatment of patients with relapsed or refractory
In Europe, Respiratory sales grew to £944 million up 21% AER,
multiple myeloma was approved and launched in the US and
20% CER. In the US, Respiratory grew 21% AER, 23% CER
Europe in Q3 2020 and reported sales of £33 million.
including Trelegy and Nucala. US Relvar/Breo sales grew
24% AER, 25% CER, mainly due to the effect of a prior period Immuno-inflammation
RAR adjustment. Sales of Benlysta in the year were up 17% AER, 19% CER to
£719 million, including sales of the sub-cutaneous formulation
Sales of Nucala were £994 million in the year and grew 29%
of £354 million up 32% AER, 33% CER.
AER, 30% CER, with US sales up 32% AER, 33% CER to
£598 million. Europe sales of £238 million grew 16% AER, Duvroq for patients with anaemia due to chronic kidney disease
15% CER and International sales of £158 million grew 45% was launched in Japan in Q3 2020 and reported sales in the
AER, 46% CER. International region of £8 million.
Trelegy sales were up 58% AER, 59% CER to £819 million Established Pharmaceuticals
driven by growth in all regions. In the US, the new asthma
Sales of Established Pharmaceuticals in the year were
indication was approved and launched in Q3 2020, with sales
£7,332 million, down 16% AER, 15% CER.
up 47% AER, 48% CER to £561 million. In Europe, sales grew
Established Respiratory products declined 17% AER,
65% AER, 65% CER and in International, where Trelegy
15% CER to £3,251 million. Advair/Seretide and Ventolin
asthma was approved in Japan in the quarter, sales grew to
were impacted by generic substitutes in the US and Europe,
£90 million in the year.
and Flovent experienced price pressure in the US. In the
Relvar/Breo sales were up 16% AER, 17% CER to
International region, allergy sales were impacted by market
£1,124 million in the year. In the US, Relvar/Breo grew 24%
contraction and a generic launch in Japan.
AER, 25% CER, mainly due to the effect of a prior period
The remainder of the Established Pharmaceuticals portfolio
RAR adjustment. In Europe and International, Relvar/Breo
declined 16% AER, 14% CER to £4,081 million on lower
continued to grow, up 14% AER, 13% CER and 6% AER,
demand for antibiotics during the COVID-19 pandemic period,
9% CER respectively.
the impact of government mandated changes increasing the
HIV use of generics in markets including Japan, France and China,
HIV sales were £4,876 million, flat at AER, up 1% CER in the and a strong comparator, including a European contract.
year. The dolutegravir franchise grew 1% AER, 2% CER,
delivering sales of £4,702 million. The remaining portfolio,
with sales of £174 million and 4% of total HIV sales, declined
21% AER, 20% CER and reduced the overall growth of total
HIV by one percentage point.
Sales of dolutegravir products were £4,702 million in the twelve
months. Tivicay delivered sales of £1,527 million, down 8%
AER, 7% CER and Triumeq sales were £2,306 million, down
10% AER, 9% CER. The two-drug regimens, Juluca and
Dovato delivered sales of £869 million in the twelve months,
with combined growth more than offsetting decline in the
three-drug regimen, Triumeq.
GSK Annual Report 2020 57Group financial review continued
Financial performance continued
Vaccines In the following categories declines are related to pandemic
impacts unless stated otherwise.
Turnover (£bn)
Meningitis
£7.0bn AER growth CER growth Meningitis sales grew 1% AER, 3% CER to £1,029 million.
(2)% (1)% Bexsero sales declined 4% AER, 2% CER to £650 million,
reflecting lower demand in the US and International, partly offset
21% of Group turnover
by lower US returns and rebates.
Menveo sales declined 1% AER but grew 1% CER to
2018 5.9 £265 million, primarily driven by higher demand in Europe and
lower US returns and rebates, partly offset by lower demand in
2019 7.2 the US and competitive pressure in International.
2020 7.0 In the US, Bexsero and Menveo both grew market share.
0 2 4 6 8 10 Influenza
Fluarix/FluLaval sales were £733 million, up 35% AER,
Vaccines turnover 37% CER, primarily reflecting robust demand across all
2020 2019 Growth Growth regions resulting from strong government recommendations
£m £m £% CER% that prioritised flu vaccination during COVID-19 pandemic
Meningitis 1,029 1,018 1 3
conditions, together with the reversal of a prior year returns
Influenza 733 541 35 37 provision in the US.
Shingles 1,989 1,810 10 11
Established Vaccines 3,231 3,788 (15) (14) Shingles
6,982 7,157 (2) (1) Shingrix grew 10% AER, 11% CER to £1,989 million, primarily
driven by a strong performance in Europe reflecting robust
Vaccines turnover declined 2% AER, 1% CER to underlying demand in Germany. The launch of Shingrix in China
£6,982 million, primarily driven by the adverse impact of the
also contributed to sales growth. In the US, a decline in demand
COVID-19 pandemic on Hepatitis vaccines, DTPa-containing
in Q2 and Q3 2020 due to lower adult wellness visits and
vaccines, Synflorix and Bexsero, together with the divestment
vaccination rates was partially offset by strong uptake in
of Rabipur and Encepur. This decline was partly offset by higher
Q1 2020 and return to growth, as expected, in Q4 2020
sales of Influenza vaccines across all regions and by Shingrix
supported by co-administration with seasonal flu vaccination
growth in Europe, China and the US, together with a strong
programmes.
performance from Cervarix in China.
Established Vaccines
Vaccines performance across all regions was affected by lower
Sales of DTPa-containing vaccines (Infanrix, Pediarix and
demand due to limited visits to healthcare practitioners and
Boostrix) declined by 16% AER, 15% CER. Infanrix/Pediarix
points of vaccination during the pandemic and government
sales declined 14% AER, 13% CER to £629 million, reflecting
stay-at-home directives. In areas where lockdowns were lifted,
lower demand in the US and unfavourable year-on-year US
wellness visits and vaccination rates recovered, with paediatric
CDC stockpile movements, together with supply constraints
vaccination near pre-COVID levels by the end of Q2 2020,
and competitive pressures in Europe.
while adolescent and adult immunisations improved at a slower
pace. US back-to-school vaccinations were disrupted because Boostrix sales were down 18% AER, 18% CER to £476 million
schools and universities delayed or reversed in-person tuition, primarily due to lower vaccination rates across all regions.
which elongated the back-to-school vaccination season into
Hepatitis vaccines declined 34% AER, 33% CER to
Q4 2020. Adult wellness visits returned to prior year levels at
£576 million, adversely impacted in the US and Europe by lower
the end of Q3 2020 supported by seasonal flu vaccination and
demand and travel restrictions, together with competition
declined late in Q4 2020 as pandemic conditions worsened.
returning to the market in the US.
Synflorix sales declined by 14% AER, 14% CER to
£402 million, primarily due to lower demand in International and
supply constraints in Emerging Markets.
Rotarix sales were flat at AER but grew 1% at CER to
£559 million, reflecting improved supply in Emerging Markets
and higher demand in Europe, partly offset by lower channel
inventory in the US.
MMRV vaccines sales grew 13% AER, 14% CER to
£261 million, largely driven by improved supply and increased
market shares in Europe.
58 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Group financial review continued
Financial performance continued
Consumer Healthcare Quarterly performance was volatile during the year as a direct
result of the COVID-19 pandemic, with sales pro-forma CER
excluding brands divested/under review up 14% in the first
Turnover (£bn)
Pro-forma quarter given accelerated purchases, flat in the second quarter
£10.0bn AER growth CER growth CER growth as most of this reversed, up 3% in the third quarter, and up 1%
12% 14% (2)% in the final quarter of the year.
29% of Group turnover Oral health
Oral health sales grew 3% AER, 6% CER to £2,753 million.
Sensodyne continued to outperform with low-double digit
2018 7.7 growth, reflecting underlying brand strength, successful
innovation including Sensodyne Sensitivity & Gum and strong
2019 9.0
consumer uptake in traditional retail and e-commerce channels
2020 10.0 in the US. Gum health continued to deliver double digit growth,
consistent with trends throughout the year, whilst Denture care
0 2 4 6 8 10
declined in low-single digits given challenging market conditions
consistent with prior quarters.
Consumer Healthcare turnover
2020 2019 Growth Growth Pain relief
£m £m £% CER% Pain relief grew 25% AER, 27% CER to £2,219 million. On a
Oral health 2,753 2,673 3 6
pro-forma basis, sales grew in mid-single digits, driven by the
Pain relief 2,219 1,781 25 27 successful Rx to OTC switch with Voltaren in the US. Panadol
Vitamins, minerals and supplements 1,506 611 >100 >100 increased in mid-single digits with increased consumption
Respiratory health 1,209 1,186 2 4 earlier in the year offsetting brand decline in the final quarter.
Digestive health and other 1,824 1,646 11 14 Advil delivered improved performance in the US in the second
9,511 7,897 20 23 half of the year and ended the year up in low-single digits.
Brands divested/under review 522 1,098 (52) (51)
Vitamins, minerals and supplements
10,033 8,995 12 14
Vitamins, minerals and supplements more than doubled at AER
and CER to £1,506 million. On a pro-forma basis, sales
2020 2019 Growth Growth continued to grow in the high-teens per cent, consistent with
£m £m £% CER%
prior quarters, due to strong performance by Centrum, Caltrate
US 3,408 2,583 32 33
and Emergen-C. The particularly strong category growth
Europe 2,619 2,456 7 6
reflected the continued consumer focus on health and wellness,
International 4,006 3,956 1 7
consistent with previous quarters and as a result of the
10,033 8,995 12 14
COVID-19 pandemic, combined with the business’s ability
Pro-forma growth (2) to successfully and quickly adapt, execute and deliver to meet
On a reported basis, sales grew 12% AER and 14% CER to consumer needs.
£10,033 million for the full year, largely driven by the inclusion
Respiratory health
of the Pfizer portfolio, partly offset by brands divested/under
Respiratory health sales grew 2% AER, 4% CER to
review.
£1,209 million. On a pro-forma basis, sales declined in
On a pro-forma basis, sales declined 2% CER, but grew mid-single digits, driven by a lower cold and flu season in the
4% CER excluding brands divested/under review, reflecting final quarter which more than offset the benefit from increased
the underlying strength of brands across the portfolio and consumption in the first quarter due to the COVID-19
categories, strong growth in e-commerce, and successful pandemic, as a result Robitussin, Contac and Theraflu all
execution meeting evolving consumer demand as a result of declined for the full year. Allergy and nasal product performance
the pandemic. was more mixed with Flonase growth in low-single digits and
Overall results benefited from very strong growth in Vitamins, Otrivin declining in mid-single digits.
minerals and supplements as well as continued growth in Oral
Digestive health and other
health, Pain relief and Digestive health and other. Although
Digestive health and other brands grew 11% AER, 14% CER
Respiratory health sales were up 4% CER for the full year
to £1,824 million. On a pro-forma basis, sales declined in
this benefited from increased consumption in the first quarter,
low-single digits with growth in Digestive health products offset
with sales declines throughout the rest of the year which were
by a decline in Skin health products and other non-strategic
particularly pronounced in the fourth quarter as a result of the
brands. Smokers’ health products were flat for the year.
historically weak cold and flu season.
GSK Annual Report 2020 59Group financial review continued
Financial performance continued
Cost of sales The growth in Adjusted SG&A costs, although flat at AER, grew
2020 2019 Growth Growth 2% CER. On a pro-forma basis costs reduced 3% CER and
£m £m £% CER% reflected the benefits from restructuring including one-off
Total cost of sales (11,704) (11,863) (1) – benefits from restructuring of post-retirement benefits and
Adjusted cost of sales (10,191) (10,079) 1 2 the continuing benefit of restructuring in Pharmaceuticals,
Total cost of sales as a percentage of turnover was 34.3%, Consumer Healthcare and support functions, reduced variable
0.8 percentage points lower at AER and 1.0 percentage points spending across all three businesses as a result of the
lower in CER terms compared with 2019. This primarily COVID-19 lockdowns and tight control of ongoing costs,
reflected lower unwinding of the fair market value uplift on particularly in non-promotional spending across all three
inventory arising on completion of the Consumer Healthcare businesses. This was partly offset by increased investment in
Joint Venture with Pfizer in Q3 2019. promotional product support, particularly for new launches in
Vaccines, Respiratory and HIV.
Excluding these and other Adjusting items, Adjusted cost of
sales as a percentage of turnover was 29.9%, flat at AER, but Research and development
0.1 percentage points lower at CER compared with 2019. On
2020 2019 Growth Growth
a pro-forma basis, Adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of £m £m £% CER%
turnover was 29.9%, 0.3 percentage points lower at CER, Total research and development (5,098) (4,568) 12 12
compared with 2019. This reflected a more favourable product Adjusted research and development (4,603) (4,339) 6 7
mix in Pharmaceuticals and a further contribution from Total R&D expenditure was £5,098 million (15.0% of turnover),
restructuring savings in Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines and up 12% AER, 12% CER, including an increase in Major
integration savings in Consumer Healthcare, partly offset by restructuring costs and intangible impairments. Adjusted R&D
adverse product mix in Vaccines and continued adverse pricing expenditure was £4,603 million (13.5% of turnover), 6% higher
pressure in Pharmaceuticals, principally in Established at AER, 7% higher at CER than in 2019. On a pro-forma basis,
Respiratory. Adjusted R&D expenditure grew 6% CER compared with 2019.
Selling, general and administration
Pharmaceuticals Adjusted R&D expenditure was
2020 2019 Growth Growth £3,636 million, up 9% AER, 9% CER, primarily driven by the
£m £m £% CER%
significant increase in investment in Oncology, reflecting the
Total selling, general and
progression of a number of key programmes including Blenrep,
administration (11,456) (11,402) – 2
feladilimab and bintrafusp alfa, as well as progression of
Adjusted selling, general and
COVID-19 treatment programmes (VIR-7831, otilimab). This
administration (10,717) (10,715) – 2
was partly offset by a reduction in investment in research and
Total selling, general and administration (SG&A) costs as a
several Specialty and Primary Care programmes (daprodustat,
percentage of turnover were 33.6%, 0.2 percentage points
Trelegy, HIV) as well as efficiency savings from the
lower at AER and 0.2 percentage points lower at CER
implementation of the One Development programme for
compared with 2019. This reflected lower significant legal and
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines as part of the Separation
transaction costs offset by increased Major restructuring costs
Preparation restructuring programme and reductions in variable
and separation costs.
spending as a result of COVID-19 lockdowns.
Excluding these and other Adjusting items, Adjusted SG&A
Adjusted R&D expenditure in Vaccines was £686 million, down
costs as a percentage of turnover were 31.4%, 0.3 percentage
4% AER, 4% CER reflecting efficiency savings from the
points lower at AER than in 2019 and 0.3 percentage points
implementation of the One Development programme and
lower on a CER basis. On a pro-forma basis, Adjusted SG&A
reductions in variable spending as a result of COVID-19
costs as a percentage of turnover were 31.4%, 0.4 percentage
lockdowns. Adjusted R&D expenditure in Consumer Healthcare
points lower at CER, compared with 2019.
was £281 million.
Royalty income
Royalty income was £318 million (2019 – £351 million), down
9% AER, 9% CER, primarily reflecting genericisation of
Transderm Scop in Consumer Healthcare and lower sales
of Gardasil.
60 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Group financial review continued
Financial performance continued
Other operating income/(expense) The reduction in pro-forma Adjusted operating profit reflects the
Net other operating income of £1,624 million (2019 – adverse impact from the reduction in sales in Vaccines as a
£689 million) primarily reflected the net profit on disposal of result of the COVID-19 pandemic, investment in R&D including
the Horlicks and other Consumer Healthcare brands of a significant increase in Oncology, partly on the assets from the
£2,815 million in Q2 2020, which was after reversal of Tesaro acquisition and initiation of several COVID-19
£240 million of embedded derivative gains on the value of the programmes, continuing price pressure, principally in
shares taken in prior years. This was partly offset by the related Established Respiratory, including the impact of the launch of a
loss on sale of the shares in Hindustan Unilever in Q2 2020 generic version of Advair in the US in February 2019 and
of £476 million. Other operating income also included an investments in promotional product support, particularly for new
increase in profit and milestone income from a number of launches in Vaccines, HIV and Respiratory. This was offset by
asset disposals. reduced promotional and variable spending across all three
businesses as a result of the COVID-19 lockdowns, a one-off
This was partly offset by accounting charges of £1,234 million
benefit in Q3 2020 from restructuring of post-retirement
(2019 – £127 million credits) arising from the re-measurement
benefits and the continuing benefit of restructuring in
of the contingent consideration liabilities related to the
Pharmaceuticals, Consumer Healthcare and support functions
acquisitions of the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture
and tight control of ongoing costs, particularly in non-
and the former Novartis Vaccines business and the liabilities for
promotional spending across all three businesses.
the Pfizer put option and Pfizer and Shionogi preferential
dividends in ViiV Healthcare. This included a re-measurement Contingent consideration cash payments which are made to
charge of £1,114 million (2019 – £31 million) for the contingent Shionogi and other companies reduce the balance sheet liability
consideration liability due to Shionogi, primarily arising from and hence are not recorded in the income statement. Total
changes in sales forecasts, exchange rate assumptions and the contingent consideration cash payments in 2020 amounted to
unwind of discounting. £885 million (2019 – £893 million). This included cash
payments made to Shionogi of £858 million (2019 –
Operating profit
£865 million).
Total operating profit was £7,783 million in 2020 compared with
£6,961 million in 2019. This reflected the profit on disposal of Adjusted operating profit by business
the Horlicks and other Consumer Healthcare brands and Pharmaceuticals operating profit was £4,185 million, down
resultant sale of shares in Hindustan Unilever as well as 9% AER, 7% CER on a turnover decrease of 1% CER. The
increased income from asset disposals. This was partly offset operating margin of 24.5% was 1.6 percentage points lower at
by higher re-measurement charges on the contingent AER than in 2019 and 1.5 percentage points lower on a CER
consideration liabilities. basis. This primarily reflected a significant increase in Oncology
R&D as well as the continued impact of lower prices, including
Excluding these and other Adjusting items, Adjusted operating
the impact of the launch of a generic version of Advair in the US
profit was £8,906 million, 1% lower than 2019 at AER and 2%
in February 2019, and investment in new product support and
higher at CER on a turnover increase of 3% CER. The Adjusted
targeted priority markets. This was partly offset by the reduced
operating margin of 26.1% was 0.5 percentage points lower at
promotional and variable spending as a result of the COVID-19
AER, and 0.2 percentage points lower on a CER basis than in
lockdowns and the continued benefit of restructuring and tight
2019. On a pro-forma basis, Adjusted operating profit was 3%
control of ongoing costs.
lower at CER on a turnover decrease of 2% at CER. The
Adjusted pro-forma operating margin of 26.1% was 0.4 Vaccines operating profit was £2,713 million, down 9% AER,
percentage points lower on a CER basis than in 2019. 6% CER on a turnover decrease of 1% CER. The operating
margin of 38.9% was 2.6 percentage points lower at AER than
in 2019 and 1.9 percentage points lower on a CER basis. This
was primarily driven by the negative operating leverage from
the COVID-19 related sales decline and investment behind
key brands.
GSK Annual Report 2020 61Group financial review continued
Financial performance continued
Consumer Healthcare operating profit was £2,213 million, up Profit before tax
18% AER, 22% CER on a turnover increase of 14% CER. On a Taking account of net finance costs and the share of profits of
pro-forma basis, operating profit was £2,213 million, 1% CER associates, profit before taxation was £6,968 million compared
lower on a turnover decrease of 2% CER. The operating margin with £6,221 million in 2019.
of 22.1% was 1.2 percentage points higher at AER and 1.5
percentage points higher on a CER basis than in 2019. The Taxation
pro-forma operating margin of 22.1% was 0.3 percentage
points higher on a CER basis. The higher margin was driven by 2020 2019
£m £m
higher than normal sales growth in Q1 2020 due to COVID-19
UK current year charge 30 149
and synergy delivery from the Pfizer integration. This was
Rest of world current year charge 1,177 1,407
partially offset by the impact of divestments and increased
Charge/(credit) in respect of prior periods 66 (420)
targeted promotional investment.
Total current taxation 1,273 1,136
Net finance costs Total deferred taxation (693) (183)
2020 2019 Taxation on total profits 580 953
Finance income £m £m
The charge of £580 million represented an effective tax rate on
Interest and other income 39 79
Total results of 8.3% (2019 – 15.3%) and reflected the different
Fair value movements 5 19
tax effects of the various Adjusting items, including the disposal of
44 98
Horlicks and other Consumer Healthcare brands to Unilever and
subsequent disposal of shares received in Hindustan Unilever. Tax
Finance expense
on Adjusted profit amounted to £1,295 million and represented an
Interest expense (822) (840)
effective Adjusted tax rate of 16.0% (2019 – 16.0%).
Unwinding of discounts on provisions (3) (8)
Remeasurements and fair value movements (4) (1) Issues related to taxation are described in Note 14 to the
Finance expense on lease liabilities (40) (39) financial statements, ‘Taxation’. The Group continues to believe
Other finance expense (23) (24) it has made adequate provision for the liabilities likely to arise
(892) (912) from periods which are open and not yet agreed by tax
authorities. The ultimate liability for such matters may vary from
Total net finance costs were £848 million compared with
the amounts provided and is dependent upon the outcome of
£814 million in 2019. Adjusted net finance costs were
agreements with relevant tax authorities.
£844 million compared with £810 million in 2019. The increase
reflects lower interest income on overseas cash post-closing of Non-controlling interests
the divestment of Horlicks and other Consumer Healthcare The allocation of Total earnings to non-controlling interests
nutrition products in India and a number of other countries, a amounted to £639 million (2019 – £623 million). The increase was
premium paid on early repayment and refinancing of bond debt primarily due to an increased allocation of Consumer Healthcare
in Q4 2020 and a fair value gain on interest rate swaps in the profits of £374 million (2019 – £70 million) following the
2019 comparator, partly offset by reduced interest expense completion of the new Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture with
from lower debt levels and refinancing at lower rates. Pfizer on 31 July 2019, and which included the unwind of the fair
value uplift on acquired inventory and major restructuring costs.
Share of after-tax profits of associates and joint ventures
This was partly offset by a reduced allocation of ViiV Healthcare
The share of after-tax profits of associates was £33 million
profits of £223 million (2019 – £482 million), including increased
(2019 – £74 million). 2019 included a one-off adjustment of
charges for re-measurement of contingent consideration liabilities.
£51 million to reflect GSK’s share of increased after tax profits
of Innoviva, primarily as a result of a non-recurring income tax The allocation of Adjusted earnings to non-controlling interests
benefit. amounted to £1,031 million (2019 – £787 million). The increase in
allocation primarily reflected an increased allocation of Consumer
Healthcare profits of £515 million (2019 – £204 million) following
the completion of the new Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture
with Pfizer on 31 July 2019 partly offset by a reduced allocation
of ViiV Healthcare profits of £474 million (2019 – £512 million),
and lower net profits in some of the Group’s other entities with
non-controlling interests, primarily Consumer Healthcare India
following the Horlicks and other Consumer brands disposal.
62 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Group financial review continued
Financial performance continued
Earnings per share Outlook
Total earnings per share (EPS) was 115.5p, compared with 93.9p We delivered on our strategic priorities in 2020. In 2021, as
in 2019. The increase in EPS primarily reflected the net profit on planned we will continue to increase investment in our pipeline,
disposal of Horlicks and other Consumer Healthcare brands as build on our top-line momentum for key growth drivers and largely
well as increased income from asset disposals, partly offset by complete readiness for separation. Assuming healthcare systems
higher re-measurement charges on the contingent consideration and consumer trends approach normality in the second half of the
liabilities, higher major restructuring charges and a one-off benefit year, we expect Pharmaceuticals revenue to grow flat to low-single
in 2019 from increased share of after-tax profits of the associate digits and Consumer Healthcare revenue to grow low to
Innoviva. mid-single digits excluding brands divested/under review with
above market growth. For our Vaccines business, we now
Adjusted EPS was 115.9p compared with 123.9p in 2019,
anticipate further disruption during the first half of the year, given
down 6% AER, 4% CER, on a 2% CER increase in Adjusted
governments’ prioritisation of COVID-19 vaccination programmes
operating profit.
and the resurgence in late 2020 of the pandemic. This is expected
The reduction primarily resulted from a higher non-controlling to impact adult and adolescent immunisations, including Shingrix,
interest allocation of Consumer Healthcare profits and reduced notably in the US. Despite this short-term impact we remain very
share of after-tax profits of associates resulting from a non- confident in demand for these products, and expect strong
recurring income tax benefit in Innoviva. recovery and contribution to growth from Shingrix in the second
half of the year. We expect Vaccines revenue for 2021 to grow flat
Dividends
to low-single digits. Reflecting these factors, our guidance range
The Board declared four interim dividends resulting in a total
for 2021 is a decline of mid to high-single digit per cent Adjusted
dividend for the year of 80 pence, in line with the dividend declared
EPS at CER.
for 2019. See Note 16 to the financial statements, ‘Dividends’.
Our guidance does not include the impact of the intended change
Dividend policy
in the UK corporation tax rate from 19% to 25% effective from
GSK recognises the importance of dividends to shareholders
1 April 2023 which was announced on 3 March 2021. Please see
and aims to distribute regular dividend payments that will be
Note 47, ‘Post balance sheet events’ on page 237.
determined primarily with reference to the free cash flow
All expectations, guidance and targets regarding future
generated by the business after funding the investment
performance and dividend payments should be read together with
necessary to support the Group’s future growth.
the ‘Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements’
The Board currently intends to maintain the dividend for 2021
and ‘Assumptions related to 2021 guidance’ on the inside back
at the current level of 80p per share, subject to any material
cover.
change in the external environment or performance expectations.
At our Biopharma Investor Update in June we plan to set out in
detail the growth prospects and financial outlook for the new
Biopharma company over the medium term, including a detailed
review of the pipeline we have been building over recent years.
Alongside these we will provide details of a new distribution
policy which reflects the optimised capital structure and
investment priorities focused on delivering sustainable long-term
shareholder value. We anticipate that this new policy will deliver
competitive and attractive returns informed by appropriate
earnings pay-out ratios through the investment cycle well covered
by Free Cash Flow and, importantly, expected growth potential.
We expect that aggregate distributions for GSK will be lower
than at present. This new policy will be implemented for dividends
paid in respect of 2022.
GSK Annual Report 2020 63Group financial review continued
Adjusting items
Divestments,
Intangible Intangible significant
Adjusted results reconciliation Total asset asset Major Transaction- legal and Separation Adjusted
results amortisation impairment restructuring related other items costs results
31 December 2020 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 34,099 34,099
Cost of sales (11,704) 699 31 667 116 (10,191)
Gross profit 22,395 699 31 667 116 23,908
Selling, general and administration (11,456) 1 18 659 (23) 16 68 (10,717)
Research and development (5,098) 75 214 206 (4,603)
Royalty income 318 318
Other operating (expense)/income 1,624 1,215 (2,839) –
Operating profit 7,783 775 263 1,532 1,308 (2,823) 68 8,906
Net finance costs (848) 2 2 (844)
Share of after-tax profits of associates and joint ventures 33 33
Profit before taxation 6,968 775 263 1,534 1,308 (2,821) 68 8,095
Taxation (580) (150) (47) (292) (229) 17 (14) (1,295)
Tax rate 8.3% 16.0%
Profit after taxation 6,388 625 216 1,242 1,079 (2,804) 54 6,800
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 639 392 1,031
Profit attributable to shareholders 5,749 625 216 1,242 687 (2,804) 54 5,769
Earnings per share 115.5p 12.6p 4.4p 25.0p 13.8p (56.5)p 1.1p 115.9p
Weighted average number of shares (millions) 4,976 4,976
Divestments,
Intangible Intangible significant
Adjusted results reconciliation Total asset asset Major Transaction- legal and Adjusted
results amortisation impairment restructuring related other items results
31 December 2019 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 33,754 33,754
Cost of sales (11,863) 713 30 658 383 (10,079)
Gross profit 21,891 713 30 658 383 23,675
Selling, general and administration (11,402) 4 332 104 247 (10,715)
Research and development (4,568) 64 49 114 2 (4,339)
Royalty income 351 351
Other operating (expense)/income 689 1 (142) (548) –
Operating profit 6,961 777 83 1,105 345 (299) 8,972
Net finance costs (814) 5 (1) (810)
Share of after-tax profits of associates and joint ventures 74 74
Profit before taxation 6,221 777 83 1,110 345 (300) 8,236
Taxation (953) (156) (17) (208) (124) 140 (1,318)
Tax rate 15.3% 16.0%
Profit after taxation 5,268 621 66 902 221 (160) 6,918
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 623 164 787
Profit attributable to shareholders 4,645 621 66 902 57 (160) 6,131
Earnings per share 93.9p 12.6p 1.3p 18.2p 1.2p (3.3)p 123.9p
Weighted average number of shares (millions) 4,947 4,947
64 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Group financial review continued
Adjusting items continued
Major restructuring and integration Total cash payments made in 2020 were £737 million (2019
Within the Pharmaceuticals sector, the highly regulated – £645 million), £115 million for the existing Combined
manufacturing operations and supply chains and long life restructuring and integration programme (2019 – £316 million),
cycle of the business mean that restructuring programmes, £179 million (2019 – £164 million) under the 2018 major
particularly those that involve the rationalisation or closure of restructuring programme including the settlement of certain
manufacturing or R&D sites are likely to take several years charges accrued in previous quarters, a further £291 million
to complete. (2019 – £165 million) relating to the Consumer Healthcare Joint
Venture integration programme and £152 million relating to the
Major restructuring costs are those related to specific
Separation Preparation restructuring programme.
Board-approved Major restructuring programmes and are
excluded from Adjusted results. Major restructuring The analysis of Major restructuring charges by business was as
programmes, including integration costs following material follows:
acquisitions, are those that are structural and are of a significant
2020 2019
scale where the costs of individual or related projects exceed
£m £m
£25 million. Other ordinary course smaller-scale restructuring Pharmaceuticals 671 651
costs are retained within Total and Adjusted results. Vaccines 214 58
Total Major restructuring charges incurred in 2020 were Consumer Healthcare 374 321
£1,532 million (2019 – £1,105 million), analysed as follows: 1,259 1,030
Corporate and central functions 273 75
2020 2019
Non- Non- Total Major restructuring charges 1,532 1,105
Cash cash Total Cash cash Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m The analysis of Major restructuring charges by income
2018 major statement line was as follows:
restructuring
programme 2020 2019
(incl. Tesaro) 105 210 315 227 572 799 £m £m
Cost of sales 667 658
Consumer
Selling, general and administration 659 332
Healthcare Joint
Venture integration Research and development 206 114
programme 298 28 326 248 4 252 Other operating income/(expense) – 1
Separation Total Major restructuring charges 1,532 1,105
Preparation
restructuring The benefit in the year from the 2018 major restructuring
programme 625 216 841 – – – programme was £0.1 billion and the benefit from the Consumer
Combined Healthcare Joint Venture integration was £0.2 billion and the
restructuring benefit from the Separation Preparation restructuring
and integration programme was £0.1 billion.
programme 39 11 50 10 44 54
1,067 465 1,532 485 620 1,105 The 2018 major restructuring programme, including Tesaro,
is expected to cost £1.75 billion over the period to 2021, with
Cash charges of £625 million under the Separation Preparation cash costs of £0.85 billion and non-cash costs of £0.9 billion,
programme primarily arose from restructuring of Vaccines and is expected to deliver annual savings of around
manufacturing and R&D functions as part of building the One £450 million by 2021 (at 2019 rates). These savings are
Development organisation for Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines as intended to be fully reinvested to help fund targeted increases
well as restructuring of commercial pharmaceuticals and some in R&D and commercial support of new products.
administrative functions. Non-cash charges of £216 million
The completion of the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture with
were related to write-down of assets in sites in the
Pfizer is expected to realise substantial cost synergies,
Pharmaceuticals Supply Chain.
generating total annual cost savings of £0.5 billion by 2022 for
Cash charges of £298 million under the Consumer Healthcare expected cash costs of £0.7 billion and non-cash charges now
Joint Venture programme primarily related to severance and expected to be £0.1 billion, plus additional capital expenditure
integration costs. The commercial integration of Consumer of £0.2 billion. Up to 25% of the cost savings are intended to
Healthcare is now largely completed and the manufacturing be reinvested in the business to support innovation and other
integration is well underway. growth opportunities.
The 2018 major restructuring programme incurred cash
charges of £105 million in relation to severance costs for
restructuring of the manufacturing organisation, R&D and some
administrative functions as well as the integration of Tesaro and
non-cash charges of £210 million for write-downs on disposal
of sites.
GSK Annual Report 2020 65Group financial review continued
Adjusting items continued
The Group initiated in Q1 2020 a two-year Separation The £1,114 million charge relating to the contingent consideration
Preparation programme to prepare for the separation of GSK for the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture represented
into two companies: New GSK, a biopharma company with an an increase in the valuation of the contingent consideration due to
R&D approach focused on science related to the immune Shionogi, as a result of a £408 million unwind of the discount and
system, the use of genetics and new technologies, and a new £706 million primarily from adjustments to sales forecasts as well
leader in consumer healthcare. as updated exchange rate assumptions. The £52 million credit
relating to the ViiV Healthcare put options and Pfizer preferential
The programme aims to:
dividends represented a decrease in the valuation of the put
– Drive a common approach to R&D with improved capital option as a result of adjustments to multiples and sales forecasts
allocation and updated exchange rate assumptions.
– Align and improve the capabilities and efficiency of global
The ViiV Healthcare contingent consideration liability is fair valued
support functions to support New GSK
under IFRS. The potential impact of the COVID-19 pandemic
– Further optimise the supply chain and product portfolio, remains uncertain and, at 31 December 2020, it has been
including the divestment of non-core assets. A strategic assumed that there will be no significant impact on the long-term
review of prescription dermatology is underway value of the liability. This position remains under review and the
– Prepare Consumer Healthcare to operate as a standalone amount of the liability will be updated in future quarters as further
company information on the impact of the pandemic becomes available.
An explanation of the accounting for the non-controlling interests
The programme continues to target delivery of £0.7 billion of
in ViiV Healthcare is set out on page 52.
annual savings by 2022 and £0.8 billion by 2023, with total
costs estimated at £2.4 billion, of which £1.6 billion is expected Divestments, significant legal charges and other items
to be cash costs. The proceeds of anticipated divestments are Divestments and other items included a gain in the year of
largely expected to cover the cash costs of the programme. £2,339 million arising from the net profit on disposal of the
Horlicks and other Consumer Healthcare brands of
Transaction-related adjustments
£2,815 million in Q2 2020, after reversal of £240 million of
Transaction-related adjustments resulted in a net charge of
embedded derivative gains on the value of the shares taken in
£1,308 million (2019 – £345 million). This included a net
prior years. This was partly offset by the related loss on sale of
£1,234 million accounting charge for the re-measurement of the
the shares in Hindustan Unilever in Q2 2020 of £476 million.
contingent consideration liabilities related to the acquisitions of
Divestments and other items also included milestone income
the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture and the former
and gains from a number of asset disposals and certain other
Novartis Vaccines business and the liabilities for the Pfizer put
Adjusting items. A charge of £7 million (2019 – £251 million)
option and Pfizer and Shionogi preferential dividends in ViiV
for significant legal matters included the settlement of existing
Healthcare.
matters as well as provisions for ongoing litigation. Significant
2020 2019 legal cash payments were £9 million (2019 – £294 million).
Charge/(credit) £m £m
Contingent consideration on former Shionogi-ViiV
Separation costs
Healthcare Joint Venture (including Shionogi
From Q2 2020, the Group has started to report additional costs
preferential dividends) 1,114 31
to prepare Consumer Healthcare for separation. These are
ViiV Healthcare put options and Pfizer preferential
dividends (52) (234) estimated at £600-£700 million, excluding transaction costs.
Contingent consideration on former Novartis
Vaccines business 172 76
Release of fair value uplift on acquired Pfizer
inventory 91 366
Other adjustments (17) 106
Total transaction-related charges 1,308 345
66 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Group financial review continued
Adjusting items continued
Pro-forma growth reconciliations
The tables below set out reconciliations between reported CER
growth rates and pro-forma CER growth rates and between
reported margin percentages and pro-forma margin percentages.
Adjustment to
include
January to
July 2019
results of
Pfizer
Reported consumer Pro-forma
growth rate healthcare growth rate
CER% business CER%
Group
Turnover 3 (5) (2)
Adjusted cost of sales 2 (5) (3)
Adjusted selling, general and
administration 2 (5) (3)
Adjusted research and development 7 (1) 6
Adjusted operating profit 2 (5) (3)
Consumer Healthcare
Turnover 14 (16) (2)
Oral health 6 – 6
Pain relief 27 (22) 5
Vitamins, minerals and supplements >100 >(100) 19
Respiratory health 4 (9) (5)
Digestive health and other 14 (15) (1)
Brands divested/under review (51) (2) (53)
Operating profit 22 (23) (1)
The 2019 pro-forma financial information used as the basis for
the pro-forma growth rates has been calculated as follows:
January to
July 2019
results of
GSK Pfizer
reported consumer Pro-forma
results healthcare results
2019 business 2019
£bn £bn £bn
Group
Turnover 33.8 1.5 35.3
Adjusted cost of sales (10.1) (0.5) (10.6)
Adjusted selling, general and
administration (10.7) (0.5) (11.2)
Adjusted research and development (4.3) (0.1) (4.4)
Adjusted operating profit 9.0 0.4 9.4
Consumer Healthcare
Turnover 9.0 1.5 10.5
Oral health 2.7 – 2.7
Pain relief 1.8 0.4 2.2
Vitamins, minerals and supplements 0.6 0.7 1.3
Respiratory health 1.2 0.1 1.3
Digestive health and other 1.6 0.3 1.9
Brands divested/under review 1.1 – 1.1
Operating profit 1.9 0.4 2.3
GSK Annual Report 2020 67Group financial review continued
Cash generation and conversion
A summary of the consolidated cash flow statement is set out Reconciliation of net cash inflow from operating activities
below. to free cash flow
A reconciliation of net cash inflow from operating activities,
2020 2019
£m £m which is the closest equivalent IFRS measure to free cash flow,
Net cash inflow from operating activities 8,441 8,020 is shown below.
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from investing activities 2,161 (5,354)
2020 2019
Net cash outflow from financing activities (10,132) (1,840) £m £m
Increase in cash and bank overdrafts 470 826 Net cash inflow from operating activities 8,441 8,020
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (1,226) (1,265)
Cash and bank overdrafts at beginning of year 4,831 4,087
Purchase of intangible assets (1,013) (898)
Increase in cash and bank overdrafts 470 826
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 68 95
Exchange adjustments (39) (82)
Proceeds from disposal of intangible assets 1,255 404
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year 5,262 4,831
Interest paid (864) (895)
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year comprise: Interest received 39 82
Cash and cash equivalents 6,292 4,707 Dividends from associates and joint ventures 31 7
Cash and cash equivalents reported in assets Contingent consideration paid (reported in
held for sale – 507 investing activities) (120) (113)
Overdrafts (1,030) (383)
Contribution from non-controlling interests 3 –
5,262 4,831
Distributions to non-controlling interests (1,208) (364)
Capital expenditure and financial investment Free cash flow 5,406 5,073
Cash payments for tangible and intangible fixed assets
Future cash flow
amounted to £2,239 million (2019 – £2,163 million) and
Over the long term, we expect that future cash generated from
disposals realised £1,582 million (2019 – £603 million).
operations will be sufficient to fund our operating and debt
Cash payments to acquire equity investments amounted
servicing costs, normal levels of capital expenditure, obligations
to £411 million (2019 – £258 million), primarily relating to
under existing licensing agreements, expenditure arising from
Vir Biotechnology and CureVac AG, and sales of equity
restructuring programmes and other routine outflows including
investments realised £3,269 million (2019 – £69 million)
tax, pension contributions and dividends, subject to the
mainly relating to the proceeds arising from the sale of the
‘Principal risks and uncertainties’ discussed on pages 261
shares in Hindustan Unilever acquired as a result of the
to 275. We may from time to time have additional demands for
disposal of the Horlicks and other Consumer Healthcare
finance, such as for acquisitions, including potentially acquiring
brands.
increased ownership interests in the ViiV Healthcare business
where minority shareholders hold put options. We have access
Free cash flow
to multiple sources of liquidity from short and long-term capital
Free cash flow is the amount of cash generated by the Group
markets and financial institutions for such needs, in addition to
after meeting our obligations for contingent consideration,
the cash flow from operations.
interest, tax and dividends paid to non-controlling interests,
and after capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment
Investment appraisal and capital allocation
and intangible assets.
We have a strong framework for capital allocation, including
2020 2019 a board to govern the allocation of capital between our
£m £m
businesses. We utilise a consistent cash return on invested
Free cash inflow 5,406 5,073
capital (CROIC) methodology to prioritise investment across
Total cash payments to Shionogi in relation to the ViiV the Group as a whole, so that we can more effectively compare
Healthcare contingent consideration liability in the year were the returns from each of the businesses as we allocate capital
£858 million (2019 – £865 million), of which £751 million between them. We also consider the impact on EPS and our
was recognised in cash flows from operating activities and credit profile where relevant.
£107 million was recognised in contingent consideration paid
within investing cash flows. These payments are deductible
for tax purposes.
68 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Group financial review continued
Financial position and resources
2020 2019 Property, plant and equipment
£m £m
Our business is science-based, technology-intensive and highly
Assets
regulated by governmental authorities. We allocate significant
Non-current assets
financial resources to the renewal and maintenance of our
Property, plant and equipment 10,176 10,348
property, plant and equipment to minimise risks of interruption to
Right of use assets 830 966
production and to ensure compliance with regulatory standards.
Goodwill 10,597 10,562
A number of our processes use hazardous materials.
Other intangible assets 29,824 30,955
Investments in associates and joint ventures 364 314 The total cost of our property, plant and equipment at
Other investments 3,060 1,837 31 December 2020 was £21,483 million, with a net book value
Deferred tax assets 4,287 4,096 of £10,176 million. Of this, land and buildings represented
Derivative financial instruments 5 103 £3,898 million, plant and equipment £4,414 million and
Other non-current assets 1,041 1,020 assets in construction £1,864 million. In 2020, we invested
Total non-current assets 60,184 60,201 £1,233 million in new property, plant and equipment. This was
mainly related to a large number of projects for the renewal,
Current assets improvement and expansion of facilities at various worldwide
Inventories 5,996 5,947 sites to support new product development and launches as well
Current tax recoverable 671 262 as to improve the efficiency of existing supply chains. Property
Trade and other receivables 6,952 7,202 is mainly held freehold. New investment is financed from our
Derivative financial instruments 152 421 liquid resources. At 31 December 2020, we had contractual
Liquid investments 78 79 commitments for future capital expenditure of £528 million.
Cash and cash equivalents 6,292 4,707 We believe that our property and plant facilities are adequate
Assets held for sale 106 873 for our current needs.
Total current assets 20,247 19,491
We observe stringent procedures and use specialist skills to
Total assets 80,431 79,692
manage environmental risks from our activities. Environmental
Liabilities issues, sometimes dating from operations now modified or
Current liabilities discontinued, are reported under ‘Environment’ on page 41
and in Note 46 to the financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’.
Short-term borrowings (3,725) (6,918)
Contingent consideration liabilities (765) (755)
Right of use assets
Trade and other payables (15,840) (14,939)
Right of use assets amounted to £830 million at 31 December
Derivative financial instruments (221) (188) 2020 compared with £966 million on 1 January 2020. The
Current tax payable (545) (629) decrease in the year reflected the impact of depreciation and
Short-term provisions (1,052) (621) disposals of £225 million and £84 million respectively, partly
Total current liabilities (22,148) (24,050) offset by additions of £187 million.
Non-current liabilities Goodwill
Long-term borrowings (23,425) (23,590) Goodwill increased to £10,597 million at 31 December 2020,
Corporation tax payable (176) (189) from £10,562 million.
Deferred tax liabilities (3,600) (3,810)
Pensions and other post-employment benefits (3,650) (3,457) Other intangible assets
Other provisions (707) (670) Other intangible assets include the cost of intangibles acquired
Derivative financial instruments (10) (1) from third parties and computer software. The net book value
of other intangible assets as at 31 December 2020 was
Contingent consideration liabilities (5,104) (4,724)
£29,824 million (2019 – £30,955 million). The decrease
Other non-current liabilities (803) (844)
primarily reflected amortisation and impairment losses, net of
Total non-current liabilities (37,475) (37,285)
reversals, in the year of £1,394 million.
Total liabilities (59,623) (61,335)
Net assets 20,808 18,357
Total equity 20,808 18,357
GSK Annual Report 2020 69Group financial review continued
Financial position and resources continued
Investments in associates and joint ventures Trade and other payables
We held investments in associates and joint ventures with At 31 December 2020, trade and other payables were
a carrying value at 31 December 2020 of £364 million £15,840 million compared with £14,939 million at
(2019 – £314 million). The market value at 31 December 2020 31 December 2019. The increase primarily reflected the impact
was £364 million (2019 – £396 million). The largest of these of higher customer return and rebate accruals. See Note 28 to
investments was in Innoviva Inc., which had a book value at the financial statements, ‘Trade and other payables’.
31 December 2020 of £291 million (2019 – £261 million)
Provisions
and a market value of £291 million. See Note 20 to the
We carried deferred tax provisions and other short-term and
financial statements, ‘Investments in associates and joint
non-current provisions of £5,359 million at 31 December 2020
ventures’.
(2019 – £5,101 million). Other provisions at the year-end
Other investments included £320 million (2019 – £198 million) related to legal and
We held other investments with a carrying value at other disputes and £860 million (2019 – £505 million) related
31 December 2020 of £3,060 million (2019 – £1,837 million). to Major restructuring programmes. Provision has been made
The highest value investments held at 31 December 2020 for legal and other disputes, indemnified disposal liabilities,
were in CureVac AG, which was acquired in the year and had employee related liabilities and the costs of the restructuring
a book value at 31 December 2020 of £887 million, Crispr programme to the extent that at the balance sheet date a legal or
Therapeutics, which had a book value of £361 million constructive obligation existed and could be reliably estimated.
(2019 – £149 million) and Lyell Immunopharma, Inc., which
Pensions and other post-employment benefits
had a book value at 31 December 2020 of £261 million
We account for pension and other post-employment
(2019 – £155 million). The other investments included equity
arrangements in accordance with IAS 19. The net deficits
stakes in companies with which we have research
were £2,104 million (2019 – £1,921 million) on pension
collaborations, and which provide access to biotechnology
arrangements and £1,363 million (2019 – £1,418 million) on
developments of potential interest and interests in companies
unfunded post-employment liabilities. See Note 30 to the
that arise from business divestments.
financial statements, ‘Pensions and other post-employment
Derivative financial instruments: assets benefits’.
We held current derivative financial assets at fair value of
Other non-current liabilities
£152 million (2019 – £421 million) and non-current derivative
Other non-current liabilities amounted to £803 million at
financial assets held at fair value of £5 million (2019 –
31 December 2020 (2019 – £844 million).
£103 million). The majority of these financial instruments related
to foreign exchange contracts both designated and not Contingent consideration liabilities
designated as accounting hedges. At 31 December 2019,
Contingent consideration amounted to £5,869 million at
£240 million of current derivative financial assets related to a
31 December 2020 (2019 – £5,479 million), of which
derivative embedded in the agreement to divest Horlicks and
£5,359 million (2019 – £5,103 million) represented the estimated
other nutritional brands to Unilever plc. See Note 40 for further
present value of amounts payable to Shionogi relating to ViiV
information.
Healthcare and £477 million (2019 – £339 million) represented
the estimated present value of contingent consideration payable
Inventories
to Novartis related to the Vaccines acquisition.
Inventory of £5,996 million increased from £5,947 million
in 2019. The liability due to Shionogi included £230 million in respect
of preferential dividends. The liability for preferential dividends
Trade and other receivables
due to Pfizer at 31 December 2020 was £1 million (2019 –
Trade and other receivables of £6,952 million decreased
£4 million). An explanation of the accounting for the non-
from £7,202 million in 2019.
controlling interests in ViiV Healthcare is set out on page 52.
Deferred tax assets Of the total contingent consideration payable (on a post-tax
Deferred tax assets amounted to £4,287 million basis) at 31 December 2020, £765 million (2019 – £755 million)
(2019 – £4,096 million) at 31 December 2020. is expected to be paid within one year. The consideration
payable is expected to be paid over a number of years. As
Derivative financial instruments: liabilities
a result, the total estimated liabilities are discounted to their
We held current and non-current derivative financial liabilities
present values, on a post-tax basis using post-tax discount rates.
at fair value of £231 million (2019 – £189 million). This primarily
related to foreign exchange contracts both designated and not The Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare contingent consideration liability
designated as accounting hedges. is discounted at 8.5% and the Novartis Vaccines contingent
consideration liability is discounted partly at 8% and partly
at 9%.
70 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Group financial review continued
Financial position and resources continued
Maturity profile of bond debt
£m equivalent
4,500
4,000
3,500
3,000
2,500
2,000
1,500
1,000
500
0
2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029 2030 2033 2034 2035 2038 2039 2042 2043 2045
GBP bonds EUR bonds USD bonds
Net debt Cash and liquid investments of £5.4 billion (2019 – £3.6 billion)
2020 2019 were held centrally at 31 December 2020.
£m £m
The analysis of cash and gross debt after the effects of hedging
Cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments 6,370 4,786
is as follows.
Cash, cash equivalents reported in assets
held for sale – 507 2020 2019
Borrowings – repayable within one year (3,725) (6,918) £m £m
Cash and liquid investments 6,370 5,293
Borrowings – repayable after one year (23,425) (23,590)
Gross debt – fixed1 (24,538) (25,064)
Net debt (20,780) (25,215)
– floating (2,612) (5,444)
At 31 December 2020, net debt was £20.8 billion, compared – non-interest bearing – –
with £25.2 billion at 31 December 2019, comprising gross debt Net debt (20,780) (25,215)
of £27.2 billion and cash and liquid investments of £6.4 billion.
1 Includes £1.45 billion equivalent of notes swapped from floating to fixed rates via interest
Net debt decreased due to the £3.3 billion proceeds from the rate swaps.
Horlicks and other Consumer brands disposal including shares Movements in net debt
in Hindustan Unilever of £2.7 billion and £0.6 billion of other
2020 2019
assets, plus £0.6 billion of other business and asset disposals £m £m
together with £5.4 billion free cash flow, partly offset by cash Net debt at beginning of year (25,215) (21,621)
divested of £0.5 billion, dividends paid to shareholders of Implementation of IFRS 16 – (1,303)
£4.0 billion and £0.4 billion in additional investments. Net debt at beginning of year, as adjusted (25,215) (22,924)
At 31 December 2020, GSK had short-term borrowings Increase in cash and bank overdrafts 470 826
(including overdrafts and lease liabilities) repayable within Increase/(decrease) in liquid investments 1 (1)
12 months of £3.7 billion with loans of £2.6 billion repayable Increase in long-term loans (3,298) (4,794)
in the subsequent year. Net repayment of short-term loans 7,305 1,065
Repayment of lease liabilities 227 214
At 31 December 2020, GSK’s cash and liquid investments
Debt of subsidiary undertakings acquired – (524)
were held as follows:
Exchange movements (135) 1,015
2020 2019
£m £m Other movements (135) (92)
Bank balances and deposits 3,000 2,565 Net debt at end of year (20,780) (25,215)
Bank balances and deposits reported in
assets held for sale – 507
US Treasury and Treasury repo only money
market funds 317 102
Liquidity funds 2,975 2,040
Cash and cash equivalents 6,292 5,214
Liquid investments – government securities 78 79
6,370 5,293
GSK Annual Report 2020 71Group financial review continued
Financial position and resources continued
Interest rate benchmark reform Total equity
‘Interest rate benchmark reform – Amendments to IFRS 9, At 31 December 2020, total equity had increased from
IAS 39 and IFRS 7’ was issued by the IASB in September £18,357 million at 31 December 2019 to £20,808 million.
2019. These amendments modify specific hedge accounting
A summary of the movements in equity is set out below.
requirements to allow hedge accounting to continue for affected
2020 2019
hedges during the period of uncertainty before the hedged £m £m
items or hedging instruments affected by the current interest Total equity at beginning of year 18,357 3,672
rate benchmarks are amended as a result of the ongoing Implementation of IFRS 16 – (93)
interest rate benchmark reforms.
Total equity at beginning of year, as adjusted 18,357 3,579
At 31 December 2020, the Group was not directly exposed Total comprehensive income for the year 7,358 3,701
to interest rate benchmark reform as it held no interest rate Dividends to shareholders (3,977) (3,953)
derivatives that referenced LIBOR and matured after the end Recognition of interest in Consumer Healthcare
of 2021 and all floating rate bonds were due to mature before Joint Venture – 14,969
the end of 2021. Ordinary shares issued 29 51
Changes in non-controlling interests (131) (10)
The Group has closely monitored the market and the output
from the various industry working groups managing the Share-based incentive plans 381 365
transition to new benchmark interest rates. This includes Tax on share-based incentive plans (4) 19
announcements made by LIBOR regulators, including the Contributions from non-controlling interests 3 –
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and the US Commodity Distributions to non-controlling interests (1,208) (364)
Futures Trading Commission, regarding the transition away Total equity at end of year 20,808 18,357
from LIBOR (including GBP LIBOR, USD LIBOR and
Share purchases
EURIBOR) to the Sterling Overnight Index Average Rate
At 31 December 2020, GSK held 355.2 million shares as
(SONIA), the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR),
Treasury shares (2019 – 393.5 million shares), at a cost of
and the Euro Short-Term Rate (€STR) respectively. The FCA
£4,969 million (2019 – £5,505 million), which has been
has made it clear that, at the end of 2021, it will no longer
deducted from retained earnings.
seek to persuade, or compel, banks to submit to LIBOR.
The only exception to this is USD LIBOR, where the No ordinary shares were repurchased in the period 1 January
Intercontinental Exchange (ICE) Benchmark Administration 2020 to 3 March 2021 and the company does not expect
(IBA), the FCA-regulated and authorised administrator of to make any ordinary share repurchases in the remainder
LIBOR, has announced that it will consult on its intention to of 2021.
cease USD LIBOR. IBA intends that, subject to confirmation
In 2020, 38.3 million Treasury shares were transferred to the
following its consultation, one week and two month USD
Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) Trusts. Shares are
LIBOR settings will cease at the end of 2021, and that the
held by the Trusts to satisfy future exercises of options and
USD LIBOR panel will cease at the end of June 2023.
awards under the Group share option and award schemes.
The Group is undertaking an interest rate benchmark transition A proportion of the shares held by the Trusts are in respect
programme to identify potential exposures within the business of awards where the rules of the scheme require us to satisfy
and deliver a smooth transition to appropriate alternative exercises through market purchases rather than the issue of
benchmark rates. new shares. The shares held by the Trusts are matched to
options and awards granted.
At 31 December 2020, the ESOP Trusts held 49.0 million
(2019 – 36.4 million) GSK shares against the future exercise
of share options and share awards. The carrying value of
£195 million (2019 – £135 million) has been deducted from
other reserves. The market value of these shares was
£657 million (2019 – £647 million).
72 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Group financial review continued
Financial position and resources continued
Contractual obligations and commitments In 2018, we reached an agreement with the trustees of the
Financial commitments are summarised in Note 35 to the UK pension schemes to make additional contributions, to
financial statements, ‘Commitments’. assist in eliminating the pension deficit identified as part of
the 31 December 2017 actuarial funding valuation. The table
The following table sets out our contractual obligations and
includes this commitment but excludes the normal ongoing
commitments at 31 December 2020 as they fall due for
annual funding requirement in the UK of approximately
payment.
£130 million. For further information on pension obligations,
Total Under 1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs+ see Note 30 to the financial statements, ‘Pensions and
£m £m £m £m £m
other post-employment benefits’.
Loans 26,191 3,493 6,644 3,039 13,015
Interest on loans 8,309 725 1,307 1,115 5,162 Contingent liabilities
Lease obligations 1,117 230 333 182 372 Other contingent liabilities are set out in Note 34 to the financial
Future finance charges 180 34 50 33 63 statements, ‘Contingent liabilities’.
Intangible assets 12,307 354 1,337 2,031 8,585
The following table sets out contingent liabilities, comprising
Property, plant & equipment 528 403 124 1 – discounted bills, performance guarantees, letters of credit and
Investments 153 40 58 55 – other items arising in the normal course of business, and when
Purchase commitments 746 648 90 2 6 they are expected to expire.
Pensions 88 44 44 – –
Total 49,619 5,971 9,987 6,458 27,203 Total Under 1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs+
£m £m £m £m £m
Commitments in respect of loans and future interest payable Guarantees 34 21 4 9 –
on loans are disclosed before taking into account the effect of Other contingent liabilities 104 14 21 17 52
derivatives. Total 138 35 25 26 52
We have entered into a number of research collaborations to
In the normal course of business, we have provided various
develop new compounds with other pharmaceutical companies.
indemnification guarantees in respect of business disposals
The terms of these arrangements can include upfront fees,
in which legal and other disputes have subsequently arisen. A
equity investments, loans and commitments to fund specified
provision is made where an outflow of resources is considered
levels of research. In addition, we will often agree to make
probable and a reliable estimate can be made of the likely
further payments if future ‘milestones’ are achieved.
outcome of the dispute and this is included in Note 31 to
As some of these agreements relate to compounds in the early the financial statements, ‘Other provisions’.
stages of development, the potential obligation to make
We provide for the outcome of tax, legal and other disputes
milestone payments will continue for a number of years if the
when an outflow of resources is considered probable and a
compounds move successfully through the development
reliable estimate of the outflow may be made. At 31 December
process. Generally, the closer the product is to marketing
2020, other than for those disputes where provision has been
approval, the greater the probability of success. The amounts
made, it was not possible to make a reliable estimate of the
shown above within intangible assets represent the maximum
potential outflow of funds that might be required to settle
that would be paid if all milestones were achieved, and include
disputes where the possibility of there being an outflow was
£4.5 billion which relates to externalised projects in the
more than remote.
discovery portfolio. There was a decrease in the commitments
The ultimate liability for such matters may vary significantly
in 2020 as a result of a reduction in outstanding loan
from the amounts provided and is dependent upon negotiations
commitments.
with the relevant tax authorities and the outcome of litigation
proceedings, where relevant. This is discussed further in
‘Principal risks and uncertainties’ on pages 261 to 275 and
Note 46 to the financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’.
GSK Annual Report 2020 73Group financial review continued
Treasury policies
We report in Sterling and pay dividends out of Sterling cash Interest rate risk management
flows. The role of Treasury is to monitor and manage the GSK’s objective is to minimise the effective net interest cost
Group’s external and internal funding requirements and financial and to balance the mix of debt at fixed and floating interest rates
risks in support of our strategic objectives. GSK operates on over time. The policy on interest rate risk management limits the
a global basis, primarily through subsidiary companies, and net amount of floating rate debt to a specific cap, reviewed and
we manage our capital to ensure that our subsidiaries are able agreed no less than annually by the Board.
to operate as going concerns and to optimise returns to
Foreign exchange risk management
shareholders through an appropriate balance of debt and
Our objective is to minimise the exposure of overseas
equity. Treasury activities are governed by policies approved
operating subsidiaries to transaction risk by matching local
annually by the Board of Directors, and most recently on
currency income with local currency costs where possible.
15 October 2020. A Treasury Management Group (TMG)
Foreign currency transaction exposures arising on external
meeting, chaired by our Chief Financial Officer, takes place
and internal trade flows are selectively hedged. GSK’s internal
on a regular basis to review Treasury activities. Its members
trading transactions are matched centrally and we manage
receive management information relating to these activities.
inter-company payment terms to reduce foreign currency risk.
Treasury operations Where possible, we manage the cash surpluses or borrowing
The objective of GSK’s Treasury activities is to minimise the requirements of subsidiary companies centrally using forward
post-tax net cost of financial operations and reduce its volatility contracts to hedge future repayments back into the originating
in order to benefit earnings and cash flows. GSK uses a variety currency.
of financial instruments to finance its operations and derivative
In order to reduce foreign currency translation exposure,
financial instruments to manage market risks from these
we seek to denominate borrowings in the currencies of
operations. Derivatives principally comprise foreign exchange
our principal assets and cash flows. These are primarily
forward contracts and swaps which are used to swap
denominated in US Dollars, Euros and Sterling. Borrowings
borrowings and liquid assets into currencies required for
can be swapped into other currencies as required.
Group purposes, as well as interest rate swaps which are
used to manage exposure to financial risks from changes in Borrowings denominated in, or swapped into, foreign
interest rates. currencies that match investments in overseas Group assets
may be treated as a hedge against the relevant assets. Forward
Derivatives are used exclusively for hedging purposes in relation
contracts in major currencies are also used to reduce exposure
to underlying business activities and not as trading or
to the Group’s investment in overseas Group assets. The TMG
speculative instruments.
reviews the ratio of borrowings to assets for major currencies
Capital management regularly.
GSK’s financial strategy, implemented through the Group’s
Counterparty risk management
financial architecture, supports GSK’s strategic priorities and
We set global counterparty limits for each of our banking and
is regularly reviewed by the Board. We manage the capital
investment counterparties based on long-term credit ratings
structure of the Group through an appropriate mix of debt and
from Moody’s and Standard and Poor’s. Usage of these limits is
equity. We continue to manage our financial policies to a credit
actively monitored and any breach of these limits would be
profile that particularly targets short-term credit ratings of A-1
reported to the CFO immediately.
and P-1 while maintaining single A long-term ratings consistent
with those targets. In addition, relationship banks and their credit ratings are
reviewed regularly so that, when changes in ratings occur,
GSK’s long-term credit rating with Standard and Poor’s is A
changes can be made to investment levels or to authority limits
(stable outlook) and with Moody’s Investor Services (‘Moody’s’)
as appropriate. All banking counterparty limits are reviewed at
is A2 (negative outlook). Our short-term credit ratings are A-1
least annually.
and P-1 with Standard and Poor’s and Moody’s respectively.
Liquidity risk management
GSK’s policy is to borrow centrally in order to meet anticipated
funding requirements. Our cash flow forecasts and funding
requirements are monitored by the TMG on a regular basis.
Our strategy is to diversify liquidity sources using a range of
facilities and to maintain broad access to financial markets.
Each day, we sweep cash from a number of global subsidiaries
to central Treasury accounts for liquidity management purposes.
74 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Group financial review continued
Critical accounting policies
The Group consolidated financial statements are prepared in – The US Medicaid programme is a state-administered
accordance with IFRS, as adopted pursuant to Regulation (EC) programme providing assistance to certain poor and
No 1606/2002 as it applies in the European Union, and also vulnerable patients. In 1990, the Medicaid Drug Rebate
with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Program was established to reduce state and federal
Board (IASB), following the accounting policies approved by expenditure on prescription drugs. In 2010, the Patient
the Board and described in Note 2 to the financial statements, Protection and Affordable Care Act became law. We
‘Accounting principles and policies’. participate by providing rebates to states. Accruals for
Medicaid rebates are calculated based on the specific
We are required to make estimates and assumptions that
terms of the relevant regulations or the Patient Protection
affect the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses
and Affordable Care Act
reported in the financial statements. Actual amounts and
results could differ from those estimates. – Cash discounts are offered to customers to encourage
prompt payment. These are accrued for at the time of
The critical accounting policies relate to the following areas:
invoicing and adjusted subsequently to reflect actual
– Turnover experience
– Taxation (Note 14) – We record an accrual for estimated sales returns by applying
– Legal and other disputes (Notes 31 and 46) historical experience of customer returns to the amounts
invoiced, together with market-related information such as
– Contingent consideration (Note 32)
stock levels at wholesalers, anticipated price increases and
– Pensions and other post-employment benefits (Note 30).
competitor activity.
Information on the judgements and estimates made in these
A reconciliation of gross turnover to net turnover for the US
areas is given in Note 3 to the financial statements, ‘Key
Pharmaceuticals business is as follows:
accounting judgements and estimates’.
2020 2019 2018
Turnover Margin Margin Margin
£m % £m % £m %
In respect of the Turnover accounting policy, our largest
Gross turnover 20,035 100 18,471 100 18,227 100
business is US Pharmaceuticals, and the US market has
the most complex arrangements for rebates, discounts and Market-driven
segments (6,754) (34) (5,976) (32) (5,147) (28)
allowances. The following briefly describes the nature of the
Government
arrangements in existence in our US Pharmaceuticals business:
mandated and
– We have arrangements with certain indirect customers state programmes (5,205) (26) (4,264) (23) (4,594) (25)
whereby the customer is able to buy products from Cash discounts (388) (2) (356) (2) (361) (2)
wholesalers at reduced prices. A chargeback represents Customer returns (117) (1) (141) (1) (98) (1)
the difference between the invoice price to the wholesaler Prior year adjustments 402 2 247 1 98 1
and the indirect customer’s contractual discounted price. Other prior year items – – – – (59) –
Accruals for estimating chargebacks are calculated based Other items (522) (2) (579) (3) (613) (4)
on the terms of each agreement, historical experience and Total deductions (12,584) (63)(11,069) (60) (10,774) (59)
product growth rates Net turnover 7,451 37 7,402 40 7,453 41
– Customer rebates are offered to key managed care and
Market-driven segments consist primarily of managed care and
Group Purchasing Organisations and other direct and indirect
Medicare plans with which we negotiate contract pricing that is
customers. These arrangements require the customer to
honoured via rebates and chargebacks. Mandated segments
achieve certain performance targets relating to the value of
consist primarily of Medicaid and federal government
product purchased, formulary status or pre-determined market
programmes which receive government-mandated pricing via
shares relative to competitors. The accrual for customer
rebates and chargebacks.
rebates is estimated based on the specific terms in each
agreement, historical experience and product growth rates
GSK Annual Report 2020 75Group financial review continued
Critical accounting policies continued
The increased deductions in the government-mandated We may become involved in significant legal proceedings, in
and state programmes of the gross turnover to net turnover respect of which it is not possible to make a reliable estimate
reconciliation primarily reflected higher rebates and of the expected financial effect, if any, that could result from
chargebacks on respiratory products, and on Advair in ultimate resolution of the proceedings. In these cases,
particular. During the year Advair accounted for 6% of US appropriate disclosure about such cases would be included
Pharmaceuticals turnover and approximately 24% of the total in the Annual Report, but no provision would be made.
deduction for rebates and returns.
This position could change over time and, therefore, there can
The respiratory portfolio as a whole, including Established be no assurance that any losses that result from the outcome of
Respiratory products, accounted for approximately 79% of any legal proceedings will not exceed by a material amount the
the total deduction in the year. amount of the provisions reported in the Group’s financial
statements.
The balance sheet accruals for rebates, discounts, allowances
and returns for the US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines businesses Like many pharmaceutical companies, we are faced with
are managed on a combined basis. At 31 December 2020, the various complex product liability, anti-trust and patent litigation,
total accrual amounted to £4,686 million (2019 – £4,200 million). as well as investigations of our operations conducted by various
governmental regulatory agencies. Throughout the year, the
A monthly process is operated to monitor inventory levels at
General Counsel of the Group, as head of the Group’s legal
wholesalers for any abnormal movements. This process uses
function, and the Senior Vice President and Head of Global
gross sales volumes, prescription volumes based on third party
Litigation for the Group, who is responsible for all litigation and
data sources and information received from key wholesalers.
government investigations, routinely brief the Chief Executive
The aim of this is to maintain inventories at a consistent level
Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the Board of Directors
from year to year based on the pattern of consumption.
on the significant litigation pending against the Group and
On this basis, US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines inventory governmental investigations of the Group.
levels at wholesalers and in other distribution channels at
These meetings, as appropriate, detail the status of significant
31 December 2020 were estimated to amount to
litigation and government investigations and review matters
approximately four weeks of turnover. This calculation uses
such as the number of claims notified to us, information on
third party information, the accuracy of which cannot be totally
potential claims not yet notified, assessment of the validity of
verified, but is believed to be sufficiently reliable for this
claims, progress made in settling claims, recent settlement
purpose.
levels and potential reimbursement by insurers.
Legal and other disputes
The meetings also include an assessment of whether or not
In respect of the accounting policy for Legal and other disputes,
there is sufficient information available for us to be able to make
the following briefly describes the process by which we
a reliable estimate of the potential outcomes of the disputes.
determine the level of provision that is necessary.
Often, external counsel assisting us with various litigation
In accordance with the requirements of IAS 37, ‘Provisions, matters and investigations will also assist in the briefing of the
contingent liabilities and contingent assets’, we provide for Board and senior management. Following these discussions,
anticipated settlement costs where an outflow of resources is for those matters where it is possible to make a reliable estimate
considered probable and a reliable estimate may be made of of the amount of a provision, if any, that may be required, the
the likely outcome of the dispute and legal and other expenses level of provision for legal and other disputes is reviewed and
arising from claims against the Group. adjusted as appropriate. These matters are discussed further
in Note 46 to the financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’.
Strategic report
The Strategic report was approved by the Board of Directors on
8 March 2021
Iain Mackay
Chief Financial Officer
8 March 2021
76 GSK Annual Report 2020SSttrraatteeggiicc rreeppoorrtt
GGoovveerrnnaannccee aanndd rreemmuunneerraattiioonn
FFiinnaanncciiaall ssttaatteemmeennttss
IInnvveessttoorr iinnffoorrmmaattiioonn
Corporate
Governance
In this section
Chairman’s Governance statement 78
The Board 80
Corporate Executive Team 83
Board architecture 85
Board roles and responsibilities 86
Board activity and principal decisions 87
Our purpose, values and culture 90
The Board’s approach to engagement 91
Board performance 94
Board Committee information 96
Our Board Committee reports 97
Section 172 statement 108
Directors’ report 109
GGSSKK AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22002200 7777Chairman’s Governance statement
In last year’s Governance statement, I explained that our primary Education and focus on Science
objective for 2020 was to ensure there was clarity between the Given the critical importance of strengthening the pipeline,
Board and management on GSK’s execution of strategy and its the Board has benefitted from devoting a higher proportion of
operational priorities. We have aligned our long-term priorities its time in understanding the science behind our strategy and
of Innovation, Performance and Trust powered by culture testing its application. It is important that the Board has a
and agreed on the metrics to measure delivery against them. working understanding of the key strategic themes upon
The Board’s annual cycle of meetings ensures that all major which our R&D strategy is based. These themes have been
components of our strategy are reviewed over the course complemented by Board R&D science thematic deep dives.
of the year. Our focus was on the fundamentals of our strategy: human
genetics, the immune system and AI and ML, as well as to
The COVID-19 pandemic impacted and dominated all our
gain a deeper understanding of COVID-19 and our vaccines
lives for the majority of 2020. The Board was no different but
technology. These reviews were run by Dr Hal Barron, our
adapted well to operating virtually. We invested significant time
CSO, supported by our Science Committee & Scientific and
in assessing and responding to the impact of the pandemic.
Medical Experts. The Board also receives regular updates
Management and the Board established a framework to
from Hal on progress in further strengthening the pipeline,
consider three key areas: our People, Continuity and Solutions.
the evolution of our R&D organisation and its operations
With support from the Corporate Responsibility and the
and our incredibly talented scientists.
Science committees, the Board considered the impact of
COVID-19 on our organisation, initiatives, treatments and Governance architecture
solutions, and undertook a review of the appropriateness Being clear on the priorities of the Board has enabled the
of our Vaccines business and technology platform to ensure allocation of oversight responsibility for our Innovation,
that it would continue to be fully competitive in a post Performance and Trust priorities to the Committees. This
COVID-19 world. means that every meeting can be focused directly on those
issues that really matter to GSK.
Resilience and decision-making
The Board’s resilience was tested individually and as a team The benefits of this alignment between the Board and its
by COVID-19, with the imperative of remaining fast and agile in Committees at the start of 2020 became evident as the year
its decision-making. I have been deeply impressed with how progressed. In particular, changes to the remit of the Science
management and the Board stepped up to and embraced this and Corporate Responsibility committees and the
challenge. Of our six scheduled meetings only our January one establishment of a Transformation & Separation Committee
took place face to face. Since March, the Board and our enabled greater focus on oversight and challenge. Full details
Committee meetings were all virtual. In doing so, we, like the of each committee’s activities are set out later in this report,
rest of the organisation, had to adjust to the lack of physical but I would like to highlight below certain key areas of their work.
contact, including those crucial informal interactions. These help
Transformation & Separation Committee: This Committee
build relationships, trigger ideas and evolve thinking on complex
was established to ensure the Board could devote sufficient
topics. Charlie Bancroft joined the Board in May and has yet to
attention to the issues surrounding the creation of the
attend a physical meeting. His induction has so far taken place
Biopharma and Consumer Healthcare businesses. It reviews
entirely virtually.
decisions around physical separation and corporate finance
We have thought carefully as a Board on how we organise our such as listing locations. The Committee is also mindful of not
virtual meetings, engage and spend time together to build and just separating the cost base of two businesses, but creating
maintain high quality engagements and operate effectively. independent, competitively structured cost bases that are
I have been pleased to observe at close quarters how the efficient and fit for purpose. It therefore also oversees
Board’s commitment has fully aligned with the Executive: management’s restructuring programmes to ensure the desired
continuous communication, a sense of urgency, agility, and benefits are delivered. It is a remarkable achievement that,
desire to maintain speed of decision making has helped in notwithstanding COVID-19, all of the major programmes are
ensuring we can continue to support management in the timely on track.
execution of our strategic priorities.
78 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Corporate Responsibility Committee: This Committee is Board succession planning
central in guiding the company’s ESG agenda. It has reviewed I am very pleased that Lynn Elsenhans has agreed to stay for
and supported management’s more aggressive approach to a further year before stepping down from the Board at the
executing the E and S aspects of ESG. This has included 2022 AGM. This will help with continuity of leadership of the
reviewing and endorsing a new level of ambition on Corporate Responsibility Committee as we work to separation
environmental sustainability through setting new goals to and facilitate a smooth transition for her successor in the current
achieve a net zero impact on climate and net positive impact COVID-19 environment.
on nature by 2030. A review of inclusion and diversity
It is an honour to lead such a high-performing, collegiate and
included disclosing targets on workforce race and ethnicity
unified Board. The formal governance planning for separation
and re-basing our gender diversity targets.
will begin in the second half of 2021 and this will include
The Committee played a key role in guiding and overseeing building towards the creation of two new boards. As we enter
management’s response to COVID-19. It reviewed the this critical period, my intention is to maintain the continuity
implications of production at risk and scale up, partnering, and cohesion of the current Board which is highly focused on
geographic allocation, access and pricing. maximising value for you our shareholders up to, and beyond,
the point of separation.
I am now even more convinced that a strong commitment to
ESG is not just a business necessity but a long-term value Evaluation
driver for the company which benefits all our stakeholders. After a busy year, we were pleased that Jan Hall of No 4 was
We believe we are well placed in this regard for the future. able to complete a follow-up independent Board review to help
us further improve the Board’s effectiveness during 2021.
Science Committee: This Committee continues to support
The conclusions of this review are set out later in this report.
oversight of the scientific assumptions which drive our
distinctive R&D strategy evolved by the CSO for Biopharma During the year, the company continued to operate and
and as I explained earlier, guides and educates the Board comply with the requirements of the Financial Reporting
from a scientific perspective. Council's 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code. A copy of
the 2018 Code can be found on www.frc.org.uk.
During the year, the CSO and his team sought to build on the
foundations set in 2019 by continuing to strengthen our pipeline I look forward to connecting with you at our AGM this year in
organically, through collaborations and business development. May and updating you at that time on our progress. Thank you
The Committee’s review of the underlying scientific assumptions for your continued support.
and provision of scientific technical assurance on business
development transactions has been of critical support to the
Sir Jonathan Symonds
Board.
Chairman
8 March 2021
GSK Annual Report 2020 79The Board
Board composition Board diversity International experience
Composition Gender
Executive 25% Male 58% Global 92%
Non-Executive 75% Female 42% US 100%
Europe 92%
Tenure Non-Executive Ethnicity
EMAP 83%
Up to 3 years 22% Black, Asian and minority ethnic 8%
3-6 years 45% White 92%
6-9 years 22%
9-10 years 11% S ee more information on page 106
Sir Jonathan Symonds, CBE Skills and experience
Non-Executive Chairman Jon has extensive international financial, life sciences and governance experience.
Jon served as an Independent Non-Executive Director of HSBC Holdings plc from April 2014, and
Age: 62
as Deputy Group Chairman from August 2018, until his retirement from the Board in February 2020.
Nationality: British
He was previously Chairman of HSBC Bank plc, Chief Financial Officer of Novartis AG, Partner
Appointed: 1 September 2019
and Managing Director of Goldman Sachs, Chief Financial Officer of AstraZeneca plc, and a Partner
at KPMG. His governance experience includes roles as Non-Executive Director and Chair of the
N T Audit Committees of Diageo plc and QinetiQ Group plc and Non-Executive Chair of Proteus Digital
Health Inc.
Jon is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
External appointments
Non-Executive Director, Rubius Therapeutics, Inc; Non-Executive Director, Genomics England
Limited having previously served as its Chairman; Member, European Round Table for Industry.
Dame Emma Walmsley Skills and experience
Chief Executive Officer Prior to her appointment as GSK’s CEO, Emma was the CEO of GSK Consumer Healthcare, a Joint
Venture between GSK and Novartis, from its creation in March 2015. Emma joined GSK in 2010 from
Age: 51 L’Oreal, having worked for 17 years in a variety of roles in Paris, London, New York and Shanghai.
Nationality: British Emma was previously a Non-Executive Director of Diageo plc.
Appointed: 1 January 2017 Emma holds an MA in Classics and Modern Languages from Oxford University.
Chief Executive Officer from 1 April 2017
External appointments
Independent director, Microsoft, Inc; Honorary Fellow, Royal Society of Chemistry.
Iain Mackay Skills and experience
Chief Financial Officer Prior to joining GSK, Iain was Group Finance Director at HSBC Holdings plc, a position he held for
eight years. A chartered accountant, Iain has worked in Asia, the US and Europe and before HSBC
Age: 59 was at General Electric, Schlumberger Dowell and Price Waterhouse. Iain was previously a Trustee
Nationality: British of the British Heart Foundation and Chair of its Audit and Risk Committee.
Appointed: 14 January 2019 Iain holds an MA in Business Studies and Accounting and holds an Honorary Doctorate from
Chief Financial Officer from 1 April 2019 Aberdeen University in Scotland.
Iain is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
External appointments
Member, Court of the University of Aberdeen and Chair of its Remuneration Committee; Member,
The 100 Group and Chair of its Financial Reporting Committee.
Dr Hal Barron Skills and experience
Chief Scientific Officer Prior to joining GSK, Hal was President, R&D at Calico LLC (California Life Company), an Alphabet-
funded company that uses advanced technologies to increase understanding of lifespan biology.
and President, R&D
Prior to this, Hal was Executive Vice President, Head of Global Product Development, and Chief
Age: 58 Medical Officer of Roche, responsible for all the products in the combined portfolio of Roche and
Nationality: American Genentech. At Genentech, he was Senior Vice President of Development and Chief Medical Officer.
Appointed: 1 January 2018 Hal was a Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Science & Technology Committee at Juno
Chief Scientific Officer and President, Therapeutics, Inc until March 2018, when it was acquired by Celgene Corporation.
R&D from 1 April 2018 External appointments
Associate Adjunct Professor, Epidemiology & Biostatistics, University of California, San Francisco;
Non-Executive Board Director, GRAIL, Inc, an early cancer detection healthcare company; Advisory
Board Member, Verily Life Sciences LLC, a subsidiary of Alphabet, Inc.
Key Committee Chair N Nominations & Corporate Governance A Audit & Risk R Remuneration S Science C Corporate Responsibility
T Transformation & Separation
80 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
The Board continued
Charles Bancroft Skills and experience
Independent Non-Executive Director Charlie has a wealth of financial and management experience in global biopharma.
Charlie retired from a successful career at Bristol Myers Squibb (BMS) in March 2020 where
Age: 61
he held a number of leadership roles in commercial, strategy and finance. Beginning his career
Nationality: American at BMS in 1984, he held positions of increasing responsibility within the finance organisation and
Appointed: 1 May 2020 had commercial operational responsibility for Latin America, Middle East, Africa, Canada, Japan
and several Pacific Rim countries. He was appointed Chief Financial Officer in 2010, Chief Financial
A T Officer and Executive Vice President, Global Business Operations in 2016 and Executive Vice
President and Head of Integration and Strategy & Business Development in 2019. Charlie
successfully steered BMS through a period of strategic transformation, including its recent
$74bn acquisition of Celgene. Charlie also served as a member of the Board of Colgate-Palmolive
Company from 2017 until March 2020.
External appointments
Board Member, Kodiak Sciences Inc; Board Member, BioVector Inc; Advisory Board Member,
Drexel University’s LeBow College of Business.
The Board determined that Charlie has recent and relevant financial experience and agreed that
he has the appropriate qualifications and background to be an audit committee financial expert.
Manvinder Singh (Vindi) Banga Skills and experience
Senior Independent Non-Executive Vindi has many years of commercial experience and a track record of delivering outstanding
performance in highly competitive global consumer-focused businesses.
Director
Prior to joining GSK, Vindi spent 33 years at Unilever plc, where his last role (amongst several senior
Age: 66 positions) was President of the Global Foods, Home and Personal Care businesses, and a member
Nationality: British of the Unilever Executive Board. Vindi sat on the Prime Minister of India’s Council of Trade & Industry
Appointed: 1 September 2015 from 2004 to 2014 and was on the Board of Governors of the Indian Institute of Management (IIM),
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Ahmedabad. Vindi is also the recipient of the Padma Bhushan, one of India’s highest civilian honours.
from 5 May 2016 Vindi has been a Non-Executive Director of the Confederation of British Industry (CBI) and Thomson
Reuters Corp, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Mauser Group, Chairman of Kalle GmbH and
N A R T Senior Independent Director of Marks & Spencer Group plc.
External appointments
Partner, Clayton Dubilier & Rice; Director, High Ridge Brands Co; Non-Executive Director, The
Economist Newspaper Limited; Member, Holdingham International Advisory Board; Board Member,
International Chamber of Commerce United Kingdom; Member, Governing Board of the Indian
School of Business, Hyderabad; Member, Global Leadership Council of Saïd Business School,
Oxford; Member, Indo UK CEO Forum; Chair of the Board of Trustees, Marie Curie.
Dr Vivienne Cox, CBE Skills and experience
Independent Non-Executive Director Vivienne has wide experience of business gained in the energy, natural resources and publishing
sectors. She also has a deep understanding of regulatory organisations and government.
& Workforce Engagement Director
Vivienne worked for BP plc for 28 years, in Britain and Continental Europe, in posts including
Age: 61
Executive Vice President and Chief Executive of BP’s gas, power and renewable business and its
Nationality: British alternative energy unit. Vivienne was previously a Non-Executive Director of BG Group plc and Rio
Appointed: 1 July 2016 Tinto plc and the Lead Independent Director at the UK Government’s Department for International
Development. Vivienne was appointed Commander of the Order of the British Empire in the 2016
New Year Honours for services to the UK Economy and Sustainability.
R C T
External appointments
Senior Independent Director, Pearson plc; Chairman of the Supervisory Board, Vallourec; Non-
Executive Director, Stena AB; Advisory Board Member, African Leadership Institute; Vice President,
Energy Institute; Advisory Board Member, Montrose Associates; Chair, Rosalind Franklin Institute;
Vice Chair, Saïd Business School, Oxford and member of its Global Leadership Council; Patron,
Hospice of St Francis.
Lynn Elsenhans Skills and experience
Independent Non-Executive Director Lynn has a wealth of experience running a global business and significant knowledge of the global
markets in which GSK operates.
Age: 64
Lynn served as Chair, President and Chief Executive Officer of Sunoco Inc from 2009 to 2012. Prior
Nationality: American
to joining Sunoco in 2008 as President and Chief Executive Officer, Lynn worked for Royal Dutch
Appointed: 1 July 2012 Shell, which she joined in 1980, and where she held a number of senior roles, including Executive
Vice President, Global Manufacturing from 2005 to 2008. Lynn was previously a Non-Executive
C N A T Director of the First Tee of Greater Houston, Flowserve Corporation and the Texas Medical Center,
and a Trustee of the United Way of Greater Houston.
External appointments
Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Governance and Corporate Responsibility Committee,
Baker Hughes Company; Board Director and Chair of the Audit Committee, Saudi Aramco; Advisory
Board Member, Johns Hopkins University, Whiting School of Engineering; Member, Audit Committee
Leadership Network.
Key Committee Chair N Nominations & Corporate Governance A Audit & Risk R Remuneration S Science C Corporate Responsibility
T Transformation & Separation
GSK Annual Report 2020 81The Board continued
Dr Laurie Glimcher Skills and experience
Independent Non-Executive Director Laurie brings scientific and public health expertise to the Board’s deliberations, and a wealth of global,
publicly listed pharmaceutical business experience.
and Scientific & Medical Expert
In addition to a number of senior leadership positions held at both Harvard Medical School and Harvard
Age: 69
School of Public Health, Laurie has also served as Stephen and Suzanne Weiss Dean and Professor of
Nationality: American Medicine at Weill Cornell Medical College and as an Attending Physician at the New York Presbyterian
Appointed: 1 September 2017 Hospital/Weill Cornell Medical Center. Laurie stepped down from the Board of Bristol-Myers Squibb
(BMS) in 2017 after serving for 20 years on its Board. Laurie was previously a Non-Executive Director
A S of the Waters Corporation and co-founder and Chair of the Scientific Advisory Board of Quentis
Therapeutics Inc.
External appointments
Professor of Medicine, Harvard Medical School; CEO, President and Attending Physician, Dana-Farber
Cancer Institute.
Member, US National Academy of Sciences and the National Academy of Medicine; Member, Scientific
Steering Committee of the Parker Institute for Cancer Immunotherapy; Independent Director, Analog
Devices Inc; Member, Scientific Advisory Boards of Repare Therapeutics Inc, Abpro Therapeutics and
Kaleido Biosciences Inc.
Dr Jesse Goodman Skills and experience
Independent Non-Executive Director Jesse brings scientific and public health expertise to the Board’s deliberations. He has a wealth of
experience spanning science, medicine, vaccines, regulation and public health, and has a proven record in
and Scientific & Medical Expert
addressing pressing public health needs from both the academic and federal sectors.
Age: 69 Jesse previously served in senior leadership positions at the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA),
Nationality: American including most recently as the FDA’s Chief Scientist and previously as Deputy Commissioner for Science
Appointed: 1 January 2016 and Public Health and as Director of the Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research (CBER).
Jesse played a leadership role in developing the FDA’s Regulatory Science and Medical Countermeasures
S C Initiatives and has worked collaboratively with industry, academia, government and global public health and
regulatory partners to prepare for and respond to major public health threats, including emerging infectious
diseases, disasters and terrorism. He led the FDA’s response to West Nile Virus and to the 2009 H1N1
influenza pandemic and served on the Senior Leadership Team for the 2010 White House Medical
Countermeasure Review. Jesse was previously a member of both the Scientific Advisory Committee and
the Regulatory and Legal Working Group of the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI).
External appointments
Professor of Medicine and Attending Physician, Infectious Diseases, Georgetown University and directs the
Georgetown University Center on Medical Product Access, Safety and Stewardship (COMPASS); Board
Member (formerly President), United States Pharmacopeia (USP); Board Member, Scientific Counselors for
Infectious Diseases, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC); Board Member, Intellia
Therapeutics Inc; Member, US National Academy of Medicine.
Judy Lewent Skills and experience
Independent Non-Executive Director Judy has extensive knowledge of the global pharmaceutical industry and of corporate finance.
Judy joined Merck & Co in 1980 and served as its Chief Financial Officer from 1990 to 2007 when she
Age: 72
retired. Judy served as a Non-Executive Director of Dell Inc, Quaker Oats Company and Motorola Inc,
Nationality: American
and held Non-Executive Directorships at Purdue Pharma Inc, Napp Pharmaceutical Holdings Limited
Appointed: 1 April 2011 and certain Mundipharma International Limited companies until 2014.
A N R S T External appointments
Non-Executive Director, Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc; Non-Executive Director, Motorola Solutions Inc;
Trustee, Rockefeller Family Trust; Life member, Massachusetts Institute of Technology Corporation;
Member, American Academy of Arts and Sciences; Business Advisory Board Member, twoXAR;
Advisory Board Member, 4D Path Inc.
The Board determined that Judy has recent and relevant financial experience, and agreed that she has
the appropriate qualifications and background to be an audit committee financial expert.
Urs Rohner Skills and experience
Independent Non-Executive Director Urs has a broad business and legal background and extensive senior level experience at multinational
companies.
Age: 61
Urs has served as Chairman on a number of Boards, most recently for Credit Suisse. Prior to joining
Nationality: Swiss Credit Suisse in 2004, Urs served as Chairman of the Executive Board and CEO of ProSieben and
Appointed: 1 January 2015 ProSiebenSat.1 Media AG. This followed a number of years in private practice at major law firms in
Switzerland and the US, having been admitted to the bars of the canton of Zurich in Switzerland in 1986
R N T and the state of New York in the US in 1990.
External appointments
Chairman of the Board and of the Governance and Nominations Committee, Credit Suisse Group AG;
Chairman and member of the Board of Trustees, Credit Suisse Research Institute and Credit Suisse
Foundation; Vice-Chairman of the Governing Board, Swiss Bankers Association.
Key Committee Chair N Nominations & Corporate Governance A Audit & Risk R Remuneration S Science C Corporate Responsibility
T Transformation & Separation
82 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Corporate Executive Team
Skills and experience
Dr Hal Barron Hal joined GSK and the CET in 2018. See Board biographies on pages 80 to 82.
Chief Scientific Officer
and President, R&D
Roger Connor Roger joined the CET in 2013. He was appointed President of GSK Global Vaccines in 2018.
President, Global Vaccines In addition to leadership of the Vaccines business, he is responsible for GSK’s global procurement
organisation. Roger is also a member of the Gavi board, the Vaccine Alliance, where he
represents the International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers & Associations (IFPMA)
constituency. Previously, he was President, Global Manufacturing & Supply and, before that,
Vice President, Office of the CEO and Corporate Strategy. Roger joined GSK in 1998 from
AstraZeneca. Roger holds a degree in Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering from Queen’s
University, Belfast and a Master’s in Manufacturing Leadership from Cambridge University.
He is a Chartered Accountant.
Diana Conrad Diana was appointed Senior Vice President, Human Resources (HR) and member of the CET
Senior Vice President, in April 2019. She was previously Senior Vice President, HR, Pharmaceuticals R&D from 2016
where she played a key strategic role as leader of the R&D people and culture agenda to support
Human Resources (HR)
its transformation.
Diana joined GSK Canada’s HR team in 2000 where she held several roles of increasing
responsibility before becoming Senior Vice President, HR for Consumer Healthcare in 2009.
Prior to joining GSK, she held HR roles in companies including GE Capital, Gennum Corporation
and Zenon Environmental Laboratories. Diana has an Honours Bachelor of Arts from McMaster
University in Canada.
James Ford James joined the CET in 2018, when he was appointed Senior Vice President and General Counsel.
Senior Vice President He joined GSK in 1995 and has served as General Counsel Consumer Healthcare, General Counsel
Global Pharmaceuticals, Vice President of Corporate Legal and was Acting Head of Global Ethics
and General Counsel
and Compliance. Prior to GSK, James was a solicitor at Clifford Chance and DLA. He holds a law
degree from University of East Anglia and a Diploma in Competition Law from Kings College. He is
qualified as a solicitor in England and Wales and is an attorney at the New York State Bar. James is
based in London but has practised law and lived in the US, Singapore and Hong Kong. James is
co-chair of the US based Civil Justice Reform Group and a director of the European General
Counsel Association.
Nick Hirons Nick was appointed to the CET in 2014 as Senior Vice President, Global Ethics and Compliance,
Senior Vice President, responsible for compliance, risk management, corporate security and investigations. Nick joined
GSK in 1994 as an International Auditor. He was later Head of Audit & Assurance, where he
Global Ethics and Compliance
combined five audit functions into an independent team with a common risk-based methodology.
In 2013, Nick relocated to China to establish a governance model for our China business and
created a consistent approach to compliance. Nick is a fellow of the Chartered Institute of
Management Accountants.
Sally Jackson Sally joined the CET in March 2019 as Senior Vice President, Global Communications and CEO
Senior Vice President, Office. She is responsible for communications and government affairs for our three global
businesses and in the markets, as well as employee engagement across the Group. She is also the
Global Communications
CEO’s Chief of Staff. Prior to this Sally was Senior Vice President Office of the CEO and CFO and
and CEO Office she previously served as Head of Investor Relations. She joined GSK in 2001. Sally holds a degree
in Natural Sciences from the University of Cambridge.
Iain Mackay Iain joined GSK and the CET in 2019. See Board biographies on page pages 80 to 82.
Chief Financial Officer
Brian McNamara Brian joined the CET in 2016, when he was appointed CEO, GSK Consumer Healthcare.
CEO, GSK Consumer Healthcare He joined GSK in 2015 as Head of Europe and Americas for GSK Consumer Healthcare,
following the creation of the previous Joint Venture between GSK and Novartis. Previously,
he was head of Novartis’ OTC division. Brian began his career at Procter and Gamble.
Brian is a Board member of the Consumer Goods Forum and former Chairman and Board member
of the Global Self-Care Federation (GSCF). He earned an undergraduate degree in Electrical
Engineering from Union College in New York and an MBA in Finance from the University of
Cincinnati.
GSK Annual Report 2020 83Corporate Executive Team continued
Skills and experience
Luke Miels Luke joined GSK and the CET in 2017 as President, Global Pharmaceuticals, responsible for our
President, Global Pharmaceuticals commercial portfolio of medicines and vaccines. Luke also co-chairs the Portfolio Investment Board
with Hal.
He previously worked for AstraZeneca as Executive Vice President of their European business and,
prior to that, was Executive Vice President of Global Product and Portfolio Strategy, Global Medical
Affairs and Corporate Affairs. Before that, he was head of Asia for Roche based in Shanghai and
then Singapore. Prior to that he held roles of increasing seniority at Roche and Sanofi-Aventis in
the US, Europe and Asia.
Luke holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Biology from Flinders University in Adelaide and an
MBA from the Macquarie University, Sydney.
David Redfern David joined the CET as Chief Strategy Officer in 2008 and is responsible for corporate development
Chief Strategy Officer and strategic planning. Previously, he was Senior Vice President, Northern Europe with responsibility
for GSK’s pharmaceutical businesses in that region and, before that, he was Senior Vice President
for Central and Eastern Europe. He joined GSK in 1994. David was appointed Chairman of the
Board of ViiV Healthcare Limited in 2011 and a Non-Executive Director of the Aspen Pharmacare
Holdings Limited Board in 2015.
He has a Bachelor of Science degree from Bristol University and is a Chartered Accountant.
Regis Simard Regis joined the CET in 2018, when he became President, Pharmaceuticals Supply Chain.
President, Pharmaceuticals He is responsible for the manufacturing and supply of GSK’s pharmaceutical products. He also
leads Quality and Environment, Health, Safety and Sustainability at a corporate level. Regis joined
Supply Chain
GSK in 2005 as a Site Director in France, rising to become Senior Vice President of Global
Pharmaceuticals Manufacturing before his current role. Previously, he held senior positions at
Sony, Konica Minolta and Tyco Healthcare. He is a member of the Board for ViiV Healthcare.
He is a mechanical engineer and holds an MBA.
Karenann Terrell Karenann joined GSK and the CET in 2017 as Chief Digital & Technology Officer, responsible for
Chief Digital & Technology Officer our technology, digital, data and analytics strategy. Previously, she worked for Walmart as Chief
Information Officer. Prior to this, she was at Baxter International, where she was Chief Information
Officer, and before that Daimler Chrysler Corporation. Karenann began her career at General
Motors. In 2017 she became a Non-Executive Director of Pluralsight LLC.
She earned graduate and post-graduate degrees in Electrical Engineering from Kettering and
Purdue Universities respectively.
Phil Thomson Phil joined the CET in 2011. He was appointed President, Global Affairs in 2017, with responsibility
President, Global Affairs for the Group’s strategic approach to reputation, policy development, stakeholder engagement,
and Global Health. Previously, Phil was Senior Vice President, Communications and
Government Affairs.
Phil is Chairman of The Whitehall & Industry Group and a Board member of the China–Britain
Business Council.
He earned his degree in English, History and Russian Studies from Durham University.
Emma Walmsley Emma joined GSK in 2010 and the CET in 2011. See Board biographies on pages 80 to 82.
Chief Executive Officer
Deborah Waterhouse Deborah was appointed to the CET in January 2020. She became Chief Executive Officer
CEO, ViiV Healthcare of ViiV Healthcare in April 2017.
Deborah joined GSK in 1996 and was most recently the Senior Vice President of Primary Care
within the company’s US business, prior to which she led the US Vaccines business. She has
a strong track record of performance in both specialty and primary care. Deborah led the HIV
business in the UK before heading the HIV Centre of Excellence for Pharma Europe and held
international roles as General Manager of Australia and New Zealand and Senior Vice President
for Central and Eastern Europe.
84 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Board architecture
In 2020, we enhanced our corporate governance framework to further improve the effectiveness of the Board and the way it works,
and to support the Corporate Executive Team (CET) in delivering the transformation of our biopharma business and the planned
separation of Consumer Healthcare.
GSK’s internal control and risk management arrangements, described on pages 98 and 99 and 43 to 49, are an integral part of our
corporate governance framework.
Board
Chief Science Committee Corporate Responsibility Transformation &
Executive Committee Separation Committee
Officer
R ead more on page 104 R ead more on page 102 Read more on page 107
Corporate Nominations & Corporate Audit & Risk Committee Remuneration Committee
Executive Governance Committee
Team R ead more on page 105 R ead more on page 97 Read more on page 111
See page 96 for more about the roles and membership of each Board Committee.
Attendance at scheduled Board and Committee meetings during 2020
Nominations &
Corporate Corporate Transformation
Board Governance Audit & Risk Remuneration Science Responsibility & Separation
Total number of scheduled
meetings 6 5 6 5 3 4 4
Members Attended Attended Attended Attended Attended Attended Attended
Sir Jonathan Symonds 6 5 4
Emma Walmsley 6
Iain Mackay 6
Dr Hal Barron 6
Charles Bancroft* 4 (4) 4 (4) 4
Vindi Banga 6 5 6 5 4
Dr Vivienne Cox 6 5 4 3
Lynn Elsenhans 6 4 6 4 4
Dr Laurie Glimcher 6 6 3
Dr Jesse Goodman 6 3 4
Judy Lewent 6 5 6 5 3 4
Urs Rohner 6 5 5 4
Number of ad-hoc meetings 21 6 5 4
* For Charles Bancroft, who joined the Board and the Audit & Risk Committee on 1 May 2020, the numbers in brackets denote the number of meetings
he was eligible to attend.
GSK Annual Report 2020 85Board roles and responsibilities
Leadership Independent oversight and rigorous challenge
Chairman Non-Executive Directors
Jonathan Symonds
– Provide a strong independent element to the Board
– Leads and manages the business of the Board – Constructively support and challenge management
– Provides direction and focus and scrutinise their performance in meeting agreed
– Ensures clear structure for effective operation of the deliverables
Board and its Committees – Shape proposals on strategy and offer specialist advice
– Sets Board agenda and ensures sufficient time is to management
allocated to promote effective debate to support sound – Each has a letter of appointment setting out the terms
decision making and conditions of their directorship
– Ensures the Board receives accurate, timely and clear – Devote such time as is necessary to the proper
information performance of their duties
– Meets with each Non-Executive Director on an annual – Are expected to attend all meetings as required.
basis to discuss individual contributions and
Independence statement
performance, together with training and development
needs The Board considers all of its Non-Executive Directors
– Shares peer feedback that is provided as part of the who are identified on pages 81 and 82 to be independent
Board evaluation process after being assessed against the circumstances set out
– Meets regularly with all the Non-Executive Directors in Provision 10 of the 2018 Code. The reviews of the
independently of the Executive Directors continuing independence and commitment of both Judy
– Maintains a dialogue with shareholders on the Lewent, who has served on the Board for more than nine
governance of the company. years, and Lynn Elsenhans, who will after 1 July 2021
have served on the Board for more than nine years, are
The Chairman’s role description is available on GSK.com
described on pages 105 and 106.
Chief Executive Officer Senior Independent Director
Emma Walmsley Vindi Banga
– Responsible for the management of the Group and its – Acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and a trusted
three businesses intermediary for other Directors
– Develops the Group’s strategic direction for – Together with the Non-Executive Directors, leads the
consideration and approval by the Board annual review of the Chairman’s performance, taking
– Implements the agreed strategy into account views of the Executive Directors
– Is supported by members of the CET – Discusses the results of the Chairman’s effectiveness
– Maintains a continual and active dialogue with review with the Chairman
shareholders in respect of the company’s performance. – Leads the search and appointment process and makes
the recommendation to the Board for a new Chairman
The Chief Executive Officer’s role description is available on GSK.com
– Acts as an additional point of contact for shareholders,
maintains an understanding of the issues and concerns
of major shareholders through briefings from the
Company Secretary and Investor Relations.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director’s role description is
available on GSK.com
Company Secretary – Secretary to the Board and all Board Committees
Victoria Whyte – Supports the Board and Committee Chairs in annual agenda planning
– Ensures information is made available to Board members in a timely fashion
– Supports the Chairman in designing and delivering Board inductions
– Coordinates continuing business awareness and training requirements for the Non-Executive Directors
– Undertakes internal Board and Committee evaluations at the request of the Chairman
– Advises the Directors on Board practice and procedures, and corporate governance matters
– Chairs the Group’s Disclosure Committee
– Operates a Board-approved appointments policy that reflects the Board and external appointment
requirements of the 2018 Code
– Is a point of contact for shareholders on all corporate governance matters.
86 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Board activity and principal decisions
The Board discharges its responsibilities through an annual programme of meetings. Papers and presentations to the Board (and its
Committees) focus its oversight of performance and the driving of the company’s strategic direction. They are designed to either:
– Facilitate effective decision making, being categorised for ‘awareness’, ‘input’ and/or ‘decision’, or
– Aid the Board’s oversight of the business, being for ‘awareness’ only.
Items of business considered ‘mission critical’ to GSK’s long-term success are highlighted below.
Areas of focus in 2020 Long-term priorities link
Strategy The Board’s oversight of the execution of our strategy included:
MC– Receiving and discussing reports from Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare I P T C
MC– Holding a joint Board and CET strategy day to discuss plans for the two successor businesses up to and beyond I P T C
separation
– Receiving quarterly reports from the Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and Chief I P T C
Scientific Officer (CSO)
MC– Discussing and scrutinising ‘Future Ready’ plans for transforming Biopharma and Consumer Healthcare I P T
MC– Scrutinising and approving major collaborations with third parties to develop vaccines and treatments for COVID-19 I P T
MC– Approving business development transactions and strategic partnerships with third parties, including the mRNA I P T
technology collaboration with CureVac following a review of Vaccines technology
– Reviewing and approving divestment of non-strategic Consumer Healthcare brands I P T
Performance The Board’s focus on performance included:
– Evaluating the CEO’s 2019 performance, and setting 2020 objectives I P T C
MC– Setting the annual budget and plan, and the forward-looking three-year forecast P T
– Annual talent and succession plan review I P T C
– Scrutinising the Group’s financial performance P T
– Reviewing the risks and impacts of COVID-19 on the Group’s business and performance I P T C
– Reviewing the quarterly financial results, dividend proposal, earnings guidance, investor materials and results P T
announcements
– Confirming the viability and going concern statements P T
– Approval of the statutory accounts P T
Science The Board’s focus on science included:
– Briefings on the key elements of R&D strategy: I
MC– Review of R&D Science x Technology x Culture strategy I
MC– Receiving updates on the progress of key R&D assets, including the impact of COVID-19 I P
MC– Receiving and approving if appropriate, a number of business development transactions to further strengthen I
the pipeline
Governance The Board’s focus on governance included:
– Receiving reports from its Committees T
– Receiving reports from the external auditor P T
– Approving the appointment of a new Non-Executive Director, audit committee financial expert and successor I P T
Audit & Risk Committee Chair
– Establishing a new Committee to focus on Transformation & Separation T
– Approving the 2019 Annual Report and Form 20-F T
– Receiving reports on corporate governance and regulatory developments and the Company Secretary’s report T
– Considering conclusions and agreeing actions from the Board’s external evaluation P T
MC– Setting the Board’s 2020-2022 priorities I P T C
– Reviewing our modern slavery statement and gender pay gap positioning T
MC– Annual review of the Board’s Enterprise Risk Responsibility Framework and Enterprise-wide Risks T
Cultural – Receiving updates on cultural transformation progress I P T C
transformation
Our The Board’s consideration for stakeholder impacts included:
stakeholders
– Reviewing the Board’s governance architecture I P T C
– Considering reports from the Workforce Engagement Director I P T C
– Discussing reports on annual employee survey results I P T C
– Reviewing stakeholder perception research I P T C
Mission critical items MC Link to long-term priorities: I Innovation P Performance T Trust C Culture
GSK Annual Report 2020 87Board activity and principal decisions continued
Board members consider the interests of GSK’s key stakeholders and how their decisions could potentially affect them. Papers
considered by the Board and its Committees seek to highlight relevant stakeholder impacts of proposals under consideration –
whether positive or negative – in support of this duty and the decision-making process.
Selected examples of 2020’s principal decisions, and how the Board considered stakeholder perspectives, are set out below:
Stakeholder groups,
How Board/Committee and other section 172 Principal decision made by
Decisions regarded stakeholder interests duties considered our Board/Committees
Business development, The Science Committee and the Board Stakeholders: The Science Committee considered the
collaborations and deals reviewed several business development Patients, consumers, scientific merits of these business
(including COVID-19) opportunities and COVID-19 employees and investors development opportunities prior to the
collaborations. Those leading to Board’s review and approval
Other s172 duties:
concluded transactions included:
Our long-term results,
– A strategic collaboration with CureVac workforce and business
to access its mRNA platform capability relationships
to supplement GSK's SAM technology
following a review of Vaccines
technology
– A TB consortium collaboration to
develop a novel treatment for TB
– A partnership with IDEAYA
Biosciences in synthetic lethality, an
emerging field in precision medicine
oncology
– A collaboration with Vir Biotechnology,
to identify potential COVID-19
treatment options
– Partnerships with Sanofi, Medicago
and Clover for three potential
COVID-19 vaccines using different
technologies
These arrangements were considered in
the context of their potential to help GSK
deliver transformational medicines to
patients
Commercial model The Audit & Risk Committee (ARC) Stakeholders: The ARC recommended these limited SFI
changes in China and considered, and recommended to the HCPs, other medical experts, programme changes to the Board for
other selected markets Board, changes in our healthcare employees, investors, approval
professionals (HCP) engagement and governments, regulators,
To safeguard key stakeholder interests, the
sales force incentive (SFI) programme patients and consumers
new programme is being implemented in
in China and other selected markets.
A Non-Executive Director controlled phases across markets. A review
This reflected the growing shift in GSK’s
briefing workshop was of the robustness of the programme’s
portfolio to innovative Specialty Care
held as part of the ARC governance arrangements was presented
products and our aim to increase
review process. This enabled to the ARC at the end of 2020
competitiveness and build further on
the Board to meet the China
the initial phased roll out of the new
Pharmaceuticals Leadership
SFI programme in 2019
Team and discuss the
It examined these changes as a means of: country’s commercial policy,
risk management and
– Attracting and retaining the best sales
compliance culture
force talent in China
Other s172 duties:
– Increasing the sales force’s
Our long-term results,
accountability and performance focus
workforce, business
– Enhancing the quality of our dialogue relationships and reputation
with HCPs in China
– Helping us to serve patients better
The ARC agreed robust governance
arrangements to underpin these changes,
including real-time monitoring and
advanced data analytics. These uphold our
ethical and values-led approach to HCP
engagement
88 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Board activity and principal decisions continued
How Board/Committee has had Stakeholder groups and other Principal decision made by
Decisions regard to stakeholder interests section 172 duties considered our Board/Committees
COVID-19 solutions and The Corporate Responsibility Committee: Stakeholders: The Committee recommended, and the
pandemic preparedness – Considered GSK’s approach to HCPs, other medical Board approved, the proposals because they
investment COVID-19 solutions with our vaccines, experts, employees, fully aligned with our purpose, strategy and
adjuvant, and therapeutics pricing, investors, governments, areas of business focus
supply, and allocation regulators, non-
governmental organisations,
– Agreed the proposal to commit profits
multilateral organisations,
from the sales of COVID-19 vaccines
patients and consumers
during the pandemic to investment in
pandemic preparedness
The Committee was pleased to agree
GSK’s COVID-19 solutions’ approach and
principles: working in partnership, taking a
global approach, committing to access, and
supporting future pandemic preparedness.
This approach seeks to strike a balance
between generating economic return by
rewarding innovation and investing in our
business, while acting responsibly towards
our key stakeholders in supporting the
global response to the pandemic
New environmental The Corporate Responsibility Committee Stakeholders: The Committee recommended, and the
sustainability goals received and considered a proposal to Investors, employees, Board agreed, this step-change in the scale
review and develop our existing governments, regulators, and pace of addressing our impact on the
environmental sustainability targets non-governmental environment by committing to a goal of net
organisations and zero impact on climate and a positive impact
These ambitious new targets firmly
multilateral organisations on nature across our value chain by 2030
aligned to expectations on environmental
sustainability across our key stakeholder Other s172 duties: This will contribute to protecting and
groups, with a focus on climate change Our long-term results, restoring a healthy planet to improve people’s
and damage to nature workforce, business health. By linking these goals to actions to
relationships, community, remove carbon, improve biodiversity and
The Committee agreed that addressing
environment and reputation restore local water basins, we will
this expectation would positively impact
demonstrate a ‘nature positive’ approach,
GSK’s reputation, employee engagement
by giving back more than we take
and equity position, and mitigate our
exposure to financial and supply chain risk
Inclusion and The Corporate Responsibility Committee Stakeholders: The Committee supported the proposal and
diversity received and considered a proposal: Investors, employees, the Board agreed to:
– For greater transparency of employee governments, regulators, – Report employee race and ethnicity data
race and ethnicity data and aspirations non-governmental in the 2020 Annual Report, accompanied
in 2021. This supports our aspiration to organisations and by our headline aspirational statement
increase the percentage of our leaders multilateral organisations
– More detailed external disclosure of US
who identify as ethnically diverse Other s172 duties:
and UK data and specific aspirational
– To further increase our global gender Our long-term results, targets for delivery by the end of 2025
aspiration workforce, business
relationships, community, – Increase our global gender aspiration
The Committee noted that:
environment and reputation for VP and above roles to 45%, or higher,
– Our strategic commitment to being by the end of 2025
a modern employer was a key
component of the Trust priority, with
a strong employee experience being
critical to attracting and retaining key
talent to deliver our Innovation,
Performance and Trust priorities
underpinned by culture
– As part of our broader efforts in the
area of race, ethnicity and gender this
proposal was consistent with:
– Our approach to inclusion and
diversity (I&D), which focuses on
ensuring our workforce reflects
communities in which we work
and hire
– Disclosing gender diversity data
and aspiration setting globally
GSK Annual Report 2020 89Our purpose, values and culture
The Board’s role is to promote GSK’s sustainable success, During the year, the Board’s discussion of culture centred
drive long-term growth for shareholders and add value for on employees’ experience of GSK and our ways of working,
stakeholders. Our Strategic report on pages 1 to 76 particularly against the backdrop of the COVID-19 pandemic.
demonstrates how we work to achieve these goals, while It also considered our progress in evolving GSK’s culture
our Corporate Governance report on pages 78 to 110 explains against insights and reflections from key external stakeholders.
how our governance arrangements support our strategy and The Audit & Risk and Corporate Responsibility committees,
Innovation, Performance and Trust priorities underpinned by meanwhile, considered the respective risk and compliance
our culture. aspects of our culture change and performance in line with
our Trust priority.
Our purpose
GSK’s purpose is to improve the quality of human life by helping Culture change in a complex, global organisation such as GSK
people do more, feel better and live longer. It is underpinned by takes time and sustained effort. The Board recognises that the
our values of patient focus, integrity, respect and transparency. ‘tone from the top’ drives a company’s culture and that it, and
Our purpose and values are a source of great pride to our the CET, must be role models, with their words, actions and
Board, management and employees. They help attract and behaviours setting the template for employees. Board members
retain talented individuals who want to be part of a Group that seek to lead by example. For instance, alongside the rest of the
contributes to society. They also strengthen our relationships workforce, they take the following key GSK training and
with each other, and with patients, consumers and other key awareness modules:
stakeholders. In doing so, they help us to take new medicines,
– Living our values and expectations – which explores GSK’s
vaccines and consumer healthcare products to patients and
values, expectations and culture and their application to our
consumers around the world.
operations and ways of working
Our culture
– Anti-bribery and corruption
The Board is responsible for setting the Group culture, which
plays a key role in delivering high standards of business – Inclusion and diversity
conduct, promoting long-term success and unlocking and
The way our people have lived and worked through the
protecting value. GSK’s expectations of courage, accountability,
COVID-19 pandemic and the crucial role our leaders have
development and teamwork are fundamental to our culture. In
played is described on page 10.
2020, we continued to make good progress in evolving our
culture to increase the pace and performance focus of the way The recent race and ethnicity challenges in the US reinforced
we work, as discussed below. our focus on inclusion and diversity, a core element of our
culture. We are confident of our work to date but realise there
The Board receives regular updates from GSK’s CEO, CSO,
is more we can do. Further progress in promoting our inclusion
CFO, Head of Human Resources and global businesses on our
and diversity agenda is set out on page 36 of our Strategic
progress in aligning our strategy, performance and values-
report and page 103 of the Corporate Responsibility
based culture. It assesses the progress of our culture shift
Committee Chair’s report.
mainly through the results of GSK’s regular employee surveys.
A culture dashboard tracks four indicators of progress, namely: Our Code of Conduct embodies our values and expectations.
It is kept under review by the Board and is refreshed regularly.
– Appointing and promoting the right people
It is available on gsk.com.
– Leadership capability
Our corporate standards and employee policies are aligned to
– Employee engagement our values and expectations. They include our long-standing
Speak Up arrangements, which enable employees to raise
– Ways of working
matters confidentially or anonymously without fear of reprisal.
The Head of Human Resources regularly updates the Board The Board, through the Audit & Risk Committee, reviews Speak
on progress against these indicators. Up reports provided by GSK’s Global Ethics and Compliance
The Board further supports GSK’s culture change by seeking (GEC) team. Our Speak Up channels and reports are managed
to appoint and promote the right people, enhancing governance by an independent third party, with cases then investigated by
controls and processes to uphold and incentivise the right GEC.
behaviours, and training and developing employees. For more details on how we enable our culture change and
invest in and reward our workforce see pages 10 and 36.
90 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
The Board’s approach to engagement
GSK’s engagement with our main stakeholder groups – – Key stakeholder perspectives at the Board and CET
including patients, shareholders, consumers, customers and strategy day
employees – at all levels of the organisation and across the
– Business development analysis and justifications
enterprise is summarised on pages 16 and 17 of our Strategic
report. – Board and Committee evaluations
The way the Board considered key stakeholders’ interests in – Remuneration policy reviews and the wider workforce
its discussions and decision making in 2020 is set out below. pay perspective
For a holistic view of how the Board discharges this duty, – Culture and succession planning updates
this should be read in conjunction with the:
– Workforce Engagement Director updates
– Section 172 statement on page 108, and the areas it
– Annual Governance Meeting
cross-references in this Annual Report
– Annual General Meeting
– Principal decisions made by the Board and its Committees,
on pages 88 and 89 – Employee survey reports
Our stakeholders, quite rightly, have high expectations of us. – Briefings during Annual Strategy meetings
Our dynamic operating environment presents many challenges
– The Annual Budget and Business planning process
and opportunities. In responding to such prospects, the Board
– Corporate governance and regulatory development updates
seeks to ensure that, as well as remaining commercially
successful, we meet stakeholders’ expectations and uphold
Our workforce
our reputation, maintain our licence to operate, and build trust.
To ensure that we identify and respond to their expectations We have well established and strong engagement mechanisms
effectively, the Board engages with many stakeholders directly, with our colleagues, as described on page 10 and 16. Two key
as well as by other means. governance channels help communicate the workforce’s views
The influence and importance of different stakeholder groups to the Boardroom:
can vary, depending on the matter being considered. Indeed, – Feedback from GSK’s global employee survey
different stakeholders’ interests can be in conflict, requiring
– The work of our Workforce Engagement Director, Dr Vivienne
balanced judgment by the Board.
Cox, who regularly gathers and explains colleagues’ views to
Stakeholder engagement and feedback helps us identify the Board, as she outlines overleaf
emerging issues. It enables the Board to consider GSK’s
The Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors also regularly
activities in the context of what is relevant and important to
meet employees around the Group and report back to the
stakeholders, so ensuring we deliver our purpose, and advance
Board.
towards our goal of becoming one of the world’s most
innovative, best-performing and trusted healthcare companies. The overall employee engagement score from our global
employee survey is one of our operating key performance
Our principal Board Committees, and the CET, have delegated
indicators, and is published on page 10. This year’s survey was
powers. This enables them to build detailed understanding of
conducted in spring 2020 against the backdrop of the
the impacts of the company’s actions or plans on stakeholders
intensifying COVID-19 crisis and significant business change.
through engagement briefings. These insights are then shared
It resulted in an engagement score of 84%, the highest since
with the Board as appropriate.
the survey’s 2012 inception and an increase of 6% since the
The Board primarily receives intelligence on stakeholder previous survey in September 2019.
perspectives from the work of the Corporate Responsibility
The Board was very pleased to see improvements in survey
Committee, which is covered on page 102.
scores across each of our Innovation, Performance and Trust
To further improve their understanding of stakeholder matters, priorities powered by culture. These revealed the following
Board members are encouraged to meet individually with trends in employee sentiment:
employees, shareholders and other key stakeholders, during
– Purpose: Deeper connection to our purpose and the
their induction and afterwards on an ongoing basis. They are
patient/consumer. Positive changes in our culture are
encouraged to report to the Board on such experiences where
contributing to a more engaged, productive and happy
relevant and material.
workforce, and stronger performance. Employee feedback
The Board also learned of stakeholder views in 2020 from: was very consistent on these key benefits, with a general
– The CEO’s Board Reports agreement that the workforce contribution was being
recognised. There was strong support for the rationale
– Monthly stakeholder perception reports
behind GSK’s COVID-19 response, with its emphasis on
– Business updates People, Business Continuity and Solutions while retaining
focus on critical Innovation, Performance and Trust priorities
– Reactions to GSK’s COVID-19 response built around
powered by culture
People, Business Continuity and Solutions
GSK Annual Report 2020 91The Board’s approach to engagement continued
– Performance: Leader-driven care for our people: Our This led to a new Performance with Choice initiative, which
employees generally felt valued, supported and respected enables a combination of face-to-face collaboration and
during the crisis, which helped them form stronger digital working. The first wave of participants to sign up for
connections to their leaders and each other. They appreciated the initiative were office-based employees (including office
the greater regularity of communication, and its open, honest workers in laboratories and factories) who do not need to be
and more informal style on-site. In setting their new work parameters, employees
worked with their managers on how and where they work,
By necessity, our employees were much more flexible in
in line with their 2021 objectives, performance requirements,
how they got their jobs done, with many working around
and wider team preferences
commitments at home. They reacted well to leaders’
openness in sharing their own challenges and to support for – Clear accountabilities and pace: There was also a positive
more flexible working patterns. There was similar appreciation recognition that management were assembling the right
for the company's flexibility around childcare needs and teams with appropriate expertise irrespective of where, or at
holidays, and the support for employee health and wellbeing what level, people were in the company, to respond rapidly
and collaboratively to fast-changing issues and opportunities
Workforce Engagement Director
It is now two years since I became GSK’s first Workforce After the session, I then synthesised this feedback into a
Engagement Director, a role which has been my privilege to non-attributed report for the next Board meeting.
carry out. I have very much enjoyed meeting with a wide variety
Last October, the Chairman and I had the pleasure to meet
of employees across the Group in different businesses and
virtually with leaders and members of GSK’s Race and Ethnicity
geographies.
Employee Resource Groups. We talked about the Board’s
A plan of visits had been agreed for the year. However, due support for the CEO’s ambition and actions to improve inclusion
to COVID-19, we needed to be more creative and embraced and diversity. It was a wide-ranging conversation. In particular,
technology and switched to virtual meetings. Nonetheless, we discussed the commitment to be more transparent about
the meetings were very insightful and provided helpful the ethnic representation of our workforce and leadership,
employee perspectives on our progress and the evolution and to set public aspirational targets to focus everyone at GSK
of GSK’s culture. on improving this ratio. For further details on the company's
inclusion and diversity work and the newly published aspirations
The year’s schedule included Let’s Talk sessions with teams
see page 36. As I develop my role, I aim to incorporate an
of employees from Oncology US Commercial, Consumer
annual discussion with a selection of GSK’s Employee
Healthcare R&D and Marketing, Artificial Intelligence and
Resource Groups.
Machine Learning in R&D and Development R&D as well
as a dialogue with the Race and Ethnicity Employee Resource I am pleased to report that, in general, the employees I have
Groups. Finally, I observed the Annual Senior Leaders virtual met are broadly supportive of GSK’s culture changes and the
meeting. key benefits delivered. They value the advantages of working
for a large company with a strong purpose. The company’s
The Let’s Talk sessions are a well-established virtual employee
response to the COVID-19 crisis received particular support.
voice channel – to have direct conversations. Before each
However, as many of the workforce continue to deal with the
session, I received a briefing from the business and the
challenges of working remotely, I will continue to enquire how
Head of Human Resources. This included workforce data and
they are staying resilient, motivated and mentally well.
GSK survey data and insights on the business I was meeting,
in the context of the business as a whole and our wider group. Some employees have raised the impact of restructurings.
There was excitement about the opportunities that the
The Let’s Talk sessions followed a consistent format that
separation into two companies could bring, but there was
enabled me to directly compare feedback gathered from
also some natural trepidation, which is understandable.
different parts of the workforce during the year. Participants
COVID-19 permitting I hope to be able to engage with
represented a diverse cross-section of the employees within
employees face-to-face sometime during 2021. In the
each team. I was keen to hear both from employees who have
meantime, the virtual route is enabling me to carry out my
been with us for some time and those who were new to the
role. I look forward to continuing to provide a platform for
company and could bring recent perspectives, to compare
employees’ views and perspectives in the Boardroom.
GSK to other organisations they have experienced.
I introduced myself and my role, explained why I am passionate
about employee engagement, the purpose of the conversation Dr Vivienne Cox
and what I would do with the feedback. The ground rules were Non-Executive Director
managed in line with our values and expectations to ensure
participants were comfortable to express their anonymised
views. I kept the groups small, so that I could get to know the
participants and encourage them to share their views.
92 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
The Board’s approach to engagement continued
Our shareholders – A holistic view of the work, relationships and future focus of
the Audit & Risk Committee
The Board seeks to directly engage with private retail and
– To discuss our Remuneration policy, practices and proposals
institutional shareholders in several ways. These include
regular communications, the AGM and our Annual Governance The meeting was well received, with thoughtful and incisive
Meeting, and via the work of our Investor Relations team, the questions being put to the attending Board members and
Chairman, Sir Jonathan Symonds, and our Company Secretary, GSK’s external audit partner. Shareholder feedback was shared
Victoria Whyte. subsequently with the rest of the Board.
During the year, our CEO, Emma Walmsley, and CFO, Iain This year, as usual, the Annual Governance Meeting slides were
Mackay, also gave quarterly results presentations to institutional available on gsk.com after the event.
investors, analysts and the media by webcast teleconference. Annual General Meeting
These are available on GSK.com. This year our AGM in May 2021 will be held at our registered
Emma and Iain conduct a continual and active dialogue with office due to COVID-19 restrictions on public gatherings. We
institutional shareholders on our performance, plans and will broadcast the AGM and all shareholders are invited to join,
objectives through regular meetings. In 2020, Emma held ask questions and vote at the meeting, all electronically. Further
42 individual meetings with major shareholders and hosted 27 details can be found on page 279.
group meetings with actual and potential major shareholders. Unfortunately, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, we were unable
Meanwhile, Iain held 58 individual meetings and 28 group to hold our 2020 AGM as planned. We held it instead at our
meetings. registered office as a closed meeting attended by the Chairman
Jon maintains an active dialogue with our shareholders – and Company Secretary. This was in line with the minimum
including fund and portfolio managers – as well as seeing quorum for our shareholder meetings and the UK Government’s
governance professionals. This enables him to build a full lockdown requirements. Other Board members joined by
picture of major shareholders’ insights and perspectives on telephone. While this was not an ideal AGM format, our priority
GSK. Following his introductory meetings in 2019, he held was to protect our shareholders, employees and the Board, and
more than 16 general catch-up meetings with a range of uphold GSK’s governance, so we could continue to provide
investors, comprising approximately a third of the company’s healthcare to patients in need.
share register. We wrote to shareholders in early April 2020 to explain these
Annual Governance Meeting arrangements and to encourage them to submit proxy votes.
The Board holds an Annual Governance Meeting with Our responses to shareholder questions submitted in advance
institutional shareholders, key investment industry bodies and of our AGM were published on our website. All our proposed
proxy advisory firms. resolutions were approved by shareholders, with majorities
ranging from 88% to 99%.
This year, due to COVID-19, the Chairman hosted a virtual
event in December. He was joined by our Senior Independent The Board was very keen to provide a channel for meaningful
Director, Workforce Engagement Director, Committee Chairs engagement with shareholders, as it would at a conventional
and GSK’s external audit partner. We shared the following key GSK AGM. It therefore held a shareholder webcast immediately
information with investors: after the meeting, attended by all Board members. During the
webcast, our Chairman and CEO gave updates, after which
– Changes to the Board and its Committees and the increased
shareholders were able to question the Chairman, CEO, CFO
focus on Board imperatives and management oversight
and CSO. Questions could also be lodged for other Board
– The increased importance of the Corporate Responsibility members, for them to answer afterwards.
and Science committees
The webcast offered all shareholders, including those who
– The strong Board oversight of progress towards separation could not ordinarily attend our AGM, an opportunity to engage
via the Transformation & Separation Committee with our Board. Shareholders could join by telephone or online,
– Thoughtful and rapid response to COVID-19, focusing on with answers being given to a broad range of their questions,
employees, business as usual activities, and potential including some submitted in advance. A recording of the
treatments and vaccines webcast and a Q&A summary are available on GSK.com.
– Employee feedback on how positive changes in GSK’s
culture appear to be supporting a more engaged, productive
and happy workforce, and stronger performance
– The continued evolution of GSK’s approach to environmental,
social and governance (ESG) matters, with the emphasis on
social and ESG reporting
– GSK’s modern employer approach, including its focus on
inclusion and diversity, and the response of the Board and
organisation to these issues
GSK Annual Report 2020 93Board performance
The Board evaluates its performance, and that of its Action points
Committees, every year. The evaluation is normally carried out At the meeting to review the evaluation, the Board split into
externally every third year, with the last one being facilitated in three groups with an appropriate mix of Executive and Non-
2019 by Jan Hall of No 4, a business advisory company which Executive Directors to review and consider the report. After
does not have any other connection with GSK. The Board felt due consideration and discussion the following action points
it would be helpful for No 4 to conduct the 2020 evaluation to to further improve performance in 2021 were agreed:
check progress on the implementation of the key measures
– Consideration had and would continue to be given to stop
agreed by the Board after the previous year’s review.
any unnecessary tasks to free more time to focus on the
Preparation priorities with the pre-condition that creating shareholder
No 4 met with the Chairman in advance of the evaluation, value was of prime importance
for an update on how the Board is operating and GSK’s future
– Consideration would also be given to making the best use
priorities, and to agree the review’s objectives, scope and
of the Board’s time during virtual meetings and incorporating
timetable. The Company Secretary also provided No 4 with
opportunities for ‘unstructured discussions’ where possible
advance access to Board and Committee materials, and other
information. – The Board would continue to discuss the approach to
separation during the course of the year
Interviews
During November and December 2020, No 4 conducted – The Science Committee would look to further deepen its
confidential and detailed virtual interviews with the Board, understanding of how R&D’s resources were allocated
selected CET members, the Company Secretary, GSK’s
– There was a desire to further enhance root cause analysis
external auditor and our independent remuneration adviser,
that was undertaken when incidents or issues occurred. This
to seek their views on the Board’s effectiveness. These
was to ensure they could be avoided in the future and as part
meetings reflected an agreed discussion guideline that was
of the Group’s approach to further improving performance
sent to each participant beforehand. This included key topics
Board Committees
from the Financial Reporting Council’s 2018 Guidance on
The review of the Board committees focused on their progress
Board Effectiveness and the relevant requirements of its 2018
in embedding enhanced ways of working, that had been agreed
UK Corporate Governance Code, although this did not limit the
after No 4’s 2019 review of the Board’s governance and
feedback each participant could give.
architecture. It involved virtual interviews with Committee
Review
members conducted by No 4 on behalf of the respective
The Review sought to focus on progress made against what
Committee Chairs. Each Committee was considered to operate
the Board focused on for 2021 and to continue to evolve for the
effectively. To maintain optimal effectiveness, the Committee
successful delivery of two companies at separation and beyond.
Chairs were mindful of continuing to prepare full oral reports
The evaluation results and suggested next steps were included
to update the whole Board on their work as appropriate.
in a summary report, compiled by No 4 and discussed initially
The important issues would be highlighted for comment.
with the Chairman, CEO and the Senior Independent Director
Chairman
(SID). The Review was presented to the Board in December
The SID and No 4 sought feedback on the Chairman's
2020 which covered the following main areas of effectiveness
performance from the Directors individually and collectively.
review:
The results of the effectiveness review were then noted by
– Overall review of the Board No 4 and discussed by the Chairman and the SID.
– Board organisation, agenda and information
– Board dynamics, challenge and input
– Future strategy development and
– Performance delivery
The Review also highlighted proposals for the Board and its
Committees to better explore and resolve the ‘tough questions’,
which would be at the heart of making the Board even more
effective.
94 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Board performance continued
Progress on 2019 Board evaluation
Progress against the conclusions of the 2019 Board evaluation review is set out below.
Areas of focus for 2020 Progress/Achievements
Meetings and organisation Board and Committee presentations are organised around a brief summary of
To improve the balance between presentation and discussion to create more the key issues and questions to be addressed, so the majority of the allotted
time for debate time is given over to Q&As, discussion and decisions
Board dynamics and individual contributions Board and Committee agendas, papers and presentations have been further
To facilitate even greater individual contributions by creating more discussion evolved and organised to allow more time for Board members to provide
time insights and perspectives on matters critical to Board priorities
Committees Board Committee terms of reference were updated and a new Transformation
To review the remit and attendees at the Board’s Committee meetings to & Separation Committee was established by the Board in March 2020
ensure they are fit for purpose for 2020 and beyond
Risk This exercise was completed by the Board. The terms of reference of the
To agree which Board Committee will ensure deeper oversight and review of relevant Board Committee were updated to reflect the agreed reallocation of
each of the Group’s enterprise risks enterprise risk oversight responsibilities
Strategy and performance Board and Committee agendas have been organised to emphasise and
To conduct deep dives into the key strategic areas and ensure a focus on allocate time for discussing ‘mission critical’ input and decision papers,
supporting management to execute the agreed strategy to reinforce the focus on strategic execution
Board knowledge The Board benefitted from greater insight into GSK’s R&D strategy from
To deepen the Board’s knowledge and understanding of the latest scientific several R&D science theme deep dives during the year, specifically human
developments genetics, COVID-19 vaccines, mRNA technology and AI and ML
Stakeholders The Board is aligned with the CET on delivering these mission critical items
Within the business, the Board should continue to focus on the key areas of for the benefit of all our key stakeholders
focus for the CET, namely: strengthening the R&D pipeline, growth,
transformation and delivery of GSK’s Trust business priority
Externally, it should maintain strong relationships and communication with For more information on this continuing area of focus, see page 16
shareholders and other key stakeholders to seek their input and keep them
well informed on progress
Succession planning Charles Bancroft joined the Board and the ARC on 1 May 2020. He will
To complete the appointment of the Audit & Risk Committee (ARC) Chair’s succeed Judy Lewent as ARC Chair in March 2021, after this Annual Report
successor is published
Governance The Board approved, and the company announced, ambitious new
To build further on GSK’s commitment to environmental, social and environmental sustainability goals: to have a net zero impact on climate and a
governance (ESG) matters net positive impact on nature by 2030
A search has been undertaken to seek a successor to Lynn Elsenhans, as
Chair of the Corporate Responsibility Committee, Lynn has agreed to serve for
another year until she retires from the Board in May 2022. See page 105 for
further details
GSK Annual Report 2020 95Board Committee information
Each Board committee has written terms of reference which have been approved by the Board and are reviewed at least annually to
ensure that they comply with the latest legal and regulatory requirements and reflect best practice developments. The following is a
summary of the role of each Committee and lists its membership. The current full terms of reference of each Board Committee are
available on gsk.com. The number of Committee meetings and Committee members' attendance are described on page 85.
Details of Committee members' skills and experience are included in their biographies under ‘The Board’ on pages 81 to 82.
In accordance with the FRC’s 2018 Code, the Board has determined that Judy Lewent and Charles Bancroft have recent and
relevant financial experience. It has also agreed that they both have the appropriate qualifications and background to be audit
committee financial experts as defined by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and has determined that they are independent within
the meaning of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Board committee
Board Committee Role Membership comprises report on page
Audit & Risk Reviews the financial reporting process, the integrity of the Judy Lewent (Chair) 97-102
company’s financial statements, the external and internal audit Charles Bancroft (from 1 May 2020)
process, the system of internal control and the identification Vindi Banga
and management of risks, and the company’s process for Lynn Elsenhans
monitoring compliance with laws, regulations and ethical Dr Laurie Glimcher
codes of practice
Initiates audit tenders, the selection and appointment of the
external auditor, setting their remuneration and exercising
oversight of their work
Corporate Responsibility Considers GSK’s Trust priority and oversight of progress Lynn Elsenhans (Chair) 102-103
against the associated Trust commitments which reflect the Dr Vivienne Cox
most important issues for responsible and sustainable business Dr Jesse Goodman
growth. It has oversight of the views and interests of our
internal and external stakeholders and reviews issues that have
the potential for serious impact upon GSK’s business and
reputation
Science Supports the Board in its understanding of the key strategic Dr Jesse Goodman (Chair) 104-105
themes, upon which the company’s R&D strategy is based, Dr Laurie Glimcher
and of any external transactions, by performing in depth Judy Lewent
reviews of the underlying scientific assumptions to give the
Board technical assurance. It also undertakes more in depth
risk oversight of R&D related risks
Nominations & Reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board, Sir Jonathan Symonds (Chair) 105-106
Corporate Governance the appointment of members to Board committees and Vindi Banga
the appointment of Corporate Officers and makes Lynn Elsenhans
recommendations to the Board as appropriate. It plans and Judy Lewent
assesses orderly succession for Executive and Non-Executive Urs Rohner
directors and reviews management's Succession Plan to
ensure its adequacy
Is responsible for reporting to the Board, overseeing and
monitoring corporate governance arrangements and for making
recommendations to the Board to ensure the company’s
standards and arrangements are consistence with existing
corporate governance standards and emerging best practice.
It also reviews the company’s conflicts of interest
Transformation Advises and assists the Board on the transformation and Sir Jonathan Symonds (Chair) 107
& Separation separation of the company and oversees the associated risks Charles Bancroft
(Established on in separating the Group into Biopharma and Consumer Dr Vivienne Cox
12 March 2020) Healthcare companies Vindi Banga
Lynn Elsenhans
Judy Lewent
Urs Rohner
Remuneration Sets the company’s remuneration policy having regard to Urs Rohner (Chair) 111-138
GSK’s workforce remuneration so that GSK is able to recruit, Vindi Banga
retain and motivate its executives Dr Vivienne Cox
Judy Lewent
The Remuneration policy is regularly reviewed to ensure
that it is consistent with the company’s scale and scope of
operations, supports the business strategy and growth plans,
is aligned to the wider workforce and helps drive the creation
of shareholder value
(The Chairman and the CEO are responsible for evaluating and
making recommendations to the Board on the remuneration of
Non-Executive Directors)
96 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Our Board Committee reports
Audit & Risk Committee report – Working on a plan for the rest of 2020 to deliver business
as usual standards and to incorporate the learnings from the
Judy Lewent measures taken during first quarter process into this plan.
Audit & Risk Committee This plan was reviewed by the Committee in the first quarter
I am pleased to present this report, which will be my ninth and throughout the year and up to the approval of this Report.
and final one as Chair of the Audit & Risk Committee (the I am pleased to confirm that its effective operation by Finance
Committee). In 2020, the Committee worked largely to a has helped deliver smooth second and third quarterly results
recurring and structured programme of activities, which and has continued to provide a stable reporting and controls
understandably included the impacts of the COVID-19 platform through to the 2020 financial year end
pandemic. I devised this programme with the Company As part of the Committee’s role in assessing the effectiveness
Secretary and agree its content with management and the of the internal controls over financial reporting, the Committee
external auditor at the start of each year. It is adapted as continues to obtain regular updates on the progress of
appropriate as the year progresses. A breakdown of these strengthening information technology processes and their
activities and their areas of focus is available on gsk.com. associated infrastructure, especially around user access
In the following pages, I aim to share insights into the activities management. There are appropriate mitigating technology
undertaken or overseen by the Committee during the year. and business controls in place, while these processes are
Financial reporting and controls strengthened.
The integrity of GSK's financial statements, including the Annual As usual, the Committee was diligent in reviewing throughout
Report and quarterly results announcements, is an enduring key the year the appropriateness of our guidance, balancing the
focus for the Committee. The Committee’s position has always developments in the external environment and advising the
been to aim for clear and transparent financial disclosure in our Board accordingly.
financial reporting.
External audit: The impact of COVID-19 on the audit of the
In 2020, our 2019 Annual Report was published before the company from the onset of the crisis was assessed by the
COVID-19 crisis and its impacts had fully unfolded. However, external auditor, discussed with management and reported to
at the first signs that COVID-19 was spreading to several the Committee. There has not been any significant disruption
countries we closely monitored its potential impact on the to its audit process or timetable. This was monitored closely
production of our results. A number of key measures were by the external auditor and the Committee throughout the year.
taken by our Finance team and these were presented to the The Committee has continued to discuss the insights the
Committee. It was pleased that the financial reporting and external auditor has provided from the use of analytical tools
controls framework remained robust and did not require any and technology to help improve and accelerate the delivery of
fundamental changes beyond taking some targeted its audit work.
adjustments to ensure that our control framework continued
Significant issues: The Committee and the external auditor
to operate effectively through to the close of our first quarter
discuss the significant issues in relation to the financial
results and beyond.
statements that the Committee considers periodically through
These adjustments for our first quarter results included: the year and areas of particular audit focus. There is a high
– Adapting and deploying Finance’s crisis management degree of alignment between the Committee and the external
response through the formation of a One Finance Issues auditor over these areas of attention which are set out in their
Management Taskforce to address and deliver on the critical disclosures on pages 142 to 153.
areas for the Finance organisation Internal audit: The Audit & Assurance (A&A) team has adapted
– Delivering our results on time and to schedule with almost all its assurance work to take account of the changing business
of the Finance teams (and our third-party partners) working challenges and travel restrictions arising from COVID-19.
from home The A&A team regularly updated the Committee on progress
against its agreed schedule of 2020 audits and values
– Reviewing accounting considerations as a result of the
assurance reviews.
COVID-19 impact, which resulted in additional proposed
disclosures that the Committee considered and approved, As the new ways of working become more settled, we
while adopting and applying guidance issued by the Financial anticipate that there will be more opportunities for A&A to
Reporting Council (FRC) effectively perform assurance activities remotely, particularly
where the audit covers end to end processes that they can
access through technology. This will most likely apply to the
company’s Finance, Tech and R&D processes.
GSK Annual Report 2020 97Our Board Committee reports continued
SFI and HCP changes Fundamental to the success of the continued evolution of this
We are continuing to consider the rationale around and test new programme is strong leadership to drive our culture of
the robust governance arrangements underpinning incremental Performance with Trust. This is enforced and measured with our
changes to our Sales Force Incentive (SFI) Programme and governance controls and a zero tolerance for abuse.
Healthcare Care Professional Engagement (HCP) policy. Risk management, Internal controls and Enterprise risks
These resulted from GSK’s growing innovative Specialty care
GSK has a well-established and mature risk management
products, such as Oncology, and the progress in building our
and internal control framework which is described on page 99.
Specialty capability to transform our interactions with HCPs.
The Committee continues to scrutinise the operation of this
In 2018, limited updates were made to our HCP policy and in framework. It also reviews refinements that management
my Committee report in the 2019 Annual Report, I described proposes to the framework to ensure it remains fit for purpose.
the Committee’s scrutiny of and recommendation to the Board This further complements matters identified and managed as
to make limited changes to our SFI programme, to: part of the work of the Global Issues Management Team which
reports to the CET.
– ensure we can attract and retain best sales force talent;
Data analytics and key risk indicators: Global Ethics &
– enhance the quality of our dialogue with our HCPs; and
Compliance (GEC) has introduced key risk indicators (KRIs)
– hence better serve our patients. for all our enterprise risks with quarterly reporting of out of
We believe these changes were necessary to secure growth tolerance KRIs to our Risk Oversight and Compliance Council
for the company, deliver on our strategic priorities and act in (ROCC). In addition, risks and mitigations relating to COVID-19
the best interests of our patients, shareholders and other were incorporated within our most significant risks. GEC has
stakeholders. also hired data analytics specialists and enhanced data mining
tools into its team to further enhance our use of data analytics in
During 2020, in a further evolution of our commercial model,
our A&A and Independent Business monitoring groups.
the Committee has considered SFI and HCP policy changes
in China to support our innovative product launches and Emerging risks: To help guide the Committee’s emerging risk
competitiveness in that country. discussions at each meeting, a summary of particular areas of
focus for the ROCC from its most recent meeting is shared with
The Committee devoted a significant portion of its time
Committee members so that they have the most up-to-date risk
setting out robust governance arrangements to underpin these
information in front of them.
changes in China, including real-time monitoring/advanced
data analytics, that uphold our ethical and values-led approach Cyber security resilience: GSK’s information protection risk is
to HCP engagement. In addition, a Non-Executive Director one of our principal enterprise risks and, due to its criticality to
briefing workshop was held as part of the Committee’s the business, the Committee has continued to receive quarterly
consideration process. This enabled the Board to meet the updates as it monitors closely the ongoing work to manage this
China Pharmaceuticals Leadership Team and discuss the continuously evolving risk. Indeed, its relevance has been even
country’s commercial policy, risk management and compliance more acute during the COVID-19 pandemic, which in less than
culture. a week resulted in our entire office-based workforce moving
to a “work-from-home” model. In addition, information security
There has been a further roll-out of SFI and HCP policy
risks increased as a result of increased malicious email and
changes into other carefully selected markets. To safeguard key
malware targeting GSK through phishing and other forms of
stakeholder interests, the SFI programme is being implemented
social engineering which our Tech organisation were able to
in China and selected other markets in a controlled way
successfully combat. Further contextual details and the
following clear stage-gated phases. These steps are kept
mitigation activities that the Committee has overseen during
under review by management and the Committee.
the year are given on page 273.
The Committee has emphasised that the risk of unethical
Although the Committee had recognised that COVID-19 had
behaviour by sales teams is one that needs to be monitored
provided some unique information security challenges and
closely and comprehensive risk mitigation plans are in place
threats, it also created some significant opportunities to
too. As part of the ongoing development of the programme,
advance the security of the company.
the Committee seeks to adopt where possible best practice
guidelines for effective compliance programmes. Changes to
the SFI programme are underpinned by robust internal controls
which will continue to be a significant focus for the Committee
given the associated risks. We know we need to act swiftly if
things do not go as expected.
98 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Our Board Committee reports continued
Internal control framework Our A&A function provides independent assurance to senior
Our Board recognises its obligation to present a fair, balanced management and the Board on the effectiveness of risk
and diligent assessment of GSK’s current position and management Group-wide, in line with an agreed assurance
prospects. Reflecting this responsibility, it is accountable for plan. This helps senior management and the Board to meet
evaluating and approving the effectiveness of GSK’s internal their oversight and advisory responsibilities in fulfilling GSK’s
controls, including financial, operational and compliance strategic objectives and building trust with patients and other
controls, and risk management processes. stakeholders. A&A has a dual reporting line to our CFO and
the Committee.
We ensure the reliability of our financial reporting, and
compliance with laws and regulations, through our internal The Committee receives regular reports from business units,
control framework. This is a comprehensive enterprise-wide principal risk owners, GEC and A&A on areas of significant risk
risk management model which supports the Board’s continuous to the Group and on related internal controls. These reports
identification, evaluation and management of the Group’s assess the internal control environment within each principal risk
principal risks, as required by the FRC’s 2018 Code. The area, including enhancements to strengthen controls. Following
framework is designed to manage the risk of us not achieving consideration of these reports, the Committee reports annually
our business objectives. to the Board on the effectiveness of GSK’s internal controls.
A fit-for-purpose framework – complemented by our corporate In 2020, through the authority delegated to the Committee, the
values, expectations and Speak Up processes – ensures that Board conducted a robust assessment of the Group’s principal
the risks associated with our business activities are actively risks. This assessment, which was in line with the FRC’s 2018
and effectively controlled in line with our agreed risk appetite. Code, included consideration of the nature and extent of risk the
We believe GSK’s framework provides reasonable, but not Board is willing to take in achieving GSK’s strategic objectives.
absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board, via the Committee, also oversaw the effectiveness
The Board mandates the Group’s ROCC of senior leaders of our internal control environment and risk management
to assist the Committee in overseeing risk management and processes across the Group for the whole year, up to the
internal control activities. It also provides the business with approval date of this Annual Report.
a framework for risk management and upward escalation
GSK’s internal control framework and risk management
of significant risks. Each business unit has a risk board
governance structure is illustrated graphically on gsk.com.
structure which reports to the ROCC. Our business unit
Risk Management and Compliance Boards (RMCBs) are A review of the Group’s risk management approach is further
responsible for promoting the local tone from the top and discussed in the ‘Risk management’ section of the Strategic
risk culture, as well as ensuring effective oversight of internal report on pages 43 to 49. Our management of each principal
controls and risk management processes. risk is explained in ‘Principal risks and uncertainties’ on pages
261 to 275. The Group’s viability is discussed in the Group risk
Each principal risk has an assigned risk owner, drawn from
management section of the Strategic report on page 48.
senior management, who is accountable for managing his/her
principal risk, including setting and implementing risk mitigation
plans. They report annually on their respective risk management
approach and progress to the ROCC and the Committee.
Our GEC function assists the ROCC and RMCBs. GEC is
responsible for advancing enterprise-wide risk management
and for developing risk-based and ethically sound working
practices. It also actively promotes ethical behaviours by
enabling all employees to operate in line with our values and
comply with applicable laws and regulations.
GSK Annual Report 2020 99Our Board Committee reports continued
Significant issues relating to the financial statements
In considering GSK’s quarterly financial results announcements and the financial results in the 2020 Annual Report, the Committee
reviewed the significant issues and management judgements in determining those results. It reviewed management papers setting
out the key areas of risk, actions taken to quantify the effects of the relevant issues, and judgements made by management on the
appropriate accounting required to address those issues in the financial statements.
The significant issues considered in relation to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2020 are set out in the
following table, with a summary of the financial outcomes where appropriate. The Committee and the external auditor have
discussed the significant issues addressed by the Committee during the year and the areas of particular audit focus, as described
in the Independent Auditor’s Report on pages 142 to 153.
Significant issues considered by the Committee
in relation to the financial statements How the issue was addressed by the Committee
Going concern basis for the preparation The Committee considered the outcome of management’s half-yearly and year end reviews of current
of the financial statements and forecast net debt positions and the various financing facilities and options available to the Group.
The Committee also considered management’s review of the current and longer-term impacts of the
COVID-19 pandemic, at the outbreak of the pandemic and at the year end. Following consideration of
these assessments, which included stress testing and viability scenarios, sources of liquidity and funding,
forecasts and estimates, the Committee confirmed that the application of the going concern basis for the
preparation of the financial statements continued to be appropriate.
Revenue recognition, including returns The Committee reviewed management’s approach to the timing of recognition of revenue and accruals for
and rebates (RAR) accruals customer returns and rebates. The US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines accrual for returns and rebates was
£4.7 billion at 31 December 2020 and the Committee reviewed the basis on which the accrual had been
made and concurred with management’s judgements on the amounts involved. A fuller description of the
process operated in the US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines business in determining the level of accrual
necessary is set out in ‘Critical accounting policies’ on page 75.
Provisions for legal matters, including The Committee received detailed reports on actual and potential litigation from both internal and external
investigations into the Group’s legal counsel, together with a number of detailed updates on investigations into the Group’s commercial
commercial practices practices. Management outlined the levels of provision and corresponding disclosure considered necessary
in respect of potential adverse litigation outcomes and also those areas where it was not yet possible to
determine if a provision was necessary, or its amount. At 31 December 2020, the provision for legal matters
was £0.3 billion, as set out in Note 31 to the financial statements, ‘Other provisions’.
Provisions for uncertain tax positions The Committee considered current tax disputes and areas of potential risk and concurred with
management’s judgement on the levels of tax contingencies required. At 31 December 2020, a tax payable
liability of £0.7 billion, including provisions for uncertain tax positions, was recognised on the Group’s
balance sheet.
Impairments of intangible assets The Committee reviewed management’s process for reviewing and testing goodwill and other intangible
assets for potential impairment. The Committee accepted management’s judgements on the intangible
assets that required writing down and the resulting impairment charge of £293 million in 2020. See
Note 20 to the financial statements, ‘Other intangible assets’ for more details.
Valuation of contingent consideration The Committee considered management’s judgement that it was necessary to increase the liability to
in relation to ViiV Healthcare pay contingent consideration as a result of increases in sales forecasts as well as the unwind of the
discount and updated exchange rate assumptions. After cash payments of nearly £0.9 billion in the year, at
31 December 2020, the Groups’ Balance sheet included a contingent consideration liability of £5.4 billion
in relation to ViiV Healthcare. See Note 32 to the financial statements, ‘Contingent consideration liabilities’
for more details.
ViiV Healthcare put option The Committee reviewed and agreed the accounting for the Pfizer put option and concurred with
management’s judgement on the valuation of the put option of £1.0 billion at 31 December 2020.
100 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Our Board Committee reports continued
Auditor’s reappointment The Committee Chair regularly meets independently with the
External auditor audit partners. The Committee also meets the auditor at the end
of each meeting to discuss progress, as appropriate.
External auditor appointment
Last tender May – December 2016 Having reviewed the above feedback, and noted any areas of
Transition year 2017 improvement to be implemented by the audit team for 2021,
First shareholder approval of current auditor May 2018 the Committee was satisfied with the:
First audited Annual Report and 20-F Year ending 31 December 2018 – Effectiveness of the auditor and the external audit process
Next audit tender required by regulations 2026 – Auditor’s independence, qualifications, objectivity, expertise
and resources
There were no contractual or similar obligations restricting the
Group’s choice of external auditor. The Committee considers The Committee therefore agreed to recommend the
that during 2020 the company complied with the mandatory reappointment of Deloitte to the Board at the forthcoming AGM.
audit processes and audit committee responsibility provisions
Non-audit services
of the Competition and Markets Authority Statutory Audit
Our management operates on the presumption that other
Services Order 2014.
accountancy firms will provide non-audit services to GSK.
Effectiveness and quality of external audit process
However, where the external auditor’s skills and experience
The Committee is committed to ensuring that GSK receives a make it the only suitable supplier of non-audit support – such
high quality and effective external audit. In evaluating Deloitte’s as for audit-related matters, tax, and other services – it may be
performance during 2019, prior to making a recommendation used, in the best interests of the company. In line with GSK’s
on its reappointment in early 2020, the Committee reviewed non-audit services policy, the Committee must ensure that
the effectiveness of its performance against the criteria which auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded by
it agreed with management at the beginning of 2019. These reviewing and pre-approving the external auditor’s provision of
criteria are set out on page 103 of the 2019 Annual Report. such services.
The detailed criteria used for judging the effectiveness of
The company policy complies with the FRC’s 2019 Revised
Deloitte as external auditor (which are based on audit approach
Ethical Standard and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. It
and strategy, high quality independent audit, effective
observes the following core policy features on engaging the
partnership and value for money) and its overriding responsibility
external auditor for non-audit services:
to deliver a smooth, thorough and efficiently-executed audit for
2020 are available on GSK.com. GSK non-audit services policy, key features:
In undertaking its review, the Committee considered: Process: All non-audit services over £50,000 are put to competitive
tender with other financial services providers, in line with
– The overall quality of the audit
the Group’s procurement process, unless the skills and
– The independence of Deloitte experience of the external auditor make it the only suitable
supplier.
– Whether Deloitte exhibited an appropriate level of challenge
Safeguards: Adequate safeguards are established so that the objectivity
and scepticism in its work
and independence of the Group audit are not threatened or
Deloitte’s length of tenure was not taken into account when compromised.
assessing its independence and objectivity, as it was only Fee cap: The total fee payable for non-audit services should not
recently appointed as GSK’s auditor. However, the Committee exceed 50% of the annual audit fee, except in special
did consider how effectively it had assumed its role as auditor. circumstances where there would be a clear advantage in
the auditor undertaking the additional work.
The Committee also considered feedback on the 2020 external
Prohibitions: GSK’s policy includes a ‘whitelist’ of permitted non-audit
audit, through a survey of Committee members and the financial
services in line with the relevant regulations. Any service not
management team at corporate and business unit level. The on this list is prohibited.
survey covered the:
Pre-approval: All non-audit services require pre-approval as set out in the
– Effectiveness of the auditor’s challenge table below to ensure services approved are consistent with
GSK’s non-audit policy for permissible services. This process
– Integrity of Deloitte ensures all services fall within the scope of services permitted
and pre-approved by the Committee and does not represent
– Transparency of its reporting to management and the
a delegation of authority for pre-approval.
Committee
Value Pre-approver
– Clarity of the auditor’s communication and ways of working More than £50,000 Committee Chair and CFO
– Alignment of the 2020 audit to the Group’s investment in Between £25,000 and Group Financial Controller
Systems, Applications and Products (SAP) £50,000
Under £25,000 Designate of the Group
– Quality of the audit team’s leadership
Financial Controller
– Skills and experience of the audit team
The fees paid to the company's auditor and its associates are
set out overleaf. Further details are given in Note 8 to the
financial statements, ‘Operating profit’ on page 170.
GSK Annual Report 2020 101Our Board Committee reports continued
Corporate Responsibility Committee report
Audit & other services comparison (£m)
Lynn Elsenhans
Corporate Responsibility Committee
2020 111...448 2380..33
I am pleased to present my fifth report as Chair of the
Corporate Responsibility Committee (the Committee).
2019 1.5 2269..21 The Committee is now a very important part of the Board’s
oversight of the company’s Trust priority, overseeing and
guiding the CET in delivering long-term value for both
shareholders and society.
2018 3.9 2266..62
Role of the Committee
The Committee oversees GSK’s Trust priority and the
0 10 20 30 company’s progress against our Trust commitments, which
Audit and assurance services
reflect the most important areas for responsible and sustainable
Other services, including tax, regulatory, compliance and
treasury-related services business growth. It has oversight of the views and interests of
our internal and external stakeholders and reviews issues that
could seriously impact GSK’s business and reputation.
Fair, balanced and understandable assessment
The need for an annual report to be fair, balanced and The Committee has a rolling agenda. It receives reports from
understandable is one of the key compliance requirements for a CET members and senior managers to ensure that actions and
company’s financial statements. To ensure that GSK’s Annual progress on GSK’s Trust commitments are considered
Report meets this requirement, we have a well-established and regularly. This includes monitoring how the company engages
documented process governing the co-ordination and review of effectively with a broad range of stakeholders and responds to
Group-wide contributions to the publication. This runs in parallel the high external expectations of GSK as a global healthcare
with the process followed by the external auditor. company. The Committee is supported by our Chairman, CEO,
General Counsel, Presidents of Global Affairs and Pharma
The Committee received a summary of management’s
Supply Chain, and the VP Trust and Global Health, who are
approach to GSK’s 2020 Annual Report to ensure it met the
invited to its meetings. Other CET members attend as required.
requirements of the FRC’s 2018 Code. This enabled the
Committee, and the Board, to confirm that GSK’s 2020 Annual The Committee has oversight of the principal risks most relevant
Report as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and to its area of expertise and responsibility, namely: product
provides the necessary information for shareholders to assess quality, non-promotional engagement, supply continuity,
the company’s position and performance, business model and environmental sustainability, and environment, health and safety.
strategy. Each principal risk is managed by a member of senior
management to ensure appropriate controls are in place, with
Code of Conduct and reporting lines
clear plans to address any gaps. For more details on these risks
We have a number of well-established policies, (including a
see pages 43 to 45 and 261 to 275.
Code of Conduct), which are available on gsk.com, together
with details of our confidential Speak Up lines for reporting and Key activities
investigating unlawful conduct. In 2020 we focused particularly on the alignment of the Group’s
Trust priority to GSK’s purpose and strategy. As the company
Audit & Risk Committee Chair succession
navigated the challenges presented by COVID-19 and our
I was delighted to welcome Charles Bancroft, the former Chief
purpose became an aligning and motivating factor for
Financial Officer, Bristol Myers Squibb. As a designated UK
employees, this focus proved very helpful.
and US Financial Expert, Charlie joined the Committee – that
has, as a whole, competence relevant to the sector in which the During the year the Committee undertook a deeper oversight
company operates – on 1 May 2020. Since then, Charlie and I of the enterprise risks most relevant to its remit and expertise.
have been working on a smooth transition and handover before This involved regular reports from risk owners, including relevant
he succeeds me as Committee Chairman after the publication materials and advice on these risks, such as highlights from
of this Annual Report. relevant Audit & Assurance and Global Ethics & Compliance
outcomes.
It has been my privilege to serve as a member of the Board, to
Chair this Committee and to oversee the audit and risk aspects We made good progress on our Trust commitments, set
during so much change in the company, the environment and originally in 2018, notwithstanding the impact of the pandemic.
the regulation and governance of accounting and reporting in
pharma companies. I will continue to follow the company’s
progress up to and beyond separation of the Biopharma and
Consumer businesses.
Judy Lewent
Audit & Risk Committee Chair
8 March 2021
102 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Our Board Committee reports continued
The key activities reviewed included: Stakeholder engagement and insights
The Committee pays close attention to the evolving views and
Oversight of GSK’s COVID-19 response: Global health has
expectations of the company’s broad range of key stakeholders.
long been one of GSK’s key contribution areas. In recent years,
It reviews and discusses a regular report on stakeholder
the company has increased our focus on science to ensure we
insights at each meeting to ensure it considers the issues that
have the biggest impact, in line with our strengths and strategy.
may have a bearing on GSK’s reputation and the delivery of our
In 2020 the Committee oversaw the company’s response to
responsible business agenda. Employee insights and feedback
COVID-19 on behalf of the Board. The Committee and
were discussed in relation to the progression of the company’s
management are acutely aware of the need to respond in
modern employer agenda and the results of the 2020 employee
a way that balances the interests of key stakeholders and is
survey.
sustainable for GSK. The Committee discussed how GSK
could contribute scientific and technological expertise, and I meet directly with shareholders to understand any issues and
explored decision-making frameworks with management, concerns they may have. In December, I was pleased to engage
around responsible pricing models, access and allocation with a number of our largest investors at the company’s virtual
principles, and partnership criteria. These frameworks allowed Annual Governance Meeting. This included an interactive
GSK to make rapid decisions consistent with our values, session with participants on the increasingly important work of
purpose and strategy. the Committee over the year.
Environmental sustainability: The Committee reviewed and The Committee actively looks to ensure GSK’s continued
approved recommendations for GSK to set two new ambitious delivery against societal and shareholder needs, and is aware
goals: a net zero impact on carbon and a net positive impact of the increasing focus on environmental, social and governance
on nature by 2030. The Committee reviewed the contribution (ESG) issues among investors. It strongly supports
to these goals of GSK’s Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and management’s approach to managing ESG, including risk
Consumer Healthcare businesses. The Committee also mitigation. Management continues to benchmark our ESG
discussed the impact of climate change and nature loss on performance, and I am pleased to see a strong showing in this
human health, recognising that the new goals are consistent area. During the year, GSK was ranked second in the
with our purpose and strategy. Pharmaceuticals industry in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index,
and in early January came first in the Access to Medicine Index.
Modern employer: The Committee has regular oversight
The company also maintains a strong position in investor ratings
of GSK’s modern employer programme and had several
such as Sustainalytics, MSCI, and Vigeo Eiris.
discussions with management on race and ethnicity during
the year. The company will continue to report progress on The Committee monitors investor expectations on ESG
gender targets and, from 2021, has set and will disclose targets reporting and disclosure on an ongoing basis. GSK continues
on workforce race and ethnicity in markets where sufficient to align to best practice in reporting, in accordance with the
employee data is available. For further details on evolving the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (see 2020 ESG
company's inclusion and diversity agenda see page 36. Performance Summary) and the Taskforce on Climate-related
Financial Disclosures (see page 46).
Health and safety: The health and wellbeing of employees is
extremely important to GSK, together with the communities in Committee aims for 2021
which we operate. The Committee now has formal oversight of The Committee will continue to scrutinise and monitor GSK’s
employee health and safety as an enterprise risk, having always material Trust topics and relevant enterprise risks. It will also
provided oversight of these areas. The Committee had several work with management to continue to ensure that commitments
discussions with management on GSK’s health and safety in support of the Trust priority evolve according to external
performance, including detailed reports from the investigations expectations and company strategy, particularly as GSK
into the causes of two workplace-related fatalities during the progresses towards the creation of two new leading healthcare
year, to ensure the company takes appropriate action on all companies. The Committee considers the company is well
key learnings. positioned to support the continuing delivery of our Trust
priority.
Committee Chair succession
I am approaching the end of my tenure on the Board. However,
to facilitate a smooth transition to my successor, I have agreed
to stay on the Board for a further year until the 2022 AGM. This
is subject to my re-election at the AGM in May. I look forward to
working with and handing over to my successor once they are
announced.
Lynn Elsenhans
Corporate Responsibility Committee Chair
8 March 2021
GSK Annual Report 2020 103Our Board Committee reports continued
Science Committee report Pipeline progress
The Committee was pleased to observe the progress made
Dr Jesse Goodman by Dr Hal Barron, GSK’s Chief Scientific Officer (CSO) and
Science Committee President, R&D, in driving scientific innovation across R&D
This has been another significant year for the Committee, during during the year as the company continued to strengthen and
which it has renewed its focus on science at a deeper level to advance its pipeline. In 2020, we received nine major approvals,
support the Board, both in its understanding of the company’s including the approval of four new molecular entities in
R&D strategy and to provide reassurance and guidance as oncology, HIV and chronic kidney disease. We also delivered
required. lifecycle innovation for our key medicines in areas such as
respiratory disease.
During the year, the Committee has focused on three broad
objectives: There were encouraging major developments in our oncology
pipeline, including two major US Food and Drug Administration
– Ensuring that the key scientific assumptions which drive the
(FDA) approvals:
company’s R&D strategy remain valid
– Zejula (niraparib) as the only monotherapy available as a
– Providing technical assurance, particularly in relation to
first-line maintenance treatment for women with advanced
potential transactions
ovarian cancer regardless of biomarker status
– Delivering oversight of our research practices and patient
– Blenrep (belantamab mafodotin) for adult patients with
safety enterprise risks
relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma, the second most
As part of this renewed focus, the Committee undertook common form of blood cancer in the US
deep-dives into strategic themes including:
In addition, ViiV Healthcare obtained FDA approval of
– Human genetics Cabenuva (cabotegravir, rilpivirine), the first complete long-
acting regimen for the treatment of HIV-1 infection in adults.
– Artificial intelligence and machine learning (AI and ML)
Our vaccines pipeline is also progressing well with our highly
– Vaccines
promising maternal RSV vaccine candidate and our Men
– Oncology ABCWY five-in-one vaccines meningitis candidate both
AI and ML has been one of the most exciting areas addressed entering Phase III studies.
by the Committee during the year. Building capabilities in this Business development, strategic partnerships and
area will enable GSK to develop systems which take advantage collaborations
of our world leading access to human genetic data from Building on the foundations set last year, the Committee
collaborations with 23&Me, UK Biobank and FinnGen. This continued to review the scientific opportunity in a number
will have a significant impact on the future of R&D discovery of large-scale investments and business transactions.
and development processes across GSK.
Vir Biotechnology: The Committee supported GSK’s
Assessment of GSK’s response to COVID-19 collaboration with Vir to identify and accelerate new anti-viral
The Committee oversaw the company’s response in developing antibodies which could be used as therapeutic or preventative
potential vaccines and therapies for COVID-19. This response options to fight COVID-19 and future outbreaks. Three late-
included: stage studies are now underway with VIR-7831 with results
anticipated in the first half of 2021.
– Partnering our vaccines adjuvant with multiple companies
and research groups across the world, including Sanofi, This collaboration was expanded in February 2021 to advance
SK Bioscience of South Korea and Medicago of Canada new therapeutics for influenza and other respiratory diseases.
– Investigating next generation COVID-19 vaccines through Pan-TB collaboration: GSK joined a consortium of
our collaboration with CureVac philanthropic, non-profit and private sector organisations
(including the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation) to accelerate
– Developing potential therapeutic options to combat
the development of a novel treatment for tuberculosis (TB).
COVID-19 and potential future outbreaks through our
This is an important step in addressing the current challenges
collaboration with Vir Biotechnology and our own innovative
in diagnosing and treating drug-resistant TB.
pipeline assets
104 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Our Board Committee reports continued
CureVac partnership: In its role of helping to identify critical Nominations & Corporate Governance
emerging trends in science and medicine, the Committee Committee report
believes that accessing external innovative platforms is key
to the future of our vaccines business. Jonathan Symonds
Nominations & Corporate Governance Committee
GSK’s strategic partnership with CureVac provides access
to innovative messenger RNA (mRNA) technology, a rapidly I am pleased to present my second report as Chair of the
progressing platform for developing new vaccines and Nominations & Corporate Governance Committee (the
medicines. The technology could expand the range of diseases Committee). The Committee was re-named this year to reflect
which can be prevented or treated while potentially hastening its expanded role to encompass corporate governance matters,
development and manufacturing. CureVac’s mRNA technology thereby freeing more time at the Board and ensuring deeper
and manufacturing capability will complement GSK’s existing focus of this important area.
expertise in vaccines in addressing significant unmet medical Work of Nominations & Corporate Governance Committee
need. As we transform GSK and move closer to separation, the
In February 2021, building on this existing relationship, GSK Committee’s key priorities have been to:
entered into a further collaboration with CureVac to jointly – Search for replacements for our long-serving Directors,
develop next generation mRNA vaccines to offer broader Judy Lewent and Lynn Elsenhans
protection against a variety of different SARS-CoV2 varients
– Identify a third Scientific & Medical Expert (SME) to
and enable a quick response to new variants potentially
strengthen our scientific expertise on the Board and our
emerging in the future.
Science Committee
IDEAYA Biosciences collaboration: GSK’s partnership with
– Close any skills gaps
IDEAYA in synthetic lethality, an emerging field in precision
medicine oncology, could help us achieve a sustainable flow of Board changes
new treatments in this field. Synthetic lethality is one of GSK’s In my 2019 report, I described the search for Judy’s successor
four core research areas in oncology, making IDEAYA an ideal as Chair of the Audit & Risk Committee (ARC), which resulted
partner. in Charles Bancroft’s appointment to the Board on 1 May.
Charlie has recently retired from a successful career at Bristol
I would like to take this opportunity to thank Judy Lewent, who
Myers Squibb. He brings a wealth of financial and management
has been a member of the Committee since its inception in
experience in global biopharma, which will be invaluable to the
2017 and will retire from the Board after the 2021 AGM, for her
Board as GSK moves to the next stage of its development and
valuable contributions to our deliberations from a commercial
beyond. The handover arrangements between Judy and Charlie,
life sciences perspective. We look forward to being joined by
as he becomes ARC Chair after publication of this Annual
an additional Scientific & Medical Expert when they have been
Report, are described in Judy’s report on pages 97 to 102.
appointed to the Board to continue the Committee’s work in
Despite serving for over nine years, Judy continues to
developing the specialist scientific support that we provide to
demonstrate the characteristics of independence in carrying
the Board.
out her role on the Board.
In 2021, we will continue our role in supporting the CSO
We have appointed Korn Ferry to assist in the search for Lynn’s
and overseeing our R&D pipeline ahead of separation,
successor as Chair of the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
as GSK seeks to deliver the next generation of innovative
Korn Ferry, which also provides GSK with recruitment and
transformational medicines and vaccines for patients.
consultancy services, is a signatory to the Voluntary Code of
Conduct for Executive Search Firms on gender diversity and
Dr Jesse Goodman
best practice. We are using broad selection criteria, focusing
Science Committee Chair
on potential candidates with the following knowledge,
8 March 2021
experience and commitment:
– ESG: Depth of understanding and experience of the broader
ESG agenda and, ideally, the expectations of investors in this
area
– Using our science and technology to address health
needs: Experience of science and technology to progress
global health, potentially gained through working for, or in
partnership with, global non-governmental organisations.
Further experience of working with different stakeholder
groups, including governments, regulators and other public
policy organisations
– Making our products affordable and available: Familiar with
the issues of public access to medicine, ethical practices and
patient advocacy, ideally gained in the life sciences sector
GSK Annual Report 2020 105Our Board Committee reports continued
– Being a modern employer: The ability to contribute and We are committed to the diversity of our Boardroom, as GSK
lead a discussion on diversity and ethnicity, and familiarity is committed to equal opportunities for all our employees at all
with setting and monitoring high standards of health and levels of our organisation. The Board and management seek to
safety, and supporting employee health, wellbeing and encourage a diverse and inclusive culture throughout the
personal development company.
– Being a responsible business: Experience of developing An effective Board needs a range and balance of skills,
a culture that focuses on an organisation’s positive social experience, knowledge, ethnicity, gender, social-economic
impact through its engagement with employees, suppliers, backgrounds and independence, with individuals who are
customers and communities. Understanding and experience prepared to challenge each other and work collaboratively.
of the role and responsibility of organisations in minimising This mix needs to be complemented by a diversity of personal
their environmental impact and setting and monitoring attributes, including character, intellect, judgement, honesty
environmental targets and safety systems and courage.
I have described in my statement why we have asked Lynn to Board and CET diversity targets
remain in post for another year, before stepping down from the The Committee is responsible for developing measurable
Board at the 2022 AGM. The Board confirmed that, despite her objectives – and monitoring progress towards their achievement
impending nine years service, Lynn continues to demonstrate – to assist the implementation of the Board’s diversity policy,
the characteristics of independence in carrying out her role on including gender and ethnic diversity.
the Board.
Our diversity objectives are in line with the measurable targets
Given the critical importance of strengthening GSK’s pipeline, set out in the Hampton-Alexander and Parker reviews for
the Board has increased the time it spends on R&D strategy, achievement by 2020 and 2021 respectively. Our progress
while the Science Committee is focusing on science at a against these targets is set out below. For consistency, the
deeper level to support the Board’s understanding and provide diversity metrics are as at 30 October 2020.
reassurance and guidance as required. We are therefore
Diversity objectives Progress achieved
searching for a third SME who, when appointed, will see the
At least 33% of Board positions Exceeded objective: 41.5%
Science Committee being made up entirely of SMEs. Korn
held by women
Ferry is also assisting with this appointment. We have identified
At least 33% of CET positions Met objective: 33.3%
the following selection criteria for candidates:
held by women
– Possession of a scientific profile and leadership across
At least 33% of combined CET Exceeded objective: 40.6%
genetics/artificial intelligence, immunology and cell/gene and direct report positions held
therapy by women
– Relevant experience in academia, pharmaceuticals/biotech At least one Board Director Met objective: One Board Director
position held by an ethnic minority
leadership
– The ability to add value to the Board and to the creation of the The Committee is particularly intent on closing the gap
new GSK biopharma company between gender representation and increasing ethnic minority
representation on the Board and CET, and developing the
– Strong ethical personal qualities, providing a good fit with our
pipeline of direct reports to the CET from ethnic minorities.
diverse Board
The representation of women and ethnic minorities in
We have made good progress to date and look forward to
management positions is illustrated on page 37, as part of the
announcing the results of our searches.
diversity of GSK’s global workforce.
Board composition, tenure and diversity
The Board seeks to balance the composition and tenure of itself The Committee met with all Non-Executive Directors present
and its Committees, and to refresh them over time, so that they to receive and consider the succession plans for management,
benefit from the experience of longer-serving Directors and the and with the Executive Directors to ensure there was a diverse
fresh perspectives and insights of newer appointees. pipeline of potential successors. It also regularly reviews
succession planning for Non-Executive members of the Board.
We draw our Non-Executive Directors from a wide range of
industries and backgrounds, including the pharmaceuticals
Sir Jonathan Symonds
industry and R&D, vaccines, consumer products and
Nominations & Corporate Governance Committee Chair
healthcare, medical research and academia, insurance and
8 March 2021
financial services. They have a wealth of experience of complex
organisations with global reach. Many of our Board members
also have experience of long-cycle industries, which is of great
assistance in understanding our sector.
106 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Our Board Committee reports continued
Transformation & Separation Committee report
Jonathan Symonds
Transformation & Separation Committee
I am pleased to present my first report as Chair of the
Transformation & Separation Committee (the Committee),
which met for the first time in May.
The Committee is made up of our Senior Independent Director,
the Chairs of our Audit & Risk, Remuneration, and Corporate
Responsibility committees, and our Workforce Engagement
Director. I invite other Non-Executive Directors to our meetings
when it could save repetition at the Board.
The Committee has two principal functions:
– Exercising oversight of the Future Ready transformation
programme, particularly the cost savings and separation of
the company infrastructure, as the delivery team moves from
project design to implementation. We are also tracking the
status of key risk indicators, such as value capture and
technology
– Considering the optimal form of separation. This includes
the Consumer Healthcare business’s listing location and the
implications of the separation
The Committee is pleased that the programme is making good
progress, with full CET engagement and leadership and all
deliverables on track. I take great pride that the programme has
continued to be delivered as planned despite COVID-19, with
only minor adaptions necessary.
The programme has provided an opportunity to fundamentally
review the structure, cost base and ways of working of both our
biopharma and consumer healthcare businesses, including
consideration of increased automation, different service levels,
real estate impacts, procurement savings and accelerated
digitisation. These have been revisited following the successful
embedding of new ways of working after the outbreak of the
pandemic. The Committee also receives reports from our Audit
& Assurance and Compliance teams on the risks related to
achieving a successful separation.
The Committee and management have been very clear that
GSK will remain as one company until separation, with the
overriding emphasis being driving top line growth and improving
margin. Next year, I look forward to sharing further progress
on the Committee’s pivotal role in overseeing and guiding
management on the transformation and separation of GSK and
overseeing the associated risks in separating the Group into
two leading companies, in biopharma and consumer healthcare.
Sir Jonathan Symonds
Transformation & Separation Committee Chair
8 March 2021
GSK Annual Report 2020 107Section 172 statement
Company directors are required by law to promote the success This allows it to build trust and fully understand the potential
of their organisation for the benefit of both shareholders and impacts of the decisions it makes on all our stakeholders. Our
their wider stakeholders, including employees, suppliers and engagement with GSK’s main stakeholder groups, including
the community. our patients, shareholders, consumers, customers and
employees at all levels and across the organisation, are
This statement aligns to such requirements, as set out in
summarised on pages 16 and 17 of our Strategic report.
Section 172 of Section 414CZA of the Companies Act 2006
(the Act). It indicates how, during the year, our Directors The company’s governance architecture and processes are
addressed the matters set out in Section 172(1) (a) to (f) of the summarised on pages 85 to 93 of our Corporate Governance
Act when performing their duties. To avoid duplication, it report. This summary explores how the Board considers all
incorporates information from other areas of the Annual Report. relevant matters in making its principal decisions to contribute
The Board considers that the statement focuses on those risks to the delivery of GSK’s long-term priorities of Innovation,
and opportunities that are strategically important to GSK, and Performance and Trust.
consistent with the Group’s size and complexity.
More information on the issues, factors and stakeholders that
In performing its duty to promote GSK’s success, the Board the Board considers relevant to complying with Section 172(1)
focuses on various matters, including listening to and (a) to (f) of the Act can be found in the locations outlined below.
considering the views of shareholders and other key
stakeholders.
The Board has had regard to the following matters:
(a) Long-term results (b) Our workforce (c) Our business relationships
The likely consequences of any decision in the The interests of the Group’s employees The importance of developing the Group’s business
long term relationships with suppliers, customers and others
Strategic report:
Strategic report: Our business model (page 01) Strategic report:
Our business model (page 01) Our culture (page 10) Our business model (page 01)
Chairman’s statement (page 03) Modern employer (page 36) Industry trends (page 12)
CEO’s statement (page 04) Stakeholder engagement (page 16) Stakeholder engagement (page 16)
Capital allocation (page 02) Innovation (page 18)
Corporate Governance report:
Key performance indicators (page 11) Performance (page 28)
Board activity and principal decisions (page 87)
Risk management (page 43) COVID-19 solutions (page 24)
Our purpose, values and culture (page 90)
Viability statement (page 48) Reliable supply (page 39)
The Board's approach to engagement (page 91)
Working with third parties (page 40)
Audit & Risk Committee report (page 97)
Corporate Governance report: Risk management (page 43)
Nominations & Corporate Governance
Board activity and principal decisions (page 87)
Committee report (page 105) Corporate Governance report:
Our purpose, values and culture (page 90)
Board activity and principal decisions (page 87)
The Board's approach to engagement (page 91) Remuneration report:
The Board's approach to engagement (page 91)
Audit & Risk Committee report (page 97) Remuneration Committee Chair’s
Audit & Risk Committee report (page 97)
statement (page 112)
Corporate Responsibility Committee report
Directors' pay in a wider setting (page 122)
(page 102)
GSK.com:
Gender pay gap report
(d) The community and our environment (e) Our reputation (f) Fairness between our shareholders
The impact of the Group’s operations on the Our desire to maintain our reputation for high Our aim to act fairly as between members of the
community and our environment standards of business conduct company
Strategic report: Strategic report: Corporate Governance report:
Trust section including: Our culture (page 10) The Board's approach to engagement (page 91)
Environment (page 41) Trust (page 33) Investor information (page 244)
Environment, Health and Safety, and Ethics and values (page 39)
Environmental Sustainability risks (pages 45, Human rights (page 40)
271 and 272) Reporting and investigating concerns (page 39)
Climate-related financial disclosure (page 46) Anti-bribery and corruption risk (pages 44 and 265)
Non-financial information statement (page 49)
Corporate Governance report:
Our approach to tax (page 54)
Corporate Responsibility Committee report
(page 102) Corporate Governance report:
Corporate Responsibility Committee
GSK.com:
report (page 102)
Responsibility reports and data
GSK.com:
Modern slavery statement
108 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Directors’ Report
Our Directors’ powers are determined by UK legislation and The Nominations & Corporate Governance Committee
our Articles of Association, which contain rules about the reviewed the register of potential conflict authorisations
appointment and replacement of Directors. They provide (the Register of Conflicts) in January 2021. The Committee
that Directors may be appointed by an ordinary resolution reported to the Board that the conflicts had been appropriately
of the members or by a resolution of the Board, provided that, authorised and that the process for authorisation continued to
if appointed by the Board, the Director retires at the next operate effectively. The Committee then recommended the
Annual General Meeting following their appointment. approval of the Register of Conflicts to the Board which it
subsequently approved. Except as described in Note 39 to the
Our Articles also provide that all Directors are required to
financial statements, ‘Related party transactions’, during or at
seek re-election annually at the Annual General Meeting in
the end of the financial year no Director or Person Closely
accordance with the 2018 Code.
Associated had any material interest in any contract of
A Director will cease to be a Director if he or she: significance with a Group company.
– becomes bankrupt Our Articles prohibit a Director from voting on any resolution
– ceases to be a Director by virtue of the Companies Act or concerning his or her appointment or the terms or termination
the Articles of his or her appointment.
Independent advice
– suffers mental or physical ill health and the Board resolves
that he or she shall cease to be a Director The company has an agreed procedure for Directors to take
independent legal and/or financial advice at the company’s
– has missed Directors’ meetings for a continuous period
expense where they deem it necessary.
of six months without permission and the Board resolves
Indemnification of Directors
that he or she shall cease to be a Director
Qualifying third party indemnity provisions (as defined in the
– is prohibited from being a Director by law Companies Act 2006) are in force for the benefit of Directors
– resigns, or offers to resign and the Board accepts that offer and former Directors who held office during 2020 and up to
the approval and signature of the Annual Report.
– is required to resign by the Board
Change of control and essential contracts
Directors’ conflicts of interest
We do not have contracts or other arrangements which
All Directors have a duty under the Companies Act 2006
individually are fundamental to the ability of the business to
to avoid a situation in which they have, or could have, a direct
operate effectively. Neither is the company party to any material
or indirect conflict of interest or possible conflict with the
agreements that would take effect, be altered, or terminate upon
company. Our Articles provide a general power for the Board
a change of control following a takeover bid. We do not have
to authorise such conflicts.
agreements with any Director that would provide compensation
The Board reviews any new potential or actual conflict, which is for loss of office or employment resulting from a takeover,
recorded by the Company Secretary. Directors are not counted except that provisions of the company’s share plans may
in the quorum for the authorisation of their own actual or cause options and awards granted under such plans to vest
potential conflicts. The Nominations & Corporate Governance on a takeover.
Committee reviews the Register of Conflicts on an annual basis
Details of the termination provisions in the Executive Directors’
which the Board subsequently approves.
service contracts are given in the full version of the company’s
On a continuing basis, the Directors are responsible for 2020 Remuneration policy which is available at www.gsk.com in
informing the Company Secretary of any such new actual or the Investors section.
potential conflicts that may arise or if there are any changes
in circumstances that may affect an authorisation previously
given. Even when provided with authorisation, a Director is not
absolved from his or her statutory duty to promote the success
of the company. If an actual conflict arises post-authorisation,
the Board may choose to exclude the Director from receipt
of the relevant information and participation in the debate,
or suspend the Director from the Board, or, as a last resort,
require the Director to resign.
GSK Annual Report 2020 109Directors' Report continued
Content of the Directors’ Report The following information is also incorporated into the Directors’
Report:
For the purposes of the UK Companies Act 2006, the
Location in Annual Report
Directors’ Report of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year ended
Interest capitalised Financial statements,
31 December 2020 comprises:
Notes 17 and 20
Directors’ Report Publication of unaudited financial information Group financial review, page 50
Section Pages Details of any long-term incentive schemes Remuneration report
Corporate Governance report 77 to 110 Waiver of emoluments by a Director Not applicable
Employee engagement 92 Waiver of future emoluments by a Director Not applicable
Directors’ statements of responsibilities 140 to 141 Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash Not applicable
Investor information 243 to 299 Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash Not applicable
by any unlisted major subsidiary undertaking
The Strategic report sets out those matters required to be
Parent company participation in a placing Not applicable
disclosed in the Directors’ Report which are considered to
by a listed subsidiary
be of strategic importance:
Provision of services by a controlling Not applicable
Strategic report shareholder
Section Pages Shareholder waiver of dividends Financial statements,
Notes 16 and 44
Risk management objectives and policies 43 to 48
and 261 Shareholder waiver of future dividends Financial statements,
to 275 Notes 16 and 44
Likely future developments of the company 01 to 76 Agreements with controlling shareholders Not applicable
Research and development activities 18 to 27
Business relationships 40 The Directors’ Report
Diversity 36 and 37 – has been drawn up and presented in accordance with and in
Provision of information to and consultations with employees 10 and 36 reliance upon English company law and the liabilities of the
Carbon emissions 41 Directors in connection with that Report shall be subject to
Section 172 statement 16 to 17 the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
and 108
– was approved by the Board of Directors on 8 March 2021
and signed on its behalf by:
Sir Jonathan Symonds
Chairman
8 March 2021
110 GSK Annual Report 2020SSttrraatteeggiicc rreeppoorrtt
GGoovveerrnnaannccee aanndd rreemmuunneerraattiioonn
FFiinnaanncciiaall ssttaatteemmeennttss
IInnvveessttoorr iinnffoorrmmaattiioonn
Remuneration
In this section
Chairman’s annual statement 112
Annual report on remuneration 114
2020 Remuneration policy summary 133
GGSSKK AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22002200 111111Remuneration report
Chairman’s annual statement
On behalf of the Remuneration Committee (the Committee), Performance
I am pleased to present our Remuneration report for 2020. In terms of overall Performance, management just missed
This Annual report on remuneration and my annual statement the agreed internal budget target for biopharma primarily
will be subject to an advisory vote at our AGM on 5 May 2021. due to significantly lower than expected Vaccines sales volumes
I set out below key aspects of the Committee’s work and the as a result of COVID-19 pandemic disruption and lockdowns,
out turn from the implementation of our remuneration policy to across Adult vaccines (including Shingrix, Hepatitis, DTPa –
reward management’s performance in 2020. containing vaccines), Synflorix and Bexsero. However, despite
this we still continued to grow Shingrix, with sales of £2bn.
Overall, 2020 was an extraordinary and challenging year and
Indeed Group sales overall grew 3% CER. In particular, strong
the Board was pleased to see the continued progress against
growth drivers in New and Specialty products in Respiratory,
the company’s strategic goals. It is a testament to the increased
HIV and Oncology drove growth with sales of £9.7bn up 12%
focus that is being placed on improving commercial execution
CER. This group of innovative products now accounts for more
that despite the business disruption from the COVID-19
than half of our pharmaceuticals sales. In addition to this, robust
pandemic to adult vaccinations, most especially Shingrix,
and effective cost control supported delivery of 98% of the
our financial guidance for the year was delivered. However,
Group PBIT target with adjusted EPS of 115.9p -4% CER,
the internal PBIT target was missed which resulted in a reduced
at the lower end of the company’s earnings guidance set at
bonus outcome. The multiple ways in which the company
the beginning of the year before the COVID-19 pandemic
continues to work in response to COVID-19 are set out on
began. The Committee was pleased to note management’s
page 24. This includes the contribution of our adjuvant to
determination and drive to deliver its agreed financial guidance
progress potential vaccines, therapeutic assets with Vir
despite the environment. I confirm that the Committee did not
Biotechnology and our in-house asset otilimab.
make any adjustments to targets or measures for the Executive
Review of 2020 IPT Outcomes
Directors as a result of the impacts of COVID-19.
You will note from the 2020 Total remuneration on page 115,
Preparations to create two exciting companies post separation
that overall pay for Emma Walmsley our CEO and Iain Mackay
continued to schedule and remain on track despite the global
our CFO is down on 2019. The pay of Dr Hal Barron our CSO
disruption from COVID-19.
has increased on 2019, reflecting the vesting from the Long
Term Incentive award granted in the year he joined. I would like Trust
to set these outcomes in context against our overall Finally, the importance of the business operating responsibly
performance in 2020. was further highlighted in 2020 and new ambitious industry
leading environmental targets for climate and nature were
Innovation – In terms of innovation, the CSO and the R&D
introduced and work was also undertaken to introduce the
organisation made significant progress in 2020 in further
Inclusion and Diversity targets published recently. The employee
strengthening our R&D biopharma pipeline. R&D exceeded its
survey in 2020 saw the highest response rate to date of 85%,
targets. There were 9 major approvals in 2020; we now have
and the overall employee engagement score rose to 84%,
20 assets in late stage development many of which we believe
a 6% rise since the 2019 survey and the highest score since
will be transformational for patients. More than 20 business
its inception. The company has also topped the Access to
development deals were undertaken to strengthen our
Medicines Index for the seventh time in a row.
capabilities with the acquisition of a new antibody, mRNA
and genetic platforms and technologies.
112 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
2020 remuneration outcomes Looking ahead
All awards in relation to 2020 were made in accordance with Pension
our Remuneration policy. The key decisions made by the The Committee previously reported its intention to align the
Committee were as follows: current UK Executive Directors’ pension contributions with
the wider UK workforce by 1 January 2023. In response to
– Bonus – The outcomes for the CEO, CFO and CSO were
feedback from some of our shareholders and following a
determined by reference to performance against the agreed
review of the company’s pension arrangements in the US,
financial measure of Group PBIT, and the Committee’s
the Committee will also reduce the pension contributions
assessment of their individual performance during a
for the CSO to align with the wider US employee base by
remarkably challenging year. The formulaic methodology
1 January 2023.
used to calculate the financial performance determined that
payment would be made for achieving 98% of the financial Remuneration policy implementation for 2021
target. The Committee considered the progress against each The Committee agreed that Executive Directors should receive
Executive Director’s personal objectives for the year across all a 2% salary increase aligned with that provided to the wider
aspects of the company’s Innovation, Performance and Trust workforce in their respective geographies.
priorities. It believes the resulting overall bonus outcomes
The Board and the Committee continually look to ensure that
appropriately reflect the underlying performance and
our remuneration provisions support our business strategy and
progress made in 2020. See page 118.
priorities and seek to engage with shareholders on potential
– Vesting of LTI awards – only two thirds of the 2018 changes to our policy where we believe it is in the company and
Performance Share Plan (PSP) awards vested. This was shareholders’ best interests to make changes. In that context,
based on the last three years performance against the the Board is engaging with shareholders on the potential to
equally weighted pre-agreed measures. The R&D new provide a one-off additional performance incentive award to
product performance measure vested in full reflecting the the CSO. This aims to support continuity of management and
continued work in strengthening R&D and the successful delivery of our Biopharma R&D pipeline, thereby proactively
commercialisation of newly launched products. Equally, addressing one of the principal risks to the creation of
the focus on strong cash management and generation sustainable shareholder value over the next few years.
is reflected in full delivery of the adjusted free cash flow These discussions are ongoing and any resulting proposal
measure. Disappointingly, the company’s relative TSR would, of course, be set out in full ahead of a specific vote
performance over the past three years has again resulted at the 2021 AGM.
in this part of the award lapsing in full. The overall vesting
My statement in our 2019 Annual Report (see page 116) sets
level was therefore 66.66%. See page 120.
out our position on the implementation of provision 40 of the
In determining the 2020 bonus and LTI outcomes, the 2018 Code and we continue to follow this approach.
Committee carefully considered the Directors’ performance but
AGM
did not deem it necessary to exercise ‘discretion’ to address any
I would like to thank shareholders for their input and
anomaly in the performance outcomes. This review included an
engagement ahead of last year’s AGM and I welcome your
assessment of performance across all of the relevant measures
feedback on this report ahead of our AGM on 5 May 2021.
and the wider context including the company’s Trust priority.
Specifically, we look forward to receiving your support for
GSK did not access any COVID-19 Government support or
our Annual report on remuneration.
job retention schemes during 2020. Our dividend policy was
maintained during the year and the company delivered its
financial guidance. Urs Rohner
Remuneration Committee Chair
8 March 2021
GSK Annual Report 2020 113Annual report on remuneration
2020 at a glance
2020 Total Remuneration
The following shows the composition of total remuneration paid to Executive Directors in office at 31 December 2020, in
respect of 2020 and 2019.
Emma Walmsley Iain Mackay(1) Dr Hal Barron
£8m US$12m
81%
72%
77% US$10m
£6m
US$8m
£4m US$6m 42%
US$4m
£2m 40% 51% 28% 58%
23% US$2m
19% 60%
49%
£0m US$0m
2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019
(1) Appointed with effect from 14 January 2019
Fixed pay – salary, benefits and pension
Performance pay – annual bonus and LTIs earned in respect of the three year performance period
Pay for performance
2020 Annual bonus: financial performance 2018 LTI outcome: performance period ended 31 December 2020
Overall vesting 66.66%
Maximum
(105% of target)
Relative R&D new
[•]%
Target TSR product
0% 33.33%
98%
Threshold
(95% of target)
Adjusted Group PBIT
33.33%
Performance achieved Vested Adjusted
Maximum performance target Lapsed free cash flow
Executive Directors’ shareholdings (audited)
To align the interests of Executive Directors with those Share ownership vs SOR (multiples of base salary)
of shareholders, they are required to build and maintain
significant holdings of shares in GSK over time. Executive Emma Walmsley 6.5 6.7
Directors are required to continue to satisfy these Share
Ownership Requirements (SOR) by holding 100% of their Iain Mackay(1) 0.3 3.0
SOR for the first 12 months after leaving GSK and not less
than 50% of their SOR for months 13-24 after leaving GSK. Dr Hal Barron 2.33.0
Executive Directors and CET SOR % of salary 0 2x 4x 6x
CEO 650 (1) Appointed with effect from 14 January 2019
Other Executive Directors 300 SOR 31 December 2020 shareholding
Other Corporate Executive Team members 200
114 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Annual report on remuneration continued
2020 Total remuneration (audited)
Fixed pay Pay for performance
Annual bonus Vested LTI Awards
– Maximum opportunity: – Vesting at 66.66%
200% – Measures:
Salary – Measures: R&D new product
70% Adjusted Group PBIT AFCF
Total
Benefits 30% Individual objectives Relative TSR
remuneration
– Three year deferral of 50% – Plan:
could b
Pension into GSK shares 2018 PSP awards
Read more on pages Read more on pages 118 and 119 Read more on page 120 Read more below
116 and 117
2020 Total remuneration (audited)
Emma Walmsley Iain Mackay(4) Dr Hal Barron
2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019
£000 £000 £000 £000 $000 $000
Fixed pay
Salary 1,199 1,110 871 825 1,786 1,743
Benefits 141 192 155 139 58 659
Pension 245 220 175 171 1,247 1,259
Total fixed pay 1,585 1,522 1,201 1,135 3,091 3,661
Pay for performance
Annual bonus(1) 1,169 1,754 810 1,185 1,741 2,675
Vesting of LTI awards:
DABP matching awards – 412 – – – –
PSP(2) 4,277 4,396 – – 6,387 –
Total pay for performance(3) 5,446 6,562 810 1,185 8,128 2,675
Total remuneration £7,031 £8,084 £2,011 £2,320 $11,219 $6,336
Notes:
(1) Details of the mandatory bonus deferrals in 2020 and 2021 under the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan (DABP) are set out on page 130. (Matching awards ceased from 2018 and are
no longer granted under the DABP).
(2) Emma Walmsley’s 2017 PSP vested in July 2020 at a closing price of £15.83. At the time of the 2019 Annual Report the PSP figure used was based upon the average share price
during the three month period to 31 December 2019 (£17.28), therefore the published figure last year was £4,671,000.
(3) The Committee may in specific circumstances, and in line with stated principles, apply clawback/malus, as it determines appropriate. Following due consideration by the Committee,
there has been no recovery of sums paid (clawback) or reduction of outstanding awards or vesting levels (malus) applied during 2020 in respect of any of the Executive Directors.
(4) Appointed with effect from 14 January 2019.
GSK Annual Report 2020 115Annual report on remuneration continued
2020 Total remuneration (audited) continued
The following sections provide details of each element of 2020 ‘Total remuneration’, including how the Committee implemented
the approved Remuneration policy during the year.
Fixed pay (audited)
Salary The table below provide an analysis of Total benefits (grossed
The table below sets out the base salaries of the Executive up for tax) received by the Executive Directors in 2019 and
Directors over the last two years compared to increases for the 2020.
UK and US workforce. 2020 benefits 2019 benefits
£000 £000
Base salary
% Emma Walmsley
change 2020 2019
Benefits available to employees 62 60
Emma Walmsley 8% £1,199,176 £1,110,348
Business related services(1)
Iain Mackay 2.5% £871,250 £850,000
Business travel 36 85
Dr Hal Barron 2.5% $1,786,060 $1,742,500
Other benefits 43 47
UK & US employees 2.5% – –
Total benefits 141 192
Details of salary levels for 2021 are provided on page 126.
Iain Mackay
Benefits Benefits available to employees(2) 149 99
The UK remuneration reporting regulations require the company Business related services(1)
to add into each Executive Director’s Total benefits calculation Business travel 5 35
all items which are deemed by tax authorities to be a taxable Other benefits 1 5
benefit for them. Total benefits 155 139
These comprise: Dr Hal Barron $000 $000
– Employee benefits in line with the policy for other Benefits available to employees 58 62
employees, which may vary by location and role; and Business related services(1)
Business travel(3) – 414
– Business related services provided to employees to assist
Accommodation whilst on business travel(4) – 180
or enable them to carry out their role, which a tax authority
Other benefits – 3
has deemed to be a taxable “benefit” to the individual.
Because these are business expenses, the company meets Total benefits 58 659
the tax which arises on them and therefore the items are Notes:
shown grossed up for tax. These can be split into three areas: (1) Business related services which tax regulations deem to be a taxable benefit in
the UK and/or the US.
– Business travel: includes travel costs for the Executive (2) Iain Mackay’s Benefits available to employees of £149,000 have increased year
Director and as appropriate for their spouse/partner on year mainly due to a full year’s medical benefits as compared to only a partial
year in 2019. Benefits also include professional fees and vehicle allowance.
associated with accompanying the Executive Director on
(3) During 2019, GSK reviewed the methodology for allocating the cost of certain
GSK business which are deemed to be taxable benefits business travel. Using the previous methodology, Dr Barron’s Business travel
for the Executive Director. would have totalled approximately $129,000 net for 2019.
(4) Dr Barron’s place of main business moved during 2019 from the UK to the US,
– Accommodation whilst on business travel. which, taken together with the effect of COVID-19 on international travel, resulted
in a reduction in this benefit for 2020.
– Other benefits.
116 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Annual report on remuneration continued
Fixed pay (audited) continued
Pensions
Please see details of changes to pensions policy and its implementation on page 126. In addition, the Committee has determined
that all current and future UK and US Executive Directors will have their pension arrangements aligned to the wider UK and US
workforce, as appropriate, by 1 January 2023.
Executive Director Member since Pension arrangements in 2020
Emma Walmsley 2010 Pension contributions of 20% of base salary and matching contributions as follows:
Iain Mackay 2019
– from 1 January 2020 to 31 March 2020 based on the first £33,333 of salary(1) (2); and
– from 1 April 2020 to 31 December 2020 based on the first £13,333 of salary(1) (2);
with a cash supplement of 20% of base salary in lieu of pension on salary in excess of those figures.
Dr Hal Barron 2018 The CSO is a member of the 401(k) plan open to all US employees and the Executive Supplemental Savings Plan
(ESSP), a savings scheme open to US executives to accrue benefits above the 401(k) plan limits.
He receives a combined contribution rate under the 401(k) and ESSP plans of 6% (2% core contributions plus a
match of up to 4%) of total base salary and bonus, less the bonus deferred under the DABP.
He is also a member of the US Cash Balance and the Supplemental Cash Balance pension plans, under which
GSK makes annual contributions of 38% of base salary, in line with other US senior executives and members of
GSK’s CET.
(1) As a member of the defined contribution plan, Emma Walmsley and Iain Mackay are eligible to receive a matching award of up to 5% on the first £33,333 of their salaries from
1 January 2020 to 31 March 2020 and on the first £13,333 of their salaries from 1 April 2020 to 31 December 2020, in accordance with the terms of the plan.
(2) Emma Walmsley and Iain Mackay receive cash payments in lieu of pension of 20% of base salary in excess of £33,333 from 1 January 2020 to 31 March 2020 and cash payments
in lieu of pension of 20% of base salary in excess of £13,333 from 1 April 2020 to 31 December 2020, in line with GSK’s defined contribution pension plan rates.
The following table shows the breakdown of the pension values set out on page 115. The pension remuneration figures have been
calculated in accordance with the methodology set out in The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Group (Accounts and
Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2008 (Remuneration regulations).
Emma Walmsley Iain Mackay Dr Hal Barron
2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019
Pension remuneration values £000 £000 £000 £000 $000 $000
UK defined contribution 5 8 5 8 – –
US defined benefit – – – – 1,059 1,069
Employer cash contributions 240 212 170 163 188 190
Total pension remuneration value 245 220 175 171 1,247 1,259
Further details regarding the 2020 pension values for Dr Hal Barron are set out in the table below. The pensions figures disclosed
for Dr Hal Barron, who is a member of the US style defined benefit plans, are in accordance with paragraph 10.e.ii of Schedule 8 of
the Remuneration regulations.
The table shows the accrued benefit (ie the annual pension accrued to date). In accordance with the regulations, the pension
remuneration in 2020 was calculated as the increase in the accrued benefit, adjusted for inflation and multiplied by 20 to reflect the
fact that the benefit will be received for a number of years. The normal retirement age under the Cash Balance Pension Plan is age
65. There is no additional benefit for retiring early.
Accrued pension Pension remuneration
31 December 2020 31 December 2019 value for 2020
Dr Hal Barron pension values $000 $000 $000
US – Funded 2 1 20
US – Unfunded 158 106 1,039
Total 160 107 1,059
GSK Annual Report 2020 117Annual report on remuneration continued
Pay for performance (audited)
Annual bonus
30%
70%
Individual Annual bonus
Adjusted Group PBIT
objectives
2020 performance against targets
For 2020, the performance measures and weightings were as follows:
Weighting 2020 Adjusted Group PBIT performance
Positioning
Performance measure Executive Directors 2020 target Outcome against target
Adjusted Group PBIT 70% £8,465m £8,271m 98%
Individual objectives 30%
Threshold and maximum performance targets were set at 95% and 105% of target respectively.
The Adjusted Group PBIT target and outcome for the purposes of the Annual bonus calculation differ from Adjusted Group PBIT
disclosed elsewhere in this Annual Report, primarily because both the target and outcome numbers are calculated by applying
GSK’s budget exchange rates and not actual exchange rates.
The following table shows actual bonuses earned compared to the bonus opportunity for 2020:
2020 bonus opportunity 2020 bonus outcome
Financial Individual Total 2020 Total 2020
Target Maximum 2020 performance objectives bonus bonus
Bonus (% of salary) (% of salary) Base salary (% of salary) (% of salary) (% of salary) 000
Emma Walmsley £1,199,176 55.5 97.5 £1,169
Iain Mackay 100 200 £871,250 42 51 93 £810
Dr Hal Barron $1,786,060 55.5 97.5 $1,741
The table below provides more detail on delivery against Adjusted Group PBIT:
Financial performance
– Strong financial leadership of the Group in a challenging year
– Delivered full year reported Group sales of £34bn (+1% AER, +3% CER), with Vaccines sales impacted by lower US adult vaccination
volumes through COVID-19 disruption and partially offset by growth drivers in Respiratory and HIV
– Adjusted Group PBIT of £8,939m below target driven by lower sales but delivery supported by effective cost control
– Adjusted EPS of 115.9p (-6% AER, -4% CER) in line with guidance, delivery supported by effective cost control
118 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Annual report on remuneration continued
Pay for performance (audited) continued
The following table summarises performance against the scorecard of individual objectives agreed by the Committee for each
Executive Director, in addition to their contribution to the financial performance for 2020:
Individual objectives
Emma Walmsley
– Continued focus and progress against long-term IPT priorities – Supply chain reliability during severe disruption and continued
– Robust and agile commercial execution in exceptional network simplification
circumstances; Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines sales £24.1bn, – Sustained progress and leadership in ESG and Global Health.
Consumer Healthcare £10bn. Strong growth from new and New environmental sustainability commitments in climate and
specialty Pharmaceuticals £9.7bn (+11% AER, +12% CER). nature launched, expanded plans to accelerate our progress on
Shingrix £2bn (+10% AER, +11% CER) despite impact of Inclusion & Diversity, and continued top quartile recognition in
COVID-19 disruption. 28 first-market launches for Consumer external ESG ratings, including 1st place in Access to Medicines
Healthcare Index and 2nd place in Dow Jones Sustainability Index
– Significant progress in strengthening and advancing a – New leadership accountabilities and training. 13% new in role
sustainable pipeline of transformational Pharmaceuticals and for our top 125 enterprise key roles, 38% women at Senior
Vaccines, with 9 major approvals, 9 pivotal study starts and Vice President and Vice President level, with aspiration set for
over 20 late-stage assets in development race and ethnicity representation in the US & UK
– COVID-19 solutions including global partnerships for first- and – Progress towards a Purpose and Performance culture
second-generation vaccines and therapeutics, and providing accelerated through COVID-19 and reflected in highest
expertise and donations to support local response employee engagement rates recorded to date. Continued focus
– Transformation and separation plans on track to deliver two on values and expectations through disruption and remote
new competitive companies in 2022. Consumer Healthcare JV working, and launch of new flexible working approach
with Pfizer commercial integration delivered and remaining – Key leadership role in preparation for separation into two new
programme on track competitive companies
Iain Mackay
– Strong financial leadership of the Group in challenging year – Adjusted EPS of 115.9p (-6% AER, -4% CER) in line
– Delivered full year reported Group sales of £34bn (+1% AER, with guidance, delivery supported by effective cost control
+3% CER), with Vaccines sales impacted by lower US adult – Key leadership role in preparation for separation into two
vaccination volumes through COVID-19 disruption and partially new competitive companies
offset by growth drivers in Respiratory and HIV – Strong oversight across Finance and Tech during
transformation and through extreme COVID-19 disruption
Dr Hal Barron
– R&D strategy further strengthened and advancement of pipeline: – Significant progress towards one Biopharma, with “One
with 40 potential new medicines and 17 vaccine candidates, Development” organisation implemented and strong
9 major product approvals and 9 pivotal study starts. Over 20 foundation for single approach to governance and capital
significant business development deals executed to augment the allocation
pipeline, including: Vir Biotechnology, CureVac, Surface Oncology, – Employee confidence in pipeline up +8% and strong
The Broad Institute and Adrestia engagement across R&D organisation at 83%
– Over 70% of research targets genetically validated, more than 30 – Continuing to build GSK’s reputation for Innovation
targets identified from our 23&Me collaboration and the 1st jointly and external pipeline perception through significant
identified target in clinical development engagement on major platforms, with media and investors
– Advanced technology capability build continues with new London
AI hub opened, UK Functional Genomics network, NVIDIA
collaboration and key external hires in AI and ML. New talent in
18% of key R&D roles (79% external hires)
Malus and clawback policy In line with these disclosure guidelines, neither the Committee
For details of our policy on malus and clawback, please refer to (nor the Recoupment Committee) exercised malus or clawback
the company’s Remuneration policy report on page 144 of the during 2020.
2019 Annual Report, available on GSK.com.
Other policies
The Committee reviews and discloses whether it (or the For details of our existing policies on recruitment remuneration,
Recoupment Committee) has exercised malus or clawback. loss of office and termination payments, please refer to the
Disclosure is only made when the matter has been the subject 2020 Remuneration policy report on pages 141 to 150 of the
of public reports of misconduct, where it has been fully 2019 Annual Report, available on gsk.com.
resolved, where it is legally permissible to disclose and where
it can be made without unduly prejudicing the company and
therefore shareholders.
GSK Annual Report 2020 119Annual report on remuneration continued
Pay for performance (audited) continued
Value earned from long-term incentives (LTIs)
The following tables set out the performance achieved against the targets set for the company’s LTI plans and also includes
an update on performance of outstanding awards.
In line with the Committee’s agreed principles, for each measure applicable to the LTI awards, actual performance against
the targets is reviewed and adjustments made as appropriate to ensure that the vesting outcome reflects genuine underlying
business performance and that results are being delivered in line with our Trust business priority.
2018 PSP awards with a performance period ended 31 December 2020
The Committee reviewed the performance of the PSP awards granted to Executive Directors against the targets set. The Adjusted
free cash flow (AFCF) target was revised in line with the disclosure on page 125 of the 2019 Annual Report. It has been further
restated to take account of the revised phasing of the Future Ready programme restructuring cash payments and separation costs
based on detailed programme and separation planning undertaken in 2020. As a result the target has been increased by £0.39bn
to £10.95bn.
For 2020, the 2018 PSP was valued based on the closing share price on 11 February 2021 of £12.55 and the closing ADS price of
$35.32. Of the vested amounts for the CEO and CSO, none is attributable to share price appreciation over the performance period.
The Committee did not exercise any discretion in relation to the vesting of the awards or share price changes.
The performance achieved in the three years to 31 December 2020 and the vesting levels are set out in the table below.
Outcome and vesting level
Performance measures % of % of
and relative weighting Performance targets Outcome maximum award
R&D new product R&D new product sales performance measures aggregate three-year sales for new £7.34bn 100 33.33
performance products launched in the three-year performance period and the preceding two
(1/3rd) years, i.e. 2016-20.
Target % vesting
Maximum £4.39bn 100%
£3.99bn 75%
£3.79bn 50%
Threshold £3.59bn 25%
Adjusted free In line with the company’s agreed principles, the AFCF figures included adjustments £15.64bn 100 33.33
cash flow for a number of material distorting items, including legal settlements, exchange rate
performance movements and special pension contributions.
(1/3rd)
Original Revised
target target(1) % vesting
Maximum £13.89bn £12.60bn 100%
£13.29bn £12.05bn 75%
£12.08bn £10.95bn 50%
Threshold £11.72bn £10.63bn 25%
(1) T he revised target has been further adjusted since the 2019 Annual Report as noted above.
Relative TSR Ranked 9th 0 0
TSR ranking within comparator group(2) % vesting
performance
Maximum 1st, 2nd, 3rd 100%
(1/3rd)
4th 72%
5th 44%
Threshold(3) Median 30%
6th to 10th 0%
(2) T SR comparator group: AstraZeneca, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Eli Lilly, GSK,
Johnson & Johnson, Merck & Co, Novartis, Pfizer, Roche Holdings and Sanofi.
(3) T he vesting schedule is based on delivering 30% vesting for median performance.
In a comparator group of ten companies, median falls between two companies.
Total vesting in respect of 2018 awards 66.66%
120 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Annual report on remuneration continued
Pay for performance (audited) continued
Update on performance of ongoing LTI awards
The Committee also reviewed the performance of the PSP awards granted to Executive Directors in 2019 and 2020.
The following charts provide an estimate of the vesting levels taking into account performance to 31 December 2020. Actual
vesting levels will only be determined based on performance over the full three-year performance periods. The indications below
should therefore not be regarded as predictions of the final vesting levels. The AFCF threshold and associated vesting scales for
the 2019 and 2020 PSP awards have been adjusted. The net overall impact is an increase of £0.19bn to £10.93bn for the 2019
award and a decrease of £0.37bn to £9.62bn for the 2020 award.
These adjustments are to take account of the following items: revised phasing of the Future Ready programme restructuring cash
payments and separation costs based on detailed programme and separation planning undertaken in 2020, revised timing of Future
Ready programme divestments, cancellation of one of the Future Ready programme divestments.
There are no changes to the targets set for the R&D new product, Innovation sales (previously named R&D new product) or the
relative TSR performance measures for the 2019 and 2020 awards.
2019 PSP award 2020 PSP award
Ranked 3rd 122% of Ranked 3rd 122% of
or above £12.96bn threshold or above £11.41bn threshold
Maximum
Commercially Commercially Commercially
Median £10.93bn sensitive Median £9.62bn sensitive sensitive
Threshold
Relative Adjusted free R&D new Relative Adjusted free Innovation Pivotal trial Major regulatory
TSR cash flow product TSR cash flow sales starts approval
(1/3rd) (1/3rd) (1/3rd) (30%) (30%) (20%) milestones
Pipeline progress
Estimated vesting level Estimated lapsing level
(20%)
For threshold performance 25% of each award will vest in respect of each performance measure. Individual 2019 LTI award levels
appear on page 126 of the 2019 Annual Report. They are set out below for the 2020 LTI awards.
Historical vesting for LTI plans
Vesting %
Year of Adjusted free R&D new Business Lapsed Total vested
grant Relative TSR cash flow product diversification % %
2010 9 16 75 25
2011 0 13 16 11 60 40
2012 0 0 7 7 86 14
2013 0 0 21 17 62 38
2014 0 0 33 67 33
2015 15 21 33 31 69
2016 0 26 33 41 59
2017 0 33 33 33 67
2018 0 33 33 33 67
For the DABP, the 2010 awards were only subject to TSR performance and from 2011 awards were subject to the same performance measures as PSP awards.
2020 LTI awards
The 2020 DABP awards (in respect of the deferral of 2019 bonus) and the 2020 PSP awards are shown in the table below.
2020 DABP awards 2020 PSP awards
2019
% of total bonus Number of Face value Award level as % Number of Face value
deferred shares of award(1) of base salary shares of award(2)(3)
Emma Walmsley 52,169 shares £0.877m 575% 410,090 shares £6.9m
Iain Mackay 50% 35,223 shares £0.592m 400% 207,267 shares £3.5m
Dr Hal Barron 30,547 ADS $1.337m 500% 203,981 ADS $8.9m
(1) The face values of the DABP awards have been calculated based on a share price of £16.81 and an ADS price of $43.78, being the closing prices on 13 February 2020 (the day
before grant). These are nil-cost options for the UK Executive Directors and restricted shares for the US Executive Director. No performance conditions are attached to the DABP
awards, as they reflect the mandatory deferrals in respect of the 2019 annual bonus earned.
(2) The face values of the PSP awards have been calculated based on a share price of £16.81, and an ADS price of $43.78, being the closing prices on 13 February 2020 (the day
before grant). These are conditional shares, based on the performance measures outlined above.
(3) The performance period for the 2020 PSP awards is from 1 January 2020 to 31 December 2022.
GSK Annual Report 2020 121Annual report on remuneration continued
Directors’ pay in a wider setting
Internal context
In setting executive pay it is important that the Committee and I do so with a good understanding of wider workforce pay.
To that end on an annual basis I meet with our Human Resources Business Leaders (HRBLs) of Global Support Functions,
Pharmaceuticals, ViiV Healthcare, Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare to understand perspectives on pay and GSK’s
remuneration package for the wider workforce.
When I met with the HRBLs this year, we discussed the current enterprise-wide themes for employees for the wider group, namely:
– Attract, recruit and retain key talent to support an ambitious business agenda and working towards separation of the
Biopharma and Consumer Healthcare businesses
– Inclusion and diversity
– Pay reviews, including delivery of fair pay and setting appropriate salary budgets
– Pensions changes being undertaken in the US and those proposed in the UK and under consultation.
We also discussed how different pay levels/cultures in different markets and moving key talent between markets was handled.
Finally, Dr Vivienne Cox, our Workforce Engagement Director, is a valued member of the Committee and continues to bring
employee perspectives into the Committee’s discussions.
Urs Rohner
Remuneration Committee Chair
Remuneration structure for employees
Element Wider workforce pay Comparison with Executive Director and CET pay
Salary – The market competitiveness of salaries across the company – For our Executive Directors and for the CET, ordinarily
is assessed at a local market level. The competitiveness of increases in base salaries are in line with the average of the
roles, which is measured against the external market and wider employee population unless there is a change in
internal peers, is kept under regular review scope of the individual’s role, responsibilities or experience
Pensions – The company seeks to provide an appropriate pensions – Our Executive Directors and the CET are eligible to
and and benefits package that is aligned to competitive receive benefits broadly in line with the policy for our other
benefits market practices in those countries in which the employees, which may vary by location
company operates and our employees are based – Pension arrangements are structured in accordance with
where our Executive Director or CET member is expected
to retire. Current and future UK and US Executive
Directors will have their pension arrangements aligned to
the wider UK and US workforce by 1 January 2023
Annual – With the exception of our sales force, who participate in – Our Executive Directors and the CET participate in a plan
bonus separate arrangements, our wider workforce participates based on an assessment of a combination of stretching
in a plan based on performance against four business financial / business and personal objectives
and financial measures (three measures for Consumer – Our Executive Directors are required to defer 50% –
Healthcare). This is structured to reflect the priorities of and the CET 25% – of any bonus earned into shares or
the specific business area ADSs as appropriate for three years
– This plan is designed to reward our employees’ collective – Clawback and/or malus provisions apply
contribution to business achievement. Separate
mechanisms are in place to recognise outstanding
individual performance or to address under-performance
LTI plans – Our employees at Senior Vice President (SVP) and Vice – Our Executive Directors and the CET are granted annual
President (VP) level participate in the same PSP as our PSP awards with the same performance targets and
Executive Directors and the CET with the same periods
performance targets and periods – Our Executive Directors are required to hold vested
– Clawback and/or malus provisions apply awards for an additional two-year period
– Our SVP and VP employees, together with Directors and – Clawback and/or malus provisions apply
Managers below the CET, receive annual Share Value – Our Executive Directors and the CET do not receive
Plan awards of restricted shares Share Value Plan awards following appointment
122 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Annual report on remuneration continued
Directors’ pay in a wider setting continued
CEO pay ratios In light of this we have also provided supplemental ratios,
(Lower (Upper where LTI compensation has been excluded. We believe
Quartile) (Median) Quartile) this provides an additional view as LTIs formed a substantial
Financial year Methodology P25 P50 P75
percentage of the CEO’s total remuneration, which is highly
2020 130:1 96:1 62:1
variable and dependent on business performance. The CEO
2019 Option A 160:1 119:1 73:1
2020 total remuneration excluding LTI compensation is
2018 122:1 90:1 56:1
£2,754,000.
The pay ratios above are calculated using actual earnings for
Financial Year Methodology P25 P50 P75
the CEO and UK employees. The CEO total single figure
2020 51:1 38:1 26:1
remuneration of £7,031,871 for 2020 and £8,084,000 for
2019 Option A* 65:1 48:1 32:1
2019 (restated) are detailed on page 115 of this Report.
2018 70:1 52:1 34:1
Total remuneration for all UK full-time equivalent employees of
* Total remuneration less vesting of long-term incentive awards.
the company on 31 December 2020 has been calculated in line
Percentage change in remuneration of CEO
with the single figure methodology, except for employer pension
contributions for employees with a Defined Benefit pension due Emma Walmsley UK Employees
to the cost and complexity of such calculations. Instead, the 2020
£000 % change % change
Future Service Rate agreed at the most recent actuarial funding
Salary 1,199 8.0% 2.5%
valuation has been used for these employees. Otherwise this
Benefits 141 (26.6)% 0.0%
reflects their actual earnings received in 2020 (excluding
Annual bonus 1,169 (33.4)% 1.1%
business expenses), which were used to produce the percentile
calculation under Option A of the Remuneration regulations. For the wider UK employee population, the salary increase
Business expenses have been excluded as they are reimbursed includes the annual salary review as well as any additional
to employees and not sufficiently substantial in value to changes in the year, e.g. on promotion. UK employee benefits
significantly impact the ratios. are unchanged on the previous year as there have been no
changes to our benefit policies or levels. It does not reflect any
GSK continues to choose Option A because it is the most
changes to the level of benefits an individual may have received
robust and statistically accurate way for the company to
as a result of a change in role, e.g. on promotion. The UK
calculate the three ratios from the options available in the
employee population was considered to be the most relevant
Remuneration regulations. The decrease in the pay ratio for
comparison as it most closely reflects the economic environment
2020 is due to the lower pay for performance elements
encountered by the CEO.
(bonus, PSP and the discontinuation of DABP matching
awards) received compared to 2019. Historic CEO remuneration
Set out in the table below is the base salary, and total pay and Emma Walmsley £000
benefits for each of the percentiles. 2020 2019 2018 2017
Total remuneration 7,031 8,0945,8874,883(1)
2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018
Annual bonus award(2) (% of maximum) 49% 79% 93% 77%
£ P25 P50 P75
Vesting of LTI awards (% of maximum) 67% 67% 59% 69%
Salary 36,924 34,510 33,090 50,000 47,029 44,944 70,203 66,561 64,185
Total Sir Andrew Witty £000
pay and 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012
benefits 54,133 50,467 48,370 73,340 68,200 65,149 113,830110,638105,045 Total remuneration 715(2) 6,8306,661 3,902 7,207 4,386
Annual bonus award(2) (% of maximum) 0%(2) 97%100% 42% 88% 44%
The Committee believes that the median pay ratio is consistent
Vesting of LTI awards (% of maximum) 0%(3) 33% 38% 14% 31% 24%
with the company’s pay, reward and progression policies.
The base salaries of all employees, including the Executive (1) Emma Walmsley’s total remuneration includes her pay for the period 1 January
to 31 March 2017, before she became CEO.
Directors, are set with reference to a range of factors including
(2) Sir Andrew Witty received a pro-rata payment for 2017 in lieu of a variable bonus
market practice, experience and performance in role. opportunity, in accordance with the 2014 Remuneration policy.
Supplemental/Additional ratios (3) PSP and DABP awards for Sir Andrew Witty granted in 2015 did not vest until April
2018, in accordance with the terms of the Executive financial recoupment policy.
GSK’s CEO pay ratio is likely to vary, potentially significantly, over
time since it will be driven largely by CEO variable pay outcomes.
In line with our reward principles, the CEO has a larger portion of
her pay based on performance than the individuals at P25, P50
and P75. This means that depending on GSK’s performance the
ratio could increase or decrease significantly. The Committee
believes that our senior executives should have a significant
proportion of their pay directly linked to performance.
GSK Annual Report 2020 123Annual report on remuneration continued
Directors’ pay in a wider setting continued
Percentage change in remuneration of Directors All-employee share plans
UK Executive Directors may participate in HMRC approved
2020 percentage change
all-employee share plans with the wider UK workforce, i.e.
Salary/fee Benefits Bonus
% % % Share Save and Share Reward plans.
UK Employees 2.5 0.0 1.1
Participants of the Share Save plan may save up to £250 a
Executive Directors(1)
month for three years and at the end of the period have the
Emma Walmsley 8.0 (26.6) (33.4)
option to buy GSK shares at a 20% discount to the share price
Iain Mackay(2) 5.6 11.5 (31.6)
at the start of the savings contract. Participants of the Share
Dr Hal Barron 2.5 (91.2) (34.9) Reward plan contribute up to £125 a month to purchase GSK
Non-Executive Directors(1,3,4,5) shares which the company then matches.
Sir Jonathan Symonds(6) 201.7 0.0 –
For further details see page 130.
Charles Bancroft (7) – – –
Vindi Banga 23.6 (50.0) – Dilution limits
Dr Vivienne Cox 55.4 (75.0) – All awards are made under plans which incorporate dilution
Lynn Elsenhans (12.3) (73.3) – limits consistent with the guidelines published by the Investment
Dr Laurie Glimcher (18.2) (55.3) – Association. These limits are 10% in any rolling ten-year period
Dr Jesse Goodman (12.5) (65.2) – for all plans and 5% in any rolling ten-year period for executive
Judy Lewent (17.6) (85.4) – share plans (granted to senior executives). Estimated dilution
from existing awards made over the last ten years up to 31
Urs Rohner 16.3 (69.2) –
December 2020 is as follows:
(1) Percentage changes have been calculated based on the 2020 Total remuneration
table on page 115 for Executive Directors and the 2020 Total fees table on page 129
for Non-Executive Directors. All GSK employee share plans
(2) Iain Mackay joined the Board on 14 January 2019 whereas in 2020 he received his
full base salary for the year.
(3) Fees of Non-Executive Directors include fees received as cash and in the form of 1.04% 10%
shares or ADS under the terms of the Non-Executive Directors’ share allocation plan.
(4) The reduction in fees of US-based Non-Executive Directors is due to a reduction in 10%
intercontinental travel fees during the year relating to virtual attendance at Board and 0 02 04 06 08 10
Committee meetings due to COVID-19.
(5) Benefits of Non-Executive Directors decreased significantly during the year due to a
reduction in travel and subsistence costs incurred in relation to virtual attendance at Executive share plans
Board and Committee meetings due to COVID-19.
(6) Sir Jonathan Symonds was appointed to the Board on 1 September 2019.
(7) Charles Bancroft was appointed to the Board on 1 May 2020. 0.72% 5% Actual Limit
Relative importance of spend on pay 0 02 04
The table shows total employee pay and the Group’s dividends
paid to shareholders.
Change 2020 2019
% £m £m
Total employee pay 4.0 10,249 9,855
Dividends paid in the year 0.6 3,977 3,953
The figures in the table above, which reflect payments made
during each year and the impact of movements in exchange
rates, are as set out on pages 171 and 178. However, dividends
declared in respect of 2020 were £3,984 million (2019 –
£3,966 million) an increase of 0.45%.
Total employee pay is based on 95,884 employees, the average
number of people employed during 2020 (2019 – 97,214).
There were no share repurchases made by the company
during 2020 and 2019.
124 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Annual report on remuneration continued
Directors’ pay in a wider setting continued
External context
Comparator groups for pay and relative TSR
The Committee used two pay comparator groups when considering executive pay for 2020. The Global pharmaceutical comparator
group is also used to measure relative TSR performance. The primary groups used for each Executive Director were as follows:
European cross-industry comparator group Global pharmaceutical comparator group
Emma Walmsley Roche Holding AG Linde Deutsche Telekom Dr Hal Barron France US
Iain Mackay Novartis Sanofi Kering Sanofi AbbVie(1)
LVMH AstraZeneca Heineken Switzerland Amgen(1)
Anheuser-Busch Inbev Diageo BASF Novartis Bristol-Myers Squibb
Unilever Siemens Vinci Roche Holdings Eli Lilly
SAP Christian Dior Adidas Johnson & Johnson
UK
L’Oreal Inditex Bayer Merck & Co
AstraZeneca
Novo Nordisk A/S BAT Safran Pfizer
Airbus Volkswagen Reckitt Benckiser
(1) AbbVie and Amgen are included for remuneration benchmarking, but are not included in the relative TSR comparator group.
2020 CEO total remuneration positioning Performance graph
When reviewing the CEO’s remuneration, the Committee has The following graph sets out the performance of the company
also referenced pay for the Global pharmaceutical group. relative to the FTSE 100 index and to the pharmaceutical
performance comparator group for the ten-year period to 31
December 2020. These indices were selected for comparison
purposes as they reflect both the primary index of which GSK is
a constituent and the industry in which it operates.
European 400
cross-industry
group
350
Global
300
pharmaceutical
group
250
(£m) 4 6 8 10 12 14
Lower quartile Median to upper Emma Walmsley’s 200
to median quartile current position
Remuneration includes salary and the expected value of incentives based on the 150
Committee’s agreed benchmarking methodology.
100
31.12.10 31.12.11 31.12.12 31.12.13 31.12.14 31.12.15 31.12.16 31.12.17 31.12.18 31.12.19 31.12.20
GSK Total Return GSK Pharma Peers FTSE 100
Total Return Index* Total Return Index
* This index comprises AstraZeneca, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Eli Lilly, Johnson &
Johnson, Merck & Co, Novartis, Pfizer, Roche Holdings and Sanofi.
GSK Annual Report 2020 125Annual report on remuneration continued
Implementation of Remuneration policy for 2021
Fixed Pay Pay for performance
Salary Annual bonus
The Committee considered the average increases being There are no changes to the operation of the Annual bonus plan.
awarded to employees below the level of Executive Directors For full details of the policy in relation to the Annual bonus plan,
in the UK and US. After due consideration, it was agreed that please refer to the details on page 142 of the 2020 Remuneration
it was appropriate to award increases in line with the wider policy report of the 2019 Annual Report.
workforce to the CEO, CFO and CSO to ensure the
Bonus opportunity Weighting of
competitiveness of their remuneration could be maintained.
% of salary performance measures %
Adjusted Scorecard
Base salary 2021 % change
Group of individual
Wider workforce(1) – Target Maximum PBIT objectives
Emma Walmsley £1,223,160 Emma Walmsley
2
Iain Mackay £888,675 Iain Mackay 100 200 70 30
Dr Hal Barron $1,821,781 Dr Hal Barron
(1) Based on the average increase budget for employees below the level of CET in the In setting and assessing performance levels of the Executive
UK and US. Directors, the Committee considers performance against the
company’s Trust business priority (see page 33) which reflects
Benefits the Group’s approach to ESG factors.
No significant changes to the provision of benefits are proposed
Inevitably, targets linked directly to the financial and strategic
for 2021. For full details of the policy in relation to benefits,
plan are commercially sensitive. The Committee does not
please refer to the details in the 2020 Remuneration policy
consider it appropriate to disclose Annual bonus targets during
report on pages 141 to 150 of the 2019 Annual Report,
the year, as it may result in competitive harm. However, details
available at gsk.com in the Investors section.
of the performance targets, as usual, will be disclosed on a
Pension retrospective basis in the 2021 Annual Report.
The table below provides an overview of the pension
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan (DABP) 2021 awards
arrangements for each ongoing Executive Director in 2021.
The table below provides details of the mandatory deferral into
The Committee has previously committed to reduce existing the DABP of 50% of 2020 Annual bonus payments and the
UK Executive Directors’ pensions to align with the wider UK associated awards granted. The shares awarded have no
workforce by 1 January 2023. The Committee has also performance conditions, but must be held for three years,
determined that the pension contributions of the CSO will also regardless of continued employment.
be aligned with the wider US workforce by 1 January 2023. Any
Total bonus deferred DABP awards
new UK-based or US-based Executive Director’s pension will
into shares % Shares ADS
be aligned to the appropriate wider workforce on appointment. Emma Walmsley 45,779
Iain Mackay 50 31,725
2021 Pension contribution
Dr Hal Barron 24,355
Emma Walmsley 20% of base salary and matching contributions of 5%
Iain Mackay on the first £13,333 of salary in accordance with the
terms of the plan open to all employees, and 20% of Performance Share Plan (PSP) 2021 awards
base salary in lieu of pension on salary in excess The table below provides details of awards granted under the
of £13,333 PSP:
Dr Hal Barron 38% of base salary, less a contribution to the 401(k) and PSP award(1)
ESSP equivalent to 5% of total base salary and bonus
(net of the bonus deferred under the DABP). In addition,
% of salary Shares ADSs
in line with the wider US workforce, from 1 January
2021, a combined contribution rate under the 401(k) Emma Walmsley 575 550,757
and ESSP plans of 11% (7% core contribution plus a Iain Mackay 400 278,363
match of up to 4%) of total base salary and bonus (net Dr Hal Barron(2) 500 254,794
of the bonus deferred under the DABP).
(1) The awards were granted on 10 February 2021 at a price of £12.77 per share and
$35.75 per ADS.
(2) The Board is engaging with shareholders on the potential to provide a one-off
additional performance incentive award to the CSO. This aims to support continuity
of management and delivery of our Biopharma R&D pipeline, thereby proactively
addressing one of the principal risks to the creation of sustainable shareholder value
over the next few years. These discussions are ongoing and any resulting proposal
would, of course, be set out in full ahead of a specific vote at the 2021 AGM.
126 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Annual report on remuneration continued
Implementation of Remuneration policy for 2021 continued
LTI performance measures Performance
The measures and weighting for the 2021 LTI awards remain Relative TSR will continue to be measured against GSK’s
unchanged from those used for the 2020 awards. The Global pharmaceutical comparator group (see page 125).
weightings for the four LTI measures are:
The targets for the Adjusted free cash flow measure for the
2021 grant are:
LTI measure Measure Weighting
Innovation Innovation sales 20%
Target £bn % vesting
Pipeline progress 20% Maximum 9.50 100
Performance Relative TSR 30% 9.08 75
8.26 50
Adjusted free cash flow 30%
Threshold 8.01 25
Innovation Trust – business priority
The Innovation sales measure recognises the importance When setting targets and reviewing performance against all
of launching new products successfully and driving their LTI measures, the Committee considers and reflects on the
performance is key to our commercial success. company’s Trust business priority. Our Trust priority reflects
The Pipeline progress measure further increases our the company’s approach to ESG factors (see page 33).
emphasis on Innovation and seeks to reward acceleration and Shareholdings versus Share Ownership Requirement
strengthening of the pipeline. This is based on two equally (SOR)
weighted elements of our key assets or indications measured
Value of holdings as % of salary
over a three-year performance period.
SOR
% of salary 3 March 2021 31 December 2020
Points are allocated for successful assets in each sub-measure
Emma Walmsley 650 858 669
based upon their forecast commercial value (peak year sales) at
Iain Mackay 300 55 32
the end of the performance period.
Dr Hal Barron 300 444 232
The sub-measures for the 2021 award will vest as follows:
Shares subject to performance conditions are excluded from
Pivotal Trial Starts
each Executive Director’s SOR calculation until the end of the
Focuses mainly on phase III registrational trial starts, but may
performance period. These vested shares are then included as
also include phase II starts (eg in oncology).
part of the Director’s SOR to the extent that the performance
Performance level Points Payout conditions are met. The value of the holdings has been
Below Threshold <12 Nil calculated on a post-tax basis.
Threshold 12 25%
For Dr Hal Barron, ADS contributing to his SOR include his
14 50%
investments under the GSK 401(k) plan and the ESSP. During
15 75%
the year, he re-allocated his funds in both plans to the GSK
Maximum 17 100%
Stock Fund.
Major Regulatory Approvals Emma Walmsley and Dr Barron currently exceed their SOR.
Iain Mackay, who joined the Board in early 2019, is currently
Performance level Points Payout
Below Threshold <13 Nil working towards satisfying his SOR.
Threshold 13 25% The company has processes in place to ensure that each
15 50% Executive Director’s SOR will continue to be satisfied after
17 75% leaving GSK, including the monitoring of nominee accounts.
Maximum 19 100% Each Executive Director also agrees to the terms of the SORs
within their service contract.
The targets for Innovation sales and Pipeline progress measures
are of their nature commercially sensitive at the time of grant. At
the end of the performance period we will provide full disclosure
of what has been achieved.
GSK Annual Report 2020 127Annual report on remuneration continued
Remuneration governance
Committee role and membership Committee focus during 2020
These details are available on page 96 and are incorporated
Remuneration policy
by reference to this Report. The Chairman, CEO, Heads of HR
The Committee sets the broad structure for the Remuneration policy
and Reward, Group Financial Controller and the Company
and determines the remuneration of the Executive Directors, the
Secretary assisted the Committee during the year. Chairman and other corporate officers.
Adviser to the Committee Items discussed:
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) has been the – Proposed 2020 Remuneration policy
independent adviser to the Committee since it was appointed – Remuneration impact of major Group restructuring
in 2018 after a full commercial tender exercise was concluded – Engagement with shareholders and consideration of feedback
by the company. PwC is a member of the Remuneration
Salary review
Consultants’ Group and, as such, voluntarily operates under
The Committee periodically reviews and considers the remuneration
the code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration environment of Executive Directors and CET, approving annual
consulting in the UK. The code of conduct can be found at adjustments as necessary having regard to the remuneration of the
www.remunerationconsultantsgroup.com. wider workforce.
During the year, PwC did not have any other connection with Items discussed:
the Committee members or other Board Directors. However, – Review of remuneration environment (including wider employee
it did provide other consulting and assurance services to the trends)
– Executive Director and CET benchmarking, competitiveness and
company. In line with the protocols agreed and set by the
GSK comparator groups
Committee Chair under which PwC provided their advice,
– CET and Company Secretary salary review and recommendations
the Committee is satisfied that such advice has been objective
for 2020
and independent. PwC has provided independent commentary
– Executive Director salary review and recommendations for 2021
on matters under consideration by the Committee and updates
on market practice and legislative requirements. PwC’s fees for Annual bonus
advice during the year, which were charged on both a fixed and The Committee is responsible for setting specific performance
a time and materials basis, were £170,975. measures for the Annual bonus and for assessments of performance.
Willis Towers Watson provided additional market data to the Items discussed:
Committee. CEO, Executive Directors and CET 2019 bonus recommendations
and 2020 CEO bonus objectives
Shareholder votes on remuneration matters
LTI plans
Votes
Total votes Total votes Total votes withheld The Committee is responsible for approving LTI plan rule changes,
cast (billion) for (%) against (%) (million) grants, assessments of performance, and the vesting of LTI awards for
Remuneration report the Executive Directors, CET and below (including interim awards).
2020 AGM 3.4 94.5 5.5 24.5
Items discussed:
Remuneration policy
– LTI performance outcomes and vesting of LTI awards for CET and
2020 AGM 2.7 88.2 11.8 620.1 below
Service contracts and letters of appointment – Confirmation of LTI grants for CET and below
The table below sets out the dates of the Executive Directors’ – Implementation and embedding of new Pipeline progress measure
service contracts, which are available for review at the company’s Governance and other areas of focus
registered office and on gsk.com. Each Executive Director’s The Committee adheres to a robust remuneration governance
service contract contains a 12-month notice period. framework, ensuring alignment between internal actions and external
reporting/compliance requirements.
Date of contract Effective date Expiry date
Emma Walmsley 29.03.17 01.04.17 30.06.34 Items discussed:
– Review of Terms of Reference
Iain Mackay 18.09.18 14.01.19 n/a
– Committee evaluation annual review
Dr Hal Barron 16.12.17 01.01.18 31.12.24
– 2019 Remuneration report and proposal of 2020 Remuneration
The Non-Executive Directors (NED) have letters of appointment, Policy
which are available to view at the company’s registered office. – Confirmation of 2020 Group Budget for remuneration purposes
Each NED is expected to serve on the Board until the end of the – Remuneration considerations and committee programme for 2020
AGM following the third anniversary of their appointment. This is – AGM and Remuneration report feedback, the external
subject to election and subsequent annual re-election. Subject remuneration environment and performance target disclosure for
to mutual agreement, they are each expected to serve a further incentive plans
– 2020 Remuneration report disclosures, including CEO pay ratio
three years, and normally up to nine years from appointment in
– Annual governance meeting and key Committee messages
line with the provisions of the 2018 Code, subject to annual
– Committee Chair consultation with employee representatives
re-election.
on setting pay and wider workforce pay practices
128 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Annual report on remuneration continued
Non-Executive Directors’ fees
Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors 2020 Non-Executive Directors’ fees
The company aims to provide the Chairman and other Non- The Non-Executive Directors’ fees that applied during 2020 are
Executive Directors with fees that are competitive with those set out in the table below:
paid by other companies of equivalent size and complexity, Per annum
subject to the limits contained in its Articles of Association. Standard annual fee £95,000
Chairman’s fees Supplemental fees
Chair of the Audit & Risk Committee £80,000
The Chairman is paid a fee of £700,000 per annum, of which
Senior Independent Director £50,000
he takes 25% in GSK shares. The Chairman’s fees were
Scientific & Medical Experts £30,000
reviewed on the appointment of the new Chair. It was
Chairs of the Remuneration, Corporate £40,000
concluded they remained appropriate.
Responsibility and Science Committees
Workforce Engagement Director
Non-Executive Director undertaking intercontinental £7,500 per meeting
travel to meetings
Non-Executive Directors will continue to be required to invest at least 25% of their total net fees in GSK shares or ADS.
Implementation of Non-Executive Directors’ policy in 2020
Following a review and engagement with shareholders, Non-Executive Directors’ standard fees and fees payable to the Senior
Independent Director and other Committee Chairs (including the Remuneration, Corporate Responsibility and Science
Committees) were last increased with effect from 1 January 2020.
As part of shareholder approval of the 2020 Remuneration policy:
– a supplemental fee was introduced with effect from 1 January 2020, payable to the Workforce Engagement Director; and
– payment to a Non-Executive Director of up to the amount paid to a Committee Chair for undertaking additional duties in
exceptional or unforeseen circumstances requiring a significant additional time commitment was authorised.
No changes were made to the fees payable to the Chair of the Audit & Risk Committee or Scientific & Medical Experts. We do not
expect to make any other increases to the fees payable to Non-Executive Directors during the new policy period. The increases
described above reflect the time commitments of these roles.
2020 Total fees (audited)
The audited table below sets out the value of fees and benefits received by the Non-Executive Directors in the form of cash and
shares or ADS. Further details of the Non-Executive Directors’ share allocation plan are set out on page 131. Non-Executive
Directors’ fees that are paid in a currency other than Sterling are converted using an average exchange rate that is reviewed from
time to time. The average exchange rates were updated in 2020. Benefits comprise the grossed up cash value of travel and
subsistence costs incurred in the normal course of business, in relation to attendance at Board and Committee meetings. For
overseas-based Directors, this includes travel to meetings in the UK.
2020 2019
Non-Executive Directors’
Fixed fees Fixed fees
emoluments (000) (audited)
Cash Shares/ADS Benefits Total pay Cash Shares/ADS Benefits Total pay
Sir Jonathan Symonds £525 £175 £2 £702 £174 £58 £2 £234
Vindi Banga £114 £38 £2 £154 £92 £31 £4 £127
Charles Bancroft – $82 – $82 – – – –
Dr Vivienne Cox £107 £36 £2 £145 £69 £23 £8 £100
Lynn Elsenhans $93 $100 $20 $213 $24 $196 $75 $295
Dr Laurie Glimcher – $180 $34 $214 – $220 $76 $296
Dr Jesse Goodman $174 $58 $23 $255 $199 $66 $66 $331
Judy Lewent $183 $61 $12 $256 $222 $74 $82 $378
Urs Rohner £107 £36 £4 £147 £92 £31 £13 £136
GSK Annual Report 2020 129Annual report on remuneration continued
Directors’ interests in shares (audited)
Executive Directors’ interests in shares
The interests of the Executive Directors of the company in office during 2020 and their persons closely associated (PCA) are
shown in the table below:
As at 31 December 2020
Unvested share plan interests
Beneficial Subject to
Total directors’ interests as at interests Not subject to performance performance
3 March 2021(1) 31 December 2020(1) Shares/ADS(2) Shares/ADS(3,6) Options(4,7) Shares/ADS(5)
Shares
Emma Walmsley 1,150,620 787,639 316,761 281,324 189,554 1,372,409
Iain Mackay 68,879 36,655 – – 36,655 461,587
ADS
Dr Hal Barron 359,809 232,193 160,001 72,192 – 716,327
1) Total directors’ interests include beneficial interests and unvested share plan interests not subject to performance. The balance as at 3 March 2021
includes shares/ADS awarded in 2018 under the Performance Share Plan (PSP) and the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan (DABP) which vested in February and
March 2021 respectively less those sold to satisfy tax liabilities on the vested amounts. Executive Directors’ shareholdings versus their SOR are outlined on
page 127.
2) B eneficial interests include shares/ADS held by the Executive Directors and their PCAs. For Emma Walmsley, this includes 2,044 shares purchased
through the GlaxoSmithKline Share Reward Plan. Iain Mackay does not currently participate in the Share Reward Plan. As a US employee, Dr Hal Barron
is not eligible to participate in the Share Reward Plan which is only open to UK employees. Dr Barron’s beneficial interests include ADS and notional ADS
held by way of his investments in the GSK 401(k) plan and the Executive Supplemental Savings Plan (ESSP). During the year, Dr Barron re-allocated his
funds in both plans to the GSK Stock Fund. Further details on Dr Barron’s membership of the plans can be found on page 117.
3) U nvested shares/ADS not subject to performance represent PSP shares which have vested but are subject to an additional two-year holding period for
Emma Walmsley. Unvested ADS not subject to performance for Dr Barron represent bonus deferrals (as described in note 6 below).
4) Unvested options not subject to performance represent bonus deferrals under the DABP which are awarded as nil-cost options (as described in note 6
below). This figure excludes the 744 Share Save options held by Emma Walmsley.
5) Unvested shares/ADS subject to performance represent unvested PSP awards.
6) D ABP: The table below shows bonus deferrals and subsequent reinvestment of dividends under the DABP. The amounts represent the gross shares/ADS
balances prior to the sale of any shares/ADS to satisfy tax liabilities on vesting.
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan (Bonus deferrals) 3 March 2021 31 December 2020 1 January 2020
Shares
Emma Walmsley 169,201 189,554 165,445
Iain Mackay 68,879 36,655 –
ADS
Dr Hal Barron 97,509 72,192 38,499
As UK employees, bonus deferrals under the DABP are granted as nil-cost options to Emma Walmsley and Iain Mackay and the following table sets out
details of nil-cost options exercised. There are no outstanding DABP matching awards following this exercise.
Number of shares Date of Market price Gain on exercise
DABP Date of grant under option exercise Grant price at exercise (000)
Emma Walmsley
Deferral award 15.02.17 37,221 17.02.20 £0.00 £16.61 £618
Matching award 15.02.17 24,815 17.02.20 £0.00 £16.61 £412
In respect of nil-cost options awarded in 2017 under the DABP, the bonus which is deferred by the Executive Director was recorded as remuneration (under
Annual bonus) in the Total remuneration table in respect of 2016. Number of shares under option includes the initial award amount together with reinvested
dividends accrued to the date of exercise.
For the matching element of the DABP awarded in 2017, the remuneration of the Executive Director was recorded in the Total remuneration table in respect
of 2019 (the year that the performance period ended). The Remuneration Committee granted the last matching award in 2017.
130 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Annual report on remuneration continued
Directors’ interests in shares (audited) continued
Non-Executive Directors’ interests in shares
The interests of the Non-Executive Directors of the company in office during 2020 and their persons closely associated (PCA) are
shown in the table below:
Share allocation plan for Non-Executive Directors
Total directors’ interests as at(1) Number of shares/ADS
Beneficial Dividends Elected &
31 December interests at 31 reinvested after 31 December allocated during
3 March 2021 2020 December 2020(2) year end 2020 the year(3) 1 January 2020
Shares
Sir Jonathan Symonds 51,246 47,608 35,757 423 11,851 11,017 834
Vindi Banga 101,940 99,693 71,800 1,581 27,893 3,345 24,548
Dr Vivienne Cox 8,190 7,203 – 366 7,203 2,264 4,939
Urs Rohner 14,069 12,754 – 695 12,754 2,583 10,171
ADS
Charles Bancroft 2,211 1,367 – 26 1,367 1,367 –
Lynn Elsenhans 43,863 41,135 1,000 2,147 40,135 4,506 35,629
Dr Laurie Glimcher 18,503 16,614 – 813 16,614 5,122 11,492
Dr Jesse Goodman 8,853 8,086 – 412 8,086 1,734 6,352
Judy Lewent 30,437 29,058 10,166 1,003 18,892 2,278 16,614
1) T otal directors’ interests include beneficial interests and any shares/ADS received as all or part of their fees under the Non-Executive Directors’
share allocation plan. Dividends received on shares/ADS under the plan during the year and in January 2021 were converted into shares/ADS as at
3 February 2021.
2) Beneficial interests includes shares/ADS held by the Non-Executive Directors and their PCAs.
3) Shares/ADS allocated during the year under the Non-Executive Directors’ share allocation plan includes dividends reinvested during the year.
Directors and Senior Management
Further information is provided on compensation and interests of Directors and Senior Management as a group (the group).
For this purpose, the group is defined as the Executive and Non-Executive Directors, other members of the CET and the Company
Secretary. For the financial year 2020, the following table sets out aggregate remuneration for the group for the periods during
which they served in that capacity.
Remuneration for 2020 £
Total compensation paid 23,279,531
Aggregate increase in accrued pension benefits (net of inflation) 105,252
Aggregate payments to defined contribution schemes 1,280,970
During 2020, members of the group were awarded shares and ADS under the company’s various LTI plans, as set out in the table
below. To align the interests of Senior Management with those of shareholders, Executive Directors and CET members are required
to build and maintain significant holdings of shares in GSK over time. CET members are required to hold shares to an equivalent
multiple of two times their base salary, and must continue to satisfy these share ownership requirements for a minimum of 12
months after leaving GSK.
Awards Dividend reinvestment awards
Awarded during 2020 Shares ADS Shares ADS
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan (matching awards) – – 956 99
Performance Share Plan 1,682,807 377,238 240,354 64,739
Deferred Investment Awards(1,2) – – – –
Share Value Plan(2) 16,380 – – –
1) Notional shares and ADS.
2) Executive Directors are not eligible to receive Deferred Investment Awards or participate in the Share Value Plan.
GSK Annual Report 2020 131Annual report on remuneration continued
Directors and Senior Management continued
At 3 March 2021, the group and their PCAs had the following interests in shares and ADS of the company. Interests awarded
under the various LTI plans are described in Note 44 to the financial statements, ‘Employee share schemes’ on page 231.
Interests at 3 March 2021 Shares ADS
Owned 2,031,335 467,144
Unexercised options 8,030 –
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan 484,413 140,738
Performance Share Plan 6,310,974 1,480,220
Deferred Investment Awards(1,2) 374,964 –
Share Value Plan(2) 49,560 –
(1) Notional shares.
(2) Executive Directors are not eligible to receive Deferred Investment Awards or participate in the Share Value Plan.
Fees in respect of Executive Directors’ external appointments
CEO
Emma Walmsley is an independent non-executive director of Microsoft Corporation. During 2020, she received $325,000, of
which $125,123 was delivered as cash and $199,877 as stock options under the Microsoft Corporation’s Deferred Compensation
Plan for its non-employee directors.
CSO
Dr Hal Barron is a non-executive director of GRAIL Inc (a private company). During 2020, he earned $40,000 in fees.
Payments to past Directors (audited)
Sir Andrew Witty and Dr Moncef Slaoui left the Board on 31 March 2017 by mutual agreement. Dr Patrick Vallance and Simon
Dingemans left the Board on 31 March 2018 and 8 May 2019 as voluntary leavers. The vesting of the DABP awards is governed
by the Remuneration policy prevailing at the time each past Director left the Board. The table below reflects the value of the deferred
bonuses and accrued dividends to the point of release.
Sir Andrew Witty
Date of vesting Number of shares vested
2017 DABP 17 February 2020 40,031
Dr Moncef Slaoui
Date of vesting Number of ADS vested
2017 DABP 18 February 2020 12,498
Dr Patrick Vallance
Date of vesting Number of shares vested
2017 DABP 17 February 2020 25,200
2018 DABP 1 March 2021 50,301
Simon Dingemans(1)
Date of vesting Number of shares vested
2017 DABP 9 May 2020 34,314
2018 DABP 1 March 2021 48,628
1) Mr Simon Dingemans’ 2017 DABP award vested in May 2020 in accordance with the delayed vesting terms of the Recoupment Policy.
Other benefits: the grossed up costs predominantly for Simon Dingemans’ post-employment home security were £6,243.
Payments for loss of office (audited)
No loss of office payments were made in 2020 or 2019.
132 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
2020 Remuneration policy summary
The company’s Remuneration policy was approved on 6 May 2020 at GSK’s Annual General Meeting and has operated as
intended since its approval. The full policy is available at gsk.com in the Investors section.
Executive Director remuneration policy
Salary To provide a core reward for the role. Set at a level appropriate to secure and retain high calibre
individuals needed to deliver the Group’s strategic priorities.
Operation Opportunity
Individual’s role, experience, performance and independently There is no formal maximum limit and, ordinarily, salary increases
sourced data for relevant comparator groups considered when will be broadly in line with the average increases for the wider
determining salary levels. GSK workforce.
Salary increases typically take effect in the first quarter of However, increases may be higher to reflect a change in the
each year. scope of the individual’s role, responsibilities or experience.
Salary adjustments may also reflect wider market conditions in
Salaries are normally paid in the currency of the Executive
the geography in which the individual operates.
Director’s home country.
Details of current salary levels are set out in the Annual report
on remuneration.
Performance measures
The overall performance of the individual is a key consideration
when determining salary increases.
Benefits Levels are set to recruit and retain high calibre individuals to execute the business strategy.
Operation Where an Executive Director is based outside the UK, but is
Executive Directors are eligible to receive benefits in line with required to travel to the UK to fulfil the responsibilities of their
the policy for other employees which may vary by location. role and to attend Board Meetings, they may be subject to tax
These include, but are not limited to, car allowances, healthcare, on their business travel expenses to and from the UK and on the
life assurance/death in service (where not provided as part of provision of any accommodation in the UK. Although in reality it
the individual’s pension arrangements), personal financial advice represents a business expense, the tax treatment requires that
and contractual post-retirement benefits. In line with the policy their travel and accommodation expenses are then included as
for other employees, Executive Directors may be eligible to benefits. Because of the business context, the tax liabilities will
receive overseas relocation allowances and international be covered by the company on a grossed-up basis.
transfer-related benefits when required. Executive Directors
Benefit provision is tailored to reflect market practice in the
in the UK are also eligible to participate in all-employee share
geography in which the Executive Director is based and
schemes (e.g. Share Save and Share Reward Plan), under
different policies may apply if current or future Executive
which they are subject to the same terms as all other
Directors are based in a different country.
employees.
Opportunity
In order to recognise the high business travel requirements of
There is no formal maximum limit as benefits costs can fluctuate
the role, Executive Directors are also entitled to car travel and
depending on changes in provider cost and individual
exceptionally may be accompanied by their spouse/partner on
circumstances.
business trips. Other benefits include expenses incurred in the
Details of current benefits and costs are set out in the Annual
ordinary course of business, which are deemed to be taxable
report on remuneration.
benefits on the individual.
Performance measure
None
GSK Annual Report 2020 1332020 Remuneration policy summary continued
Executive Director remuneration policy continued
Pension Pension arrangements provide a competitive level of retirement income.
Pension arrangements provide a competitive level of retirement Any new Executive Directors in the UK will receive from date
income. of appointment:
– 7% of base salary contribution to defined contribution plan
Operation
and further 3% in matched contributions subject to any
Pension arrangements are structured in accordance with the
relevant cap and in line with implementation principles for
plans operated in the country in which the individual is likely to
other members of the plan; and
retire. Where the individual chooses not to become a member
– 7% of base salary as a cash payment in lieu of pension
of the pension plan, cash in lieu of the relevant pension
contribution for the portion above the relevant cap;
contribution is paid instead. Executive Directors in the UK are
or
entitled either to join the defined contribution pension plan or
– 7% of base salary as a cash payment in lieu of pension
to receive a cash payment in lieu of pension contribution.
contribution.
Where an individual is a member of a GSK legacy defined
US(1):
benefit plan, a defined contribution plan or an alternative
– Cash Balance and Supplemental Cash Balance pension
pension plan arrangement and is subsequently appointed
plans, providing annual contributions of 38% of base salary,
to the Board, he or she may remain a member of that plan.
split between the two plans as appropriate.
Opportunity – GSK 401(k) plan and the Executive Supplemental Savings Plan
The policy for all current Executive Directors is: (ESSP) with core contributions of 2% of salary and bonus(2)
UK: and matched contributions of 4% of salary and bonus(2).
– 20% of base salary contribution to defined contribution plan Any new Executive Directors in the US will receive:
and further 5% in matched contributions subject to any – Cash Balance and Supplemental Cash Balance pension
relevant cap and in line with implementation principles for plans, providing annual contributions of 5% of base salary
other members of the plan; and and bonus, split between the two plans as appropriate.
– 20% of base salary as a cash payment in lieu of pension – GSK 401(k) plan and the ESSP with core contributions of
contribution for the portion above the relevant cap; 2% of salary and bonus(2) and matched contributions of 4%
or of salary and bonus(2).
– 20% of base salary as a cash payment in lieu of pension Global:
contribution. – Eligible for appropriate equivalent arrangement not in excess
From 1 January 2023, any current UK Executive Directors who of the US/UK arrangements.
are still in role will have their pension arrangements aligned to Performance measures
new Executive Directors’ arrangements as follows. None.
(1) I n the event of any change to the plans operated in the US, a similar value would be
provided under any successor arrangements introduced within the market.
(2) L ess bonus deferred under the DABP.
Annual bonus To incentivise and recognise execution of the business strategy on an annual basis. Rewards the
achievement of stretching annual financial and strategic business targets and delivery of personal
objectives.
Operation The Committee may apply judgement in making appropriate
Financial, operational and business targets are set at the start of adjustments to bonus outcomes to ensure they reflect underlying
the year by the Committee and bonus levels are determined by business performance. Clawback and/or malus provisions apply
the Committee based on performance against those targets. as described on page 144 of the 2019 Annual Report.
Individual objectives are set at the start of the year by the Opportunity
Committee and performance against those objectives is The maximum bonus opportunity for Executive Directors is
assessed by the Committee. 200% of salary. For threshold performance, the bonus pay-out
on the financial measure will be nil. For target performance,
Executive Directors are required to defer 50% of any bonus
the bonus payout will be 50% of the maximum opportunity.
earned into shares, or ADS as appropriate, for three years.
Deferred bonus shares are eligible for dividend equivalents Performance measures
up to the date of vesting. Based on a combination of financial targets and individual/
strategic performance objectives, with the majority of the bonus
assessed against the financial measures. The weighting
between different measures will be determined each year
according to business priorities. Further details, including the
measures to be used in the financial year, are provided in the
Annual report on remuneration.
134 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
2020 Remuneration policy summary continued
Executive Director remuneration policy continued
Selection of annual bonus measures
The annual bonus is designed to drive the achievement of The majority of the annual bonus opportunity is based on a
GSK’s annual financial and strategic business targets and formal review of performance against stretching financial
the delivery of personal objectives. targets with the remainder of the bonus subject to a balanced
scorecard of strategic and individual targets which are aligned
The annual bonus financial targets are set by reference to
to the company’s key objectives for that financial year.
internal budget and external consensus targets.
Performance To incentivise and recognise delivery of the longer term business priorities, financial growth and
Share Plan (PSP) increases in shareholder value compared to other pharmaceutical companies. In addition, to
provide alignment with shareholder interests, a retention element, to encourage long-term
shareholding and discourage excessive risk taking.
Operation Opportunity
Conditional awards are made annually with vesting dependent The normal maximum award limits that may be granted under
on the achievement of performance conditions over three years the PSP to an individual in any one year are set out in the table
and are subject to an additional two-year holding period. PSP below:
targets are set by reference to internal budget and external % of salary
consensus targets. CEO 600
Awards are eligible for dividend equivalents up to the date of CFO 400
vesting and release. Other Executive Directors 500
The Committee may adjust the formulaic vesting outcome Performance measures
(either up or down) to ensure that the overall outcome reflects Based on a combination of financial, share price related and
underlying business performance over the vesting period. strategic performance conditions which are aligned to the
company’s strategic plan. For all measures*, 25% of awards
Clawback and/or malus provisions apply as described on
will vest at threshold performance. Further details, including
page 144 of the 2019 Annual Report.
the performance targets attached to the PSP in respect of each
year, and the weightings of the targets for the 2020 PSP awards
are provided in the Annual report on remuneration.
* W e announced in the 2018 Annual Report, that we were reducing the
threshold vesting level for our TSR measure to 25%, in order to align it
with our other performance measures.
Share Ownership Requirements
To align the interests of Executive Directors with those of As a minimum, Executive Directors are required to maintain
shareholders, they are required to build and maintain 100% of their share ownership requirements to the end of
significant holdings of shares in GSK over time. The the first year following retirement from the company and 50%
requirements for each Executive Director are as follows: to the end of the second year.
% salary
CEO 650
Other Executive Directors 300
For details of our policy on clawback/malus, recruitment remuneration, loss of office and termination payments, please refer to
the full 2020 Remuneration policy report on pages 140 to 149 of the 2019 Annual Report, available at gsk.com in the Investors
section.
GSK Annual Report 2020 1352020 Remuneration policy summary continued
Scenarios for future total remuneration
The charts opposite provide illustrations of the future total
remuneration for each of the Executive Directors in respect of Emma Walmsley (£000)
£14.61m
the remuneration opportunity granted to each of them in 2021
24%
under the approved 2020 Remuneration policy. A range of 14,000
potential outcomes is provided for each Executive Director and
the underlying assumptions are set out below. 12,000
£11.09m
All scenarios: 63% 48%
10,000
– 2021 base salary has been used.
– 2020 benefits figures have been used, i.e. based on actual 8,000
amounts received in 2020, and for Dr Hal Barron the 2020 £6.35m
pension figures. 6,000 56%
– Pensions for Emma Walmsley and Iain Mackay are based
upon their 2021 salaries. 4,000 22% 17%
19%
– The amounts shown under value of PSP awards are based 2,000 £1.61m
upon the relevant multiples for 2021. They do not include 100% 25% 15% 11%
amounts in respect of dividends reinvested and do not factor 0
Fixed Expected Maximum Maximum with
in changes in share price over the vesting period (except as share price
described below). increase
Fixed:
– Excludes Pay for performance, i.e. no Annual bonus would be
paid and PSP awards would not vest. Iain Mackay (£000)
Expected:
– Includes Fixed pay. 10,000
£8.33m
– For the Annual bonus, it is assumed that target performance
8,000 21%
is achieved.
£6.55m
– For PSP awards, amounts reflect 50% vesting levels. 6,000 54% 43%
Maximum:
4,000 £3.89m
– It is assumed that the Annual bonus would be payable at the
4466%%
maximum level and that the awards under the PSP would vest 27% 21%
2,000
in full. £1.22m 23%
100% 31% 19% 15%
Maximum with 50% share price increase: 0
– All elements are the same as Maximum but assuming a 50% Fixed Expected Maximum Maximum with
share price
increase in share price. increase
Dr Hal Barron ($000)
$20.43m
20,000 22%
16,000 $15.88m
57% 45%
12,000
$9.50m
8,000 48%
23% 18%
4,000 $3.13m 19%
100% 33% 20% 15%
0
Fixed Expected Maximum Maximum with
share price
increase
Fixed pay Annual bonus PSP 50% share price increase
136 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
2020 Remuneration policy summary continued
Non-Executive Director remuneration policy 2020
The company’s remuneration policy report was approved on Wednesday 6 May 2020 at GSK’s Annual General Meeting. The full
policy is available in the Investor section of gsk.com. The following is a summary of this policy.
Non-Executive Directors’ fees
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation
Chairman’s fees To provide an inclusive flat rate fee that is There is no formal maximum. However, fees are reviewed annually and set by reference
competitive with those paid by other to a review of the Chairman’s performance and independently sourced market data.
companies of equivalent size and
The Committee is responsible for evaluating and making recommendations to the Board
complexity subject to the limits contained
on the fees payable to the Chairman. The Chairman does not participate in discussions in
in GSK’s Articles of Association.
respect of his fees.
Fees are paid in cash. The Chairman is required to invest at least 25% of his total net
fees in shares or ADS of the company.
Basic fees As above There is no formal maximum. As with the Chairman, fees are reviewed annually and set by
reference to independently sourced data.
The Chairman and CEO are responsible for evaluating and making recommendations to
the Board on the fees payable to the company’s Non-Executive Directors.
Fees are paid in cash. Directors are required to invest at least 25% of their total net fees
in shares or ADS of the company. The shares or ADS are delivered or released following
retirement from the Board.
Supplemental To compensate Non-Executive Directors Additional fees for the Senior Independent Director, Committee Chairs, Scientific and
fees (other than the Chairman) for taking on Medical Experts, the Workforce Engagement Director role and intercontinental travel.
additional Board responsibilities or
The company has the authority to pay an additional fee, up to the equivalent of the
undertaking intercontinental travel.
Committee Chair supplement (£40,000 with effect from 1 January 2020) to a
Non-Executive Director, should the company require significant additional time
commitment in exceptional or unforeseen circumstances.
Benefits To facilitate execution of responsibilities Travel and subsistence costs for Non-Executive Directors are incurred in the normal
and duties required by the role. course of business in relation to meetings on Board and Committee matters and other
GSK-hosted events. For overseas-based Non-Executive Directors, this includes travel to
meetings in the UK. In the event it is necessary for business purposes, whilst not normal
practice, Non-Executive Directors may be accompanied by their spouse or partner to
these meetings or events. The costs associated with the above are all met by the
company and, in some instances, they are deemed to be taxable and therefore treated
as benefits for the Non-Executive Director.
Approach to recruitment remuneration
The following policy and principles apply to the roles of Non-Executive Directors
Chairman and Non-Executive Director. Fee levels for new Non-Executive Directors will be set on the
same basis as for existing Non-Executive Directors of the
Chairman
company. Subject to local laws and regulations, fees will be
Fees will be set at a level that is competitive with those paid by
paid partly in shares.
other companies of equivalent size and complexity. Fees will be
paid partly in shares. In the event of a Non-Executive Director with a different role and
responsibilities being appointed, fee levels will be benchmarked
and set by reference to comparable roles in companies of
equivalent size and complexity.
Loss of office
The Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to receive any payments in respect of fees for loss of office when
they retire or step down from the Board.
GSK Annual Report 2020 1372020 Remuneration policy summary continued
Operation and scope of Remuneration policy
The Remuneration policy (Policy) is set out on pages 141 to 150 (ii) before the Policy came into effect, provided that the terms
of the 2019 Annual Report and it is intended that the Policy for of the payment were consistent with the shareholder-approved
GSK’s Executive and Non-Executive Directors will operate for a Remuneration policy in force at the time they were agreed; or
period of three years from the date of approval at the company’s
(iii) at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of
Annual General Meeting on 6 May 2020.
the company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment
The Committee wrote the Policy principally in relation to the was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director
remuneration arrangements for the Executive Directors, whilst of the company. For these purposes ‘payments’ includes the
taking into account the possible recruitment of a replacement Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and,
or an additional Executive Director during the operation of the in relation to an award over shares or ADS, the terms of the
Policy. The Committee intends the Policy to operate for the payment are ‘agreed’ at the time the award is granted.
period set out above in its entirety. However, it may after due
Performance Share Plan (PSP) awards are subject to the
consideration seek to change the Policy during this period,
terms of the PSP plan rules under which the award has been
but only if it believes it is appropriate to do so for the long-term
granted. The Committee may adjust or amend awards only in
success of the company, after consultation with shareholders
accordance with the provisions of the plan rules. This includes
and having sought shareholder approval at a general meeting.
making adjustments to reflect one-off corporate events, such
The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration as a change in the company’s capital structure.
payments and/or payments for loss of office (including
The Committee may also make minor amendments to the Policy
exercising any discretions available to it in connection with
(for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes
such payments) notwithstanding that they are not in line with
or to take account of a change in legislation) without obtaining
the Policy where the terms of the payment were agreed:
shareholder approval for such amendments.
(i) before the AGM on 7 May 2014 (the date the company’s Statement of consideration of shareholder views
first shareholder-approved Directors’ remuneration policy came
The Committee engages in regular dialogue with shareholders
into effect);
and holds annual meetings with GSK’s largest investors to
discuss and take feedback on its Remuneration policy practices
and governance matters.
Basis of preparation
The Annual report on remuneration has been prepared in The Annual report on remuneration has been approved
accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and The Large by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by:
and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and
Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013 (the Regulations).
In accordance with the Regulations, the following parts of
Urs Rohner
the Annual report on remuneration are subject to audit: total Remuneration Committee Chairman
remuneration figures for Executive Directors including further
8 March 2021
details for each element of remuneration (salary, benefits,
pension, annual bonus and long-term incentive awards);
Non-Executive Directors’ fees and emoluments received in the
year; Directors’ interests in shares, including interests in GSK
share plans; payments to past Directors; payments for loss
of office; and share ownership requirements and holdings,
for which the opinion thereon is expressed on page 150. The
remaining sections of the Annual report on remuneration are
not subject to audit nor are the pages referred to from within
the audited sections.
138 GSK Annual Report 2020SSttrraatteeggiicc rreeppoorrtt
GGoovveerrnnaannccee aanndd rreemmuunneerraattiioonn
FFiinnaanncciiaall ssttaatteemmeennttss
IInnvveessttoorr iinnffoorrmmaattiioonn
Financial
statements
In this section
Directors’ statement of responsibilities 140
Independent Auditor’s report 142
Financial statements 154
Notes to the financial statements 158
Financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc
prepared under UK GAAP 238
GGSSKK AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22002200 113399Directors’ statement of responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting
the Remuneration report and the Group and parent company records that are sufficient to show and explain the company’s
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time
regulations. the financial position of the Group and to enable them to ensure
that the Group financial statements and the Remuneration
UK company law requires the Directors to prepare financial
report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of
statements for each financial year. The Directors are required
the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding
to prepare the Group consolidated financial statements in
the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards
for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
(IFRS), as adopted pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002
as it applies in the European Union. In preparing the Group The Group financial statements for the year ended
consolidated financial statements, the Directors have also 31 December 2020, comprising principal statements and
elected to comply with IFRS as issued by the International supporting notes, are set out in the ‘Financial statements’
Accounting Standards Board (IASB). The Directors have on pages 154 to 237 of this report. The parent company
elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2020,
accordance with United Kingdom Accounting Standards and comprising the balance sheet and the statement of changes in
applicable law (United Kingdom Generally Accepted equity for the year ended 31 December 2020 and supporting
Accounting Practice). Under company law the Directors must notes, are set out on pages 238 to 242.
not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied
The responsibilities of the auditor in relation to the financial
that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the
statements are set out in the Independent Auditor’s report on
Group and its profit or loss for that period.
pages 142 to 153.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are
The financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2020
required to:
are included in the Annual Report, which is published in printed
– select suitable accounting policies and then apply them form and made available on our website. The Directors are
consistently; responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Annual
Report on our website in accordance with UK legislation
– make judgements and accounting estimates that are
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial
reasonable and prudent;
statements. Access to the website is available from outside
– state that the Group financial statements comply with IFRS, the UK, where comparable legislation may be different.
as adopted pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 as
Each of the current Directors, whose names and functions are
it applies in the European Union, and IFRS as issued by
listed in the Corporate Governance section of the Annual
the IASB, subject to any material departures disclosed and
Report 2020 confirms that, to the best of his or her knowledge:
explained in the Group financial statements;
– the Group financial statements, which have been prepared
– state with regard to the parent company financial statements
in accordance with IFRS, as adopted pursuant to Regulation
that applicable UK Accounting Standards have been
(EC) No 1606/2002 as it applies in the European Union,
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and
and IFRS as issued by the IASB, give a true and fair view of
explained in the parent company financial statements; and
the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the
– prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis Group; and
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the
– the Strategic report and risk sections of the Annual Report,
parent company will continue in business.
which represent the management report, include a fair review
of the development and performance of the business and the
position of the company and the Group taken as a whole,
together with a description of the principal risks and
uncertainties that it faces.
140 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Directors’ statement of responsibilities continued
Disclosure of information to auditor The 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code
The Directors in office at the date of this Annual Report have The Board considers that GlaxoSmithKline plc applies the
each confirmed that: principles and complies with the provisions of the UK Corporate
Governance Code maintained by the Financial Reporting
– so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit
Council, as described in the Corporate Governance section
information of which the company’s auditor is unaware; and
on pages 77 to 110. The Board further considers that the
– he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and
taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any understandable, and provides the information necessary for
relevant audit information and to establish that the company’s shareholders to assess the Group’s position and performance,
auditor is aware of that information. business model and strategy.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in As required by the Financial Conduct Authority’s Listing Rules,
accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the the auditor has considered the Directors’ statement of
Companies Act 2006. compliance in relation to those points of the UK Corporate
Going concern basis Governance Code which are specified for their review.
Pages 51 to 76 contain information on the performance of Annual Report
the Group, its financial position, cash flows, net debt position The Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2020,
and borrowing facilities. Further information, including Treasury comprising the Report of the Directors, the Remuneration
risk management policies, exposures to market and credit risk report, the Financial statements and Additional information
and hedging activities, is given in Note 43 to the financial for investors, has been approved by the Board of Directors
statements, ‘Financial instruments and related disclosures’. and signed on its behalf by
Having assessed the principal risks and other matters
considered in connection with the viability statement, the
Sir Jonathan Symonds
Directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern
Chairman
basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
Internal control 8 March 2021
The Board, through the Audit & Risk Committee, has reviewed
the assessment of risks and the internal control framework that
operates in GSK and has considered the effectiveness of the
system of internal control in operation in the Group for the year
covered by this Annual Report and up to the date of its approval
by the Board of Directors.
GSK Annual Report 2020 141Independent Auditor’s report to the members
of GlaxoSmithKline plc
Report on the audit of the financial statements
1. Opinion 2. Basis for opinion
In our opinion: We conducted our audit in accordance with International
Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and applicable law. Our
– The financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc (the ‘Parent
responsibilities under those standards are further described in
company’) and its subsidiaries (the ‘Group’) give a true and
the auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial
fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the Parent
statements section of our report.
company’s affairs as at 31 December 2020 and of the
Group’s profit for the year then ended; We are independent of the Group and the Parent company in
accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to
– The Group financial statements have been properly prepared
our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the
in accordance with international accounting standards in
Financial Reporting Council’s (the ‘FRC’s’) Ethical Standard as
conformity with the requirements of the Companies Act
applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our
2006, International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as
other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these
adopted by the European Union and IFRSs as issued by the
requirements. We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited
International Accounting Standards Board (IASB);
by the FRC’s Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group
– The Parent company financial statements have been properly or the Parent company, as noted in the Audit & Risk Committee
prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally report within the Corporate Governance section of the Annual
Accepted Accounting Practice including FRS 101 “Reduced Report on page 101.
Disclosure Framework”; and
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is
– The financial statements have been prepared in accordance sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as
3. Audit scope and execution
regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS
Regulation. We structured our approach to the audit to reflect how the
We have audited the financial statements which comprise the: Group is organised as well as ensuring our audit was both
effective and risk focused. Our audit approach can be
Group
summarised into the following areas that enabled us to obtain
– Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2020; the evidence required to form an opinion on the Group and
– Consolidated income statement for the year then ended; Parent company financial statements:
– Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the – Risk assessment and audit planning at a Group level.
year then ended; The central control and common systems throughout most of
the Group enabled us to structure our audit centrally. The use
– Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year
then ended; of data analytic tools allowed for a more detailed understanding
of the flow of transactions, enabling us to focus our risk
– Consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended;
assessment and design targeted audit testing procedures.
and
Our risk assessment procedures considered the impact of the
– Notes 1 to 46 to the financial statements, which includes the
global pandemic on the account balances, disclosures and
accounting principles and policies.
company practices. In addition to appointing partners for each
Parent company of the three businesses, we also had partners coordinate the
component and legal entity audits in each country. These
– Balance sheet as at 31 December 2020;
global business partners met regularly with the relevant
– Statement of changes in equity for the year then ended; and management to understand strategy and matters which arose
– Notes A to M to the financial statements, which includes the throughout the year that could have impacted the financial
accounting principles and policies. reporting. The regular meetings we had with members of the
Internal Audit, the internal Legal Counsel and the Global Ethics
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the & Compliance teams allowed us to understand their work and
preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law to review their reports to enhance our risk assessment;
and international accounting standards in conformity with the
– Audit work performed at global shared service centres.
requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and IFRSs as
A significant amount of the Group’s operational processes that
adopted by the European Union and as issued by the IASB.
cover financial reporting are undertaken in shared service
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the
centres. Our Group audit team that included senior individuals
preparation of the Parent company financial statements is
responsible for each of the global processes, coordinated our
applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards,
audit work at the shared service centres in scope for the Group
including FRS 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework” (United
audit, to ensure we developed a good understanding of the
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
end-to-end view of the key processes that supported material
account balances, classes of transactions and disclosures
within the Group financial statements.
142 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Independent Auditor’s report continued
Report on the audit of the financial statements continued
We then evaluated the effectiveness of internal controls over 4. Our application of materiality
financial reporting for these processes and considered the
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the
implications for the remainder of our audit work;
financial statements that makes it probable that the economic
– Audit work executed at component level and individual decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be
legal entities. The following components were subject to changed or influenced. We use materiality both in planning the
audit procedures as well as the assessment of the internal scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our
controls over financial reporting: Australia; Belgium; Canada; work.
China; France; Germany; Italy; Japan; Spain; Switzerland;
Based on our professional judgement, we determined
United Kingdom and United States. The Group audit team
materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows:
was in active dialogue throughout the audit with the
component audit teams responsible for the audit work under Parent company
the direction and supervision of the Group audit team. This Group financial statements financial statements
included determining whether the work was planned and Materiality £290 million £68 million
(2019 – £275 million) (2019 – £68 million)
performed in accordance with the overall Group audit
Basis for In determining our benchmark Materiality was
strategy and the requirements of our Group audit instructions
determining for materiality we considered determined using the
to the components. Due to restrictions on overseas travel we
materiality the metrics used by investors total assets benchmark.
did not visit the components this year, as we did in the prior and other readers of the financial
year. To satisfy ourselves that our oversight and supervision statements. In particular, we
was appropriate we have performed remote reviews over considered: Statutory profit
before tax, Adjusted profit before
videoconferencing, we have increased the frequency and
tax, Revenue and Net cash flows
length of those reviews depending on the significance and from operations.
risk of the component and we have continued to attend the
Using professional judgement we
planning and clearance meetings of components to engage have determined materiality to be
with local management; £290 million.
– Audit procedures undertaken at a Group level and on the Metric %
Parent company. In addition to the above, we also performed Statutory profit before tax 4.2%
audit work on the Group and Parent company financial Adjusted profit before tax* 3.6%
statements, including but not limited to the consolidation of Revenue 0.9%
Net cash inflow from
the Group’s results, the preparation of the financial 3.4%
operating activities
statements, certain disclosures within the directors’
* A reconciliation between the Statutory
remuneration report, litigation provisions and exposures in
profit before tax and Adjusted profit
addition to management’s entity level and oversight controls before tax is detailed in the Adjusting
relevant to financial reporting. All components or legal entities Items section of the strategic report.
with annual revenue greater than 1.8% of the total Group Rationale Given the importance of the above The Parent company
revenue were included in our audit scope. The components or for the metrics used by investors and other holds the Group’s
legal entities not covered by our audit scope are subject to benchmark readers of the financial statements, investments and is not
applied we concluded statutory profit in itself profit-oriented.
analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there
before tax to be the primary The strength of the
were no significant risks of material misstatement in the benchmark with adjusted profit balance sheet is the key
aggregated financial information; and before tax, revenue and net cash measure of financial
inflow from operating activities the health that is important
– Internal controls testing approach. We tested internal
supporting benchmarks. to shareholders since
controls over financial reporting across all in-scope entities The component materiality allocated the primary concern for
and entity level controls at the Group level. Common systems to the in-scope components ranged the Parent company is
allowed for relevant IT controls to be tested centrally across all between £87 million and the payment of
components. We were able to place reliance on controls £203 million. dividends. Using a
benchmark of total
where planned and it was more efficient. Notwithstanding the The range of materiality allocated assets is therefore the
IT controls deficiencies disclosed in the key audit matters across components in the audit of appropriate metric.
the prior year’s Group financial
section of this report, mitigating controls existed which allowed
statements was between
us to continue to take reliance on controls where planned. £82.5 million and £192.5 million.
Our audit scope addressed 74% of the Group’s revenue,
74% of the Group’s profit before tax and 89% of the Group’s
total assets.
GSK Annual Report 2020 143Independent Auditor’s report continued
Report on the audit of the financial statements continued
We set performance materiality at a level lower than materiality Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified
to reduce the probability that, in aggregate, uncorrected and any material uncertainties relating to events or conditions that,
undetected misstatements exceed the materiality for the individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the
financial statements as a whole. Group and Parent company Group’s and Parent company’s ability to continue as a going
performance materiality was set at 70% of Group and Parent concern for a period of at least twelve months from when the
materiality respectively for the 2020 audit (2019: 70%). In financial statements are authorised for issue.
determining performance materiality, we considered factors
In relation to the reporting on how the Group has applied the
including:
UK Corporate Governance Code, we have nothing material to
– Our risk assessment, including our assessment of the add or draw attention to in relation to the directors’ statement in
Group’s overall control environment and that we consider the financial statements about whether the directors considered
it appropriate to rely on controls over a number of business it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting.
processes; and
Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the directors with
– Our past experience of the audit, which has indicated a respect to going concern are described in the relevant sections
low number of corrected and uncorrected misstatements of this report.
identified in prior periods.
We agreed with the Audit & Risk Committee that we would
report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of
£10 million (2019 – £10 million) as well as any differences
below this threshold, which in our view, warranted reporting
on qualitative grounds. We also report to the Audit & Risk
Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when
assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
5. Conclusions relating to going concern
In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the
directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting in the
preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.
Our evaluation of the directors’ assessment of the Group’s and
Parent company’s ability to continue to adopt the going concern
basis of accounting included:
– Enquiring of management regarding the assumptions used in
the going concern models;
– Evaluating the Group’s existing access to sources of
financing, including undrawn committed bank facilities;
– Reading analyst reports, industry data and other external
information to determine if it provided corroborative or
contradictory evidence in relation to management’s
assumptions;
– Comparing forecasted sales to recent historical financial
information;
– Testing the underlying data generated to prepare the forecast
scenarios and determined whether there was adequate
support for the assumptions underlying the forecast; and
– Evaluating the Group’s disclosures on going concern against
the requirements of IAS 1.
144 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Independent Auditor’s report continued
6. Key audit matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial
statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement (whether or not due to
fraud) that we identified. These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy; the allocation of
resources in the audit; and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon,
and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter
Valuation of the ViiV Healthcare Shionogi contingent Audit procedures performed
consideration liability We performed the following audit procedures, amongst others,
In recent years the Group has completed a number of significant related to the sales forecasts:
transactions which resulted in the recognition of material
– Challenged management’s evidence through enquiries of key
contingent consideration liabilities, which are a key source of
individuals from the senior leadership team, commercial strategy
estimation uncertainty. The most significant of these liabilities
team and key personnel involved in the budgeting and
was the ViiV Healthcare Shionogi Contingent Consideration
forecasting process, and obtained objective evidence with
Liability (“ViiV CCL”).
respect to key inputs and assumptions;
The Group completed the acquisition of the remaining 50%
– Challenged the US volume assumptions made by management
interest in the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture in 2012.
to estimate sales forecasts. This involved benchmarking market
Upon completion, the Group recognised a contingent
share data against external data, such as total prescription
consideration liability for the fair value of the expected future
volumes and new patient prescription volumes, in order to assess
payments to be made to Shionogi. As at 31 December 2020
for any sources of contradictory evidence;
the liability was valued at £5,359 million.
– Challenged the reasonableness of US pricing assumptions made
We identified the ViiV CCL as a key audit matter because of
by management, by comparing the forecasted Returns and
the significant estimates and assumptions management makes
Rebates rate by product against the current rate, and assessing
related to the sales forecasts used in valuing the ViiV CCL and
the forecasted Returns and Rebates against comparable
the sensitivity of the valuation to these inputs. The most
products and expected changes in payer policy;
significant of these relate to sales forecasts in the United States
(US) on certain products in the treatment portfolio. Such – Reviewed the results of clinical studies undertaken in the year
forecasts are based on management’s assessment of the by management and key competitors in order to assess whether
expected launch dates, the ability to shift market practice and these are corroborative or contradictory to management’s
prescriber behaviour towards 2-drug regimens, and subsequent assumptions on the treatment product portfolio sales forecasts
sales volumes and pricing. The forecasts also required in the US;
significant audit effort to perform appropriate audit procedures
– Benchmarked management’s sales forecasts against those
to challenge and evaluate the reasonableness of those
included in reports from 16 analysts and considered sales
forecasts.
forecasts on both a total ViiV basis and an individual product
Contingent consideration liabilities, including the ViiV CCL, are basis; and
disclosed as a key source of estimation uncertainty in Note 3 of
– Tested the controls over the key inputs and assumptions used in
the Group financial statements with further disclosures provided
the valuation of the contingent consideration liability, including
in Notes 28, 32 and 43. The matter is also discussed in the
management review controls over the sales forecasts of the
Audit & Risk Committee report within the Corporate
treatment product portfolio used to value the ViiV CCL.
Governance section of the Annual Report.
Key observations communicated to the Audit & Risk Committee
The underlying sales forecasts used in the valuation are reasonable
and in line with both internal supporting data and external evidence
such as analyst forecasts. We are satisfied that the sales forecasts
have been updated in the year to reflect appropriately both actual
performance in 2020 and changes in the overall HIV treatment
market.
The approach to valuing the ViiV CCL was consistent with prior
periods and overall we are satisfied that the valuation liability is
reasonable and consistent with IFRS.
GSK Annual Report 2020 145Independent Auditor’s report continued
Report on the audit of the financial statements continued
Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter
Valuation of US Returns and Rebates (RAR) accruals Audit procedures performed
In the US the Group sells to customers under various commercial We performed the following audit procedures, amongst others,
and government mandated contracts and reimbursement related to management estimates in the RAR accruals:
arrangements that include rebates, chargebacks and a right of
– Challenged management’s assumptions for a selection of
return for certain pharmaceutical products. As such, revenue
utilisation rates, focusing on certain products where we
recognition reflects gross-to-net sales adjustments. These
concluded the accrual is most sensitive to these assumptions.
adjustments are known as the Returns and Rebates (“RAR”)
Our challenge included comparison to historical utilisation rates,
accruals and are a source of significant estimation uncertainty
consideration of historical accuracy and drivers of market
which could have a material impact on reported revenue.
changes such as the impact of ongoing generic competition and
The three most significant payer channels (also referred to as the macroeconomic impacts from the COVID-19 pandemic;
buying groups) within the RAR accrual are managed healthcare
– Supplemented this with substantive analytical procedures by
organisations, Medicaid and Medicare Part D.
developing an independent expectation of the accrual balance
The two main causes of significant estimation uncertainty are: for each of the key segments, based on historical claims received
adjusted to reflect market changes in the period including an
– The utilisation rate, which is the portion of total sales that will be
assessment of the time lag between the initial point of sale and
made into each payer channel, estimated by management in
the claim receipt. We then compared this independent
recording the accruals. The utilisation assumption is the most
expectation to those of management to evaluate the
challenging of the key assumptions used to derive the accrual
appropriateness of management’s ending accrual position;
given that it is influenced by market demand and other factors
outside the control of the Group; and – Considered the historical accuracy of management’s estimates
and evaluated whether management had appropriately updated
– The time lag between the point of sale and the point at which
their forecast assumptions in a selection of cases where the
exact rebate amounts are known to the Group upon receipt of
actual rebate claims differed to the amount accrued;
a claim. Those payer channels with the longest time lag result
in a greater accrued period, and therefore, a greater level of – Challenged the appropriateness of, and completeness of,
estimation uncertainty in estimating the period end accrual. period-end adjustments to the liability made by management as
part of the ongoing review of the estimated accrual; and
The level of estimation uncertainty is also impacted by significant
shifts in channel mix often driven by changes in the competitive – Tested the key controls over the estimation of RAR accruals
landscape, including competitor and generic product launches including the controls associated with the forecasting of
and other macroeconomic factors. As such, we focus on the utilisation rates process and the month-end accrual review
utilisation assumptions for those products where we deem the controls.
level of estimation uncertainty to be the most significant.
Key observations communicated to the Audit & Risk Committee
Furthermore, auditing standards presume that a significant fraud
We are satisfied that management’s estimated liability of the RAR
risk exists in revenue recognition. In line with this presumption,
accruals at the year end are appropriate. We observed prudence
we also focus on the period-end adjustments management made
when assessing certain key assumptions against our own
to the RAR accruals. These adjustments reflected updates made
independent expectations and the historical accuracy of prior year
by management to the initial assumptions included within the
estimates against actual rebates but were satisfied that these are
forecasted RAR rates and, in our view, present the greatest
reasonable and in accordance with the requirements of ‘IFRS 15
opportunity for fraud in revenue recognition (notwithstanding the
Revenue from contracts with customers’.
existence of internal controls).
In the US Pharmaceuticals business in 2020 $17,343 million of
RAR deductions were made to gross revenue of $31,744 million,
resulting in net revenue of $14,401 million. The balance sheet
accrual at 31 December 2020 for the combined US
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines businesses amounted to
$6,394 million.
US Pharmaceuticals returns and rebates are disclosed as a key
source of estimation uncertainty in Note 3 of the Group financial
statements with further disclosures provided in Note 28. The
matter is also discussed in the Audit & Risk Committee report
within the Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report.
146 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Independent Auditor’s report continued
Report on the audit of the financial statements continued
Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter
Valuation of other intangible assets Audit procedures performed
As at 31 December 2020, the Group held £28,771 million of We performed the following audit procedures, amongst others,
other intangible assets (including licences, patents, trademarks related to the future sales growth, likelihood of successful new
and brand names, but excluding goodwill and computer product innovations and profit margin levels used in the assessment
software). The recoverable amount of these other intangible of other intangible assets for impairment:
assets relies on certain assumptions and estimates of future
– Met with the key individuals from the senior leadership team,
trading performance which create estimation uncertainty.
product category leads and key personnel involved in the
The assets most at risk of material impairment were identified forecasting process to discuss and evaluate management’s
using sensitivity analysis on key assumptions and a review of evidence to support future sales growth rates and profitability
potential triggering events that could be indicative of an assumptions;
impairment in the carrying value of associated assets. As a
– Challenged the business assumptions applied by management
result of this analysis, we performed additional audit procedures
in estimating sales forecasts, including the macroeconomic
on certain indefinite life Consumer Healthcare intangible assets
impacts resulting from the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic.
acquired from Pfizer in 2019.
This involved benchmarking of sales forecasts and product
Key assumptions applied by management in determining the compound annual growth rates to external data for the specific
recoverable amount include the future sales growth rates and market segments;
profit margin levels, as well as the likelihood of successful new
– Evaluated independent market research to corroborate expected
product innovations. Changes in these assumptions could lead
category growth rates and assessed any sources of
to an impairment of the carrying value of the other intangible
contradictory evidence;
assets.
– Compared the forecast sales to the plan data (asset by asset
We identified the valuation of other intangible assets as a key
internal forecasts) approved by senior management and the
audit matter due to the inherent judgements involved in
Board of directors;
estimating future cash flows. During the year there was
increased uncertainty brought about by the COVID-19 – Assessed the historical accuracy of management’s forecasts
pandemic and associated lockdowns. Auditing such estimates including consumption data and estimates of new sales from
required extensive audit effort to challenge and evaluate the innovation;
reasonableness of forecasts.
– Considered whether events or transactions that occurred after
The disclosures relating to other intangible assets are included the balance sheet date but before the reporting date affect the
in Note 20 and 40 of the Group financial statements. The matter conclusions reached on the carrying values of the assets and
is also discussed in the Audit & Risk Committee report within associated disclosures; and
the Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report.
– Tested management review controls over the key inputs and
assumptions used in the valuation of other intangible assets,
including controls over review of the revenue growth rates and
profit margins.
Key observations communicated to the Audit & Risk Committee
Our audit challenged the future forecast performance of consumer
healthcare products, including the potential adverse impact of the
COVID-19 pandemic, and we concluded that the assumptions
underpinning the impairment review of intangible assets were
reasonable and in accordance with IFRS.
GSK Annual Report 2020 147Independent Auditor’s report continued
Report on the audit of the financial statements continued
Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter
Valuation of uncertain tax positions, including transfer Audit procedures performed
pricing With the support of tax specialists, we assessed the
The Group operates in numerous jurisdictions and there are appropriateness of the uncertain tax provisions by performing the
open tax and transfer pricing matters and exposures with UK, following audit procedures amongst others:
US and overseas tax authorities that give rise to uncertain tax
– Assessed and challenged provisions for uncertain tax positions,
positions. There is a range of possible outcomes for provisions
and focused our work on those jurisdictions where the Group
and contingencies and management are required to make
has the greatest potential exposure and where the highest level
certain judgements in respect of estimates of tax exposures
of judgement is required;
and contingencies in order to assess the adequacy of tax
provisions, which are sometimes complex as a result of the – Assessed management’s policies for recognition and
considerations required over multiple tax laws and regulations. measurement of uncertain tax positions for compliance with
the guidance per IFRIC 23;
At 31 December 2020, the Group has recorded provisions of
£856 million in respect of uncertain tax positions. – Involved our transfer pricing specialists to review the transfer
pricing methodology of the Group and associated approach
Valuation of uncertain tax positions is disclosed as a key source
to provisioning;
of estimation uncertainty in Note 3 of the Group financial
statements with further disclosures included in Note 14. The – Involved our UK, US and international tax and transfer pricing
matter is also discussed in the Audit & Risk Committee report specialists to challenge the conclusions reached by
within the Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report. management, both in relation to the expected outcome and the
financial impact;
– Considered evidence such as the actual results from the recent
tax authority audits and enquiries, third-party tax advice where
obtained and our tax specialists’ own knowledge of market
practice in relevant jurisdictions; and
– Tested key controls over preparation, review and reporting of
judgmental tax balances and transactions, which include
provisions for uncertain tax provisions.
Key observations communicated to the Audit & Risk Committee
We are satisfied that management’s estimates in relation to
uncertain tax positions and the related disclosures are in
accordance with IFRS. From our work we concluded that
management have applied a consistent approach to estimating
uncertain tax provisions, the judgements continue to be prudent
and are appropriately recorded.
148 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Independent Auditor’s report continued
Report on the audit of the financial statements continued
Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter
IT systems which impact financial reporting Audit procedures performed
The IT systems within the Group form a critical component of Our IT audit scope is driven by the level of reliance placed on
the Group’s financial reporting activities and impact all account Technology to obtain assurance within a business process. The
balances. Technology deemed relevant to the audit is based on the financial
data, system configured automated controls and/or key financial
We identified the IT systems that impact financial reporting as
reports that reside within it. We utilised IT specialists to support our
a key audit matter because of the:
evaluation of the risks associated with Technology and with the
– Pervasive reliance on complex technology that is integral to testing of the design and operation of IT controls.
the operation of key business processes and financial
Testing over the in scope Technology was performed to address
reporting;
the group’s control objectives and financial reporting risks and
– Reliance on technology which continues to increase in line included testing in the following areas:
with the business strategy, such as the increase in the use
– General IT Controls , including user access and change
of automation across the Group;
management controls;
– Importance of the IT controls in maintaining an effective
– Key financial reports and system configured automated controls;
control environment. A key interdependency exists between
the ability to rely on IT controls and the ability to rely on – Controls to provide assurance over the completeness and
financial data, system configured automated controls and accuracy of relevant data migrations; and
system reports;
– Testing of management’s remediation of previously identified
– Continued remediation of IT controls supporting the in scope deficiencies.
application systems; and;
Our risk assessment procedures included an assessment of the
– The implementation of application systems in key business impact of all unremediated IT control deficiencies to determine the
areas during the year. impact on our audit plan. Where relevant, the audit plan was
adjusted to include the testing of additional manual business
IT controls, in the context of our scope for the financial audit,
process controls to mitigate the unaddressed IT risk.
primarily relate to user access security and change control. The
Group continue to implement their programme of remediation Key observations communicated to the Audit & Risk Committee
across the IT landscape of deficiencies identified in prior years,
We are satisfied that IT controls impacting the Group’s financial
which has been extended into 2021.
reporting activities are designed and operating effectively or control
IT systems which impact financial reporting are discussed in deficiencies identified were remediated by year end or mitigated by
the Audit & Risk Committee report within the Corporate compensating controls.
Governance section of the Annual Report.
Management continue to make significant progress in the year in
remediating control deficiencies relating to user access and
change management. The Group has many layers of business
process controls to mitigate the risk associated with the IT control
deficiencies.
GSK Annual Report 2020 149Independent Auditor’s report continued
Report on the audit of the financial statements continued
7. Other information
The other information comprises the information included in the Annual Report, other than the financial statements and our auditor’s
report thereon. The directors are responsible for the other information contained within the Annual Report.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in
our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent
with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in course of the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether this gives rise
to a material misstatement in the financial statements themselves. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there
is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard
We summarise below our work in relation to areas of the other information including those areas upon which we are specifically
required to report:
Matters we are specifically required to report
Our responsibility Our reporting
Principal risks and viability statement
Review the confirmation and description in the light of the knowledge As set out in the section “Corporate governance
gathered during the audit, such as through considering the directors’ statement”, we have nothing material to report, add or
processes to support the statements made, challenging management’s key draw attention to in respect of these matters.
judgements and estimates, consideration of historical forecasting accuracy
and evaluating macro-economic assumptions.
Consider if the statements are aligned with the relevant provisions of
the Code.
Directors’ Remuneration report
Report whether the part of the directors’ remuneration report to be audited As set out in the section “Opinions on other matters
is properly prepared and the disclosures specified by the Companies Act prescribed by the Companies Act 2006”, in our opinion,
have been made. the part of the directors’ remuneration report to be
audited has been prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 2006.
Strategic report and directors’ report
Report whether they are consistent with the audited financial statements As set out in the section “Opinions on other matters
and are prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements. prescribed by the Companies Act 2006”, in our opinion,
based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit,
Report if we have identified any material misstatements in either report in
the information in these reports is consistent with the
the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and of the
audited financial statements and has been prepared in
Parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
accordance with applicable legal requirements.
150 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Independent Auditor’s report continued
Report on the audit of the financial statements continued
Other reporting on other information
Our responsibility Our reporting
Alternative performance measures (APMs)
APMs are measures that are not defined by generally accepted accounting In our opinion:
practice (GAAP) and therefore are not typically included in the financial
– the use, calculation and disclosure of APMs is
statement part of the Annual Report. The Group use APMs, such as adjusted
consistent with the Group’s published definitions and
profit, free cash flow and constant currency growth rates in some of its
policies;
quarterly and annual reporting of financial performance.
– the use of APMs in the Group’s reporting results is
We have reviewed and assessed management’s calculation and reporting of
consistent with the guidelines produced by ESMA and
these metrics to assess consistency with the Group’s published definitions
FRC; and
and policies for these items.
– there is an appropriate balance between the use of
We have also considered and assessed whether the use of APMs in the
statutory metrics and APMs, together with clear
Group’s reporting results is consistent with the guidelines produced by
definitions and reconciliation for APMs used in financial
regulators such as the European Securities and Markets Authority (“ESMA”)
reporting.
guidelines on the use of APMs and the FRC Alternative Performance Measures
Thematic Review published in November 2017.
We also considered whether there was an appropriate balance between the
use of statutory metrics and APMs, in addition to whether clear definitions
and reconciliation for APMs used in financial reporting have been provided.
Dividends and distribution policy
Consider whether the dividends policy is transparent and the dividends In our opinion, the dividends policy is appropriately
paid are consistent with the policy as outlined in the strategic report on disclosed and dividends paid are consistent with the
page 63. policy.
8. Responsibilities of directors 9. Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the
financial statements
As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities
statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about
the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a whether the financial statements as a whole are free from
true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to
determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable
statements that are free from material misstatement, whether assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee
due to fraud or error. that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will
always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered
responsible for assessing the Group’s and the Parent
material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably
company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as
be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken
applicable, matters related to going concern and using the
on the basis of these financial statements.
going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either
intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent company or to cease A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the
operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so. financial statements is located on the FRC’s website at:
www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms
part of our auditor’s report.
GSK Annual Report 2020 151Independent Auditor’s report continued
Report on the audit of the financial statements continued
10. Extent to which the audit was considered Audit response to risks identified
capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud As a result of performing the above, we identified the Valuation
of US Returns and Rebates accruals as a key audit matter
Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance
related to the potential risk of fraud. The key audit matters
with laws and regulations. We design procedures in line with
section of our report explains the matter in more detail and also
our responsibilities, outlined above, to detect material
describes the specific procedures in response to that key audit
misstatements in respect of irregularities, including fraud. The
matter. In common with all audits under ISAs (UK), we are also
extent to which our procedures are capable of detecting
required to perform specific procedures to respond to the risk
irregularities, including fraud is detailed below.
of management override.
Identifying and assessing potential risks related to In addition to the above, our procedures to respond to risks
irregularities identified included the following:
In identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement in
– Reviewing the financial statement disclosures and testing
respect of irregularities, including fraud and non-compliance
to supporting documentation to assess compliance with
with laws and regulations, we considered the following:
provisions of relevant laws and regulations described as
– The nature of the industry and sector, control environment having a direct effect on the financial statements;
and business performance including the design of the
– Enquiring of management, the Audit & Risk Committee and
Group’s remuneration policies, key drivers for directors’
in-house and external legal counsel concerning actual and
remuneration, bonus levels and performance targets;
potential litigation and claims;
– Enquiring of management, internal audit and the Audit & Risk
– Performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual or
Committee, including obtaining and reviewing supporting
unexpected relationships that may indicate risks of material
documentation, concerning the Group’s policies and
misstatement due to fraud; and
procedures relating to:
– Reading minutes of meetings of those charged with
– Identifying, evaluating and complying with laws and
governance, reviewing internal audit reports and
regulations and whether they were aware of any instances
correspondence with regulators.
of non-compliance;
– In addressing the risk of fraud through management override
– Detecting and responding to the risks of fraud and whether
of controls, testing the appropriateness of journal entries and
they have knowledge of any actual, suspected or alleged
other adjustments; assessing whether the judgements made
fraud;
in making accounting estimates are indicative of a potential
– The internal controls established to mitigate risks related bias; and evaluating the business rationale of any significant
to fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations. transactions that are unusual or outside the normal course of
business.
– Discussing among the engagement team including significant
component audit teams and involving relevant internal We also communicated relevant identified laws and regulations
specialists, including tax, valuations, pensions, IT and industry and potential fraud risks to all engagement team members and
specialists regarding how and where fraud might occur in the significant component audit teams, and remained alert to any
financial statements and any potential indicators of fraud; and; indications of fraud or non-compliance with laws and
regulations throughout the audit.
– Obtaining an understanding of the legal and regulatory
frameworks that the Group operates in, focusing on those
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements
laws and regulations that had a direct effect on the financial
statements, such as provisions of the UK Companies Act, 11. Opinions on other matters prescribed by
pensions legislation and tax legislation or that had a
the Companies Act 2006
fundamental effect on the operations of the Group, including
the Good Clinical Practice, the FDA regulations, General In our opinion, the part of the directors’ remuneration report to
Data Protection requirements, Anti-bribery and corruption be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the
policy and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of
the audit:
– The information given in the strategic report and the directors’
report for the financial year for which the financial statements
are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and
– The strategic report and the directors’ report have been
prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
152 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Independent Auditor’s report continued
Report on the audit of the financial statements continued
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group Directors’ remuneration
and of the Parent company and their environment obtained in Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report
the course of the audit, we have not identified any material if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration
misstatements in the strategic report or the directors’ report. have not been made or the part of the directors’ remuneration
report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting
12. Corporate governance statement
records and returns.
The Listing Rules require us to review the directors’ statement in
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
relation to going concern, longer-term viability and that part of
the corporate governance statement relating to the Group’s 14. Other matters which we are required to
compliance with the provisions of the UK corporate governance address
code specified for our review.
Auditor tenure
Based on the work undertaken as part of our audit, we have
Following the recommendation of the Audit & Risk Committee,
concluded that each of the following elements of the Corporate
with effect from 1 January 2018 we were appointed by the
Governance Statement is materially consistent with the financial
Board of Directors to audit the financial statements for the year
statements and our knowledge obtained during the audit:
ended 31 December 2018 and subsequent financial periods.
– the directors’ statement with regards to the appropriateness The period of total uninterrupted engagement of the firm is
of adopting the going concern basis of accounting and any 3 years.
material uncertainties identified set out on page 141;
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to
– the directors’ explanation as to its assessment of the Group’s
the Audit & Risk Committee
prospects, the period this assessment covers and why the
Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the
period is appropriate is set out on page 48;
Audit & Risk Committee we are required to provide in
– the directors’ statement on fair, balanced and understandable accordance with ISAs (UK).
Annual Report set out on page 102;
15. Use of our report
– the board’s confirmation that it has carried out a robust
This report is made solely to the Parent company’s members,
assessment of the emerging and principal risks set out on
as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the
pages 43 to 45;
Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so
– the section of the Annual Report that describes the review that we might state to the Parent company’s members those
of effectiveness of risk management and internal control matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report
systems set out on pages 98 to 99; and and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law,
– the section describing the work of the audit & risk committee we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than
set out on pages 97 to 102. the Parent company and the Parent company’s members as a
body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we
13. Matters on which we are required to report by
have formed.
exception
The Parent company has passed a resolution in accordance
Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records with section 506 of the Companies Act 2006 that the senior
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to statutory auditor’s name should not be stated.
you if, in our opinion:
– We have not received all the information and explanations
we require for our audit;
– Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the
Parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not
been received from branches not visited by us; or
– The Parent company financial statements are not in Deloitte LLP
agreement with the accounting records and returns. Statutory Auditor
London, United Kingdom
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
8 March 2021
GSK Annual Report 2020 153Consolidated income statement
for the year ended 31 December 2020
2020 2019 2018
Notes £m £m £m
Turnover 6 34,099 33,754 30,821
Cost of sales (11,704) (11,863) (10,241)
Gross profit 22,395 21,891 20,580
Selling, general and administration (11,456) (11,402) (9,915)
Research and development (5,098) (4,568) (3,893)
Royalty income 318 351 299
Other operating income/(expense) 7 1,624 689 (1,588)
Operating profit 8 7,783 6,961 5,483
Finance income 11 44 98 81
Finance expense 12 (892) (912) (798)
Profit on disposal of interest in associates – – 3
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures 13 33 74 31
Profit before taxation 6,968 6,221 4,800
Taxation 14 (580) (953) (754)
Profit after taxation for the year 6,388 5,268 4,046
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 639 623 423
Profit attributable to shareholders 5,749 4,645 3,623
6,388 5,268 4,046
Basic earnings per share (pence) 15 115.5p 93.9p 73.7p
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 15 114.1p 92.6p 72.9p
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
for the year ended 31 December 2020
2020 2019 2018
£m £m £m
Profit for the year 6,388 5,268 4,046
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges 37 (59) (832) (480)
Reclassification of exchange movements on liquidation or disposal of overseas subsidiaries 37 36 (75) –
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges (19) (20) 140
Tax on fair value movements on cash flow hedges (18) 16 (22)
Reclassification of cash flow hedges to income statement 54 3 (175)
Deferred tax reversed on reclassification of cash flow hedges – – 20
(6) (908) (517)
Items that will not be reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets of non-controlling interests 37 (34) (75) (1)
Fair value movements on equity investments 1,348 372 180
Tax on fair value movements on equity investments (220) (95) 10
Remeasurement (losses)/gains on defined benefit plans (187) (1,050) 728
Tax on remeasurement of defined benefit plans 69 189 (146)
976 (659) 771
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year 37 970 (1,567) 254
Total comprehensive income for the year 7,358 3,701 4,300
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to:
Shareholders 6,753 3,153 3,878
Non-controlling interests 605 548 422
Total comprehensive income for the year 7,358 3,701 4,300
154 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Consolidated balance sheet
as at 31 December 2020
2020 2019
Notes £m £m
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 17 10,176 10,348
Right of use assets 18 830 966
Goodwill 19 10,597 10,562
Other intangible assets 20 29,824 30,955
Investments in associates and joint ventures 21 364 314
Other investments 22 3,060 1,837
Deferred tax assets 14 4,287 4,096
Derivative financial instruments 43 5 103
Other non-current assets 23 1,041 1,020
Total non-current assets 60,184 60,201
Current assets
Inventories 24 5,996 5,947
Current tax recoverable 14 671 262
Trade and other receivables 25 6,952 7,202
Derivative financial instruments 43 152 421
Liquid investments 29 78 79
Cash and cash equivalents 26 6,292 4,707
Assets held for sale 27 106 873
Total current assets 20,247 19,491
Total assets 80,431 79,692
Current liabilities
Short-term borrowings 29 (3,725) (6,918)
Contingent consideration liabilities 32 (765) (755)
Trade and other payables 28 (15,840) (14,939)
Derivative financial instruments 43 (221) (188)
Current tax payable 14 (545) (629)
Short-term provisions 31 (1,052) (621)
Total current liabilities (22,148) (24,050)
Non-current liabilities
Long-term borrowings 29 (23,425) (23,590)
Corporation tax payable 14 (176) (189)
Deferred tax liabilities 14 (3,600) (3,810)
Pensions and other post-employment benefits 30 (3,650) (3,457)
Other provisions 31 (707) (670)
Derivative financial instruments 43 (10) (1)
Contingent consideration liabilities 32 (5,104) (4,724)
Other non-current liabilities 33 (803) (844)
Total non-current liabilities (37,475) (37,285)
Total liabilities (59,623) (61,335)
Net assets 20,808 18,357
Equity
Share capital 36 1,346 1,346
Share premium account 36 3,281 3,174
Retained earnings 37 6,755 4,530
Other reserves 37 3,205 2,355
Shareholders’ equity 14,587 11,405
Non-controlling interests 6,221 6,952
Total equity 20,808 18,357
The financial statements on pages 154 to 237 were approved by the Board on 8 March 2021 and signed on its behalf by
Sir Jonathan Symonds
Chairman
GSK Annual Report 2020 155Consolidated statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 December 2020
Shareholders’ equity
Share Share Retained Other Non-controlling Total
capital premium earnings reserves* Total interests equity
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 31 December 2017 1,343 3,019 (6,477) 2,047 (68) 3,557 3,489
Implementation of IFRS 15 – – (4) – (4) – (4)
Implementation of IFRS 9 – – 277 (288) (11) – (11)
At 31 December 2017, as adjusted 1,343 3,019 (6,204) 1,759 (83) 3,557 3,474
Profit for the year – – 3,623 – 3,623 423 4,046
Other comprehensive income for the year – – 124 131 255 (1) 254
Total comprehensive income for the year – – 3,747 131 3,878 422 4,300
Distributions to non-controlling interests – – – – – (570) (570)
Contribution from non-controlling interests – – – – – 21 21
Derecognition of non-controlling interests in Consumer
Healthcare Joint Venture – – 4,056 – 4,056 (4,118) (62)
Dividends to shareholders – – (3,927) – (3,927) – (3,927)
Realised profits on disposal of equity investments – – 56 (56) – – –
Share of associates and joint ventures realised profits
on disposal of equity investments – – 38 (38) – – –
Shares issued 2 72 – – 74 – 74
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts – – (265) 265 – – –
Share-based incentive plans – – 360 – 360 – 360
Tax on share-based incentive plans – – 2 – 2 – 2
At 31 December 2018, as reported 1,345 3,091 (2,137) 2,061 4,360 (688) 3,672
Adjustment to non-controlling interest – – (579) – (579) 579 –
At 31 December 2018, as revised 1,345 3,091 (2,716) 2,061 3,781 (109) 3,672
Implementation of IFRS 16 – – (93) – (93) – (93)
At 31 December 2018, as adjusted 1,345 3,091 (2,809) 2,061 3,688 (109) 3,579
Profit for the year – – 4,645 – 4,645 623 5,268
Other comprehensive income for the year – – (1,766) 274 (1,492) (75) (1,567)
Total comprehensive income for the year – – 2,879 274 3,153 548 3,701
Distributions to non-controlling interests – – – – – (364) (364)
Changes in non-controlling interests – – – – – (10) (10)
Dividends to shareholders – – (3,953) – (3,953) – (3,953)
Recognition of interest in Consumer Healthcare JV – – 8,082 – 8,082 6,887 14,969
Realised losses on disposal of equity investments – – (4) 4 – – –
Shares issued 1 50 – – 51 – 51
Shares acquired by ESOP Trusts – 33 295 (328) – – –
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts – – (344) 344 – – –
Share-based incentive plans – – 365 – 365 – 365
Tax on share-based incentive plans – – 19 – 19 – 19
At 31 December 2019 1,346 3,174 4,530 2,355 11,405 6,952 18,357
Profit for the year – – 5,749 – 5,749 639 6,388
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year – – (133) 1,137 1,004 (34) 970
Total comprehensive income for the year – – 5,616 1,137 6,753 605 7,358
Distributions to non-controlling interests – – – – – (1,208) (1,208)
Contributions from non-controlling interests – – – – – 3 3
Changes in non-controlling interests – – – – – (131) (131)
Dividends to shareholders – – (3,977) – (3,977) – (3,977)
Realised profits on disposal of equity investments – – 163 (163) – – –
Share of associates and joint ventures realised profits – – 44 (44) – – –
on disposal of equity investments
Shares issued – 29 – – 29 – 29
Shares acquired by ESOP Trusts – 78 531 (609) – – –
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts – – (529) 529 – – –
Share-based incentive plans – – 381 – 381 – 381
Tax on share-based incentive plans – – (4) – (4) – (4)
At 31 December 2020 1,346 3,281 6,755 3,205 14,587 6,221 20,808
* an analysis of Other reserves is presented as part of Note 37 ‘Movements in equity’.
156 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Consolidated cash flow statement
for the year ended 31 December 2020
2020 2019 2018
Notes £m £m £m
Cash flow from operating activities
Profit after taxation for the year 6,388 5,268 4,046
Adjustments reconciling profit after tax to operating cash flows 41 3,708 4,264 5,701
Cash generated from operations 10,096 9,532 9,747
Taxation paid (1,655) (1,512) (1,326)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 8,441 8,020 8,421
Cash flow from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (1,226) (1,265) (1,344)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 68 95 168
Purchase of intangible assets (1,013) (898) (452)
Proceeds from sale of intangible assets 1,255 404 256
Purchase of equity investments (411) (258) (309)
Proceeds from sale of equity investments 3,269 69 151
Contingent consideration paid (120) (113) (153)
Purchase of businesses, net of cash acquired 40 15 (3,571) –
Disposal of businesses 40 259 104 26
Investments in associates and joint ventures 40 (4) (11) (10)
Proceeds from disposal of interests in associates 40 – – 3
(Increase)/decrease in liquid investments (1) 1 –
Interest received 39 82 72
Dividends from associates, joint ventures and equity investments 31 7 39
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from investing activities 2,161 (5,354) (1,553)
Cash flow from financing activities
Issue of share capital 36 29 51 74
Purchase of non-controlling interests – (7) (9,320)
Increase in long-term loans 3,298 4,794 10,138
Repayment of short-term Notes (3,738) (4,160) (2,067)
(Repayment of)/increase in other short-term loans (3,567) 3,095 81
Repayment of lease liabilities (227) (214) (28)
Interest paid (864) (895) (766)
Dividends paid to shareholders (3,977) (3,953) (3,927)
Distributions to non-controlling interests (1,208) (364) (570)
Contributions from non-controlling interests 3 – 21
Other financing cash flows 119 (187) (25)
Net cash outflow from financing activities (10,132) (1,840) (6,389)
Increase in cash and bank overdrafts 42 470 826 479
Cash and bank overdrafts at beginning of year 4,831 4,087 3,600
Exchange adjustments (39) (82) 8
Increase in cash and bank overdrafts 470 826 479
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year 5,262 4,831 4,087
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year comprise:
Cash and cash equivalents 6,292 4,707 3,874
Cash and cash equivalents reported in assets held for sale – 507 485
6,292 5,214 4,359
Overdrafts (1,030) (383) (272)
5,262 4,831 4,087
GSK Annual Report 2019 157Notes to the financial statements
1. Presentation of the financial statements
Description of business Composition of the Group
GSK is a major global healthcare group which is engaged A list of the subsidiaries and associates which, in the opinion
in the creation and discovery, development, manufacture and of the Directors, principally affected the amount of profit or net
marketing of pharmaceutical products, vaccines, over-the- assets of the Group is given in Note 45, ‘Principal Group
counter (OTC) medicines and health-related consumer companies’.
products. GSK’s principal pharmaceutical products include
Financial period
medicines in the following therapeutic areas: respiratory, HIV,
These financial statements cover the financial year from
immuno-inflammation, oncology, anti-virals, central nervous
1 January to 31 December 2020, with comparative figures for
system, cardiovascular and urogenital, metabolic, anti-bacterials
the financial years from 1 January to 31 December 2019 and,
and dermatology.
where appropriate, from 1 January to 31 December 2018.
Compliance with applicable law and IFRS
Accounting principles and policies
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance
The financial statements have been prepared using the
with international accounting standards in conformity with the
historical cost convention modified by the revaluation of certain
requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and the International
items, as stated in the accounting policies, and on a going
Financial Reporting Standards adopted pursuant to Regulation
concern basis.
(EC) No 1606/2002 as it applies in the European Union.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance
The financial statements have also been prepared in
with the Group’s accounting policies approved by the Board
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards
and described in Note 2, ‘Accounting principles and policies’.
as issued by the IASB.
Information on the application of these accounting policies,
including areas of estimation and judgement is given in Note 3,
Composition of financial statements
‘Key accounting judgements and estimates’.
The consolidated financial statements are drawn up in Sterling,
the functional currency of GlaxoSmithKline plc, and in The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with
accordance with IFRS accounting presentation. The financial generally accepted accounting principles requires management
statements comprise: to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported
amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent
– Consolidated income statement
assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and
– Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the
– Consolidated balance sheet reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
– Consolidated statement of changes in equity Parent company financial statements
The financial statements of the parent company,
– Consolidated cash flow statement
GlaxoSmithKline plc, have been prepared in accordance with
– Notes to the financial statements. UK GAAP and with UK accounting presentation. The company
balance sheet is presented on page 238 and the accounting
policies are given on pages 239 and 240.
2. Accounting principles and policies
Consolidation Where the Group has the ability to exercise joint control over,
The consolidated financial statements include: and rights to, the net assets of entities, the entities are
accounted for as joint ventures. Where the Group has the ability
– the assets and liabilities, and the results and cash flows, of
to exercise joint control over an arrangement, but has rights to
the company and its subsidiaries, including ESOP Trusts
specified assets and obligations for specified liabilities of the
– the Group’s share of the results and net assets of associates arrangement, the arrangement is accounted for as a joint
and joint ventures operation. Where the Group has the ability to exercise
– the Group’s share of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses significant influence over entities, they are accounted for as
of joint operations. associates. The results and assets and liabilities of associates
and joint ventures are incorporated into the consolidated
The financial statements of entities consolidated are made up
financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
to 31 December each year.
The Group’s rights to assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses
Entities over which the Group has the power to direct the of joint operations are included in the consolidated financial
relevant activities so as to affect the returns to the Group, statements in accordance with those rights and obligations.
generally through control over the financial and operating
Interests acquired in entities are consolidated from the date the
policies, are accounted for as subsidiaries.
Group acquires control and interests sold are de-consolidated
from the date control ceases.
158 GSK Annual Report 2019Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
2. Accounting principles and policies continued
Transactions and balances between subsidiaries are eliminated On consolidation, assets and liabilities, including related
and no profit before tax is taken on sales between subsidiaries goodwill, of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint
until the products are sold to customers outside the Group. ventures, are translated into Sterling at rates of exchange
The relevant proportion of profits on transactions with joint ruling at the balance sheet date. The results and cash flows
ventures, joint operations and associates is also deferred until of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures are
the products are sold to third parties. Transactions with non- translated into Sterling using average rates of exchange.
controlling interests are recorded directly in equity. Deferred
Exchange adjustments arising when the opening net assets
tax relief on unrealised intra-Group profit is accounted for only
and the profits for the year retained by overseas subsidiaries,
to the extent that it is considered recoverable.
associates and joint ventures are translated into Sterling, less
Business combinations exchange differences arising on related foreign currency
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition borrowings which hedge the Group’s net investment in these
accounting method. Identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent operations, are taken to a separate component of equity.
liabilities acquired are measured at fair value at acquisition date.
When translating into Sterling the assets, liabilities, results
The consideration transferred is measured at fair value and
and cash flows of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint
includes the fair value of any contingent consideration.
ventures which are reported in currencies of hyper-inflationary
The fair value of contingent consideration liabilities are economies, adjustments are made where material to reflect
reassessed at each balance sheet date with changes current price levels. Any loss on net monetary assets is charged
recognised in the income statement. Payments of contingent to the consolidated income statement.
consideration reduce the balance sheet liability and as a result
Revenue
are not recorded in the income statement.
Turnover
The part of each payment relating to the original estimate of
The Group receives revenue for supply of goods to external
the fair value of the contingent consideration on acquisition is
customers against orders received. The majority of contracts
reported within investing activities in the cash flow statement
that GSK enters into relate to sales orders containing single
and the part of each payment relating to the increase in the
performance obligations for the delivery of pharmaceutical,
liability since the acquisition date is reported within operating
vaccine and consumer healthcare products. The average
cash flows.
duration of a sales order is less than 12 months.
Where the consideration transferred, together with the non-
Product revenue is recognised when control of the goods is
controlling interest, exceeds the fair value of the net assets,
passed to the customer. The point at which control passes is
liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired, the excess is
determined by each customer arrangement, but generally
recorded as goodwill. The costs of effecting an acquisition
occurs on delivery to the customer.
are charged to the income statement in the period in which
Product revenue represents net invoice value including fixed
they are incurred.
and variable consideration. Variable consideration arises on the
Goodwill is capitalised as a separate item in the case of
sale of goods as a result of discounts and allowances given and
subsidiaries and as part of the cost of investment in the case
accruals for estimated future returns and rebates. Revenue is
of joint ventures and associates. Goodwill is denominated in
not recognised in full until it is highly probable that a significant
the currency of the operation acquired.
reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue recognised will
Where the cost of acquisition is below the fair value of the net not occur. The methodology and assumptions used to estimate
assets acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the rebates and returns are monitored and adjusted regularly in
income statement. the light of contractual and legal obligations, historical trends,
past experience and projected market conditions. Once the
Where not all of the equity of a subsidiary is acquired the
uncertainty associated with the returns and rebates is resolved,
non-controlling interest is recognised either at fair value or
revenue is adjusted accordingly.
at the non-controlling interest’s share of the net assets of the
subsidiary, on a case-by-case basis. Changes in the Group’s Other operating income and royalty income
ownership percentage of subsidiaries are accounted for GSK enters into development and marketing collaborations
within equity. and out-licences of the Group’s compounds or products to
Foreign currency translation other parties. These contracts give rise to fixed and variable
Foreign currency transactions are booked in the functional consideration from upfront payments, development milestones,
currency of the Group company at the exchange rate ruling sales-based milestones and royalties.
on the date of transaction. Foreign currency monetary assets Income dependent on the achievement of a development
and liabilities are retranslated into the functional currency at milestone is recognised when it is highly probable that a
rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. Exchange significant reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue
differences are included in the income statement. recognised will not occur, which is usually when the related event
occurs. Sales-based milestone income is recognised when it is
highly probable that the sales threshold will be reached.
GSK Annual Report 2020 159Notes to the financial statements continued
2. Accounting principles and policies continued
Sales-based royalties on a licence of intellectual property are In certain cases, an incurred but not reported (IBNR) actuarial
not recognised until the relevant product sale occurs. technique is used to determine this estimate. In addition,
provision is made for legal or other expenses arising from
For all revenue, if the time between the recognition of revenue
claims received or other disputes.
and payment from the customer is expected to be more than
one year and the impact is material, the amount of consideration The Group may become involved in legal proceedings, in
is discounted using appropriate discount rates. respect of which it is not possible to make a reliable estimate
of the expected financial effect, if any, that could result from
Value added tax and other sales taxes are excluded from revenue.
ultimate resolution of the proceedings. In these cases,
Expenditure appropriate disclosure about such cases would be included
Expenditure is recognised in respect of goods and services but no provision would be made.
received when supplied in accordance with contractual terms.
Costs associated with claims made by the Group against third
Provision is made when an obligation exists for a future liability
parties are charged to the income statement as they are
in respect of a past event and where the amount of the
incurred.
obligation can be reliably estimated. Manufacturing start-up
costs between validation and the achievement of normal Pensions and other post-employment benefits
production are expensed as incurred. The costs of providing pensions under defined benefit schemes
are calculated using the projected unit credit method and spread
Advertising and promotion expenditure is charged to the income
over the period during which benefit is expected to be derived from
statement as incurred.
the employees’ services, consistent with the advice of qualified
Shipment costs on inter-company transfers are charged to cost actuaries.
of sales; distribution costs on sales to customers are included in
Pension obligations are measured as the present value of
selling, general and administrative expenditure.
estimated future cash flows discounted at rates reflecting the
Restructuring costs are recognised and provided for, where yields of high-quality corporate bonds. Pension scheme assets are
appropriate, in respect of the direct expenditure of a business measured at fair value at the balance sheet date.
reorganisation where the plans are sufficiently detailed and well
The costs of other post-employment liabilities are calculated in
advanced, and where appropriate communication to those
a similar way to defined benefit pension schemes and spread
affected has been undertaken.
over the period during which benefit is expected to be derived
Research and development from the employees’ services, in accordance with the advice of
Research and development expenditure is charged to the qualified actuaries. The service cost of providing retirement
income statement in the period in which it is incurred. benefits to employees during the year, together with the cost of
Development expenditure is capitalised when the criteria for any curtailment, is charged to operating profit in the year.
recognising an asset are met, usually when a regulatory filing
Actuarial gains and losses and the effect of changes in actuarial
has been made in a major market and approval is considered
assumptions are recognised in the statement of comprehensive
highly probable. Property, plant and equipment used for
income in the year in which they arise.
research and development is capitalised and depreciated
in accordance with the Group’s policy. The Group’s contributions to defined contribution plans are
charged to the income statement as incurred.
Environmental expenditure
Environmental expenditure related to existing conditions Employee share plans
resulting from past or current operations and from which no Incentives in the form of shares are provided to employees
current or future benefit is discernible is charged to the income under share option and share award schemes.
statement. The Group recognises its liability on a site-by-site
The fair values of these options and awards are calculated at their
basis when it can be reliably estimated. This liability includes
grant dates using a Black-Scholes option pricing model and
the Group’s portion of the total costs and also a portion of other
charged to the income statement over the relevant vesting periods.
potentially responsible parties’ costs when it is probable that
they will not be able to satisfy their respective shares of the The Group provides finance to ESOP Trusts to purchase
clean-up obligation. Recoveries of reimbursements are company shares to meet the obligation to provide shares when
recorded as assets when virtually certain. employees exercise their options or awards. Costs of running the
ESOP Trusts are charged to the income statement. Shares held
Legal and other disputes
by the ESOP Trusts are deducted from other reserves. A transfer
Provision is made for the anticipated settlement costs of legal or
is made between other reserves and retained earnings over the
other disputes against the Group where an outflow of resources
vesting periods of the related share options or awards to reflect
is considered probable and a reliable estimate can be made of
the ultimate proceeds receivable from employees on exercise.
the likely outcome. In respect of product liability claims related
to certain products, provision is made when there is sufficient Property, plant and equipment
history of claims made and settlements to enable management Property, plant and equipment (PP&E) is stated at the cost of
to make a reliable estimate of the provision required to cover purchase or construction, less provisions for depreciation and
unasserted claims. impairment. Financing costs are capitalised within the cost of
qualifying assets in construction.
160 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
2. Accounting principles and policies continued
Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost less residual Leases (applicable up to 31 December 2018)
value of PP&E, excluding freehold land, using the straight-line Leasing agreements which transfer to the Group substantially
basis over the expected useful life. Residual values and lives are all the benefits and risks of ownership of an asset are treated
reviewed, and where appropriate adjusted annually. The normal as finance leases, as if the asset had been purchased outright.
expected useful lives of the major categories of PP&E are: The assets are included in PP&E or computer software and the
capital elements of the leasing commitments are shown as
Freehold buildings 20 to 50 years
obligations under finance leases. Assets held under finance
Leasehold land and buildings Lease term or 20 to 50 years
leases are depreciated on a basis consistent with similar owned
Plant and machinery 10 to 20 years
assets or the lease term, if shorter. The interest element of the
Equipment and vehicles 3 to 10 years
lease rental is included in the income statement. All other leases
On disposal of PP&E, the cost and related accumulated are operating leases and the rental costs are charged to the
depreciation and impairments are removed from the financial income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
statements and the net amount, less any proceeds, is taken
Goodwill
to the income statement.
Goodwill is stated at cost less impairments. Goodwill is
Leases (applicable from 1 January 2019) deemed to have an indefinite useful life and is tested for
The Group recognises right of use assets under lease impairment at least annually.
arrangements in which it is the lessee. Rights to use assets
Where the fair value of the interest acquired in an entity’s
owned by third parties under lease agreements are capitalised
assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the
at the inception of the lease and recognised on the consolidated
consideration paid, this excess is recognised immediately
balance sheet.
as a gain in the income statement.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is recognised as a lease
Other intangible assets
obligation within short and long-term borrowings. The carrying
Intangible assets are stated at cost less provisions for
amount is subsequently increased to reflect interest on the
amortisation and impairments.
lease liability and reduced by lease payments made.
Licences, patents, know-how and marketing rights separately
For calculating the discounted lease liability on leases with
acquired or acquired as part of a business combination are
annual payments of £2 million or more, the implicit rate in the
amortised over their estimated useful lives, generally not
lease is used. If this is not available, the incremental borrowing
exceeding 20 years, using the straight-line basis, from the
rate with a lease specific adjustment is used. If neither of these
time they are available for use. The estimated useful lives for
is available, and for leases with annual payments of less than
determining the amortisation charge take into account patent
£2 million, the incremental borrowing rate is used. The
lives, where applicable, as well as the value obtained from
incremental borrowing rate is calculated at the rate of interest
periods of non-exclusivity. Asset lives are reviewed, and where
at which GSK would have been able to borrow for a similar term
appropriate adjusted, annually.
and with a similar security the funds necessary to obtain a
similar asset in a similar market. Contingent milestone payments are recognised at the point
that the contingent event becomes probable. Any development
Finance costs are charged to the income statement so as to
costs incurred by the Group and associated with acquired
produce a constant periodic rate of charge on the remaining
licences, patents, know-how or marketing rights are written off
balance of the obligations for each accounting period.
to the income statement when incurred, unless the criteria for
Variable rents are not part of the lease liability and the right recognition of an internally-generated intangible asset are met,
of use asset. These payments are charged to the income usually when a regulatory filing has been made in a major market
statement as incurred. Short-term and low-value leases are and approval is considered highly probable.
not capitalised and lease rentals are also charged to the income
Acquired brands are valued independently as part of the fair value
statement as incurred.
of businesses acquired from third parties where the brand has a
Non-lease components are accounted for separately from the value which is substantial and long-term and where the brands
lease components in plant and equipment leases but are not either are contractual or legal in nature or can be sold separately
separately accounted for in land and buildings or vehicle leases. from the rest of the businesses acquired. Brands are amortised
over their estimated useful lives of up to 20 years, except where it
If modifications or reassessments occur, the lease liability and
is considered that the useful economic life is indefinite.
right of use asset are re-measured.
The costs of acquiring and developing computer software for
Right of use assets where title is expected to pass to GSK at
internal use and internet sites for external use are capitalised as
a point in the future are depreciated on a basis consistent with
intangible fixed assets where the software or site supports a
similar owned assets. In other cases, right of use assets are
significant business system and the expenditure leads to the
depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset or
creation of a durable asset. ERP systems software is amortised
the lease term.
over seven to ten years and other computer software over three
to five years.
GSK Annual Report 2020 161Notes to the financial statements continued
2. Accounting principles and policies continued
Impairment of non-current assets Other investments
The carrying values of all non-current assets are reviewed for Other investments comprise equity investments and
impairment, either on a stand-alone basis or as part of a larger investments in limited life funds. The Group has elected to
cash generating unit, when there is an indication that the assets designate equity investments as measured at FVTOCI. They
might be impaired. Additionally, goodwill, intangible assets with are initially recorded at fair value plus transaction costs and
indefinite useful lives and intangible assets which are not yet then remeasured at subsequent reporting dates to fair value.
available for use are tested for impairment annually. Any Unrealised gains and losses are recognised in other
provision for impairment is charged to the income statement comprehensive income.
in the year concerned.
On disposal of the equity investment, gains and losses that have
Impairments of goodwill are not reversed. Impairment losses on been deferred in Other comprehensive income are transferred
other non-current assets are only reversed if there has been a directly to retained earnings. Investments in limited life funds are
change in estimates used to determine recoverable amounts measured at FVTPL. They are initially recorded at fair value and
and only to the extent that the revised recoverable amounts do then remeasured at subsequent reporting dates to fair value.
not exceed the carrying values that would have existed, net of Unrealised gains and losses are recognised in the income
depreciation or amortisation, had no impairments been statement.
recognised.
Dividends on equity investments and distributions from funds
Investments in associates, joint ventures and joint are recognised in the income statement when the Group’s right
operations to receive payment is established.
Investments in associates and joint ventures are carried in the
Purchases and sales of Other investments are accounted for
consolidated balance sheet at the Group’s share of their net
on the trade date.
assets at date of acquisition and of their post-acquisition
retained profits or losses together with any goodwill arising Trade receivables
on the acquisition. The Group recognises its rights to assets, Trade receivables are measured in accordance with the
liabilities, revenue and expenses of joint operations. business model under which each portfolio of trade receivables
is held. The Group has portfolios in each of the three business
Inventories
models under IFRS 9 due to factoring arrangements in place: to
Inventories are included in the financial statements at the lower
collect the contractual cash flows (measured at amortised cost),
of cost (including raw materials, direct labour, other direct costs
to sell the contractual cash flows (measured at FVTPL), and both
and related production overheads) and net realisable value.
to collect and to sell the contractual cash flows (measured at
Cost is generally determined on a first in, first out basis.
FVTOCI). Trade receivables measured at amortised cost are
Pre-launch inventory is held as an asset when there is a high
carried at the original invoice amount less allowances for
probability of regulatory approval for the product. Before that
expected credit losses.
point a provision is made against the carrying value to its
recoverable amount; the provision is then reversed at the point Expected credit losses are calculated in accordance with the
when a high probability of regulatory approval is determined. simplified approach permitted by IFRS 9, using a provision matrix
applying lifetime historical credit loss experience to the trade
Financial instruments
receivables. The expected credit loss rate varies depending
Financial assets
on whether, and the extent to which, settlement of the trade
Financial assets are measured at amortised cost, fair value
receivables is overdue and it is also adjusted as appropriate to
through other comprehensive income (FVTOCI) or fair value
reflect current economic conditions and estimates of future
through profit or loss (FVTPL). The measurement basis is
conditions. For the purpose of determining credit loss rates,
determined by reference to both the business model for
customers are classified into groupings that have similar loss
managing the financial asset and the contractual cash flow
patterns. The key drivers of the loss rate are the nature of the
characteristics of the financial asset. For financial assets
business unit and the location and type of customer.
other than trade receivables a 12-month expected credit loss
(ECL) allowance is recorded on initial recognition. If there is When a trade receivable is determined to have no reasonable
subsequent evidence of a significant increase in the credit risk expectation of recovery it is written off, firstly against any
of an asset, the allowance is increased to reflect the full lifetime expected credit loss allowance available and then to the
ECL. If there is no realistic prospect of recovery, the asset is income statement.
written off. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously provided for or
Expected credit losses are recognised in the income statement written off are credited to the income statement. Long-term
on financial assets measured at amortised cost and at fair value receivables are discounted where the effect is material.
through other comprehensive income apart from equity
investments.
162 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
2. Accounting principles and policies continued
Cash and cash equivalents Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as fair value
Cash held in deposit accounts is measured at amortised cost. hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with the
Investments in money market funds are held at fair value through changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability.
profit or loss because the funds fail the solely payments of
Taxation
principal and interest (SPPI) test.
Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid,
applying tax rates that have been enacted or substantively
Borrowings
enacted by the balance sheet date.
All borrowings are initially recorded at the amount of proceeds
received, net of transaction costs. Borrowings are subsequently Deferred tax is provided in full, on temporary differences arising
carried at amortised cost, with the difference between the between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying
proceeds, net of transaction costs, and the amount due on amounts in the financial statements. Deferred tax assets are
redemption being recognised as a charge to the income recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable
statement over the period of the relevant borrowing. profits will be available against which the temporary differences
can be utilised. Deferred tax is provided on temporary
Derivative financial instruments
differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, associates
Derivative financial instruments are used to manage exposure
and joint ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of the
to market risks. The principal derivative instruments used by
temporary difference can be controlled and it is probable that
GSK are foreign currency swaps, interest rate swaps, foreign
the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable
exchange forward contracts and options. The Group does not
future. Deferred tax is provided using rates of tax that have been
hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or
enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
speculative purposes.
Where an uncertain tax position is identified, management will
Derivative financial assets and liabilities, including derivatives
make a judgement as to what the probable outcome will be,
embedded in host contracts which have been separated from
assuming the relevant tax authority has full knowledge of the
the host contract, are classified as held-for-trading and are
situation. Where it is assessed that an economic outflow is
measured at fair value. Changes in the fair value of any derivative
probable to arise, a provision is made for the best estimate of
instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are
the liability. In estimating any such liability GSK applies a
recognised immediately in the income statement.
risk-based approach which takes into account, as appropriate,
Hedge accounting the probability that the Group would be able to obtain
compensatory adjustments under international tax treaties.
Derivatives designated as hedging instruments are classified
These estimates take into account the specific circumstances
at inception of hedge relationship as cash flow hedges, net
of each dispute and relevant external advice.
investment hedges or fair value hedges.
Discounting
Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow
Where the time value of money is material, balances are
hedges are recognised in other comprehensive income to the
discounted to current values using appropriate discount rates.
extent that the hedges are effective. Ineffective portions are
The unwinding of the discounts is recorded in finance income
recognised in profit or loss immediately. Amounts deferred in
and finance expense.
other comprehensive income are reclassified to the income
statement when the hedged item affects profit or loss.
Net investment hedges are accounted for in a similar way to
cash flow hedges.
3. Key accounting judgements and estimates
In preparing the financial statements, management is required Estimates
to make judgements about when or how items should be Gross turnover is reduced by rebates, discounts, allowances
recognised in the financial statements and estimates and and product returns given or expected to be given, which
assumptions that affect the amounts of assets, liabilities, vary by product arrangements and buying groups. These
revenue and expenses reported in the financial statements. arrangements with purchasing organisations are dependent
Actual amounts and results could differ from those estimates. upon the submission of claims some time after the initial
The following are considered to be the critical accounting recognition of the sale. Accruals are made at the time of sale
judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty. for the estimated rebates, discounts or allowances payable or
returns to be made, based on available market information and
Turnover
historical experience.
Reported Group turnover for 2020 was £34,099 million
(2019 – £33,754 million).
GSK Annual Report 2020 163Notes to the financial statements continued
3. Key accounting judgements and estimates continued
The US Pharmaceuticals business has the largest and most Estimates
complex arrangements for rebates, discounts and allowances. The Group has open tax issues with a number of revenue
The US Pharmaceuticals turnover for 2020 of £7,451 million authorities. Management makes a judgement of whether there is
(2019 – £7,402 million) was after recording deductions of sufficient information to be able to make a reliable estimate of
£12,584 million (2019 – £11,069 million) for rebates, discounts, the outcome of the dispute. If insufficient information is available,
allowances and returns. The balance sheet accruals for rebates, no provision is made.
discounts, allowances and returns for the US Pharmaceuticals
If sufficient information is available, in estimating a potential tax
and Vaccines businesses are managed on a combined basis.
liability GSK applies a risk-based approach which takes into
At 31 December 2020, the total accrual amounted to
account, as appropriate, the probability that the Group would
£4,686 million (2019 – £4,200 million). Because of the nature
be able to obtain compensatory adjustments under international
of these accruals it is not practicable to give meaningful
tax treaties. These estimates take into account the specific
sensitivity estimates due to the large volume of variables that
circumstances of each dispute and relevant external advice,
contribute to the overall rebates, chargebacks, returns and
are inherently judgemental and could change substantially over
other revenue accruals.
time as each dispute progresses and new facts emerge.
As there can be significant variability in final outcomes, the
At 31 December 2020, the Group had recognised provisions
group applies a constraint when measuring the variable element
of £856 million in respect of uncertain tax positions (2019 –
within revenue, so that revenue is recognised at a suitably
£933 million). Due to the number of uncertain tax positions held
cautious amount. The objective of the constraint is to ensure
and the number of jurisdictions to which these relate, it is not
that it is highly probable that a significant reversal of revenue will
practicable to give meaningful sensitivity estimates.
not occur when the uncertainties are resolved. The constraint is
applied by making suitably cautious estimates of the inputs and Factors affecting the tax charge in future years are set out in
assumptions used in estimating the variable consideration. Note 14, ‘Taxation’. GSK continues to believe that it has made
Because the amounts are estimated they may not fully reflect adequate provision for the liabilities likely to arise from open
the final outcome, and the amounts are subject to change assessments. Where open issues exist, the ultimate liability
dependent upon, amongst other things, the types of buying for such matters may vary from the amounts provided and is
group and product sales mix. The constraints applied in dependent upon the outcome of negotiations with the relevant
recognising revenue mean that the risk of a material downward tax authorities or, if necessary, litigation proceedings.
adjustment to revenue in the next financial year is low. Legal and other disputes
The level of accrual for rebates and returns is reviewed and Legal costs for the year were £231 million (2019 –
adjusted regularly in the light of contractual and legal £363 million). At 31 December 2020 provisions for legal and
obligations, historical trends, past experience and projected other disputes amounted to £320 million (2019 – £198 million).
market conditions. Market conditions are evaluated using
Estimates
wholesaler and other third-party analyses, market research data
Management makes a judgement of whether there is sufficient
and internally-generated information. It is reasonably possible
information to be able to make a reliable estimate of the likely
that there could be a significant adjustment within the next 12
outcome of the dispute and the legal and other expenses arising
months to recognise additional revenue, if actual outcomes are
from claims against the Group. If insufficient information is
better than the cautious constrained estimates. Revenue is not
available, no provision is made and disclosure of the claim is
recognised in full until it is highly probable that a significant
given.
reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue recognised will
not occur. The amount of turnover recognised in the year from The estimated provisions take into account the specific
performance obligations satisfied in previous periods is set out circumstances of each dispute and relevant external advice, are
in Note 6, ‘Turnover and segment information’, and is an inherently judgemental and could change substantially over time
indication of the level of sensitivity in the estimate. as each dispute progresses and new facts emerge. Details of
the status and various uncertainties involved in the significant
Future events could cause the assumptions on which the
unresolved disputes are set out in Note 46, ‘Legal proceedings’.
accruals are based to change, which could materially affect
the future results of the Group. The company’s Directors, having taken legal advice, have
established provisions after taking into account the relevant
Taxation
facts and circumstances of each matter and in accordance with
The tax charge for the year was £580 million (2019 –
accounting requirements. In respect of product liability claims
£953 million). At December 2020, current tax payable was
related to certain products, there is sufficient history of claims
£545 million (2019 – £629 million), non-current corporation
made and settlements to enable management to make a reliable
tax payable was £176 million (2019 – £189 million) and current
estimate of the provision required to cover unasserted claims.
tax recoverable was £671 million (2019 – £262 million).
164 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
3. Key accounting judgements and estimates continued
The Group may become involved in legal proceedings, in respect Pensions and other post-employment benefits
of which it is not possible to make a reliable estimate of the Judgement
expected financial effect, if any, or practicable to give a
Where a surplus on a defined benefit scheme arises, or
meaningful range of outcomes that could result from ultimate
there is potential for a surplus to arise from committed future
resolution of the proceedings. In these cases, appropriate
contributions, the rights of the Trustees to prevent the Group
disclosure about such cases would be provided, but no provision
obtaining a refund of that surplus in the future are considered
would be made and no contingent liability can be quantified.
in determining whether it is necessary to restrict the amount of
The ultimate liability for legal claims may vary from the amounts the surplus that is recognised. Three UK schemes are in
provided and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation surplus, with a combined surplus of £77 million at 31 December
proceedings, investigations and possible settlement negotiations. 2020 (2019 – £70 million). GSK has made the judgement that
The position could change over time and, therefore, there can be these amounts meet the requirements of recoverability.
no assurance that any losses that result from the outcome of any
Estimates
legal proceedings will not exceed the amount of the provisions
The costs of providing pensions and other post-employment
reported in the Group’s financial statements by a material amount.
benefits are assessed on the basis of assumptions selected by
Contingent consideration management. These assumptions include future earnings and
The 2020 income statement charge for contingent pension increases, discount rates, expected long-term rates of
consideration was £1,275 million (2019 – £83 million). return on assets and mortality rates, and are disclosed in Note
At 31 December 2020, the liability for contingent consideration 30, ‘Pensions and other post-employment benefits’.
amounted to £5,869 million (2019 – £5,479 million). Of this Discount rates are derived from AA rated corporate bond yields
amount, £5,359 million (2019 – £5,103 million) related to the except in countries where there is no deep market in corporate
acquisition of the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture bonds where government bond yields are used. A sensitivity
in 2012. analysis is provided in Note 30, ‘Pensions and other post-
employment benefits’, a 0.5% reduction in the discount
Estimates
rate would lead to an increase in the net pension deficit of
Any contingent consideration included in the consideration
approximately £1,745 million and an increase in the annual
payable for a business combination is recorded at fair value at
pension cost of approximately £27 million. Similarly, a 0.5%
the date of acquisition. These fair values are generally based on
increase in the discount rate would lead to a decrease in the net
risk-adjusted future cash flows discounted using appropriate
pension deficit of approximately £1,550 million and a decrease
post-tax discount rates. The fair values are reviewed on a
in the annual pension cost of approximately £39 million. The
regular basis, at least annually, and any changes are reflected in
selection of different assumptions could affect the future results
the income statement. See Note 32, ‘Contingent consideration
of the Group.
liabilities’.
4. New accounting requirements
During the year, the Group implemented an amendment to IFRS ‘Interest Rate Benchmark Reform Phase 2 - Amendments
3 ‘Business combinations’ which was issued in October 2018. to IFRS 9, IAS 39, IFRS 7, IFRS 4 and IFRS 16’ was issued
The amendment clarifies the definition of a business and in August 2020 and will be effective from 1 January 2021.
permits a simplified initial assessment of whether an acquired The Phase 2 amendments address issues that arise from
set of activities and assets is a group of assets rather than a implementation of the reforms, including the replacement of
business. The amendment did not have a material impact on one benchmark with an alternative one. A practical expedient
the results or financial position of the Group in 2020. is provided such that the change to contractual cash flows for
financial assets and liabilities (including lease liabilities) is
‘Covid-19-Related Rent Concessions (Amendment to IFRS 16)’
accounted for prospectively by revising the effective interest
was issued in May 2020. It introduces a practical expedient to
rate. In addition, hedge accounting will not be discontinued
IFRS 16 ‘Leases’ which permits a lessee to elect not to assess
solely because of the IBOR reform.
whether a COVID-19-related concession in respect of rent
due for periods to 30 June 2021 is a lease modification. The The amendments are not expected to have a material impact
amendment is applicable for annual reporting periods beginning on the results or financial position of the Group.
on or after 1 June 2020 and earlier application is permitted.
GSK Annual Report 2020 165Notes to the financial statements continued
5. Exchange rates
The Group uses the average of exchange rates prevailing during the period to translate the results and cash flows of overseas
subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates into Sterling and period end rates to translate the net assets of those entities. The
currencies which most influence these translations and the relevant exchange rates were:
2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018
Average rates: Period end rates:
US$/£ 1.29 1.28 1.33 US$/£ 1.36 1.32 1.27
Euro/£ 1.13 1.14 1.13 Euro/£ 1.11 1.18 1.11
Yen/£ 137 139 147 Yen/£ 141 143 140
6. Turnover and segment information
Operating segments are reported based on the financial information provided to the Chief Executive Officer and the responsibilities
of the Corporate Executive Team (CET). GSK reports results under four segments: Pharmaceuticals; Pharmaceuticals R&D;
Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare, and individual members of the CET are responsible for each segment.
The Group’s management reporting process allocates intra-Group profit on a product sale to the market in which that sale is
recorded, and the profit analyses below have been presented on that basis.
Corporate and other unallocated turnover and costs includes the results of certain Consumer Healthcare products which are being
held for sale in a number of markets in order to meet anti-trust approval requirements, together with the costs of corporate functions.
Revenue recognised in the year from performance obligations satisfied in previous periods totalled £1,207 million (2019 –
£793 million) and included £649 million (2019 – £451 million) impacting turnover arising from changes to prior year estimates of
RAR (returns and rebates) accruals, £238 million (2019 – £15 million) of milestone income and £320 million (2019 – £328 million)
of royalty income recognised in the current year.
2020 2019 2018
Turnover by segment £m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals 17,056 17,554 17,269
Vaccines 6,982 7,157 5,894
Consumer Healthcare 10,033 8,995 7,658
Segment turnover 34,071 33,706 30,821
Corporate and other unallocated turnover 28 48 –
34,099 33,754 30,821
2020 2019 2018
Pharmaceuticals turnover by therapeutic area £m £m £m
Respiratory 3,749 3,081 2,612
HIV 4,876 4,854 4,722
Immuno-inflammation 727 613 472
Oncology 372 230 –
Established Pharmaceuticals 7,332 8,776 9,463
17,056 17,554 17,269
2020 2019 2018
Vaccines turnover by category £m £m £m
Meningitis 1,029 1,018 881
Influenza 733 541 523
Shingles 1,989 1,810 784
Established Vaccines 3,231 3,788 3,706
6,982 7,157 5,894
166 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
6. Turnover and segment information continued
During 2020, the US operations of the Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines businesses made sales to three wholesalers of approximately
£2,928 million (2019 – £2,835 million, 2018 – £2,709 million), £3,085 million (2019 – £3,146 million, 2018 – £2,962 million) and
£2,795 million (2019 – £2,820 million, 2018 – £2,656 million) respectively, after allocating final-customer discounts to the
wholesalers.
GSK has reviewed the presentation of its Consumer Healthcare products and from 1 January 2020 has adopted a revised and more
detailed disclosure of category sales closely aligned to consumer healthcare industry standard definitions. Comparative information
has been revised onto a consistent basis.
2019 2018
2020 (revised) (revised)
Consumer Healthcare turnover by category £m £m £m
Oral health 2,753 2,673 2,496
Pain relief 2,219 1,781 1,440
Vitamins, minerals and supplements 1,506 611 103
Respiratory health 1,209 1,186 1,085
Digestive health and other 1,824 1,646 1,435
9,511 7,897 6,559
Brands divested/under review 522 1,098 1,099
10,033 8,995 7,658
2020 2019 2018
Segment profit
£m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals 7,723 7,964 8,420
Pharmaceuticals R&D (3,538) (3,369) (2,676)
Pharmaceuticals, including R&D 4,185 4,595 5,744
Vaccines 2,713 2,966 1,943
Consumer Healthcare 2,213 1,874 1,517
Segment profit 9,111 9,435 9,204
Corporate and other unallocated costs (205) (463) (459)
Other reconciling items between segment profit and operating profit (1,123) (2,011) (3,262)
Operating profit 7,783 6,961 5,483
Finance income 44 98 81
Finance costs (892) (912) (798)
Profit on disposal of interest in associates – – 3
Share of after-tax profits of associates and joint ventures 33 74 31
Profit before taxation 6,968 6,221 4,800
Taxation (580) (953) (754)
Profit after taxation for the year 6,388 5,268 4,046
Other reconciling items between segment profit and operating profit comprise items not specifically allocated to segment profit.
These include impairment and amortisation of intangible assets; major restructuring costs, which include impairments of tangible
assets and computer software; transaction-related adjustments related to significant acquisitions; proceeds and costs of disposals
of associates, products and businesses, significant legal charges and expenses on the settlement of litigation and government
investigations, other operating income other than royalty income and other items, and separation costs.
2020 2019 2018
Depreciation and amortisation by segment
£m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals 557 606 506
Pharmaceuticals R&D 298 230 123
Pharmaceuticals, including R&D 855 836 629
Vaccines 404 418 395
Consumer Healthcare 235 224 146
Segment depreciation and amortisation 1,494 1,478 1,170
Corporate and other unallocated depreciation and amortisation 82 79 106
Other reconciling items between segment depreciation and amortisation and
total depreciation and amortisation 775 777 580
Total depreciation and amortisation 2,351 2,334 1,856
GSK Annual Report 2020 167Notes to the financial statements continued
6. Turnover and segment information continued
2020 2019 2018
PP&E, intangible asset and goodwill impairment by segment
£m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals 38 137 51
Pharmaceuticals R&D 37 16 15
Pharmaceuticals, including R&D 75 153 66
Vaccines 49 33 5
Consumer Healthcare 5 – 4
Segment impairment 129 186 75
Corporate and other unallocated impairment 5 19 14
Other reconciling items between segment impairment and total impairment 680 621 261
Total impairment 814 826 350
PP&E and intangible asset impairment reversals by segment
Pharmaceuticals (12) (6) (4)
Pharmaceuticals R&D (4) – (1)
Pharmaceuticals, including R&D (16) (6) (5)
Vaccines (2) (1) –
Consumer Healthcare – – –
Segment impairment reversals (18) (7) (5)
Corporate and other unallocated impairment reversals (1) (3) –
Other reconciling items between segment impairment reversals and total impairment reversals (53) (15) (8)
Total impairment reversals (72) (25) (13)
2020 2019
Net operating assets by segment £m £m
Pharmaceuticals 789 1,722
Pharmaceuticals R&D 3,345 4,503
Pharmaceuticals, including R&D 4,134 6,225
Vaccines 8,995 8,828
Consumer Healthcare 25,176 26,328
Segment net operating assets 38,305 41,381
Corporate and other unallocated net operating assets 2,250 1,446
Net operating assets 40,555 42,827
Net debt (20,780) (25,215)
Investments in associates and joint ventures 364 314
Derivative financial instruments (74) 335
Current and deferred taxation 637 (270)
Assets held for sale (excluding cash and cash equivalents) 106 366
Net assets 20,808 18,357
The Pharmaceuticals segment includes the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare contingent consideration liability of £5,359 million
(2019 – £5,103 million) and the Pfizer put option of £960 million (2019 – £1,011 million).
168 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
6. Turnover and segment information continued
Geographical information
The UK is regarded as being the Group’s country of domicile.
2020 2019 2018
Turnover by location of customer £m £m £m
UK 980 942 923
US 14,556 13,890 11,982
Rest of World 18,563 18,922 17,916
External turnover 34,099 33,754 30,821
2020 2019
Non-current assets by location of subsidiary £m £m
UK 6,279 6,116
US 17,899 19,483
Rest of World 27,712 27,696
Non-current assets 51,890 53,295
Non-current assets by location excludes amounts relating to other investments, deferred tax assets, derivative financial instruments,
pension assets, amounts receivable under insurance contracts and certain other non-current receivables.
7. Other operating income/(expense)
2020 2019 2018
£m £m £m
Fair value remeasurements of equity investments (6) (14) 20
Disposal of businesses and assets 2,779 541 258
Fair value remeasurements on contingent consideration recognised in business combinations (1,286) (92) (1,252)
Remeasurement of ViiV Healthcare put option liabilities and preferential dividends 52 234 58
Remeasurement of Consumer Healthcare put option liability – – (658)
Fair value adjustments on derivative financial instruments 20 – (3)
Other income/(expense) 65 20 (11)
1,624 689 (1,588)
Disposal of businesses and assets in 2020 included a net profit on disposal of the Horlicks and other Consumer Healthcare
nutritional brands and two subsidiaries in India and Bangladesh of £2,815 million, which reflected reversal of £240 million of
embedded derivative gains on the value of the shares taken in prior years. This was partly offset by the related £476 million loss
on the shares in Hindustan Unilever Limited, including fair value remeasurement losses between their acquisition as consideration
for the divestment of GSK Consumer Healthcare Limited in India and their subsequent disposal. Other operating income also
included an increase in profit and milestone income from a number of asset disposals.
In 2019, there was a profit on disposal of rabies and tick-borne encephalitis vaccines of £306 million and a gain arising from the
increase in value of the shares in Hindustan Unilever Limited subsequently received in 2020 of £143 million including fair value
movements on related derivatives.
Fair value remeasurements on contingent consideration recognised in business combinations included £1,114 million related to
the acquisition of the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture and £172 million related to the Vaccines acquisition from
Novartis, together with fair value movements on related hedging contracts.
GSK Annual Report 2020 169Notes to the financial statements continued
8. Operating profit
2020 2019 2018
The following items have been included in operating profit: £m £m £m
Employee costs (Note 9) 10,249 9,855 9,440
Advertising 1,777 1,567 1,376
Distribution costs 408 393 389
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 989 1,017 954
Impairment of property, plant and equipment, net of reversals 443 669 203
Depreciation of right of use assets 225 214
Impairment of right of use assets 3 2
Amortisation of intangible assets 1,137 1,103 902
Impairment of intangible assets, net of reversals 257 126 134
Impairment of property, plant and equipment held for sale, net of reversals 3 – 7
Impairment of intangible assets held for sale, net of reversals 20 1 –
Impairment of goodwill allocated to a disposal group, net of reversals 16 4 –
Net foreign exchange losses/(gains) 110 (37) 81
Inventories:
Cost of inventories included in cost of sales 9,480 9,482 8,713
Write-down of inventories 699 578 695
Reversal of prior year write-down of inventories (274) (230) (302)
Short-term lease charge 11 12
Low-value lease charge 5 4
Variable lease payments 11 13
Operating lease rentals:
Minimum lease payments 188
Contingent rents 12
Sub-lease payments 5
Fees payable to the company’s auditor and its associates in relation to the Group (see below) 29.9 30.4 29.8
The reversals of prior year write-downs of inventories principally arise from the reassessment of usage or demand expectations
prior to inventory expiration.
Net foreign exchange gains include a net loss of £36 million (2019 – £75 million gain; 2018 – £nil) arising on the reclassification
of exchange on liquidation or disposal of overseas subsidiaries.
Included within operating profit are Major restructuring charges of £1,532 million (2019 – £1,105 million; 2018 – £809 million),
see Note 10, ‘Major restructuring costs’.
2020 2019 2018
Fees payable to the company’s auditor and its associates: £m £m £m
Audit of parent company and consolidated financial statements including attestation under s.404
of Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 13.8 15.6 13.3
Audit of the company’s subsidiaries 14.5 13.5 12.9
Total audit services 28.3 29.1 26.2
Taxation compliance – – 0.1
Audit related and other assurance services 1.6 1.2 3.0
All other services – 0.1 0.5
Total audit-related and non-audit services 1.6 1.3 3.6
29.9 30.4 29.8
The other assurance services provided by the auditor related to agreed upon procedures and other assurance services outside of
statutory audit requirements. In addition to the above, fees paid to the auditor in respect of the GSK pension schemes were:
2020 2019 2018
£m £m £m
Audit 0.2 0.2 0.3
Other services – – –
Fees of £0.2 million (2019 – £0.8 million, 2018 – £nil) were also paid to other auditors in respect of audits of certain of the
company’s subsidiaries acquired during the year.
170 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
9. Employee costs
2020 2019 2018
£m £m £m
Wages and salaries 7,802 7,583 7,203
Social security costs 917 852 795
Pension and other post-employment costs, including augmentations (Note 30) 519 560 586
Cost of share-based incentive plans 393 432 393
Severance and other costs from integration and restructuring activities 618 428 463
10,249 9,855 9,440
The increase in wages and salaries included the impact of movements in exchange rates. The Group provides benefits to
employees, commensurate with local practice in individual countries, including, in some markets, healthcare insurance,
subsidised car schemes and personal life assurance.
The cost of share-based incentive plans is analysed as follows:
2020 2019 2018
£m £m £m
Share Value Plan 313 302 304
Performance Share Plan 64 58 49
Share option plans 4 4 4
Cash settled and other plans 12 68 36
393 432 393
The average monthly number of persons employed by the Group (including Directors) during the year was:
2020 2019 2018
Number Number Number
Manufacturing 34,898 36,653 37,296
Selling, general and administration 49,162 48,535 47,887
Research and development 11,824 12,026 11,668
95,884 97,214 96,851
The average monthly number of Group employees excludes temporary and contract staff. The numbers of Group employees at the
end of each financial year are given in the financial record on page 251.
The compensation of the Directors and Senior Management (members of the CET) in aggregate, was as follows:
2020 2019 2018
£m £m £m
Wages and salaries 23 28 29
Social security costs 4 4 3
Pension and other post-employment costs 3 3 3
Cost of share-based incentive plans 25 27 20
55 62 55
Further information on the remuneration of the Directors is given in the sections of the annual report on remuneration labelled as
audited within pages 112 to 138.
GSK Annual Report 2020 171Notes to the financial statements continued
10. Major restructuring costs
Within the Pharmaceuticals sector, the highly regulated manufacturing operations and supply chains and long lifecycle of the
business mean that restructuring programmes, particularly those that involve the rationalisation or closure of manufacturing or R&D
sites, are likely to take several years to complete.
Major restructuring costs are those related to specific Board-approved Major restructuring programmes, including integration costs
following material acquisitions, which are structural and are of a significant scale where the costs of individual or related projects
exceed £25 million.
The existing Combined restructuring and integration programme incorporates the previous Major Change programme, the
Pharmaceuticals restructuring programme and the restructuring and integration programme following the Novartis transaction in
2015. This programme is now substantially complete. In July 2018, the Board-approved a Major restructuring programme, designed
to significantly improve the competitiveness and efficiency of the Group’s cost base with savings delivered primarily through supply
chain optimisation and reductions in administrative costs. In February 2019, the Board approved a Major restructuring plan to
generate synergies from the integration of the Pfizer consumer healthcare business into GSK’s Consumer Healthcare business.
In January 2020, the Board approved a two-year Separation Preparation programme to prepare for the separation of GSK into two
companies.
The total restructuring costs of £1,532 million in 2020 were incurred in the following areas:
– Restructuring costs to prepare for separation of GSK into two companies
– Restructuring following the integration of the Pfizer consumer healthcare business into GSK Consumer Healthcare
– Continued implementation of the restructuring programme that started in July 2018, to simplify the operating models and improve
resource allocation of the Pharmaceutical and Consumer Healthcare supply chains
– Continued transformation of central functions, including GSK technology platforms and interfaces, to deliver greater digital
synergies, simplification of applications and staff reductions.
The analysis of the costs charged to operating profit under these programmes was as follows:
2020 2019 2018
£m £m £m
Increase in provision for Major restructuring programmes (see Note 31) 746 345 450
Amount of provision reversed unused (see Note 31) (96) (148) (99)
Impairment losses recognised 361 521 130
Other non-cash charges 104 99 72
Other cash costs 417 288 256
1,532 1,105 809
Provision reversals of £96 million (2019 – £148 million, 2018 – £99 million) reflected provision releases mainly for the Combined
restructuring and integration programme. Asset impairments of £361 million and other non-cash charges of £104 million principally
comprised fixed asset write-downs of manufacturing facilities and accelerated depreciation where asset lives have been shortened
in the supply chain manufacturing network as a result of the Major restructuring programmes. All other charges have been or will be
settled in cash and include site closure costs, consultancy and project management costs.
The analysis of Major restructuring charges by programme was as follows:
2020
Cash Non-cash Total
£m £m £m
Separation Preparation programme 625 216 841
Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture integration programme 298 28 326
2018 Major restructuring programme (including Tesaro) 105 210 315
Combined restructuring and integration programme 39 11 50
1,067 465 1,532
2019
Cash Non-cash Total
£m £m £m
Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture integration programme 248 4 252
2018 Major restructuring programme (including Tesaro) 227 572 799
Combined restructuring and integration programme 10 44 54
485 620 1,105
172 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
10. Major restructuring costs continued
The analysis of Major restructuring charges by income statement line was as follows:
2020 2019 2018
£m £m £m
Cost of sales 667 658 443
Selling, general and administration 659 332 315
Research and development 206 114 49
Other operating expense – 1 2
1,532 1,105 809
11. Finance income
2020 2019 2018
£m £m £m
Finance income arising from:
Financial assets measured at amortised cost 29 69 73
Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss 10 10 1
Net gains arising from the forward element of forward contracts in net investment hedge relationships 5 19 7
44 98 81
12. Finance expense
2020 2019 2018
£m £m £m
Finance expense arising on:
Financial liabilities at amortised cost (813) (832) (677)
Derivatives at fair value through profit or loss (7) (6) (38)
Net losses arising from:
Financial instruments mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss 353 (425) 55
Retranslation of loans (357) 424 (52)
Reclassification of hedges from other comprehensive income (2) (2) (2)
Unwinding of discounts on provisions (3) (8) (15)
Finance expense arising on lease liabilities (40) (39) (2)
Other finance expense (23) (24) (67)
(892) (912) (798)
Finance expense arising on derivatives at fair value through profit or loss relates to swap interest expense. The 2018 figure in
finance expense arising on lease liabilities related to interest arising on finance leases under the previous leasing standard, IAS 17,
which was originally reported in ‘Other finance expense’. In 2018, other finance expense included a £39 million charge for interest
relating to historical income tax settlements.
GSK Annual Report 2020 173Notes to the financial statements continued
13. Associates and joint ventures
The Group’s share of after-tax profits and losses of associates and joint ventures is set out below:
2020 2019 2018
£m £m £m
Share of after-tax profits of associates 33 85 28
Share of after-tax (losses)/profits of joint ventures – (11) 3
33 74 31
At 31 December 2020, the Group held one significant associate, Innoviva, Inc.
Summarised income statement information in respect of Innoviva is set out below. The Group’s 2020 share of after-tax profits of
associates and other comprehensive income includes a profit of £41 million and other comprehensive income of £nil in respect
of Innoviva.
The results of Innoviva included in the summarised income statement information below represent the estimated earnings of
Innoviva in the relevant periods, based on publicly available information at the balance sheet date. Innoviva’s turnover arises from
royalty income from GSK in relation to Relvar/Breo Ellipta, Anoro Ellipta and Trelegy Ellipta sales.
2020 2019 2018
£m £m £m
Turnover 253 193 183
Profit after taxation 174 116 134
Total comprehensive income 174 116 134
Aggregated financial information in respect of GSK’s share of other associated undertakings and joint ventures is set out below:
2020 2019 2018
£m £m £m
Share of turnover – 32 242
Share of after-tax losses (8) (5) (2)
Share of other comprehensive income 53 1 –
Share of total comprehensive income/(expense) 45 (5) (2)
The Group’s sales to associates and joint ventures were £nil in 2020 (2019 – £11 million; 2018 – £43 million).
174 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
14. Taxation
The Group’s tax charge is the sum of the total current and deferred tax expense.
2020 2019 2018
Taxation charge based on profits for the year £m £m £m
UK current year charge 30 149 234
Rest of World current year charge 1,177 1,407 1,426
Charge/(credit) in respect of prior periods 66 (420) (492)
Current taxation 1,273 1,136 1,168
Deferred taxation (693) (183) (414)
580 953 754
In 2020, GSK made payments of £235 million in UK corporation tax to HMRC. These amounts are for UK corporation tax only,
and do not include the various other business taxes borne in the UK by GSK each year.
The deferred tax credit in 2020 reflected the origination of current year expenses where offset against taxable profits in future
periods is probable. This relates primarily to the unwind of deferred tax liabilities on intangible assets, the recognition of current year
tax losses and the reversal of other temporary differences. In 2018, this also included an uplift in the tax carrying value of certain
Consumer Healthcare brands as a result of the acquisition of Novartis’ interest in the former Consumer Healthcare joint venture.
Significant prior year credits in 2019 and 2018 reflected the impact of the settlement of a number of open issues with tax
authorities in each period.
The following table reconciles the tax charge calculated at the UK statutory rate on the Group profit before tax with the actual tax
charge for the year.
2020 2020 2019 2019 2018 2018
Reconciliation of taxation on Group profits £m % £m % £m %
Profit before tax 6,968 6,221 4,800
UK statutory rate of taxation 1,324 19.0 1,182 19.0 912 19.0
Differences in overseas taxation rates 552 7.9 667 10.7 635 13.2
Benefit of intellectual property incentives (586) (8.4) (691) (11.1) (482) (10.0)
R&D credits (105) (1.5) (119) (1.9) (73) (1.5)
Fair value remeasurement of non-taxable put options (3) (0.0) (45) (0.7) 221 4.6
Tax losses where no benefit is recognised 18 0.3 15 0.2 24 0.5
Permanent differences on disposals and acquisitions (338) (4.9) 68 1.1 (7) (0.1)
Other permanent differences 98 1.4 119 1.9 53 1.1
Re-assessments of prior year estimates (228) (3.3) (364) (5.9) (436) (9.1)
Changes in tax rates (152) (2.2) 121 2.0 (93) (1.9)
Tax charge/tax rate 580 8.3 953 15.3 754 15.7
GSK has a substantial business presence in many countries around the globe. The impact of differences in overseas taxation rates
arose from profits being earned in countries with tax rates higher than the UK statutory rate, the most significant of which in 2020
were the US, Belgium, Germany, India and Japan. The adverse impact was partly offset by the benefit of intellectual property
incentives such as the UK Patent Box and Belgian Patent Income Deduction regimes, which provide a reduced rate of corporation
tax on profits earned from qualifying patents. We claim these incentives in the manner intended by the relevant statutory or
regulatory framework.
In 2020, ‘Changes in tax rates’ included credits in relation to the UK, where a reduction in the corporation tax rate from 19% to
17% was cancelled, and India, where the tax treatment of dividends changed with effect from 1 April 2020. The UK credit in 2020
partly reversed the expense in 2019 where a future benefit was provided at the formerly enacted corporation tax rate of 17%.
Permanent differences on disposals and acquisitions in 2020 reflects the tax impact of the disposal of Horlicks and other
Consumer Healthcare brands to Unilever and subsequent disposal of shares received in Hindustan Unilever.
The Group’s 2020 tax rate of 8.3% has also been influenced by the reassessment of open issues with tax authorities in various
jurisdictions. The re-assessment of prior year estimates includes both current and deferred tax.
Future tax charges, and therefore our effective tax rate, may be affected by factors such as acquisitions, disposals, restructurings,
the location of R&D activity, tax regime reforms and resolution of open matters as we continue to bring our tax affairs up to date
around the world.
GSK Annual Report 2020 175Notes to the financial statements continued
14. Taxation continued
2020 2019 2018
Tax on items charged to equity and statement of comprehensive income £m £m £m
Current taxation
Share-based payments (14) 1 –
Defined benefit plans (18) 16 (2)
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges 12 – –
Fair value movements on equity investments 89 – –
69 17 (2)
Deferred taxation
Share-based payments 18 18 2
Defined benefit plans (51) 173 (144)
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges 6 16 (2)
Fair value movements on equity investments 131 (95) 10
104 112 (134)
Total credit/(charge) to equity and statement of comprehensive income 173 129 (136)
All of the above items have been charged to the statement of comprehensive income except for tax on share-based payments.
Issues relating to taxation
The integrated nature of the Group’s worldwide operations involves significant investment in research and strategic manufacture at
a limited number of locations, with consequential cross-border supply routes into numerous end-markets. In line with current OECD
guidelines we base our transfer pricing policy on the ‘arm’s length’ principle. However, different tax authorities may seek to attribute
further profit to activities being undertaken in their jurisdiction potentially resulting in double taxation. The Group also has open
items in several jurisdictions concerning such matters as the deductibility of particular expenses and the tax treatment of certain
business transactions. GSK applies a risk based approach to determine the transactions most likely to be subject to challenge and
the probability that the Group would be able to obtain compensatory adjustments under international tax treaties.
The calculation of the Group’s total tax charge therefore necessarily involves a degree of estimation and judgement in respect of
certain items whose tax treatment cannot be finally determined until resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority or,
as appropriate, through a formal legal process. At 31 December 2020 the Group had recognised provisions of £856 million in
respect of such uncertain tax positions (2019 – £933 million). The decrease in recognised provisions during 2020 was driven by
the reassessment of estimates and the utilisation of provisions for uncertain tax positions following the settlement of a number of
open issues with tax authorities in various jurisdictions. Whilst the ultimate liability for such matters may vary from the amounts
provided and is dependent upon the outcome of agreements with the relevant tax authorities, or litigation where appropriate, the
Group continues to believe that it has made appropriate provision for periods which are open and not yet agreed by the tax
authorities.
A provision for deferred tax liabilities of £150 million as at 31 December 2020 (2019 – £198 million) has been made in respect of
taxation that would be payable on the remittance of profits by certain overseas subsidiaries. Whilst the aggregate amount of
unremitted profits at the balance sheet date was approximately £17 billion (2019 – £19 billion), the majority of these unremitted
profits would not be subject to tax (including withholding tax) on repatriation, as UK legislation relating to company distributions
provides for exemption from tax for most overseas profits, subject to certain exceptions. Deferred tax is not provided on temporary
differences of £974 million (2019 – £326 million) arising on unremitted profits as management has the ability to control any future
reversal and does not consider such a reversal to be probable.
Continued focus on tax reform is expected in 2021 and future years driven by the OECD’s project to address the tax challenges
arising from the digitalisation of the economy. This may result in significant changes to established tax principles and an increase
in tax authority disputes. In turn, this could adversely affect GSK’s effective tax rate or could result in higher cash tax liabilities.
176 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
14. Taxation continued
Movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities
Pensions & Share Other
Accelerated other post option net
capital Intangible Contingent Intra-Group employment Tax and award temporary
allowances assets consideration profit benefits losses schemes differences Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2019 (295) (959) 834 1,029 694 447 71 950 2,771
Exchange adjustments 17 88 – (8) (40) (8) (1) 55 103
Credit/(charge) to income statement 35 (204) (77) 59 9 225 (7) 143 183
Credit/(charge) to statement of
comprehensive income and equity – – – – 186 – 18 (92) 112
Acquisitions and disposals 1 (3,117) – 40 15 278 – (60) (2,843)
R&D credits utilisation – – – – – – – (40) (40)
At 31 December 2019 (242) (4,192) 757 1,120 864 942 81 956 286
Exchange adjustments (9) 41 – (29) 4 (2) (3) (57) (55)
(Charge)/credit to income statement (45) 194 86 (67) (44) 120 (5) 454 693
Credit/(charge) to statement of
comprehensive income and equity – – – – 50 – (13) (141) (104)
Acquisitions and disposals – (25) – – – – – – (25)
R&D credits utilisation – – – – – – – (108) (108)
At 31 December 2020 (296) (3,982) 843 1,024 874 1,060 60 1,104 687
Deferred tax liabilities provided in relation to intangible assets predominately relate to temporary differences arising on assets and
liabilities acquired as part of historic business combinations. Acquisitions and disposals in 2019 includes deferred tax liabilities of
£2,591 million related to the Pfizer consumer healthcare business acquisition and £252 million related to the Tesaro acquisition.
The Group continues to recognise deferred tax assets on future obligations in respect of contingent consideration amounts payable
to minority shareholders. These payments are tax deductible at the point in time at which payment is made.
A deferred tax asset is recognised on intra-Group profits arising on inter-company inventory which are eliminated within the
consolidated accounts. As intra-Group profits are not eliminated from the individual entities’ tax returns a temporary difference
arises that will reverse at the point in time inventory is sold externally.
The deferred tax asset of £1,060 million (2019 – £942 million) recognised on tax losses relates to trading losses. Such deferred tax
assets are only recognised where it is probable that future taxable profit will be available to utilise losses, as supported by product
level forecasts. Other net temporary differences included accrued expenses for which a tax deduction is only available on a paid basis.
Deferred tax asset and liabilities are recognised on the balance sheet as follows:
2020 2019
£m £m
Deferred tax assets 4,287 4,096
Deferred tax liabilities (3,600) (3,810)
687 286
2020 2019
Unrecognised Unrecognised
deferred tax deferred tax
Tax losses asset Tax losses asset
Unrecognised tax losses £m £m £m £m
Trading losses expiring:
Within 10 years 962 181 556 117
More than 10 years 414 51 838 108
Available indefinitely 265 47 159 27
At 31 December 1,641 279 1,553 252
Capital losses expiring:
Available indefinitely 2,287 419 2,148 355
At 31 December 2,287 419 2,148 355
GSK Annual Report 2020 177Notes to the financial statements continued
15. Earnings per share
2020 2019 2018
pence pence pence
Basic earnings per share 115.5 93.9 73.7
Diluted earnings per share 114.1 92.6 72.9
Basic earnings per share has been calculated by dividing the profit attributable to shareholders by the weighted average number of
shares in issue during the period after deducting shares held by the ESOP Trusts and Treasury shares. The trustees have waived
their rights to dividends on the shares held by the ESOP Trusts.
Diluted earnings per share has been calculated after adjusting the weighted average number of shares used in the basic calculation
to assume the conversion of all potentially dilutive shares. A potentially dilutive share forms part of the employee share schemes
where its exercise price is below the average market price of GSK shares during the period and any performance conditions
attaching to the scheme have been met at the balance sheet date.
The numbers of shares used in calculating basic and diluted earnings per share are reconciled below.
2020 2019 2018
Weighted average number of shares in issue
millions millions millions
Basic 4,976 4,947 4,914
Dilution for share options and awards 62 69 57
Diluted 5,038 5,016 4,971
16. Dividends
2020 2019 2018
Dividend Total Dividend Total Dividend Total
per share dividend per share dividend per share dividend
Paid/payable (pence) £m Paid (pence) £m Paid (pence) £m
First interim 9 July 2020 19 946 11 July 2019 19 940 12 July 2018 19 934
Second interim 8 October 2020 19 946 10 October 2019 19 941 11 October 2018 19 934
Third interim 14 January 2021 19 946 9 January 2020 19 941 10 January 2019 19 935
Fourth interim 8 April 2021 23 1,146 9 April 2020 23 1,144 11 April 2019 23 1,137
Total 80 3,984 80 3,966 80 3,940
Under IFRS, interim dividends are only recognised in the financial statements when paid and not when declared. GSK normally
pays a dividend two quarters after the quarter to which it relates and one quarter after it is declared. The 2020 financial statements
recognise those dividends paid in 2020, namely the third and fourth interim dividends for 2019, and the first and second interim
dividends for 2020.
The amounts recognised in each year were as follows:
2020 2019 2018
£m £m £m
Dividends to shareholders 3,977 3,953 3,927
178 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
17. Property, plant and equipment
Plant,
Land and equipment Assets in
buildings and vehicles construction Total
£m £m £m £m
Cost at 31 December 2018 7,811 12,537 2,140 22,488
Implementation of IFRS 16 (64) (106) – (170)
At 31 December 2018, as adjusted 7,747 12,431 2,140 22,318
Exchange adjustments (254) (381) (70) (705)
Additions through business combinations 149 177 34 360
Other additions 42 154 1,084 1,280
Capitalised borrowing costs – – 25 25
Disposals and write-offs (34) (528) (11) (573)
Reclassifications 243 919 (1,231) (69)
Transfer to assets held for sale (261) (711) (65) (1,037)
Cost at 31 December 2019 7,632 12,061 1,906 21,599
Exchange adjustments 106 121 10 237
Additions through business combinations – 5 – 5
Other additions 29 147 1,052 1,228
Capitalised borrowing costs – – 15 15
Disposals and write-offs (336) (875) (29) (1,240)
Reclassifications 189 840 (1,058) (29)
Transfer to assets held for sale (132) (194) (6) (332)
Cost at 31 December 2020 7,488 12,105 1,890 21,483
Depreciation at 31 December 2018 (3,233) (7,534) – (10,767)
Implementation of IFRS 16 30 42 – 72
At 31 December 2018, as adjusted (3,203) (7,492) – (10,695)
Exchange adjustments 74 196 – 270
Charge for the year (265) (752) – (1,017)
Disposals and write-offs 19 380 – 399
Transfer to assets held for sale 159 477 – 636
Depreciation at 31 December 2019 (3,216) (7,191) – (10,407)
Exchange adjustments (49) (77) – (126)
Charge for the year (271) (718) – (989)
Disposals and write-offs 154 716 – 870
Transfer to assets held for sale 72 130 – 202
Depreciation at 31 December 2020 (3,310) (7,140) – (10,450)
Impairment at 31 December 2018 (174) (421) (68) (663)
Implementation of IFRS 16 – – – –
At 31 December 2018, as adjusted (174) (421) (68) (663)
Exchange adjustments 13 11 6 30
Disposals and write-offs 2 77 36 115
Impairment losses (312) (329) (38) (679)
Reversal of impairments 2 8 – 10
Transfer to assets held for sale 90 209 44 343
Impairment at 31 December 2019 (379) (445) (20) (844)
Exchange adjustments (6) – 1 (5)
Disposals and write-offs 190 124 16 330
Impairment losses (147) (303) (27) (477)
Reversal of impairments 13 18 3 34
Transfer to assets held for sale 49 55 1 105
Impairment at 31 December 2020 (280) (551) (26) (857)
Total depreciation and impairment at 31 December 2019 (3,595) (7,636) (20) (11,251)
Total depreciation and impairment at 31 December 2020 (3,590) (7,691) (26) (11,307)
Net book value at 1 January 2019 4,404 4,582 2,072 11,058
Net book value at 31 December 2019 4,037 4,425 1,886 10,348
Net book value at 31 December 2020 3,898 4,414 1,864 10,176
GSK Annual Report 2020 179Notes to the financial statements continued
17. Property, plant and equipment continued
The weighted average interest rate for capitalised borrowing costs in the year was 3% (2019 – 3%). Disposals and write-offs in
the year included a number of assets with nil net book value that are no longer in use in the business.
The impairment losses principally arose from decisions to rationalise facilities and were calculated based on fair value less costs
of disposal. The fair value less costs of disposal valuation methodology uses significant inputs which are not based on observable
market data, and therefore this valuation technique is classified as level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. These calculations determine
the net present value of the projected risk-adjusted, post-tax cash flows of the relevant asset or cash generating unit, applying a
discount rate of the Group post-tax weighted average cost of capital (WACC) of 7%, adjusted where appropriate for specific
segment, country and currency risk.
Assets that continue to be used by the Group are generally assessed as part of their associated cash generating unit on a value
in use basis. For value in use calculations, the post-tax cash flows do not include the impact of future uncommitted restructuring
plans or improvements. Where an impairment is indicated and a pre-tax cash flow calculation is expected to give a materially
different result, the test would be reperformed using pre-tax cash flows and a pre-tax discount rate. The Group WACC is
equivalent to a pre-tax discount rate of approximately 9%.
The net impairment losses have been charged to cost of sales: £398 million (2019 – £624 million), R&D: £3 million
(2019 – £1 million) and SG&A: £42 million (2019 – £44 million), and included £343 million (2019 – £502 million) arising from
the Major restructuring programmes.
Reversals of impairment arose from subsequent reviews of the impaired assets where the conditions which gave rise to the original
impairments were deemed no longer to apply. All of the reversals have been credited to cost of sales.
During 2020, £29 million (2019 – £69 million) of computer software was reclassified from assets in construction to intangible
assets on becoming ready for use.
18. Right of use assets
Land and Plant and
buildings equipment Vehicles Total
£m £m £m £m
Net book value at 1 January 2019 907 27 137 1,071
Exchange adjustments (28) (2) (6) (36)
Additions through business combinations 66 11 2 79
Other additions 60 1 71 132
Depreciation (145) (8) (61) (214)
Disposals (37) (20) (7) (64)
Impairments (2) – – (2)
Reclassifications – 13 (13) –
Net book value at 31 December 2019 821 22 123 966
Exchange adjustments (11) 1 1 (9)
Other additions 119 2 66 187
Depreciation (152) (5) (68) (225)
Disposals (73) (2) (9) (84)
Impairments (3) – – (3)
Reclassifications (2) – – (2)
Net book value at 31 December 2020 699 18 113 830
The total cash outflow for leases amounted to £227 million. There were no significant lease commitments for leases not
commenced at year-end.
An analysis of lease liabilities is set out in Note 29, ‘Net debt’.
180 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
19. Goodwill
2020 2019
£m £m
Cost at 1 January 10,562 5,789
Exchange adjustments (54) (277)
Additions through business combinations (Note 40) 124 5,023
Transfer (to)/from assets held for sale (35) 27
Cost at 31 December 10,597 10,562
Net book value at 1 January 10,562 5,789
Net book value at 31 December 10,597 10,562
Goodwill is allocated to the Group’s segments as follows:
2020 2019
£m £m
Pharmaceuticals 4,245 4,316
Vaccines 1,295 1,280
Consumer Healthcare 5,057 4,966
Net book value at 31 December 10,597 10,562
The recoverable amounts of the cash generating units are assessed using a fair value less costs of disposal model. Fair value less
costs of disposal is calculated using a discounted cash flow approach, with a post-tax discount rate applied to the projected
risk-adjusted post-tax cash flows and terminal value.
The discount rate used is based on the Group WACC of 7%, as most cash generating units have integrated operations across
large parts of the Group. The discount rate is adjusted where appropriate for specific segment, country and currency risks. The
valuation methodology uses significant inputs which are not based on observable market data, therefore this valuation technique is
classified as level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.
Details relating to the discounted cash flow models used in the impairment tests of the Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and Consumer
Healthcare cash generating units are as follows:
Valuation basis Fair value less costs of disposal
Key assumptions Sales growth rates
Profit margins
Terminal growth rate
Discount rate
Taxation rate
Determination of assumptions Growth rates are internal forecasts based on both internal and external market information.
Margins reflect past experience, adjusted for expected changes.
Terminal growth rates based on management’s estimate of future long-term average growth rates.
Discount rates based on Group WACC, adjusted where appropriate.
Taxation rates based on appropriate rates for each region.
Period of specific projected cash flows Five years
Terminal growth rate and discount rate Terminal growth rate Discount rate
Pharmaceuticals 1% p.a. 7.5%
Vaccines 1% p.a. 7.5%
Consumer Healthcare 2% p.a. 6%
The terminal growth rates do not exceed the long-term projected growth rates for the relevant markets, reflect the impact of future
generic competition and take account of new product launches.
Goodwill is monitored for impairment at the segmental level. In each case the valuations indicated sufficient headroom such that a
reasonably possible change to key assumptions is unlikely to result in an impairment of the related goodwill.
The Consumer Healthcare cash generating unit also comprises a collection of smaller cash generating units including brands with
indefinite lives with a carrying value of £18.4 billion (2019 – £19.6 billion).
Details of indefinite life brands are given in Note 20, ‘Other intangible assets’.
GSK Annual Report 2020 181Notes to the financial statements continued
20. Other intangible assets
Licences,
patents,
Computer amortised Indefinite life
software brands etc. brands Total
£m £m £m £m
Cost at 1 January 2019 2,365 16,166 9,056 27,587
Exchange adjustments (37) (418) (1,037) (1,492)
Capitalised development costs – 239 – 239
Capitalised borrowing costs 1 – – 1
Additions through business combinations 31 3,091 12,357 15,479
Other additions 197 465 – 662
Disposals and asset write-offs (235) (7) – (242)
Transfer to assets held for sale (7) (62) (227) (296)
Reclassifications 82 242 (255) 69
Cost at 31 December 2019 2,397 19,716 19,894 42,007
Exchange adjustments (1) (7) (74) (82)
Capitalised development costs – 313 – 313
Additions through business combinations 2 – – 2
Other additions 240 494 – 734
Disposals and asset write-offs (260) (20) – (280)
Transfer to assets held for sale (4) (246) (635) (885)
Reclassifications 29 572 (572) 29
Cost at 31 December 2020 2,403 20,822 18,613 41,838
Amortisation at 1 January 2019 (1,307) (6,413) – (7,720)
Exchange adjustments 19 123 – 142
Charge for the year (233) (870) – (1,103)
Disposals and asset write-offs 215 4 – 219
Transfer to assets held for sale 4 42 – 46
Amortisation at 31 December 2019 (1,302) (7,114) – (8,416)
Exchange adjustments (3) 28 – 25
Charge for the year (241) (896) – (1,137)
Disposals and asset write-offs 221 8 – 229
Transfer to assets held for sale 3 42 – 45
Amortisation at 31 December 2020 (1,322) (7,932) – (9,254)
Impairment at 1 January 2019 (12) (2,329) (324) (2,665)
Exchange adjustments 3 70 – 73
Impairment losses (49) (84) (3) (136)
Reversal of impairments – 10 – 10
Disposals and asset write-offs 19 3 – 22
Transfer to assets held for sale 2 5 53 60
Impairment at 31 December 2019 (37) (2,325) (274) (2,636)
Exchange adjustments – 39 1 40
Impairment losses (29) (255) (11) (295)
Reversal of impairments – 38 – 38
Disposals and asset write-offs 38 – – 38
Transfer to assets held for sale – 55 – 55
Reclassification – (39) 39 –
Impairment at 31 December 2020 (28) (2,487) (245) (2,760)
Total amortisation and impairment at 31 December 2019 (1,339) (9,439) (274) (11,052)
Total amortisation and impairment at 31 December 2020 (1,350) (10,419) (245) (12,014)
Net book value at 1 January 2019 1,046 7,424 8,732 17,202
Net book value at 31 December 2019 1,058 10,277 19,620 30,955
Net book value at 31 December 2020 1,053 10,403 18,368 29,824
The weighted average interest rate for capitalised borrowing costs in the year was 3% (2019 – 3%).
The net book value of computer software included £612 million (2019 – £560 million) of internally generated costs.
The carrying value at 31 December 2020 of intangible assets, for which impairments have been charged or reversed in the year,
following those impairments or reversals, was £272 million (2019 – £175 million).
The patent expiry dates of the Group’s most significant assets, where relevant, are set out on pages 258 and 259.
182 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
20. Other intangible assets continued
Amortisation and impairment losses, net of reversals, have been charged in the income statement as follows:
Amortisation Net impairment losses
2020 2019 2020 2019
£m £m £m £m
Cost of sales 779 781 21 34
Selling, general and administration 167 163 17 43
Research and development 191 159 219 49
1,137 1,103 257 126
Licences, patents, amortised brands etc. includes a large number of acquired licences, patents, know-how agreements and
marketing rights, which are either marketed or in use, or still in development. Note 40, ‘Acquisitions and disposals’ gives details
of additions through business combinations in the year. The book values of the largest individual items are as follows:
2020 2019
£m £m
Tesaro Assets 2,669 2,878
Meningitis portfolio 2,114 2,139
Dolutegravir 1,177 1,280
Benlysta 745 834
Lamisil 275 –
Merck Assets 264 264
BMS Assets 239 286
Fluarix/FluLaval 219 237
Okairos 205 175
Stiefel trade name 180 204
Others 2,316 1,980
10,403 10,277
Tesaro assets comprise Zejula, the currently marketed monotherapy, as well as combination therapies. The Meningitis portfolio
includes Menveo, Bexsero, Men ABCWY and Menjugate. Lamisil has been moved into licences, patents, amortised brands etc.
following the decision to start amortisation during 2020. GSK has divested the Breathe Right brand during the year.
Indefinite life brands comprise a portfolio of Consumer Healthcare products primarily acquired with the acquisitions of Sterling
Winthrop, Inc. in 1994, Block Drug Company, Inc. in 2001, CNS, Inc. in 2006, the Novartis consumer healthcare business in 2015
and the Pfizer consumer healthcare business in 2019. The book values of the major brands are as follows:
2020 2019
£m £m
Advil 3,349 3,408
Voltaren 2,725 2,725
Centrum 1,824 1,808
Caltrate 1,678 1,648
Otrivin 1,385 1,385
Preparation H 1,139 1,171
Robitussin 1,111 1,138
Nexium 668 682
Fenistil 598 598
Chapstick 512 523
Emergen-C 433 447
Theraflu 433 438
Panadol 396 397
Lamisil – 291
Sensodyne 270 270
Breathe Right – 251
Others 1,847 2,440
18,368 19,620
GSK Annual Report 2020 183Notes to the financial statements continued
20. Other intangible assets continued
Each of these brands is considered to have an indefinite life, given the strength and durability of the brand and the level of
marketing support. The brands are in relatively similar stable and profitable market sectors, with similar risk profiles, and their
size, diversification and market shares mean that the risk of market-related factors causing a reduction in the lives of the brands
is considered to be relatively low. The Group is not aware of any material legal, regulatory, contractual, competitive, economic or
other factors which could limit their useful lives. Accordingly, they are not amortised.
Each brand is tested annually for impairment and other amortised intangible assets are tested when indicators of impairment arise.
This testing applies a fair value less costs of disposal methodology, generally using post-tax cash flow forecasts with a terminal
value calculation and a discount rate equal to the Group post-tax WACC of 7%, adjusted where appropriate for specific segment,
country and currency risks. This valuation methodology uses significant inputs which are not based on observable market data, and
therefore this valuation technique is classified as level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. The main assumptions include future sales price
and volume growth, product contribution, the future expenditure required to maintain the product’s marketability and registration
in the relevant jurisdictions and exchange rates. These assumptions are based on past experience and are reviewed as part of
management’s budgeting and strategic planning cycle for changes in market conditions and sales erosion through competition.
The terminal growth rates applied of between -3% and 3% are management’s estimates of future long-term average growth rates
of the relevant markets. In each case the valuations indicate sufficient headroom such that a reasonably possible change to key
assumptions is unlikely to result in an impairment of these intangible assets.
21. Investments in associates and joint ventures
Joint 2020 Joint 2019
ventures Associates Total ventures Associates Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 15 299 314 19 217 236
Exchange adjustments – (9) (9) (1) (9) (10)
Additions – 4 4 16 11 27
Disposals – – – (1) – (1)
Distributions received – (31) (31) – (7) (7)
Net fair value movements through Other comprehensive income – 53 53 – – –
Other movements – – – (7) 2 (5)
Profit/(loss) after tax recognised in the consolidated income statement – 33 33 (11) 85 74
At 31 December 15 349 364 15 299 314
The Group held one significant associate at 31 December 2020, Innoviva, Inc. At 31 December 2020, the Group owned 32 million
shares or 31.6% of Innoviva, which is a biopharmaceutical company listed on NASDAQ. Innoviva partnered with GSK in the
development of the long acting beta agonist, vilanterol, and currently receives royalty income from sales of products that contain
this component, namely Relvar/Breo Ellipta and Anoro Ellipta. It also has a 15% economic interest in royalties paid by GSK on
sales of Trelegy Ellipta. The remaining 85% of the economic interest in these royalties is held by Theravance Biopharma Inc., in
which the Group holds 15% of the common stock. The investment in Innoviva had a market value of £291 million at 31 December
2020 (2019 – £343 million).
Summarised balance sheet information, based on information published post the balance sheet date, in respect of Innoviva is set
out below:
At 31 December At 31 December
2020 2019
£m £m
Non-current assets 482 222
Current assets 251 326
Current liabilities (4) (4)
Non-current liabilities (283) (286)
Net assets 446 258
The carrying value of the Group’s investment in Innoviva is analysed as follows:
2020 2019
£m £m
Interest in net assets of associate 141 82
Goodwill 85 88
Fair value and other adjustments 65 91
Carrying value at 31 December 291 261
184 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
22. Other investments
Investments Investments
designated as Investments designated as Investments
measured at measured at measured at measured at
FVTOCI FVTPL 2020 FVTOCI FVTPL 2019
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 1,781 56 1,837 1,250 72 1,322
Additions 409 3,205 3,614 274 3 277
Net fair value movements through Other comprehensive income 1,318 – 1,318 314 – 314
Net fair value movements through profit or loss – (438) (438) – (14) (14)
Disposals and settlements (569) (2,702) (3,271) (57) (5) (62)
At 31 December 2,939 121 3,060 1,781 56 1,837
Other investments comprise non-current equity investments which are recorded at fair value at each balance sheet date. For
investments traded in an active market, the fair value is determined by reference to the relevant stock exchange quoted bid price.
For other investments, the fair value is estimated by management with reference to relevant available information, including the
current market value of similar instruments, recent financing rounds and discounted cash flows of the underlying net assets. Net
fair value movements include the impact of exchange (losses of £91 million through Other comprehensive income and £nil
through profit or loss) (2019 – losses of £66 million and £2 million respectively). Other investments include listed investments of
£2,281 million (2019 – £1,128 million).
GSK has elected to designate the majority of its equity investments as measured at fair value through other comprehensive
income (FVTOCI). The most significant of these investments held at 31 December 2020 were in CureVac AG in which the Group
holds 8.4% of the common stock, Crispr Therapeutics AG in which the Group holds 4.6%, Lyell Immunopharma, Inc. in which the
Group holds 11.7%, 23andMe, Inc. in which the Group holds 12.4% and Turning Point Therapeutics, Inc. in which the Group holds
4.7%. These investments had a fair value at 31 December 2020 of £887 million, £361 million (2019 – £148 million),
£261 million (2019 – £155 million), £220 million (2019 – £227 million) and £201 million (2019 – £102 million) respectively. The
other investments include equity stakes in companies with which GSK has research collaborations and in companies which provide
access to biotechnology developments of potential interest. In June 2020, GSK issued US$ US notes which are exchangeable at
the option of the note holders at any time until maturity of the notes in June 2023 for shares held by GSK in Theravance Biopharma,
Inc. Upon exchange of the notes, GSK expects to deliver the shares but may, at its option under certain circumstances, deliver cash
or a combination of Theravance Biopharma shares and cash. The Theravance Biopharma shares are measured at FVTOCI and had
a fair value at 31 December 2020 of £126 million.
On disposal of equity investments measured at FVTOCI, the accumulated fair value movements are reclassified from the fair value
reserve to retained earnings. Investments with a fair value of £569 million (2019 – £57 million) were disposed of during the year.
The cumulative gain on these investments after tax was £163 million (2019 – £4 million).
Certain other investments, such as investments in funds with limited lives and investments acquired with an intention to sell, are
measured at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL). Additions and disposals of investments measured at FVTPL in 2020 include
the acquisition of shares in Hindustan Unilever Limited on the merger of GSK’s Indian listed Consumer Healthcare entity with
Hindustan Unilever and the subsequent divestment of those shares.
23. Other non-current assets
2020 2019
£m £m
Amounts receivable under insurance contracts 756 743
Pension schemes in surplus 183 127
Other receivables 102 150
1,041 1,020
Amounts receivable under insurance contacts are held at cash surrender value with movements through profit or loss.
Within the other receivables of £102 million (2019 – £150 million), £67 million (2019 – £120 million) is classified as financial assets
of which £30 million (2019 – £44 million) is classified as fair value through profit or loss. On the remaining balance of £37 million
(2019 – £76 million), the expected credit loss allowance was immaterial at 31 December 2020 and 2019.
GSK Annual Report 2020 185Notes to the financial statements continued
24. Inventories
2020 2019
£m £m
Raw materials and consumables 1,170 1,195
Work in progress 2,395 2,505
Finished goods 2,431 2,247
5,996 5,947
25. Trade and other receivables
2020 2019
£m £m
Trade receivables, net of loss allowance 5,549 5,487
Accrued income 13 7
Other prepayments 359 316
Interest receivable 3 3
Employee loans and advances 11 13
Other receivables 1,017 1,376
6,952 7,202
Trade receivables included £nil (2019 – £nil) due from associates and joint ventures. Other receivables included £nil (2019 – £nil)
due from associates and joint ventures.
2020 2019
Loss allowance
£m £m
At 1 January 130 128
Exchange adjustments (4) (3)
Charge for the year 41 16
Subsequent recoveries of amounts provided for (8) (5)
Utilised (8) (6)
At 31 December 151 130
Of the total trade receivables balance, £50 million (2019 – £110 million) was considered credit impaired, against which an
£20 million (2019 – £11 million) expected credit loss allowance has been applied. No amount was purchased or originated
credit impaired.
Within the other receivables of £1,017 million (2019 – £1,376 million), £402 million (2019 – £707 million) was classified as
financial assets of which £nil (2019 – £nil) was classified as fair value through profit and loss. On the remaining balance of
£402 million (2019 – £707 million), an expected credit loss allowance of £6 million (2019 – £8 million) was recognised at
31 December 2020 with no charge reported in profit or loss during the year.
For more discussion on credit risk practices, please refer to Note 43.
186 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
26. Cash and cash equivalents
2020 2019
£m £m
Cash at bank and in hand 1,762 795
Short-term deposits 4,530 3,912
6,292 4,707
In addition, £nil (2019 – £507 million) of cash and cash equivalents has been reported in Assets held for sale, see Note 27,
‘Assets held for sale’.
Cash and cash equivalents included £0.2 billion (2019 – £0.2 billion) not available for general use due to restrictions applying
in the subsidiaries where it is held. Restrictions include exchange controls and taxes on repatriation.
27. Assets held for sale
2020 2019
£m £m
Property, plant and equipment 25 80
Right of use assets – 7
Lease liabilities – (7)
Goodwill – 124
Other intangibles 62 175
Inventory 19 109
Cash and cash equivalents – 507
Other – (122)
106 873
Non-current assets and disposal groups are transferred to Assets held for sale when it is expected that their carrying amounts
will be recovered principally through disposal and a sale is considered highly probable. They are held at the lower of carrying
amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Included within Assets held for sale is inventory written down to fair value less costs to sell of £19 million (2019 – £109 million).
The valuation methodology used significant inputs which were not based on observable market data and therefore this valuation
is classified as level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.
Intangible assets of £785 million were transferred from Other intangibles during the year. The intangible assets held for sale
remaining at 31 December 2020 of £62 million is after impairments, exchange movements and assets divested during the year.
Assets held for sale at 31 December 2019 primarily comprised the disposal group for ThermaCare, which had been acquired
from Pfizer in 2019 as part of its consumer healthcare business and was to be divested to meet anti-trust requirements, and the
disposal group for Horlicks and other Consumer Healthcare nutritional products in India and a number of other countries. The
divestments of both of these disposal groups were completed in 2020.
GSK Annual Report 2020 187Notes to the financial statements continued
28. Trade and other payables
2020 2019
£m £m
Trade payables 4,357 4,144
Wages and salaries 1,367 1,470
Social security 159 164
ViiV Healthcare put option 960 1,011
Other payables 409 515
Deferred income 361 158
Customer return and rebate accruals 5,775 5,108
Other accruals 2,452 2,369
15,840 14,939
Trade and other payables included £65 million (2019 – £63 million) due to associates and joint ventures. The Group provides
limited supplier financing arrangements to certain customers. The amounts involved at 31 December 2020 were not material.
Revenue recognised in the year that was included in deferred income at 1 January 2020 was £33 million (2019 – £72 million).
Customer return and rebate accruals are provided for by the Group at the point of sale in respect of the estimated rebates,
discounts or allowances payable to customers, and included £4,686 million (2019 – £4,200 million) in respect of US
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines, as more fully described in the Group financial review on page 75. Accruals are made at the time of
sale but the actual amounts paid are based on claims made some time after the initial recognition of the sale. As the amounts are
estimated, they may not fully reflect the final outcome and are subject to change dependent upon, amongst other things, the types
of buying group and product sales mix. The level of accrual is reviewed and adjusted quarterly in light of historical experience of
actual amounts paid and any changes in arrangements. Future events could cause the assumptions on which the accruals are
based to change, which could affect the future results of the Group.
Pfizer’s put option over its shareholding in ViiV Healthcare is currently exercisable. Pfizer may request an IPO of ViiV Healthcare
at any time and if either GSK does not consent to such IPO or an offering is not completed within nine months, Pfizer could
require GSK to acquire its shareholding. The amount of the liability for this put option, which is held on the gross redemption
basis, is derived from an internal valuation of the ViiV Healthcare business, utilising both discounted forecast future cash flow
and multiples-based methodologies.
The table below shows on an indicative basis the income statement and balance sheet sensitivity of the Pfizer put option to
reasonably possible changes in key assumptions.
2020 2019
Increase/(decrease) in financial liability and loss/(gain) in Income statement £m £m
10% increase in sales forecasts 117 119
10% decrease in sales forecasts (116) (118)
10 cent appreciation of US Dollar 52 58
10 cent depreciation of US Dollar (45) (49)
10 cent appreciation of Euro 42 37
10 cent depreciation of Euro (34) (31)
An explanation of the accounting for ViiV Healthcare is set out on page 52.
188 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
29. Net debt
2020 2019
Listing exchange £m £m
Current assets:
Liquid investments 78 79
Cash and cash equivalents 6,292 4,707
Cash and cash equivalents reported in Assets held for sale – 507
6,370 5,293
Short-term borrowings:
Commercial paper (17) (3,586)
Bank loans, overdrafts and other (1,128) (434)
Drawn bank facility – (1,000)
EURIBOR +0.20% € Euro Medium Term Note 2020 London Stock Exchange – (638)
0.000% € Euro Medium Term Note 2020 London Stock Exchange – (1,020)
LIBOR +0.35% US$ US Medium Term Note 2021 New York Stock Exchange (549) –
EURIBOR +60% € Euro Medium Term Note 2021 London Stock Exchange (1,351) –
0.000% € Euro Medium Term Note 2021 London Stock Exchange (450) –
Lease liabilities (230) (240)
(3,725) (6,918)
Long-term borrowings:
3.125% US$ US Medium Term Note 2021 New York Stock Exchange – (944)
LIBOR +0.35% US$ US Medium Term Note 2021 New York Stock Exchange – (567)
EURIBOR +0.60% € Euro Medium Term Note 2021 London Stock Exchange – (1,281)
0.000% € Euro Medium Term Note 2021 London Stock Exchange – (426)
2.850% US$ US Medium Term Note 2022 New York Stock Exchange (1,463) (1,509)
2.875% US$ US Medium Term Note 2022 New York Stock Exchange (1,097) (1,132)
2.800% US$ US Medium Term Note 2023 New York Stock Exchange (913) (941)
0.125% € Euro Medium Term Note 2023 London Stock Exchange (673) –
Exchangeable US$ US Medium Term Note 2023 New York Stock Exchange (199) –
3.375% US$ US Medium Term Note 2023 New York Stock Exchange (912) (941)
0.000% € Euro Medium Term Note 2023 London Stock Exchange (450) (425)
0.534% US$ US Medium Term Note 2023 New York Stock Exchange (913) –
3.000% US$ US Medium Term Note 2024 New York Stock Exchange (728) (751)
1.375% € Euro Medium Term Note 2024 London Stock Exchange (894) (844)
4.000% € Euro Medium Term Note 2025 London Stock Exchange (670) (633)
3.625% US$ US Medium Term Note 2025 New York Stock Exchange (728) (751)
1.000% € Euro Medium Term Note 2026 London Stock Exchange (628) (593)
1.250% € Euro Medium Term Note 2026 London Stock Exchange (896) (846)
3.375% £ Euro Medium Term Note 2027 London Stock Exchange (595) (594)
1.250% £ Euro Medium Term Note 2028 London Stock Exchange (742) –
3.875% US$ US Medium Term Note 2028 New York Stock Exchange (1,278) (1,319)
3.375% US$ US Medium Term Note 2029 New York Stock Exchange (723) (746)
1.375% € Euro Medium Term Note 2029 London Stock Exchange (447) (422)
1.750% € Euro Medium Term Note 2030 London Stock Exchange (672) (635)
5.250% £ Euro Medium Term Note 2033 London Stock Exchange (983) (983)
5.375% US$ US Medium Term Note 2034 New York Stock Exchange (363) (375)
1.625% £ Euro Medium Term Note 2035 London Stock Exchange (743) –
6.375% US$ US Medium Term Note 2038 New York Stock Exchange (1,996) (2,061)
6.375% £ Euro Medium Term Note 2039 London Stock Exchange (695) (694)
5.250% £ Euro Medium Term Note 2042 London Stock Exchange (987) (987)
4.200% US$ US Medium Term Note 2043 New York Stock Exchange (359) (371)
4.250% £ Euro Medium Term Note 2045 London Stock Exchange (789) (789)
Other long-term borrowings (2) (20)
Lease liabilities (887) (1,010)
(23,425) (23,590)
Net debt (20,780) (25,215)
GSK Annual Report 2020 189Notes to the financial statements continued
29. Net debt continued
Current assets
Liquid investments are classified as financial assets at amortised cost. At 31 December 2020, they included US Treasury Notes
and other government bonds. The effective interest rate on liquid investments at 31 December 2020 was approximately 1.1%
(2019 – approximately 1.1%). Liquid investment balances at 31 December 2020 earning interest at floating rates amount to
£78 million (2019 – £1 million). Liquid investment balances at 31 December 2020 earning interest at fixed rates amount to
£nil (2019 – £78 million).
Balances reported within cash and cash equivalents have an original maturity of three months or less. The effective interest
rate on cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2020 was approximately 0.3% (2019 – approximately 1.6%). Cash and cash
equivalents at 31 December 2020 earning interest at floating and fixed rates amounted to £6,100 million and £9 million respectively
(2019 – £5,039 million and £10 million) and non-interest bearing holdings amounted to £183 million (2019 – £164 million).
GSK’s policy regarding the credit quality of cash and cash equivalents is set out in Note 43, ‘Financial instruments and
related disclosures’.
Short-term borrowings
GSK has a $10 billion (£7.3 billion) US commercial paper programme, of which $25 million (£17 million) was in issue at
31 December 2020 (2019 – $4.8 billion (£3.6 billion)). GSK has a £5 billion Euro commercial paper programme newly established
in 2020, of which £nil was in issue at 31 December 2020. GSK has a £1.9 billion three-year committed facility and $2.5 billion
(£1.8 billion) under a 364 day committed facility. The three year committed facility was agreed in September 2019 and was
extended by one year to 2023 in September 2020. The 364-day committed facility was agreed in September 2020. These facilities
were undrawn at 31 December 2020.
The weighted average interest rate on commercial paper borrowings at 31 December 2020 was 2.4% (2019 – 1.8%).
The weighted average interest rate on current bank loans and overdrafts at 31 December 2020 was 5.8% (2019 – 4.6%).
The average effective pre-swap interest rate of notes classified as short-term at 31 December 2020 was 0.0% (2019 – 0.0%).
The 0.0% rate reflects the upcoming maturities of a LIBOR +0.35% coupon note in May 2021, and both a zero coupon and a
EURIBOR +0.60% note in September 2021.
Long-term borrowings
At the year-end, GSK had long-term borrowings of £23.4 billion (2019 – £23.6 billion), of which £12.9 billion (2019 – £13.3 billion)
fell due in more than five years. The average effective pre-swap interest rate of all notes in issue at 31 December 2020 was
approximately 3.6% (2019 – approximately 3.8%).
Long-term borrowings repayable after five years carry interest at effective rates between 1.0% and 6.8%, with repayment dates
ranging from 2026 to 2045.
Pledged assets
The Group held pledged investments in US Treasury Notes with a par value of $50 million (£37 million), (2019– $50 million
(£38 million)) as security against irrevocable letters of credit issued on the Group’s behalf in respect of the Group’s self-insurance
activity. Provisions in respect of self-insurance are included within the provisions for legal and other disputes discussed in Note 31,
‘Other provisions’.
Lease liabilities
The maturity analysis of discounted lease liabilities recognised on the Group balance sheet is as follows:
2020 2019
£m £m
Rental payments due within one year 230 240
Rental payments due between one and two years 207 227
Rental payments due between two and three years 126 119
Rental payments due between three and four years 96 105
Rental payments due between four and five years 86 93
Rental payments due after five years 372 466
Total lease liabilities 1,117 1,250
190 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
30. Pensions and other post-employment benefits
2020 2019 2018
Pension and other post-employment costs £m £m £m
UK pension schemes 255 181 246
US pension schemes 62 120 100
Other overseas pension schemes 189 185 190
Unfunded post-retirement healthcare schemes 13 74 50
519 560 586
Analysed as:
Funded defined benefit/hybrid pension schemes 341 300 369
Unfunded defined benefit pension schemes 32 41 43
Unfunded post-retirement healthcare schemes 13 74 50
Defined benefit schemes 386 415 462
Defined contribution pension schemes 133 145 124
519 560 586
The costs of the defined benefit pension and post-retirement healthcare schemes are charged in the income statement as follows:
2020 2019 2018
£m £m £m
Cost of sales 143 149 160
Selling, general and administration 185 195 228
Research and development 59 71 74
387 415 462
GSK entities operate pension arrangements which cover the Group’s material obligations to provide pensions to retired employees.
These arrangements have been developed in accordance with local practices in the countries concerned. Pension benefits can be
provided by state schemes; by defined contribution schemes, whereby retirement benefits are determined by the value of funds
arising from contributions paid in respect of each employee; or by defined benefit schemes, whereby retirement benefits are based
on employee pensionable remuneration and length of service.
Pension costs of defined benefit schemes for accounting purposes have been calculated using the projected unit credit method. In
certain countries pension benefits are provided on an unfunded basis, some administered by trustee companies. Formal,
independent, actuarial valuations of the Group’s main plans are undertaken regularly, normally at least every three years.
Remeasurement movements in the year are recognised through the statement of comprehensive income. Discount rates are
derived from AA rated corporate bond yields except in countries where there is no deep market in corporate bonds where
government bond yields are used. Discount rates are selected to reflect the term of the expected benefit payments. Projected
inflation rate and pension increases are long-term predictions based on the yield gap between long-term index-linked and fixed
interest Gilts. In the UK, mortality rates are determined by adjusting the SAPS S2 standard mortality tables to reflect recent scheme
experience. These rates are then projected to reflect improvements in life expectancy in line with the CMI 2019 projections with a
long-term rate of improvement of 1.25% per year for both males and females. In the US, mortality rates are calculated using the
PRI-2012 white collar table adjusted to reflect recent experience. These rates are projected using MP-2020 to allow for future
improvements in life expectancy.
GSK Annual Report 2020 191Notes to the financial statements continued
30. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
The average life expectancy assumed now for an individual at the age of 60 and projected to apply in 2040 for an individual then at
the age of 60 is as follows:
UK US
Male Female Male Female
Years Years Years Years
Current 27.4 29.0 26.8 28.2
Projected for 2040 28.8 30.5 28.4 29.7
The assets of funded schemes are generally held in separately administered trusts, either as specific assets or as a proportion of a
general fund, or are insurance contracts. Assets are invested in different classes in order to maintain a balance between risk and
return. Investments are diversified to limit the financial effect of the failure of any individual investment. The physical asset allocation
strategy for three of the four UK plans has been adjusted from 45% in return-seeking assets and 55% in liability-matching assets to
42.5% in return-seeking assets and 57.5% in liability-matching assets. During 2019, a buy-in insurance contract was purchased to
cover substantially all of the obligations of the other UK plan. At 31 December 2020, the value of the insurance contract was
£620 million (2019 – £607 million). The asset allocation of the US plans is currently set at 25% return-seeking assets and 75%
liability-matching assets.
The pension plans are exposed to risk that arises because the estimated market value of the plans’ assets might decline, the
investment returns might reduce, or the estimated value of the plans’ liabilities might increase.
In line with the agreed mix of return-seeking assets to generate future returns and liability-matching assets to better match future
pension obligations, the Group has defined an overall long-term investment strategy for the plans, with investments across a broad
range of assets. The main market risks within the asset and hedging portfolio are against credit risk, interest rates, long-term
inflation, equities, property, currency and bank counterparty risk.
The plan liabilities are a series of future cash flows with relatively long duration. On an IAS 19 basis, these cash flows are sensitive to
changes in the expected long-term inflation rate and the discount rate (AA corporate bond yield curve) where an increase in long-term
inflation corresponds with an increase in the liabilities, and an increase in the discount rate corresponds with a decrease in the liabilities.
The interest rate risk and credit rate risk in the US are partially hedged. The targets are based on an accounting measure of the
plan liabilities.
For the UK plans, there is an interest rate and inflation hedging strategy in place. The targets are based on an economic measure of
the plan liabilities. Furthermore, the plans also currently hedge a portion of their equity exposure with a staggered maturity profile.
In the UK, the defined benefit pension schemes operated for the benefit of former Glaxo Wellcome employees and former
SmithKline Beecham employees remain separate. These schemes were closed to new entrants in 2001 and subsequent UK
employees are entitled to join a defined contribution scheme. In addition, the Group operates a number of post-retirement
healthcare schemes, the principal one of which is in the US.
Following a period of consultation with impacted employees, it was announced on 17 December 2020 that the UK defined benefit
plans would be closed to future accrual effective from 31 March 2022. As a result, post closure the accrued benefits of active
participants will be revalued in line with inflation (RPI for the legacy Glaxo Wellcome plans and CPI for the legacy SmithKline Beecham
plans subject to the relevant caps for each arrangement) rather than capped pay increases. In addition, all defined benefit plan
participants who are still active at 1 April 2022 will receive a defined pension contribution of £10,000 each. The effect of closure and
the defined contribution enhancement together result in a one off cost of £74 million.
It was announced on 9 September 2020 that the US cash balance pension plans would be closed to future accrual from 1 January
2021. This change resulted in a credit of £56 million. On 1 June 2020 and 9 September 2020, two amendments were made to the
retiree healthcare plans in the US resulting in a credit of £55 million.
The Group has applied the following financial assumptions in assessing the defined benefit liabilities:
UK US Rest of World
2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018
% pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa
Rate of increase of future earnings 2.0 2.00 2.00 n/a 4.00 4.00 2.6 2.70 2.70
Discount rate 1.4 2.00 2.90 2.3 3.20 4.20 0.6 1.10 1.80
Expected pension increases 2.8 3.00 3.20 n/a n/a n/a 2.1 2.10 2.10
Cash balance credit/conversion rate n/a n/a n/a 1.9 2.60 3.20 0.1 0.10 0.40
Inflation rate 2.8 3.00 3.20 2.0 2.25 2.25 1.3 1.40 1.50
Sensitivity analysis detailing the effect of changes in assumptions is provided on page 199. The analysis provided reflects the
assumption changes which have the most material impact on the results of the Group.
192 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
30. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
The amounts recorded in the income statement and statement of comprehensive income for the three years ended 31 December
2020 in relation to the defined benefit pension and post-retirement healthcare schemes were as follows:
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
UK US Rest of World Group Group
2020 £m £m £m £m £m
Amounts charged to operating profit
Current service cost 61 83 147 291 36
Past service cost/(credit) 98 (56) 1 43 (55)
Net interest (income)/cost 3 23 10 36 39
Gains from settlements – – (18) (18) (7)
Expenses 9 12 – 21 –
171 62 140 373 13
Remeasurement gains/(losses) recorded in the statement of
comprehensive income 51 (96) (60) (105) (82)
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
UK US Rest of World Group Group
2019 £m £m £m £m £m
Amounts charged to operating profit
Current service cost 62 74 130 266 22
Past service cost/(credit) 49 (3) (15) 31 –
Net interest (income)/cost (19) 29 16 26 52
Gains from settlements – – (9) (9) –
Expenses 7 20 – 27 –
99 120 122 341 74
Remeasurement losses recorded in the statement of
comprehensive income (894) (1) (78) (973) (77)
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
UK US Rest of World Group Group
2018 £m £m £m £m £m
Amounts charged to operating profit
Current service cost 75 72 134 281 29
Past service cost/(credit) 93 1 – 94 (27)
Net interest (income)/cost (3) 20 19 36 49
Gains from settlements – – (14) (14) (1)
Expenses 8 7 – 15 –
173 100 139 412 50
Remeasurement gains/(losses) recorded in the statement of
comprehensive income 495 (108) 196 583 145
The amounts included within past service costs in the UK included £24 million (2019 – £58 million; 2018 – £43 million) of
augmentation costs which arose from Major restructuring programmes, together with a charge of £74 million in relation to the
impact of the closure of the defined benefit schemes to future accrual. In 2018, past service costs in the UK included a charge of
£40 million in relation to the estimated impact of Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) equalisation. GMPs are minimum pension
entitlements for members of those schemes that elected to contract out of the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme. A UK
High Court ruling in 2018 required the equalisation of benefits earned between 1990 and 1997 that included GMPs in order to
address gender inequality arising because GMPs were different for men and women.
The past service credit of £56 million in the US reflected the closure of the cash balance pension plans from 1 January 2021.
Amendments to the retiree healthcare plan in the US resulted in a credit of £55 million to past service costs in post-retirement
benefits.
GSK Annual Report 2020 193Notes to the financial statements continued
30. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
A summarised balance sheet presentation of the Group defined benefit pension schemes and other post-retirement benefits is set
out in the table below:
2020 2019 2018
£m £m £m
Recognised in Other non-current assets:
Pension schemes in surplus 183 127 760
Recognised in Assets held for sale:
Post-retirement benefits – (9) (9)
Recognised in Pensions and other post-employment benefits:
Pension schemes in deficit (2,287) (2,048) (1,755)
Post-retirement benefits (1,363) (1,409) (1,370)
(3,650) (3,457) (3,125)
In the event of a plan wind-up, GSK believes the UK pension scheme rules provide the company with the right to a refund of surplus
assets following the full settlement of plan liabilities. As a result, the net surplus in the UK defined benefit pension schemes is
recognised in full.
The fair values of the assets and liabilities of the UK and US defined benefit pension schemes, together with aggregated data for
other defined benefit pension schemes in the Group are as follows:
UK US Rest of World Group
At 31 December 2020 £m £m £m £m
Equities: – listed 2,686 539 686 3,911
– unlisted – – 5 5
Multi-asset funds 2,075 – – 2,075
Property: – listed – – 57 57
– unlisted 447 136 2 585
Corporate bonds: – listed 1,113 1,066 154 2,333
– unlisted – – 20 20
Government bonds: – listed 6,055 758 999 7,812
Insurance contracts 1,409 – 988 2,397
Other (liabilities)/assets (203) 136 78 11
Fair value of assets 13,582 2,635 2,989 19,206
Present value of scheme obligations (13,858) (3,445) (4,007) (21,310)
Net surplus/(obligation) (276) (810) (1,018) (2,104)
Included in Other non-current assets 77 – 106 183
Included in Pensions and other post-employment benefits (353) (810) (1,124) (2,287)
(276) (810) (1,018) (2,104)
Actual return on plan assets 1,092 159 177 1,428
The multi-asset funds comprise investments in pooled investment vehicles that are invested across a range of asset classes,
increasing diversification within the growth portfolio. The value of funds in this asset class with a quoted market price is
£847 million (2019 – £861 million).
The ‘Other assets’ category comprises cash and mark to market values of derivative positions.
Index-linked gilts held as part of a UK repo programme are included in government bonds. The related loan of £650 million
at 31 December 2020 (2019 – £243 million; 2018 – £nil) is deducted within ‘Other assets’.
194 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
30. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
UK US Rest of World Group
At 31 December 2019 £m £m £m £m
Equities: – listed 2,904 671 638 4,213
– unlisted – – 8 8
Multi-asset funds 2,700 – – 2,700
Property: – listed – – 55 55
– unlisted 460 145 2 607
Corporate bonds: – listed 297 855 141 1,293
– unlisted 326 – 23 349
Government bonds: – listed 4,923 803 889 6,615
Insurance contracts 1,406 – 832 2,238
Other (liabilities)/assets (35) 315 74 354
Fair value of assets 12,981 2,789 2,662 18,432
Present value of scheme obligations (13,293) (3,506) (3,554) (20,353)
Net surplus/(obligation) (312) (717) (892) (1,921)
Included in Other non-current assets 70 – 57 127
Included in Pensions and other post-employment benefits (382) (717) (949) (2,048)
(312) (717) (892) (1,921)
Actual return on plan assets 787 356 345 1,488
UK US Rest of World Group
At 31 December 2018 £m £m £m £m
Equities: – listed 3,257 1,280 518 5,055
– unlisted – – 7 7
Multi-asset funds 2,997 – – 2,997
Property: – listed – – 33 33
– unlisted 423 231 4 658
Corporate bonds: – listed 404 783 111 1,298
– unlisted 306 – 25 331
Government bonds: – listed 3,835 286 795 4,916
Insurance contracts 770 – 831 1,601
Other assets 589 228 66 883
Fair value of assets 12,581 2,808 2,390 17,779
Present value of scheme obligations (12,087) (3,474) (3,213) (18,774)
Net surplus/(obligation) 494 (666) (823) (995)
Included in Other non-current assets 711 – 49 760
Included in Pensions and other post-employment benefits (217) (666) (872) (1,755)
494 (666) (823) (995)
Actual return on plan assets (88) (123) 55 (156)
GSK Annual Report 2020 195Notes to the financial statements continued
30. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
UK US Rest of World Group Group
Movements in fair values of assets £m £m £m £m £m
Assets at 1 January 2018 13,154 2,874 2,252 18,280 –
Exchange adjustments – 171 53 224 –
Interest income 323 102 29 454 –
Expenses (8) (7) – (15) –
Settlements and curtailments – – (14) (14) –
Remeasurement (411) (225) 26 (610) –
Employer contributions 119 150 117 386 93
Scheme participants’ contributions 4 – 16 20 16
Benefits paid (600) (257) (89) (946) (109)
Assets at 31 December 2018 12,581 2,808 2,390 17,779 –
Exchange adjustments – (110) (120) (230) –
Additions through business combinations – – 14 14 –
Interest income 360 111 37 508 –
Expenses (7) (20) – (27) –
Settlements and curtailments – – 1 1 –
Remeasurement 427 245 312 984 –
Employer contributions 187 40 116 343 110
Scheme participants’ contributions 3 – 17 20 17
Benefits paid (570) (285) (105) (960) (127)
Assets at 31 December 2019 12,981 2,789 2,662 18,432 –
Exchange adjustments – (86) 138 52 –
Additions through business combinations – – – – –
Interest income 256 87 29 372 –
Expenses (9) (12) – (21) –
Settlements and curtailments – – (20) (20) –
Remeasurement 836 72 148 1,056 –
Employer contributions 156 33 124 313 105
Scheme participants’ contributions 3 – 18 21 18
Benefits paid (641) (248) (110) (999) (123)
Assets at 31 December 2020 13,582 2,635 2,989 19,206 –
During 2020, the Group made special funding contributions to the UK pension schemes of £76 million (2019 – £78 million;
2018 – £nil) but £nil (2019 – £nil; 2018 – £125 million) to the US schemes. In 2018, GSK reached a revised agreement
with the trustees of the UK pension schemes to make additional contributions to eliminate the pension deficits identified within the
schemes at the 31 December 2017 actuarial funding valuation. Based on these funding agreements, the additional contributions
to eliminate the pension deficit are expected to be £44 million in 2021 and 2022 and these are included within Note 35,
‘Commitments’ on page 202. This funding commitment supersedes the previous agreement made in 2016. The contributions
were based on a government bond yield curve approach to selecting the discount rate; the rate chosen included an allowance
for expected investment returns which reflected the asset mix of the schemes.
Employer contributions for 2021, including special funding contributions, are estimated to be approximately £320 million in respect
of defined benefit pension schemes and £100 million in respect of post-retirement benefits.
196 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
30. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
UK US Rest of World Group Group
Movements in defined benefit obligations £m £m £m £m £m
Obligations at 1 January 2018 (13,101) (3,445) (3,239) (19,785) (1,496)
Exchange adjustments – (208) (63) (271) (71)
Service cost (75) (72) (134) (281) (29)
Past service cost/(credit) (93) (1) – (94) 27
Interest cost (320) (122) (48) (490) (49)
Settlements and curtailments – – 28 28 1
Remeasurement 906 117 170 1,193 145
Scheme participants’ contributions (4) – (16) (20) (16)
Benefits paid 600 257 89 946 109
Obligations at 31 December 2018 (12,087) (3,474) (3,213) (18,774) (1,379)
Exchange adjustments – 140 177 317 50
Additions through business combinations – – (56) (56) (48)
Service cost (62) (74) (130) (266) (22)
Past service cost (49) 3 15 (31) –
Interest cost (341) (140) (53) (534) (52)
Settlements and curtailments – – 8 8 –
Remeasurement (1,321) (246) (390) (1,957) (77)
Scheme participants’ contributions (3) – (17) (20) (17)
Benefits paid 570 285 105 960 127
Obligations at 31 December 2019 (13,293) (3,506) (3,554) (20,353) (1,418)
Exchange adjustments – 118 (188) (70) 36
Disposals – – – – 9
Service cost (61) (83) (147) (291) (36)
Past service cost (98) 56 (1) (43) 55
Interest cost (259) (110) (39) (408) (39)
Settlements and curtailments – – 38 38 7
Remeasurement (785) (168) (208) (1,161) (82)
Scheme participants’ contributions (3) – (18) (21) (18)
Benefits paid 641 248 110 999 123
Obligations at 31 December 2020 (13,858) (3,445) (4,007) (21,310) (1,363)
The defined benefit pension obligation is analysed as follows:
2020 2019 2018
£m £m £m
Funded (20,504) (19,547) (18,025)
Unfunded (806) (806) (749)
(21,310) (20,353) (18,774)
The liability for the US post-retirement healthcare scheme has been assessed using the same assumptions as for the US pension
scheme, together with the assumption for future medical inflation of 6.0% (2019 – 6.25%) in 2021, grading down to 4.75% in
2026 and thereafter. At 31 December 2020, the US post-retirement healthcare scheme obligation was £1,124 million
(2019 – £1,198 million; 2018 – £1,179 million). Post-retirement benefits are unfunded.
GSK Annual Report 2020 197Notes to the financial statements continued
30. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
The movement in the net defined benefit liability is as follows:
2020 2019 2018
£m £m £m
At 1 January (1,921) (995) (1,505)
Exchange adjustments (18) 87 (47)
Additions through business combinations – (42) –
Service cost (291) (266) (281)
Past service cost (43) (31) (94)
Interest cost (36) (26) (36)
Settlements and curtailments 18 9 14
Remeasurements:
Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest 1,056 984 (610)
Gain from change in demographic assumptions 69 78 131
(Loss)/gain from change in financial assumptions (1,340) (2,022) 1,149
Experience gains/(losses) 110 (13) (87)
Employer contributions 313 343 386
Expenses (21) (27) (15)
At 31 December (2,104) (1,921) (995)
The remeasurements included within post-retirement benefits are detailed below:
2020 2019 2018
£m £m £m
Gain from change in demographic assumptions 7 – 6
(Loss)/gain from change in financial assumptions (93) (80) 100
Experience gains 4 3 39
(82) (77) 145
The defined benefit pension obligation analysed by membership category is as follows:
2020 2019 2018
£m £m £m
Active 4,660 4,572 4,427
Retired 11,257 10,485 9,542
Deferred 5,393 5,296 4,805
21,310 20,353 18,774
The post-retirement benefit obligation analysed by membership category is as follows:
2020 2019 2018
£m £m £m
Active 551 549 499
Retired 808 869 879
Deferred 4 – 1
1,363 1,418 1,379
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is as follows:
2020 2019 2018
years years years
Pension benefits 16 15 15
Post-retirement benefits 12 12 11
198 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
30. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
Sensitivity analysis
The effect of changes in assumptions used on the benefit obligations and on the 2021 annual defined benefit pension and post-
retirement costs are detailed below. This information has been determined by taking into account the duration of the liabilities and
the overall profile of the plan memberships.
0.25% 0.25%
increase decrease
£m £m
Discount rate
(Decrease)/increase in annual pension cost (20) 15
Increase/(decrease) in annual post-retirement benefits cost 1 (1)
(Decrease)/increase in pension obligation (797) 846
(Decrease)/increase in post-retirement benefits obligation (40) 42
0.5% 0.5%
increase decrease
£m £m
(Decrease)/increase in annual pension cost (39) 27
Increase/(decrease) in annual post-retirement benefits cost 2 (2)
(Decrease)/increase in pension obligation (1,550) 1,745
(Decrease)/increase in post-retirement benefits obligation (78) 86
0.25% 0.25%
increase decrease
£m £m
Inflation rate
Increase/(decrease) in annual pension cost 14 (13)
Increase/(decrease) in pension obligation 617 (572)
1 year
increase
£m
Life expectancy
Increase in annual pension cost 15
Increase in annual post-retirement benefits cost 1
Increase in pension obligation 801
Increase in post-retirement benefits obligation 40
1%
increase
£m
Rate of future healthcare inflation
Increase in annual post-retirement benefits cost 1
Increase in post-retirement benefits obligation 50
GSK Annual Report 2020 199Notes to the financial statements continued
31. Other provisions
Legal Major Employee
and other restructuring related Other
disputes programmes provisions provisions Total
£m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2020 198 505 387 201 1,291
Exchange adjustments (12) 4 4 (3) (7)
Charge for the year 234 746 64 102 1,146
Reversed unused (3) (96) (21) (7) (127)
Unwinding of discount 1 2 – – 3
Utilised (98) (287) (99) (44) (528)
Reclassifications and other movements – 18 (9) 4 13
Transfer to Pension obligations – (32) – – (32)
At 31 December 2020 320 860 326 253 1,759
To be settled within one year 279 634 63 76 1,052
To be settled after one year 41 226 263 177 707
At 31 December 2020 320 860 326 253 1,759
Legal and other disputes The Group is in potential settlement discussions in a number
The Group is involved in a substantial number of legal and other of the disputes for which amounts have been provided and,
disputes, including notification of possible claims, as set out in based on its current assessment of the progress of these
Note 46 ‘Legal proceedings’. Provisions for legal and other disputes, estimates that £279 million of the amount provided
disputes include amounts relating to product liability, anti-trust, at 31 December 2020 will be settled within one year. At
government investigations, contract terminations and self 31 December 2020, it was expected that £13 million
insurance. (2019 – £9 million) of the provision made for legal and other
disputes will be reimbursed by third parties. For a discussion
The net charge for the year of £231 million (including reversals
of legal issues, see Note 46, ‘Legal proceedings’.
and estimated insurance recoveries) primarily related to
provisions for product liability cases, commercial disputes Major restructuring programmes
and various other government investigations. During 2020, the Group had four major restructuring
programmes in progress: the Combined restructuring and
The discount on the provisions increased by £1 million in 2020
integration programme, which is now substantially complete,
(2019 – increased by £3 million). The discount was calculated
the 2018 Major restructuring programme, the Consumer
using risk-adjusted projected cash flows and risk-free rates of
Healthcare Joint Venture integration programme and the
return.
Separation Preparation programme. The programmes are
In respect of product liability claims related to certain products, focused primarily on simplifying supply chain processes,
provision is made when there is sufficient history of claims rationalising the Group’s manufacturing network, restructuring
made and settlements to enable management to make a reliable the Pharmaceuticals commercial operations, integrating the
estimate of the provision required to cover unasserted claims. Pfizer consumer healthcare business and preparing for the
The ultimate liability for such matters may vary from the amounts separation of GSK into two new companies.
provided and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation
Restructuring provisions primarily include severance costs
proceedings, investigations and possible settlement
when management has made a formal decision to eliminate
negotiations.
certain positions and this has been communicated to the
It is in the nature of the Group’s business that a number of groups of employees affected and appropriate consultation
these matters may be the subject of negotiation and litigation procedures completed, where appropriate. No provision is
over many years. Litigation proceedings, including the various made for staff severance payments that are paid immediately.
appeal procedures, often take many years to reach resolution,
Pension augmentations arising from staff redundancies of
and out-of-court settlement discussions can also often be
£32 million (2019 – £47 million) have been charged during the
protracted. Indemnified disputes will result in a provision
year and then transferred to the pensions obligations provision.
charge and a corresponding receivable.
£24 million relates to defined benefit plans and £8 million
relates to defined contribution schemes as shown in Note 30,
‘Pensions and other post-employment benefits’.
200 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
31. Other provisions continued
Employee related provisions Given the nature of these provisions, the amounts are likely to
Employee related provisions include obligations for certain be settled over many years.
medical benefits to disabled employees and their spouses in
Other provisions
the US. At 31 December 2020, the provision for these benefits
Included in other provisions are insurance provisions of
amounted to £77 million (2019 – £85 million). Other employee
£13 million (2019 – £14 million), and a number of other
benefits reflect a variety of provisions for severance costs,
provisions including vehicle insurance and regulatory matters.
jubilee awards and other long-service benefits.
32. Contingent consideration liabilities
The consideration for certain acquisitions includes amounts contingent on future events such as development milestones or sales
performance. The Group has provided for the fair value of this contingent consideration as follows:
Shionogi-
ViiV Novartis
Healthcare Vaccines Other Total
£m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2018 5,542 584 46 6,172
Remeasurement through income statement 1,188 56 7 1,251
Cash payments: operating cash flows (703) (281) – (984)
Cash payments: investing activities (90) (63) – (153)
At 31 December 2018 5,937 296 53 6,286
Remeasurement through income statement 31 67 (15) 83
Cash payments: operating cash flows (767) (13) – (780)
Cash payments: investing activities (98) (11) (4) (113)
Other movements – – 3 3
At 31 December 2019 5,103 339 37 5,479
Remeasurement through income statement 1,114 161 – 1,275
Cash payments: operating cash flows (751) (14) – (765)
Cash payments: investing activities (107) (9) (4) (120)
At 31 December 2020 5,359 477 33 5,869
Of the contingent consideration payable at 31 December 2020, £765 million (2019 – £755 million) is expected to be paid within
one year.
The consideration payable for the acquisition of the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture and the Novartis Vaccines business is
expected to be paid over a number of years. As a result, the total estimated liabilities are discounted to their present values, shown
above. The Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare contingent consideration liability is discounted at 8.5% and the Novartis Vaccines contingent
consideration liability is discounted at 8% for commercialised products and at 9% for pipeline assets.
The Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare and Novartis Vaccines contingent consideration liabilities are calculated principally based on the
forecast sales performance of specified products over the lives of those products.
The table below shows on an indicative basis the income statement and balance sheet sensitivity to reasonably possible changes
in key inputs to the valuations of the contingent consideration liabilities.
2000 2019
Shionogi- Shionogi-
ViiV Novartis ViiV Novartis
Healthcare Vaccines Healthcare Vaccines
Increase/(decrease) in financial liability and loss/(gain) in Income statement £m £m £m £m
10% increase in sales forecasts 515 80 489 65
10% decrease in sales forecasts (516) (78) (490) (65)
1% increase in discount rate (207) (39) (192) (24)
1% decrease in discount rate 223 45 205 27
5% increase in probability of milestone success 7 7
5% decrease in probability of milestone success (7) (7)
10 cent appreciation of US Dollar 305 4 302 (8)
10 cent depreciation of US Dollar (262) (2) (261) 7
10 cent appreciation of Euro 125 30 106 26
10 cent depreciation of Euro (105) (24) (91) (22)
An explanation of the accounting for ViiV Healthcare is set out on page 52.
GSK Annual Report 2020 201Notes to the financial statements continued
33. Other non-current liabilities
2020 2019
£m £m
Accruals 41 42
Deferred income 21 24
Other payables 741 778
803 844
Other payables includes a number of employee-related liabilities including employee savings plans.
34. Contingent liabilities
At 31 December 2020, contingent liabilities where GSK has a present obligation as a result of a past event, comprising guarantees,
discounted bills and other items arising in the normal course of business, amounted to £138 million (2019 – £97 million). These
contingent liabilities arise where the Group has a present obligation arising from a past event. At 31 December 2020, £0.4 million
(2019 – £1 million) of financial assets were pledged as collateral for contingent liabilities. Provision is made for the outcome of tax,
legal and other disputes where it is both probable that the Group will suffer an outflow of funds and it is possible to make a reliable
estimate of that outflow. At 31 December 2020, other than for those disputes where provision has been made, it was not possible
to make a reliable estimate of the potential outflow of funds that might be required to settle disputes where the possibility of there
being an outflow was more than remote. Descriptions of the significant legal and other disputes to which the Group is a party are
set out in Note 46, ‘Legal proceedings’.
35. Commitments
2020 2019
Contractual obligations and commitments £m £m
Contracted for but not provided in the financial statements:
Intangible assets 12,307 9,727
Property, plant and equipment 528 413
Investments 153 47
Purchase commitments 746 1,047
Pensions 88 163
Interest on loans 8,309 8,952
Future finance charges on leases 180 223
22,311 20,572
The commitments related to intangible assets include milestone payments, which are dependent on successful clinical development
or on meeting specified sales targets, and which represent the maximum that would be paid if all milestones, however unlikely, are
achieved. The amounts are not risk-adjusted or discounted. The increase in intangible commitments in 2020 is mainly attributable to
a number of new R&D collaborations, including with CureVac, Ideaya Biosciences and Surface Oncology.
In 2018, GSK reached an agreement with the trustees of the UK pension schemes to make additional contributions to eliminate the
pension deficit identified at the 31 December 2017 actuarial funding valuation. A payment of £44 million is due in both 2021 and
2022. The table above includes this commitment, but excludes the normal ongoing annual funding requirement in the UK of
approximately £130 million.
The Group also has other commitments which principally relate to revenue payments to be made under licences and other alliances.
Commitments in respect of future interest payable on loans are disclosed before taking into account the effect of interest rate
swaps.
202 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
36. Share capital and share premium account
Share
Ordinary Shares of 25p each premium
Number £m £m
Share capital issued and fully paid
At 1 January 2018 5,372,553,820 1,343 3,019
Issued under employee share schemes 6,513,804 2 72
At 31 December 2018 5,379,067,624 1,345 3,091
Issued under employee share schemes 4,034,607 1 50
Ordinary shares acquired by ESOP Trusts – – 33
At 31 December 2019 5,383,102,231 1,346 3,174
Issued under employee share schemes 2,087,386 – 29
Ordinary shares acquired by ESOP Trusts – – 78
At 31 December 2020 5,385,189,617 1,346 3,281
31 December 2020 31 December 2019
000 000
Number of shares issuable under employee share schemes 48,205 57,871
Number of unissued shares not under option 4,566,605 4,559,027
At 31 December 2020, of the issued share capital, 48,975,304 shares were held in the ESOP Trusts, 355,205,950 shares were
held as Treasury shares and 4,981,008,363 shares were in free issue. All issued shares are fully paid. The nominal, carrying and
market values of the shares held in the ESOP Trusts are disclosed in Note 44, ‘Employee share schemes’.
GSK Annual Report 2020 203Notes to the financial statements continued
37. Movements in equity
Retained earnings and other reserves amounted to £9,960 million at 31 December 2020 (2019 – £6,885 million; 2018 –
£655 million loss) of which £440 million (2019 – £394 million; 2018 – £337 million) related to associates and joint ventures.
The cumulative translation exchange in equity is as follows:
Net translation exchange included in:
Non- Total
Retained Fair value controlling translation
earnings reserve interests exchange
£m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2018 443 23 345 811
Exchange movements on overseas net assets (458) (22) (1) (481)
At 31 December 2018, as reported (15) 1 344 330
Adjustment of exchange movements on overseas net assets 396 – (396) –
At 31 December 2018, as revised 381 1 (52) 330
Exchange movements on overseas net assets (830) (2) (75) (907)
Reclassification of exchange movements on liquidation or disposal of overseas subsidiaries (75) – – (75)
At 31 December 2019 (524) (1) (127) (652)
Exchange movements on overseas net assets (51) (8) (34) (93)
Reclassification of exchange movements on liquidation or disposal of overseas subsidiaries 36 – – 36
At 31 December 2020 (539) (9) (161) (709)
The analysis of other comprehensive income by equity category is as follows:
Non-
Retained Other controlling
earnings reserves interests Total
2020 £m £m £m £m
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges (51) (8) – (59)
Reclassification of exchange movements on liquidation or disposal of overseas subsidiaries 36 – – 36
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges – (19) – (19)
Reclassification of cash flow hedges to income and expense – 54 – 54
Tax on fair value movements on cash flow hedges – (18) – (18)
Items that will not be reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets of non-controlling interests – – (34) (34)
Fair value movements on equity investments – 1,348 – 1,348
Tax on fair value movements on equity investments – (220) – (220)
Remeasurement losses on defined benefit plans (187) – – (187)
Tax on remeasurement losses in defined benefit plans 69 – – 69
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year (133) 1,137 (34) 970
Non-
Retained Other controlling
earnings reserves interests Total
2019 £m £m £m £m
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges (830) (2) – (832)
Reclassification of exchange movements on liquidation or disposal of overseas subsidiaries (75) – – (75)
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges – (20) – (20)
Reclassification of cash flow hedges to income and expense – 3 – 3
Tax on fair value movements on cash flow hedges – 16 – 16
Items that will not be reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets of non-controlling interests – – (75) (75)
Fair value movements on equity investments – 372 – 372
Tax on fair value movements on equity investments – (95) – (95)
Remeasurement gains on defined benefit plans (1,050) – – (1,050)
Tax on remeasurement gains in defined benefit plans 189 – – 189
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year (1,766) 274 (75) (1,567)
204 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
37. Movements in equity continued
Non-
Retained Other controlling
earnings reserves interests Total
2018 £m £m £m £m
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges (458) (22) – (480)
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges – 140 – 140
Reclassification of cash flow hedges to income and expense – (175) – (175)
Tax on fair value movements on cash flow hedges – (22) – (22)
Deferred tax reversed on reclassification of cash flow hedges – 20 – 20
Items that will not be reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets of non-controlling interests – – (1) (1)
Fair value movements on equity investments – 180 – 180
Tax on fair value movements on equity investments – 10 – 10
Remeasurement gains on defined benefit plans 728 – – 728
Tax on remeasurement gains in defined benefit plans (146) – – (146)
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year 124 131 (1) 254
Information on net investment hedges is provided in part (d) of Note 43 ‘Financial instruments and related disclosures’.
The analysis of other reserves is as follows:
ESOP Trust Fair value Cash flow Other
shares reserve hedge reserve reserves Total
£m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2018 (400) 41 (11) 2,129 1,759
Exchange adjustments (26) – – – (26)
Transferred to Retained earnings in the year on disposal of equity investments – (94) – – (94)
Net fair value movement in the year – 193 (36) – 157
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts 265 – – – 265
At 31 December 2018 (161) 140 (47) 2,129 2,061
Exchange adjustments 10 – – – 10
Transferred to Retained earnings in the year on disposal of equity investments – 5 – – 5
Net fair value movement in the year – 264 (1) – 263
Ordinary shares acquired by ESOP Trusts (328) – – – (328)
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts 344 – – – 344
At 31 December 2019 (135) 409 (48) 2,129 2,355
Exchange adjustments 20 – – – 20
Transferred to Retained earnings in the year on disposal of equity investments – (207) – – (207)
Net fair value movement in the year – 1,100 17 – 1,117
Ordinary shares acquired by ESOP Trusts (609) – – – (609)
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts 529 – – – 529
At 31 December 2020 (195) 1,302 (31) 2,129 3,205
Other reserves include various non-distributable merger and pre-merger reserves amounting to £1,849 million at 31 December
2020 (2019 – £1,849 million; 2018 – £1,849 million). Other reserves also include the capital redemption reserve created as a result
of the share buy-back programme amounting to £280 million at 31 December 2020 (2019 – £280 million; 2018 – £280 million).
GSK Annual Report 2020 205Notes to the financial statements continued
38. Non-controlling interests
Total non-controlling interests includes the following individually material non-controlling interests. Other non-controlling interests
are individually not material.
ViiV Healthcare
GSK holds 78.3% of the ViiV Healthcare sub-group, giving rise to a material non-controlling interest. Summarised financial
information in respect of the ViiV Healthcare sub-group is as follows:
2020 2019 2018
£m £m £m
Turnover 4,848 4,816 4,665
Profit after taxation 762 2,574 560
Other comprehensive income/(expense) 33 (29) 19
Total comprehensive income 795 2,545 579
2020 2019
£m £m
Non-current assets 2,564 2,660
Current assets 2,405 2,905
Total assets 4,969 5,565
Current liabilities (2,748) (2,742)
Non-current liabilities (8,343) (7,811)
Total liabilities (11,091) (10,553)
Net liabilities (6,122) (4,988)
2020 2019 2018
£m £m £m
Net cash inflow from operating activities 2,249 2,375 2,212
Net cash outflow from investing activities (294) (202) (237)
Net cash outflow from financing activities (2,483) (1,947) (1,982)
(Decrease)/increase in cash and bank overdrafts in the year (528) 226 (7)
The above financial information relates to the ViiV Healthcare group on a stand-alone basis, before the impact of Group-related
adjustments, primarily related to the recognition of preferential dividends. The profit after taxation of £762 million (2019 –
£2,574 million; 2018 – £560 million) is stated after charging preferential dividends payable to GSK, Shionogi and Pfizer and after a
charge of £1,112 million (2019 – £37 million; 2018 – £1,194 million) for remeasurement of contingent consideration payable. This
consideration is expected to be paid over a number of years.
The following amounts attributable to the ViiV Healthcare group are included in GSK’s Financial statements:
2020 2019 2018
£m £m £m
Share of profit for the year attributable to non-controlling interest 223 482 254
Dividends paid to non-controlling interest 419 310 332
Non-controlling interest in the Consolidated balance sheet (539) (344) (543)
206 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
38. Non-controlling interests continued
Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture
GSK holds 68% of the Consumer Healthcare sub-group, giving rise to a material non-controlling interest. Summarised financial
information in respect of the Consumer Healthcare sub-group is as follows:
2020 2019
£m £m
Turnover 9,837 4,240
Profit after taxation 1,219 150
Other comprehensive expenses (266) (721)
Total comprehensive income/(expenses) 953 (571)
2020 2019
£m £m
Non-current assets 29,134 29,899
Current assets 4,918 5,713
Total assets 34,052 35,612
Current liabilities (4,254) (4,219)
Non-current liabilities (3,890) (4,027)
Total liabilities (8,144) (8,246)
Net assets 25,908 27,366
2020 2019
£m £m
Net cash inflow from operating activities 1,419 1,014
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from investing activities 1,018 (776)
Net cash outflow from financing activities (2,437) (78)
Increase in cash and bank overdraft in the year/period – 160
The above financial information relates to the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture on a stand-alone basis for the year ended
31 December 2020 (2019: for the period from its formation on 31 July 2019 to December 2019), before the impact of
Group-related adjustments and the classification of cash pooling accounts with Group companies outside the Consumer
Healthcare Joint Venture but after Major restructuring charges.
The following amounts attributable to the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture are included in GSK’s Financial statements:
2020 2019
£m £m
Share of profit for the year/period attributable to non-controlling interest 374 69
Dividends paid to non-controlling interest 735 –
Non-controlling interest in the Consolidated balance sheet 6,538 6,911
GSK Annual Report 2020 207Notes to the financial statements continued
39. Related party transactions
At 31 December 2020, GSK owned 32 million shares or 31.6% of Innoviva Inc. which is a biopharmaceutical company listed on
NASDAQ. GSK began recognising Innoviva as an associate on 1 September 2015. The royalties due from GSK to Innoviva in the
year were £261 million (2019 – £215 million). At 31 December 2020, the balance payable by GSK to Innoviva was £65 million
(2019 – £63 million).
A loan of £3.0 million to Medicxi Ventures I LP remained due to GSK at 31 December 2020. The loan due from Index Ventures Life
VI (Jersey) LP was repaid in the year. In 2020, GSK increased the investment in Kurma Biofund II, FCPR by £0.8 million and Apollo
Therapeutics LLP by £2.0 million. Further investments were also made in Medicxi Ventures I LP of £1.2 million. As part of the joint
venture agreement with Qura Therapeutics LLC, the Group had an obligation to fund the joint venture $1 million per quarter up to
April 2020. On 26 June 2019, the agreement was extended for a second five-year period up to April 2025, with both GSK and its
joint venture partner committing additional financial support in the amount of $20 million. At December 2020, the outstanding
liability due to Qura was $17 million.
Cash distributions were received from our investments in Medicxi Ventures I LP of £14.5 million and in Index Venture VI (Jersey) LP
of £10.6 million.
The aggregate compensation of the Directors and CET is given in Note 9, ‘Employee costs’.
40. Acquisitions and disposals
Details of the acquisition and disposal of significant subsidiaries and associates, joint ventures and other businesses are given below:
2020
Business acquisitions
GSK completed one smaller business acquisition when it acquired 55% of Pfizer Biotech Corporation Taiwan, a part of Pfizer’s
consumer healthcare business, which was not previously recognised as part of the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture, on
28 September 2020 for non cash consideration of £129 million. This represented goodwill of £124 million, cash of £21 million
and other assets acquired of £18 million less non-controlling interest of £14 million and net liabilities of £20 million.
Total
£m
Net assets acquired:
Intangible assets 2
Property, plant and equipment 5
Inventory 5
Trade and other receivables 6
Cash and cash equivalents 21
Trade and other payables (20)
19
Non-controlling interest (14)
Goodwill 124
129
Non-cash consideration (settlement of a promissory note) 129
Total consideration 129
Business disposals
On 1 April 2020, GSK completed its divestment of Horlicks and other Consumer Healthcare nutrition products in India and a
number of other countries (excluding Bangladesh) to Unilever and the merger of GSK’s Indian listed Consumer Healthcare entity
with Hindustan Unilever, an Indian listed public company. GSK received a 5.7% equity stake in Hindustan Unilever and £395 million
in cash. GSK disposed of its equity stake in Hindustan Unilever during May 2020.
The divestment in Bangladesh closed on 30 June 2020. Total cash consideration received was £177 million.
The cash divested as part of the disposal of the India and Bangladesh Consumer Healthcare entities was £478 million.
208 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
40. Acquisitions and disposals continued
The profit on the disposal of the businesses in the year of £2,795 million was calculated as follows:
Horlicks
divestment Other Total
£m £m £m
Consideration:
Cash consideration receivable including currency forwards and purchase adjustments 492 157 649
Equity investment in Hindustan Unilever Limited 3,124 – 3,124
Total 3,616 157 3,773
Net assets disposed:
Goodwill 142 1 143
Intangible assets 15 103 118
Property, plant and equipment 56 12 68
Inventory – 6 6
Cash and cash equivalents 478 3 481
Other net (liabilities)/assets (155) 1 (154)
Total 536 126 662
Costs:
Transaction costs 12 28 40
Derivative 240 – 240
Reclassification of exchange from other comprehensive income 36 – 36
Total 288 28 316
Gain on disposals 2,792 3 2,795
The exposure to share price movements embedded in the agreement to merge GSK’s Indian listed Consumer Healthcare entity
with Hindustan Unilever Limited as part of the divestment of Horlicks and other nutrition products in India and a number of other
countries was recognised as a derivative between signing of the agreement in 2018 and completion of the transaction in 2020.
£240 million is recorded as a cost in the table above for the derecognition of the derivative asset. This largely reflects fair value
gains recognised in the Income Statement in prior periods.
Associates and joint ventures
During the year, GSK made investments into associates of £4 million and £4 million was paid in cash.
Cash flows Associates
and joint
Business Business ventures
acquisitions disposals investments
£m £m £m
Cash consideration received/(paid) – 786 (4)
Net deferred consideration – (19) –
Transaction costs (6) (27) –
Cash and cash equivalents acquired/(divested) 21 (481) –
Cash inflow/(outflow) 15 259 (4)
GSK Annual Report 2020 209Notes to the financial statements continued
40. Acquisitions and disposals continued
2019
Business acquisitions
Pfizer consumer healthcare business
The acquisition of Pfizer’s consumer healthcare business completed on 31 July 2019.
GSK and Pfizer have contributed their respective consumer healthcare businesses into a new Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture
in a non-cash transaction, whereby GSK has acquired Pfizer’s consumer healthcare business in return for shares in the Joint
Venture. GSK has an equity interest of 68% and majority control of the Joint Venture and Pfizer has an equity interest of 32%.
As the Group has control over the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture it is consolidated within the Group’s financial statements.
In a number of territories, legal completion of the acquisition has not occurred because of regulatory constraints. However, the
Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture obtained control of the majority of these businesses in these territories from 31 July 2019
and has consolidated the net assets of those businesses from that date, but in all cases is entitled to the benefits of the trading
of businesses in the delayed territories.
The non-controlling interest in the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture, calculated applying the proportionate goodwill method,
represents Pfizer’s share of the net assets of the Joint Venture, excluding goodwill.
Goodwill of £3.9 billion, which is not expected to be deductible for tax purposes, has been recognised. The goodwill represents
the potential for further synergies arising from combining the acquired businesses with GSK’s existing business together with the
value of the workforce acquired. Total transaction costs recognised in 2018 and 2019 for the acquisition amounted to £77 million.
Since acquisition on 31 July 2019, sales of £1.2 billion arising from the Pfizer consumer healthcare business have been included in
Group turnover. If the business had been acquired at the beginning of the year, it is estimated that Group turnover in 2019 would
have been approximately £1.5 billion higher. The business has been integrated into the Group’s existing activities and it is not
practicable to identify the impact on the Group profit in the period.
Tesaro Inc.
On 22 January 2019, GSK acquired 100% of Tesaro Inc., an oncology focused biopharmaceutical company, for cash consideration
of $5.0 billion (£3.9 billion), in order to strengthen the Group’s pharmaceutical pipeline. Transaction costs amounted to £31 million.
Goodwill of £1.2 billion, none of which is expected to be tax-deductible, has been recognised. The goodwill represents the
potential for further synergies arising from combining the acquired businesses with GSK’s existing business together with the value
of the workforce acquired. From acquisition on 22 January 2019 to 31 December 2019, sales of £0.2 billion arising from the Tesaro
business have been included in Group turnover. The business has been integrated into the Group’s existing activities and it is not
practicable to identify the impact on the Group profit in the period.
The fair value of the assets acquired in business combinations, including goodwill, are set out in the table below. Amounts related to
the Pfizer consumer healthcare business acquisition are provisional and subject to change.
Pfizer
consumer
healthcare
business Tesaro Other
£m £m £m
Net assets acquired:
Intangible assets 12,357 3,092 –
Property, plant and equipment 354 6 –
Right of use assets 39 40 –
Inventory 986 162 –
Trade and other receivables 546 115 35
Other assets including cash and cash equivalents 302 254 16
Trade and other payables (779) (282) (39)
Net deferred tax liabilities (2,591) (252) –
Other liabilities (99) (5) –
Term loan – (445) –
Non-controlling interest (3,577) – –
Goodwill 3,854 1,169 –
Total 11,392 3,854 12
Consideration settled by shares in GSK Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture 11,392 – –
Cash consideration paid – 3,854 6
Fair value of investment in joint venture converted into subsidiary – – 6
Total consideration 11,392 3,854 12
210 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
40. Acquisitions and disposals continued
The non-controlling interest of £3,577 million represents Pfizer’s share of the fair value of the Pfizer consumer healthcare business,
excluding goodwill. The total non-controlling interest initially recognised in the Consolidated statement of changes in equity of
£6,887 million also includes Pfizer’s share of the book value of GSK Consumer Healthcare.
Business disposals
GSK made a number of business disposals for net cash consideration received in the year of £104 million. The profit on the
disposal of the businesses in the year of £201 million was calculated as follows:
Total
£m £m
Cash consideration receivable net of subsidy payable 106
Net assets disposed:
Goodwill (4)
Intangible assets (1)
Property, plant and equipment (44)
Inventory (7)
Cash and cash equivalents (12)
Other net assets (4)
(72)
Transaction costs (27)
Reclassification of exchange from other comprehensive income 75
Non-controlling interest divested 16
98
Transaction signed but not yet completed - gain on embedded derivative 143
Transaction signed but not yet completed - transaction costs (40)
Total profit on disposal 201
Transaction signed but not yet completed at 31 December 2019
In December 2018, GSK agreed to divest Horlicks and other Consumer Healthcare nutrition brands to Unilever plc and to form
a merger of GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Limited with Hindustan Unilever Limited for a total consideration valued at
approximately £3.1 billion. GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Limited was a public company listed on the National Stock
Exchange (NSE) and Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE), in which GSK held a 72.5% stake. Following the merger of GlaxoSmithKline
Consumer Healthcare Limited with Hindustan Unilever Limited, a public company listed on the NSE and BSE, GSK would own
133.8 million Hindustan Unilever Limited shares.
The Group entered into forward foreign exchange contracts in relation to the transaction. Contracts with a value of £1.7 billion
were designated as a cash flow hedge of part of the foreign exposure arising on the transaction. Further contracts with a value of
£0.6 billion were designated as net investment hedges against INR and EUR assets. In addition, the exposure to share price
movements in the forward purchase of shares in Hindustan Unilever Limited were recognised as an embedded derivative. The
embedded derivative was in an asset position and had a fair value of £240 million at 31 December 2019 (2018 – £100 million).
Associates and joint ventures
During the year, GSK made investments of £27 million into associates and joint ventures of which £11 million was paid in cash.
Cash flows Associates
and joint
Business Business venture
acquisitions disposals investments
£m £m £m
Cash consideration (paid)/received (3,860) 161 (11)
Net deferred consideration received – 29 –
Transaction costs (95) (73) –
Cash and cash equivalents acquired/divested 384 (13) –
Cash (outflow)/inflow (3,571) 104 (11)
GSK Annual Report 2020 211Notes to the financial statements continued
2018
Business acquisitions
There were no business acquisitions during 2018.
Business disposals
GSK made a number of small business disposals during the year for a net cash consideration of £2 million.
Cash flows Associates Associates
and joint and joint
Business venture venture
disposals investments disposals
£m £m £m
Cash consideration 2 (10) 3
Net deferred consideration received 24 – –
Cash inflow/(outflow) 26 (10) 3
41. Adjustments reconciling profit after tax to operating cash flows
2020 2019 2018
£m £m £m
Profit after tax 6,388 5,268 4,046
Tax on profits 580 953 754
Share of after-tax profits of associates and joint ventures (33) (74) (31)
Finance expense net of finance income 848 814 717
Depreciation 1,214 1,231 954
Amortisation of intangible assets 1,137 1,103 902
Impairment and assets written off 781 825 350
Profit on sale of businesses (2,831) (201) (63)
Profit on sale of intangible assets (426) (342) (201)
Profit on sale of investments in associates – – (3)
Profit on sale of equity investments (69) (2) (4)
Gain on Novartis Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture put option hedging – – (513)
Business acquisition costs – 59 47
Changes in working capital:
Decrease in inventories 119 300 51
Increase in trade receivables (224) (32) (429)
Increase in trade payables 225 263 131
(Increase)/decrease in other receivables (159) (160) 18
Contingent consideration paid (see Note 32) (765) (780) (984)
Other non-cash increase in contingent consideration liabilities 1,275 83 1,250
Increase in other payables 818 89 2,362
Increase/(decrease) in pension and other provisions 400 (188) 102
Share-based incentive plans 381 365 360
Fair value adjustments 464 19 (7)
Other (27) (61) (62)
3,708 4,264 5,701
Cash generated from operations 10,096 9,532 9,747
212 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
42. Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt
2020 2019 2018
£m £m £m
Net debt, as previously reported (25,215) (21,621) (13,178)
Implementation of IFRS 16 – (1,303) –
Net debt at beginning of year, as adjusted (25,215) (22,924) (13,178)
Increase in cash and bank overdrafts 470 826 479
Increase/(decrease) in liquid investments 1 (1) –
Increase in long-term loans (3,298) (4,794) (10,138)
Repayment of short-term Notes 3,738 4,160 2,067
Repayment of/(increase in) other short-term loans 3,567 (3,095) (81)
Repayment of lease liabilities 227 214 28
Debt of subsidiary undertakings acquired – (524) –
Exchange adjustments (135) 1,015 (776)
Other non-cash movements (135) (92) (22)
Movement in net debt 4,435 (2,291) (8,443)
Net debt at end of year (20,780) (25,215) (21,621)
At
At 1 January Profit Reclass- 31 December
2020 Exchange Other and loss ifications Cash flow 2020
Analysis of changes in net debt £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Liquid investments 79 – – – – (1) 78
Cash and cash equivalents 4,707 (44) – – – 1,629 6,292
Cash and cash equivalents – AHFS 507 – – – – (507) –
Overdrafts (383) 5 – – – (652) (1,030)
4,831 (39) – – – 470 5,262
Debt due within one year:
Commercial paper (3,586) (50) – – – 3,619 (17)
European/US Medium Term Notes and bank facilities (2,658) 38 – – (3,468) 3,738 (2,350)
Lease liabilities (240) (4) 16 – (229) 227 (230)
Other (51) 12 (7) – – (52) (98)
(6,535) (4) 9 – (3,697) 7,532 (2,695)
Debt due after one year:
European/US Medium Term Notes and bank facilities (22,580) (104) (4) (20) 3,468 (3,298) (22,538)
Lease liabilities (1,010) 19 (125) – 229 – (887)
(23,590) (85) (129) (20) 3,697 (3,298) (23,425)
Net debt (25,215) (128) (120) (20) – 4,703 (20,780)
Analysis of changes in liabilities from financing activities
Debt due within one year (6,535) (4) 9 – (3,697) 7,532 (2,695)
Debt due after one year (23,590) (85) (129) (20) 3,697 (3,298) (23,425)
Derivative financial instruments 335 – (643) 353 – (119) (74)
Other financing items – – 357 (357) – – –
Interest payable (244) 1 – (868) – 864 (247)
Total liabilities from financing activities (30,034) (88) (406) (892) – 4,979 (26,441)
IFRS 16 At
At 1 January Implement- Debt Profit Reclass- 31 December
2019 ation Exchange acquired Other and loss ifications Cash flow 2019
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
2019 Analysis of changes in liabilities from financing activities
Debt due within one year (5,521) (229) 348 (464) (1) – (1,758) 1,090 (6,535)
Debt due after one year (20,271) (1,074) 755 (60) (104) (27) 1,758 (4,567) (23,590)
Derivative financial instruments 129 – (1) – 188 21 – (2) 335
Other financing items – – (189) – – – – 189 –
Interest payable (239) – 1 – (3) (898) – 895 (244)
Total liabilities from financing activities (25,902) (1,303) 914 (524) 80 (904) – (2,395) (30,034)
For further information on significant changes in net debt see Note 29, ‘Net debt’.
GSK Annual Report 2020 213Notes to the financial statements continued
43. Financial instruments and related disclosures
The objective of GSK’s Treasury activity is to minimise the These facilities were undrawn at 31 December 2020. GSK
post-tax net cost of financial operations and reduce its volatility considers this level of committed facilities to be adequate, given
to benefit earnings and cash flows. GSK uses a variety of current liquidity requirements.
financial instruments to finance its operations and derivative
Repayment of additional bank facilities agreed in 2018 to
financial instruments to manage market risks from these
support transactions was completed and none remain active at
operations. Derivatives principally comprise of foreign exchange
31 December 2020. In June 2018, £3.5 billion was drawn to
forward contracts and swaps which are used to swap
support the acquisition from Novartis of the remaining stake in
borrowings and liquid assets into currencies required for Group
the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture. £2.5 billion was repaid
purposes as well as interest rate swaps which are used to
in November 2019, and £1.0 billion was repaid in May 2020.
manage exposure to financial risks from changes in interest
rates. These financial instruments reduce the uncertainty of GSK has a £20.0 billion Euro Medium Term Note programme
foreign currency transactions and interest payments. and at 31 December 2020, £12.7 billion of notes were in issue
under this programme. The Group also had $16.7 billion
Derivatives are used exclusively for hedging purposes in
(£12.2 billion) of notes in issue at 31 December 2020 under a
relation to underlying business activities and not as trading or
US shelf registration. GSK’s borrowings mature at dates
speculative instruments.
between 2021 and 2045.
Capital management
The put option owned by Pfizer in ViiV Healthcare is
GSK’s financial strategy supports the Group’s strategic
exercisable. In reviewing liquidity requirements GSK considers
priorities and is regularly reviewed by the Board. GSK manages
that sufficient financing options are available should the put
the capital structure of the Group through an appropriate mix
option be exercised.
of debt and equity.
Market risk
The capital structure of the Group consists of net debt of
Interest rate risk management
£20.8 billion (see Note 29, ‘Net debt’) and total equity,
The objective of GSK’s Treasury activity is to minimise the
including items related to non-controlling interests, of
effective net interest cost and to balance the mix of debt at fixed
£20.8 billion (see ‘Consolidated statement of changes in
and floating rates over time.
equity’ on page 156). Total capital, including that provided by
non-controlling interests, is £41.6 billion. The Group’s main interest rate risk arises from borrowings and
investments with floating rates and refinancing of maturing fixed
The Group continues to manage its financial policies to a credit
rate debt where any changes in interest rates will affect future
profile that particularly targets short-term credit ratings of A-1
cash flows or the fair values of financial instruments. The policy
and P-1 while maintaining single A long-term ratings consistent
on interest rate risk management limits the net amount of
with those targets. The Group’s long-term credit rating with
floating rate debt to a specific cap, reviewed and agreed no
Standard and Poor’s is A (stable outlook) and with Moody’s
less than annually by the Board.
Investor Services (‘Moody’s’) it is A2 (negative outlook). The
Group’s short-term credit ratings are A-1 and P-1 with Standard The majority of debt is issued at fixed interest rates and
and Poor’s and Moody’s respectively. changes in the floating rates of interest do not significantly
affect the Group’s net interest charge. This includes some
Liquidity risk management
borrowings for which interest rate swaps are in place which
GSK’s policy is to borrow centrally in order to meet anticipated
removes the impact of the associated periodic repricing.
funding requirements. The strategy is to diversify liquidity
Short-term borrowings including bank facilities are exposed to
sources using a range of facilities and to maintain broad access
the risk of future changes in market interest rate as are the
to financial markets.
majority of cash and liquid investments.
At 31 December 2020, GSK had £3.7 billion of borrowings
repayable within one year and held £6.4 billion of cash and Interest rate benchmark reform
cash equivalents and liquid investments of which £5.4 billion ‘Interest rate benchmark reform – Amendments to IFRS 9,
was held centrally. GSK has access to short-term finance IAS 39 and IFRS 7’ was issued by the IASB in September
under a $10 billion (£7.3 billion) US commercial paper 2019. These amendments modify specific hedge accounting
programme; $25 million (£17 million) was in issue at requirements to allow hedge accounting to continue for
31 December 2020 (2019 – $4.8 billion (£3.6 billion)). GSK affected hedges during the period of uncertainty before the
has access to short-term finance under a £5 billion Euro hedged items or hedging instruments affected by the current
commercial paper programme newly established in 2020; interest rate benchmarks are amended as a result of the
£nil was in issue at 31 December 2020. GSK has a £1.9 billion ongoing interest rate benchmark reforms.
three-year committed facility and a $2.5 billion (£1.8 billion)
At 31 December 2020, the Group was not directly exposed
364-day committed facility. The three year committed facility
to interest rate benchmark reform as it held no interest rate
was agreed in September 2019 and was extended by one year
derivatives that referenced LIBOR and matured after the end
to 2023 in September 2020. The 364-day committed facility
of 2021 and all floating rate bonds were due to mature before
was agreed in September 2020.
the end of 2021.
214 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
43. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
The Group has closely monitored the market and the output The Group considers its maximum credit risk at 31 December
from the various industry working groups managing the 2020 to be £12,572 million (31 December 2019 –
transition to new benchmark interest rates. This includes £12,248 million) which is the total of the Group’s financial
announcements made by LIBOR regulators, including the assets with the exception of ’Other investments’ (comprising
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and the US Commodity equity investments) which bear equity risk rather than credit
Futures Trading Commission, regarding the transition away risk. See page 218 for details on the Group’s total financial
from LIBOR (including GBP LIBOR, USD LIBOR and assets. At 31 December 2020, GSK’s greatest concentration
EURIBOR) to the Sterling Overnight Index Average Rate of credit risk was £1.4 billion with Legal and General
(SONIA), the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR), Investment Management Class 4 GBP liquidity fund (AAA/Aaa)
and the Euro Short-Term Rate (€STR) respectively. The FCA (2019 – £0.9 billion with Legal and General Investment
has made it clear that, at the end of 2021, it will no longer Management Class 4 GBP liquidity fund (AAA/Aaa)).
seek to persuade, or compel, banks to submit to LIBOR.
There has been no change in the estimation techniques or
The only exception to this is USD LIBOR, where the
significant assumptions made during the current reporting
Intercontinental Exchange (ICE) Benchmark Administration
period in assessing the loss allowance for financial assets at
(IBA), the FCA-regulated and authorised administrator of
amortised cost since the adoption of IFRS 9 at the start of
LIBOR, has announced that it will consult on its intention to
the 2018 reporting period.
cease US$ LIBOR. IBA intends that, subject to confirmation
following its consultation, one week and two month US$ Treasury-related credit risk
LIBOR settings will cease at the end of 2021, and that the GSK sets global counterparty limits for each of GSK’s banking
US$ LIBOR panel will cease at the end of June 2023. and investment counterparties based on long-term credit
ratings from Moody’s and Standard and Poor’s. Usage of these
The Group is undertaking an interest rate benchmark transition
limits is actively monitored.
programme to identify potential exposures within the business
and deliver a smooth transition to appropriate alternative GSK actively manages its exposure to credit risk, reducing
benchmark rates. surplus cash balances wherever possible. This is part of GSK’s
strategy to regionalise cash management and to concentrate
Foreign exchange risk management
cash centrally as much as possible. The table below sets out
The Group’s objective is to minimise the exposure of overseas
the credit exposure to counterparties by rating for liquid
operating subsidiaries to transaction risk by matching local
investments, cash and cash equivalents and derivatives.
currency income with local currency costs where possible.
Foreign currency transaction exposures arising on external The gross asset position on each derivative contract is
and internal trade flows are selectively hedged. GSK’s internal considered for the purpose of this table, although, under ISDA
trading transactions are matched centrally and inter-company agreements, the amount at risk is the net position with each
payment terms are managed to reduce foreign currency risk. counterparty. Table (e) on page 226 sets out the Group’s
Where possible, GSK manages the cash surpluses or financial assets and liabilities on an offset basis.
borrowing requirements of subsidiary companies centrally At 31 December 2020, £47 million of cash is categorised as
using forward contracts to hedge future repayments back held with unrated or sub-investment grade rated counterparties
into the originating currency. (lower than BBB-/Baa3) of which £1 million is cash in transit.
In order to reduce foreign currency translation exposure, the The remaining exposure is concentrated in overseas banks used
Group seeks to denominate borrowings in the currencies of for local cash management or investment purposes, including:
our principal assets and cash flows. These are primarily £20 million in Nigeria held with United Bank for Africa, Zenith
denominated in US Dollars, Euros and Sterling. Borrowings Bank and Stanbic IBTC Bank; £12 million with Halk Bank in the
can be swapped into other currencies as required. UK; £1 million with BTV in Austria; £1 million with Banco Itau in
Brazil; £1 million with Banco de la Nacion in Panama; £1 million
Borrowings denominated in, or swapped into, foreign
with Hatton National Bank in Sri Lanka; £1 million with Hua Nan
currencies that match investments in overseas Group assets
Bank in Taiwan and £1 million with Banco Popular in Puerto
may be treated as a hedge against the relevant assets. Forward
Rico. Of the £368 million of bank balances and deposits held
contracts in major currencies are also used to reduce exposure
with BBB/Baa rated counterparties, £34 million was held with
to the Group’s investment in overseas assets (see ‘Net
BBB-/Baa3 rated counterparties, including balances or
investment hedges’ section of this note for further details).
deposits of £33 million with HDFC Bank in India and £1 million
Credit risk with State Bank of India. These banks are used for local
Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will default on its investment purposes.
contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group
GSK measures expected credit losses over cash and cash
and arises on cash and cash equivalents and favourable
equivalents as a function of individual counterparty credit ratings
derivative financial instruments held with banks and financial
and associated 12 month default rates. Expected credit losses
institutions as well as credit exposures to wholesale and retail
over cash and cash equivalents and third-party financial
customers, including outstanding receivables.
derivatives are deemed to be immaterial and no such loss has
been experienced during 2020.
GSK Annual Report 2020 215Notes to the financial statements continued
43. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Credit ratings are assigned by Standard and Poor’s and Moody’s respectively. Where the opinions of the two rating agencies
differ, GSK assigns the lower rating of the two to the counterparty. Where local rating agency or Fitch data is the only source
available, the ratings are converted to global ratings equivalent to those of Standard and Poor’s or Moody’s using published
conversion tables. These credit ratings form the basis of the assessment of the expected credit loss on Treasury-related balances
held at amortised cost being bank balances and deposits and Government securities.
BB+/Ba1
and below
AAA/Aaa AA/Aa A/A BBB/Baa /unrated Total
2020 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Bank balances and deposits – 10 2,575 368 47 3,000
US Treasury and Treasury repo only money market funds 317 – – – – 317
Liquidity funds 2,975 – – – – 2,975
Government securities – 77 – 1 – 78
3rd party financial derivatives – – 134 12 – 146
Total 3,292 87 2,709 381 47 6,516
BB+/Ba1
and below
AAA/Aaa AA/Aa A/A BBB/Baa /unrated Total
2019 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Bank balances and deposits – 538 1,906 605 23 3,072
US Treasury and Treasury repo only money market funds 102 – – – – 102
Liquidity funds 2,040 – – – – 2,040
Government securities – 78 – 1 – 79
3rd party financial derivatives – 35 225 10 – 270
Total 2,142 651 2,131 616 23 5,563
GSK’s centrally managed cash reserves amounted to All new customers are subject to a credit vetting process and
£5.4 billion at 31 December 2020, all available within three existing customers will be subject to a review at least annually.
months. This includes £1.4 billion of cash managed by the The vetting process and subsequent reviews involve obtaining
Group for ViiV Healthcare, a 78.3% owned subsidiary and information including the customer’s status as a government or
£0.8 billion of cash managed by the Group for GSK Consumer private sector entity, audited financial statements, credit bureau
Healthcare, a 68% owned subsidiary. The Group has invested reports, debt rating agency (e.g. Moody’s, Standard & Poor’s)
centrally managed liquid assets in bank deposits, Aaa/AAA reports, payment performance history (from trade references,
rated US Treasury and Treasury repo only money market funds industry credit groups) and bank references.
and Aaa/AAA rated liquidity funds.
Trade receivables consist of amounts due from a large number
Wholesale and retail credit risk of customers, spread across diverse industries and
Outside the US, no customer accounts for more than 5% of geographical areas. Ongoing credit evaluation is performed
the Group’s trade receivables balance. on the financial condition of accounts receivable and, where
appropriate, credit insurance is purchased or factoring
In the US, in line with other pharmaceutical companies, the
arrangements put in place.
Group sells its products through a small number of wholesalers
in addition to hospitals, pharmacies, physicians and other The amount of information obtained is proportional to the level
groups. Sales to the three largest wholesalers amounted to of exposure being considered. The information is evaluated
approximately 79% (2019 – 78%) of the sales of the US quantitatively (i.e. credit score) and qualitatively (i.e. judgement)
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines businesses in 2020. At in conjunction with the customer’s credit requirements to
31 December 2020, the Group had trade receivables due determine a credit limit.
from these three wholesalers totalling £2,362 million (2019
Trade receivables are grouped into customer segments that
– £2,079 million). The Group is exposed to a concentration of
have similar loss patterns to assess credit risk while other
credit risk in respect of these wholesalers such that, if one or
receivables and other financial assets are assessed individually.
more of them encounters financial difficulty, it could materially
Historical and forward-looking information is considered to
and adversely affect the Group’s financial results.
determine the appropriate expected credit loss allowance.
The Group’s credit risk monitoring activities relating to these The Group believes there is no further credit risk provision
wholesalers include a review of their quarterly financial required in excess of the allowance for expected credit losses
information and Standard & Poor’s credit ratings, development (see Note 25, ‘Trade and other receivables’).
of GSK internal risk ratings, and establishment and periodic
review of credit limits.
216 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
43. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Credit enhancements The following methods and assumptions are used to estimate
The Group uses credit enhancements including factoring the fair values of significant financial instruments which are not
and credit insurance to minimise the credit risk of the trade measured at fair value on the balance sheet:
receivables in the Group. At 31 December 2020, £386 million
– Company-owned life insurance policies – based on cash
(2019 – £250 million) of trade receivables were insured in
surrender value
order to protect the receivables from loss due to credit risks
such as default, insolvency and bankruptcy. – Receivables and payables, including put options, carried at
amortised cost – approximates to the carrying amount
Each Group entity assesses the credit risk of its private
customers to determine if credit insurance is required. – Liquid investments – approximates to the carrying amount
Factoring arrangements are managed locally by entities and – Cash and cash equivalents carried at amortised cost –
are used to mitigate risk arising from large credit risk approximates to the carrying amount
concentrations. All factoring arrangements are non-recourse. – Long-term loans – based on quoted market prices (a level 1
Fair value of financial assets and liabilities excluding lease fair value measurement) in the case of European and US
liabilities Medium Term Notes; approximates to the carrying amount in
The table on page • presents the carrying amounts and the the case of other fixed rate borrowings and floating rate bank
fair values of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities loans
excluding lease liabilities at 31 December 2020 and – Short-term loans, overdrafts and commercial paper –
31 December 2019. approximates to the carrying amount because of the short
The fair values of the financial assets and liabilities are included maturity of these instruments.
at the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to
transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market
participants at the measurement date.
The following methods and assumptions are used to measure
the fair values of significant financial instruments carried at fair
value on the balance sheet:
– Other investments – equity investments traded in an active
market determined by reference to the relevant stock
exchange quoted bid price; other equity investments
determined by reference to the current market value of similar
instruments, recent financing rounds or the discounted cash
flows of the underlying net assets
– Trade receivables carried at fair value – based on invoiced
amount
– Interest rate swaps, foreign exchange forward contracts,
swaps and options – based on the present value of
contractual cash flows or option valuation models using
market sourced data (exchange rates or interest rates) at the
balance sheet date
– Cash and cash equivalents carried at fair value – based on
net asset value of the funds
– Contingent consideration for business acquisitions and
divestments – based on present values of expected future
cash flows.
GSK Annual Report 2020 217Notes to the financial statements continued
43. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
2020 2019
Carrying Fair Carrying Fair
value value value value
Notes £m £m £m £m
Financial assets measured at amortised cost:
Other non-current assets b 37 37 76 76
Trade and other receivables b 3,990 3,990 4,533 4,533
Liquid investments 78 78 79 79
Cash and cash equivalents 3,000 3,000 3,072 3,072
Other items in Assets held for sale b – – 69 69
Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive
income (FVTOCI):
Other investments designated at FVTOCI a 2,939 2,939 1,781 1,781
Trade and other receivables a,b 1,942 1,942 1,665 1,665
Financial assets mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL):
Other investments a 121 121 56 56
Other non-current assets a,b 30 30 44 44
Trade and other receivables a,b 46 46 44 44
Held for trading derivatives that are not in a designated and
effective hedging relationship a,d,e 68 68 357 357
Cash and cash equivalents a 3,292 3,292 2,142 2,142
Derivatives designated and effective as hedging instruments (fair value movements
through Other comprehensive income) a,d,e 89 89 167 167
Total financial assets 15,632 15,632 14,085 14,085
Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost:
Borrowings excluding obligations under lease liabilities:
– bonds in a designated hedging relationship d (7,681) (8,171) (8,636) (9,085)
– other bonds (17,205) (21,966) (15,582) (19,048)
– bank loans and overdrafts (1,110) (1,110) (416) (416)
– commercial paper (17) (17) (3,586) (3,586)
– other borrowings (20) (20) (1,038) (1,038)
Total borrowings excluding lease liabilities f (26,033) (31,284) (29,258) (33,173)
Trade and other payables c (14,977) (14,977) (14,177) (14,177)
Other provisions c (232) (232) (94) (94)
Other non-current liabilities c (72) (72) (84) (84)
Other items in Assets held for sale c – – (126) (126)
Financial liabilities mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL):
Contingent consideration liabilities a,c (5,869) (5,869) (5,479) (5,479)
Held for trading derivatives that are not in a designated and
effective hedging relationship a,d,e (200) (200) (141) (141)
Derivatives designated and effective as hedging instruments (fair value movements
through Other comprehensive income) a,d,e (31) (31) (48) (48)
Total financial liabilities excluding lease liabilities (47,414) (52,665) (49,407) (53,322)
Net financial assets and financial liabilities excluding lease liabilities (31,782) (37,033) (35,322) (39,237)
The valuation methodology used to measure fair value in the above table is described and categorised on page 217.
Trade and other receivables, Other non-current assets, Trade and other payables, Other provisions, Other non-current liabilities,
Contingent consideration liabilities and Other items in Assets held for sale are reconciled to the relevant Notes on pages 220
and 221.
At 31 December 2019, Cash and cash equivalents in the table above included £507 million reported in Assets held for sale
(see Note 27, ‘Assets held for sale’).
218 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
43. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Fair value of investments in GSK shares
At 31 December 2020, the Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) Trusts held GSK shares with a carrying value of £195 million
(2019 – £135 million) and a market value of £657 million (2019 – £647 million) based on quoted market price. The shares are held
by the ESOP Trusts to satisfy future exercises of options and awards under employee incentive schemes. In 2020, the carrying
value, which is the lower of cost or expected proceeds, of these shares has been recognised as a deduction from other reserves.
At 31 December 2020, GSK held Treasury shares at a cost of £4,969 million (2019 – £5,505 million) which has been deducted
from retained earnings.
(a) Financial instruments held at fair value
The following tables categorise the Group’s financial assets and liabilities held at fair value by the valuation methodology applied in
determining their fair value. Where possible, quoted prices in active markets are used (Level 1). Where such prices are not available,
the asset or liability is classified as Level 2, provided all significant inputs to the valuation model used are based on observable
market data. If one or more of the significant inputs to the valuation model is not based on observable market data, the instrument is
classified as Level 3. Other investments classified as Level 3 in the tables below comprise equity investments in unlisted entities
with which the Group has entered into research collaborations and also investments in emerging life science companies.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
At 31 December 2020 £m £m £m £m
Financial assets at fair value
Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVTOCI):
Other investments designated at FVTOCI 2,281 – 658 2,939
Trade and other receivables – 1,942 – 1,942
Financial assets mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL):
Other investments – – 121 121
Other non-current assets – – 30 30
Trade and other receivables – 46 – 46
Held for trading derivatives that are not in a designated and effective hedging relationship – 63 5 68
Cash and cash equivalents 3,292 – – 3,292
Derivatives designated and effective as hedging instruments (fair value movements through OCI) – 89 – 89
5,573 2,140 814 8,527
Financial liabilities at fair value
Financial liabilities mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL):
Contingent consideration liabilities – – (5,869) (5,869)
Held for trading derivatives that are not in a designated and effective hedging relationship – (191) (9) (200)
Derivatives designated and effective as hedging instruments (fair value movements through OCI) – (31) – (31)
– (222) (5,878) (6,100)
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
At 31 December 2019 £m £m £m £m
Financial assets at fair value
Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVTOCI):
Other investments designated at FVTOCI 1,128 – 653 1,781
Trade and other receivables – 1,665 – 1,665
Financial assets mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL):
Other investments – – 56 56
Other non-current assets – – 44 44
Trade and other receivables – 44 – 44
Held for trading derivatives that are not in a designated and effective hedging relationship – 353 4 357
Cash and cash equivalents 2,142 – – 2,142
Derivatives designated and effective as hedging instruments (fair value movements through OCI) – 167 – 167
3,270 2,229 757 6,256
Financial liabilities at fair value
Financial liabilities mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL):
Contingent consideration liabilities – – (5,479) (5,479)
Held for trading derivatives that are not in a designated and effective hedging relationship – (141) – (141)
Derivatives designated and effective as hedging instruments (fair value movements through OCI) – (48) – (48)
– (189) (5,479) (5,668)
GSK Annual Report 2020 219Notes to the financial statements continued
43. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Movements in the year for financial instruments measured using Level 3 valuation methods are presented below:
2020 2019
£m £m
At 1 January (4,722) (5,532)
Net losses recognised in the income statement (1,269) (103)
Net gains recognised in other comprehensive income 160 31
Settlement of contingent consideration liabilities 885 893
Settlement of contingent consideration receivables – (42)
Additions 126 241
Disposals and settlements (172) (33)
Transfers from Level 3 (72) (174)
Other movements – (3)
At 31 December (5,064) (4,722)
Net losses of £1,269 million (2019 – £103 million) attributable to Level 3 financial instruments which were recognised in the
income statement included net losses of £1,269 million (2019 – £97 million) in respect of financial instruments which were held
at the end of the year. Losses of £1,269 million (2019 – £105 million) were reported in Other operating income and gains of
£nil (2019 – £2 million) were reported in Finance income. Charges of £1,114 million (2019 – £31 million) arose from
remeasurement of the contingent consideration payable for the acquisition of the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture
and £161 million (2019 – £67 million) arose from remeasurement of the contingent consideration payable for the acquisition of the
Novartis Vaccines business. Net gains of £160 million (2019 – £31 million) attributable to Level 3 financial instruments reported in
Other comprehensive income as Fair value movements on equity investments included net gains of £144 million (2019 – net gains
of £38 million) in respect of financial instruments held at the end of the year, of which net gains of £39 million (2019 – net gains of
£174 million) arose prior to transfer from Level 3 on equity investments which transferred to a Level 1 valuation methodology as
a result of listing on a recognised stock exchange during the year. Net gains and losses include the impact of exchange movements.
Financial liabilities measured using Level 3 valuation methods at 31 December included £5,359 million (2019 – £5,103 million) in
respect of contingent consideration payable for the acquisition in 2012 of the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture. This
consideration is expected to be paid over a number of years and will vary in line with the future performance of specified products
and movements in certain foreign currencies. They also included £477 million (2019 – £339 million) in respect of contingent
consideration for the acquisition in 2015 of the Novartis Vaccines business. This consideration is expected to be paid over a
number of years and will vary in line with the future performance of specified products, the achievement of certain milestone
targets and movements in certain foreign currencies. Sensitivity analysis on these balances is provided in Note 32, ‘Contingent
consideration liabilities’.
(b) Trade and other receivables, Other non-current assets and other items in Assets held for sale in scope of IFRS 9
The following table reconciles financial instruments within Trade and other receivables, Other non-current assets and other items
in Assets held for sale which fall within the scope of IFRS 9 to the relevant balance sheet amounts. The financial assets are
predominantly non-interest earning. Non-financial instruments include tax receivables, pension surplus balances and prepayments,
which are outside the scope of IFRS 9.
2020 2019
Non- Non-
At At Amortised Financial financial At At Amortised Financial financial
FVTPL FVTOCI cost instruments instruments Total FVTPL FVTOCI cost instruments instruments Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Trade and other receivables
(Note 25) 46 1,942 3,990 5,978 974 6,952 44 1,665 4,533 6,242 960 7,202
Other non-current assets
(Note 23) 30 – 37 67 974 1,041 44 – 76 120 900 1,020
Other items in Assets held
for sale (Note 27) – – – – – – – – 69 69 22 91
76 1,942 4,027 6,045 1,948 7,993 88 1,665 4,678 6,431 1,882 8,313
Trade and other receivables include trade receivables of £5,549 million (2019 – £5,487 million). The Group has portfolios in each
of the three business models under IFRS 9 due to factoring arrangements in place: £46 million (2019 – £44 million) is held to sell
the contractual cash flows and is measured at FVTPL, £1,942 million (2019 – £1,665 million) is held to either collect or sell the
contractual cash flows and is measured at FVTOCI and £3,561 million (2019 – £3,778 million) is held to collect the contractual
cash flows and is measured at amortised cost. At 31 December 2019, Other items in Assets held for sale included £44 million of
trade receivables measured at amortised cost.
220 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
43. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
(c) Trade and other payables, Other provisions, Other non-current liabilities, Contingent consideration liabilities and other
items in Assets held for sale in scope of IFRS 9
The following table reconciles financial instruments within Trade and other payables, Other provisions, Other non-current liabilities,
Contingent consideration liabilities and other items in Assets held for sale which fall within the scope of IFRS 9 to the relevant
balance sheet amounts. The financial liabilities are predominantly non-interest bearing. Accrued wages and salaries are included
within financial liabilities. Non-financial instruments include payments on account, tax and social security payables and provisions
which do not arise from contractual obligations to deliver cash or another financial asset, which are outside the scope of IFRS 9.
2020 2019
Non- Non-
Amortised Financial financial Amortised Financial financial
At FVTPL cost instruments instruments Total At FVTPL cost instruments instruments Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Trade and other payables
(Note 28) – (14,977) (14,977) (863) (15,840) – (14,177) (14,177) (762) (14,939)
Other provisions
(Note 31) – (232) (232) (1,527) (1,759) – (94) (94) (1,197) (1,291)
Other non-current liabilities
(Note 33) – (72) (72) (731) (803) – (84) (84) (760) (844)
Contingent consideration
liabilities (Note 32) (5,869) – (5,869) – (5,869) (5,479) – (5,479) – (5,479)
Other items in Assets held
for sale (Note 27) – – – – – – (126) (126) (87) (213)
(5,869) (15,281) (21,150) (3,121) (24,271) (5,479) (14,481) (19,960) (2,806) (22,766)
(d) Derivative financial instruments and hedging programmes
Derivatives are only used for economic hedging purposes and not as speculative investments and are classified as ‘held for trading’,
other than designated and effective hedging instruments, and are presented as current assets or liabilities if they are expected to be
settled within 12 months after the end of the reporting period, otherwise they are classified as non-current. The Group has the
following derivative financial instruments:
2020 2019
Fair value Fair value
Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities
£m £m £m £m
Non-current
Cash flow hedges – Interest rate swap contracts
(principal amount – £nil (2019 – £850 million)) – – 1 –
Net investment hedges – Cross currency swaps
(principal amount – £nil (2019 – £1,514 million)) – – 98 –
Current
Cash flow hedges – Interest rate swap contracts
(principal amount – £899 million (2019 – £637 million)) – (1) – (1)
Net investment hedges – Cross currency swaps
(principal amount – £549 million (2019 – £nil)) – (18) – –
Cash flow hedges – Foreign exchange contracts
(principal amount – £24 million (2019 – £1,746 million)) – – 24 (17)
Net investment hedges – Foreign exchange contracts
(principal amount – £11,193 million (2019 – £9,376 million)) 89 (12) 44 (30)
Derivatives designated and effective as hedging instruments 89 (31) 167 (48)
Non-current
Embedded and other derivatives 5 (10) 4 (1)
Current
Foreign exchange contracts
(principal amount – £13,563 million (2019 – £18,856 million)) 57 (190) 103 (140)
Embedded and other derivatives 6 – 250 –
Derivatives classified as held for trading 68 (200) 357 (141)
Total derivative instruments 157 (231) 524 (189)
Fair value hedges
At 31 December 2020 and 31 December 2019, the Group had no designated fair value hedges.
GSK Annual Report 2020 221Notes to the financial statements continued
43. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Net investment hedges
At 31 December 2020, certain foreign exchange contracts were designated as net investment hedges in respect of the foreign
currency translation risk arising on consolidation of the Group’s net investment in its European (Euro), Singaporean (SGD) and
Japanese (JPY) foreign operations as shown in the table above.
The carrying value of bonds on page 218 included £7,681 million (2019 – £8,636 million) that were designated as hedging
instruments in net investment hedges.
Cash flow hedges
During 2018, 2019 and 2020, the Group entered into forward foreign exchange contracts which have been designated as cash
flow hedges. These were entered into to hedge the foreign exchange exposure arising on cash flows from Euro denominated
coupon payments relating to notes issued under the Group’s European Medium Term Note programme, on the buyout of Novartis’
non-controlling interest in the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture in 2018, on the divestment of Horlicks and other nutrition brands
which took place in 2020 and on refinancing existing debt maturities.
The Group manages its cash flow interest rate risk by using floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps. In addition, the Group carries a
balance in reserves that arose from pre-hedging fluctuations in long-term interest rates when pricing bonds issued in prior years
and in the current year. The balance is reclassified to finance costs over the life of these bonds.
Foreign exchange risk
In the current year, the Group has designated certain foreign exchange forward contracts and swaps as cash flow and net
investment hedges. Foreign exchange derivative financial assets and liabilities are presented in the line ‘Derivative financial
instruments’ (either as assets or liabilities) on the Consolidated balance sheet. The following tables detail the foreign exchange
forward contracts and swaps outstanding at the end of the reporting period, as well as information on the related hedged items.
The notional value of foreign exchange forward contracts and swaps is the absolute total of outstanding positions at the balance
sheet date.
Hedge effectiveness is determined at the inception of the hedge relationship, and through periodic prospective effectiveness
assessments to ensure that an economic relationship exists between the hedged item and hedging instrument. The Group enters
into hedge relationships where the critical terms of the hedging instrument match exactly with the terms of the hedged item, and so
a qualitative assessment of effectiveness is performed. If changes in circumstances affect the terms of the hedged item such that
the critical terms no longer match exactly with the critical terms of the hedging instrument, the Group uses the hypothetical
derivative method to assess effectiveness.
The main source of hedge ineffectiveness in these hedging relationships is the effect of the counterparty and the Group’s own
credit risk on the fair value of the foreign exchange forward contracts and swaps, which is not reflected in the fair value of the
hedged item attributable to changes in foreign exchange rates and ineffectiveness on rolling the cash flow hedges of the
divestments mentioned above. No other sources of ineffectiveness emerged from these hedging relationships. Ineffectiveness
to be recorded from cash flow hedges amounted to a gain of £7 million in 2020 (2019 – loss of £7 million). No ineffectiveness
was recorded from net investment hedges (2019 – £nil).
Included in the table below under ‘Borrowings’ are bonds with notional value of US$750 million that have been swapped to fixed
interest rate EUR debt with a cross currency interest rate swap.
2020
Notional Carrying
Average Foreign value value
Hedging instruments exchange rate currency £m £m
Cash flow hedges
Foreign exchange contracts
Buy foreign currency:
3 to 6 months 1.12 EUR 24 0.1
24 0.1
222 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
43. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
2020
Notional Carrying
Average Foreign value value
Hedging instruments exchange rate currency £m £m
Net investment hedges
Foreign exchange contracts
Sell foreign currency:
Less than 3 months 1.10 EUR 9,663 60
Less than 3 months 1.79 SGD 1,387 13
Less than 3 months 139.41 JPY 143 4
Borrowings (including cross currency interest rate swaps):
3 to 6 months EUR 549 (550)
Over 6 months EUR 7,117 (7,131)
18,859 (7,604)
2020
Cumulative balance in cash
Periodic change in value flow hedge reserve/foreign
for calculating hedge currency translation reserve
ineffectiveness for continuing hedges
Hedged items £m £m
Cash flow hedges
Variability in cash flows from a highly probable forecast transaction – –
Variability in cash flows from foreign exchange exposure arising on
Euro denominated coupon payments relating to debt issued – –
Net investment hedges
Net investment in foreign operations 903 (1,983)
There are no balances in the cash flow hedge reserve arising from hedging relationships for which hedge accounting is no longer
applied.
2019
Average Foreign Notional Carrying
exchange rate currency value value
Hedging instruments £m £m
Cash flow hedges
Foreign exchange contracts
Buy foreign currency:
3 to 6 months 1.14 EUR 47 (1)
Over 6 months 1.15 EUR 23 –
Sell foreign currency:
Less than 3 months 93.85 INR/GBP 999 5
Less than 3 months 52.82 INR/SGD 677 3
1,746 7
Net investment hedges
Foreign exchange contracts
Sell foreign currency:
Less than 3 months 1.18 EUR 8,250 2
Less than 3 months 1.77 SGD 471 3
Less than 3 months 92.23 INR 239 6
Less than 3 months 142.26 JPY 416 3
Borrowings (including cross currency interest rate swaps):
3 to 6 months EUR 638 (638)
Over 6 months EUR 7,914 (7,998)
17,928 (8,622)
GSK Annual Report 2020 223Notes to the financial statements continued
43. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
2019
Cumulative balance in cash
Periodic change in value flow hedge reserve/foreign
for calculating hedge currency translation reserve
ineffectiveness for continuing hedges
Hedged items £m £m
Cash flow hedges
Variability in cash flows from a highly probable forecast transaction (7) (42)
Variability in cash flows from foreign exchange exposure arising on
Euro denominated coupon payments relating to debt issued (1) 1
Net investment hedges
Net investment in European foreign operations (987) (1,080)
There are no balances in the cash flow hedge reserve arising from hedging relationships for which hedge accounting is no longer
applied.
The following table details the effectiveness of the hedging relationships and the amounts reclassified from the hedging reserve to
profit or loss:
2020
Amount reclassified to profit or loss
Amount Line item Hedged
of hedge in profit or future cash Line item
Hedging ineffectiveness loss in flows in which
gains/(losses) gains/(losses) which hedge no longer As hedged reclassification
recognised in recognised in ineffectiveness expected to item affects adjustment
reserves profit or loss is included occur profit or loss is included
£m £m £m £m
Cash flow hedges
Variability in cash flows from a highly probable forecast transaction (15) 7 Other – 51 Other
operating operating
income/ income/
(expense) (expense)
Variability in cash flows from foreign exchange exposure arising on – – Finance – – Finance
Euro denominated coupon payments relating to debt issued income/ income/
(expense) (expense)
Net investment hedges
Net investment in foreign operations (903) – Finance – – Finance
income/ income/
(expense) (expense)
The following table details the effectiveness of the hedging relationships and the amounts reclassified from the hedging reserve to
profit or loss:
2019
Amount reclassified to profit or loss
Amount Line item Hedged
of hedge in profit or future cash Line item
Hedging ineffectiveness loss in flows in which
gains/(losses) gains/(losses) which hedge no longer As hedged reclassification
recognised in recognised in ineffectiveness expected to item affects adjustment
reserves profit or loss is included occur profit or loss is included
£m £m £m £m
Cash flow hedges
Variability in cash flows from a highly probable forecast transaction – (7) Other – – Other
operating operating
income/ income/
(expense) (expense)
Variability in cash flows from foreign exchange exposure arising on 1 – Finance – – Finance
Euro denominated coupon payments relating to debt issued income/ income/
(expense) (expense)
Net investment hedges
Net investment in foreign operations 987 – Finance – – Finance
income/ income/
(expense) (expense)
224 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
43. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Interest rate risk
The Group manages its cash flow interest rate risk by using floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps, where at quarterly intervals the
difference between fixed contract rates and floating rate interest amounts calculated by reference to the agreed notional principal
amounts are exchanged.
The interest rate swap contracts, exchanging floating rate interest for fixed interest, have been designated as cash flow hedges to
hedge the variability of the interest cash flows associated with floating rate debt relating to notes issued under the Group’s
European Medium Term Note programme. The interest rate swaps and the interest payments on the loan occur simultaneously and
the amount accumulated in equity is reclassified to profit or loss over the period that the floating rate interest payments affect profit
or loss.
The critical terms of the interest rate swap contracts and their corresponding hedged items are the same. A qualitative assessment
of effectiveness is performed and it is expected that the value of the interest rate swap contracts and the value of the corresponding
hedged items will systematically change in opposite directions in response to movements in the underlying interest rates. The main
sources of ineffectiveness in these hedge relationships are the effects of the Group’s own credit risk on the fair value of the interest
rate swap contracts, which are not reflected in the fair value of the hedged item attributable to the change in interest rates. No other
sources of ineffectiveness emerged from these hedging relationships.
The following tables provide information regarding interest rate swap contracts outstanding and the related hedged items at
31 December 2020 and 31 December 2019. Interest rate swap contract assets and liabilities are presented in the line ‘Derivative
financial instruments’ (either as assets or liabilities) on the Consolidated balance sheet.
2020
Change in
fair value for
Average Notional recognising Fair value
contracted fixed principal hedge assets/
rate value ineffectiveness (liabilities)
Hedging instruments % £m £m £m
Less than 1 year 0.17 1,449 3 (19)
1 to 2 years – – – –
2020
Change in value Balance in cash
used for flow hedge
calculating reserve for
hedge continuing
ineffectiveness hedges
Hedged items £m £m
Variable rate borrowings (3) 1
2019
Change in
fair value for
Average Notional recognising Fair value
contracted fixed principal hedge assets/
rate value ineffectiveness (liabilities)
Hedging instruments % £m £m £m
Less than 1 year 0.11 637 – (1)
1 to 2 years 0.13 1,418 (6) 33
2019
Change in value Balance in cash
used for flow hedge
calculating reserve for
hedge continuing
ineffectiveness hedges
Hedged items £m £m
Variable rate borrowings 6 4
GSK Annual Report 2020 225Notes to the financial statements continued
43. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
The following table details the effectiveness of the hedging relationships and the amounts reclassified from the hedging reserve to
profit or loss:
2020
Amount reclassified to profit or loss
Line item Hedged
Amount in profit or future cash Line item
Hedging of hedge loss in flows in which
gains/(losses) ineffectiveness which hedge no longer As hedged reclassification
recognised in recognised in ineffectiveness expected to item affects adjustment is
reserves profit or loss is included occur profit or loss included
£m £m £m £m
Cash flow hedges
Variability in cash flows 3 – Finance – – Finance
income/ income/
(expense) (expense)
Pre-hedging of long-term interest rates (7) – Finance – 3 Finance
income/ income/
(expense) (expense)
2019
Amount reclassified to profit or loss
Line item Hedged
Amount in profit or future cash Line item
Hedging of hedge loss in flows in which
gains/(losses) ineffectiveness which hedge no longer As hedged reclassification
recognised in recognised in ineffectiveness expected to item affects adjustment is
reserves profit or loss is included occur profit or loss included
£m £m £m £m
Cash flow hedges
Variability in cash flows (7) – Finance – (2) Finance
income/ income/
(expense) (expense)
Pre-hedging of long-term interest rates (12) – Finance – 3 Finance
income/ income/
(expense) (expense)
(e) Offsetting of financial assets and liabilities
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the balance sheet where there is a legally enforceable right
to offset the recognised amounts, and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and settle the liability
simultaneously. There are also arrangements that do not meet the criteria for offsetting but still allow for the related amounts to be
offset in certain circumstances, such as bankruptcy or the termination of a contract.
The following tables set out the financial assets and liabilities that are offset, or subject to enforceable master netting arrangements
and other similar agreements but not offset, as at 31 December 2020 and 31 December 2019. The column ‘Net amount’ shows the
impact on the Group’s balance sheet if all offset rights were exercised.
Gross Financial
financial (liabilities)/ Net financial Related
assets/ assets assets/ amounts not Net
(liabilities) offset (liabilities) offset amount
At 31 December 2020 £m £m £m £m £m
Financial assets
Trade and other receivables 5,997 (19) 5,978 (28) 5,950
Derivative financial instruments 157 – 157 (142) 15
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables (14,996) 19 (14,977) 28 (14,949)
Derivative financial instruments (231) – (231) 142 (89)
226 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
43. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Gross Financial
financial (liabilities)/ Net financial Related
assets/ assets assets/ amounts not Net
(liabilities) offset (liabilities) offset balance
At 31 December 2019 £m £m £m £m £m
Financial assets
Trade and other receivables 6,246 (4) 6,242 (62) 6,180
Derivative financial instruments 524 – 524 (131) 393
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables (14,181) 4 (14,177) 62 (14,115)
Derivative financial instruments (189) – (189) 131 (58)
Amounts which do not meet the criteria for offsetting on the balance sheet but could be settled net in certain circumstances
principally relate to derivative transactions under ISDA (International Swaps and Derivatives Association) agreements where each
party has the option to settle amounts on a net basis in the event of default of the other party. As there is presently not a legally
enforceable right of offset, these amounts have not been offset in the balance sheet, but have been presented separately in the
table above.
(f) Debt interest rate repricing table
The following table sets out the exposure of the Group to interest rates on debt, including commercial paper. The maturity analysis
of fixed rate debt is stated by contractual maturity and of floating rate debt by interest rate repricing dates. For the purpose of this
table, debt is defined as all classes of borrowings other than lease liabilities.
2020 2019
Total
debt Total
£m £m
Floating and fixed rate debt less than one year (3,495) (6,678)
Between one and two years (2,561) (3,235)
Between two and three years (4,061) (2,643)
Between three and four years (1,622) (2,308)
Between four and five years (1,398) (1,595)
Between five and ten years (5,981) (5,904)
Greater than ten years (6,915) (6,895)
Total (26,033) (29,258)
Original issuance profile:
Fixed rate interest (23,002) (21,763)
Floating rate interest (3,031) (7,495)
(26,033) (29,258)
GSK Annual Report 2020 227Notes to the financial statements continued
43. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
(g) Sensitivity analysis
The tables below illustrate the estimated impact on the income statement and equity as a result of hypothetical market movements
in foreign exchange and interest rates in relation to the Group’s financial instruments. The range of variables chosen for the
sensitivity analysis reflects management’s view of changes which are reasonably possible over a one-year period.
Foreign exchange sensitivity
The Group operates internationally and is primarily exposed to foreign exchange risk in relation to Sterling against movements in US
Dollar, Euro and Japanese Yen. Foreign exchange risk arises from the translation of financial assets and liabilities which are not in
the functional currency of the entity that holds them. Based on the Group’s net financial assets and liabilities as at 31 December, a
weakening and strengthening of Sterling against these currencies, with all other variables held constant, is illustrated in the tables
below. The tables exclude financial instruments that expose the Group to foreign exchange risk where this risk is fully hedged with
another financial instrument.
2020 2019
Increase/(decrease) in Increase/(decrease) in
income income
Income statement impact of non-functional currency foreign exchange exposures £m £m
10 cent appreciation of the US Dollar 20 3
10 cent appreciation of the Euro (25) (29)
10 yen appreciation of the Yen (1) –
2020 2019
Increase/(decrease) in Increase/(decrease) in
income income
Income statement impact of non-functional currency foreign exchange exposures £m £m
10 cent depreciation of the US Dollar (17) (3)
10 cent depreciation of the Euro 21 25
10 yen depreciation of the Yen 1 –
The equity impact, shown below, for foreign exchange sensitivity relates to derivative and non-derivative financial instruments
hedging the Group’s net investments in its European (Euro) foreign operations and cash flow hedges of its foreign exchange
exposure arising on Euro denominated coupon payments relating to notes issued under the Group’s European Medium Term
Note programme.
2020 2019
Increase/(decrease) Increase/(decrease)
in equity in equity
Equity impact of non-functional currency foreign exchange exposures £m £m
10 cent appreciation of the Euro (1,711) (1,561)
2020 2019
Increase/(decrease) Increase/(decrease)
in equity in equity
Equity impact of non-functional currency foreign exchange exposures £m £m
10 cent depreciation of the Euro 1,429 1,316
228 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
43. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
The tables below present the Group’s sensitivity to a weakening and strengthening of Sterling against the relevant currency based
on the composition of net debt as shown in Note 29 adjusted for the effects of foreign exchange derivatives that are not part of net
debt but affect future foreign currency cash flows.
2020 2019
(Increase)/decrease (Increase)/decrease
in net debt in net debt
Impact of foreign exchange movements on net debt £m £m
10 cent appreciation of the US Dollar (782) (1,051)
10 cent appreciation of the Euro 286 74
10 yen appreciation of the Yen 23 (5)
2020 2019
(Increase)/decrease (Increase)/decrease
in net debt in net debt
Impact of foreign exchange movements on net debt £m £m
10 cent depreciation of the US Dollar 675 903
10 cent depreciation of the Euro (239) (63)
10 yen depreciation of the Yen (20) 5
Interest rate sensitivity
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on its outstanding borrowings and investments where any changes in interest rates will
affect future cash flows or the fair values of financial instruments.
The majority of debt is issued at fixed interest rates and changes in the floating rates of interest do not significantly affect the
Group’s net interest charge, although the majority of cash and liquid investments earn floating rates of interest.
The table below hypothetically shows the Group’s sensitivity to changes in interest rates in relation to Sterling, US Dollar and Euro
floating rate financial assets and liabilities. If the interest rates applicable to floating rate financial assets and liabilities were to have
increased by 1% (100 basis points), and assuming other variables had remained constant, it is estimated that the Group’s finance
income for 2020 would have increased by approximately £14 million (2019 – £9 million decrease). A 1% (100 basis points)
movement in interest rates is not deemed to have a material effect on equity.
2020 2019
Increase/(decrease) Increase/(decrease)
in income in income
Income statement impact of interest rate movements £m £m
1% (100 basis points) increase in Sterling interest rates 8 14
1% (100 basis points) increase in US Dollar interest rates 28 (4)
1% (100 basis points) increase in Euro interest rates (22) (19)
GSK Annual Report 2020 229Notes to the financial statements continued
43. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
(h) Contractual cash flows for non-derivative financial liabilities and derivative instruments
The following tables provide an analysis of the anticipated contractual cash flows including interest payable for the Group’s non-
derivative financial liabilities on an undiscounted basis. For the purpose of this table, debt is defined as all classes of borrowings
except for lease liabilities. Interest is calculated based on debt held at 31 December without taking account of future issuance.
Floating rate interest is estimated using the prevailing interest rate at the balance sheet date. Cash flows in foreign currencies are
translated using spot rates at 31 December.
Finance Trade payables
charge and other
Interest Lease on lease liabilities not
Debt on debt liabilities liabilities in net debt Total
At 31 December 2020 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Due in less than one year (3,493) (725) (230) (34) (15,783) (20,265)
Between one and two years (2,566) (686) (207) (28) (995) (4,482)
Between two and three years (4,078) (621) (126) (22) (897) (5,744)
Between three and four years (1,632) (576) (96) (18) (867) (3,189)
Between four and five years (1,407) (539) (86) (15) (883) (2,930)
Between five and ten years (6,018) (2,177) (239) (47) (3,169) (11,650)
Greater than ten years (6,997) (2,985) (133) (16) (1,529) (11,660)
Gross contractual cash flows (26,191) (8,309) (1,117) (180) (24,123) (59,920)
Finance Trade payables
charge and other
Interest Lease on lease liabilities not
Debt on debt liabilities liabilities in net debt Total
At 31 December 2019 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Due in less than one year (6,678) (780) (240) (41) (14,952) (22,691)
Between one and two years (3,232) (742) (227) (36) (912) (5,149)
Between two and three years (2,651) (667) (119) (30) (806) (4,273)
Between three and four years (2,318) (600) (105) (23) (835) (3,881)
Between four and five years (1,607) (559) (93) (19) (799) (3,077)
Between five and ten years (5,946) (2,276) (296) (52) (3,131) (11,701)
Greater than ten years (6,976) (3,328) (170) (22) (984) (11,480)
Gross contractual cash flows (29,408) (8,952) (1,250) (223) (22,419) (62,252)
The table below provides an analysis of the anticipated contractual cash flows for the Group’s derivative instruments excluding
equity options which do not give rise to cash flows, and other embedded derivatives, which are not material, using undiscounted
cash flows. Cash flows in foreign currencies are translated using spot rates at 31 December. The gross cash flows of foreign
exchange contracts are presented for the purpose of this table although, in practice, the Group uses standard settlement
arrangements to reduce its liquidity requirements on these instruments.
Cash flows on interest rate swaps are not shown in the table below as they are not significant.
2020 2019
Gross cash inflows Gross cash ouflows Gross cash inflows Gross cash outflows
Foreign Foreign Foreign Foreign
Cross exchange Cross exchange Cross exchange Cross exchange
currency forward currency forward currency forward currency forward
interest rate contracts interest rate contracts interest rate contracts interest rate contracts
swaps and swaps swaps and swaps swaps and swaps swaps and swaps
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Due in less than one year 551 32,451 (569) (32,508) 33 33,273 (2) (33,290)
Between one and two years – – – – 1,529 – (1,430) –
Gross contractual cash flows 551 32,451 (569) (32,508) 1,562 33,273 (1,432) (33,290)
230 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
44. Employee share schemes
GSK operates several employee share schemes, including the Share Value Plan, whereby awards are granted to employees to
acquire shares or ADS in GlaxoSmithKline plc at no cost after a three year vesting period and the Performance Share Plan,
whereby awards are granted to employees to acquire shares or ADS in GlaxoSmithKline plc at no cost, subject to the achievement
by the Group of specified performance targets. The granting of these restricted share awards has replaced the granting of options
to employees as the cost of the schemes more readily equates to the potential gain to be made by the employee. The Group also
operates savings related share option schemes, whereby options are granted to employees to acquire shares in GlaxoSmithKline
plc at a discounted price.
Grants of restricted share awards are normally exercisable at the end of the three-year vesting or performance period. Awards are
normally granted to employees to acquire shares or ADS in GlaxoSmithKline plc but in some circumstances may be settled in cash.
Grants under savings-related share option schemes are normally exercisable after three years’ saving. In accordance with UK
practice, the majority of options under the savings-related share option schemes are granted at a price 20% below the market price
ruling at the date of grant. Options under historical share option schemes were granted at the market price ruling at the date of grant.
The total charge for share-based incentive plans in 2020 was £393 million (2019 – £432 million; 2018 – £393 million). Of this
amount, £313 million (2019 – £302 million; 2018 – £304 million) arose from the Share Value Plan. See Note 9, ‘Employee Costs’
for further details.
GlaxoSmithKline share award schemes
Share Value Plan
Under the Share Value Plan, share awards are granted to certain employees at no cost. The awards vest after two and a half to
three years and there are no performance criteria attached. The fair value of these awards is determined based on the closing share
price on the day of grant, after deducting the expected future dividend yield of 5.0% (2019 – 4.2%; 2018 – 4.8%) over the duration
of the award.
Shares Weighted ADS Weighted
Number of shares and ADS issuable Number (000) fair value Number (000) fair value
At 1 January 2018 33,925 17,392
Awards granted 12,751 £13.74 6,503 $35.28
Awards exercised (11,089) (5,583)
Awards cancelled (1,519) (925)
At 31 December 2018 34,068 17,387
Awards granted 12,814 £15.85 7,008 $37.90
Awards exercised (11,709) (6,079)
Awards cancelled (1,704) (976)
At 31 December 2019 33,469 17,340
Awards granted 13,223 £13.60 7,411 $34.42
Awards exercised (11,402) (5,746)
Awards cancelled (1,418) (1,015)
At 31 December 2020 33,872 17,990
Performance Share Plan
Under the Performance Share Plan, share awards are granted to Directors and senior executives at no cost. The percentage of
each award that vests is based upon the performance of the Group over a defined measurement period with dividends reinvested
during the same period. For awards granted from 2015 to 2019, the performance conditions are based on three equally weighted
measures over a three-year performance period. These were adjusted free cash flow, TSR and R&D new product performance.
For awards granted from 2020, the performance conditions are based on four measures over a three-year performance period.
These are adjusted free cash flow (30%), TSR (30%), R&D new product performance (20%) and pipeline progress (20%).
The fair value of the awards is determined based on the closing share price on the day of grant. For TSR performance elements,
this is adjusted by the likelihood of that condition being met, as assessed at the time of grant.
During 2020, awards were made of 4.2 million shares at a weighted fair value of £13.92 and 1.4 million ADS at a weighted fair
value of $35.85. At 31 December 2020, there were outstanding awards over 12.4 million shares and 3.8 million ADS.
GSK Annual Report 2020 231Notes to the financial statements continued
44. Employee share schemes continued
Share options and savings-related options
For the purposes of valuing savings-related options to arrive at the share-based payment charge, a Black-Scholes option pricing
model has been used. The assumptions used in the model are as follows:
2020 Grant 2019 Grant 2018 Grant
Risk-free interest rate (0.07)% 0.44% 0.76%
Dividend yield 6.2% 4.5% 5.3%
Volatility 27% 22% 21%
Expected life 3 years 3 years 3 years
Savings-related options grant price (including 20% discount) £10.34 £14.15 £12.09
Share option Share option Savings-related
Options outstanding
schemes – shares schemes – ADS share option schemes
Weighted Weighted Weighted
Number exercise Number exercise Number exercise
000 price 000 price 000 price
At 31 December 2020 – n/a – n/a 7,332 £11.32
Range of exercise prices on options outstanding at year end n/a n/a £10.34 – £14.15
Weighted average market price on exercise during year £16.52 $42.41 £16.29
Weighted average remaining contractual life n/a n/a 2.1 years
Options over 3.1 million shares were granted during the year under the savings-related share option scheme at a weighted average
fair value of £2.12. At 31 December 2020, 5.9 million of the savings-related share options were not exercisable. All of the other
share options and ADS options were exercisable or expired if not exercised on or before 22 July 2020.
There has been no change in the effective exercise price of any outstanding options during the year.
Employee Share Ownership Plan Trusts
The Group sponsors Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) Trusts to acquire and hold shares in GlaxoSmithKline plc to satisfy
awards made under employee incentive plans and options granted under employee share option schemes. The trustees of the
ESOP Trusts purchase shares with finance provided by the Group by way of loans or contributions. The costs of running the ESOP
Trusts are charged to the income statement. Shares held by the ESOP Trusts are deducted from other reserves and amortised
down to the value of proceeds, if any, receivable from employees on exercise by a transfer to retained earnings. The trustees have
waived their rights to dividends on the shares held by the ESOP Trusts.
Shares held for share award schemes 2020 2019
Number of shares (000) 48,835 36,225
£m £m
Nominal value 12 9
Carrying value 194 134
Market value 655 645
Shares held for share option schemes 2020 2019
Number of shares (000) 139 139
£m £m
Nominal value – –
Carrying value 1 1
Market value 2 2
232 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
45. Principal Group companies
The following represent the principal subsidiaries and their countries of incorporation of the Group at 31 December 2020.
The equity share capital of these entities is wholly owned by the Group except where its percentage interest is shown otherwise.
All companies are incorporated in their principal country of operation except where stated.
England US
Glaxo Group Limited Block Drug Company, Inc. (68%)
Glaxo Operations UK Limited Corixa Corporation
GlaxoSmithKline Capital plc GlaxoSmithKline Capital Inc.
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Holdings Limited* GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Holdings (US) LLC (68%)
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (UK) Trading Limited (68%) GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare, L.P. (59.84%)
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Trading Services Limited (68%) GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (Americas) Inc.
GlaxoSmithKline Export Limited GlaxoSmithKline LLC
GlaxoSmithKline Finance plc Human Genome Sciences, Inc.
GlaxoSmithKline Holdings Limited* GSK Consumer Health, Inc. (68%)
GlaxoSmithKline Research & Development Limited PF Consumer Healthcare 1 LLC (68%)
GlaxoSmithKline Services Unlimited* GSK Equity Investments, Limited
GlaxoSmithKline UK Limited Stiefel Laboratories, Inc.
Setfirst Limited Tesaro, Inc.
SmithKline Beecham Limited ViiV Healthcare Company (78.3%)
ViiV Healthcare Finance Limited (78.3%)
ViiV Healthcare Limited (78.3%)
ViiV Healthcare UK Limited (78.3%)
Europe Others
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals SA (Belgium) GlaxoSmithKline Australia Pty Ltd (Australia)
GlaxoSmithKline Sante Grand Public SAS (France) (68%) GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Australia Pty Ltd (Australia) (68%)
Laboratoire GlaxoSmithKline (France) GlaxoSmithKline Brasil Limitada (Brazil)
ViiV Healthcare SAS (France) (78.3%) GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare ULC/GlaxoSmithKline Soins De
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare GmbH & Co. KG (Germany) (68%) Sante Aux Consommateurs SRI (Canada) (68%)
GlaxoSmithKline GmbH & Co. KG (Germany) GlaxoSmithKline Inc. (Canada)
GSK Vaccines GmbH (Germany) ID Biomedical Corporation of Quebec (Canada)
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare S.r.l (Italy) (68%) PF Consumer Healthcare Canada ULC/PF Soins De Sante SRI (Canada) (68%)
GlaxoSmithKline S.p.A. (Italy) GlaxoSmithKline Limited (China (Hong Kong))
GSK Vaccines S.r.l. (Italy) Sino-American Tianjin Smith Kline & French Laboratories Ltd (China) (37.4%)
ViiV Healthcare S.r.l. (Italy) (78.3%) Wyeth Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd (China) (68%)
Pfizer Consumer Manufacturing Italy S.r.l. (Italy) (68%) GlaxoSmithKline Asia Pvt. Limited (India)
GSK Services Sp z o.o. (Poland) GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Limited (India) (75%)
GlaxoSmithKline Trading Services Limited (Republic of Ireland) GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Japan K.K. (Japan) (68%)
GlaxoSmithKline Healthcare AO (Russia) (68%) GlaxoSmithKline K.K. (Japan)
GlaxoSmithKline S.A. (Spain) GlaxoSmithKline Pakistan Limited (Pakistan) (82.6%)
Laboratorios ViiV Healthcare, S.L. (Spain) (78.3%) Glaxo Wellcome Manufacturing Pte Ltd. (Singapore)
GSK Consumer Healthcare S.A. (Switzerland) (68%) GlaxoSmithKline Korea Limited (Republic of Korea)
GlaxoSmithKline llaclari Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S. (Turkey)
* Directly held wholly-owned subsidiary of GlaxoSmithKline plc.
The subsidiaries and associates listed above principally affect the figures in the Group’s financial statements. Each of
GlaxoSmithKline Capital Inc., GlaxoSmithKline Capital plc and GlaxoSmithKline LLC, is a wholly-owned finance subsidiary of the
company, and the company has fully and unconditionally guaranteed the securities issued by each of GlaxoSmithKline Capital Inc.,
GlaxoSmithKline Capital plc and GlaxoSmithKline LLC.
See pages 287 to 298 for a complete list of subsidiary undertakings, associates and joint ventures, which form part of these
financial statements.
GSK Annual Report 2020 233Notes to the financial statements continued
46. Legal proceedings
The Group is involved in significant legal and administrative Dolutegravir/Tivicay/Triumeq/Dovato/Juluca
proceedings, principally product liability, intellectual property, In 2017, ViiV Healthcare received patent challenge letters
tax, anti-trust, consumer fraud and governmental investigations. under the Hatch-Waxman Act from Cipla, Dr. Reddy’s Labs
The most significant of these matters, other than tax matters, and Apotex for Triumeq and Tivicay; letters from Lupin and
are described below. The Group makes provision for these Mylan for Triumeq; and a letter from Sandoz for Tivicay. ViiV
proceedings on a regular basis as summarised in Note 2, Healthcare lists two patents in the FDA Orange Book for Tivicay
‘Accounting principles and policies’ and Note 31, ‘Other and Triumeq. One patent covers the molecule dolutegravir and
provisions’. Note 2 also describes when disclosure is made expires on 5 October 2027. The second patent claims a crystal
of proceedings for which there is no provision. Legal expenses form of dolutegravir and expires on 8 December 2029. All the
incurred and provisions related to legal claims are charged to letters challenged only the later-expiring crystal form patent.
selling, general and administration costs. The Group does not Several of the generic companies allege only that the crystal
believe that information about the amount sought by plaintiffs, if form patent is invalid, while others claim the crystal form patent
that is known, would be meaningful with respect to those legal is both invalid and not infringed by their proposed products. In
proceedings. This is due to a number of factors, including, but 2017, ViiV Healthcare filed patent infringement suits against all
not limited to, the stage of proceedings, the entitlement of six generic companies.
parties to appeal a decision and clarity as to theories of liability,
The matters against Mylan and Laurus (as a successor to
damages and governing law.
Dr. Reddy’s Labs) have been resolved. The cases against the
At 31 December 2020, the Group’s aggregate provision for other defendants have been consolidated into a single case in
legal and other disputes (not including tax matters described the US District Court for the District of Delaware. No trial date
in Note 14, ‘Taxation’) was £320 million. There can be no has yet been set.
assurance that any losses that result from the outcome of
In September 2019, ViiV Healthcare received a paragraph IV
any legal proceedings will not exceed by a material amount
letter from Cipla relating to Dovato and challenging only the
the amount of the provisions reported in the Group’s financial
crystal form patent. On 4 November 2019, ViiV Healthcare filed
statements. If this were to happen, it could have a material
suit against Cipla in the US District Court for the District of
adverse impact on the results of operations of the Group in
Delaware. No trial date has yet been set.
the reporting period in which the judgements are incurred
or the settlements entered into. In January 2020, ViiV Healthcare received a paragraph IV letter
from Lupin relating to Juluca and challenging the crystal form
Intellectual property patent as well as a patent relating to the combination of
Intellectual property claims include challenges to the validity dolutegravir and rilpivirine that expires on 24 January 2031.
and enforceability of the Group’s patents on various products On 28 February 2020, ViiV Healthcare filed suit against Lupin
or processes as well as assertions of non-infringement of on both patents. Additionally, on 12 June 2020, Cipla sent ViiV
those patents. A loss in any of these cases could result in loss Healthcare a paragraph IV letter related to Juluca, and on
of patent protection for the product at issue. The consequences 22 July 2020, ViiV Healthcare filed suit against Cipla in federal
of any such loss could be a significant decrease in sales of that court in Delaware. The court has yet to set a trial date.
product and could materially affect future results of operations
On 7 February 2018, ViiV Healthcare filed patent infringement
for the Group.
litigation regarding bictegravir against Gilead Sciences, Inc.
Coreg (Gilead) in the US District Court for the District of Delaware and
In 2014, GSK initiated suit against Teva for inducing Canadian federal court. ViiV Healthcare alleges that Gilead’s
infringement of its patent relating to the use of carvedilol (Coreg) triple combination HIV drug containing the HIV integrase
in decreasing mortality caused by congestive heart failure. In inhibitor bictegravir infringes ViiV Healthcare’s patent covering
June 2017, the case proceeded to a jury trial in the US District dolutegravir and other compounds that include dolutegravir’s
Court for the District of Delaware. The jury returned a verdict unique chemical scaffold. In both the US and Canada, ViiV
in GSK’s favour, awarding GSK lost profits and reasonable Healthcare is seeking financial redress rather than injunctive
royalties for a total award of $235.51 million. On 29 March relief. A jury trial in the US case is set for 10 January 2022.
2018, the trial judge ruled on post-trial motions filed by Teva
In the Canadian matter, a four-day summary trial on the issue
and found that substantial evidence at trial did not support
of infringement was held in January 2020. On 6 April 2020, the
the jury’s finding of induced infringement, overturning the jury
court ruled that Gilead’s bictegravir compound did not infringe
award. GSK appealed, and on 2 October 2020, a divided panel
ViiV Healthcare’s Canadian patent. ViiV Healthcare has
of the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit reversed the
appealed.
district court’s ruling and reinstated the jury award in GSK’s
favour. On 2 December 2020, Teva filed a petition for rehearing ViiV Healthcare also has commenced actions in the UK, France,
en banc. The court granted Teva’s petition, but only for a Germany, Japan, South Korea and Australia against Gilead,
rehearing by the three-member panel that issued the original alleging that Gilead’s Biktarvy infringes certain of ViiV
decision. The oral argument took place on 23 February 2021, Healthcare’s HIV integrase inhibitor patents. The infringement
and we await the court’s ruling. trial in the German action is set for 22 April 2021.
234 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
46. Legal proceedings continued
Kivexa In the UK, a long-pending group action alleging that Seroxat
In June 2017, Biogaran commenced proceedings in France caused severe discontinuation symptoms concluded on
seeking revocation of the French supplementary protection 3 July 2020, with the trial court entering judgement in the
certificate (SPC) covering Kivexa. No trial date has been set Group’s favour, along with an award of costs. A US case
for this action. involving discontinuation-type claims also resolved in 2020.
Product liability PPI litigation
The Group is currently a defendant in a number of product The Group is a defendant in the ongoing proton pump inhibitor
liability lawsuits. (PPI) litigation, in which plaintiffs allege that their use of PPIs
caused serious bodily injuries, including acute kidney injury,
Avandia
chronic kidney disease and end-stage renal failure. As of
As of January 2021, all Avandia product liability cases have
January 2021, there are approximately 1,650 Prevacid24HR
settled, but there are two remaining US class actions brought
personal injury lawsuits and approximately 2,700 Nexium24HR
by third-party payers. These actions assert claims under the
cases pending against the Company, nearly all of which are
Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO)
pending in a Multidistrict Litigation (MDL) proceeding in the
and state consumer protection laws. In December 2019,
District of New Jersey. Manufacturers of other PPIs also are
the Third Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the summary
named as co-defendants in the MDL. The Group has filed
judgements granted in favour of the Group and remanded the
motions to dismiss several hundred cases, but the MDL court
third-party payer cases back to district court. No trial dates
has not yet ruled on those motions. The first PPI bellwether trial
have yet been set.
is set for November 2021. In addition to the MDL cases, a small
Seroxat/Paxil and Paxil CR number of cases are pending in state courts.
The Seroxat/Paxil (paroxetine) product liability matters involve
Zantac
three general types of allegations: (i) that use of Paxil during
In 2019, the Group was contacted by several regulatory
pregnancy caused congenital malformations, persistent
authorities regarding the detection of N-Nitroso-dimethylamine
pulmonary hypertension or autism; (ii) that Paxil treatment
(NDMA) in Zantac (ranitidine) products. Based on information
caused patients to commit suicidal or violent acts; and (iii) that
available at the time and correspondence with regulators, the
the Group failed to warn that patients could experience certain
Group made the decision to suspend the release, distribution
symptoms on discontinuing Seroxat/Paxil treatment.
and supply of all dose forms of Zantac to all markets pending
The Group has reached agreements to settle the majority of the the outcome of the ongoing tests and investigations. Also, as
US claims relating to the use of Paxil during pregnancy as of a precautionary action, the Group made the decision to initiate
January 2021, but four lawsuits remain pending in the US. a voluntary pharmacy/retail level recall of Zantac products
Two additional actions are pending in Canada. globally.
At the beginning of 2020, there were six pending claims or On 30 April 2020, the European Medicines Agency (EMA)
cases (five in the US and one case in Canada) concerning recommended the suspension of ranitidine medicines.
allegations that patients who took paroxetine or Paxil committed Following the publication of the EMA’s recommendation, the
or attempted to commit suicide or acts of violence. The Dolin Company communicated a decision not to re-enter the market.
case, involving the suicide of a man who allegedly took generic In the US, FDA requested that all manufacturers withdraw
paroxetine manufactured by Mylan, concluded in 2020 in favour ranitidine products from the market.
of the Group, leaving five pending matters (four in the US and
The Group has been named as a defendant in approximately
one in Canada). The remaining US cases are largely dormant.
1,200 US personal injury claims involving Zantac. Class actions
In the one pending Canadian action, Carmichael, the Group
alleging economic injury and a third-party payer class action
filed a motion for summary judgement based on the statute of
also have been filed in federal court. Outside the US, there are
limitations, which was denied. The Group appealed that ruling,
three class actions pending against the Group in Canada, along
and oral argument took place on 16 December 2019. On 8 July
with a class action in Israel.
2020, the appellate court reversed the lower court’s decision
and granted summary judgement in the Group’s favour. Plaintiff
filed an application for leave to appeal to the Supreme Court of
Canada. Briefing on the application is complete as of January
2021, and the parties await a ruling.
GSK Annual Report 2020 235Notes to the financial statements continued
46. Legal proceedings continued
On 6 February 2020, the US product liability litigation was Sales and marketing and regulation
assigned Multidistrict Litigation (MDL) status in the Southern The Group’s marketing and promotion of its Pharmaceutical
District of Florida. On 24 August 2020, the Group filed motions and Vaccine products are the subject of certain governmental
to dismiss the MDL claims based on innovator liability, investigations and private lawsuits brought by litigants under
preemption and deficiencies in the pleadings. On 31 December various theories of law.
2020, the court granted the Group’s motion on innovator
GSK Korea – Proceedings under Fair Trade Laws
liability, the generic defendants’ motion on preemption and
In August 2020, GSK Korea was indicted under Korea’s
the motion of all defendants on deficiencies in the pleadings.
Monopoly Regulation and Fair Trade laws in relation to
Additionally, on 8 January 2021, the court granted the brand
government tenders of HPV (Cervarix) and PCV (Synflorix)
defendants’ partial motion on preemption, dismissing plaintiffs’
vaccines in 2018 and 2019. The prosecutor has alleged that
claims seeking refunds for the OTC Zantac product. The court
GSK Korea, through the actions of at least one of its
allowed plaintiffs to replead their master complaints in an
employees, interfered with the tender process under the
attempt to cure the deficiencies in their pleadings. The plaintiffs
National Immunisation Programme by using “straw bidders.”
have filed notices of appeal related to the decisions on innovator
liability and generic preemption. One employee also has been charged in his individual capacity
by the prosecutor in relation to the same matter. Further, a
In addition to the class action litigation, on 20 March 2020,
number of wholesalers are co-defendants in the proceedings.
the Department of Justice (DOJ) sent the Group notice of a civil
The Korea Fair Trade Commission also has commenced an
investigation it had opened into allegations of False Claims Act
investigation of GSK Korea regarding the same matter. GSK
violations by the Group related to Zantac. On 18 June 2020,
Korea is cooperating with the authorities on these matters.
the DOJ served a Civil Investigative Demand on the Group,
Proceedings are ongoing.
formalizing its request for documents. On the same day, the
New Mexico Attorney General filed a lawsuit against multiple SFO and SEC/DOJ Anti-corruption enquiries
defendants, including the Group, alleging violations of state As previously reported, following the resolution of investigations
consumer protection and false advertising statutes, among by the UK Serious Fraud Office (SFO), the US Securities
other claims. and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the US Department
of Justice (DOJ) into the Group’s commercial operations in
Zofran
a number of countries, including China, the SFO had requested
As of January 2021, the Group is a defendant in 432 product
additional information from the Group regarding third-party
liability cases involving Zofran. Two cases are pending in state
advisers engaged by the company in the course of
courts, and the rest are either pending in or being transferred
investigations initiated by China’s Ministry of Public Security in
to the Multidistrict Litigation (MDL) proceeding in the District
2013. The SEC and DOJ also were investigating these matters.
of Massachusetts. The cases allege that children suffered birth
On 22 February 2019, the SFO announced that it had closed
defects due to their mothers’ ingestion of Zofran and/or generic
its investigation and confirmed that it would be taking no further
ondansetron for pregnancy-related nausea and vomiting.
action against the Group. The SEC notified the Group on
Plaintiffs assert that the Group sold Zofran knowing it was
8 March 2020 that it was terminating its investigation into these
unsafe for pregnant women, failed to warn of the risks and
matters, and on 4 May 2020, the DOJ likewise informed the
illegally marketed Zofran “off-label” for use by pregnant women.
Group that it would be closing its investigation without a
The first Zofran bellwether trial has been set for 18 October recommendation of further action. Accordingly, this matter is
2021. The parties continue to await rulings from the court on now concluded.
motions to exclude general causation experts as well as on the
Group’s motion for summary judgement in the first case set for
trial and on its preemption motion.
The Group is also a defendant in four proposed class actions
in Canada.
236 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the financial statements continued
46. Legal proceedings continued
Anti-trust/competition On 13 December 2018, the trial judge granted plaintiffs’ class
Certain governmental actions and private lawsuits have been certification motion, certifying a class of direct purchasers. The
brought against the Group alleging violation of competition or Group filed a Rule 23(f) motion in the Court of Appeals for the
anti-trust laws. Third Circuit, challenging the class certification decision. On
22 April 2020, the Court of Appeals vacated the lower court’s
UK Competition and Markets Authority investigation
grant of class certification and remanded the issue back to the
On 12 February 2016, the UK Competition and Markets
lower court for further analysis.
Authority (CMA) issued a decision fining the Group
£37.6 million for infringement of the Competition Act, in On 9 October 2020, the district court heard argument on
connection with agreements to settle patent disputes the plaintiffs’ renewed motion for class certification after remand.
Group entered into in 2001 and 2002 with potential suppliers We await the court’s decision.
of generic paroxetine formulations.
Commercial and corporate
The Group appealed to the Competition Appeal Tribunal The Group historically has been named as a defendant in
(CAT), which delivered its initial judgement upholding the fine certain cases that allege violations of US securities laws and
on 8 March 2018 but referred certain questions of law to the the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA).
European Union Court of Justice (ECJ). On 30 January 2020,
Securities/ERISA class actions – Stiefel
the ECJ issued its judgement endorsing the criteria used by
In February 2020, the Group reached a settlement in principle
the CMA in levying the fine, and the matter now has returned
with respect to the claims brought by the US Securities and
to the CAT for entry of a final judgement.
Exchange Commission (SEC) against the Group, relating to the
Lamictal Group’s acquisition of Stiefel Laboratories, Inc., in 2009. The
Purported classes of purchasers filed suit in the US District SEC filed a motion for entry of final judgements on 23 April
Court for the District of New Jersey alleging that the Group 2020, effectively dismissing the case, and this matter has now
and Teva Pharmaceuticals unlawfully conspired to delay generic concluded. One claim brought by a private litigant, Martinolich,
competition for Lamictal, resulting in overcharges to the remains pending in federal court in Florida. In that matter,
purchasers, by entering into an allegedly anti-competitive plaintiff, a former Stiefel employee, alleges that Stiefel and its
reverse payment settlement to resolve patent infringement officers and directors violated ERISA and federal and state
litigation. A separate count accuses the Group of monopolising securities laws by inducing Stiefel employees to sell their shares
the market. in the employee stock plan back to Stiefel at a greatly
undervalued price and without disclosing to employees
that Stiefel was about to be sold to the Group.
47. Post balance sheet events
An intention to increase the UK corporation tax rate from 19% to 25% (effective 1 April 2023) was announced in the UK Budget on
3 March 2021. Deferred taxes have been measured using appropriate rates substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
The overall effect of the proposed change to the UK corporation tax rate from 19% to 25%, if applied to the deferred tax balance
at 31 December 2020, would be an increase in deferred tax assets by approximately £350 million.
GSK Annual Report 2020 237Company balance sheet – UK GAAP
(including FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’) as at 31 December 2020
2020 2020 2019 2019
Notes £m £m £m £m
Fixed assets – investments E 54,992 54,854
Current assets:
Trade and other receivables F 1,689 2,210
Cash at bank 14 12
Total current assets 1,703 2,222
Short term borrowings G – (1,000)
Trade and other payables H (531) (609)
Total current liabilities (531) (1,609)
Net current assets 1,172 613
Total assets less current liabilities 56,164 55,467
Provisions for liabilities I (7) (4)
Other non-current liabilities J (457) (317)
Net assets 55,700 55,146
Capital and reserves
Share capital K 1,346 1,346
Share premium account K 3,281 3,174
Other reserves L 1,420 1,420
Retained earnings:
At 1 January 49,206 18,117
Profit/(loss) for the year 3,893 (53)
Other changes in retained earnings (3,446) 31,142
L 49,653 49,206
Equity shareholders’ funds 55,700 55,146
The financial statements on pages 238 to 242 were approved by the Board on 8 March 2021 and signed on its behalf by
Sir Jonathan Symonds
Chairman
GlaxoSmithKline plc
Registered number: 3888792
Company statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 December 2020
Share Share premium Other Retained Total
capital account reserves earnings equity
£m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2019 1,345 3,091 1,420 18,117 23,973
Loss and Total comprehensive expense attributable to shareholders – – – (53) (53)
Distribution received of GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Holdings Limited – – – 34,800 34,800
Total comprehensive income for the year 1,345 3,091 1,420 34,747 34,747
Dividends to shareholders – – – (3,953) (3,953)
Shares issued under employee share schemes 1 50 – – 51
Treasury shares transferred to the ESOP Trusts – 33 – 295 328
At 31 December 2019 1,346 3,174 1,420 49,206 55,146
Profit and Total comprehensive income attributable to shareholders – – – 3,893 3,893
Dividends to shareholders – – – (3,977) (3,977)
Shares issued under employee share schemes – 29 – – 29
Treasury shares transferred to the ESOP Trusts – 78 – 531 609
At 31 December 2020 1,346 3,281 1,420 49,653 55,700
238 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the company balance sheet –
UK GAAP
(including FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’)
A) Presentation of the financial statements Accounting principles and policies
Description of business The preparation of the balance sheet in conformity with
GlaxoSmithKline plc is the parent company of GSK, a major generally accepted accounting principles requires management
global healthcare group which is engaged in the creation to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported
and discovery, development, manufacture and marketing of amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent
pharmaceutical products, including vaccines, over-the-counter assets and liabilities at the date of the balance sheet. Actual
(OTC) medicines and health-related consumer products. amounts could differ from those estimates.
Preparation of financial statements The balance sheet has been prepared in accordance with the
The financial statements, which are prepared using the company’s accounting policies approved by the Board and
historical cost convention (as modified to include the revaluation described in Note B. These policies have been consistently
of certain financial instruments) and on a going concern basis, applied, unless otherwise stated.
are prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard Key accounting judgements and estimates
101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’ and with UK accounting No key accounting judgements or estimates were required in
presentation and the Companies Act 2006 as at 31 December the current year.
2020, with comparative figures as at 31 December 2019.
B) Accounting policies
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the
Foreign currency transactions
income statement of the company is not presented in this
Foreign currency transactions are recorded at the exchange
Annual Report.
rate ruling on the date of transaction. Foreign currency assets
The company is included in the Group financial statements of and liabilities are translated at rates of exchange ruling at the
GlaxoSmithKline plc, which are publicly available. balance sheet date.
The following exemptions from the requirements of IFRS have Dividends paid and received
been applied in the preparation of these financial statements, Dividends paid and received are included in the financial
in accordance with FRS 101: statements in the period in which the related dividends are
– Paragraphs 45(b) and 46 to 52 of IFRS 2, ‘Share-based actually paid or received.
payment’ Expenditure
– IFRS 7, ‘Financial Instruments – Disclosures’ Expenditure is recognised in respect of goods and services
received when supplied in accordance with contractual terms.
– Paragraphs 91-99 of IFRS 13, ‘Fair value measurement’
Provision is made when an obligation exists for a future liability
– Paragraph 38 of IAS 1, ‘Presentation of financial statements’ in respect of a past event and where the amount of the
comparative information requirements in respect of obligation can be reliably estimated.
paragraph 79(a) (iv) of IAS 1
Investments in subsidiary companies
– Paragraphs 10(d), 10(f), 16, 38(A), 38 (B to D), 40 (A to D), Investments in subsidiary companies are held at cost less any
111 and 134 to 136 of IAS 1, ‘Presentation of financial provision for impairment and also includes a capital contribution
statements’ in relation to movements in contingent consideration.
– IAS 7, ‘Statement of cash flows’ Impairment of investments
The carrying value of investments are reviewed for impairment
– Paragraph 30 and 31 of IAS 8, ‘Accounting policies, changes
when there is an indication that the investment might be
in accounting estimates and errors’
impaired. One of the assessment methods used is to compare
– Paragraph 17 of IAS 24, ‘Related party disclosures’ and the the carrying value of each investment against its share of the
further requirement in IAS 24 to disclose related party Group’s valuation on the basis of overall market capitalisation.
transactions entered into between two or more members Any impairment charge is recognised in the income statement
of a Group. in the year concerned.
Accounting convention and standards Share-based payments
The balance sheet has been prepared using the historical The issuance by the company to its subsidiaries of a grant
cost convention and complies with applicable UK accounting over the company’s shares, represents additional capital
standards. contributions by the company in its subsidiaries. An additional
investment in subsidiaries results in a corresponding increase
in shareholders’ equity. The additional capital contribution is
based on the fair value of the grant issued, allocated over the
underlying grant’s vesting period.
GSK Annual Report 2020 239Notes to the company balance sheet – UK GAAP
(including FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’) continued
Taxation Financial guarantees
Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid Liabilities relating to guarantees issued by the company on
applying tax rates that have been enacted or substantively behalf of its subsidiaries are initially recognised at fair value
enacted by the balance sheet date. and amortised over the life of the guarantee.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on C) Operating profit
temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets A fee of £12,600 (2019 – £12,000) relating to the audit of the
and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial company has been charged in operating profit.
statements. Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the
D) Dividends
extent that they are considered recoverable against future
The directors declared four interim dividends resulting in a
taxable profits.
dividend for the year of 80 pence, in line with the dividend for
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are
2019. For further details, see Note 16 to the Group financial
expected to apply in the periods in which the temporary
statements, ‘Dividends’.
differences are expected to be realised or settled. Deferred
tax liabilities and assets are not discounted.
E) Fixed assets – investments
2020 2019
£m £m
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Services Unlimited 637 637
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (One) Limited 18 18
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Holdings Limited 17,888 17,888
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Holdings Limited 34,800 34,800
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Mercury Limited 33 33
53,376 53,376
Capital contribution relating to share-based payments 1,139 1,139
Contribution relating to contingent consideration 477 339
54,992 54,854
The shares in GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Holdings Limited were received during 2019 as a dividend in specie as part
of a Group reorganisation prior to the acquisition of the Pfizer consumer healthcare business.
F) Trade and other receivables
2020 2019
£m £m
Amounts due within one year:
UK Corporation tax recoverable 10 14
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 1,231 1,645
1,241 1,659
Amounts due after more than one year:
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 448 551
1,689 2,210
240 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Notes to the company balance sheet – UK GAAP
(including FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’) continued
G) Short-term borrowings
The £1 billion borrowing at 31 December 2019 related to the balance of a facility taken out in June 2018 as part of the financing
of the buyout of the non-controlling interest in the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture held by Novartis. This loan was repaid on
18 May 2020.
H) Trade and other payables
2020 2019
£m £m
Amounts due within one year:
Other creditors 511 564
Contingent consideration payable 20 22
Amounts owed to Group undertakings – 23
531 609
The company has guaranteed debt issued by its subsidiary companies from two of which it receives fees. In aggregate, the company
has outstanding guarantees over £24.9 billion of debt instruments (2019 – £27.8 billion). The amounts due from the subsidiary
company in relation to these guarantee fees will be recovered over the life of the bonds and are disclosed within ‘Trade and other
receivables’ (see Note F).
I) Provisions for liabilities
2020 2019
£m £m
At 1 January 4 16
Charge for the year 15 5
Utilised (12) (17)
At 31 December 7 4
The provisions relate to a number of legal and other disputes in which the company is currently involved.
J) Other non-current liabilities
2020 2019
£m £m
Contingent consideration payable 457 317
457 317
The contingent consideration relates to the amount payable for the acquisition in 2015 of the Novartis Vaccines portfolio. The
current year liability is included within ‘Trade and other payables’. For further details, see Note 32 to the Group financial statements,
‘Contingent consideration liabilities’.
GSK Annual Report 2020 241Notes to the company balance sheet – UK GAAP
(including FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’) continued
K) Share capital and share premium account
Share
premium
Ordinary Shares of 25p each account
Number £m £m
Share capital issued and fully paid
At 1 January 2019 5,379,067,624 1,345 3,091
Issued under employee share schemes 4,034,607 1 50
Ordinary shares acquired by ESOP trusts – – 33
At 31 December 2019 5,383,102,231 1,346 3,174
Issued under employee share schemes 2,087,386 – 29
Ordinary shares acquired by ESOP trusts – – 78
At 31 December 2020 5,385,189,617 1,346 3,281
31 December 31 December
2020 2019
000 000
Number of shares issuable under employee share schemes 48,205 57,871
Number of unissued shares not under option 4,566,605 4,559,027
At 31 December 2020, of the issued share capital, 48,975,304 shares were held in the ESOP Trusts, 355,205,950 shares were
held as Treasury shares and 4,981,008,363 shares were in free issue. All issued shares are fully paid. The nominal, carrying and
market values of the shares held in the ESOP Trusts are disclosed in Note 44, ‘Employee share schemes’.
L) Retained earnings and other reserves
The profit of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year was £3,893 million (2019 – £53 million loss). After dividends paid of £3,977 million
(2019 – £3,953 million), the effect of £531 million Treasury shares transferred to a subsidiary company (2019 – £295 million) and
no distribution received of the shares in a subsidiary company (2019 – £34,800) million, retained earnings at 31 December 2020
stood at £49,653 million (2019 – £49,206 million), of which £38,896 million was unrealised (2019 – £38,896 million). Dividends
to shareholders are paid out of the realised profits of the company, which at 31 December 2020 amounted to £10,757 million
(2019 – £10,310 million).
Other reserves includes a capital redemption reserve and a reserve reflecting historical contributions of shares in the company
which were issued to satisfy share option awards granted to employees of subsidiary companies.
M) Group companies
See pages 287 to 298 for a complete list of subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures and other significant shareholdings, which forms
part of these financial statements.
242 GSK Annual Report 2020SSttrraatteeggicic r erepporotrt
GGoovveerrnnaannccee a nadn dre rmeumnuernaetiroantion
FFiinnaanncciaial ls stattaetmemenetsnts
IInnvveessttoor ri ninfoformrmataiotnion
Investor
information
In this section
Quarterly trend 244
Pharmaceuticals turnover 246
Vaccines turnover 248
Five year record 249
Product development pipeline 255
Products, competition and intellectual property 258
Principal risks and uncertainties 261
Share capital and control 276
Dividends 278
Financial calendar 2021 279
Annual General Meeting 2021 279
Tax information for shareholders 280
Shareholder services and contacts 282
US law and regulation 284
Group companies 287
Glossary of terms 299
GGSSKK AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22002200 224433Financial record
Quarterly trend
An unaudited analysis of the Group results is provided by quarter in Sterling for the financial year 2020.
Income statement – Total
12 months 2020 Q4 2020 Q3 2020 Q2 2020 Q1 2020
Reported Pro-forma Reported Reported Reported Reported
£m £% CER% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER%
Turnover
Pharmaceuticals 17,056 (3) (1) (1) 4,366 (4) (3) 4,192 (7) (3) 4,102 (5) (5) 4,396 6 6
Vaccines 6,982 (2) (1) (1) 2,012 15 16 2,032 (12) (9) 1,133 (29) (29) 1,805 19 19
Consumer Healthcare 10,033 12 14 (2) 2,360 (8) (7) 2,422 (4) 2 2,389 25 25 2,862 44 46
34,071 1 3 (2) 8,738 (1) – 8,646 (8) (3) 7,624 (2) (3) 9,063 18 19
Corporate and other unallocated turnover 28 1 – – 27
Total turnover 34,099 1 3 (2) 8,739 (2) (1) 8,646 (8) (3) 7,624 (2) (3) 9,090 19 19
Cost of sales (11,704) (1) – (3,171) (2) (2) (2,885) (11) (8) (2,449) (7) (7) (3,199) 17 18
Selling, general and administration (11,456) – 2 (3,162) (8) (6) (2,669) (8) (4) (2,709) 5 5 (2,916) 18 19
Research and development (5,098) 12 12 (1,470) 18 19 (1,140) (5) (2) (1,301) 17 15 (1,187) 18 18
Royalty income 318 (9) (9) 91 11 12 85 (28) (26) 75 (4) (10) 67 (8) (5)
Other operating income/(expense) 1,624 34 (179) 1,610 159
Operating profit 7,783 12 15 1,061 (44) (44) 1,858 (13) (2) 2,850 92 90 2,014 41 42
Net finance costs (848) (234) (198) (228) (188)
Share of after-tax profits/(losses) of associates
and joint ventures 33 (6) 11 19 9
Profit before taxation 6,968 12 16 821 (52) (52) 1,671 (14) (2) 2,641 >100 >100 1,835 42 42
Taxation (580) 18 (241) (201) (156)
Tax rate % 8.3% (2.2)% 14.4% 7.6% 8.5%
Profit after taxation for the period 6,388 21 25 839 (45) (45) 1,430 (17) (5) 2,440 >100 >100 1,679 70 71
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 639 162 186 177 114
Profit attributable to shareholders 5,749 677 1,244 2,263 1,565
Basic earnings per share (pence) 115.5p 23 26 13.6p (48) (48) 25.0p (20) (9) 45.5p >100 >100 31.5p 87 89
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 114.1p 13.4p 24.7p 45.0p 31.2p
Income statement – Adjusted
Total turnover 34,099 1 3 (2) 8,739 (2) (1) 8,646 (8) (3) 7,624 (2) (3) 9,090 19 19
Cost of sales (10,191) 1 2 (3) (2,792) (2) (2) (2,540) (9) (6) (2,249) – – (2,610) 18 20
Selling, general and administration (10,717) – 2 (3) (2,924) (6) (4) (2,477) (11) (7) (2,530) 4 4 (2,786) 16 18
Research and development (4,603) 6 7 6 (1,297) 11 12 (1,049) (10) (6) (1,171) 13 11 (1,086) 12 11
Royalty income 318 (9) (9) (9) 91 11 12 85 (28) (26) 75 (4) (10) 67 (8) (5)
Operating profit 8,906 (1) 2 (3) 1,817 (2) (1) 2,665 (4) 4 1,749 (19) (21) 2,675 24 24
Net finance costs (844) (233) (197) (227) (187)
Share of after-tax profits/(losses) of associates
and joint ventures 33 (6) 11 19 9
Profit before taxation 8,095 (2) 1 1,578 (5) (5) 2,479 (5) 4 1,541 (21) (22) 2,497 23 23
Taxation (1,295) (220) (417) (316) (342)
Tax rate % 16.0% 13.9% 16.8% 20.5% 13.7%
Profit after taxation for the period 6,800 (2) 1 1,358 (6) (6) 2,062 (6) 3 1,225 (26) (27) 2,155 32 32
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 1,031 195 287 267 282
Profit attributable to shareholders 5,769 1,163 1,775 958 1,873
Adjusted earnings per share (pence) 115.9p (6) (4) 23.3p (6) (5) 35.6p (8) 1 19.2p (37) (38) 37.7p 25 26
The calculation of Adjusted results is described on page 51.
244 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Financial record continued
Quarterly trend Quarterly trend continued
An unaudited analysis of the Group results is provided by quarter in Sterling for the financial year 2020.
Income statement – Total
12 months 2020 Q4 2020 Q3 2020 Q2 2020 Q1 2020
Reported Pro-forma Reported Reported Reported Reported
£m £% CER% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER%
Turnover
Pharmaceuticals 17,056 (3) (1) (1) 4,366 (4) (3) 4,192 (7) (3) 4,102 (5) (5) 4,396 6 6
Vaccines 6,982 (2) (1) (1) 2,012 15 16 2,032 (12) (9) 1,133 (29) (29) 1,805 19 19
Consumer Healthcare 10,033 12 14 (2) 2,360 (8) (7) 2,422 (4) 2 2,389 25 25 2,862 44 46
34,071 1 3 (2) 8,738 (1) – 8,646 (8) (3) 7,624 (2) (3) 9,063 18 19
Corporate and other unallocated turnover 28 1 – – 27
Total turnover 34,099 1 3 (2) 8,739 (2) (1) 8,646 (8) (3) 7,624 (2) (3) 9,090 19 19
Cost of sales (11,704) (1) – (3,171) (2) (2) (2,885) (11) (8) (2,449) (7) (7) (3,199) 17 18
Selling, general and administration (11,456) – 2 (3,162) (8) (6) (2,669) (8) (4) (2,709) 5 5 (2,916) 18 19
Research and development (5,098) 12 12 (1,470) 18 19 (1,140) (5) (2) (1,301) 17 15 (1,187) 18 18
Royalty income 318 (9) (9) 91 11 12 85 (28) (26) 75 (4) (10) 67 (8) (5)
Other operating income/(expense) 1,624 34 (179) 1,610 159
Operating profit 7,783 12 15 1,061 (44) (44) 1,858 (13) (2) 2,850 92 90 2,014 41 42
Net finance costs (848) (234) (198) (228) (188)
Share of after-tax profits/(losses) of associates
and joint ventures 33 (6) 11 19 9
Profit before taxation 6,968 12 16 821 (52) (52) 1,671 (14) (2) 2,641 >100 >100 1,835 42 42
Taxation (580) 18 (241) (201) (156)
Tax rate % 8.3% (2.2)% 14.4% 7.6% 8.5%
Profit after taxation for the period 6,388 21 25 839 (45) (45) 1,430 (17) (5) 2,440 >100 >100 1,679 70 71
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 639 162 186 177 114
Profit attributable to shareholders 5,749 677 1,244 2,263 1,565
Basic earnings per share (pence) 115.5p 23 26 13.6p (48) (48) 25.0p (20) (9) 45.5p >100 >100 31.5p 87 89
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 114.1p 13.4p 24.7p 45.0p 31.2p
Income statement – Adjusted
Total turnover 34,099 1 3 (2) 8,739 (2) (1) 8,646 (8) (3) 7,624 (2) (3) 9,090 19 19
Cost of sales (10,191) 1 2 (3) (2,792) (2) (2) (2,540) (9) (6) (2,249) – – (2,610) 18 20
Selling, general and administration (10,717) – 2 (3) (2,924) (6) (4) (2,477) (11) (7) (2,530) 4 4 (2,786) 16 18
Research and development (4,603) 6 7 6 (1,297) 11 12 (1,049) (10) (6) (1,171) 13 11 (1,086) 12 11
Royalty income 318 (9) (9) (9) 91 11 12 85 (28) (26) 75 (4) (10) 67 (8) (5)
Operating profit 8,906 (1) 2 (3) 1,817 (2) (1) 2,665 (4) 4 1,749 (19) (21) 2,675 24 24
Net finance costs (844) (233) (197) (227) (187)
Share of after-tax profits/(losses) of associates
and joint ventures 33 (6) 11 19 9
Profit before taxation 8,095 (2) 1 1,578 (5) (5) 2,479 (5) 4 1,541 (21) (22) 2,497 23 23
Taxation (1,295) (220) (417) (316) (342)
Tax rate % 16.0% 13.9% 16.8% 20.5% 13.7%
Profit after taxation for the period 6,800 (2) 1 1,358 (6) (6) 2,062 (6) 3 1,225 (26) (27) 2,155 32 32
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 1,031 195 287 267 282
Profit attributable to shareholders 5,769 1,163 1,775 958 1,873
Adjusted earnings per share (pence) 115.9p (6) (4) 23.3p (6) (5) 35.6p (8) 1 19.2p (37) (38) 37.7p 25 26
The calculation of Adjusted results is described on page 51.
GSK Annual Report 2020 245Financial record continued
Pharmaceutical turnover by therapeutic area 2020
Total US Europe International
2020 2019 Growth 2020 Growth 2020 Growth 2020 Growth
Therapeutic area/major products £m £m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER%
Respiratory 3,749 3,081 22 23 2,114 21 23 944 21 20 691 24 27
Ellipta products 2,755 2,313 19 20 1,516 18 19 706 22 22 533 19 22
Anoro Ellipta 547 514 6 8 327 1 2 142 18 17 78 11 17
Arnuity Ellipta 45 48 (6) (6) 37 (10) (7) – – – 8 14 –
Incruse Ellipta 220 262 (16) (15) 117 (27) (27) 74 1 1 29 4 7
Relvar/Breo Ellipta 1,124 971 16 17 474 24 25 322 14 13 328 6 9
Trelegy Ellipta 819 518 58 59 561 47 48 168 65 65 90 >100 >100
Nucala 994 768 29 30 598 32 33 238 16 15 158 45 46
HIV 4,876 4,854 – 1 3,005 – 1 1,213 5 4 658 (5) (1)
Dolutegravir products 4,702 4,633 1 2 2,941 – 1 1,163 7 6 598 (2) 3
Tivicay 1,527 1,662 (8) (7) 871 (11) (10) 368 (7) (8) 288 (1) 5
Triumeq 2,306 2,549 (10) (9) 1,454 (10) (9) 568 (9) (10) 284 (9) (6)
Juluca 495 366 35 36 387 28 29 97 73 71 11 57 71
Dovato 374 56 >100 >100 229 >100 >100 130 >100 >100 15 >100 >100
Epzicom/Kivexa 31 75 (59) (59) 1 (67) (67) 9 (61) (61) 21 (57) (57)
Selzentry 91 97 (6) (5) 47 (11) (11) 27 (7) (7) 17 13 20
Rukobia 11 – – – 11 – – – – – – – –
Other 41 49 (16) (12) 5 (50) (40) 14 (22) (17) 22 5 5
Immuno-inflammation 727 613 19 20 612 14 16 56 22 20 59 84 91
Benlysta 719 613 17 19 612 14 16 56 22 20 51 59 66
Oncology 372 230 62 62 231 72 74 136 42 40 5 – –
Zejula 339 229 48 48 206 54 55 128 35 33 5 – –
Blenrep 33 – – – 25 – – 8 – – – – –
Pharmaceuticals
excluding established
products 9,724 8,778 11 12 5,962 10 11 2,349 13 12 1,413 10 14
Established pharmaceuticals 7,332 8,776 (16) (15) 1,489 (25) (24) 1,755 (14) (15) 4,088 (14) (11)
Established Respiratory 3,251 3,900 (17) (15) 1,048 (26) (25) 738 (9) (9) 1,465 (13) (10)
Seretide/Advair 1,535 1,730 (11) (10) 434 (14) (13) 449 (11) (11) 652 (10) (7)
Flixotide/Flovent 419 629 (33) (32) 183 (50) (50) 80 (9) (10) 156 (10) (5)
Ventolin 785 938 (16) (14) 430 (21) (20) 116 (3) (4) 239 (12) (7)
Avamys/Veramyst 297 324 (8) (6) – – – 66 (4) (4) 231 (10) (7)
Other Respiratory 215 279 (23) (23) 1 >100 >100 27 (4) – 187 (25) (26)
Dermatology 425 445 (4) (1) 1 (67) (67) 140 (12) (13) 284 – 6
Augmentin 490 602 (19) (15) – – – 145 (16) (16) 345 (20) (15)
Avodart 466 574 (19) (17) 5 25 25 158 (24) (25) 303 (16) (13)
Imigran/Imitrex 118 138 (14) (14) 42 (29) (29) 51 (2) (4) 25 (7) (4)
Lamictal 537 566 (5) (4) 269 (5) (5) 120 7 6 148 (13) (9)
Seroxat/Paxil 146 160 (9) (6) – – – 37 – (3) 109 (11) (7)
Valtrex 103 107 (4) (2) 15 7 7 32 3 – 56 (10) (5)
Other 1,796 2,284 (21) (20) 109 (48) (47) 334 (28) (28) 1,353 (16) (14)
Pharmaceuticals 17,056 17,554 (3) (1) 7,451 1 2 4,104 (1) (1) 5,501 (9) (5)
246 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Financial record continued
Pharmaceutical turnover by therapeutic area 2019
Total US Europe International
2019 2018 Growth 2019 Growth 2019 Growth 2019 Growth
Therapeutic area/major products £m £m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER%
Respiratory 3,081 2,612 18 15 1,742 10 6 783 29 29 556 33 31
Ellipta products 2,313 2,049 13 10 1,289 4 – 577 26 27 447 29 27
Anoro Ellipta 514 476 8 5 324 2 (2) 120 19 20 70 23 21
Arnuity Ellipta 48 44 9 5 41 5 3 – – – 7 40 20
Incruse Ellipta 262 284 (8) (10) 161 (13) (17) 73 (1) (1) 28 17 17
Relvar/Breo Ellipta 971 1,089 (11) (13) 381 (34) (37) 282 11 12 308 21 19
Trelegy Ellipta 518 156 >100 >100 382 >100 >100 102 >100 >100 34 >100 >100
Nucala 768 563 36 33 453 33 28 206 36 37 109 56 50
HIV 4,854 4,722 3 1 3,004 3 (1) 1,156 (3) (2) 694 13 13
Dolutegravir products 4,633 4,420 5 2 2,938 4 – 1,086 – – 609 22 22
Tivicay 1,662 1,639 1 (1) 977 (6) (9) 395 5 6 290 28 28
Triumeq 2,549 2,648 (4) (6) 1,611 (4) (7) 626 (11) (11) 312 15 15
Juluca 366 133 >100 >100 303 >100 >100 56 >100 >100 7 >100 >100
Dovato 56 – – – 47 – – 9 – – – – –
Epzicom/Kivexa 75 117 (36) (35) 3 (57) (57) 23 (48) (48) 49 (26) (24)
Selzentry 97 115 (16) (17) 53 (9) (12) 29 (17) (14) 15 (32) (32)
Other 49 70 (30) (31) 10 (44) (44) 18 (25) (29) 21 (25) (25)
Immuno-inflammation 613 472 30 25 535 27 23 46 28 28 32 >100 94
Benlysta 613 473 30 25 535 27 23 46 24 24 32 >100 94
Oncology 230 – – – 134 – – 96 – – – – –
Zejula 229 – – – 134 – – 95 – – – – –
Pharmaceuticals
excluding established
products 8,778 7,806 12 10 5,415 10 6 2,081 13 14 1,282 22 21
Established pharmaceuticals 8,776 9,463 (7) (8) 1,987 (22) (24) 2,044 (8) (8) 4,745 1 1
Established Respiratory 3,900 4,316 (10) (11) 1,415 (21) (23) 807 (13) (12) 1,678 4 3
Seretide/Advair 1,730 2,422 (29) (29) 502 (54) (56) 502 (16) (16) 726 – (1)
Flixotide/Flovent 629 595 6 4 368 11 6 88 (5) (4) 173 2 2
Ventolin 938 737 27 25 547 55 49 120 (8) (7) 271 6 7
Avamys/Veramyst 324 300 8 6 (2) >(100) >(100) 69 (7) (5) 257 14 11
Other Respiratory 279 262 6 2 – – – 28 – (4) 251 7 3
Dermatology 445 435 2 3 3 – – 159 (1) (1) 283 4 6
Augmentin 602 570 6 6 – – – 172 (5) (4) 430 11 11
Avodart 574 572 – (1) 4 (67) (67) 208 (13) (12) 362 13 11
Imigran/Imitrex 138 141 (2) (3) 59 2 – 52 (9) (7) 27 4 –
Lamictal 566 617 (8) (10) 284 (8) (12) 112 (1) – 170 (12) (13)
Seroxat/Paxil 160 170 (6) (6) – – – 37 (5) (5) 123 (6) (7)
Valtrex 107 123 (13) (15) 14 (33) (38) 31 3 3 62 (14) (15)
Other 2,284 2,519 (9) (9) 208 (40) (43) 466 (5) (4) 1,610 (4) (4)
Pharmaceuticals 17,554 17,269 2 – 7,402 (1) (4) 4,125 1 2 6,027 5 4
GSK Annual Report 2020 247Financial record continued
Vaccines turnover 2020
Total US Europe International
2020 2019 Growth 2020 Growth 2020 Growth 2020 Growth
Major products £m £m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER%
Meningitis 1,029 1,018 1 3 433 1 2 356 4 3 240 (2) 4
Bexsero 650 679 (4) (2) 260 – 1 324 2 1 66 (34) (20)
Menveo 265 267 (1) 1 173 2 3 26 44 39 66 (16) (13)
Other 114 72 58 57 – – – 6 – – 108 64 62
Influenza 733 541 35 37 535 30 31 98 75 73 100 37 42
Fluarix, FluLaval 733 541 35 37 535 30 31 98 75 73 100 37 42
Shingles 1,989 1,810 10 11 1,675 – 1 186 >100 >100 128 47 49
Shingrix 1,989 1,810 10 11 1,675 – 1 186 >100 >100 128 47 49
Established vaccines 3,231 3,788 (15) (14) 1,054 (24) (24) 801 (23) (23) 1,376 1 3
Infanrix, Pediarix 629 733 (14) (13) 311 (14) (13) 174 (18) (19) 144 (10) (6)
Boostrix 476 584 (18) (18) 257 (14) (13) 140 (10) (11) 79 (39) (36)
Hepatitis 576 874 (34) (33) 333 (37) (36) 140 (39) (39) 103 (10) (6)
Rotarix 559 558 – 1 123 (12) (11) 119 6 6 317 4 5
Synflorix 402 468 (14) (14) – – – 53 (2) (2) 349 (16) (15)
Priorix, Priorix Tetra, Varilrix 261 232 13 14 – – – 126 26 25 135 2 5
Cervarix 139 50 >100 >100 – – – 30 43 43 109 >100 >100
Other 189 289 (35) (35) 30 (55) (56) 19 (87) (87) 140 87 85
Vaccines 6,982 7,157 (2) (1) 3,697 (5) (4) 1,441 (3) (4) 1,844 5 7
£% represents growth at actual exchange rates. CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates.
Vaccines turnover 2019
Total US Europe International
2019 2018 Growth 2019 Growth 2019 Growth 2019 Growth
Major products £m £m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER%
Meningitis 1,018 881 16 15 430 15 10 343 2 3 245 43 50
Bexsero 679 584 16 16 260 30 25 319 3 4 100 37 48
Menveo 267 232 15 13 170 (2) (6) 18 6 6 79 93 100
Other 72 65 11 11 – – – 6 (25) (25) 66 16 16
Influenza 541 523 3 1 412 7 3 56 (15) (15) 73 1 4
Fluarix, FluLaval 541 523 3 1 412 7 3 56 (15) (15) 73 1 4
Shingles 1,810 784 >100 >100 1,669 >100 >100 54 >100 >100 87 78 76
Shingrix 1,810 784 >100 >100 1,669 >100 >100 54 >100 >100 87 78 76
Established vaccines 3,788 3,706 2 1 1,394 15 11 1,035 (11) (10) 1,359 1 2
Infanrix, Pediarix 733 680 8 6 360 22 17 213 (20) (19) 160 36 35
Boostrix 584 517 13 11 299 13 9 156 (4) (3) 129 43 44
Hepatitis 874 808 8 6 529 16 11 231 (6) (5) 114 9 10
Rotarix 558 521 7 6 140 11 6 112 2 3 306 7 8
Synflorix 468 424 10 11 – – – 54 (7) (5) 414 13 13
Priorix, Priorix Tetra, Varilrix 232 305 (24) (23) – – – 100 (37) (37) 132 (9) (9)
Cervarix 50 138 (64) (64) – – – 21 5 5 29 (75) (76)
Other 289 313 (8) (7) 66 3 2 148 8 10 75 (33) (33)
Vaccines 7,157 5,894 21 19 3,905 45 39 1,488 (5) (4) 1,764 8 9
£% represents growth at actual exchange rates. CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates.
248 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Financial record continued
Five year record
A record of financial performance is provided, analysed in accordance with current reporting practice. The information included in
the Five year record is prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union and also with IFRS as issued by the
International Accounting Standards Board.
2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
Group turnover by geographic region £m £m £m £m £m
US 14,556 13,890 11,982 11,263 10,197
Europe 8,164 8,069 7,973 7,943 7,476
International 11,379 11,795 10,866 10,980 10,216
34,099 33,754 30,821 30,186 27,889
2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
Group turnover by segment £m £m £m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals 17,056 17,554 17,269 17,276 16,104
Vaccines 6,982 7,157 5,894 5,160 4,592
Consumer Healthcare 10,033 8,995 7,658 7,750 7,193
Segment turnover 34,071 33,706 30,821 30,186 27,889
Corporate and other unallocated turnover 28 48 – – –
34,099 33,754 30,821 30,186 27,889
2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
Pharmaceuticals turnover £m £m £m £m £m
Respiratory 3,749 3,081 2,612 1,930 1,052
HIV 4,876 4,854 4,722 4,350 3,556
Immuno-inflammation 727 613 472 377 340
Oncology 372 230 – – –
Established Pharmaceuticals 7,332 8,776 9,463 10,619 11,156
17,056 17,554 17,269 17,276 16,104
2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
Vaccines turnover £m £m £m £m £m
Meningitis 1,029 1,018 881 890 662
Influenza 733 541 523 488 414
Shingles 1,989 1,810 784 22 –
Established Vaccines 3,231 3,788 3,706 3,760 3,516
6,982 7,157 5,894 5,160 4,592
2019 2018 2017 2016
2020 (revised) (revised) (revised) (revised)
Consumer Healthcare turnover £m £m £m £m £m
Oral health 2,753 2,673 2,496 2,466 2,223
Pain relief 2,219 1,781 1,440 1,465 1,329
Vitamins, minerals and supplements 1,506 611 103 105 101
Respiratory health 1,209 1,186 1,085 1,057 965
Digestive health and other 1,824 1,646 1,435 1,447 1,370
Sub-total 9,511 7,897 6,559 6,540 5,988
Brands divested/under review 522 1,098 1,099 1,210 1,205
10,033 8,995 7,658 7,750 7,193
GSK Annual Report 2020 249Financial record continued
Five year record continued
2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
Financial results – Total £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 34,099 33,754 30,821 30,186 27,889
Operating profit 7,783 6,961 5,483 4,087 2,598
Profit before taxation 6,968 6,221 4,800 3,525 1,939
Profit after taxation 6,388 5,268 4,046 2,169 1,062
pence pence pence pence pence
Basic earnings per share 115.5 93.9 73.7 31.4 18.8
Diluted earnings per share 114.1 92.6 72.9 31.0 18.6
2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
millions millions millions millions millions
Weighted average number of shares in issue:
Basic 4,976 4,947 4,914 4,886 4,860
Diluted 5,038 5,016 4,971 4,941 4,909
2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
Financial results – Adjusted £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 34,099 33,754 30,821 30,186 27,889
Operating profit 8,906 8,972 8,745 8,568 7,671
Profit before taxation 8,095 8,236 8,078 7,924 7,024
Profit after taxation 6,800 6,918 6,543 6,257 5,526
pence pence pence pence pence
Adjusted earnings per share 115.9 123.9 119.4 111.8 100.6
% % % % %
Return on capital employed 35.6 56.5 134.0 83.4 28.0
Return on capital employed is calculated as total profit before taxation as a percentage of average net assets over the year.
250 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Financial record continued
Five year record continued
2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
Balance sheet £m £m £m £m £m
Non-current assets 60,184 60,201 41,139 40,474 42,370
Current assets 20,247 19,491 16,927 15,907 16,711
Total assets 80,431 79,692 58,066 56,381 59,081
Current liabilities (22,148) (24,050) (22,491) (26,569) (19,001)
Non-current liabilities (37,475) (37,285) (31,903) (26,323) (35,117)
Total liabilities (59,623) (61,335) (54,394) (52,892) (54,118)
Net assets 20,808 18,357 3,672 3,489 4,963
Shareholders’ equity 14,587 11,405 3,781 (68) 1,124
Non-controlling interests 6,221 6,952 (109) 3,557 3,839
Total equity 20,808 18,357 3,672 3,489 4,963
Number of employees
2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
US 15,706 16,676 13,804 14,526 14,491
Europe 40,711 40,524 41,943 43,002 42,330
International 37,649 42,237 39,743 40,934 42,479
94,066 99,437 95,490 98,462 99,300
Manufacturing 33,848 36,925 36,527 38,245 38,372
Selling 36,391 39,184 36,351 37,374 38,158
Administration 11,730 11,249 10,768 11,307 11,244
Research and development 12,097 12,079 11,844 11,536 11,526
94,066 99,437 95,490 98,462 99,300
The geographic distribution of employees in the table above is based on the location of GSK’s subsidiary companies. The number
of employees is the number of permanent employed staff at the end of the financial period. It excludes those employees who are
employed and managed by GSK on a contract basis.
Exchange rates
As a guide to holders of ADS, the following tables set out, for the periods indicated, information on the exchange rate of US Dollars
for Sterling as reported by the Bank of England (4pm buying rate).
The average rate for the year is calculated as the average of the 4pm buying rates for each day of the year.
2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
Average 1.29 1.28 1.34 1.29 1.35
2021 2021 2021 2020 2020 2020 2020
Mar Feb Jan Dec Nov Oct Sep
High 1.40 1.41 1.37 1.36 1.34 1.32 1.35
Low 1.39 1.36 1.35 1.32 1.29 1.29 1.27
The 4pm buying rate on 3 March was £1= US$1.40.
GSK Annual Report 2020 251Financial record continued
Five year record continued
Divestments,
Intangible Intangible significant
Adjusted results reconciliation Total asset asset Major Transaction- legal and Separation Adjusted
results amortisation impairment restructuring related other items costs results
31 December 2020 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 34,099 34,099
Cost of sales (11,704) 699 31 667 116 (10,191)
Gross profit 22,395 699 31 667 116 23,908
Selling, general and administration (11,456) 1 18 659 (23) 16 68 (10,717)
Research and development (5,098) 75 214 206 (4,603)
Royalty income 318 318
Other operating (expense)/income 1,624 1,215 (2,839) –
Operating profit 7,783 775 263 1,532 1,308 (2,823) 68 8,906
Net finance costs (848) 2 2 (844)
Share of after-tax profits of associates and joint ventures 33 33
Profit before taxation 6,968 775 263 1,534 1,308 (2,821) 68 8,095
Taxation (580) (150) (47) (292) (229) 17 (14) (1,295)
Tax rate 8.3% 16.0%
Profit after taxation 6,388 625 216 1,242 1,079 (2,804) 54 6,800
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 639 392 1,031
Profit attributable to shareholders 5,749 625 216 1,242 687 (2,804) 54 5,769
Earnings per share 115.5p 12.6p 4.4p 25.0p 13.8p (56.5)p 1.1p 115.9p
Weighted average number of shares (millions) 4,976 4,976
Divestments,
Intangible Intangible significant
Adjusted results reconciliation Total asset asset Major Transaction- legal and Adjusted
results amortisation impairment restructuring related other items results
31 December 2019 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 33,754 33,754
Cost of sales (11,863) 713 30 658 383 (10,079)
Gross profit 21,891 713 30 658 383 23,675
Selling, general and administration (11,402) 4 332 104 247 (10,715)
Research and development (4,568) 64 49 114 2 (4,339)
Royalty income 351 351
Other operating (expense)/income 689 1 (142) (548) –
Operating profit 6,961 777 83 1,105 345 (299) 8,972
Net finance costs (814) 5 (1) (810)
Share of after-tax profits of associates and joint ventures 74 74
Profit before taxation 6,221 777 83 1,110 345 (300) 8,236
Taxation (953) (156) (17) (208) (124) 140 (1,318)
Tax rate 15.3% 16.0%
Profit after taxation 5,268 621 66 902 221 (160) 6,918
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 623 164 787
Profit attributable to shareholders 4,645 621 66 902 57 (160) 6,131
Earnings per share 93.9p 12.6p 1.3p 18.2p 1.2p (3.3)p 123.9p
Weighted average number of shares (millions) 4,947 4,947
252 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Financial record continued
Five year record continued
Divestments,
Intangible Intangible significant
Adjusted results reconciliation Total asset asset Major Transaction- legal and Adjusted
results amortisation impairment restructuring related other items results
31 December 2018 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 30,821 30,821
Cost of sales (10,241) 536 69 443 15 (9,178)
Gross profit 20,580 536 69 443 15 21,643
Selling, general and administration (9,915) 2 315 98 38 (9,462)
Research and development (3,893) 44 45 49 20 (3,735)
Royalty income 299 299
Other operating (expense)/income (1,588) 2 1,864 (278) –
Operating profit 5,483 580 116 809 1,977 (220) 8,745
Net finance costs (717) 4 (3) 18 (698)
Profit on disposal of associates 3 (3) –
Share of after-tax profits of associates and joint ventures 31 31
Profit before taxation 4,800 580 116 813 1,974 (205) 8,078
Taxation (754) (109) (19) (170) (239) (244) (1,535)
Tax rate 15.7% 19.0%
Profit after taxation 4,046 471 97 643 1,735 (449) 6,543
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 423 251 674
Profit attributable to shareholders 3,623 471 97 643 1,484 (449) 5,869
Earnings per share 73.7p 9.6p 2.0p 13.1p 30.2p (9.2)p 119.4p
Weighted average number of shares (millions) 4,914 4,914
Divestments,
Intangible Intangible significant
Adjusted results reconciliation Total asset asset Major Transaction- legal and US tax Adjusted
results amortisation impairment restructuring related other items reform results
31 December 2017 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 30,186 30,186
Cost of sales (10,342) 546 400 545 80 (8,771)
Gross profit 19,844 546 400 545 80 21,415
Selling, general and administration (9,672) 248 83 (9,341)
Research and development (4,476) 45 288 263 18 (3,862)
Royalty income 356 356
Other operating (expense)/income (1,965) 1,519 (220) 666 –
Operating profit 4,087 591 688 1,056 1,599 (119) 666 8,568
Net finance costs (669) 4 8 (657)
Profit on disposal of associates 94 (94) –
Share of after-tax profits of associates
and joint ventures 13 13
Profit before taxation 3,525 591 688 1,060 1,599 (205) 666 7,924
Taxation (1,356) (134) (176) (209) (619) (251) 1,078 (1,667)
Tax rate 38.5% 21.0%
Profit after taxation 2,169 457 512 851 980 (456) 1,744 6,257
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 637 42 114 793
Profit attributable to shareholders 1,532 457 512 851 938 (456) 1,630 5,464
Earnings per share 31.4p 9.4p 10.5p 17.4p 19.2p (9.4)p 33.3p 111.8p
Weighted average number of shares (millions) 4,886 4,886
GSK Annual Report 2020 253Financial record continued
Five year record continued
Divestments,
Intangible Intangible significant
Adjusted results reconciliation Total asset asset Major Transaction- legal and Adjusted
results amortisation impairment restructuring related other items results
31 December 2016 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 27,889 27,889
Cost of sales (9,290) 547 7 297 86 2 (8,351)
Gross profit 18,599 547 7 297 86 2 19,538
Selling, general and administration (9,366) 514 55 (8,797)
Research and development (3,628) 41 13 159 (81) 28 (3,468)
Royalty income 398 398
Other operating (expense)/income (3,405) 3,914 (509) –
Operating profit 2,598 588 20 970 3,919 (424) 7,671
Net finance costs (664) 4 8 (652)
Share of after-tax profits of associates and joint ventures 5 5
Profit before taxation 1,939 588 20 974 3,919 (416) 7,024
Taxation (877) (130) (5) (217) (439) 170 (1,498)
Tax rate 45.2% 21.3%
Profit after taxation 1,062 458 15 757 3,480 (246) 5,526
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 150 487 637
Profit attributable to shareholders 912 458 15 757 2,993 (246) 4,889
Earnings per share 18.8p 9.4p 0.3p 15.6p 61.6p (5.1)p 100.6p
Weighted average number of shares (millions) 4,860 4,860
254 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Pipeline, products and competition
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines product development pipeline
Key † I n-license or other alliance relationship with third party, NDA New Drug Application (US)
with the exception of rituximab owned by Biogen MA Inc A Approved
^ V iiV Healthcare, a global specialist HIV company with S Submitted
GSK, Pfizer, Inc. and Shionogi Limited as shareholders, Phase I E valuation of clinical pharmacology, usually conducted
is responsible for developing and delivering HIV medicines. in volunteers
* G SK is contributing pandemic adjuvant to COVID-19 Phase II D etermination of dose and initial evaluation of efficacy,
vaccines collaborations conducted in a small number of patients
BLA Biological Licence Application Phase III L arge comparative study (compound versus placebo
MAA Marketing Authorisation Application (Europe) and/or established treatment) in patients to establish
clinical benefit and safety
MAA and NDA/BLA regulatory review milestones shown in the table below are those that have been achieved. Future filing dates are not included in this list.
For Oncology assets, only US/EU regulatory approvals/submissions and most advanced indication in the clinic are listed.
Achieved regulatory
review milestones
Compound Mechanism of Action Indication Phase MAA NDA/BLA
Oncology
Zejula Poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) 1/2 inhibitor 1L maintenance ovarian cancer Approved A: Oct20 A: Apr20
(niraparib)† (PRIMA)
1L maintenance ovarian cancer in III
combination with dostarlimab
1L maintenance non small cell lung cancer III
(NSCLC)
Blenrep ADC targeting B-cell maturation antigen 4L+ multiple myeloma Approved A: Aug20 A: Aug20
belantamab (DREAMM2)
mafodotin† 3L+ multiple myeloma III
2L+ multiple myeloma III
dostarlimab† Anti-Programmed Cell Death protein 1 receptor 2L dMMR/MSI-H endometrial cancer Submitted S: Mar20 S: Dec19
(PD-1) antibody 2L dMMR solid tumours Submitted S: Dec20
1L endometrial cancer III
feladilimab ICOS receptor agonist without cell depletion 1L relapsed/metastatic head and neck II/III
(3359609)† squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC)
bintrafusp alfa Transforming growth factor beta (TGFβ) trap and 1L biliary tract cancer (BTC) II/III
(M7824)† immune checkpoint (PD-1) inhibitor
letetresgene- Engineered TCR T-cells targeting NY-ESO-1 Synovial sarcoma II
autoleucel (pivotal)
(3377794)†
cobolimab Anti-T-cell immunoglobulin and mucin domain-3 Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) II
(TSR-022)† (TIM-3) antibody
3326595† Protein arginine methyltransferase 5 (PRMT5) Solid tumours and haematological malignancies I/II
inhibitor
4074386 Anti-lymphocyte activation gene-3 (LAG-3) Cancer I
(TSR-033)† antibody
3368715† Type I protein arginine methyltransferase Cancer I
(Type I PRMT) inhibitor
3745417 STING cytosolic DNA pathway agonist Cancer I
6097608† CD96 antagonist Cancer I
3901961† Engineered TCR T-cells, co-expressing the CD8a Cancer I
cell surface receptor, targeting NY-ESO-1
3845097† Engineered TCR T-cells, co-expressing the Cancer I
dnTGF-βRII cell surface receptor, targeting
NY-ESO-1
HIV^ and Infectious Diseases
Rukobia HIV attachment inhibitor HIV infection Approved A: Feb21 A: Jul20
fostemasavir
Cabenuva/ HIV integrase strand transfer inhibitor + non- HIV infection Approved A: Dec20 A: Jan21
Vocabria nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI)
cabotegravir + (long-acting regimen)
rilpivirine†
cabotegravir HIV integrase strand transfer inhibitor (long-acting) HIV pre-exposure prophylaxis III
gepotidacin† triazaacenaphthylene bacterial type II topoisomerase uncomplicated urinary tract infection (uUTI) and III
inhibitor gonorrhea (GC)
GSK Annual Report 2020 255Pipeline, products and competition continued
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines product development pipeline continued
Achieved regulatory
review milestones
Compound Mechanism of Action Indication Phase MAA NDA/BLA
HIV^ and Infectious Diseases continued
4182136 (VIR-7831)† anti-spike protein Antibody COVID-19 II/III
3036656† Leucyl t-RNA synthetase inhibitor Tuberculosis II
3228836† HBV antisense Hepatitis B II
3640254 HIV maturation inhibitor HIV infection II
3186899† CRK-12 inhibitor Visceral leishmaniasis I
3810109† HIV attachment inhibitor HIV infection I
3739937 HIV maturation inhibitor HIV infection I
3882347† FimH antagonist uncomplicated urinary tract infection (uUTI) I
3494245† Proteasome inhibitor Visceral leishmaniasis I
2556286† Mtb cholesterol dependent inhibitor Tuberculosis I
3729098† Ethionamide booster Tuberculosis I
4182137 (VIR-7832)† anti-spike protein Antibody COVID-19 I
Immuno-inflammation
Benlysta B lymphocyte stimulator monoclonal Lupus Nephritis Approved S: Jun20 A: Dec20
antibody (US)
Submitted
(EU)
Benlysta + rituximab† B lymphocyte stimulator monoclonal Systemic Lupus Erythematosus III
antibody + cluster of differentiation 20
(CD20) monoclonal antibody
otilimab (3196165)† Granulocyte macrophage colony- Rheumatoid arthritis III
stimulating factor inhibitor COVID-19 related acute pulmonary disease II
3858279† CCL17 inhibitor Osteoarthritis pain I
2982772 RIP1 kinase inhibitor Psoriasis I
Respiratory
Trelegy (fluticasone Glucocorticoid agonist + long-acting Asthma Approved S: Jan20 A: Sep20
furoate + vilanterol† + beta2 agonist + muscarinic (US)
umeclidinium) acetylcholine antagonist Submitted
(EU)
Nucala Interleukin 5 (IL5) antagonist Hypereosinophilic syndrome Approved S:Oct20 A:Sep20
(US)/
Submitted
(EU)
Nasal polyposis Submitted S:Oct20 S:Sep20
(US/EU)
COPD III
3511294† Interleukin 5 (IL5) antagonist Asthma III
(long-acting)
3923868 PI4K beta inhibitor Viral COPD exacerbations I
Other Pharmaceuticals
daprodustat Prolyl hydroxylase inhibitor Anaemia associated with chronic renal disease JNDA JNDA:
Approved Jun20
III (RoW)
linerixibat Ileal bile acid transporter (IBAT) inhibitor Cholestatic pruritus in PBC (primary biliary cholangitis) II
3439171† Hematopoietic prostaglandin D2 Duchenne muscular dystrophy I
synthase (H-PGDS) inhibitor
2798745† TRPV4 channel blocker Diabetic macular edema (DME) I
3915393† Transglutaminase 2 (TG2) inhibitor Celiac disease I
256 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Pipeline, products and competition continued
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines product development pipeline continued
Achieved regulatory
review milestones
Compound Vaccine Type Indication Phase MAA NDA/BLA
Vaccines
Shingrix† Recombinant protein – adjuvanted Herpes Zoster prophylaxis for immunocompromised Approved A: Jul 20 S: Sep 20
(EU)
Submitted
(US)
Rotarix Live attenuated, PCV (Porcine circovirus) Rotavirus prophylaxis Approved A: Feb 20
free in EU
(Variation)
III (US)
Bexsero Recombinant protein Meningococcal B disease prophylaxis in infants (US) III
MMR Live attenuated Measles, mumps, rubella prophylaxis (US) III
Men ABCWY Recombinant protein – conjugated Meningococcal A,B,C,W, Y disease prophylaxis in III
adolescents
RSV Recombinant protein Respiratory syncytial virus prophylaxis in pregnant III
woman population to prevent respiratory syncytial virus
lower respiratory tract illness in infants during first
months of life by transfer of maternal antibodies†
Recombinant protein – adjuvanted Respiratory syncytial virus prophylaxis in older adult III
population†
Replication-defective recombinant Respiratory syncytial virus prophylaxis in paediatric II
viral vector population
Malaria next Recombinant protein – adjuvanted Malaria prophylaxis (Plasmodium falciparum) II
generation†
(fractional dose)
Menveo Conjugated – Liquid formulation Meningococcal A,C,W, Y disease prophylaxis in II
adolescents
Shigella† Bioconjugated (tetravalent) Shigella diarrhoea prophylaxis II
Therapeutic HBV† Prime-boost with viral vector vaccines Treatment of chronic Hepatitis B infections – aims at I/II
co- or sequentially administrated with functional cure by controlling and resolving the infection
adjuvanted recombinant proteins and reducing the need for further treatment
C. Difficile† Recombinant protein – adjuvanted Active immunization for the prevention of the primary I
C. Difficile diseases and for prevention of recurrences
SAM (Rabies model) Self-Amplifying mRNA Rabies prophylaxis I
S. aureus† Recombinant protein – bioconjugated – Active immunization for the prevention of primary I
adjuvanted and recurrent Soft-Skin-Tissue Infections caused by
S. aureus
COVID-19 Recombinant protein – adjuvanted COVID-19 II/III
plant-derived
virus-like particles
vaccine (Medicago)†*
COVID-19 vaccine Recombinant protein – adjuvanted COVID-19 II
(Sanofi)†*
COVID-19 vaccine Recombinant protein nanoparticle – COVID-19 I/II
(SK Bioscience)†* adjuvanted
SAM (COVID-19 Self-Amplifying mRNA COVID-19 I
model)
GSK Annual Report 2020 257Pipeline, products and competition continued
Pharmaceutical products, competition and intellectual property
Major Patent expiry dates2
Products Compounds Indication(s) competitor brands US EU
Respiratory
Anoro Ellipta umeclidinium bromide/ COPD Stiolto Respimat, 2027 2029
vilanterol trifenatate Utibron/Ultibro (NCE) (NCE)
Breezhaler, 2027-2030 2022-2026
Duaklir Genuair (device/ (device/
Bevespi Aerosphere, formulation) formulation)
Brimica Genuair
Arnuity Ellipta fluticasone furoate asthma Beclazone, Pulmicort, 2021 2023
Budesonide Gx, (NCE) (NCE)
Asmanex, Alvesco 2027-2030 2022-2026
(device/ (device/
formulation) formulation)
Avamys/Veramyst fluticasone furoate rhinitis Dymista, Xhance, Nasonex, 20211 2023
Fluticasone Gx
Flixotide/Flovent fluticasone propionate asthma/COPD Beclazone, Pulmicort, expired expired
Budesonide Gx, (Diskus device) (Diskus device)
Asmanex, Alvesco 2023-2026 expired
(HFA-device) (HFA-device)
Incruse Ellipta umeclidinium bromide COPD Spiriva Handihaler/ 2027 2029
Respimat, Yupelri, (NCE) (NCE)
Braltus, Seebri 2027-2030 2022-2026
Breezhaler, Bretaris (device/ (device/
Genuair formulation) formulation)
Nucala mepolizumab severe eosinophilic asthma, EGPA Xolair, Cinqair, expired3 expired3
hypereosinophilic syndrome Fasenra, Dupixent
Relvar/Breo Ellipta fluticasone furoate/ asthma/COPD Symbicort, Foster, 2025 2027
vilanterol trifenatate Budesonide/Formetrol Gx (NCE) (NCE)
Sirdupla, Dulera 2027-2030 2022-2026
(device/ (device/
formulation) formulation)
Seretide/Advair salmeterol xinafoate/ asthma/COPD Symbicort, Foster, expired expired
fluticasone propionate Budesonide/Formetrol Gx (Diskus device) (Diskus device)
Sirdupla, Dulera 2023-2026 expired
(HFA-device) (HFA-device)
Trelegy Ellipta fluticasone furoate/ COPD Trimbow, 2027 2029
vilanterol trifenatate Breztri Aerosphere, (NCE) (NCE)
umeclidinium bromide Trixeo Aerosphere, 2027-2030 2022-2026
Enerzair Breezhaler (device/ (device/
formulation) formulation)
Ventolin HFA albuterol sulphate asthma/COPD generic companies 2023-2026 expired
(HFA-device) (HFA-device)
Anti-virals
Valtrex valaciclovir genital herpes, coldsores, shingles Prevymis, Valacyclovir Gx, expired expired
Valcyte
Central nervous system
Lamictal lamotrigine epilepsy, bipolar disorder Vimpat, Trokendi XR, expired expired
Inovelon
Imigran/Imitrex sumatriptan migraine Zomig, Maxalt, Relpax expired expired
Seroxat/Paxil paroxetine depression, various anxiety Trintellix, Aplenzin Viibryd, expired expired
disorders Zoloft
Cardiovascular and urogenital
Avodart dutasteride benign prostatic hyperplasia Harnal, Vesomni, Urorec expired expired
Anti-bacterials
Augmentin amoxicillin/clavulanate common bacterial generic products NA expired
potassium infections
1 Generic competition commenced in 2017.
2 Includes Supplementary Protection Certificates which were granted in multiple countries in EU and patent term extensions granted in the US.
3 Data exclusivity expires 2025 (EU) and 2027 (US).
258 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Pipeline, products and competition continued
Pharmaceutical products, competition and intellectual property continued
Major Patent expiry dates2
Products Compounds Indication(s) competitor brands US EU
Oncology
Zejula niraparib ovarian cancer Lynparza, Rubraca 2030 2028
(NCE) (NCE)
Blenrep belantamab mafodotin relapsed/refractory multiple Sarclisa, Xpovio 2032 2032
myeloma
Immuno-inflammation
Benlysta, Benlysta belimumab systemic lupus erythematosus, Lupkynis 2025 2026
(SC and IV) lupus nephritis
HIV
Juluca dolutegravir, rilpivirine HIV/AIDS Descovy, Genvoya, 2027 2029
Odefsey, Biktarvy (NCE) (NCE)
Dovato dolutegravir, lamivudine HIV/AIDS Descovy, Genvoya, 2027 2029
Odefsey, Biktarvy (NCE) (NCE)
Selzentry/Celsentri maraviroc HIV/AIDS Isentress, Intelence, 2022 2023
Prezista (NCE) (NCE)
Tivicay dolutegravir HIV/AIDS Isentress, Prezista 20271 2029
Symtuza, Reyataz, (NCE) (NCE)
Biktarvy
Triumeq dolutegravir, lamivudine HIV/AIDS Descovy, Genvoya 2027 2029
and abacavir Odefsey, Biktarvy (NCE) (NCE)
Vaccine products, competition and intellectual property
Major Patent expiry dates2
Products Compounds Indication(s) competitor brands US EU
Bexsero meningococcal group-B Meningitis group B prevention Trumenba 2027 2028
vaccine
Boostrix diphtheria, tetanus, acellular diphtheria, tetanus, acellular Adacel expired expired
pertussis Pertussis booster vaccination
Infanrix Hexa/Pediarix diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, Prophylaxis against diphtheria, Pentacel, Pediacel, expired expired
polio, hepatitis B, Haemophilus tetanus, pertussis, polio, Pentaxim, Pentavac,
influenzae type B (EU) hepatitis B, Haemophilus Hexaxim, Hexyon
influenzae type B (EU) Vaxelis
Cervarix HPV 16 & 18 virus like human papilloma virus Gardasil (Silgard) 2028 2022
particles (VLPs), AS04 type 16 and 18
adjuvant (MPL + aluminium
hydroxide)
Fluarix Tetra split inactivated influenza seasonal influenza prophylaxis Intenza, Flumist QIV, 2022 2022
antigens (2 virus subtypes A Vaxigrip QIV,
and 2 subtype B) Fluzone QIV,
Fluzone High Dose
FluLaval split inactivated influenza seasonal influenza prophylaxis Vaxigrip, Mutagrip, 2022 2022
antigens (2 virus subtypes A Fluzone, Influvac,
and 2 subtype B) Aggripal, Fluad,
Intenza, Flumist
Menveo meningococcal group A, C, W- Meningitis group A, C, W-135 Nimenrix, Menactra 2025 2025
135 and Y conjugate vaccine and Y prophylaxis
Prepandrix derived split inactivated pandemic H5N1 influenza Aflunov, Vepacel – 2026
influenza virus antigen, prophylaxis
AS03 adjuvant
Priorix, Priorix Tetraa,b live attenuated measles, mumps, measles, mumps, rubella and MMR II (M-M-RVaxPro) expired expired
Varilrixb rubella and varicella vaccine chickenpox prophylaxis Proquad, Varivax
Rotarix Human rotavirus RIX4414 strain Rotavirus prophylaxis Rotateq 2022 2026
Synflorix conjugated pneumococcal Prophylaxis against invasive Prevenar (Prevnar) NA 2026
polysaccharide disease, pneumonia,
acute otitis media
Shingrix zoster vaccine herpes zoster Zostavax 2026 2026
recombinant, adjuvanted (shingles)
1 See Note 46 to the financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’.
2 Includes Supplementary Protection Certificates which were granted in multiple countries in EU and patent term extensions granted in the US.
a Related compounds/indications are measles, mumps and rubella vaccine/prophylaxis
b Related compound is varicella vaccine
GSK Annual Report 2020 259Pipeline, products and competition continued
Consumer Healthcare products and competition
Brand Products Application Markets Competition
Oral health
Sensodyne, toothpastes, toothbrushes, relief of dentinal hypersensitivity. global Colgate Sensitive Pro-Relief,
Pronamel mouth rinse Pronamel additionally protects Colgate-Palmolive
against acid erosion Elmex, Colgate-Palmolive
Oral B, Procter & Gamble
parodontax/ toothpaste, daily/medicated helps stop and prevent global Colgate Total Gum Health,
Corsodyl mouthwash, gel and spray bleeding gums, treats and Colgate-Palmolive
prevents gingivitis Oral B Gum & Enamel Repair,
Crest Gum Detoxify, Procter & Gamble
Polident, denture adhesive, denture improve retention and comfort global Fixodent and Kukident,
Poligrip, cleanser, wipes of dentures, cleans dentures Procter & Gamble,
Corega Steradent, Reckitt Benckiser
Aquafresh toothpastes, toothbrushes aids prevention of dental cavities, global Colgate, Colgate-Palmolive
mouthwashes maintains healthy teeth, gums Crest, Procter & Gamble
and fresh breath Oral-B, Procter & Gamble
Pain relief
Panadol and tablets, caplets, infant paracetamol-based treatment for global (except US) Aspirin, Bayer
Panadol Cold syrup headache, joint pain, fever, cold Tylenol, Johnson & Johnson
& Flu symptoms Nurofen, Reckitt Benckiser
Voltaren topical gel non-steroidal, diclofenac based global Salonpas, Hisamitsu
anti-inflammatory Aspirin, Bayer
Tylenol, Johnson & Johnson
Nurofen, Reckitt Benckiser
Advil tablets, caplets, gel caplets, ibuprofen based treatment for US, Canada, Brazil, Tylenol, Tylenol PM, Tylenol Children’s
non-respiratory liquid filled suspension, headache, toothache, backache, Colombia, Mexico Motrin, Motrin Children’s, Johnson &
range drops (children’s) menstrual cramps, muscular Johnson Aleve, Aleve PM, Bayer
pains, minor pain of arthritis
Vitamins, minerals and supplements
Centrum tablets, gummies, vitamin supplement global Nutralite, Infinitus Cheong-Kwan-Jung,
capsules, chewables By-Health, Nature Made, Herbalife, Swisse
Caltrate tablets, gummies, calcium supplement global Citracal, Bayer, OS-Cal, Nature Made and
soft chews private label
Emergen-C powder, gummies immune support dietary US, Canada Airborne, Reckitt Benckiser
supplement Zicam, Church & Dwight
Nature made, Pharmavite
Sambucol, Healthcare Brands International
Ester-C, American Health
Respiratory health
Otrivin nasal spray nasal decongestant Germany, Netherlands, Afrin, Bayer, Nasivin, Proctor & Gamble,
Norway, Russia, Sweden Tyzine, Johnson & Johnson
Theraflu hot liquids, tablets, syrups cold and flu relief Russia, Poland, US Tylenol Cold & Flu, Johnson & Johnson
Mucinex, Reckitt Benckiser
Lemsip, Reckitt Benckiser
Advil Respiratory tablets allergy relief and cold & flu Tylenol Cold & Flu, Johnson & Johnson,
Cold and Flu, Advil relief Lemsip, Mucinex, Reckit Benckiser
Respiratory Allergy
Flixonase/Flonase nasal spray, tablets allergy relief US, China, UK, Ireland Claritin, Bayer, Allegra, Sanofi
Piriton Zyrtec, Johnson & Johnson
Robitussin syrup, tablets cough/cold US, Canada, Singapore, Mucinex, Reckitt Benckiser
Philippines, Australia Dimetapp, Foundation Consumer
Healthcare
Digestive health and other
Zovirax topical cream and lip care to treat and prevent global Compeed, Johnson & Johnson
Abreva non-medicated patch the onset of cold sores Carmex, Carma Labs
Blistex, Blistex Incorporated
retail own label
ChapStick lip balm protect, moisturise, prevent and global Blistex, Burt’s Bees, Carmex, Carma Labs,
soothe chapped lips EOS, Nivea, Beiersdorf, Vaseline, Unilever
ENO effervescent immediate relief antacid global (except US) Estomazil, Hypermarca, Gelusil
Tums chewable tablets immediate relief antacid US Alka-Seltzer, Bayer
Gaviscon, Reckitt Benckiser
Rolaids, Sanofi
Nicorette (US), lozenges, gum and treatment of nicotine withdrawal global Nicorette, Johnson & Johnson
NicoDerm, Nicotinell trans-dermal patches as an aid to smoking reduction NiQuitin, Perrigo
(ex. Australia) and cessation
260 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Principal risks and uncertainties
We outline below the principal risks and uncertainties relevant manufacturing, testing, approval, distribution, sales and
to GSK’s business, financial condition and operations that may marketing of pharmaceutical, vaccine and consumer healthcare
affect our performance and ability to achieve our objectives. products. These affect the cost of product development, the
These are the risks that we believe could cause our actual time required to reach the market and the likelihood of doing
results to differ materially from expected and historical results. so successfully on an uninterrupted basis.
In 2020 Board oversight was extended beyond the Audit & Risk As rules and regulations change, government interpretation
Committee, to include more involvement from the Corporate evolves, and our business activities develop, the nature of a
Responsibility Committee and Science Committee. These particular risk may also alter. Changes to certain regulatory
committees considered GSK’s risks and the strategies used to regimes may be substantial. Any alteration in, and failure to
address them. In doing so they drew on annual business unit comply with, applicable laws and regulations could materially
risk and assurance update reports, strategy papers for our most and adversely affect our financial results.
significant risks, and the Corporate Executive Team’s (CET’s)
Similarly, our global business exposes us to litigation and
annual risk review.
government investigations, including but not limited to product
During the year we further developed our risk management liability litigation, patent and antitrust litigation and sales and
framework, moving from annual to quarterly upwards reporting marketing litigation. Litigation and government investigations,
for most of our principal risks. This has enabled the Risk including related provisions we may make for unfavourable
Oversight and Compliance Council to oversee risk in a more outcomes and increases in related costs such as insurance
dynamic way. We continued to evolve how we report new and premiums, could also materially and adversely affect our
emerging risks and external environmental insights. We also financial results.
made reporting more data driven, with key risk indicators
More detail on the status and various uncertainties in our
enabling more agile risk management strategies. In addition,
significant unresolved disputes and potential litigation is set
risks and mitigations relating to COVID-19 were incorporated
out in Note 46 ‘Legal proceedings’.
within our most significant risks, to complement the pandemic
risks identified and managed by the Global Issues Management UK regulations require a discussion of the mitigation activities
Team and reported to the CET. a company takes to address principal risks and uncertainties.
Below is a description of each of our principal risks with a
We are required to comply with a broad range of laws and
summary of the activities that we take to manage each risk across
regulations which apply to the research and development,
our businesses. They are not listed in order of significance.
Patient safety
Risk definition We collect information on the safety and efficacy of our
Failure to appropriately collect, review, follow up, or report products in humans during clinical development and gain more
human safety information (HSI), including adverse events from comprehensive information on real-world use once our products
all potential sources, and to act on any relevant findings in a are on the market. Safety information is not only obtained by our
timely manner. own ongoing safety surveillance activities; external parties also
analyse publicly-available clinical trial results or other data.
Risk impact
The variety of sources and the increasing volume of safety
Our ability to effectively collect, manage and analyse safety
data in the setting of variable and complex global regulations
information associated with our products enables us to conduct
present new and evolving challenges to how we conduct
robust safety signal detection activities. This, in turn, ensures
pharmacovigilance. For example, we must collect sensitive
we make decisions based on the most up-to-date risk/benefit
health information to develop robust product safety profiles
profile of our products and take all appropriate measures to
while ensuring adherence to increasingly stringent global
safeguard patients and consumers. If we do not effectively
privacy regulations and remaining vigilant to the threat of
manage risks to our patient safety activities, the most serious
cyberattacks.
repercussion could be harm to patients. This could also lead to
reputational damage, product-related litigation, governmental As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, GSK’s Safety
investigation and regulatory action, including fines, penalties organisation and our third parties quickly and effectively
and even the loss of product marketing authorisation. adopted new ways of working which did not impact patient
safety. However, the urgent need for effective treatment and
Context
prevention of COVID-19, and the political discourse around
Our licence to operate depends on our compliance with global
developing such treatment and prevention, increased regulatory,
pharmacovigilance requirements. We are fully accountable for
governmental and public scrutiny on how our industry ensures,
safeguarding patients and complying with global regulations.
through development and regulatory measures, the safety and
However, we augment our pharmacovigilance capabilities by
efficacy of medicines and vaccines. This environment could
using third parties, and continue to seek innovative solutions
undermine regulatory, governmental and public trust in
(e.g., automation and machine learning) for improved patient
medicines for treating COVID-19. This may, in turn, negatively
safety management through more efficient, reliable and
influence healthcare decisions for other diseases, leading to
accurate data collection and interrogation.
reputational damage or product liability lawsuits.
GSK Annual Report 2020 261Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Patient safety continued
Mitigating activities Proposed actions are discussed with regulatory authorities
Our Chief Medical Officer (CMO) is accountable for the Patient and can include updating the prescribing information,
Safety enterprise risk and human safety matters, in collaboration communicating with healthcare providers, restricting product
with the Head of Global Safety and with support from business prescribing/availability to help assure safe use, and carrying out
unit-specific CMOs. A cross-enterprise safety governance further clinical trials. In certain cases, it may be appropriate to
board oversees implementation of our control framework, stop clinical trials or to withdraw a product from the market.
including risk management. A Global Safety Board and
In 2020 we embedded changes to our central and local safety
subsidiary business unit-specific product safety boards ensure
departments, with increased support for core pharmacovigilance
that human safety is addressed proactively throughout a
activities from third-party vendors. Our operating model was
product’s lifecycle.
tested by the pandemic and, while areas for improvement were
Our global policy on management of human safety information identified in terms of vendor flexibility and capacity, we adapted
requires that all employees immediately report issues relating to quickly and were at full operational capacity in the second half of
the safety of our products. Our Third-Party Oversight framework the year with no impact on patient safety. We are implementing a
ensures that third parties at risk of encountering human safety new safety signal management tool, have leveraged automation
information are identified and trained appropriately. where possible for case processing, and are preparing for the
integration of the Pfizer Consumer Healthcare safety database.
Safety information for all products and from all sources is
In 2021 we will further refine the global Pharmacovigilance
collected, processed, reported, analysed and followed up in
organisation to deliver additional efficiencies, including a focus
compliance with global regulations. This information allows us to
on advancing innovation and automation.
detect safety signals for our products and take timely action on
information that changes a product’s risk/benefit profile.
Product quality
Risk definition GSK is increasingly using new technology to enhance the
Failure by GSK, its contractors or suppliers to ensure: manufacture and testing of our products, for example, we are
continuing to deploy new electronic documentation systems
– Appropriate controls and governance of quality in product
and advanced laboratory information management tools. The
development;
threat of cyberattacks remains a key risk to the integrity of
– Compliance with good manufacturing practice or good product quality data and its audit trail.
distribution practice regulations in commercial or clinical
Significant changes are taking place in GSK as we implement
trials manufacture and distribution activities;
our new organisational alignments and strategy. These changes
– Compliance with the terms of GSK product licences and are assessed by our quality organisations to make sure our
supporting regulatory activities. quality procedures and governance can facilitate the strategy,
Risk impact while also ensuring that no unintended consequences increase
A failure to ensure product quality could have far reaching our product quality risk.
implications in patient and consumer safety, product launch Mitigating activities
delays, drug shortages and product recalls, as well as having An extensive global network of quality and compliance
regulatory, legal and financial consequences. These could professionals, from site to senior management level, is aligned
materially and adversely affect GSK’s reputation and financial with each business unit to provide oversight and assist with the
results. delivery of quality performance and operational compliance.
Context Such management oversight is accomplished through a
The external environment for product quality remains hierarchy of quality councils, an independent chief product
challenging. quality officer and a global product quality office that oversee
product quality risk across the company.
The European Medicines Agency (EMA) is about to implement
two new sets of requirements. In May 2021, EMA regulations We have developed and implemented a single quality
covering the licensing of medical devices will become effective. management system that defines the quality standards and
The new Annex 1 Guidance for the Manufacture of Sterile systems for our businesses associated with pharmaceutical,
Medicinal Products is also due for release. GSK is preparing to vaccine and consumer healthcare products, and for clinical trial
implement both sets of requirements. materials. This system has a broad scope and is applicable
throughout the product lifecycle, from R&D to mature
We are reviewing the manufacturing processes for all products
commercial supply. It is augmented by a consolidation of
to identify the risks for the presence of nitrosamine impurities,
numerous regulatory requirements from markets across the
to comply with updated regulatory requirements. This work will
world, which assures it meets external expectations for product
continue through 2021. Where necessary we will mitigate any
quality in the markets we supply. Our system is based on the
identified risks.
internationally-recognised principles from the ICH Q10
pharmaceutical quality system framework.
262 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Product quality continued
Our quality management system is routinely updated to ensure Product incident committee processes are in place to
it keeps pace with the evolving external regulatory environment investigate product issues and make recommendations on
and new scientific understanding of our products and remediation activities including, where necessary, the recall of
processes. As part of our drive to continually improve the products to protect patients and consumers. An established
operational deployment of our quality management system, we complaint process also ensures GSK responds appropriately
are making our policies and procedures simpler to understand to product quality issues raised by patients and customers.
and implement and adopting innovative tools to give a more
Independent functions review and triage allegations of non-
user-friendly experience. Staff members are regularly trained
compliance or misconduct received through formal and informal
in regulatory expectations and learnings from inspections and
‘Speak Up’ channels. Global disciplinary and enforcement
existing procedures to ensure continued maintenance of
procedures apply to any breaches of our standards, and are
Current Good Manufacturing Practice standards.
initiated, as appropriate, following investigations.
We have implemented a risk-based approach to assessing and
We leverage key risk indicators to support risk management
managing third party suppliers that provide materials used in our
activities and provide GSK’s Corporate Executive Team and
finished products. Contract manufacturers that make our
Risk Oversight and Compliance Council with an integrated
products are expected to comply with GSK standards and are
assessment of product quality performance.
regularly audited to provide assurance that they do.
Financial controls and reporting
Risk definition Our Treasury group deals daily in high value transactions, mostly
Failure to comply with current tax laws or incurring significant foreign exchange and cash management transactions. These
losses due to treasury activities; failure to report accurate transactions involve market volatility and counterparty risk.
financial information in compliance with accounting standards
The Group’s effective tax rate reflects the locations of our
and applicable legislation.
activities and the value they generate, which determine the
Risk impact jurisdictions in which profits arise and the applicable tax rates.
Non-compliance with existing or new financial reporting and These may be higher or lower than the UK statutory rate and
disclosure requirements, or changes to the recognition of income may reflect regimes that encourage innovation and investment
and expenses, could expose GSK to litigation and regulatory in R&D by providing tax incentives which, if changed, could
action and could materially and adversely affect our financial affect GSK’s tax rate. In addition, the worldwide nature of our
results. In the current global pandemic, there can be significant operations means that our cross-border supply routes,
changes at short notice. Failure to comply with changes in the necessary to ensure supplies of medicines into numerous
substance or application of the laws governing transfer pricing, countries, can result in conflicting claims from tax authorities as
dividends, tax credits and intellectual property could also to the profits to be taxed in individual countries. This can lead to
materially and adversely affect our financial results. double taxation, with profits taxed in more than one country.
The complexity of tax regulations also means that we may
Inconsistent application of treasury policies, transactional or
occasionally disagree with tax authorities on the technical
settlement errors, or counterparty defaults could lead to
interpretation of a particular area of tax law. The tax charge
significant losses.
included in our financial statements is our best estimate of tax
Context liability pending any audits by tax authorities.
We are required by the laws of various jurisdictions to publicly
We expect there to be a continued focus on tax reform, driven
disclose our financial results and events that could materially
by initiatives of the OECD and the EC to address the tax
affect the Group’s financial results. Regulators routinely review
challenges arising from digitalisation of the economy. Together
the financial statements of listed companies for compliance with
with domestic initiatives around the world, these may result
new, revised or existing accounting and regulatory requirements.
in significant changes to established tax principles and an
We believe that we comply with the appropriate regulatory
increase in tax authority disputes. Regardless of their merit
requirements concerning our financial statements and the
or outcomes, these may be costly, divert management attention
disclosure of material information, including any transactions
and adversely impact our reputation and relationship with key
relating to business restructuring such as acquisitions and
stakeholders.
divestitures. However, should we be subject to an investigation
into potential non-compliance with accounting and disclosure
requirements, this could lead to restatements of previously-
reported results and significant penalties.
GSK Annual Report 2020 263Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Financial controls and reporting continued
Mitigating activities Counterparty exposure is subject to defined limits approved by
Financial results are reviewed and approved by regional the Board for both credit rating and individual counterparties.
management, before being reviewed by GSK’s Group Financial A corporate compliance officer, operating independently of
Controller and Chief Financial Officer (CFO). This allows our Treasury, oversees Treasury’s role in managing counterparty
Financial Controller and CFO to assess the evolution of the risk in line with agreed policy. Further details on mitigation of
business over time, and to evaluate its performance to plan. Treasury risks can be found on pages 214 to 217, Note 43
Significant judgements are reviewed and confirmed by senior ‘Financial instruments and related disclosures’.
management. Technical or organisational transformation, newly
GSK manages tax risk through robust internal policies,
acquired activities and external risks, such as the COVID-19
processes, training and compliance programmes. We seek to
pandemic, are integrated into risk assessments and appropriate
maintain open and constructive relationships with tax authorities
controls and reviews are applied.
worldwide. We monitor government debate on tax policy in our
We maintain a control environment designed to identify material key jurisdictions so that we can understand and share an
errors in financial reporting and disclosure. The design and informed point of view regarding any potential future changes in
operating effectiveness of key financial reporting controls are tax law. Where relevant, we provide pragmatic and constructive
regularly reviewed by management and tested by external third business input to tax policy makers, either directly or through
parties. A minimum standard control set is in place for all industry trade bodies. This includes advocating reform to
finance locations, irrespective of size, which is reviewed by support economic growth and job creation, as well as the
management and monitored independently. This provides us needs of our patients and other key stakeholders. We submit
with the assurance that controls over key financial reporting and significant tax decisions to our Tax Governance Board which
disclosure processes have operated effectively. Our Global meets quarterly and is made up of senior GSK Finance
Finance Risk Management and Controls Centre of Excellence employees.
provides extra support during significant transformations,
Our tax affairs are managed on a global basis by a team of tax
such as system deployment or management/structural
professionals, led by the Global Head of Tax, who work closely
reorganisations. We also add operational resources to ensure
with the business on a day-to-day basis. The Global Tax team
processes and controls are maintained during such changes.
is suitably qualified for the roles they perform, and we support
We have introduced additional risk mitigation by amending the
their training needs so they can provide up to date technical
programme timelines of system upgrades to optimise delivery.
advice in line with their responsibilities.
The Disclosure Committee, reporting to the Board, reviews
We submit tax returns according to statutory time limits and
GSK’s quarterly results and annual report and, in consultation
engage proactively with tax authorities to seek to ensure our tax
with its legal advisors, throughout the year determines whether
affairs are current, entering into continuous audit programmes
it is necessary to disclose publicly information about the Group
and advance pricing agreements where appropriate. These
through stock exchange announcements. We keep up-to-date
arrangements provide long-term certainty for both tax
with the latest developments in financial reporting requirements
authorities and GSK over the tax treatment of our business,
by working with our external auditor and legal advisors.
based on full disclosure of all relevant facts. We seek to resolve
The Treasury management group meets regularly to seek to any differences of interpretation in tax legislation with tax
ensure that liquidity, interest rate, counterparty, foreign currency authorities in a cooperative manner. In exceptional cases, we
transaction and foreign currency translation risks are all may have to resolve disputes through formal proceedings.
managed in line with the conservative approach detailed in the
associated risk strategies and policies adopted by our Board.
264 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Anti-bribery and corruption (ABAC)
Risk definition We have appropriate controls in place around transactions
The ABAC risk comprises five sub-risk areas: and payments to third parties, such as training, awareness
raising and strong monitoring. We plan to continue with pre-
– Bribery of public officials by GSK;
and post-transaction ABAC due diligence, to increase the
– Bribery of commercial and other non-public entities by GSK; capabilities in the business on monitoring, oversight and red
– Bribery by third parties acting on behalf of GSK; flag resolution of third parties, and to review controls and
accountabilities of government officials. We continue to assess
– GSK employees receiving and/or requesting bribes and/or
and understand our money laundering risk exposure and
other undue personal benefit;
mitigate any existing risk.
– Other corruption-non-compliance with laws and regulations
Our Code of Conduct, values and expectations, and
related to money laundering or facilitation of tax evasion by
commitment to zero tolerance towards bribery and corruption
third parties/clients/partners.
are integral to how we mitigate this risk. In light of the complexity
Risk impact and geographic breadth of the risk, we constantly evolve our
Failure to mitigate this risk could expose the Group and oversight of activities and data; reinforce to our workforce
associated persons to governmental investigation, regulatory GSK’s clear expectations regarding acceptable behaviours;
action, and civil and criminal liability and may compromise the and maintain regular communications between the centre and
Group’s ability to supply its products under certain government local markets.
contracts. In addition, failure to prevent bribery or corruption
Our ABAC programme is built on best in class principles and is
could have substantial implications for GSK’s reputation and the
subject to ongoing review and development. It provides us with
credibility of senior leaders and might erode investor confidence
the basis from which we seek to manage the risk from both top
in our governance and risk management. It could also lead to
down and bottom up. For example, the programme comprises
legal and financial penalties.
top-level commitment from our Board and leadership, and a
Context data analytics programme to create and embed local key risk
The overall environment for ABAC remains challenging. indicators to enable targeted intervention and risk management
Countries are holding individuals, as well as corporations, activities.
accountable by increasing the employer duty of care.
The programme is underpinned by a global ABAC policy,
Divergence of legislation, increasing political protectionism,
and other written standards, that address commercial and
social inequality and pricing pressures are making compliance
other practices that give rise to ABAC risk. In addition, the
harder. Society is holding corporations to ever higher standards,
programme mandates enhanced controls over interactions
with technology providing a rapid and anonymous avenue for
with government officials and during business development
dissemination of previously confidential information and even
transactions. Controls in our ABAC policy establish due
for damaging false reports.
diligence requirements for the engagement of third parties.
Enforcement actions and penalties have increased across
We have a dedicated team responsible for the implementation
the globe with the focus on use of third-party intermediaries.
and evolution of the ABAC programme in response to
Proposed EU legislation would require businesses to carry
developments in the internal and external environment. The
out due diligence on potential human rights and related-
ABAC team continually works with other groups across the
environmental impacts of their operations and supply chains,
enterprise to address and improve controls and monitoring
imposing a legal standard of care. In addition, the impact of
requirements. The team’s work is complemented by
COVID-19 on businesses, including disruptions in
independent oversight and assurance from the Audit and
manufacturing, the supply chain, import/export and travel,
Assurance and independent business monitoring teams.
etc., could increase the risk of bribery and corruption.
Issues identified during oversight and assurance exercises,
Supportive aspects of the external environment include an and from investigations, are used to identify areas for specific
increase in transparency and collaboration among enforcement intervention in the markets and to continuously improve the
authorities with the aim of reducing bribery and corruption programme.
globally. Advances in technology are also providing better
We periodically provide mandatory ABAC training to employees
platforms to streamline processes and detect potential issues.
and relevant third parties in accordance with their roles and
Mitigating activities responsibilities and the risks they face.
We have an enterprise-wide ABAC programme designed to
We continually benchmark our ABAC programme against
ensure compliance with our ABAC policies and mitigate the risk
those of other large multinational companies and use external
of bribery and corruption. It builds on our business standards,
expertise and internal insights to drive improvements.
values and expectations to form a comprehensive and practical
approach to compliance that is flexible to the evolving nature of Formal and informal ‘Speak Up’ channels are available to report
our business. misconduct or non-compliance. Allegations of non-compliance
are reviewed and triaged by the central investigations team and
Programme governance is provided through enterprise risk
allocated for investigation as appropriate.
management overseen by GSK’s ABAC Governance Board
which includes representation from key functional areas.
GSK Annual Report 2020 265Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Commercial practices and pricing
Risk definition We are committed to the ethical and responsible
Failure to engage in commercial activities that are consistent commercialisation of our products in support of our purpose to
with the letter and spirit of the law, industry regulations, or improve the quality of human life by enabling people to do more,
the Group’s requirements relating to sales and promotion of feel better, and live longer. To accomplish this purpose, we
our medicines and vaccines; appropriate interactions with engage the healthcare community in various ways to provide
healthcare professionals/organisations and patients; legitimate important information about our medicines and vaccines.
and transparent transfers of value; and pricing and competition
By promoting our approved products, we seek to ensure that
(or antitrust) regulations in commercial practices, including
HCPs globally have access to the information they need, that
trade channel activities and tendering business.
patients and consumers have the facts and products they
Risk impact require, and that products are prescribed, recommended or
Failure to engage in commercial activities that are consistent used in a manner that provides maximum healthcare benefits.
with the letter and spirit of the law, industry regulations, or We are committed to communicating information related to our
the Group’s requirements relating to sales and promotion of approved products in a responsible, legal and ethical manner.
medicines and vaccines; with appropriate interactions with
Mitigating activities
healthcare professionals (HCPs), organisations and patients;
Our strategic objectives are designed to ensure we achieve our
with legitimate and transparent transfers of value; and with
purpose. We continue to strive for new product launches that
pricing and competition (or antitrust) regulations in commercial
are competitive and resourced effectively, and to ensure that a
practices, including trade channel activities and business
healthy proportion of Group sales come from new products or
tendering, could, materially and adversely affect our ability to
innovations.
deliver our strategy and long term priorities. Additionally, it may
result in incomplete awareness of the risk/benefit profile of our By establishing new products that meet the price expectations
products and possibly suboptimal treatment of patients and of patients, consumers, HCPs, payers, shareholders and the
consumers; governmental investigation, regulatory action and community we are able to maintain a strong global business and
legal proceedings brought against the Group by governmental remain relevant to the needs of patients and consumers. Our
and private plaintiffs which could result in government values and behaviours provide a guide for how we lead and
sanctions, and criminal and/or financial penalties. Any practices make decisions. We constantly strive to do the right thing and
that are found to be misaligned with our values could also result deliver quality products and sustain reliable supply to meet
in reputational harm and dilute trust established with external customer needs. In doing so, we seek to ensure our actions
stakeholders. reflect GSK’s values, behaviours and purpose.
Context GSK has acted to enhance and improve our policies and
We continue to evolve our business operations to operate standards, application of data analytics and our channel
globally in a highly regulated and extremely competitive activities. We have developed policies to support the strong
biopharma industry, where our peers may make significant growth of our Consumer Healthcare internet channels and digital
product innovations and technical advances and intensify price marketing activities, using artificial intelligence-powered tools to
competition. In the Consumer Healthcare marketplace, where improve the oversight of more than 700 GSK websites. We have
our partners are classic retail, pharmacies and, increasingly, also improved the control framework around reporting of adverse
online platforms, we face similarly robust competition. In this events in the digital space by upgrading our customer service.
challenging environment, to achieve our strategic objectives, We have policies and standards governing commercial activities
we must continue to develop commercially viable new products that we undertake or are carried out on our behalf. We have
and deliver additional uses for existing products that address implemented training of all relevant employees to support the
the needs of patients, consumers, HCPs and payers. evolution of our activities. All our commercial activities
In common with other pharmaceutical, vaccine and consumer worldwide must conform to high ethical, regulatory, and industry
healthcare companies we are embracing opportunities in an standards. Where local standards differ from global ones, we
evolving digital landscape while facing uncertain market apply those that are most stringent. Where the standards of an
conditions due to the global COVID-19 pandemic and acquired company or joint venture partner differ from our global
continued downward price pressure in major markets. standards, we will remediate legacy policies and implement
revisions so they align.
Developing new pharmaceutical, vaccine and consumer
healthcare products is a costly, lengthy and uncertain process. Our Consumer Healthcare business has harmonised policies
A candidate product may fail at any stage, including after the and procedures, to guide regional and global commercial
investment of significant economic and human resources. Our practice processes, and clarified applicable standards for
competitors’ products or pricing strategies, or our potential operations in the markets in which we operate. We are also
failure to develop commercially successful products or deliver reducing our number of export hubs from more than 20 to five,
additional uses for existing products, could materially and complemented by a specific control framework for their activity.
adversely affect our ability to achieve GSK’s strategic In China we have developed a specific promotion code, to
objectives. enable responsible business growth and employee behaviour. In
2020 we trained more than 1,800 employees in the new code.
266 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Commercial practices continued
GSK’s Pharmaceuticals, Consumer Healthcare and Vaccines targets. This approach, which has been implemented in more
businesses have adopted our internal control framework to than 30 markets, is supported by a comprehensive training,
support its assessment and management of risks. Business unit control, and monitoring framework to ensure full alignment with
risk management and compliance boards, that manage risks GSK’s values-based approach to HCP engagement.
across in-country business activities, oversee commercial
We allow fair market value payments to be made by GSK to
activities and their monitoring programmes. We continue to
expert practitioners to speak about our innovative medicines
improve the framework and culture of our compliance
and vaccines in most countries in North America, Europe and
processes.
Asia Pacific during a restricted time period in a product’s
All promotional materials and activities must be reviewed and lifecycle. Controls and training ensure appropriate oversight
approved according to our policies and standards and across markets. Where permitted we report payments to
conducted in accordance with local laws and regulations; these individual HCPs as part of our commitment to transparency and
requirements seek to ensure that such materials and activities responsible disclosure.
fairly represent the Group’s products or services. Consumer
Consumer Healthcare has been a key driver in the development
Healthcare has deployed a new copy approval tool to improve
of an ethical code for the Global Self-Care Federation, setting
controls over important promotional activity. Where necessary,
principles for promotion to healthcare practitioners and
in the event of misconduct, we have disciplined employees, up
pharmacy staff.
to and including termination of contract, and clawed back
remuneration from senior management. GSK is committed to complying with all applicable sanctions
laws and regulations and has deployed a programme to enable
We have continued to evolve our incentive programme for
management of sanctions risk. The programme, led by GSK
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines sales representatives to better
Finance, is made up of various systems and controls including,
recognise and reward individual effort. In specialty care, for
but not limited to, policies and procedures, training and
example, the capped variable pay element of representatives’
awareness, screening, monitoring and risk reporting.
compensation is evaluated on the basis of individual sales
Non-promotional engagement
Risk definition Context
Failure to engage in non-promotional activities that are Non-promotional engagements are diverse activities directed at
consistent with external regulations, internal policies, and healthcare professionals, as well as patients, payers and other
GSK values regarding scientific engagement with healthcare stakeholders. They aim to improve patient care through the
professionals and patients, including i) communications relating exchange or provision of knowledge on the use of GSK
to our medicines or associated disease areas; ii) appropriate medicines and vaccines and about related diseases. Non-
conduct of interactions; and iii) legitimacy and transparency of promotional engagement with external stakeholder groups is
those interactions. vital to GSK, as a research-based healthcare company, and
necessary for scientific and medical advances. We expect our
Risk impact
non-promotional activities to be scientifically sound and
Without controls in place, the risk could result in reputational
accurate, conducted ethically and transparently and compliant
damage, governmental or regulatory investigations (e.g.,
with applicable codes, laws and regulations. However, non-
regarding real, perceived or disguised promotion including
promotional engagements are largely unregulated. Therefore,
off-label and prior-authorisation promotion, and real or
measured risk taking, rooted in sound values, and principles-
perceived provision of medical advice), criminal investigations
based decision making, training, communication and monitoring
and penalties, civil litigation or competitor complaints affecting
are key to managing the risk and enabling full and appropriate
our financial results and reducing the trust of the general public,
engagement.
patients, healthcare professionals, payers, regulators and
governments. At the same time, failure to engage fully and
appropriately could also result in reputational damage, patient
harm and financial loss.
GSK Annual Report 2020 267Non-promotional engagement continued
Mitigating activities In 2020 COVID-19 resulted in a significant increase in virtual
Our Chief Medical Officer (CMO) oversees all non-promotional engagements (e.g., with external experts, advisory boards,
engagement as enterprise risk owner. patient advocacy, patient engagements and congresses). We
further modernized our practices and applied our internal
The GSK Code of Practice is the key internal policy for non-
principles and policies to this rapidly changing and growing
promotional engagement activities. These activities include,
environment. We are evolving our employee training so that our
among others, scientific interactions, support of medical and
people understand the risk associated with non-promotional
disease education, advice seeking, scientific communication of
activities, and conduct them in compliance with GSK’s values
our research, and disease awareness for the general public. In
and policies, local laws and regulations. This training must be
2020 we launched a revised Code of Practice supported by
extended to third parties who support non-promotional activities
revised Standard Operating Procedures, in order to become a
to ensure they also understand and comply with the risk
more agile and innovative organisation.
mitigation to ensure non-promotional activities are not, or
do not appear as, promotion. We continue to build effective
management monitoring systems and apply key risk indicators
for managing non-promotional engagement.
Privacy
Risk definition Mitigating activities
The failure to collect, secure, use and destroy Personal The Group’s Chief Compliance Officer is also the chair of our
Information (PI) in accordance with data privacy laws can lead Privacy Governance Board, which oversees GSK’s overall
to harm to individuals (e.g. financial, stress, prejudice) and GSK data privacy operating model. Each GSK business area has
(e.g. fines, operational, financial and reputational). appointed a risk owner accountable for overseeing its privacy
risks, who is supported by privacy leaders within their business.
Risk impact
In some countries data privacy laws require a data protection
Non-compliance with data privacy laws globally could lead to
officer (DPO) to be appointed. GSK has appointed a single
harm to individuals and GSK. It could also damage trust
DPO for the EU, who is represented and supported in specific
between GSK and individuals, communities, business partners
countries by country privacy advisors.
and government authorities.
Our Chief Compliance Officer is GSK’s enterprise risk owner
Many countries have increased the enforcement powers of
(ERO). The ERO has appointed a delegate risk owner, the
their data protection authorities by allowing them to impose
global privacy officer (GPO), who has day-to-day accountability
significant fines, impact cross-border data flows, or temporarily
for designing and implementing the control framework.
ban data processing. Many new country laws also give
The GPO co-leads the cross-functional Privacy Centre of
individuals the right to bring collective legal actions against
Excellence, together with the Global Privacy Counsel. They
companies like GSK for failure to comply with data privacy laws.
are supported by privacy officers, privacy counsel, and multiple
Context country privacy advisors (who are familiar with local privacy
Data privacy legislation is diverse with limited harmonisation or regulations).
simplification. It is challenging for multinationals to standardise
GSK has evolved the initial control framework implemented
their approach to compliance with data privacy laws.
for the EU General Data Protection Regulation into a
Governments are enforcing compliance with data privacy laws
comprehensive privacy control framework, based on global
more rigorously. The focus on the ethical use of personal
privacy principles common across the global privacy landscape.
information is growing, over and above compliance with data
This global framework has been deployed in countries exhibiting
privacy laws, due to an increase in the volume of data
a need for such a comprehensive framework, based on factors
processed and advances in technology.
like robust local privacy legislation, established data protection
Workforce protection and effective privacy controls for research authorities, and GSK footprint. Beyond those countries, we
during the COVID-19 pandemic are creating unique challenges. have started preparations to involve, resource and educate the
Additionally, new data privacy laws, enforcement activities and employees in remaining undeployed countries with a GSK
court decisions – like the Court of Justice of the European footprint.
Union ruling for Schrems II – are creating uncertainties for
Our Privacy Centre of Excellence is responsible for:
international data transfers and potential localisation
requirements. – operating and improving the centralised global privacy control
framework;
– continuously assessing and providing relevant and
proportionate controls and aid to non-deployed markets;
268 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
PPrriivvaaccyy ccoonnttiinnuueedd
– monitoring new, or changing, laws and adapting the privacy We continuously improve our processes, such as issue
framework accordingly; and identification, reporting and handling, through monitoring.
The Privacy Centre of Excellence is involved in new business
– deploying a comprehensive training programme to drive
development opportunities at an early stage to ensure
greater awareness and accountability for managing personal
appropriate due diligence is performed and the right steps
information across the entire organisation.
are taken when onboarding or splitting off a business unit.
We certify key GSK privacy network roles with an accredited
international privacy association.
Research practices
Risk definition The integrity and governance of our data is essential to success
Research Practices risk is the failure to adequately conduct in all stages of the data lifecycle, including design, generation,
ethical and sound pre-clinical and clinical research. In addition, recording and management, analysis, reporting, storage and
it is the failure to engage in scientific activities that are retrieval. Our R&D data are governed by legislation and
consistent with the letter and spirit of the law and industry, or regulatory requirements. Data and supporting documents are
the Group’s requirements. It comprises the following sub-risks: core components at various stages of pipeline progression
Non-Clinical & Laboratory Research; Human Subject Research; decision making and form the content of regulatory
Data Integrity; Care, Welfare & Treatment of Animals; Human submissions, publications and patent filings. Poor data integrity
Biological Samples Management; Data Disclosure; Regulatory and governance could compromise GSK’s R&D efforts and
Filings & Engagement; and Patents. negatively impact our reputation.
Risk impact There are innate complexities and interdependencies in
The potential impacts of the risk include harm to human subjects, regulatory filings, particularly given our global R&D footprint.
reputational damage, failure to obtain the necessary regulatory Ever changing and increasingly stringent submission
approvals for our products, governmental investigation, legal requirements continue to increase the complexity of worldwide
proceedings brought against the Group by governmental and product registration. The supply of GSK medicines to patients
private plaintiffs (product liability suits and claims for damages), is dependent on the ongoing compliance and maintenance of
loss of revenue due to inadequate patent protection or inability licences across many geographies, whose requirements and
to supply GSK products, and regulatory action such as fines, timelines differ. The secure management of the high volume of
penalties, or loss of product authorisation. Any of these could lifecycle changes to these licences, and their renewal, is critical
materially and adversely affect our financial results and damage to compliant supply. Failure to maintain our licences will directly
the trust of patients and customers. impact patients and company revenue.
Context A wide variety of biological materials are used by GSK in the
Research involving animals can raise ethical concerns. In many discovery, research and development of our assets. Through
cases, however, research in animals is the only way to the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) and the Nagoya
investigate the effects of a potential new medicine in a living Protocol, the international community has established a global
body other than in humans. Animal research provides critical framework regulating access to, and use of, genetic resources
information about the causes and mechanisms of diseases and of non-human origin in R&D.
therefore remains a vital part of our research. We continually
We support the principles of access to, and benefit sharing
seek ways in which we can minimise our use of animals in
of, genetic resources as outlined in the CBD and the Nagoya
research, development and testing, while complying with
Protocol. We also recognise the importance of appropriate,
regulatory requirements and reducing the impact on the animals
effective and proportionate implementation measures at national
used.
and regional levels.
Human subject research, including clinical trials in healthy
Patent rights are awarded to protect innovation and play an
volunteers and patients, assess and demonstrate an
important role in providing a competitive advantage in the
investigational product’s efficacy and safety, or further evaluate
market for a limited period of time. Any loss of patent protection
the product once it has been approved. We disclose this
in a market for GSK’s products developed through our R&D –
research externally, according to regulations, ethical principles
including reducing the term, availability or scope of patent rights
and industry commitments.
– could materially and adversely affect our financial results in
We also work with human biological samples, which are that market. Inadequate patent or data exclusivity protection
fundamental to the discovery, development and safety which could lead, for example, to competition from
monitoring of our products. GSK is committed to ensuring manufacturers of generic or biosimilar pharmaceutical products
that human biological samples are managed in accordance could limit our opportunity to rely on such markets for future
with relevant laws, regulations and ethical principles, in a sales growth. This could also materially and adversely impact
manner that respects the interests of sample donors. our financial results.
GSK Annual Report 2020 269Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Research practices continued
Following expiration of certain intellectual property rights, Enhancing our data integrity controls remains an important
a generic or biosimilar manufacturer may lawfully produce a priority. Our data integrity committees provide oversight, with
competing copy of a product. Introduction of generic products data integrity quality assurance teams conducting assessments
typically leads to a rapid and dramatic loss of sales and reduces to provide independent business monitoring of our internal
our revenues and margins for our proprietary products. controls for R&D activities.
Mitigating activities The Regulatory Governance Board serves as the global
We have an established Office of Animal Welfare, Ethics and regulatory risk management and compliance board. It promotes
Strategy (OAWES), led by our Chief Veterinary Officer, that compliance with regulatory requirements and procedures and
supports the humane and responsible care of animals, carries oversees Group-wide written standards for cross-business
out ethical reviews, independent scientific reviews of animal regulatory processes. A significant programme is underway to
studies, and shares knowledge and advocates for the replace and modernise our regulatory information management
application of non-animal alternatives. The OAWES provides a systems across GSK.
framework of animal welfare governance, defines and provides
We established an Access and Benefit Sharing Centre of
oversight for animal care and use training, promotes the
Excellence to oversee requirements and enforcement measures
replacement, refinement and reduction of animals in research,
for the acquisition and use of genetic material of non-human
conducts quality assessments, manages a programme of
origin in line with the Nagoya Protocol.
external animal diligence, and develops and deploys strategies
on reproducibility of experiments and translatability to human Our R&D organisation maintains and controls pre-publication
clinical end points. procedures to guard against public disclosure in advance of
filing patent applications. In addition, because loss of patent
GSK’s Chief Medical Officer oversees the following enterprise
protection can occur due to a lack of data integrity in preparing
Medical Governance Boards:
patent application data and information, legal experts
– The Human Subject Research Board and Risk Forum provide collaborate with R&D to support the review process for new
oversight for the human subject research that we sponsor and patent applications.
support to ensure it conforms to ethical, medical and
The Research practices risk is overseen by an enterprise
scientific standards
framework that seeks to ensure strengthened governance
– The Data Disclosure Board and Risk Forum oversee across R&D in our Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and Consumer
disclosure of our sponsored and supported human subject Healthcare businesses.
research. We make information available on our clinical
Under the leadership of the Research practices enterprise risk
studies, including summaries of the results – whether positive
owner, management of the risk takes a pragmatic approach to
or negative.
information sharing, streamlining risk identification and
We have a global human biological samples management escalation while ensuring ownership stays with the business.
(HBSM) governance framework to oversee the ethical and
lawful acquisition and management of human biological
samples. Our HBSM enterprise risk management team works
to minimise the risks related to the acquisition, storage, use,
transfer, and disposal of human biological samples.
270 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Environment, health and safety
Risk definition Mitigating activities
Failure in management of: The Corporate Executive Team is responsible for EHS
governance and risk oversight and ensures there is an effective
– execution of hazardous activities;
control framework in place, and in use, to manage the risks,
– GSK’s physical assets and infrastructure; impacts and legal compliance issues that relate to EHS across
– handling and processing of hazardous chemicals and each of our businesses. This includes assigning responsibility
biological agents; to senior managers for providing and maintaining these controls
and ensuring that tiered monitoring and governance processes
– control of releases of substances harmful to the environment
are in place within their businesses. Individual managers seek
in both the short and long term;
to ensure that the EHS control framework is effective and well
leading to incidents which could disrupt our R&D and Supply implemented in their respective business area, and that it is
activities, harm employees, harm the communities and harm the fully compliant with all applicable laws and regulations and
local environments in which we operate. is adequately resourced, maintained, communicated, and
monitored. Additionally, each employee is personally
Risk impact
responsible for ensuring that they follow all applicable local
Failure to manage EHS risks could lead to significant harm
standard operating procedures.
to people, the environment and the communities in which we
operate; fines; inability to meet stakeholder expectations and Our risk-based, proactive approach is articulated in our global
regulatory requirements; litigation or regulatory action; and EHS policy and detailed in our global EHS standards against
damage to the Group’s reputation, which could materially and which we audit all our operations to ensure compliance. We
adversely affect our financial results. ensure hazards are appropriately controlled through the safe
design of facilities, plant and equipment, and by following
Context
rigorous procedures that help us provide effective barriers to
GSK is subject to the health, safety and environmental laws
protect employees’ health and safety.
of various jurisdictions. These laws impose duties to protect
people, the environment, and the communities in which we Despite our extensive safety programmes, tragically we
operate, as well as potential obligations to remediate experienced two employee fatalities, one at a manufacturing
contaminated sites. Overall, our control framework for site in Canada and another in a road traffic accident in India.
managing EHS risk is effective. There was an additional work-related fatality in Belgium,
involving a construction worker not under GSK’s direct
supervision. We conducted extensive investigations into the
causes of each fatality to ensure we could take actions to
reduce the risk of similar tragic incidents occurring. We have
developed a safety improvement plan to further strengthen
our existing safety practices.
GSK Annual Report 2020 271Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Environmental sustainability
Risk definition Mitigating activities
Failure in the management of: In November 2020, GSK announced a new commitment to
have net zero climate impact and to be net nature positive by
– Physical climate and environmental risks;
2030. These goals build on our long-term ambition, as set out
– Current and future regulatory requirements for environmental in 2010, to reduce our impact on the environment.
policies and taxes;
The Corporate Executive Team (CET) is responsible for
– Delivery and performance of management environmental environmental sustainability governance and risk oversight. It
objectives; ensures there is an effective framework in place, and in use, to
leading to: reduced supply chain resilience; product life cycle manage the risks across each of our businesses and to deliver
management issues, loss of trust/reputation with employees, on the commitments made. GSK has a dedicated environmental
investors, customers, regulators and other stakeholders; sustainability enterprise risk plan in place. The CET’s
increased costs; loss of sales or market access; negative responsibilities include appointing dedicated senior leaders and
impacts on the environment. resources to provide and maintain risk controls and ensure that
governance processes are established and effective within their
Risk impact
businesses.
GSK recognises that the way we respond to climate change
and manage environmental risks impacts our ability to supply We will continue to control antibiotic emissions from
products to patients and consumers and could lead to harm to manufacturing effluents at all GSK facilities, and those of our
the environment and impact our reputation. suppliers, following good operational practice and meeting
emission limits as defined by the AMR Alliance Manufacturing
Failure to meet fast-evolving regulatory requirements and
Framework.
stakeholder expectations could result in litigation or regulatory
actions, which may materially and adversely impact our financial We continuously assess our business resilience to climate
results. change against the Task Force on Climate-related Financial
Disclosures framework guidelines.
Context
It is increasingly understood that the effects of climate change We ensure reductions in carbon emissions, energy, water and
and nature loss, which are themselves interconnected, are waste are delivered and managed by our mature programmes
impacting human health. Internal and external expectations for and by including eco-design considerations into products and
companies to address their impact on the environment are packaging.
increasing; as are the effects of climate change on operational
resilience, in regard to access to energy, water and the natural
resources used in products, along with potential cost increases
from any regulatory changes or environmental taxes.
272 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Information security
Risk definition Mitigating activities
The risk that unauthorised disclosure, theft, unavailability or We have a global information security policy and accompanying
corruption of GSK’s information or key information systems IT standards and processes that are supported by a dedicated
may lead to harm to our patients, workforce and customers, team and programme of activity. The GSK Technology, Security
disruption to our business and/or loss of commercial or and Risk function provides strategy, direction and oversight.
strategic advantage, damage to our reputation or regulatory This includes active monitoring of cybersecurity, while
sanction. enhancing our global information security capabilities through
an ongoing programme of investment. In 2020, we made the
Risk impact
following significant investments in mitigation activities, which
Failure to adequately protect GSK’s information, or key
we will continue to advance in the coming year:
information systems, may cause harm to our patients, workforce
and customers, disruption to our business and/or loss of – Modernising cyber operations to ensure the timely detection
commercial or strategic advantage, regulatory sanction, and response to information security incidents
or damage to our reputation.
– Modernising operational technology (OT) to address the age,
Context complexity and global footprint of the OT environment in
The overall information security environment is challenging, manufacturing and R&D sites
because of the difficulty of keeping pace with increasingly
– Optimising security architecture to mitigate the risk of network
sophisticated cyber threats. This is due to many factors
users using email, externally-connected communications and
including, the complexity of large regulated organisations; the
removeable media inappropriately, whether intentionally or
well-resourced nature of hacking activities; and the increasing
unintentionally. We are also continuing to remediate and
demands for accountability of data handled by companies. We
improve the control environment for privileged or elevated
continue to reassess GSK’s reliance on interconnectivity with
user rights across GSK’s systems
third party contractors, partners and suppliers. The COVID-19
pandemic has emerged as another significant external factor – Transferring third party risk management to a managed
impacting how information security is managed at GSK. service partner. This organisation will process GSK’s critical
COVID-19-related threats include an increase in ransomware and sensitive information and support the development of a
attacks against the healthcare sector, as hackers have used the solution that will enable us to move all third parties that
opportunity to disrupt critical healthcare operations and, in access our IT resources remotely to a more secure
some cases, seize healthcare research related to COVID-19 environment
vaccines and treatments. – Enabling business performance in high risk markets by
GSK operates a highly-connected information network which assessing data and information originating in, and flowing to,
holds confidential research and development, manufacturing, international markets where local laws and norms represent a
commercial, workforce and financial data. This means that our heightened risk to the confidentiality, integrity and availability
systems and information have been and will continue to be the of GSK’s operational systems.
target of cyberattacks. We continue to consolidate information
systems to reduce attack points and enable more focused
controls. GSK’s strategic approach to digital analytics will
further increase our dependency on digital assets and
distributed data. Our continued analysis and assessment of
GSK’s critical data assets and the threats to those assets will
require a continuous re-evaluation of emerging risks to GSK.
Mitigating actions already defined in these areas includes the
secure deployment and operation of GSK resources in high-risk
markets, the risk posed by GSK having data in the Cloud, and
the potential for complexity resulting from agile business-led IT
development across the enterprise.
GSK Annual Report 2020 273Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Supply continuity
Risk definition We also participated in the EU’s new reporting system for
Failure to deliver a continuous supply of compliant finished anticipated drug shortages, introduced during the pandemic to
product; inability to respond effectively to a crisis incident in a proactively resolve supply issues before they potentially
timely manner to recover and sustain critical operations. impacted hospital intensive care units.
Risk impact Mitigating activities
We recognise how important the continuity of supply of our The supply chain model adopted in our Pharmaceuticals,
products is to the patients and consumers who rely on them. Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare business units is designed
A material interruption of supply could lead to litigation or to ensure, as far as possible, the supply, quality and security of
regulatory action, including exclusion from healthcare our products around the world.
programmes and financial penalties that might adversely affect
Supply chain governance committees within each business unit
the Group’s financial results. GSK’s international presence,
closely monitor the inventory status and delivery of our products,
and those of our partners, expose our workforce, facilities,
with the aim of ensuring that customers have the products they
operations and IT to potential disruption from natural events
need. Improved links between commercial forecasting and
(e.g., storms and earthquakes), man-made events (e.g., the
manufacturing – made possible by our core commercial cycle
imposition of trading barriers at short notice, civil/political
– should, over time, reduce the risk associated with demand
unrest, terrorism and cyberattacks), and public health
fluctuations and any impact on our ability to supply, or the cost
emergencies (e.g., the global COVID-19 pandemic). It is
of write-offs where products exceed their expiry date. Each
therefore vital that we have robust crisis management and
node of the supply chain is periodically reviewed to ensure
recovery plans in place to manage such events.
adequate safety stock, while balancing working capital in our
Context end-to-end supply chain. Particular attention is placed on
Our supply chain operations are subject to review and approval mitigating supply risks associated with medically-critical,
by various regulatory agencies that effectively provide our high-revenue products and key new product launches.
licence to operate. Failure of our manufacturing and distribution
We routinely monitor the compliance of external manufacturing
network to deliver products could lead to litigation or regulatory
suppliers and service providers to identify and manage risks in
action, such as product recalls and seizures, interruption of
our supply base. Where practical, we minimise our dependence
supply, delays in approval of new products, and suspension of
on single sources of supply for critical items. Where alternative
manufacturing operations pending resolution of manufacturing
sourcing arrangements are not possible for certain materials,
or logistics issues.
our inventory strategy aims to limit the impact and ultimately
We rely on materials and services provided by third party protect the supply chain from unanticipated disruption.
suppliers to make our products. These include active
We continue to implement anti-counterfeit systems like product
pharmaceutical ingredients, antigens, intermediates,
serialisation in accordance with new and emerging supply chain
commodities, and components for developing, manufacturing
requirements around the world, such as the EU Falsified
and packaging pharmaceutical, vaccine and consumer
Medicines Directive.
healthcare products. Our third-party oversight includes the
outsourcing of operations, such as contract manufacturing Corporate policy requires each business and functional area
and clinical research organisations, that provide manufacturing head to ensure effective crisis management and business
and support development of key products on our behalf. continuity plans, including authorised response and recovery
strategies, key areas of responsibility and clear communication
Although we undertake risk mitigation, we recognise that
routes, are in place before any business disruption occurs.
certain events could still result in delays or service interruptions.
Corporate Security supports the business by coordinating
We use effective crisis management and business continuity
crisis management and business continuity training, facilitating
planning to ensure the health and safety of our people and to
simulation exercises, assessing preparedness and recovery
minimise the impact on supply, by maintaining functional
capability, and providing assurance oversight of GSK’s central
operations in the event of a natural or man-made disaster,
repository of plans supporting our critical business processes.
or a public health emergency. Drug shortages are reported to
appropriate regulatory authorities such as the US Food and Each business unit performs risk oversight through their
Drug Administration for transparency and to solicit feedback respective Risk Management and Compliance Board to assure
on risk mitigation. adequate risk mitigation, including identifying new and emerging
threats. For example, we have taken a coordinated approach to
Supply performance expectations increased during the
evaluating and managing the implications for GSK of Brexit.
COVID-19 pandemic as governments sought to secure supply
for key medicines and vaccines. We prioritised, and aligned These activities help ensure that we maintain an appropriate
behind, the manufacture and supply of these pandemic level of readiness and response capability. We also develop
medicines with our suppliers, leveraging strategic stocks and and maintain partnerships with external bodies, including the
modifying supply routes to avoid disrupting the availability of Business Continuity Institute and the UN International Strategy
our finished products. for Disaster Risk Reduction, which helps improve our business
continuity initiatives in disaster-prone areas and supports the
development of community resilience to disasters.
274 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Transformation
Risk definition Mitigating activities
Failure to deliver the plan for successful transformation and The Future Ready Office (FRO), established in the fourth
separation of GSK into two competitive standalone companies: quarter of 2019, is accountable for monitoring the progress,
New GSK, a biopharma company, and new Consumer performance and risks associated with creating the two new
Healthcare. leading companies. It reports monthly to the Corporate
Executive Team (CET) to ensure there is enterprise oversight of
Risk impact
the plan, using key performance and risk indicators. In addition,
The failure to manage the increasing macro level risk due to
GSK’s Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Chief Financial Officer,
COVID-19 in relation to the delivery of the transformation plan
Chief Strategy Officer and Head of FRO meet the leaders of
could materially and adversely affect our ability to deliver GSK’s
Consumer Healthcare when input and approval of key design
strategy and long-term priorities.
choices for that new company is required. Overall, the balance
Context between transformation and separation is upheld through clear
In February 2020, GSK announced a new ‘Future Ready’ governance, joint New GSK and Consumer Healthcare
programme to prepare for its separation into two companies: coordination, rigorous progress tracking and the setting of
New GSK, a biopharma company with an R&D approach clear parameters.
focused on science related to the immune system, the use of
The GSK Board is regularly informed of the Future Ready
genetics and new technologies, and a new leader in consumer
programme lead indicators through the CEO Board Report
healthcare. As GSK increases investment in R&D and new
at each Board meeting. A Transformation and Separation
product launches, the two-year separation programme aims to
Committee has been established at Board level to support and
drive a common approach to innovation across modalities with
advise management’s work on transforming and separating the
improved capital allocation; to align and improve the capabilities
Group. This committee is chaired by the GSK Chairman and
and efficiencies of global support functions to support New
includes our Senior Independent Director and the Chairs of the
GSK; to further optimise the supply chain and portfolio,
Audit & Risk, Remuneration and Corporate Responsibility
including divesting non-core assets; and to prepare Consumer
Committees.
Healthcare to operate as a standalone company. Once
complete, the outlook of both companies will have been
fundamentally strengthened, making them more efficient,
modern and automated, with future skills and capabilities
that will extend beyond the transition timeline.
GSK Annual Report 2020 275Shareholder information
Share capital and control
Details of our issued share capital and the number of shares Interests in voting rights
held in Treasury as at 31 December 2020 can be found in Other than as stated below, as far as we are aware, there are
Note 36 to the financial statements, ‘Share capital and share no persons with significant direct or indirect holdings in the
premium account’. company. Information provided to the company pursuant to
the Financial Conduct Authority’s Disclosure Guidance and
Our Ordinary Shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange
Transparency Rules (DTR 5) is published on a Regulatory
(LSE) and are also quoted on the New York Stock Exchange
Information Service and on the company’s website,
(NYSE) in the form of American Depositary Shares (ADS). Each
www.gsk.com.
ADS represents two Ordinary Shares. For details of listed debt
and where it is listed refer to Note 29 to the financial statements, The company has received notifications in accordance with
‘Net debt’. DTR 5 of the following notifiable interests in the voting rights in
the company’s issued share capital:
Holders of Ordinary Shares and ADS are entitled to receive
dividends (when declared) and the company’s Annual Report. 31 December 2020 3 March 2021
They are also entitled to attend, speak, appoint proxies and Percentage Percentage
exercise voting rights at general meetings of the company. No. of of total voting No. of of total voting
voting rights rights(1) voting rights rights(1)
There are no restrictions on the transfer, or limitations on the BlackRock, Inc 332,238,289(2) 6.40% 332,238,289(2) 6.40%
holding, of Ordinary Shares and ADS and no requirements Dodge & Cox – – 253,464,108(3) 5.04%
to obtain approval prior to any transfers. No Ordinary Shares
(1) Percentage of total voting rights at the date of notification to the company.
or ADS carry any special rights with regard to control of the
(2) Comprising an indirect interest in 329,124,508 Ordinary Shares and a
company and there are no restrictions on voting rights. Major
holding of 3,113,781 Qualifying Financial Instruments (Contract for
shareholders have the same voting rights per share as all other Difference).
shareholders. There are no known arrangements under which (3) Comprising an indirect interest in 99,377,874 Ordinary Shares and
financial rights are held by a person other than the holder of 154,086,234 American Depositary Shares.
the shares and no known agreements on restrictions on share
The company has not acquired or disposed of any interests
transfers or on voting rights.
in its own shares during the period under review, with the
Shares acquired through the Group’s employee share plans exception of those transferred from Treasury to satisfy awards
rank equally with the other shares in issue and have no special under the Group’s employee share plans.
rights. The trustees of our Employee Share Ownership Plan
Share buy-back programme
trusts have waived their rights to dividends on shares held by
The Board has been authorised to issue and allot Ordinary
those trusts.
Shares under Article 9 of the company’s Articles of Association.
Exchange controls and other limitations affecting holders The power under Article 9 and the authority for the company to
Other than certain economic sanctions, which may be in make purchases of its own shares are subject to shareholder
force from time to time, there are currently no applicable laws, authorities which are sought on an annual basis at our Annual
decrees or regulations in force in the UK restricting the import General Meeting (AGM). Any shares purchased by the
or export of capital or restricting the remittance of dividends or company may be cancelled, held as Treasury shares or
other payments to holders of the company’s shares who are used for satisfying share options and grants under the Group's
non-residents of the UK. Similarly, other than certain economic employee share plans.
sanctions which may be in force from time to time, there are no
Our programme covers purchases of shares for cancellation
limitations relating only to non-residents of the UK under English
or to be held as Treasury shares, in accordance with the
law or the company’s Articles of Association on the right to be a
authority renewed by shareholders at the AGM in May 2020,
holder of, and to vote in respect of, the company’s shares.
when the company was authorised to purchase a maximum
of just under 502 million shares. Details of shares purchased,
cancelled, held as Treasury shares and subsequently
transferred from Treasury to satisfy awards under the Group’s
employee share plans are disclosed in Note 36 to the financial
statements, ‘Share capital and share premium account’.
In determining specific share repurchase levels, the company
considers the development of free cash flow during the year.
No shares have been purchased since 2014.
The company confirms that it does not currently intend to make
any market purchases in 2021. The company will review the
potential for future share buy-backs in line with its usual annual
cycle and subject to return and ratings criteria.
276 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Shareholder information continued
Share capital and control continued
Market capitalisation UK£ US$
The market capitalisation, based on shares in issue excluding
19 80
Treasury shares, of GSK at 31 December 2020 was £67.33
18 75
billion. At that date, GSK was the 6th largest company by
17 70
market capitalisation in the FTSE index.
16 65
Share price
2020 2019 2018 15 60
£ £ £
14 55
At 1 January 17.79 14.91 13.23
At 31 December 13.42 17.79 14.91 13 50
Increase/(decrease) (24.6)% 19.3% 12.7% 12 45
High during the year 18.46 18.19 16.22 11 40
Low during the year 12.92 14.36 12.43 10 35
The table above sets out the middle market closing prices. 09 30
The company’s share price decreased by 24.6% in 2020. This 31/12/17 31/12/18 31/12/19 31/12/20
compares with an increase in the FTSE 100 index of 14.3% UK share price (UK£) US ADS price (US$)
during the year. The middle market closing share price on
3 March 2021 was £12.08.
Nature of trading market
The following table sets out, for the periods indicated, the high and low middle market closing prices for the company’s Ordinary
Shares on the LSE and for the ADS on the NYSE.
Ordinary Shares ADS
UK£ per share US$ per share
High Low High Low
March 2021* 12.09 12.01 34.24 33.73
February 2021 13.68 11.91 37.59 33.61
January 2021 14.14 13.42 39.24 36.80
December 2020 14.17 13.33 37.97 36.09
November 2020 14.68 13.25 39.17 34.40
October 2020 14.50 12.92 37.69 33.42
September 2020 15.33 14.35 39.90 37.38
Quarter ended 31 December 2020 14.68 12.92 39.17 33.42
Quarter ended 30 September 2020 16.60 14.35 42.16 37.38
Quarter ended 30 June 2020 17.42 14.89 42.74 37.14
Quarter ended 31 March 2020 18.46 13.75 47.89 31.85
Quarter ended 31 December 2019 18.19 16.36 47.32 41.19
Quarter ended 30 September 2019 17.45 15.90 42.68 39.68
Quarter ended 30 June 2019 16.07 15.02 41.88 38.64
Quarter ended 31 March 2019 15.97 14.36 41.87 37.83
Year ended 31 December 2019 18.19 14.36 47.32 37.83
Year ended 31 December 2018 16.22 12.43 41.94 35.49
Year ended 31 December 2017 17.22 12.76 44.37 34.66
Year ended 31 December 2016 17.23 13.45 45.49 37.39
* to 3 March 2021
GSK Annual Report 2020 277Shareholder information continued
Analysis of shareholdings at 31 December 2020
Number of % of total % of total Number of
accounts accounts shares shares
Holding of shares
Up to 1,000 73,707 71.20 0.47 25,340,430
1,001 to 5,000 23,295 22.50 0.93 50,136,696
5,001 to 100,000 5,413 5.23 1.55 83,179,656
100,001 to 1,000,000 739 0.71 4.79 258,213,935
Over 1,000,000 374 0.36 92.26 4,968,318,900
103,528 100.00 100.00 5,385,189,617
Held by
Institutional and Corporate holders 4,829 4.66 61.90 3,333,752,207
Individuals and other corporate bodies 98,696 95.34 14.03 755,558,172
Guaranty Nominees Limited 2 0.00 17.47 940,673,288
Held as Treasury shares by GlaxoSmithKline 1 0.00 6.60 355,205,950
J.P. Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. is the Depositary for the company’s American Depository Receipt (ADR) programme. The
company’s ADS are listed on the NYSE. Ordinary Shares representing the company’s ADR programme, which is managed by the
Depositary, are registered in the name of Guaranty Nominees Limited. At 3 March 2021, Guaranty Nominees Limited held
935,976,788 Ordinary Shares representing 18.60% of the issued share capital (excluding Treasury shares) at that date.
At 3 March 2021, the number of holders of Ordinary Shares in the US was 949 with holdings of 947,263 Ordinary Shares, and the
number of registered holders of ADS was 19,411 with holdings of 467,988,394 ADS. Certain of these Ordinary Shares and ADS
were held by brokers or other nominees. As a result, the number of holders of record or registered holders in the US is not
representative of the number of beneficial holders or of the residence of beneficial holders.
Dividends
The company pays dividends quarterly and continues to return The Board intends to maintain the dividend for 2021 at the
cash to shareholders through its dividend policy. Dividends current level of 80p per share, subject to any material change
remain an essential component of total shareholder return and in the external environment or performance expectations, and
GSK recognises the importance of dividends to shareholders. to implement a new distribution policy for dividends from 2022.
The company aims to distribute regular dividend payments that Details of the dividends declared, the amounts and the payment
will be determined primarily with reference to the free cash flow dates are given in Note 16 to the financial statements,
generated by the business after funding the investment ‘Dividends’.
necessary to support the Group’s future growth.
2021 Dividend calendar
Dividends per share
Quarter Ex-dividend date Record date Payment date
The table below sets out the dividend per share and per ADS Q4 2020 18 February 2021 19 February 2021 8 April 2021
for the last five years. The dividend per ADS is translated into Q1 2021 20 May 2021 21 May 2021 8 July 2021
US dollars at applicable exchange rates. Q2 2021 19 August 2021 20 August 2021 7 October 2021
Q3 2021 18 November 2021 19 November 2021 13 January 2022
Year Dividend pence US$
Q4 2021 24 February 2022 25 February 2022 7 April 2022
2020 80 –*
2019 80 1.98
2018 80 2.08
2017 80 2.16
2016 80 2.00
* T he Q4 2020 ordinary dividend receivable by ADS holders will be calculated based on
the exchange rate on 8 April 2021. An annual fee of $0.03 per ADS (or $0.0075 per
ADS per quarter) will be charged by the Depository. The cumulative dividend receivable
by ADS holders for Q1, Q2 and Q3 2020 was $1.48.
278 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Shareholder information continued
Financial calendar 2021
Results announcements
Event Date
Results announcements are issued to the LSE and are available
Quarter 1 Results announcement April 2021
on its news service. They are also sent to the US Securities and
Annual General Meeting May 2021
Exchange Commission (SEC) and the NYSE, issued to the
Biopharma Investor Update June 2021
media and made available on our website.
Quarter 2 Results announcement July 2021
Quarter 3 Results announcement October 2021 Financial reports
Preliminary/Quarter 4 Results announcement February 2022 The company publishes an Annual Report which is made
Annual Report publication February/March 2022 available on our website from the date of publication.
Annual Report distribution March 2022 Shareholders may elect to receive notification by email
of the publication of Annual Reports by registering on
Information about the company, including the share and ADS
www.shareview.co.uk, and may also elect to receive a
price, is available on our website at www.gsk.com. Information
printed copy of the Annual Report by contacting our registrar,
made available on the website does not constitute part of this
Equiniti Limited.
Annual Report.
Copies of previous Annual Reports are available on our website.
Printed copies can also be obtained from our registrar (see
page 282 for the contact details).
Annual General Meeting 2021
Our Annual General Meeting (AGM) will be held at 2.30pm Investors holding shares through a nominee service should
(UK time) on Wednesday, 5 May 2021 at 980 Great West arrange with that nominee service to be appointed as a proxy
Road, Brentford, Middlesex TW8 9GS, which is the company's in respect of their shareholding in order to attend and vote at
registered office. the meeting electronically.
The AGM will be broadcast online from our registered office ADS holders wishing to attend the meeting electronically should
and, in line with the UK Government's COVID-19 restrictions, refer to the AGM Notice for details on how to request a proxy
physical attendance by shareholders will not be permitted. All appointment from the Depositary, J.P. Morgan Chase Bank N.A.
shareholders will be invited to attend the meeting electronically. This will enable them to attend, ask questions and vote, all
The AGM is the company’s principal forum for communication electronically, on the business to be transacted at the meeting.
with private shareholders. In addition to the formal AGM ADS holders are reminded that if they do not instruct the
business, there will be a presentation by the CEO on the Depositary as to the way in which the shares represented
performance of the Group and its future development. There by their ADS should be voted by completing and returning
will be an opportunity for questions to be asked of the Board. the voting card provided by the Depositary, their shares
Chairs of the Board’s Committees and the Workforce will not be voted.
Engagement Director will be available to take questions
Documents on display
relating to their roles.
The Articles of Association of the company and Directors’
Further details on how to access the AGM, ask questions and service contracts or, where applicable, letters of appointment
vote, all electronically, can be found in the notice of Annual between Directors and the company or any of its subsidiaries
General Meeting 2021 (AGM Notice) which is available on (and any side letters relating to severance terms and pension
our website at www.gsk.com. arrangements) are available for inspection at the company’s
registered office by appointment.
GSK Annual Report 2020 279Shareholder information continued
Tax information for shareholders
A summary of certain UK tax and US federal income tax Inheritance tax
consequences for holders of shares and ADS who are citizens Individual (UK-domiciled or otherwise) shareholders may be
of the UK or the US is set out below. It is not a complete liable to UK inheritance tax on the transfer of shares or ADS.
analysis of all the possible tax consequences of the purchase, Tax may be charged on the amount by which the value of the
ownership or sale of these securities. It is intended only as a shareholder’s estate is reduced as a result of any transfer by
general guide. Holders are advised to consult their advisers with way of lifetime gift or other disposal at less than full market
respect to the tax consequences of the purchase, ownership or value. In the case of a bequest on death, tax may be charged on
sale of their shares or ADS and the consequences under state the value of the shares at the date of the shareholder’s death.
and local tax laws in the US and the implications of the current If such a gift or other disposal were subject to both UK
UK/US tax conventions. inheritance tax and US estate or gift tax, the Estate and Gift Tax
Convention would generally provide for tax paid in the US to be
US holders of ADS generally will be treated as the owners of
credited against tax payable in the UK.
the underlying shares for the purposes of the current UK/US
double taxation conventions relating to income and gains Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax
(Income Tax Convention), estate and gift taxes (Estate and Gift UK stamp duty and/or stamp duty reserve tax (SDRT) will,
Tax Convention), and for the purposes of the Internal Revenue subject to certain exemptions, be payable on the transfer of
Code of 1986, as amended. shares at a rate of 0.5% (rounded up to the nearest £5 in
the case of stamp duty) of the consideration for the transfer.
UK shareholders
Notwithstanding this, provided that an instrument is executed
This summary only applies to a UK resident shareholder that in pursuance of the agreement that gave rise to the charge to
holds shares as capital assets. SDRT and that instrument is stamped within six years of the
agreement (including being stamped as exempt) any SDRT
Taxation of dividends charge should be cancelled and any SDRT which has already
For the 2020/21 UK tax year, UK resident individuals are been paid will be repaid.
entitled to a dividend tax allowance of up to £2,000, so that the
first £2,000 of dividends received in a tax year will be free of US shareholders
tax. Dividends in excess of this allowance will be taxed at 7.5%
This summary only applies to a shareholder (who is a citizen or
for basic rate taxpayers, 32.5% for higher rate taxpayers and
resident of the US or a domestic corporation or a person that
38.1% for additional rate taxpayers.
is otherwise subject to US federal income tax on a net income
UK resident shareholders that are corporation taxpayers should basis in respect of the shares or ADS) that holds shares or ADS
note that dividends payable on ordinary shares are generally as capital assets, is not resident in the UK for UK tax purposes
entitled to exemption from corporation tax. and does not hold shares for the purposes of a trade, profession
or vocation that is carried on in the UK through a branch or
Taxation of capital gains
agency.
UK resident shareholders may be liable for UK tax on gains on
the disposal of shares or ADS. The summary also does not address the tax treatment of
holders that are subject to special tax rules, such as banks,
For disposals by individuals in the 2020/21 UK tax year, a
tax-exempt entities, insurance companies, dealers in securities
taxable capital gain accruing on a disposal of shares or ADS
or currencies, persons that hold shares or ADS as part of an
will be taxed at 10% for basic rate taxpayers, or 20% if, after
integrated investment (including a ‘straddle’) comprised of a
all allowable deductions, the individual’s taxable income for
share or ADS and one or more other positions, and persons that
the year exceeds the basic rate income tax banding. Note this is
own (directly or indirectly) 10% or more of the company’s stock
following the use of any exemptions available to the individual
(by vote or value), nor does it address tax treatment that may be
taxpayer such as the annual exempt amount.
applicable as a result of international income tax treaties.
Corporation taxpayers may be entitled to an indexation
allowance which applies to reduce capital gains to the extent
that such gains arise due to inflation. Indexation allowance may
reduce a chargeable gain but will not create an allowable loss.
For assets acquired on or before 1 January 2018, legislation in
the Finance Act 2018 freezes the level of indexation allowance
that is given in calculating a company’s chargeable gains at the
value that would apply to the disposal of an asset in December
2017. For assets acquired from 1 January 2018 onwards,
legislation in the Finance Act 2018 removes any indexation
allowance on disposal.
280 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Shareholder information continued
Tax information for shareholders continued
Taxation of dividends Taxation of capital gains
The gross amount of dividends received is treated as foreign Generally, US holders will not be subject to UK capital gains
source dividend income for US tax purposes. It is not eligible for tax, but will be subject to US tax on capital gains realised on
the dividend received deduction allowed to US corporations. the sale or other disposal of shares or ADS. Such gains will be
Dividends on ADS are payable in US dollars; dividends on long-term capital gains (subject to reduced rates of taxation for
Ordinary Shares are payable in Sterling. Dividends paid in individual holders) if the shares or ADS were held for more than
Sterling will be included in income in the US dollar amount one year, from the date the shares were vested/released.
calculated by reference to the exchange rate on the day the Short-term capital gains can be subject to taxation of rates of
dividends are received by the holder. Subject to certain up to 40.8%, whereas long-term capital gains may be subject to
exceptions for short-term or hedged positions, an individual rates of up to 23.8%. State and local tax rates on capital gains
eligible US holder will be subject to US taxation at a maximum may also apply.
federal rate of 23.8% plus applicable state and local tax in
Information reporting and backup withholding
respect of qualified dividends. A qualified dividend as defined
Dividends and payments of the proceeds on a sale of shares or
by the US Internal Revenue Service (IRS) is a dividend that
ADS, paid within the US or through certain US-related financial
meets the following criteria:
intermediaries, are subject to information reporting and may
1. Must be issued by a US corporation, a corporation be subject to backup withholding unless the US holder is a
incorporated in a US possession, or a corporation that is corporation or other exempt recipient or provides a taxpayer
eligible for the benefits of a comprehensive income tax treaty identification number and certifies that no loss of exemption
deemed satisfactory, as published by the IRS has occurred. Non-US holders generally are not subject to
2. The dividends are not of a type listed by the IRS as dividends information reporting or backup withholding, but may be
that do not qualify required to provide a certification of their non-US status in
connection with payments received. Any amounts withheld will
3. The required dividend holding period has been met. The
be allowed as a refund or credit against a holder’s US federal
shares must have been owned by you for more than 60 days
income tax liability provided the required information is furnished
of the ‘holding period’ – which is defined as the 121-day
to the IRS.
period that begins 60 days before the ex-dividend date, or
the day in which the stock trades without the dividend priced Estate and gift taxes
in. For example, if a stock’s ex-dividend date is 1 October, Under the Estate and Gift Tax Convention, a US shareholder
the shares must be held for more than 60 days in the period is not generally subject to UK inheritance tax. However, a US
between 2 August and 30 November of that year in order to holder may be subject to US federal estate and gift tax.
count as a qualified dividend.
Stamp duty
Dividends that are not qualified are subject to taxation at the
UK stamp duty and/or SDRT will, subject to certain exemptions,
US federal graduated tax rates, at a maximum rate of 40.8%.
be payable on any transfer of shares to the ADS custodian or
Some types of dividends are automatically excluded from being
depository at a rate of 1.5% of the amount of any consideration
qualified dividends, even if they meet the other requirements.
provided (if transferred on sale), or their value (if transferred for
These include (but are not limited to):
no consideration).
1. Capital gains distributions
However, no stamp duty or SDRT should be payable on the
2. Dividends on bank deposits transfer of, or agreement to transfer, an ADS.
3. Dividends held by a corporation in an Employee Stock
Ownership Plan (ESOP)
4. Dividends paid by tax-exempt corporations.
US state and local tax rates on qualified and non-qualified
dividends may vary and would be assessed in addition to the
federal tax rates communicated above.
GSK Annual Report 2020 281Other statutory disclosures
Shareholder services and contacts
Registrar
The company’s registrar is:
Equiniti Limited
Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, BN99 6DA
www.shareview.co.uk
Tel: 0371 384 2991 (in the UK)*
Tel: +44 (0)121 415 7067 (outside the UK)
Equiniti provides a range of services for shareholders:
Service What it offers How to participate
Dividend Reinvestment Plan As an alternative to receiving cash dividends you may choose A DRIP election form can be downloaded
(DRIP) to reinvest your dividends to buy more GSK shares. from www.shareview.co.uk or requested by
contacting Equiniti.
Dividend payment direct to your bank All dividends are paid directly into your bank or building society A dividend bank mandate form can be
account (Bank Mandate) account. To receive your cash dividends, you must provide downloaded from www.shareview.co.uk
Equiniti with your bank or building society account details. or requested by contacting Equiniti.
This is a quick and secure method of payment.
Dividend payment direct to bank Equiniti can convert your dividend into your local currency and For more details on this service and the costs
account for overseas shareholders send it direct to your local bank account. This service is available involved please contact Equiniti.
in over 100 countries worldwide.
Electronic communications Shareholders may elect to receive electronic notifications Please register at www.shareview.co.uk.
of company communications including our Annual Report,
dividend payments, dividend confirmations and the availability of
online voting for all general meetings. Each time GSK publishes
shareholder documents you will receive an email containing a link
to the document or relevant website.
Shareview portfolio service This enables you to create a free online portfolio to view your Please register at www.shareview.co.uk.
share balance and movements, update your address and
dividend payment instructions and register your votes for
our general meetings.
Deduplication of publications or mailings If you receive duplicate copies of mailings, you may have more Please contact Equiniti.
than one account. Please contact Equiniti and they will arrange
for your accounts to be merged into one for your convenience
and to avoid waste and unnecessary costs.
Share dealing service† Shareholders may trade shares, either held in certificated For online transactions, please log on to:
(please note that market trading hours form or in our Corporate Sponsored Nominee, online, by www.shareview.co.uk/dealing.
are from 8.00am to 4.30pm UK time, telephone or via postal dealing service provided by Equiniti For telephone transactions, please call:
Monday to Friday (excluding public Financial Services Limited. 0345 603 7037 (in the UK) or
holidays in England and Wales)) +44 (0)121 415 7560 (outside the UK).
Lines are open from 8.00am to 4.30pm
UK time, Monday to Friday (excluding
UK public holidays).
For postal transactions, please call:
0371 384 2991* to request a
dealing form.
Corporate Sponsored Nominee Account This is a convenient way to manage your shares without requiring An application form can be requested
a share certificate. The service provides a facility for you to hold from www.shareview.co.uk or by
your shares in a nominee account sponsored by the company. contacting Equiniti.
You will continue to receive dividend payments and can attend
and vote at the company’s general meetings. Shareholders’
names do not appear on the publicly available share register
and the service is free to join.
Individual Savings Accounts (ISAs)† The company has arranged for Equiniti Financial Services Details are available from www.shareview.co.uk
Limited to provide a GSK Corporate ISA to hold GSK shares. or can be requested by telephoning Equiniti,
on 0345 300 0430. Lines are open 8.00am
to 4.30pm for dealing, and until 6.00pm for
enquiries Monday to Friday (excluding public
holidays in England and Wales).
* Lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday (excluding public holidays in England and Wales).
† The provision of share dealing details is not intended to be an invitation or inducement to engage in an investment activity. Advice on share dealing should be obtained from a
stockbroker or independent financial adviser.
282 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Other statutory disclosures continued
Shareholders services and contacts continued
ADS Depositary Contacts
The ADR programme is administered by J.P. Morgan Investor relations
Chase Bank, N.A: Investor relations may be contacted as follows:
Regular Correspondence: UK
EQ Shareowner Services 980 Great West Road
P.O. Box 64504 Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS
St. Paul, MN 55164-0504 Tel: +44 (0)20 8047 5000
Delivery of Stock Certificates and Overnight Mail: US
EQ Shareowner Services
5 Crescent Drive
110 Centre Point Curve, Suite 101
Philadelphia PA 19112
Mendota Heights, MN 55120-4100
Tel: +1 888 825 5249 (US toll free)
www.shareowneronline.com Tel: +1 215 751 4611 (outside the US)
General: +1 800 990 1135 GSK Response Center
From outside the U.S: +1 651 453 2128
Tel: +1 888 825 5249 (US toll free)
The Depository also provides Global Invest Direct, a direct
Share scam alert
ADS purchase/sale and dividend reinvestment plan for ADS
If you receive an unsolicited telephone call offering to sell or buy
holders. For details on how to enrol please visit www.adr.com
your shares, please take extra care. The caller may be part of a
or call the above helpline number to obtain an enrolment pack.
highly organised financial scam.
Donating shares to Save the Children
If you are a UK shareholder, please contact the Financial
In 2013, GSK embarked on an ambitious global partnership
Conduct Authority at www.fca.org.uk/consumers or on its
with Save the Children to share our expertise and resources
consumer helpline:
with the aim of helping to save the lives of one million children.
Tel: 0800 111 6768 (in the UK)*
Shareholders with a small number of shares, the value of which
makes it uneconomical to sell, may wish to consider donating Tel: +44 (0)20 7066 1000 (outside the UK)
them to Save the Children. Donated shares will be aggregated * Lines are open from 8.00am to 6.00pm, UK time, Monday to Friday, except UK public
and sold by Save the Children who will use the funds raised to holidays, and 9.00am to 1.00pm on Saturdays.
help them reach the above goal.†
To obtain a share donation form, please contact our registrar,
Equiniti, which is managing the donation and sale of UK shares
to Save the Children free of charge.
† The provision of share dealing details is not intended to be an invitation or inducement
to engage in an investment activity. Advice on share dealing should be obtained from
a stockbroker or independent financial adviser.
Stock Exchange announcement notifications
We provide shareholders with a service to receive automatic
email notifications when we publish a stock exchange
announcement. To receive email notifications, please sign up
for announcements at www.gsk.com in the Investors section.
GSK Annual Report 2020 283Other statutory disclosures continued
US law and regulation
A number of provisions of US law and regulation apply to the Section 302: Corporate responsibility for
company because our shares are quoted on the NYSE in the financial reports
form of ADS. Sarbanes-Oxley requires for the CEO and the CFO to complete
formal certifications, confirming that:
NYSE rules
In general, the NYSE rules permit the company to follow UK – they have each reviewed the annual report on Form 20-F
corporate governance practices instead of those applied in – based on their knowledge, the annual report on Form 20-F
the US, provided that we explain any significant variations. contains no material misstatements or omissions
This explanation is contained in our Form 20-F, which can be
– based on their knowledge, the financial statements and other
accessed from the SEC'S EDGAR database or via our website.
financial information fairly present, in all material respects, the
NYSE rules require us to file annual and interim written
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows as of
affirmations concerning our Audit & Risk Committee (ARC)
the dates, and for the periods, presented in the annual report
and our statement on significant differences in corporate
on Form 20-F
governance.
– they are responsible for establishing and maintaining
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
disclosure controls and procedures that ensure that material
Following a number of corporate and accounting scandals in information is made known to them, and have evaluated the
the US, Congress passed the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. effectiveness of these controls and procedures as at the year-
Sarbanes-Oxley is a wide-ranging piece of legislation end, the results of such evaluation being contained in the
concerned largely with financial reporting and corporate annual report on Form 20-F
governance.
– they are responsible for establishing and maintaining internal
As recommended by the SEC, the company has established a control over financial reporting that provides reasonable
Disclosure Committee. The Committee reports to the CEO, the assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and
CFO and to the ARC. It is chaired by the Company Secretary the preparation of financial statements for external purposes
and its members consist of senior managers from finance, legal, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles
corporate communications and investor relations.
– they have disclosed in the annual report on Form 20-F any
External legal counsel, the external auditors and internal experts changes in internal controls over financial reporting during the
are invited to attend the Disclosure Committee’s meetings period covered by the annual report on Form 20-F that have
periodically. The Committee has responsibility for considering materially affected, or are reasonably likely to affect materially,
the materiality of information and, on a timely basis, determining the company’s internal control over financial reporting, and
the disclosure of that information. It has responsibility for the they have disclosed, based on their most recent evaluation of
timely filing of reports with the SEC and the formal review of internal control over financial reporting, to the external auditor
the Annual Report and Form 20-F. In 2020, the Committee met and the ARC, all significant deficiencies and material
17 times. weaknesses in the design or operation of internal controls
Sarbanes-Oxley requires that the annual report on Form 20-F over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to affect
contains a statement as to whether a member of the ARC is adversely the company’s ability to record, process,
an audit committee financial expert, as defined in rules under summarise and report financial information, and any fraud
Sarbanes-Oxley. Such a statement for the relevant members (regardless of materiality) involving persons that have a
of the ARC (Judy Lewent and Charles Bancroft) are included significant role in the company’s internal control over financial
in the Board Committee information area of the Corporate reporting.
Governance report on page 97 and in their biographies on The Group has carried out an evaluation under the supervision
pages 81 and 82. Additional disclosure requirements arise and with the participation of its management, including the CEO
under section 302 and section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley in and CFO, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of
respect of disclosure controls and procedures and internal the Group’s disclosure controls and procedures as at 31
control over financial reporting. December 2020.
There are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system
of disclosure controls and procedures, including the possibility
of human error and the circumvention or overriding of the
controls and procedures. Accordingly, even effective disclosure
controls and procedures can only provide reasonable
assurance of achieving their control objectives.
284 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Other statutory disclosures continued
US law and regulation continued
The CEO and CFO expect to complete these certifications The Group exports certain pharmaceutical, vaccine and
and report their conclusions on the effectiveness of disclosure consumer products to Iran, via sales by non-US entities that
controls and procedures in March 2021, following which the are not subsidiaries of a US entity, to two privately held Iranian
certifications will be filed with the SEC as part of our Group’s distributors.
Form 20-F.
The Group does not regularly receive information regarding
Section 404: Management’s annual report on internal the identity of its distributors' downstream customers and
control over financial reporting intermediaries in Iran, and it is possible that these parties
In accordance with the requirements of section 404 of include entities, such as government-owned hospitals and
Sarbanes-Oxley, the following report is provided by pharmacies, that are owned directly or indirectly by the Iranian
management in respect of the company’s internal control over government or by persons or entities sanctioned in connection
financial reporting (as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) with terrorism or proliferation activities.
under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended Because the Group does not regularly receive information
(the Exchange Act)): regarding the identity of its distributors' downstream customers
– management is responsible for establishing and maintaining it cannot establish the proportion of gross revenue or sales
adequate internal control over financial reporting for the potentially attributable to entities affiliated with the Iranian
Group. Internal control over financial reporting is designed government or parties sanctioned for disclosable activities.
to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of As a result, the Group is reporting the entire gross revenues
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements (£16.5 million) and net loss (£5.9 million) from the Group's sales
for external purposes in accordance with IFRS to Iran in 2020.
– management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness The Group is also aware that some hospitals or other medical
of internal control over financial reporting based on the facilities in Lebanon may be affiliated with or controlled by
framework, Internal Control – Integrated Framework (2013) Hezbollah or other groups that are designated by the United
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of States pursuant to Executive Order 13224. Again, the Group
the Treadway Commission (COSO) does not deal directly with such hospitals or facilities and
instead sells through distributors. The Group is unable to
– there have been no changes in the Group’s internal control
establish the proportion of gross revenue or sales potentially
over financial reporting during 2020 that have materially
attributable to reportable activities. As a result, the Group is
affected, or are reasonably likely to affect materially, the
reporting the entire gross revenues (£50.3 million) and net
Group’s internal control over financial reporting
profits (£16.0 million) from the Group's sales to Lebanon
– management has assessed the effectiveness of internal in 2020.
control over financial reporting as at 31 December 2020
Unless noted, the Group intends to continue the activities
and its conclusion will be filed as part of the Group’s Form
described above.
20-F, and
In addition to Section 13(r) of the Exchange Act, US law
– Deloitte LLP, which has audited the consolidated financial
generally restricts dealings by US persons and dealings that
statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December
otherwise are subject to US jurisdiction with certain countries or
2020, has also assessed the effectiveness of the Group’s
territories that are subject to comprehensive sanctions, currently
internal control over financial reporting under Auditing
Crimea, Cuba, Iran, North Korea and Syria, as well as with the
Standard 2201 of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Government of Venezuela (though not with the country of
Board (United States). Their audit report will be filed with the
Venezuela as a whole). The Group does business, via non-US
Group’s Form 20-F.
entities (which are not owned or controlled by US entities), in
Section 13(r) of the Exchange Act certain such jurisdictions. While we believe the Group complies
with all applicable US sanctions in all material respects, such
Section 13(r) of the Exchange Act requires issuers to make
laws are complex and continue to evolve rapidly.
specific disclosure in their annual reports of certain types of
dealings with Iran, including transactions or dealings with
government-owned entities, as well as dealings with entities
sanctioned for activities related to terrorism or proliferation of
weapons of mass destruction, even when those activities are
not prohibited by US law and do not involve US persons.
GSK Annual Report 2020 285Other statutory disclosures continued
Donations to political organisations and political expenditure
To ensure a consistent approach to political contributions As a result, the definitions may cover legitimate business
across the Group, in 2009 a global policy was introduced activities not in the ordinary sense considered to be political
to voluntarily stop all corporate political contributions. donations or political expenditure, nor are they designed to
support any political party or independent election candidate.
In the period from 1 January 2009 to 31 December 2020,
the Group did not make any political donations to EU or Therefore, notwithstanding our policy, and while we do
non-EU organisations. not intend to make donations to any EU political parties or
organisations, nor to incur any EU political expenditure, we
Notwithstanding the introduction of this policy, in accordance
annually seek shareholder authorisation for any inadvertent
with the Federal Election Campaign Act in the US, we continue
expenditure.
to support an employee-operated Political Action Committee
(PAC) that facilitates voluntary political donations by eligible The authority is a precautionary measure to ensure that the
GSK employees. company and its subsidiaries do not inadvertently breach the
legislation.
The PAC is not controlled by GSK. Decisions on the
amounts and recipients of contributions are made by This authorisation process, for expenditure of up to £100,000
participating employees exercising their legal right to pool each year, dates back to the AGM held in May 2001, following
their resources and make political contributions, which are the introduction of the Political Parties, Elections and
subject to strict limitations. In 2020, a total of US$366,750 Referendums Act 2000. The authority has since been
(2019 – US$265,185) was donated to political organisations renewed annually.
by the GSK employee PAC.
English law requires prior shareholder approval for political
contributions to EU political parties and independent election
candidates as well as for any EU political expenditure. The
definitions of political donations, political expenditure, and
political organisations used in the legislation are, however,
quite broad. In particular, the definition of EU political
organisations may extend to bodies such as those concerned
with policy review, law reform, the representation of the
business community and special interest groups such as
those concerned with the environment, which the company
and its subsidiaries might wish to support.
286 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Other statutory disclosures continued
Group companies
In accordance with Section 409 of the Companies Act 2006 a full list of subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures and joint
arrangements, the address of the registered office and effective percentage of equity owned, as at 31 December 2020 are
disclosed below. Unless otherwise stated the share capital disclosed comprises Ordinary shares which are indirectly held by
GlaxoSmithKline plc. The percentage held by class of share is stated where this is less than 100%. Unless otherwise stated,
all subsidiary companies have their registered office and are tax resident in their country of incorporation.
Name Security Registered address
Wholly owned subsidiaries
1506369 Alberta ULC Common 3500 855-2nd Street SW, Calgary, AB, T2P 4J8, Canada
Action Potential Venture Capital Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Adechsa GmbH (ii) Ordinary c/o PRV Provides Treuhandgesellschaft AG, Dorfstrasse 38, Baar, 6341,
Switzerland
Affymax Research Institute Common Corporation Service Company, 2710 Gateway Oaks Drive, Suite 150N,
Sacramento, California, 95833, United States
Allen & Hanburys Limited (ii) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Allen & Hanburys Pharmaceutical Nigeria Limited Ordinary 24 Abimbola Way, Ilasamaja, Isolo, Lagos, Nigeria
Allen Farmaceutica, S.A. Ordinary Severo Ochoa, 2, Parque Tecnologico de Madrid, Tres Cantos, Madrid,
28760, Spain
Allen Pharmazeutika Gesellschaft m.b.H. Ordinary Wagenseilgasse 3, Euro Plaza, Gebäude I, 4. Stock, Vienna, A-1120,
Austria
Beecham Group p.l.c 20p Shares ‘A’; 5p Shares ‘B’ 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Beecham Pharmaceuticals (Pte) Limited Ordinary 38 Quality Road, Jurong Industrial Estate, Jurong, 618809, Singapore
Beecham Portuguesa-Produtos Farmaceuticos e Quimicos, Lda Ordinary Quota Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, Alges,
1495-131, Portugal
Beecham S.A. (ii) Ordinary Parc de la Noire Epine, Avenue Fleming 20, 1300 Wavre, Belgium
Biovesta Ilaçlari Ltd. Sti. (ii) Nominative Büyükdere Caddesi No. 173, 1.Levent Plaza B Blok, 1.Levent, Istanbul,
34394, Turkey
Cascan GmbH & Co. KG Partnership Capital Prinzregentenplatz 9, D-81675, Munich, Germany
Castleton Investment Ltd (in liquidation) Ordinary c/o DTOS, 19 Cybercity, 10th Floor Standard Chartered Tower, Ebene,
Mauritius
Cellzome GmbH Ordinary Meyerhofstrasse 1, Heidelberg, 69117, Germany
Cellzome, Inc. (Merged into GlaxoSmithKline LLC 31 Dec 2020) Common; Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Series A Preferred; Delaware, 19808, United States
Series B Preferred;
Series C-1 Convertible Preferred;
Series C-3 Convertible Preferred
Charles Midgley Limited (ii) Ordinary; 7% Cumulative Preference 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Clarges Pharmaceuticals Trustees Limited (ii) (iv) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Colleen Corporation Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
Corixa Corporation Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
Coulter Pharmaceutical, Inc. (ii) Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
Dealcyber Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Desarrollo Energia Solar Alternativa S.L. Ordinary Severo Ochoa, 2, Parque Tecnologico de Madrid, Tres Cantos, Madrid,
28760, Spain
Duncan Flockhart Australia Pty Limited (ii) (iv) Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia
Etex Farmaceutica Ltda Social Capital Avenue Andres Bello 2687, Piso 19, Las Condes, Santiago, C.P.
7550611, Chile
Fipar (Thailand) Ltd (in liquidation) Ordinary 12th Floor Wave Place, 55 Wireless Road, Lumpini, Pathumwan,
Bangkok, 10330, Thailand
Genelabs Technologies, Inc. Common Corporation Service Company, 2710 Gateway Oaks Drive, Suite 150N,
Sacramento, California, CA, 95833, United States
Glaxo Group Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Glaxo Kabushiki Kaisha (ii) Ordinary 1-8-1 Akasaka Minato-Ku, Tokyo, Japan
Glaxo Laboratories (Nigeria) Limited (ii) Ordinary 82 Marine Road, Apapa, Lagos, Nigeria
Glaxo Laboratories Limited (in liquidation) Ordinary 55 Baker Street, London, W1U 7EU, England
Glaxo New Zealand Pension Plan Trustee Limited Ordinary Level 2 E.2,Generator at GridAKL, 12 Madden Street, Wynyard Quarter,
Auckland 1010, New Zealand
Glaxo Operations UK Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Glaxo Properties BV Ordinary Van Asch van Wijckstraat 55h, 3811 LP, Amersfoort, Netherlands
GSK Annual Report 2020 287Other statutory disclosures continued
Group companies continued
Name Security Registered address
Wholly owned subsidiaries continued
Glaxo Trustees Limited (in liquidation) Ordinary 55 Baker Street, London, W1U 7EU, England
Glaxo Verwaltungs GmbH Ordinary Industriestrasse 32-36, Bad Oldesloe, 23843, Germany
Glaxo Wellcome Australia Pty Ltd (ii) (iv) Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia
Glaxo Wellcome Farmaceutica, Limitada Ordinary Quota Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, Alges,
1495-131, Portugal
Glaxo Wellcome International B.V. (ii) (iii) Ordinary Huis ter Heideweg 62, 3705 LZ, Zeist, Netherlands
Glaxo Wellcome Manufacturing Pte Ltd Ordinary 1 Pioneer Sector 1, Jurong Industrial Estate, Jurong, 628413, Singapore
Glaxo Wellcome Production S.A.S. Ordinary 23 rue François Jacob, 92500, Rueil-Malmaison, France
Glaxo Wellcome Vidhyasom Limited (ii) Ordinary 12th Floor Wave Place, 55 Wireless Road, Lumpini, Pathumwan,
Bangkok, 10330, Thailand
Glaxo Wellcome, S.A. Ordinary Poligono Industrial Allendeduero, Avenida de Extremadura, 3, Aranda de
Duero, Burgos, 09400, Spain
Glaxo, S.A. Ordinary Severo Ochoa, 2, Parque Tecnologico de Madrid, Tres Cantos, Madrid,
28760, Spain
Glaxo-Allenburys (Nigeria) Limited (ii) Ordinary 41 Creek Road, Apapa, Lagos, PMB 1401, Nigeria
Glaxochem Pte Ltd (iii) Ordinary 23 Rochester Park, 139234, Singapore
GlaxoSmithKline – Produtos Farmaceuticos, Limitada Ordinary Quota Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, Alges,
1495-131, Portugal
GlaxoSmithKline (Cambodia) Co., Ltd. (in liquidation) Ordinary 5th Floor DKSH Building, No. 797 Preah Monivong Boulevard (Corner of
Street 484), Sangkat Phsar Deum Thakov, Khan Chamkarmon, Phnom
Penh, Cambodia
GlaxoSmithKline (China) Investment Co Ltd Ordinary Room 901, 902, 903, 905, 908, 909 and 910, Unit 901, Floor 9, No.56
Mid 4th East Ring Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing, China
GlaxoSmithKline (China) R&D Company Limited Equity F1-3, No. 18 building, 999 Huanke Road, Pilot Free Trade Zone,
Shanghai, 201210, China
GlaxoSmithKline (Cyprus) Limited Ordinary Arch. Makariou III, 2-4, Capital Center, 9th Floor, Nicosia, P.C. 1505,
Cyprus
GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) S.R.L. Ordinary 1-5 Costache Negri Street, Opera Center One, 5th and 6th floors, Zone
1, District 5, Bucharest, Romania
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited Ordinary 12 Riverwalk Citywest Business Campus, Dublin, 24, Ireland
GlaxoSmithKline (Israel) Ltd Ordinary 25 Basel Street, PO Box 10283, Petach-Tikva, 49002, Israel
GlaxoSmithKline (Malta) Limited Ordinary 1, First Floor, De La Cruz Avenue, Qormi, QRM2458, Malta
GlaxoSmithKline (Private) Limited (ii) Ordinary Unit 3, 20 Anthony Road, Msasa, Harare, Zimbabwe
GlaxoSmithKline (Thailand) Limited Ordinary 12th Floor Wave Place, 55 Wireless Road, Lumpini, Pathumwan,
Bangkok, 10330, Thailand
GlaxoSmithKline AB Ordinary Hemvarnsg. 9, Solna, 171 54, Sweden
GlaxoSmithKline AG Ordinary Talstrasse 3-5, 3053 Muenchenbuchsee, Switzerland
GlaxoSmithKline Angola Unipessoal Limitada (iv) Quotas Luanda, Bairro Petrangol, Estrada de Cacuaco n° 288, Angola
GlaxoSmithKline Argentina S.A. Ordinary Tucumán 1, piso 4, Buenos Aires, C1049AAA, Argentina
GlaxoSmithKline AS Ordinary Drammensveien 288, 0283 Oslo, Norway
GlaxoSmithKline Asia Pvt. Limited Equity Patiala Road, Nabha 147201, Dist Patiala, Punjab, India
GlaxoSmithKline Australia Pty Ltd Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia
GlaxoSmithKline B.V. Ordinary Van Asch van, Wijckstraat 55h, 3811 LP Amersfoort, The Netherlands,
Netherlands
GlaxoSmithKline Beteiligungs GmbH Ordinary Prinzregentenplatz 9, Munchen, 81675, Germany
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals (Shanghai) Ltd. Ordinary 277 Niudun Road, Pilot Free Trade Zone, Shanhai, China
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals Kft. Ordinary 2100 Gödöllõ, Homoki Nagy István utca 1, Hungary
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals S.A.S. Ordinary 637 Rue des Aulnois, Saint-Amand Les Eaux, 59230, France
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals SA Ordinary; Preference Rue de l'Institut 89, B-1330 Rixensart, Belgium
GlaxoSmithKline Brasil Limitada Quotas Estrada dos Bandeirantes, 8464, Rio de Janeiro, 22783-110, Brazil
GlaxoSmithKline Capital Inc. Common Wilmington Trust SP Services Inc., 1105 North Market Street, Suite 1300,
Wilmington, Delaware, 19801, United States
GlaxoSmithKline Capital plc Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Caribbean Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Chile Farmaceutica Limitada Social Capital Avenue Andres Bello No. 2687, Piso 19, Las Condes, Santiago, C.P.
7550611, Chile
GlaxoSmithKline Colombia S.A. Ordinary Avenida El Dorado, #69B-45/Piso 9, Bogota, Colombia
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Holdings Limited (i) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Investments (Ireland) Ordinary Knockbrack, Dungarvan, Co Waterford, X35 RY76, Ireland
Limited (iii) (in liquidation)
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Ireland IP Limited (iii) Ordinary Knockbrack, Dungarvan, Co Waterford, X35 RY76, Ireland
(in liquidation)
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Holding B.V. (ii) Ordinary Van Asch van Wijckstraat 55h, 3811 LP, Amersfoort, Netherlands
288 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Other statutory disclosures continued
Group companies continued
Name Security Registered address
Wholly owned subsidiaries continued
GlaxoSmithKline d.o.o Quotas Zmja od Bosne broj 7-7a, Sarajevo, 71000, Bosnia and Herzegovina
GlaxoSmithKline d.o.o. Equity capital Ulica Damira Tomljanovica Gavrana 15, Zagreb, Croatia
GlaxoSmithKline doo Beograd Ordinary Omladinskih brigada 88, New Belgrade, City of Belgrade, 11070, Serbia
GlaxoSmithKline Ecuador S.A. Ordinary Av 10 De Agosto N36-239, y Naciones Unidas, Edificio
Electroectuatoriana, 2do piso, Quito, Ecuador
GlaxoSmithKline Eesti OU Ordinary Lõõtsa 8a, Tallinn, 11415, Estonia
GlaxoSmithKline El Salvador S.A. de C.V. Ordinary Municipio de San Salvador, Departamento de San Salvador, El Salvador
GlaxoSmithKline EOOD Ordinary 115 G Tsarigradsko Shose Blvd., floor 9, Mladost Region, Sofia, 1784,
Bulgaria
GlaxoSmithKline Export Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Export Panama S.A. Ordinary Panama City, Republic of Panama, Panama
GlaxoSmithKline Far East B.V. Ordinary Van Asch van Wijckstraat 55h, 3811 LP, Amersfoort, Netherlands
GlaxoSmithKline Finance plc Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline GmbH & Co. KG Partnership Capital Prinzregentenplatz 9, Munchen, 81675, Germany
GlaxoSmithKline Guatemala S.A. Ordinary 3ra. Av. 13-78 Zona 10, Torre Citibank, Nivel 8, Guatemala City,
Guatemala
GlaxoSmithKline Holding AS Ordinary Drammensveien 288, 0283 Oslo, Norway
GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (Americas) Inc. Common Wilmington Trust SP Services Inc., 1105 North Market Street, Suite 1300,
Wilmington, Delaware, 19801, United States
GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (Ireland) Limited Ordinary; Deferred 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (One) Limited (i) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Holdings Limited (i) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Holdings Pty Ltd Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia
GlaxoSmithKline Honduras S.A. Ordinary Tegucigalpa, MDC, Honduras
GlaxoSmithKline IHC Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Ilaclari Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S. Nominative Büyükdere Caddesi No. 173, 1.Levent Plaza B Blok, 1.Levent, Istanbul,
34394, Turkey
GlaxoSmithKline Inc. Class A Common; Class C Preference 7333 Mississauga Road North, Mississauga, ON, L5N 6L4, Canada
GlaxoSmithKline Insurance Ltd. Ordinary 19 Par-La-Ville Road, Hamilton, HM11, Bermuda
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property (No.2) Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property Development Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property Holdings Limited A Ordinary; B Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property Limited Ordinary; Deferred 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property Management Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Investigación y Desarrollo, S.L. Ordinary Severo Ochoa 2 Parque Tecnológico de Madrid, Tres Cantos, Madrid,
28760, Spain
GlaxoSmithKline Investment Holdings Limited (In liquidation) Ordinary 55 Baker Street, London, W1U 7EU, England
GlaxoSmithKline Investment Services Limited (In liquidation) Ordinary 55 Baker Street, London, W1U 7EU, England
GlaxoSmithKline Investments (Ireland) Limited (iii) (in liquidation) Ordinary 12 Riverwalk Citywest Business Campus, Dublin, 24 Ireland
GlaxoSmithKline Investments Pty Ltd Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia
GlaxoSmithKline K.K. Ordinary 1-8-1 Akasaka Minato-Ku, Tokyo, Japan
GlaxoSmithKline Korea Limited Ordinary 9F LS Yongsan Tower 92, Hangangdae-ro Yongsan-gu, Seoul, 04386,
Republic of Korea
GlaxoSmithKline Latin America, S.A. Ordinary Panama City, Republic of Panama, Panama
GlaxoSmithKline Latvia SIA Ordinary Duntes iela 3, Riga, Latvia
GlaxoSmithKline Lietuva UAB Ordinary Ukmerges st. 120, Vilnius, LT-08105, Lithuania
GlaxoSmithKline Limited Ordinary 23/F., Tower 6, The Gateway, 9 Canton Road, Tsimshatsui, Kowloon,
Hong Kong
GlaxoSmithKline LLC LLC Interests Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
GlaxoSmithKline Manufacturing SpA Ordinary Via Alessandro Fleming 2, Verona, 37135, Italy
GlaxoSmithKline Maroc S.A. Ordinary 42-44 Angle Bd, Rachidi et Abou Hamed El Glaza, Casablanca, Morocco
GlaxoSmithKline Medical and Healthcare Products Limited Ordinary H-1124, Csorsz utca 43, Budapest, Hungary
GlaxoSmithKline Mercury Limited (i) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Mexico S.A. de C.V. Ordinary A; Ordinary B Calzada, Mexico-Xochimilco 4900, Colonia San Lorenzo, Huipulco,
Delegacion Tlalpan, 14370, Mexico
GlaxoSmithKline NZ Limited Ordinary Level 2 E.2, 12 Madden Street, Wynyard Quarter, Auckland 1010,
New Zealand
GlaxoSmithKline Oy Ordinary Piispansilta 9A, P.O. Box 24, Espoo, FIN-02230, Finland
GlaxoSmithKline Peru S.A. Ordinary Av. Javier Prado Oeste, 995, San Isidro, Lima 27, Peru
GlaxoSmithKline Pharma A/S Ordinary Nykaer 68, Brondby, DK-2605, Denmark
GSK Annual Report 2020 289Other statutory disclosures continued
Group companies continued
Name Security Registered address
Wholly owned subsidiaries continued
GlaxoSmithKline Pharma GmbH Ordinary Wagenseilgasse 3, Euro Plaza, Gebäude I, 4. Stock, Vienna, A-1120,
Austria
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceutical Kenya Limited Ordinary Likoni Road, Nairobi, 78392 - 00507, Kenya
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceutical Nigeria Limited Ordinary 1 Industrial Avenue, Ilupeju, Ikeja, Lagos, PM B 21218, Nigeria
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceutical Sdn Bhd Ordinary Level 6, Quill 9, 112, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, 46300 Petaling Jaya,
Selangor, Malaysia
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals (Pvt) Ltd Ordinary 121 Galle Road, Kaldemulla, Moratuwa, Sri Lanka
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Costa Rica S.A Ordinary 300 metros al este de la Rotonda de la Betania, Mercedes de Montes de
Oca, Sabanilla, Montes de Oca, San Jose, Costa Rica
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals S.A. Ordinary A; Ordinary B; Ul. Grunwaldzka 189, Poznan, 60-322, Poland
Ordinary C; Ordinary D
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals SA Ordinary Site Apollo, Avenue Pascal 2-4-6, Wavre, 1300, Belgium
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Ukraine LLC Chartered Capital Pavla Tychyny avenue, 1-V, Kiev, 02152, Ukraine
GlaxoSmithKline Pte Ltd Ordinary 23 Rochester Park, 139234, Singapore
GlaxoSmithKline Puerto Rico, Inc. Common The Prentice-Hall Corporation System, Puerto Rico, Inc., c/o Fast
Solutions, LLC, 252 Ponce de Leon Avenue, Floor 20, San Juan, 00918,
Puerto Rico
GlaxoSmithKline Republica Dominicana S.A. Ordinary Blue Mall Tower, Floor 23 Ave., Winston Churchill 95, Santo Domingo,
Dominican Republic
GlaxoSmithKline Research & Development Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline S.A. Ordinary Severo Ochoa, 2, Parque Tecnologico de Madrid, Tres Cantos, Madrid,
28760, Spain
GlaxoSmithKline S.p.A. Ordinary Viale dell’Agricoltura 7, Verona, 37135, Italy
GlaxoSmithKline s.r.o. Ordinary Hvezdova 1734/2c, Prague, 4 140 00, Czech Republic
GlaxoSmithKline Services GmbH & Co. KG Partnership Capital Prinzregentenplatz 9, Munchen, 81675, Germany
GlaxoSmithKline Services Inc. (ii) Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
GlaxoSmithKline Services Unlimited (i) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Single Member A.E.B.E. Ordinary 266 Kifissias Avenue, Halandri, Athens, 152 32, Greece
GlaxoSmithKline SL LLC LLC Interests Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
GlaxoSmithKline SL LP (ii) (viii) Partnership 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Slovakia s.r.o. Ordinary Galvaniho 7/A, Bratislava, 821 04, Slovakia
GlaxoSmithKline South Africa (Pty) Limited Ordinary Flushing Meadows Building, The Campus, 57 Sloane Street, Bryanston
2021, South Africa
GlaxoSmithKline Trading Ordinary Leningradskiy Prospect 37A, Building 4, Floor 3, Premises XV, Room 1,
Moscow, 125167, Russian Federation
GlaxoSmithKline Trading Services Limited (iii) Ordinary 12 Riverwalk Citywest Business Campus, Dublin, 24, Ireland
GlaxoSmithKline Tunisia S.A.R.L. Ordinary Immeuble Les Quatres R, Rue du Lac Lochness, Berges du Lac, Tunis,
Tunisia
GlaxoSmithKline UK Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Uruguay S.A. Registered shares provisory stock Salto 1105, CP 11.200 Montevideo, Uruguay
GlaxoSmithKline US Trading Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Venezuela C.A. Ordinary Urbanizacion La Trinidad, Calle luis De Camoems, Edif No 115-117
Apatado Posta, Caracas, 1010, Venezuela
GlaxoSmithKline Vietnam Limited Liability Company (ii) (iv) Equity capital The Metropolitan, 235 Dong Khoi Street, District 1, 7th Floor Unit 701,
Ho Chi Minh City, Viet Nam
GlycoVaxyn AG (iv) Common; Preferred A; Grabenstrasse 3, 8952 Schlieren, Switzerland
Preferred B; Preferred C
Groupe GlaxoSmithKline S.A.S. Ordinary 23 Rue françois Jacob, 92500, Rueil-Malmaison, France
GSK Australia NVD Pty Ltd (ii) (iv) Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia
GSK Bangladesh Private Limited Ordinary Sweden Tower, 1, Harinnachala, Konabari, Gazipur, Bangladesh
GSK Biopharma Argentina S.A. Nominative non endorseable Tucumán 1, piso 4, Buenos Aires, C1049AAA, Argentina
ordinary shares
GSK Business Service Centre Sdn Bhd Ordinary Level 6, Quill 9, 112 Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Petaling Jaya, Selangor,
46300, Malaysia
GSK Capital B.V. (Incorporated on 01/02/2021) (iii) (ix) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GSK Capital K.K. Ordinary 1-8-1 Akasaka Minato-Ku, Tokyo, Japan
GSK Commercial Sp. z o.o. Ordinary ul. Rzymowskiego 53, Warsaw, 02-697, Poland
GSK d.o.o., Ljubljana Ordinary Ameriška ulica 8,Ljubljana, 1000, Slovenia
GSK Enterprise Management Co, Ltd Ordinary Floor 4, 18 Lane 999 Huanke Road, No. 1358 Zhongke Road, Shanghai,
China
GSK Equity Investments, Limited Unit Corporation Service Company, 2595 Interstate Drive, Suite 103,
Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, PA, 17110, United States
290 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Other statutory disclosures continued
Group companies continued
Name Security Registered address
Wholly owned subsidiaries continued
GSK Finance (No 2) Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GSK Finance (No.3) plc Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GSK India Global Services Private Limited Equity shares Prestige Trade Tower, 4, 5, 6th Floor, Palace Road, Sampangiramnagar,
Bangalore, Karnataka, 560001, India
GSK Kazakhstan LLP Participation/Participating Interest 23, Furmanov Street, Almaty, Medeu District, 050059, Kazakhstan
GSK Pharma Vietnam Company Limited Chartered Capital Unit 702/703 7th Floor, The Metropolitan Tower, 235 Dong Khoi Street,
Ben Nghe Ward, District 1, Ho Chi Minh, Viet Nam
GSK Pharmaceutical Trading SA (ii) (iv) Ordinary 1-5 Costache Negri Street, Opera Center One, 5th floor, discussions
room 01, District 5, Bucharest, Romania
GSK Services Sp z o.o. Ordinary Ul. Grunwaldzka 189, Poznan, 60-322, Poland
GSK Vaccines BV Ordinary Hullenbergweg 85, Amsterdam, 1101 CL, Netherlands
GSK Vaccines GmbH Ordinary Emil-von-Behring-Str.76, 35041 Marburg, Germany
GSK Vaccines Institute for Global Health S.r.l. Quotas Via Fiorentina 1, Siena, 53100, Italy
GSK Vaccines S.r.l. Quotas Via Fiorentina 1, Siena, 53100, Italy
GSK Vaccines Vertriebs GmbH (ii) Ordinary Rudolf-Diesel-Ring 27, Holzkirchen, 83607, Germany
HGS France S.a.r.l. (ii) (iv) Ordinary 52-54, Rue de la Belle Feuille, Boulogne-Billancourt, 92100, France
Horlicks Limited Ordinary; Preference 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Human Genome Sciences, Inc. Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
ID Biomedical Corporation of Quebec Common 2323, boul. Du Parc Technologique, Québec, G1P 4R8, Canada
Instituto Luso Farmaco, Limitada (ii) Ordinary Quota Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, Alges,
1495-131, Portugal
InterPharma Dienstleistungen GmbH (ii) Quotas Wagenseilgasse 3, Euro Plaza, Gebäude I, 4. Stock, Vienna, A-1120,
Austria
J&J Technologies, LC LLC Interests Corporation Service Company, 100 Shockoe Slip, 2nd Floor, Richmond,
VA 23219, United States
Laboratoire GlaxoSmithKline Ordinary 23 rue François Jacob, 92500, Rueil-Malmaison, France
Laboratoire Pharmaceutique Algérien LPA Production SPA Ordinary Zone Industrielle Est, Boudouaou, Boumerdes, Algeria
Laboratoire Pharmaceutique Algérien SPA Ordinary Zone Industrielle Est, Boudouaou, Boumerdes, Algeria
Laboratoires Paucourt (ii) Ordinary 23 rue François Jacob, 92500, Rueil-Malmaison, France
Laboratoires Saint-Germain (ii) Ordinary 23 rue François Jacob, 92500, Rueil-Malmaison, France
Laboratorios Dermatologicos Darier, S.A de C.V. "Ordinary A; Calzada Mexico Xochimilco, 4900 San Lorenzo Huipulco, District Federal
Ordinary B" Mexico, 14370, Mexico
Laboratorios Farmaceuticos Stiefel (Portugal) LTDA (ii) Ordinary Quota Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, Alges,
1495-131, Portugal
Laboratorios Stiefel de Venezuela SA Ordinary Calle Luis de Camoens, Edificio GlaxoSmithKline, No. 115-117, Urb. La
Trinidad, Caracas, Venezuela
Laboratorios Stiefel Ltda. Ordinary Rua Professor Joao Cavalheiro Salem, no.1077, Bairro de Bonsucesso,
Municipality of Guarulhos, Sao Paulo, CEP 07243-580, Brazil
Laboratorios Wellcome De Portugal Limitada (ii) Ordinary Quota Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, Alges,
1495-131, Portugal
Mixis Genetics Limited (In liquidation) Ordinary; Ordinary Euro 55 Baker Street, London, W1U 7EU, England
Montrose Pharma Company Limited (ii) (iv) Ordinary Quota H-1124, Csorsz utca 43, Budapest, Hungary
Okairos AG (in liquidation) Common; Preferred A; Preferred B c/o OBC Suisse AG, Aeschenvorstadt 71, 4051, Basel, Switzerland
Penn Labs Inc. (ii) Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
S.R. One International B.V. Ordinary Van Asch van Wijckstraat 55h, 3811 LP, Amersfoort, Netherlands
Setfirst Limited Ordinary; Preference 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Sitari Pharma, Inc. Common Stock Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, DE, 19808, United States
Smith Kline & French Portuguesa-Produtos Farmaceuticos, Ordinary Quota Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, Alges,
LDA (ii) 1495-131, Portugal
SmithKline Beecham (Bangladesh) Private Limited (ii) Ordinary 14, Topkhana Road, Segunbagicha, Dhaka 1000, Bangladesh
SmithKline Beecham (Cork) Limited Ordinary 12 Riverwalk Citywest Business Campus, Dublin, 24, Ireland
SmithKline Beecham (Manufacturing) Limited Ordinary 12 Riverwalk Citywest Business Campus, Dublin, 24, Ireland
SmithKline Beecham (SWG) Limited (In liquidation) Ordinary 55 Baker Street London W1U 7EU, England
SmithKline Beecham Biologicals US Partnership Partnership Interest Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
SmithKline Beecham Egypt L.L.C. Quotas Amoun Street, El Salam City, Cairo, Egypt
SmithKline Beecham Farma, S.A. Ordinary Severo Ochoa, 2, Parque Tecnologico de Madrid, Tres Cantos, Madrid,
28760, Spain
SmithKline Beecham Inter-American Corporation (ii) Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
GSK Annual Report 2020 291Other statutory disclosures continued
Group companies continued
Name Security Registered address
Wholly owned subsidiaries continued
SmithKline Beecham Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
SmithKline Beecham Overseas Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
SmithKline Beecham Pension Plan Trustee Limited (ii) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
SmithKline Beecham Pension Trustees Limited (in liquidation) Ordinary 55 Baker Street, London, W1U 7EU, England
SmithKline Beecham Pharma GmbH & Co KG Partnership Capital Prinzregentenplatz 9, Munchen, 81675, Germany
SmithKline Beecham Pharma Verwaltungs GmbH Ordinary Prinzregentenplatz 9, Munchen, 81675, Germany
SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals (Pty) Limited (ii) (iv) Ordinary Flushing Meadows Building, The Campus, 57 Sloane Street, Bryanston
2021, South Africa
SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals Co. Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
SmithKline Beecham Port Louis Limited (in liquidation) Ordinary c/o CIM Corporate Services Ltd, Les Cascades Building, Edith Cavell
Street, Port Louis, Mauritius
SmithKline Beecham Senior Executive Pension Plan Trustee Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Limited (ii)
Stiefel Distributors (Ireland) Limited (in liquidation) Ordinary Finisklin Business Park, Sligo, Ireland
Stiefel Dominicana, S.R.L. (ii) (iv) Ordinary Ave. Lope de Vega #29, Torre NovoCentro, Local 406, Santo Domingo,
Dominican Republic
Stiefel Farma, S.A. Ordinary Severo Ochoa, 2, Parque Tecnologico de Madrid, Tres Cantos, Madrid,
28760, Spain
Stiefel GmbH & Co. KG Partnership Capital Prinzregentenplatz 9, Munchen, 81675, Germany
Stiefel India Private Limited Equity 401-402, A, Wing, 4th Floor,Floral Deck Plaza, Opp Rolta Bhavan,
Central MIDC Road, Mumbai, Andheri (E), 400093, India
Stiefel Laboratories (Maidenhead) Ltd (In liquidation) Ordinary 55 Baker Street, London, W1U 7EU, England
Stiefel Laboratories Legacy (Ireland) Limited Ordinary Unit 2 Building 2500, Avenue 2000 Cork Airport Business Park, Cork,
Ireland
Stiefel Laboratories Limited (ii) Ordinary Eurasia Headquarters, Concorde Road, Maidenhead, Berkshire, SL6 4BY,
England
Stiefel Laboratories Pte Limited (ii) Ordinary 1 Pioneer, Sector 1, 62841, Singapore
Stiefel Laboratories, Inc. Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
Stiefel Maroc SARL (ii) (iv) Ordinary 275 Boulevard Zerktouni, Casablanca, Morocco
Stiefel Research (Australia) Holdings Pty Ltd Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia
Stiefel Research Australia Pty Ltd Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia
Stiefel West Coast LLC LLC Interests Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
Strebor Inc. Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
Tempero Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Series A Preference; Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Series B Preference; Common Delaware, 19808, United States
Tesaro Bio Austria GmbH in Liqu (in liquidation) Common Fleischmarkt 1/6/12, Vienna, 1010, Austria
Tesaro Bio GmbH Ordinary Poststrasse 6, 6300 Zug, Switzerland
Tesaro Bio Netherlands B.V Shares Joop Geesinkweg 901, 1114 AB, Amsterdam-Duivendrecht, Netherlands
Tesaro Bio Spain S.L.U. (iv) Shares/Participation Quota Severo Ochoa 2 Parque Tecnológico de Madrid, Tres Cantos, Madrid,
28760, Spain
Tesaro Bio Sweden AB Common c/o BDO Malardalen AB, Skatt Box 24193, Stockholm, 104 51, Sweden
Tesaro Development Limited Shares Clarendon House, 2 Church Street, Hamilton HM11, Bermuda
Tesaro, Inc. Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, DE, 19808, United States
The Sydney Ross Co. (ii) Common Corporation Service Company, Princeton South Corporate Center, Suite
160, 100 Charles Ewing Blvd, Ewing, New Jersey, 08628, United States
The Wellcome Foundation Investment Company Limited Limited by guarantee 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
(Active proposal to strike off)
UCB Pharma Asia Pacific Sdn Bhd (ii) Ordinary 12th Floor, Menara Symphony, No.5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen
13, Petaling Jaya, 46200, Malaysia
Wellcome Consumer Healthcare Limited (ii) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Wellcome Consumer Products Limited (ii) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Wellcome Developments Pty Ltd (ii) (iv) Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia
Wellcome Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Wellcome Operations Pty Ltd (ii) (iv) Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia
GSK Pharma Vietnam Company Limited Chartered Capital Unit 702/703 7th Floor, The Metropolitan Tower, 235 Dong Khoi Street,
Ben Nghe Ward, District 1, Ho Chi Minh, Viet Nam
GlaxoSmithKline Limited Ordinary Likoni Road; PO Box 78392; Nairobi; Kenya
GSK Consumer Healthcare Export Limited 980, Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
292 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Other statutory disclosures continued
Group companies continued
Effective %
Name Security Ownership Registered address
Subsidiaries where the effective interest is less than 100%
Alacer Corp. Common 68 Corporate Service Company d/b/a CSC-Lawyers Incorp., 2710 Gateway
Oaks Drive, Suite 150N, Sacramento, California, 95833-3505, United
States
Amoun Pharmaceutical Industries Co. S.A.E. New Monetary Shares 90.7 El Salam City 11491, PO Box 3001, Cairo, Egypt
(99.5%)
Beecham Enterprises Inc. (ii) Common 59.8 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
Biddle Sawyer Limited Equity 75 252 Dr Annie Besant Road, Mumbai, 400030, India
Block Drug Company, Inc. Common 68 Corporation Service Company, Princeton South Corporate Center, Suite
160, 100 Charles Ewing Blvd, Ewing, New Jersey, 08628, United States
Block Drug Corporation (ii) Common 68 Corporation Service Company, Princeton South Corporate Center, Suite
160, 100 Charles Ewing Blvd, Ewing, New Jersey, 08628, United States
British Pharma Group Limited (i) Captial (50%) 50 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Consumer Healthcare Holdings Limited Ordinary 68 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Consumer Healthcare Intermediate Holdings Limited Ordinary 68 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Duncan Consumer Healthcare Philippines Inc Common 68 23rd Floor, The Finance Centre, 26th Street Corner 9th Avenue, Bonifacio
Global City, Taguig City, 1634, Philippines
Duncan Pharmaceuticals Philippines Inc. Common 92.5 23rd Floor, The Finance Centre, 26th Street Corner 9th Avenue, Bonifacio
Global City, Taguig City, 1634, Philippines
Ex-Lax, Inc. Common 68 The Prentice Hall Corporation System, Puerto Rico, Inc., c/o Fast
Solutions, LLC, Citi Tower, 252 Ponce de Leon Avenue, Floor 20, San
Juan, 00918, Puerto Rico
Ferrosan ApS A Shares; B Shares 68 Nykaer 68, Brondby, DK-2605, Denmark
Ferrosan International ApS Ordinary 68 Nykaer 68, Brondby, DK-2605, Denmark
Ferrosan S.R.L. Registered capital 68 178/C Calea Turzii, Cluj-Napoca, Cluj County, Romania
Galvani Bioelectronics Inc. Common 55 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
Galvani Bioelectronics Limited A Ordinary; B Ordinary (0%) 55 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Glaxo Saudi Arabia Limited Ordinary 75 PO Box 22617, Area No 56 to 73, Warehouse City, First Stage Al
Khomrah, Jeddah 21416, Saudi Arabia
Glaxo Wellcome Ceylon Limited Ordinary; Ordinary B 67.8 121 Galle Road, Kaldemulla, Moratuwa, Sri Lanka
GlaxoSmithKline (Tianjin) Co. Ltd Ordinary 90 No. 65, the Fifth Avenue, Tai Feng Industrial Park, Tianjin Economic and
Technolog, Tianjin, 300457, China
GlaxoSmithKline Algérie S.P.A. Ordinary 99.99 Zone Industrielle Est, Boudouaou, Wilaya de Boumerdes, Algeria
GlaxoSmithKline Brasil Produtos para Consumo e Saude Quotas 68 Av das Americas, 3500, 4th floor, rooms 407-420, Rio de Janeiro, RJ,
Ltda 22621-000, Brazil
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (China) Co. Ltd Ordinary 68 Floor 8, 168 Xizangzhong Road, Huangpu District, Shanghai, China
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (Hong Kong) Ordinary 68 23/F., Tower 6, The Gateway, 9 Canton Road, Tsimshatsui, Kowloon,
Limited Hong Kong
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (Ireland) Limited Ordinary 68 12 Riverwalk Citywest Business Campus, Dublin, 24, Ireland
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (Overseas) Limited Ordinary 68 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (Thailand) Limited Ordinary 68 13th Floor, Unit 13.05 and 13.06 Wave Place, 55 Wireless Road,
Lumpini, Pathumwan, Bangkok, 10330, Thailand
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (UK) IP Limited (iv) Ordinary 68 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (UK) Trading Ordinary 68 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Limited
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (US) IP LLC LLC Interests 68 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare A/S Ordinary 68 Nykaer 68, Brondby, DK-2605, Denmark
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare AB (v) Ordinary 68 Nykaer 68, Brondby, DK-2605, Denmark
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Australia Pty ltd Ordinary 68 82 Hughes Avenue, Ermington, NSW, 2115, Australia
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare B.V. Ordinary 68 Van Asch van Wijckstraat 55G, Amersfoort, 3811 LP, Netherlands
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Colombia SAS Ordinary 68 Carrera 7 No. 113 - 43 Piso 4, Colombia
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Czech Republic s.r.o. Ordinary 68 Hvezdova 1734/2c, Prague, 4 140 00, Czech Republic
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Finance Limited Ordinary 68 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Finance No.2 Ordinary 68 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Limited
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Finland Oy Ordinary 68 Piispansilta 9A, Fin-02230, Espoo, Finland
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare GmbH Ordinary 68 Wagenseilgasse 3, Euro Plaza, Gebäude I, 4. Stock, Vienna, A-1120,
Austria
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare GmbH & Co. KG Partnership Capital 68 Barthstr. 4, München, 80339, Germany
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Hellas Single Ordinary 68 274 Kifissias Avenue Halandri, Athens, 152 32, Greece
Member Societe Anonyme
GSK Annual Report 2020 293Other statutory disclosures continued
Group companies continued
Effective %
Name Security Ownership Registered address
Subsidiaries where the effective interest is less than 100% continued
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Holdings (No.2) A; B(0%); Preference 68 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Limited
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Holdings (US) LLC LLC Interests 68 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Investments Ordinary 68 Knockbrack, Dungarvan, Co Waterford, X35 RY76, Ireland
(Ireland) (No 3) Limited (iii) (In liquidation)
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Investments Ordinary 68 Knockbrack, Dungarvan, Co Waterford, X35 RY76, Ireland
(Ireland) (No.2) Unlimited Company (iii) (In liquidation)
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Japan K.K. Ordinary 68 1-8-1 Akasaka Minato-Ku, Tokyo, Japan
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Korea Co., Ltd. Ordinary 68 9F LS Yongsan Tower, 92, Hangang-daero, Yongsan-gu, Seoul, 04386,
Korea, Republic of
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare L.L.C. LLC Interests 68 Corporation Service Company, 2595 Interstate Drive Suite 103,
Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, 17110, United States
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Mexico, Ordinary 68 Calzada Mexico-Xochimilco 4900, Colonia San Lorenzo Huipulco,
S. De R.L. de C.V. Delegacion Tlalpan, Mexico, D.F. 14370, Mexico
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare New Zealand ULC Ordinary 68 Level 11, Zurich House, 21 Queen Street, Auckland, 1010, New Zealand
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Norway AS Ordinary 68 Drammensveien 288, 1326 Lysaker, Norway
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Pakistan Limited Ordinary (85.8%) 58.3 The Sykes Building, 35 Dockyard Road, West Wharf, Karachi, 74000,
Pakistan
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Philippines Inc Common 68 23rd Floor, The Finance Centre, 26th Street Corner 9th Avenue, Bonifacio
Global City, Taguig City, 1634, Philippines
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Pte. Ltd. Ordinary 68 23 Rochester Park, 139234, Singapore
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare S.A. Ordinary 68 Site Apollo, Avenue Pascal 2-4-6, Wavre, 1300, Belgium
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare S.A. Ordinary 68 Severo Ochoa, 2, Parque Tecnologico de Madrid, Tres Cantos, Madrid,
28760, Spain
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare S.r.l Ordinary 68 Via Zambeletti snc,Baranzate, Milan, 20021, Italy
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Saudi Limited Ordinary 68 603 Salamah Tower 6th Floor, Madinah Road Al-Salamah District Jeddah
21425, Saudi Arabia
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Sdn. Bhd. Ordinary 68 Lot 89, Jalan Enggang, Ampang/Ulu Kelang Industrial Estate, 6800
Ampang, Selangor, Darul Ehsan, Malaysia
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Slovakia s. r. o. Ownership interest 68 Galvaniho 7/A, Bratislava, 821 04, Slovakia
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare South Africa Ordinary 68 Flushing Meadows Building, The Campus, 57 Sloane Street, Bryanston
(Pty) Ltd 2021, South Africa
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Sp.z.o.o. Ordinary 68 Ul. Grunwaldzka 189, Poznan, 60-322, Poland
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare SRL Ordinary 68 1-5 Costache Negri Street, Opera Center One, 6th floor (Zone 2), District
5, Bucharest, Romania
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare ULC / A Class Preference; 68 595 Burrard Street, Suite 2600 Three Bentall Centre, P.O. Box 49314,
GlaxoSmithKline Soins De Sante Aux Consommateurs SRI Common Vancouver, BC V7X 1L3, Canada
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Vietnam Company Charter Capital 68 Floor 16, Metropolitan, 235 Dong Khoi, Ben Nghe Ward, District 1, Ho
Limited (ii) Chi Minh City, Viet Nam
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare, L.P. Partnership Capital 59.8 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare, Produtos para a Ordinary Quota 68 Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, Alges,
Saude e Higiene, Lda 1495-131, Portugal
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Nigeria plc (vi) Ordinary (46.4%) 46.4 1 Industrial Avenue, Ilupeju, Ikeja, Lagos, PM B 21218, Nigeria
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Private Limited Equity 68 Patiala Road, Nabha 147201, Dist Patiala, Punjab, India
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Trading Services Limited Ordinary 68 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Costa Rica S.A. Ordinary 68 San Jose 300 Este de la Rotonda Betania, Carretera a Sabanilla,
Costa Rica
GlaxoSmithKline Dungarvan Limited Ordinary 68 Knockbrack, Dungarvan, Co Waterford, X35 RY76, Ireland
GlaxoSmithKline Healthcare AO Ordinary 68 Premises III, Room 9, floor 6, Presnenskaya nab. 10, Moscow, 123112,
Russian Federation
GlaxoSmithKline Healthcare GmbH Ordinary 68 Barthstr. 4, München, 80339, Germany
GlaxoSmithKline Healthcare Ukraine O.O.O. Ownership interest 68 Pavla Tychyny avenue, 1-V, Kiev, 02152, Ukraine
GlaxoSmithKline Pakistan Limited Ordinary (82.6%) 82.6 The Sykes Building, 35 Dockyard Road, West Wharf, Karachi, 74000,
Pakistan
GlaxoSmithKline Panama S.A. Ordinary 68 Urbanizacion Industrial Juan D, Calles A Y B, Republic of Panama,
Panama
GlaxoSmithKline Paraguay S.A. Ordinary 68 Oficial Gilberto Aranda 333, Planta Alta casi Salvador del Mundo,
Asuncion, Paraguay
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Limited Equity (75%) 75 252 Dr Annie Besant Road, Mumbai, 400030, India
GlaxoSmithKline Philippines Inc Common 92.5 23rd Floor, The Finance Centre, 26th Street Corner 9th Avenue, Bonifacio
Global City, Taguig City, 1634, Philippines
294 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Other statutory disclosures continued
Group companies continued
Effective %
Name Security Ownership Registered address
Subsidiaries where the effective interest is less than 100% continued
GlaxoSmithKline S.A.E. Ordinary (91.2%) 91.2 Boomerang Office Building – Land No. 46, Zone (J) – 1st District, Town
Center – 5th Tagammoe, New Cairo City, Egypt
GlaxoSmithKline Sante Grand Public SAS Ordinary 68 23 rue François Jacob, 92500, Rueil-Malmaison, France
GlaxoSmithKline Technology (Taizhou) Co., Ltd Ordinary 68 Room 708 in Building D, Phase II of New Drug Innovation Base, Taizhou,
225300, Jiangsu Province, China
GlaxoSmithKline Tuketici Sagligi Anonim Sirketi Nominative 68 Büyükdere Caddesi No. 173, 1.Levent Plaza B Blok, 1.Levent, Istanbul,
34394, Turkey
GlaxoSmithKline-Consumer Hungary Limited Liability Membership 68 H-1124, Csorsz utca 43, Budapest, Hungary
Company
GSK Canada Holding Company Limited Ordinary 68 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GSK CH Kazakhstan LLP Charter Capital 68 32 A Manasa Str., Bostandyk District, Almaty, 050008, Kazakhstan
GSK Consumer Health, Inc. Common 68 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, DE, 19808, United States
GSK Consumer Healthcare Holdings (US) Inc. Common 68 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, DE, 19808, United States
GSK Consumer Healthcare Holdings No. 2 LLC (iii) Unit 68 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, DE, 19808, United States
GSK Consumer Healthcare Israel Ltd (iv) Ordinary 68 25 Basel Street, Petech Tikva 49510, Israel
GSK Consumer Healthcare Levice, s.r.o. Ordinary 68 Priemyselny Park Gena, Ul. E. Sachsa 4-6, 934 01, Levice, Slovakia
GSK Consumer Healthcare S.A. Ordinary 68 Route de I'Etraz, 1197 Prangins, Switzerland
GSK Consumer Healthcare Schweiz AG Ordinary 68 Suurstoffi 14, Rotkreuz, 6343, Switzerland
GSK Consumer Healthcare Services, Inc. Common 68 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
GSK Consumer Healthcare Singapore Pte. Ltd. Ordinary 68 23 Rochester Park, 139234, Singapore
GSK Consumer Healthcare Trinidad and Tobago Limited Ordinary 68 5th Floor Algico Plaza, 91-93 St.Vincent Street, Port of Spain, Trinidad
(Incorporated 20 Jan 2021) and Tobago
GSK New Zealand Holding Company Limited Ordinary 68 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GSK-Gebro Consumer Healthcare GmbH Ordinary (60%) 40.8 Bahnhofbichl 13, 6391 Fieberbrunn, Kitzbühel, Austria
Iodosan S.p.A. Ordinary 68 Via Zambeletti snc,Baranzate, Milan, 20021, Italy
Kuhs GmbH Ordinary 68 Barthstr. 4, München, 80339, Germany
Laboratorios ViiV Healthcare, S.L. Ordinary 78.3 Severo Ochoa, 2, Parque Tecnologico de Madrid, Tres Cantos, Madrid,
28760, Spain
Modern Pharma Trading Company L.L.C. Quotas (98.2%) 98.2 Amoun Street, PO Box 3001, El Salam City, Cairo, 11491, Egypt
N.C.H. – Nutrition Consumer Health Ltd (ii) Ordinary 68 14 Hamephalsim St, Petach Tikva, Israel
P.T. SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals A Shares; B Shares (0%) 99 Jl. Pulobuaran Raya, Kav. III DD/2,3,4, Kawasan Industri Pulogadung,
Jakarta, 13930, Indonesia
P.T. Sterling Products Indonesia A Shares; B Shares 68 Graha Paramita Building, 5th F, Jalan Denpasar Raya Blok D-2, Jakarta,
12940, Indonesia
Panadol GmbH Ordinary 68 Barthstr. 4, München, 80339, Germany
PF Consumer Healthcare 1 LLC Membership Interest 68 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, DE, 19808, United States
PF Consumer Healthcare B.V. Class A; Class B 68 Van Asch van Wijckstraat 55G, 3811 LP Amersfoort, The Netherlands
PF Consumer Healthcare Brazil Importadora e Distribuidora Quota 68 Barueri, at Avenida Ceci, No.1900, Block III, Part 67, Tambore District,
de Medicamentos Ltda Sao Paulo, 06460, Brazil
PF Consumer Healthcare Canada ULC / PF Soins De Common 68 595 Burrard Street, Suite 2600 Three Bentall Centre, P.O. Box 49314,
Sante SRI Vancouver, BC V7X 1L3, Canada
PF Consumer Healthcare Holding B.V. Ordinary 68 Van Asch van Wijckstraat 55G, 3811 LP Amersfoort, The Netherlands
PF Consumer Healthcare Poland sp.z.o.o Ordinary 68 Rzymowskiego 53 street, 02-697 Warsaw, Poland
PF Consumer Healthcare Singapore Pte. Ltd Ordinary 68 23 Rochester Park, 139234, Singapore
PF Consumer Ireland Company Limited Ordinary 68 9 Riverwalk, National Digital Park, Citywest Business Park, Dublin, 24,
Ireland
PF Consumer Taiwan LLC Interests 68 1209 Orange Street, Corporate Trust Center, Wilmington, Delaware,
19808,United States
Pfizer Biotech Corporation Ordinary (55%) 37.4 24F, No.66, Sec. 1, Zhong Xiao W. Rd., Taipei 100, Taiwan
Pfizer Consumer Healthcare AB Ordinary 68 Vetenskapsvagen 10, SE-191 90, Sollentuna, Sweden
Pfizer Consumer Healthcare GmbH Ordinary 68 Linkstrasse 10, 10785, Berlin, Germany
Pfizer Consumer Manufacturing Italy S.r.l. Quota (no stock) 68 90, Via Nettunese, 04011, Aprilia (Prov. di Latin), Italy
Pfizer Laboratories PFE (Pty) Ltd. Common 68 Flushing Meadows Building, The Campus, 57 Sloane, Bryanston 2021,
South Africa
Pfizer PFE Colombia S.A.S Common 68 Carrera 7 No. 113-43 Piso 4, Colombia
PHIVCO Jersey II Limited (iii) (Dissolved 31 Dec 2020) Ordinary 78.3 IFC 5, St Helier, JE1 1ST, Jersey, United Kingdom
PHIVCO Jersey Limited (iii) (Dissolved 31 Dec 2020) Ordinary 78.3 IFC 5, St Helier, JE1 1ST, Jersey, United Kingdom
GSK Annual Report 2020 295Other statutory disclosures continued
Group companies continued
Effective %
Name Security Ownership Registered address
Subsidiaries where the effective interest is less than 100% continued
PHIVCO-1 LLC LLC Interests 78.3 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
PHIVCO-2 LLC LLC Interests 78.3 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
PRISM PCH Limited Voting Shares; Non Voting 68 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Shares
PT Glaxo Wellcome Indonesia A Shares; B Shares (0%) 95 Jl Pulobuaran Raya Kav III DD/, Kawasan Industri Pulogadung, Timur,
Jakarta, 13930, Indonesia
PT GSK Consumer Healthcare Indonesia Ordinary 68 Graha Paramita Building, 5th F, Jalan Denpasar Raya Blok D-2, Kuningan,
JAKARTA SELATAN, 12940, Indonesia
PT. Bina Dentalindo (in liquidation) Ordinary 68 Gedung Graha Ganesha Lantai 3, Jl Raya Bekasi Km 17, No5, Jakarta
Timur 13930, Indonesia
Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare LLC (ii) Common Interests 78.3 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
Sino-American Tianjin Smith Kline & French Laboratories Ordinary (55%) 37.4 Cheng Lin Zhuang Industrial Zone, Dong Li District, Tianjin, 300163,
Ltd China
SmithKline Beecham (Private) Limited Ordinary (99.6%) 67.8 World Trade Center, Level 34, West Tower, Echelon Square, Colombo 1,
Sri Lanka
SmithKline Beecham Research Limited Ordinary 68 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
SmithKline Beecham S.A. Ordinary 68 Ctra de Ajalvir Km 2.500, Alcala de Henares, Madrid, 28806, Spain
SmithKline Beecham-Biomed O.O.O. Participation Interest (97%) 97 Leningradskiy Prospect 37A, Building 4, Floor 2, Premises XIV, Room 42,
Moscow, 125167, Russian Federation
Stafford-Miller (Ireland) Limited Ordinary 68 Clocherane, Youghal Road, Dungarvan, Co. Waterford, Ireland
Stafford-Miller Limited (In liquidation) Ordinary; 68 55 Baker Street, London, W1U 7EU, United Kingdom
Non-Cumulative Non
Redeemable Preference
Sterling Drug (Malaya) Sdn Berhad Ordinary 68 Lot 89, Jalan Enggang,Ampang / Hulu Kelang Industrial Estate, Selangor
Darul Ehsan, 68000 Ampang, Malaysia
Sterling Products International, Incorporated (ii) Common 68 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
Stiefel Consumer Healthcare (UK) Limited Ordinary 68 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Stiefel Egypt LLC (ii) Quota (99%) 99 Amoun Street, PO Box 3001, El Salam City, Cairo, 11491, Egypt
Stiefel Laboratories (Ireland) Limited (iv) Ordinary 68 Finisklin Business Park, County Sligo, Ireland
Treerly Health Co., Ltd Capital Contribution 68 Unit 01A, Room 3901, No 16. East Zhujiang Road, Tianhe District,
Guangzhou City, the PRC, China
ViiV Healthcare (South Africa) (Proprietary) Limited (ii) (iv) Ordinary 78.3 Flushing Meadows Building, The Campus, 57 Sloane Street, Bryanston
2021, South Africa
ViiV HealthCare BV Ordinary 78.3 Van Asch van, Wijckstraat 55h, 3811 LP Amersfoort, The Netherlands,
Netherlands
ViiV Healthcare Company Common 78.3 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
ViiV Healthcare Finance 1 Limited (in liquidation) Ordinary 78.3 55 Baker Street, London, W1U 7EU, England
ViiV Healthcare Finance 2 Limited Ordinary 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
ViiV Healthcare Finance Limited Ordinary; Redeemable 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Preference
ViiV Healthcare GmbH Ordinary 78.3 Prinzregentenplatz 9, Munchen, 81675, Germany
ViiV Healthcare GmbH Ordinary 78.3 Talstrasse 3-5, 3053 Muenchenbuchsee, Switzerland
ViiV Healthcare Hong Kong Limited (ii) Ordinary 78.3 23/F Tower 6, The Gateway, 9 Canton Road, Harbour City, Tsimshatsui,
Kowloon, Hong Kong
ViiV Healthcare K.K. Ordinary 78.3 1-8-1 Akasaka Minato-Ku, Tokyo, Japan
ViiV Healthcare Limited Class A Shares, Deferred; 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Class B Shares (0%);
Class C Shares (0%);
Class D1 (0%);
Class D2 (0%);
Class E 5%
CumulativePreference (0%)
ViiV Healthcare Pty Ltd Ordinary 78.3 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia
ViiV Healthcare Puerto Rico, LLC LLC Interests 78.3 Centro International de Mercadeo, 90 carr. 165 Torre 2, Suite 800,
Guaynabo, 00968, Puerto Rico
ViiV Healthcare S.r.l. Quota 78.3 Viale dell’Agricoltura 7, Verona, 37135, Italy
ViiV Healthcare SAS Ordinary 78.3 23 rue François Jacob, 92500, Rueil-Malmaison, France
ViiV Healthcare sprl Ordinary 78.3 Site Apollo, Avenue Pascal 2-4-6, Wavre, 1300, Belgium
ViiV Healthcare Trading LLC (ii) Participation Interest 78.3 Leningradskiy Prospect 37A, Building 4, Floor 2, Premises XIV, Room 28,
Moscow, 125167, Russian Federation
296 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Other statutory disclosures continued
Group companies continued
Effective %
Name Security Ownership Registered address
Subsidiaries where the effective interest is less than 100% continued
ViiV Healthcare Trading Services UK Limited Ordinary 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
ViiV Healthcare UK (No.2) Limited (in liquidation) Ordinary 78.3 IFC 5, St Helier, JE1 1ST, Jersey, United Kingdom
ViiV Healthcare UK (No.3) Limited Ordinary 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
ViiV Healthcare UK (No.4) Limited Ordinary 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
ViiV Healthcare UK (No.5) Limited Ordinary 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
ViiV Healthcare UK (No.6) Limited Ordinary 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
ViiV Healthcare UK Limited Ordinary 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
ViiV Healthcare ULC Common 78.3 3500 855-2nd Street SW, Calgary, AB, T2P 4J8, Canada
ViiV Healthcare Venture LLC LLC Interests 78.3 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
ViiVHIV Healthcare Unipessoal Lda Quota 78.3 Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, Alges,
1495-131, Portugal
Vog AU PTY LTD (ii) Ordinary; Redeemable 68 82 Hughes Avenue, Ermington, NSW, 2115, Australia
Preference
Winster Pharmaceuticals Limited (ii) Ordinary 46.4 2A Association Avenue, Ilupeju Industrial Estate, Lagos, PO Box 3199,
Nigeria
Wyeth Consumer Healthcare LLC Membership Interest 68 CT Corporation System, 600 N 2nd St, Suite 401, Harrisburg,
Pennsylvania, 17101, United States
Wyeth Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd Registered capital 68 4 Baodai West Road, Suzhou, Jiangsu Province, 215128, China
Wyeth Pharmaceuticals Company (vii) Capital Contribution 68 State Road No 3, Kilometer 141.3, Guayama, 00784, Puerto Rico
Associates
Apollo Therapeutics LLP Partnership interest 25 Stevenage Biosciences Catalyst, Gunnels Wood Road, Stevenage,
(25%) Hertfordshire, SG1 2FX, England
GlaxoSmithKline Landholding Company, Inc Common (40%) 39.9 2266 Chino Roces Avenue, City of Makati, 1231, Philippines
Index Ventures Life VI (Jersey) LP Partnership interest (25%) 25 44 Esplanade, St Helier, Jersey JE4 9WG, Channel Islands
Innoviva Inc Common shares (31.6%) 31.6 1350 Old Bayshore Highway, Suite 400, Burlingame, CA, 94010,
United States
Kurma Biofund II FCPR Partnership Interest 32.1 24 rue Royale, 75008 Paris, France
(32.1%)
Longwood Fund I, LP Partnership Interest 35 The Prudential Tower, Suite 1555, 800 Boylston Street, Boston,
(35%) MA 02199
Medicxi Ventures I LP Partnership Interest 26.2 44 Esplanade, St Helier, Jersey JE4 9WG, Channel Islands
(26.2%)
Joint Ventures
Chiron Panacea Vaccines Private Limited (ii) Equity Shares (50%) 50 708/718, 7th Floor, A Wing, Sagar Tech Plaza, Saki Naka, Andheri East,
Mumbai, Maharashtra, 400072, India
Qualivax Pte. Limited Ordinary (50%) 50 80 Robinson Road, #02-00, 068898 Singapore
Quell Intellectual Property Corp., LLC Membership Interest (34%) 34 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
Qura Therapeutics, LLC Units (39.2%) 39.2 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
Other significant shareholdings
Axon Therapies, Inc Common shares (9%) 22 C/O Coridea, LLC, 315 west 36th street, New York 10018, Delaware,
Series A Preference (13%) USA
Gladius Pharmaceuticals Corporation Series A shares (21.2%) 21.2 500 Boulevard West Cartier Quest, Laval, QC H7V 5B7
Global Farm S.A. A Shares (0%) 16.7 Cazadores de Coquimbo 2841 piso 3, Munro, Argentina
B Shares (0%)
C shares(100%)
D Shares (0%)
E Shares (0%)
F Shares (0%)
Longwood Fund II LP Partnership Interest 20 The Prudential Tower, Suite 1555, 800 Boylston Street, Boston,
(20%) MA 02199
NeuSpera Medical, Inc. Series A Preference (9.3%) 19.8 51 Daggett Dr, San Jose, CA 95134, United States
Series B Preference (10.5%)
Sanderling Ventures VII, L.P. A63 Partnership Interest 25.3 400 S. El Camino Real, Suite 1200, San Mateo, CA 94402
(25.3%)
SR One Capital Fund I-B, LP Partnership Interest 44 Corporation service company, 251 Little Falls Drive, City of Wilmington,
(44%) County of New Castle, Delaware 19808
VHsquared Limited Series A Preference shares 27.2 Copley Hill Farm, Cambridge Rd, Babraham, Cambridge CB22 3GN,
(27.2%) United Kingdom
GSK Annual Report 2020 297Other statutory disclosures continued
Group companies continued
The following UK subsidiaries will take advantage of the audit exemption set out within section 479A of the Companies Act 2006
for the period ended 31 December 2020. Unless otherwise stated, the undertakings listed below are owned, either directly or
indirectly, by GlaxoSmithKline plc.
Company
Name Security Registered address Number
UK registered subsidiaries exempted from audit
Burroughs Wellcome International Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 00543757
Cellzome Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 05001893
Clarges Pharmaceuticals Limited Ordinary; Preference 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 00100583
(99.97%)
Domantis Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 03907643
Edinburgh Pharmaceutical Industries Limited Ordinary; Preference Shewalton Road, Irvine, Ayrshire, KA11 5AP, Scotland SC005534
Eskaylab Limited 10p Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 00099025
Glaxo Wellcome UK Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 00480080
Glaxochem (UK) Unlimited Ordinary; Ordinary B; 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 04299472
Ordinary C
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (UK) (No.1) Limited** Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 00753340
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Sri Lanka Holdings Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 09400298
Limited**
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property (No.3) Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 11480952
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property (No.4) Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 11721880
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property (No.5) Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 11959399
GlaxoSmithKline International Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 02298366
GSK Consumer Healthcare Export Limited** Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 12508093
GSK Limited (ii) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 12215835
GSK New Zealand Holding Company Limited** Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 12342879
Montrose Fine Chemical Company Ltd Ordinary Shewalton Road, Irvine, Ayrshire, KA11 5AP, Scotland SC190635
PF Consumer Healthcare UK Limited** Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 11678315
PHIVCO UK II Limited* Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 06944229
PHIVCO UK Limited* Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 06944223
Smith Kline & French Laboratories Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 00052207
SmithKline Beecham (Export) Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 02860752
SmithKline Beecham (H) Limited Non-cumulative 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 03296131
non-redeemables;
Ordinary
SmithKline Beecham (Investments) Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 00302065
SmithKline Beecham Marketing and Technical Services Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 00494385
Limited
SmithKline Beecham Nominees Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 00503868
Stiefel Laboratories (U.K.) Ltd Ordinary Eurasia Headquarters, Concorde Road, Maidenhead, Berkshire, SL6 00831160
4BY, England
Tesaro UK Limited Ordinary 55 Baker Street, London, W1U 7EU, England 07890847
The Wellcome Foundation Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 00194814
ViiV Healthcare Overseas Limited* Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 07027385
* The company has an effective ownership in ViiV Healthcare Overseas Limited, PHIVCO UK II Limited and PHIVCO UK Limited of 78.3%
** The company has an effective ownership in GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (UK) (No.1) Limited, GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Sri Lanka Holdings Limited, GSK
Consumer Healthcare Export Limited and GSK New Zealand Holding Company Limited of 68%
In accordance with section 479C of the Companies Act 2006, the Company will guarantee debts and liabilities of the above UK subsidiary undertakings. As at 31 December 2020 the
total sum of these debts and liabilities is £168 million (2019 – £16 million)
Key
(i) Directly owned by GlaxoSmithKline plc.
(ii) D ormant entity.
(iii) T ax resident in the UK.
(iv) Entity expected to be disposed of or removed.
(v) Incorporated in Sweden.
(vi) Consolidated as a subsidiary in accordance with section 1162 (4)(a) of the Companies Act 2006 on the grounds of dominant influence.
(vii) Principal business address in Puerto Rico.
(viii) Exempt from the provisions of Regulations 4-6 of the Partnership (Accounts) Regulation 2008, in accordance with the exemptions noted in Regulation 7 of that Regulation.
(ix) Incorporated in the Netherlands
298 GSK Annual Report 2020Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Glossary of terms
Terms used in the Annual Report US equivalent or brief description
Accelerated capital allowances Tax allowance in excess of depreciation arising from the purchase of fixed assets that delay
the charging and payment of tax. The equivalent of tax depreciation.
American Depositary Receipt (ADR) Receipt evidencing title to an ADS. Each GSK ADR represents two Ordinary Shares.
American Depositary Shares (ADS) Listed on the New York Stock Exchange; represents two Ordinary Shares.
Basic earnings per share Basic income per share.
Called up share capital Ordinary Shares, issued and fully paid.
CER growth Growth at constant exchange rates.
The company GlaxoSmithKline plc.
Currency swap An exchange of two currencies, coupled with a subsequent re-exchange of those currencies,
at agreed exchange rates and dates.
Defined benefit plan Pension plan with specific employee benefits, often called ‘final salary scheme’.
Defined contribution plan Pension plan with specific contributions and a level of pension dependent upon the growth
of the pension fund.
Derivative financial instrument A financial instrument that derives its value from the price or rate of some underlying item.
Diluted earnings per share Diluted income per share.
Employee Share Ownership Plan Trusts Trusts established by the Group to satisfy share-based employee incentive plans.
Equity Shareholders’ funds Shareholders’ equity.
Finance lease Capital lease.
Freehold Ownership with absolute rights in perpetuity.
The Group GlaxoSmithKline plc and its subsidiary undertakings.
GSK GlaxoSmithKline plc and its subsidiary undertakings.
Hedging The reduction of risk, normally in relation to foreign currency or interest rate movements,
by making off-setting commitments.
Intangible fixed assets Assets without physical substance, such as computer software, brands, licences, patents,
know-how and marketing rights purchased from outside parties.
Novartis transaction The three-part inter-conditional transaction with Novartis AG involving the Consumer
Healthcare, Vaccines and Oncology businesses completed on 2 March 2015.
Ordinary Share A fully paid up ordinary share in the capital of the company.
Profit Income.
Profit attributable to shareholders Net income.
Share capital Ordinary Shares, capital stock or common stock issued and fully paid.
Share option Stock option.
Share premium account Additional paid-up capital or paid-in surplus (not distributable).
Shares in issue The number of shares outstanding.
Subsidiary An entity in which GSK exercises control.
Treasury share Treasury stock.
Turnover Revenue.
UK Corporate Governance Code As required by the UK Listing Authority, the company has disclosed in the Annual Report how
it has applied the best practice corporate governance provisions of the Financial Reporting
Council’s UK Corporate Governance Code.
GSK Annual Report 2020 299Index
Page Page
2020 Remuneration policy summary 133 Investor relations 283
Accounting principles and policies 158 Key accounting judgements and estimates 163
Acquisitions and disposals 208 Key performance indicators 11
Adjustments reconciling profit after tax to operating Legal proceedings 234
cash flows 212 Major restructuring costs 172
Affordability and availability 35 Modern employer 36
Annual General Meeting 2021 279 Movements in equity 204
Approach to tax 54 Net debt 189
Assets held for sale 187 New accounting requirements 165
Associates and joint ventures 174 Nominations Committee Report 105
Audit & Risk Committee Report 97 Non-controlling interests 206
Business model 01 Non-controlling interests in ViiV Healthcare 52
Cash and cash equivalents 187 Non-Executive Directors’ fees 129
Cash generation and conversion 68 Non-financial information statement 49
CEO’s statement 04 Notes to the financial statements 158
Chairman’s statement 03 Operating profit 170
Chairman’s Governance statement 78 Other intangible assets 182
Chairman’s Remuneration annual statement 112 Other investments 185
Climate-related financial disclosure 46 Other non-current assets 185
Commitments 202 Other non-current liabilities 202
Consolidated balance sheet 155 Other operating income/(expense) 169
Consolidated cash flow statement 157 Other provisions 200
Consolidated income statement 154 Our culture 10
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 156 Our long-term priorities 09
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 154 Pensions and other post-employment benefits 191
Consumer Healthcare 27,31 Performance 28
Consumer Healthcare products and competition 260 Pharmaceuticals 18,28
Contingent consideration liabilities 201 Pharmaceutical products, competition and
Contingent liabilities 202 intellectual property 258
Corporate Executive Team 83 Pipeline 255
Corporate governance 77 Post balance sheet events 237
Corporate Responsibility Committee Report 102 Presentation of the financial statements 158
Critical accounting policies 75 Principal Group companies 233
Data and engagement 40 Principal risks and uncertainties 261
Directors and senior management 131 Property, plant and equipment 179
Directors’ interests in shares 130 Quarterly trend 244
Directors’ report 109 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt 213
Directors’ statement of responsibilities 140 Registrar 282
Dividends 178,278 Related party transactions 208
Donations to political organisations and Reliable supply 39
political expenditure 286 Remuneration governance 128
Earnings per share 178 Remuneration report 114
Employee costs 171 Reporting framework 51
Employee share schemes 231 Responsible business 39
Environment 41 Right of use assets 180
Ethics and values 39 Risk management 43
Exchange rates 166 Science and technology 34
Finance expense 173 Science Committee report 104
Finance income 173 Section 172 statement 108
Financial calendar 2021 279 Share capital and control 276
Financial instruments and related disclosures 214 Share capital and share premium account 203
Financial performance 06,55 Shareholder information 276
Financial position and resources 69 Shareholder services and contacts 282
Financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc, prepared Stakeholder engagement 16
under UK GAAP 238 Taxation 175
Five year record 249 Tax information for shareholders 280
Glossary of terms 299 The Board 80
Goodwill 181 Trade and other payables 188
Group companies 287 Trade and other receivables 186
Group financial review 51 Transformation & Separation Committee report 107
Impact of Brexit 49 Treasury policies 74
Independent Auditor’s report 142 Trust 33
Industry trends 12 Turnover and segment information 166
Innovation 18 US law and regulation 284
Inventories 186 Vaccines 18,30
Investments in associates and joint ventures 184 Vaccine products, competition and intellectual property 259
Viability statement 48
300 GSK Annual Report 2020About GSK
GlaxoSmithKline plc was incorporated as an English Brand names
Brand names appearing in italics throughout this report
public limited company on 6 December 1999. We were are trade marks either owned by and/or licensed to GSK
or associated companies. All other trade marks are the
formed by a merger between Glaxo Wellcome plc and property of their respective owners.
SmithKline Beecham plc. GSK acquired these two Acknowledgements
Printing
English companies on 27 December 2000 as part Printed sustainably in the UK by Pureprint, a CarbonNeutral®
company with FSC® chain of custody and an ISO 14001
of the merger arrangements. certified environmental management system recycling over
99% of all dry waste.
Our shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange Paper
Printed on Innovation Premium, an FSC certified paper.
and the New York Stock Exchange. The pulps used are Totally Chlorine Free and the
manufacturing mill has ISO 14001 environmental
management certification. The mill’s energy is produced
from 100% biomass fuels sourced from local forestry
Read more at www.gsk.com and no fossil fuels are used. The carbon emissions have
been measured and offset using the World Land Trust’s
Carbon Balanced scheme.
Download PDFs:
A nnual Report 2020
F orm 20-F
Cautionary statement regarding Such factors include, but are not limited to, those discussed The Group’s guidance assumes successful delivery of the
forward-looking statements under ‘Principal risks and uncertainties’ on pages 261 Group’s integration and restructuring plans. It also assumes
The Group’s reports filed with or furnished to the US to 275 of this Annual Report and any impacts of the that the integration and investment programmes following
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including COVID-19 pandemic. Any forward-looking statements the creation of the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture with
this document, and any other written information released, made by or on behalf of the Group speak only as of the Pfizer are delivered successfully. Material costs for
or oral statements made, to the public in the future by or date they are made and are based upon the knowledge investment in new product launches and R&D have been
on behalf of the Group, may contain forward-looking and information available to the Directors on the date of factored into the expectations given. Given the potential
statements. Forward-looking statements give the Group’s this Annual Report. development options in the Group’s pipeline, the outlook
c i t T ‘n ih nu hv e tr ee eyr yse n dtn u do ot s ’r , ee n ‘c wx o wap t in loe r l ’ec ri , d dlt ‘a pa e stt r n e si oo t ui jsn f ecy ts cr h it tco h ’a ,tr e sl ‘ y pf s o ‘e lt a ar o ne ns thc t ’i ,a c ia s ‘t bis e t pot em as r l t iie eo ecn vf ’a , e tf l ‘s u ’eo , t sb r ‘u t ty c ar i me u rt g h r ae re etv e e te f n ’’a ,n at c ‘t nefs t a dx. t c ph A ot ea sn tct . h t e’, r A p o tone n Tr pu f oo am tr g amb le e ra s er n s5o c u1f e l n t to soo f in 5 so- 3u sIF r ea R b tn S ou d us m ai tn oe re e na s c s s pou . a nr T ge ch es ie l i 6a as tr e 4ie o . m nu s e oe a f d s Au t dro e j ur se s a tp ero e dr t d r et eh sfie un le tsd m d c o anh fea ntacy h oni s eb g ui e o i ne n n csa ts e ef if . n n d e O d c t oa eut ne x dr d 3r g ce b u h Mgiy aid m a na a rged cn esd hc , i e i 2t nai o 0a n tn s 2hda s e 1 dul . Ud om Tea K het s ea s c n - gond o uror t p ii dv s i one i arg cn a nn l tu cR ii odfi e& nc e iD sa tt n ah gi t xn e i vnv ri eae me nts w ep t o m a nce t n t
words and terms of similar meaning in connection with The information in this document does not constitute an a constant currency basis.
any discussion of future operating or financial offer to sell or an invitation to buy shares in GlaxoSmithKline Notice regarding limitations on
performance. In particular, these include statements plc or an invitation or inducement to engage in any other Director Liability under English Law
relating to future actions, prospective products or product investment activities. Past performance cannot be relied
approvals, future performance or results of current and upon as a guide to future performance. Nothing in this Under the UK Companies Act 2006, a safe harbour limits
anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, the Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast. the liability of Directors in respect of statements in and
outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings, omissions from the Directors’ Report (for which see page
dividend payments and financial results. Other than in Assumptions related to 2021 guidance 109), the Strategic report and the Remuneration report.
accordance with its legal or regulatory obligations In outlining the guidance for 2021, the Group has made Under English law the Directors would be liable to the
(including under the Market Abuse Regulations, the certain assumptions about the healthcare sector, the company, but not to any third party, if one or more of these
UK Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency different markets in which the Group operates and the reports contained errors as a result of recklessness or
Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority), the Group delivery of revenues and financial benefits from its current knowing misstatement or dishonest concealment of a
undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking portfolio, pipeline and restructuring programmes. material fact, but would otherwise not be liable. Pages 77
statements, whether as a result of new information, future to 110, 140 to 141, and 261 to 298 inclusive comprise the
events or otherwise. The reader should, however, consult The Group has made planning assumptions for 2021 that Directors’ Report, pages 1 to 76 inclusive comprise the
any additional disclosures that the Group may make in any healthcare systems and consumer trends will approach Strategic report and pages 111 to 138 inclusive comprise
documents which it publishes and/or files with the SEC. normality in the second half of the year, and we expect the Remuneration report, each of which have been drawn
All readers, wherever located, should take note of these turnover to be flat to low single digit growth for the up and presented in accordance with and in reliance upon
disclosures. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines businesses and low to English company law and the liabilities of the Directors in
any particular expectation will be met and investors are mid-single digit growth for Consumer Healthcare excluding connection with these reports shall be subject to the
cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward- brands divested/under review. These planning assumptions limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
looking statements. a as s sw ue mll e a ns o e mar an ti en rg ias l g inu ti ed ra run pc te i oa nn sd t od i svi ud pe pn ld y oe fx p the ec t Gat ri oo un ps ’ s Website
Forward-looking statements are subject to assumptions, products, no material mergers, acquisitions or disposals, GSK’s website www.gsk.com gives additional information
inherent risks and uncertainties, many of which relate to no material litigation or investigation costs for the Company on the Group. Notwithstanding the references we make
factors that are beyond the Group’s control or precise (save for those that are already recognised or for which in this Annual Report to GSK’s website, none of the
estimate. The Group cautions investors that a number provisions have been made), no share repurchases by the information made available on the website constitutes
of important factors, including those in this document, Company, and no change in the Group’s shareholdings in part of this Annual Report or shall be deemed to be
could cause actual results to differ materially from those ViiV Healthcare. The assumptions also assume no material incorporated by reference herein.
expressed or implied in any forward-looking statement. changes in the healthcare environment. The 2021 guidance
factors in all divestments and product exits announced to
date, including product divestments planned in connection
with the formation of the Consumer Healthcare Joint
Venture with Pfizer, and the non-core divestments planned
to fund the cash costs of the Separation Preparation
restructuring programme.Front cover
Technology can help us find more patterns
in genetic data faster. Combining genetics
with tools like functional genomics and artificial
intelligence can help us understand what is really
causing disease, and could help double success
rates for new treatments and interventions.
This image was created using anonymised
real-world clinical trial data formatted to produce
visualisations of unexpected natural groupings
and patterns within each dataset which can give
us new insight into which patients best respond
to new medicines and why.
Search for us here
Head Office and Registered Office
GlaxoSmithKline plc
980 Great West Road
Brentford, Middlesex TW8 9GS
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)20 8047 5000
Registered number: 3888792
www.gsk.com