Head Office and Registered Office
GlaxoSmithKline plc
980 Great West Road
Brentford, Middlesex TW8 9GS
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)20 8047 5000 G SK is changing
Registered number: 3888792
Printed in the UK. The paper used
Annual Report 2009
in the production of this document
is made from 100% post consumer
waste. The pulp is bleached using
a totally chlorine free process. Do more, feel better, live longer
GlaxoSmithKline
Annual
Report
2009
www.gsk.comAvailable online...
2009 was a year of significant change for GSK.
To review our progress visit
www.gsk.com/annualreport
Website
GlaxoSmithKline’s website www.gsk.com gives additional information on the Group. Notwithstanding the references we make in this
Annual Report to GlaxoSmithKline’s website, none of the information made available on the website constitutes part of this Annual
Report or shall be deemed to be incorporated by reference herein.
Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements
The Group’s reports filed with or furnished to the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including this document and written
information released, or oral statements made, to the public in the future by or on behalf of the Group, may contain forward-looking
statements. Forward-looking statements give the Group’s current expectations or forecasts of future events. An investor can identify these
statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. They use words such as ‘anticipate’, ‘estimate’, ‘expect’,
‘intend’, ‘will’, ‘project’, ‘plan’, ‘believe’ and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future
operating or financial performance. In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, prospective products or product
approvals, future performance or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, the outcome of contingencies such
as legal proceedings, and financial results. The Group undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a
result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties. The Group cautions investors that a number of important factors,
including those in this document, could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement.
Such factors include, but are not limited to, those discussed under ‘Risk factors’ on pages 43 to 47 of this Annual Report.01
Contents
Business review
2009 Performance overview
Business review Financial trends
This discusses our financial and Products, intellectual property and competition
non-financial activities, resources, Global manufacturing and supply
development and performance Research and development
during 2009 and outlines the Our employees
factors, including the trends and Our responsibility
the principal risks and uncertainties, Regulation
which are likely to affect future World market, economy and outlook
development. Financial review 2009
Financial position and resources
Risk factors
Governance and remuneration Financial review 2008
This discusses our management
structures and governance
Governance and remuneration
procedures. It also sets out the
Our Board
remuneration policies operated
Our Corporate Executive Team
for our Directors and Corporate
Governance and policy
Executive Team members.
Dialogue with shareholders
Internal control framework
Committee reports
Financial statements Remuneration policy
Director terms and conditions
The financial statements provide a
summary of the Group’s financial Director and Senior Management remuneration
performance throughout 2009 and Directors’ interests
its position as at 31st December Directors’ interests in contracts
2009. The consolidated financial
statements are prepared in
accordance with the IFRS as adopted
by the European Union and also
Financial statements
IFRS as issued by the International
Directors’ statement of responsibilities
Accounting Standards Board.
Independent Auditors’ report
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
Shareholder information
Financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc
This includes the full product
prepared under UK GAAP
development pipeline and discusses
shareholder return in the form
of dividends and share price
movements..
Shareholder information
Quarterly trend
Five year record
Product development pipeline
Share price and dividends
Nature of trading market
Annual General Meeting
Investor relations and Registrar
Taxation information for shareholders
Glossary of terms
Index
GSK Annual Report 2009
Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
Notice regarding limitations on Director
Liability under English Law
Under the UK Companies Act 2006, a safe harbour limits the
liability of Directors in respect of statements in and omissions
from the Report of the Directors contained on pages 6
to 90. Under English law the Directors would be liable
to the company, but not to any third party, if the Report
of the Directors contains errors as a result of recklessness
or knowing misstatement or dishonest concealment of a
material fact, but would not otherwise be liable.
Report of the Directors
Pages 6 to 90 inclusive comprise the Report of the Directors
that has been drawn up and presented in accordance with
and in reliance upon English company law and the liabilities
of the Directors in connection with that report shall be subject
to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.02
Chairman & CEO summary
Our strategy is delivering and
we believe that GSK is now
moving to a position where
it can deliver long-term financial
performance on a sustainable
basis for shareholders.
Sir Christopher Gent Andrew Witty
Chairman Chief Executive Officer
GSK Annual Report 200903
Chairman & CEO summary
Dear Shareholder We continue to look at how we can make better decisions around
pipeline progression and maintain our strategy to increase the level
Since our last Annual Report, GSK has made significant progress of externally sourced compounds in our pipeline, through more
to transform its business model. option-based agreements.
Our strategy is delivering and we believe that GSK is now moving In addition, we are reducing R&D investment and associated
to a position where it can deliver long-term financial performance infrastructure in therapy areas where we believe the prospects
on a sustainable basis for shareholders. for successful registration and launch of differentiated medicines
are low.
Return to sales growth
In 2009, we saw GSK return to sales growth. Our strategic Based on the investment made in our late stage pipeline and our
priority, to diversify and drive growth in key investment areas long-term sales expectation, we estimate our projected rate of R&D
such as Emerging Markets, Consumer Healthcare and Vaccines, return to be around 11%. We believe this is an improvement on
has supported this growth. the industry average over the last ten years. Our long-term goal
is to go further and realise an aspirational rate of return for GSK’s
In doing so we have developed many more engines of growth
R&D of around 14%.
for the company. This increased diversification is helping
to reduce risk through lower sales volatility – evident in that More responsive, more flexible, more open
GSK absorbed the impact of losing more than £1 billion Equally important are GSK’s financial and social responsibilities to
of sales to genericisation in the US market in 2009. ensure the long-term success and sustainability of our business.
Of course, sales of our influenza products to governments We are determined to make our company more responsive,
responding to the H1N1 pandemic also contributed to sales. more flexible and more open to society’s expectations.
For many years, we have invested in developing our influenza We continue to make progress in many areas such as improving
capabilities. Five months after the WHO declared H1N1 a global access to medicines, enhancing research opportunities for
flu pandemic, GSK was able to supply an approved vaccine neglected tropical diseases, raising the ethical standards for
for governments across the world. We are continuing to work conducting our research and our commercial activities, and
closely with them to respond to their needs. being more transparent about the way we run our business.
New product momentum sustained Progressive dividend
We remain focused on broadening and strengthening our As one of the FTSE 100’s top dividend payers, we strongly believe
product portfolio. Last year, GSK received 12 product approvals in the importance of returning funds to our shareholders. In line
and completed 11 new filings. with GSK’s progressive dividend policy, the Board has approved
a total dividend for the year of 61 pence, a 7% increase on last
In the last 3 years, GSK has obtained more FDA approvals for
year’s dividend.
new medicines and vaccines than any other company.
Improving long-term prospects
Over the next 18 months we have the potential to launch a
In conclusion, we are making progress against our strategic
number of brand new medicines and vaccines, including Benlysta,
priorities. We have seen good progress in our sales performance;
which would be the first new treatment for systemic lupus in over
we are maintaining a strong focus on cost reduction; we are
50 years.
delivering more new medicines, vaccines and consumer
This momentum is set against a continued goal of maintaining healthcare products; and we continue to take new initiatives
around 30 assets in our late stage pipeline. to build society’s trust. In accomplishing this, we would like to
recognise the enormous contribution of our employees and our
Improving return on investment
wide network of partners.
We remain mindful of the need to improve and demonstrate
better returns on investment. Across the entire business, we There is no doubt that we are operating in a challenging
continue to implement our restructuring programme to simplify environment. However, with further successful execution of our
operations and reduce costs. In 2009 this programme delivered strategy, we believe GSK’s long-term prospects are improving
£1 billion of annual savings. and that we will enhance our position as a leading-edge
healthcare company.
In particular, in Research and Development we are strongly
focused on allocating capital to areas where we can get the
best return on investment.
Sir Christopher Gent Andrew Witty
Chairman Chief Executive Officer
GSK Annual Report 200904
Our strategy
We are focused on delivering three
strategic priorities to transform GSK into
a company that delivers more growth,
has less risk and an improved long-term
financial performance.
To be a successful and sustainable
business we must also fulfil our social
responsibilities. We are doing this by
making our company more responsive,
more flexible and more open.
Strategic priorities
• Grow a diversified global business – We are diversifying
our business to create a more balanced product portfolio
and move away from a reliance on traditional ‘white pill/
western markets’. We are investing in key growth areas such
as Emerging Markets, Japan, Vaccines and our Consumer
Healthcare business.
• Deliver more products of value – We aim to sustain an
industry-leading pipeline of products, ensuring that they
demonstrate value for healthcare providers. Our R&D strategy
is built around focusing on the best science, diversifying
through externalisation of research, and improving the returns
on investment.
• Simplify the operating model – GSK is a large and complex
organisation. We are transforming our operating model to
reduce complexities, improve efficiency and reduce costs.
For updates on our progress against these priorities and further
measures to operate with responsibility and integrity, please visit
our website at www.gsk.com/annualreport
GSK Annual Report 200905
Discover the world of GSK online. We have
chosen twelve case studies from 2009 that
demonstrate our progress against our
strategic priorities and show how GSK is
changing. Each of these stories can be
viewed online at
www.gsk.com/annualreport
GSK Annual Report 200906
2009 performance overview
CER growth %‡
28.4 3
24.4 (3)
22.7 2
9
7
Earnings per share before major restructuring*
CER growth %‡
121.2 2
104.7 (9)
99.1 10
19
18
Free cash flow+
5,254
4,679
3,857
Total shareholder return
GSK Annual Report 2009
35P–60P
weiver
ssenisuB
Key performance indicators Our strategies
We have focused the business around the delivery of
three strategic priorities.
Turnover
£bn Grow a diversified global business
2009
Broadening and balancing our portfolio,
2008
diversifying into new product areas and
2007
capturing opportunities that exist beyond
2006 23.2
our established geographic footprint.
2005 21.7
pence
2009
2008
2007
2006 95.5
2005 82.6
£m
2009
2008
2007
2006 2,623
2005 4,664
Deliver more products of value
175
Transforming R&D to ensure we not only
deliver the current pipeline but are also
150
able to sustain the flow of products for
125 years to come.
100
75
31/12/04 31/12/05 31/12/06 31/12/07 31/12/ 08 3 1/12/0 9
GlaxoSmithKline Total Return Index
GlaxoSmithKline Pharma Peers Return Index
FTSE 100 Total Return Index
‡ The calculation of CER growth is described on page 10.
* The calculation of results before major restructuring is described in Note 1 to the
financial statements, ‘Presentation of the financial statements’. Simplifying the operating model
+ The calculation of free cash flow is described on page 39.
Simplifying our operating model to ensure
that it is fit for purpose and able to support
our business in the most cost efficient way.07
2009 performance overview
Our measures Our progress in 2009
We use a number of measures to track our progress We made good progress during the year, with a number
against the strategic priorities over the medium to long of notable successes:
term. These include the following:
• Performance of core pharmaceuticals and • The core pharmaceuticals and vaccines businesses
vaccines businesses delivered sales of £19.1 billion and grew 5% in the
year. This excludes genericised products, Avandia and
influenza products. Including pandemic products,
sales were £20.9 billion, up 12% for 2009.
• Diversification of sales • Sales from white pill/western markets fell from 36%
of turnover in 2008 to 30% in 2009.
• Contribution of Emerging Markets to our overall • Sales in the Emerging Markets pharmaceutical
sales and growth business grew 20% to nearly £3 billion, now
representing 10% of Group turnover.
• We completed 10 bolt-on acquisitions in 2009.
• Growth of Consumer Healthcare market share • Consumer Healthcare market share gains were
delivered in the OTC and Oral healthcare businesses,
but share declined in Nutritional healthcare.
• Consumer Healthcare sales grew 7% to £4.7 billion,
with growth in all categories: OTC up 8%; Oral
healthcare up 7%; Nutritional healthcare up 3%.
• Expansion of Japanese business • Sales reached £1.6 billion in 2009, up 22%, driven
by Adoair and Relenza.
• Products launched in the last three years contributed
around £260 million sales in 2009.
• Build biopharmaceutical portfolio • Arzerra was launched in the USA, a positive opinion
was received for Prolia and positive phase III data
was announced for Benlysta in 2009.
• Around 17% of our pipeline now comprises
biopharmaceutical assets.
• Contribution to sales of new products • New pharmaceutical products launched since 2007
contributed sales of £1.3 billion, or £2.1 billion
including H1N1 pandemic vaccine.
• Number of reimbursable product approvals • We received 12 product approvals and completed 11
and filings new filings in 2009. In the last three years we have
obtained more FDA approvals for new molecular
entities and vaccines than any other company.
• Sustaining late-stage pipeline • We maintained around 30 assets in phase III and
registration, with five new programmes entering
phase III during 2009.
• Enhanced R&D productivity and increased • Our projected rate of return based on investment
externalisation for Drug Discovery made in our late stage pipeline and expected future
long-term sales performance is around 11%.
Our long-term goal is to improve our rate of return
for R&D to around 14%.
• We have ‘externalised’ approximately 30% of our
discovery research with 47 external partners.
• Delivery of major restructuring programme • Annual cost savings of £1 billion have already been
achieved. The programme has been expanded again
to deliver annual savings of £2.2 billion by 2012.
GSK Annual Report 2009
Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P1835–P20408
GSK Annual Report 2009
35P–60P
weiver
ssenisuB
Report of the Directors
The Report of the Directors
2009 Performance overview 6
provides users of the financial
Financial trends 9
Products, intellectual property and competition 11 statements with a more complete
Global manufacturing and supply 14 picture of GSK. It supplements
Research and development 15
Our employees 20 the information in the financial
Our responsibility 21 statements with a discussion of
Regulation 26
other aspects of our activities,
World market, economy and outlook 27
Financial review 2009 28 our future and the environment
Financial position and resources 36
in which we operate.
Risk factors 43
Financial review 2008 48
Our Board 54
Our Corporate Executive Team 56
Governance and policy 58
Dialogue with shareholders 62
Share capital and control 63 Business review
Donations to political organisations and
This discusses our financial and non-financial
political expenditure 64
activities, resources, development and performance
Annual General Meeting 65
during 2009 and outlines the factors, including the
Internal control framework 65
trends and the principal risks and uncertainties,
Committee reports 67
which are likely to affect future development.
The Combined Code 71
US law and regulation 71
Corporate governance
This discusses our management structures and
governance procedures. It includes disclosures on
Letter from the Chairman of the Remuneration compliance with the Combined Code on Corporate
Committee 73 Governance of the Financial Reporting Council
Remuneration policy 74 (Combined Code) and with US laws and regulation.
Executive Director terms and conditions 81
Non-Executive Director terms, conditions and fees 81
Remuneration report Directors and Senior Management remuneration 82
Annual remuneration 83 This sets out the remuneration policies operated
Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration 84 for our Directors and the Corporate Executive
Directors’ interests 85 Team (CET) members. There are disclosures on
Incentive plans 86 Directors’ remuneration including those required
Pension benefits 89 by The Large and Medium-sized Companies and
Directors and Senior Management 90 Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008.
Directors’ interests in contracts 90
09P–45P
noitarenumer
dna
ecnanrevoG
281P–19P
stnemetats
laicnaniF
402P–5381P
noitamrofni
redloherahSGSK Annual Report 2009
Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
09
Financial trends
2009 Growth* 2008 Growth* 2007
Total results £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m
Turnover 28,368 3 16 24,352 (3) 7 22,716
Cost of sales (7,380) 6 15 (6,415) 13 21 (5,317)
Selling, general and administration (9,592) 6 25 (7,656) 2 10 (6,954)
Research and development (4,106) 1 12 (3,681) 4 11 (3,327)
Other operating income 1,135 541 475
Operating profit 8,425 4 18 7,141 (20) (6) 7,593
Profit before taxation 7,891 4 19 6,659 (24) (11) 7,452
Profit after taxation for the year 5,669 6 20 4,712 (25) (11) 5,310
Profit attributable to minority interests 138 110 96
Profit attributable to shareholders 5,531 4,602 5,214
Basic earnings per share (pence) 109.1p 8 23 88.6p (21) (6) 94.4p
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 108.2p 88.1p 93.7p
Results before major restructuring
Turnover 28,368 3 16 24,352 (3) 7 22,716
Cost of sales (7,095) 13 23 (5,776) 4 11 (5,206)
Selling, general and administration (9,200) 6 25 (7,352) – 8 (6,817)
Research and development (3,951) 2 13 (3,506) 2 8 (3,237)
Other operating income 1,135 541 475
Operating profit 9,257 (1) 12 8,259 (10) 4 7,931
Profit before taxation 8,726 (1) 12 7,782 (14) – 7,790
Profit after taxation for the year 6,283 – 13 5,551 (14) – 5,571
Profit attributable to minority interests 138 110 96
Profit attributable to shareholders 6,145 5,441 5,475
Basic earnings per share (pence) 121.2p 2 16 104.7p (9) 6 99.1p
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 120.3p 104.1p 98.3p
Research and development – total
Pharmaceuticals 3,947 3,557 3,215
Consumer Healthcare 159 124 112
Total 4,106 3,681 3,327
Net finance cost cover – total
Net finance costs 713 530 191
Cover 12 times 14 times 40 times
Net finance cost cover is profit before tax plus net finance costs, divided by net finance costs.
Tax rate – total 28.2% 29.2% 28.7%
Tax rate – before major restructuring 28.0% 28.7% 28.5%
Borrowings
Net debt 9,444 10,173 6,039
Gearing 88% 122% 61%
The gearing ratio is calculated as net debt as a percentage of total equity.
* CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates. Sterling% or £% represents growth at actual exchange rates. See page 10.
The calculation of results before major restructuring, is described in Note 1 to the financial statements, ‘Presentation of the financial statements’.10
GSK Annual Report 2009
35P–60P
weiver
ssenisuB
History and development of the company Results before major restructuring
GlaxoSmithKline plc is a public limited company incorporated on In October 2007, the Board approved the implementation of a
6th December 1999 under English law. Its shares are listed on the detailed formal plan for, and GSK announced, a significant new
London Stock Exchange and the New York Stock Exchange. Operational Excellence programme to improve the effectiveness and
On 27th December 2000 the company acquired Glaxo Wellcome productivity of its operations. A second formal plan, representing
plc and SmithKline Beecham plc, both English public limited a significant expansion of the Operational Excellence programme,
companies, by way of a scheme of arrange ment for the merger was approved by the Board and announced in February 2009.
of the two companies. GSK and its subsidiary and associated A further expansion was approved by the Board and announced
undertakings constitute a major global healthcare group engaged in February 2010. Total costs for the implementation of the
in the creation, discovery, development, manufacture and marketing expanded programme are expected to increase from £3.6 billion
of pharma ceutical and consumer health-related products. to approximately £4.5 billion, to be incurred over the period from
2007 to 2012. The programme is now expected to deliver total
GSK has its corporate head office in London and has its US
annual pre-tax savings of approximately £2.2 billion by 2012, with
headquarters in Research Triangle Park, North Carolina, with
savings realised across the business. GSK presents the restructuring
operations in some 120 countries, and products sold in over
costs incurred solely as a direct result of the Operational Excellence
150 countries.
programme in a separate column in the income statement titled
Annual Report and Summary ‘Major restructuring’. In addition to the restructuring costs of the
Operational Excellence programme, the major restructuring column
This report is the Annual Report of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year
in the income statement includes restructuring costs incurred solely
ended 31st December 2009, prepared in accordance with United
as a direct result of any restructuring programmes that follow, and
Kingdom requirements. It was approved by the Board of Directors
relate to, material acquisitions where the operations of the acquired
on 24th February 2010 and published on 25th February 2010.
business overlap extensively with GSK’s existing operations. The
A summary of the year, intended for the shareholder not needing $1.65 billion (£814 million) acquisition of Reliant Pharmaceuticals
the full detail of the Annual Report, is produced as a separate in December 2007 and the $3.6 billion (£2.2 billion) acquisition
document and issued to all shareholders. The summary does of Stiefel Laboratories in July 2009 are the only acquisitions since
not constitute a set of summary financial statements as defined October 2007 that meet these criteria.
by section 428 of the Companies Act 2006. The Annual Report
The Group’s results before the costs of the Operational Excellence
is issued to shareholders who have elected to receive it. Both
programme and acquisition-related restructuring programmes
documents are available on GSK’s website.
meeting the criteria described above are described as ‘Results
In this Report ‘GlaxoSmithKline’, the ‘Group’ or ‘GSK’ means before major restructuring’. This presentation, which GSK intends
GlaxoSmithKline plc and its subsidiary undertakings; the ‘company’ to apply consistently to future major restructuring programmes
means Glaxo SmithKline plc; ‘GlaxoSmithKline share’ means an that have a material impact on GSK’s operating results and on the
Ordinary Share of GlaxoSmithKline plc of 25p; American Depositary manner in which GSK’s business is conducted, has been adopted
Shares (ADS) each represent two GlaxoSmithKline shares. to show clearly the Group’s results both before and after the costs
of these restructuring programmes. Management believes that this
Brand names
presentation assists shareholders in gaining a clearer understanding
Brand names appearing in italics throughout this report are
of the Group’s financial performance and in making projections of
trademarks either owned by and/or licensed to GlaxoSmithKline
future financial performance, as results that include such costs, by
or associated companies, with the exception of Baycol and Levitra,
virtue of their size and nature, have limited comparative value.
trademarks of Bayer, Benlysta, a trademark of Human Genome
This presentation is also consistent with the way management
Science, Boniva/Bonviva, a trademark of Roche, Citrucel, a trademark
assesses the Group’s financial performance.
of Merrell Pharmaceuticals, Volibris, a trademark of Gilead, NicoDerm,
a trademark of Elan, Johnson & Johnson, Merrell, Novartis, CER growth
Sanofi-Aventis or GlaxoSmithKline, Prolia, a trademark of Amgen and In order to illustrate underlying performance, it is the Group’s
Vesicare, a trademark of Astellas Pharmaceuticals in many countries practice to discuss its results in terms of constant exchange rate
and of Yamanouchi Pharmaceuticals in certain countries, all of which (CER) growth. This represents growth calculated as if the exchange
are used in certain countries under licence by the Group. rates used to determine the results of overseas companies in
Sterling had remained unchanged from those used in the previous
Currencies
year. CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates. £%
The currencies that most influence the Group’s results remain
represents growth at actual exchange rates.
the US dollar, the Euro, the Yen and Sterling. Details of the
exchange rates used by the Group are given in Note 5 ‘Exchange All commentaries in this Report are presented in terms of CER
Rates’ on page 106. unless otherwise stated.
During 2009, average Sterling exchange rates were weaker Exchange rates
against the US Dollar, the Euro and the Yen compared with 2008. The Group operates in many countries and earns revenues and
However, and as a result of the significant currency movements incurs costs in many currencies. The results of the Group, as
seen in Q4 2008, year end Sterling exchange rates were actually reported in Sterling, are affected by movements in exchange rates
stronger against all three currencies compared with those at between Sterling and other currencies. Average exchange rates
31st December 2008. prevailing during the period are used to translate the results and
cash flows of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures
into Sterling. Period end rates are used to translate the net assets
of those entities.11
GSK Annual Report 2009
Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
Products, intellectual property and competition
Pharmaceutical products Within the pharmaceutical industry, the introduction of new
GSK’s principal pharmaceutical products are currently directed to products and processes by our competitors may affect pricing or
nine main therapeutic areas including dermatologicals following the result in changing patterns of product use. There is no assurance
acquisition of Stiefel Laboratories in July 2009. A description of the that products will not become outmoded, notwithstanding patent
products is on pages 12 to 13 and an analysis of sales by therapeutic or trademark protection. In addition, increased government
area, is on page 29. and other pressures for physicians and patients to use generic
pharmaceuticals, rather than brand-name medicines, may increase
Competition competition for products that are no longer protected by a patent.
Our principal pharmaceutical competitors range from small to large
Intellectual property
pharmaceutical companies often with substantial resources. Some
of these companies are: Intellectual property is a key business asset for our company,
and the effective legal protection of our intellectual property (via
• Abbott Laboratories patents, trademarks, registered designs, copyrights and domain
• Amgen name registrations) is critical in ensuring a reasonable return on
investment in R&D.
• AstraZeneca
• Bristol-Myers Squibb Patents
• Eli Lilly It is our policy to try to obtain patents on commercially important,
protectable inventions discovered or developed through our R&D
• Johnson & Johnson
activities. Patent protection for new active ingredients is available
• Merck
in major markets and patents can also be obtained for new drug
• Novartis formulations, manufacturing processes, medical uses and devices
• Pfizer for administering products. Although we may obtain patents for
our products, this does not prevent them from being challenged
• Roche Holdings
before they expire. Further, the grant of a patent does not mean
• Sanofi-Aventis
that the issued patent will necessarily be held valid and enforceable
Pharmaceuticals may be subject to competition from other by a court. If a court determines that a patent we hold is invalid,
products during the period of patent protection and, once non infringed or unenforceable, it will not protect the market
off patent, from generic versions. The manufacturers of from third party entry prior to patent expiry. Significant litigation
generic products typically do not incur significant research and concerning such challenges is summarised in Note 44 to the
development or education and marketing development costs financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’.
and consequently are able to offer their products at considerably
The life of a patent in most countries is 20 years from the filing
lower prices than the branded competitors. As a research and
date, however the long development time for pharmaceutical
development based company we will normally seek to achieve a
products may result in a substantial amount of this patent life
sufficiently high profit margin and sales volume during the period
being used up before launch. In some markets (including the USA
of patent protection to repay the original investment, which is
and in Europe) it is possible to have some of this lost time restored
generally substantial, and to generate profits and fund research
and this leads to variations in the amount of patent life actually
for the future. Competition from generic products generally occurs
available for each product we market. Further, certain countries
as patents in major markets expire. Increasingly patent challenges
provide a period of data or market exclusivity that prevents a third
are made prior to patent expiry, claiming that the innovator patent
party company from relying on our clinical trial data to enter the
is not valid and/or that it is not infringed by the generic product.
market with its copy for the period of exclusivity.
Following the loss of patent protection, generic products rapidly
capture a large share of the market, particularly in the USA. The patent expiry dates for our significant products are in the
following table. Dates provided are for expiry of patents in the
We believe that remaining competitive is dependent upon the
USA and major European markets on the active ingredient, unless
discovery and development of new products, together with
otherwise indicated, and include extensions of patent term (including
effective marketing of existing products.
for paediatric use in the USA) where available.12
GSK Annual Report 2009
35P–60P
weiver
ssenisuB
Products, intellectual property and competition
Products Compounds Indication(s) Major Patent expiry dates
competitor brands USA EU
Respiratory
Seretide/Advair salmeterol xinafoate / asthma/COPD Singulair, Symbicort, 2010 20131
fluticasone propionate Spiriva, Asmanex, Pulmicort, (combination) (combination)
Foster 2011-2016 2011
(Diskus device) (Diskus device)
Flixotide/Flovent fluticasone propionate asthma/COPD Qvar, Singulair 2011-2025 2011-2017
(devices) (devices)
Serevent salmeterol xinafoate asthma/COPD Foradil, Spiriva 2011-2016 2011-2019
(Diskus device) (devices)
Veramyst fluticasone furoate rhinitis Nasacort 2021 2023
Anti-virals 2016 2016
Epzicom/Kivexa lamivudine and abacavir HIV/AIDS Truvada, Atripla (combination) (combination)
Combivir lamivudine and zidovudine HIV/AIDS Truvada, Atripla 2012 2013
(combination) (combination)
Trizivir lamivudine, zidovudine HIV/AIDS Truvada, Atripla 2016 2016
and abacavir (combination) (combination)
Agenerase amprenavir HIV/AIDS Prezista, Kaletra, Reyataz 2013 2014
Lexiva fosamprenavir HIV/AIDS Prezista, Kaletra, Reyataz 2017 2019
Epivir lamivudine HIV/AIDS Truvada, Atripla 2010 2011
Ziagen abacavir HIV/AIDS Truvada, Atripla 2012 2014
Valtrex valaciclovir genital herpes, coldsores, Famvir expired expired
shingles
Zeffix lamivudine chronic hepatitis B Hepsera 2010 2011
Relenza zanamivir influenza Tamiflu 2013 2014
Central nervous system
Lamictal lamotrigine epilepsy, bipolar disorder Keppra, Dilantin expired expired
Imigran/Imitrex sumatriptan migraine Zomig, Maxalt, Relpax expired expired
Seroxat/Paxil paroxetine depression, various Effexor, Cymbalta, expired expired
anxiety disorders Lexapro
Wellbutrin SR bupropion depression Effexor, Cymbalta, expired expired
Lexapro
Requip ropinirole Parkinson’s disease, Mirapex expired 2011
restless legs syndrome (use in
treating
Parkinson’s
disease)
Treximet sumatriptan and naproxen migraine Zomig, Maxalt, Relpax 2017 NA
(combination
and use)
Cardiovascular and urogenital
Avodart dutasteride benign prostatic hyperplasia Proscar, Flomax, finasteride 2015 2017
Lovaza omega-3 acid ethyl esters very high triglycerides Tricor 2017 NA
(Formulation)
Coreg CR carvedilol phosphate mild-to-severe heart failure, Toprol XL 20232 NA
hypertension, left ventricular
dysfunction post MI
Fraxiparine nadroparin deep vein thrombosis, Lovenox, Fragmin expired expired
pulmonary embolism Innohep
Arixtra fondaparinux deep vein thrombosis, Lovenox, Fragmin expired expired
pulmonary embolism Innohep
Vesicare solifenacin overactive bladder Detrol, Detrol LA, Enablex, 2018 NA
Sanctura
1 The UK and Irish patents have been revoked by the courts 2 Generic competition possible in 2010 following conclusion of patent proceedings13
GSK Annual Report 2009
Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
Products, intellectual property and competition
Products Compounds Indication(s) Major Patent expiry dates
competitor brands USA EU
Metabolic
Avandia rosiglitazone maleate type 2 diabetes Actos, Januvia 2012 2013
Avandamet rosiglitazone maleate and type 2 diabetes Competact, Janumet 2012 2013
metformin HCI Actoplus met
Anti-bacterials
Augmentin amoxicillin/clavulanate common infections expired expired
potassium
Altabax retapamulin skin infections 2021 2022
Oncology and emesis
Arzerra ofatumumab refractory chronic MabThera/Rituxan 2023 2023
lymphocytic leukaemia
Hycamtin topotecan ovarian cancer, small cell Doxil, Gemzar 2010 2011
lung cancer, cervical cancer
Promacta/ eltrombopag idiopathic thrombocytopenic Nplate 2022 2024
Revolade purpura
Tykerb/Tyverb lapatanib advanced and metastatic Herceptin 2020 2023
breast cancer in HER2
positive patients
Votrient pazopanib metastatic renal cell carcinoma Sutent, Nexavar 2023 2025
Vaccines
Infanrix/Pediarix diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, Pentavac, Pentaxim, 2017 2016
polio, hepatitis B (HepB), polio, hepatitis B (HepB), Pediacel, Pentacel
inactivated antigens
Fluarix split inactivated influenza virus seasonal influenza Vaxigrip, Mutagrip, Fluzone, 2022 2022
subtypes A and type B antigens Influvac, Aggripal, Fluad
FluLaval split inactivated influenza virus seasonal influenza Vaxigrip, Mutagrip, Fluzone, none none
subtypes A and type B antigens Influvac, Aggripal, Fluad
Cervarix HPV 16 & 18 virus like particles human papilloma virus Gardasil, Silgard 2026 2019
(VLPs), AS04 adjuvant (MPL + type 16 & 18
aluminium hydroxide)
Synflorix conjugated pneumococcal invasive pneumococcal Prevenar NA 2020
polysaccharide disease
Rotarix live attenuated rotavirus rotavirus gastroenteritis Rotateq 2022 2020
strain GIP(8)
Trademarks
All of GSK’s commercial products are protected by registered trademarks in major markets. There may be local variations, for example,
in the USA the trademark Advair covers the same product sold in the EU as Seretide. Trademark protection may generally be extended
as long as the trademark is used by renewing it when necessary. GSK’s trademarks are important for maintaining the brand identity of
its products. GSK enforces its trademark rights to prevent infringements.
Consumer Healthcare products
Our portfolio comprises three main categories: Over-the-counter (OTC) medicines, Oral healthcare and Nutritional healthcare.
Sales of key Consumer Healthcare products in 2009 are shown on page 30.
Our leading Consumer Healthcare products include the following:
OTC medicines
• alli, the first licenced weight loss medicine to be available without a prescription, launched in the USA in 2007 and across
Europe in 2009
• Panadol, the global paracetamol/acetaminophen analgesic
• Smoking control products NicoDerm, NiQuitin CQ, Nicabate and in the USA, Nicorette
• Other brands include Breathe Right nasal strips, Tums, Citrucel, Contac and FiberChoice.14
GSK Annual Report 2009
35P–60P
weiver
ssenisuB
Products, intellectual property and competition
Oral healthcare Global manufacturing and supply (GMS)
• Aquafresh, a range of toothpastes, toothbrushes More than 29,000 people work in GMS across our network of
and mouthwashes 78 sites in 33 countries. GMS supports the commercial ambition
• Sensodyne, a range of toothpastes, toothbrushes of GSK by delivering quality medicines and consumer products to
and mouthwashes including Pronamel to protect from patients and customers around the world.
acid erosion
The scale of manufacturing in GSK is huge, with the manufacture
• B iotene, acquired late in 2008, the leading treatment of over 4 billion packs per year in 28,000 different presentations
for dry mouth (including tablets, creams/ointments, inhalers, injections, liquids
• Polident, Poligrip and Corega denture care cleansers and steriles), which are then supplied to over 150 markets.
and adhesives Over £3.7 billion was spent by GMS on production in 2009.
• O ther brands include Odol, Macleans and Dr Best. GMS operates a procurement operation on behalf of the Group.
We spend over £2 billion annually with external suppliers,
Nutritional healthcare
purchasing active ingredients, chemical intermediates, packaging
• Lucozade, a range of energy and sports drinks
components and part-finished and finished products.
• H orlicks, a range of milk-based malted food and
During 2009, as our internal customers sought every opportunity
chocolate drinks
to grow their businesses, we focused on the cost-competitive
• Ribena, a blackcurrant juice-based drink.
supply of quality product to meet their ambitions. We worked
Consumer Healthcare competition diligently to leverage our network of sites and contractors to give
us built-in flexibility to sustain future growth and adapt to emerging
GSK holds leading global positions in all its key consumer product
commercial business models. In an increasingly rigorous external
areas. Worldwide it is the second largest in OTC medicines and the
regulatory environment, we have continued to leverage technology
third largest in Oral healthcare. In Nutritional healthcare it holds
in support of process understanding, control, and capability.
the leading position in the UK, India and Ireland.
Our Primary supply sites supply high quality, competitively priced
The environment in which the Consumer Healthcare business
bulk actives and focus on improvements in primary technologies
operates has become ever more challenging:
and processes. Our New Product and Global Supply sites work
• consumers are demanding better quality, better value and closely with R&D’s development teams to ensure that the right
improved performance technical competencies are in place to support rapid and successful
• r etailers have consolidated and globalised which has new product introduction. These sites serve as the focal point
strengthened their negotiation power for developing and introducing new secondary manufacturing
technologies. The sites in our Regional Pharma supply division focus
• cycle times for innovation have reduced.
on reducing costs, allowing GSK to compete more effectively in
The main competitors include the major international companies all its markets. Our Consumer Healthcare sites deliver high-quality,
Colgate-Palmolive, Johnson & Johnson, Procter & Gamble, Unilever competitively priced products and support rapid new product
and Pfizer. In addition, there are many other smaller companies introduction in a highly innovative and competitive business.
that compete with GSK in certain markets. New technologies have become a fundamental platform for driving
innovation, lowering costs, and providing flexibility in operations.
The major competitor products in OTC medicines are:
We are embedding new ways of working that are simplifying
• i n the USA: Metamucil (laxative), Pepcid (indigestion) and
the business and achieving greater efficiencies. It is our focus on
private label smoking control products
customer service, including support for new product launches, our
• i n the UK: Lemsip (cold remedy), Nurofen and Anadin
strong compliance culture, our commitment to health, safety and
(analgesics), and Nicorette and Nicotinell (smoking control
the environment, and our commitment to developing our people
treatments).
that have delivered strong results for GSK even as the external
In Oral healthcare the major competitors are Colgate-Palmolive’s environment has become more demanding.
Colgate and Procter & Gamble’s Crest.
Vaccine manufacturing, which is managed as an integral part of the
In Nutritional healthcare the major competitors to Horlicks are Biologicals business, is particularly complex as it requires the use of
Ovaltine and Milo malted food and chocolate drinks. Competitors innovative technologies and living micro-organisms. Sophisticated
to Ribena are primarily local fruit juice products, while Lucozade quality assurance and quality control procedures are in place
competes with other energy drinks. to ensure the vaccine’s quality and safety. This includes animal
use according to health authorities’ requirements. Due to their
biological nature, individual health authorities may subject vaccines
to a second control to guarantee the highest quality standards.15
GSK Annual Report 2009
Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
Research and development
Research and development – Pharmaceuticals Delivering these medicines to patients
GSK R&D has built one of the strongest pipelines of potential • Progression into late-stage development consists of optimising
new medicines in the industry. In 2009, Pharmaceutical R&D was both the physical product properties of the medicine, i.e. the
actively managing over 150 projects in human clinical trials across chemical steps and formulation required to manufacture and
the globe. Delivering this pipeline to patients safely and efficiently deliver it as well as the much larger scale studies in humans
is the number one goal. confirming efficacy and safety. The combination of the results
of these two steps into a regulatory file for submission to
Discovering potential medicines
regulatory agencies and approval for patient use is the
• O ur early research identifies the biological targets interfering responsibility of the regulatory team.
with a particular disease, and creates small molecules or
biopharmaceuticals that interact with these disease targets. • Medicines Development is organised by therapy areas in
Medicine Development Centres (MDCs): Cardiovascular and
• A refocus on the best science led us to create an Metabolic, Infectious Diseases, Neurosciences and Respiratory.
entrepreneurial environment in discovery, building on the Each MDC has ultimate accountability for developing
success of the existing model of Centres of Excellence for Drug experimental drugs into regulatory-approved medicines for
Discovery (CEDDs), groups focused around defined therapy patients. The MDCs are responsible for creating value through
areas. Taking the CEDD model one step further we created the execution of full product development plans and ensuring
a number of smaller Discovery Performance Units (DPUs) strong partnerships with the rest of R&D and GSK, in particular
within each CEDD. These are small, integrated groups of 5-70 the CEDDs, preclinical development, the regulatory and
scientists, who focus on a particular disease or pathway. There commercial groups, and manufacturing.
are now 36 DPUs in GSK. The number of DPUs in each CEDD
varies according to the science, and some standalone DPUs were • In 2009 emphasis was put on the simplification of the clinical
created to explore new therapy areas (such as Ophthalmology), development organisation, and on focusing investment on
or new ways of working (such as the academic DPU which forms project spend versus infrastructure. This reflects the increased
drug discovery collaborations with academia). focus of R&D on return on investment.
• T he CEDDs are now one year into their 3-year business plan Adapting our structure to maximise our chance to succeed
defining overall budget and clear objectives. The business • R&D’s units in Oncology and Biopharmaceuticals are
plans have been reviewed at the end of year 1, and our integrating the discovery and the late stage development
discovery organisation is on track to deliver GSK’s objectives. group. This allows us to build critical mass in those two growth
areas for GSK, and to focus on delivering a strong pipeline.
• W e continue to identify compounds from other companies
Both integrated units are now fully set up, and have been
that would enhance the portfolio and to create innovative
very successful at progressing their pipeline in 2009 (see
collaborations to ensure that we are seen as a partner of
pipeline chart).
choice for large and small companies. Our internal R&D
expertise allows us to have a strong position in business • Our China Discovery team focused on neurodegeneration
development, and makes us able to complement our internal and neuroinflammation celebrated its second anniversary
pipeline with acquisitions, in-licensing, co-marketing/ in 2009. It has grown to approximately 280 employees in
co-promotion deals, or future options collaborations. 2009, and has developed an impressive early stage portfolio.
As products enter the clinic, the team is now establishing
clinical capabilities.16
GSK Annual Report 2009
35P–60P
weiver
ssenisuB
Research and development
Governance Vaccines R&D
Key projects reaching significant milestones are reviewed GSK is active in the fields of vaccine research, development and
each month by a product management board, responsible for production and has a portfolio of over 30 vaccines approved for
determining if a medicine has met criteria for passing into the marketing. We have over 1,600 scientists devoted to discovering
next phase of development. innovative vaccines that contribute to the health and well-being
of people of all generations around the world. The discovery and
GSK’s Chief Medical Officer, working with the Global Safety
development of a new vaccine is a complex process requiring
Board, is ultimately accountable for oversight of all major decisions
long-term investment and with more than 20 vaccines in clinical
regarding patient safety. Our Global Safety Board is responsible
development, we have one of the strongest vaccine pipelines in the
internally for approving pivotal studies and investigating any issues
industry. Although vaccines have traditionally been used to ward
related to patient safety arising during the development programme
off illness, GSK’s vaccine division is working to develop therapeutic
and post-launch. Information from GSK clinical trials is widely and
immunotherapeutics aimed at educating the patient’s immune
easily available at the Clinical Study Register on GSK’s website.
system to identify and attack cancer cells in a highly specific manner.
The oversight of strategic issues and budget management across
Vaccine discovery involves many collaborations with academia and
R&D is owned by the R&D Executive team (RADEX).
the biotech industry to identify new vaccine antigens which are
Diseases of the developing world then expressed in yeast, bacteria or mammalian cells and purified
Continued investment in research into diseases of the developing to a very high level. This is followed by formulation of the clinical
world is essential if there is to be a long-term improvement in lots of the vaccine. This may involve mixing antigens with selected
the health of people who live in these regions. As part of our GSK novel proprietary adjuvant systems, which are combinations of
response to this challenge, we operate a drug discovery unit selected adjuvants designed to elicit the most appropriate immune
based at Tres Cantos (Spain), which focuses on malaria and response to a specific antigen. The right combination of antigen
tuberculosis. Additional R&D sites in the USA and the UK are and adjuvant system can help the body mobilise the most effective
focused on the development of new medicines to treat HIV/AIDS immunological pathway, which is designed to provide maximum
and drug resistant bacteria, while vaccine research is conducted protection against specific diseases in targeted populations.
in Rixensart (Belgium).
Once formulated, the candidate vaccine is evaluated from a safety
Through these R&D efforts, we are addressing the prevention and and efficacy perspective through the different phases of preclinical
treatment of all three of the World Health Organization’s (WHO) testing, then through the clinical trials involving healthy individuals.
priority infectious diseases. These will range from safety analysis in a small group of volunteers
in phase I, dose adjustment and proof of concept in phase II to
large-scale safety and efficacy analysis in phase III. The results
obtained during clinical trials and data regarding the development
of a quality and large-scale production process and facilities are then
combined into a regulatory file which is submitted to the authorities
in the countries where the vaccine will be made available.
After launch, post marketing studies of considerable size are set up
to assess vaccination programmes and to monitor vaccine safety.17
GSK Annual Report 2009
Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
Research and development
Animals and research
For ethical, regulatory and scientific reasons, research using animals
remains a small but vital part of research and development of new
medicines and vaccines. We only use animals where there is no
alternative and constantly strive to reduce the numbers used.
We are committed to maintaining high standards for the humane
care and treatment of all laboratory animals and undertake internal
and external review to assure these standards.
The vast majority of the experimental methods do not use animals.
We are actively engaged in research to develop and validate more
tests that either avoid the use of animals in research or reduce
the numbers needed. When animals are used in research, all due
measures are taken to prevent or minimise pain and distress.
We decided not to initiate funding of studies using great apes after
28th October 2008. This is a voluntary decision and provides a
tangible demonstration of our commitment to the 3Rs of animal
research, which advocates the replacement and reduction of animals
in research and refining of experiments to improve animal welfare.
We understand that use of animals for research purposes
commands a high level of public interest. Our Public Policy Position
‘The care and ethical use of animals in research’, and further
information and reports, are available on our website.
Research and development – Consumer
Healthcare
The continuous creation and development of innovative products
keeps our brands relevant, vibrant and valuable. Our portfolio
spans three major categories: OTC medicines, Oral healthcare
and Nutritional healthcare. For our major brands, dedicated R&D
teams, including Regulatory, partner with and work alongside their
commercial brand team colleagues in office-free hub environments
that foster collaboration and fast decision-making. Hubs have
quickly become a preferred way of working at our Innovation
Centres in Weybridge, UK, and Parsippany, USA, and we are
expanding this model rapidly into other key Consumer Healthcare
territories, including China and India.18
GSK Annual Report 2009
35P–60P
weiver
ssenisuB
Research and development
We have a full and diverse product development pipeline. Therapeutic Compound
Our key late stage projects are highlighted here, comprising
Biopharmaceuticals Arzerra (ofatumumab)†
both new chemical entities and new combinations and
formulations of existing assets. The most advanced status Arzerra (ofatumumab)†
is shown and includes 2009 approvals.
Arzerra (ofatumumab)†
Benlysta (belimumab)†
Key: ofatumumab†
Phase III otelixizumab†
Large comparative study (compound versus placebo and/or Prolia (denosumab)†
established treatment) in patients to establish clinical benefit
Syncria†
and safety.
Cardiovascular & Metabolic Arixtra
Filed
Following successful Phase III trials, we file the product for Avandamet XR
approval by the regulatory authorities. Avandia + simvastatin
Approval darapladib†
Only when approval is granted can we begin to market the
Neurosciences almorexant†
medicine or vaccine.
Horizant (1838262)†*
Our full pipeline is on pages 195 to 198 and on our website.
retigabine†
Oncology Avodart
Duodart (Avodart +
alpha blocker)
Votrient (pazopanib) +
Tyverb/Tykerb
Revolade/Promacta†
Revolade/Promacta†
Revolade/Promacta†
Tyverb/Tykerb
Tyverb/Tykerb
Tyverb/Tykerb
Tyverb/Tykerb
Votrient (pazopanib)
Votrient (pazopanib)
Votrient (pazopanib)
Respiratory 642444†
Relovair (642444† +
655698)
Vaccines Cervarix†
MAGE-A3 (ASCI)
MAGE-A3 (ASCI)
Menhibrix (Hib-MenCY-TT)
Mosquirix
New generation flu vaccine
Nimenrix (MenACWY-TT)
Simplirix
To find out more visit us at
† In-license or other alliance relationship with a third party
www.gsk.com
* See Note 40 to the financial statements, ‘Post balance
sheet events’.
ASCI = Antigen Specific Cancer Therapeutic19
GSK Annual Report 2009
Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
Research and development
Indication Phase 3 Filed Approved
chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (refractory patients)
diffuse large B cell lymphoma (relapsed patients)
follicular lymphoma (refractory patients)
systemic lupus erythematosus
rheumatoid arthritis
type 1 diabetes
post-menopausal osteoporosis
type 2 diabetes
treatment of acute coronary syndrome
type 2 diabetes – extended release
type 2 diabetes
atherosclerosis
insomnia
restless legs syndrome
epilepsy – partial seizures
reduction in the risk of prostate cancer
benign prostatic hyperplasia – fixed dose combination
inflammatory breast cancer
idiopathic thrombocytopaenic purpura
chronic liver disease induced thrombocytopaenia
hepatitis C induced thrombocytopaenia
breast cancer, first line therapy
breast cancer, adjuvant therapy
gastric cancer
head & neck squamous cell carcinomas (resectable disease)
renal cell cancer
ovarian cancer, maintenance therapy
sarcoma
COPD
COPD
cervical dysplasia and cancer prophylaxis caused by HPV 16/18
treatment of melanoma
treatment of non-small cell lung cancer
Neisseria meningitis groups C & Y disease & Haemophilus influenzae type b disease prophylaxis
malaria prophylaxis (Plasmodium falciparum)
seasonal influenza prophylaxis for the elderly
Neisseria meningitis groups A, C, W & Y disease prophylaxis
genital herpes prophylaxis20
GSK Annual Report 2009
35P–60P
weiver
ssenisuB
Our employees
GSK Values and Behaviours Employee numbers by region
Changes in the healthcare market over the past decade necessitate 1
1 USA (22,594)
the transformation of our business model to one that is more 3
2 Europe (42,048)
customer-centric and innovative; how we perform as a collective
organisation will determine our success. In order to be effective 3 Rest of World (35,271)
with growing complexity and exponential speed of change in our
external environment, GSK needs to create an internal learning
culture that is embodied by GSK Values and Behaviours.
For more details on GSK Values and Behaviours, see our Corporate
2
Responsibility Report.
Recruitment, talent management and leadership
Inclusion and diversity
development
We are committed to employment policies free from discrimination
In 2009, like every year, recruiting, retaining and developing
against existing or potential employees on the grounds of age,
our employees were critical to enhancing and sustaining our
race, ethnic and national origin, gender, sexual orientation, faith
performance and reputation. Proactive talent acquisition initiatives
or disability. GSK is committed to offering people with disabilities
underpin our ability to attract specialist and leadership talent
access to the full range of recruitment and career opportunities.
externally. Our assessment process is aligned to a core set of
Every effort is made to retain and support employees who become
competencies, of which ethics and integrity are central.
disabled while working at GSK. For more details on diversity
A global view of talent and strategic capabilities required looking measures, see our Corporate Responsibility Report.
at the quality, depth and breadth of our talent across the world.
Healthy and safe high performance
We need good succession plans, not just for senior roles but for
all our critical positions across the organisation. We maintain a To meet our mission and strategy, Employee Health and
robust leadership strategy to identify and develop our highly skilled Performance initiatives focus on the health factors that enable
leadership cadre and use a systematic, disciplined approach to employees to perform at the highest level by sustaining energy
leadership development, providing tools and programmes to help and engagement. The programmes developed to deliver this
leaders master skills needed to meet customer, employees and health strategy range from the traditional – such as immunisations,
investor expectations. In 2009, we launched a First Line Leader smoking control, and weight management – to cutting-edge
programme for all new leaders – whether new to GSK or new programmes in the areas of team and personal resilience,
to managing people. We also launched a GSK-wide mentoring ergonomics and Energy for Performance. These programmes,
scheme where each senior leader will mentor at least one available in many languages, are designed to address the root
individual in 2010. causes of excessive work pressure and low energy and engagement
at work and at home. They are complimented by our commitment
Performance and reward to flexible working that enables employees to do their best work
The performance and development planning (PDP) process means in an environment that helps them integrate their work and
employees have business-aligned objectives and behavioural personal lives. For more details on the scope and impact of these
goals. Our reward systems support high performance and help programmes, see our Corporate Responsibility Report.
to attract and retain the best people. Performance-based pay,
bonuses and share-based equity plans align employee interests
with business targets.
Communication and employee involvement
Our communication channels are designed to keep employees
informed, engaged and involved in activities across all areas of
our organisation. We encourage two-way, open and honest
communication with employees, and in 2009 improvements in
web usage technology engaged more employees.
Feedback and monitoring mechanisms are part of every major
communication event, and Q&A and feedback facilities are a core
feature of our web communications channels. Other broader
processes include an internal online opinion survey where in 2009
more than 93,000 employees were invited to provide feedback
on individual empowerment, employee engagement and our
company values.
As our business evolves, there will be changes that affect
employees and we remain committed to consulting on these
changes via a number of internal consultation forums and
discussions with the European Employee Consultation Forum
and similar bodies in countries where this is national practice.21
GSK Annual Report 2009
Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
Our responsibility
Commitment to corporate responsibility Programmes in other countries
GSK is committed to connecting business decisions to ethical, We have also introduced Orange Cards providing discounts on
social and environmental concerns. Thus, corporate responsibility certain GSK prescription medicines for eligible patients in a number
is an integral and embedded part of the way GSK does business. of other countries. The nature of the discounts varies between
countries and the ways in which the healthcare systems operate.
Improving access to medicines
Patient Advocacy
Access to healthcare in the developing world
There are no easy solutions to the challenge of providing The Patient Advocacy initiative has demonstrated significant
sustainable access to healthcare in developing countries. Poverty progress since its inception in 2002. Initially launched as a US
is the single biggest barrier. In many countries people do not have programme, it is now a critical initiative throughout GSK. Patient
enough food, access to a clean water supply, hospitals or clinics Advocacy teams in the USA and Europe share best practices and
in which to receive treatment and healthcare professionals to care established processes to optimise interaction with patient groups.
for them. Typically these relationships provide mutual opportunities:
to learn about patient needs and priorities and for patient groups
We are committed to playing a full part in addressing the to develop an understanding of drug development challenges.
healthcare challenges of the developing world by taking an
innovative, responsible and, above all, sustainable approach. In 2009, we continued to partner with patient groups on
GSK is making a vital contribution to developing country healthcare common issues: advocating for access to medicines and treatment,
through action in a number of areas including: preferential increasing funding for health programs and improving health
pricing of our anti-retrovirals and anti-malarials; tiered pricing of care delivery. We are considered to be a trustworthy partner
our vaccines; investing in R&D that targets diseases particularly with patient groups and we have worked with patient groups
affecting the developing world (see page 16); community and our trade associations to increase the transparency of all
investment activities and partnerships that foster effective of our interactions.
healthcare (see page 22); and seeking innovative partnerships
Our work with communities
and solutions. We cover our contribution to improving access to
We work as a partner with under-served communities in the
medicines extensively in our Corporate Responsibility Report.
developed and developing world supporting programmes that
We were a clear leader in the first Access to Medicines (ATM) Index are innovative, sustainable and bring real benefits to these
produced by the ATM Foundation in 2008. We will continue to communities. Our global community investment in 2009 was
build on our product, pricing and partnership commitments to help £163 million. This compares with £124 million in 2008 on a like
improve healthcare in the developing world. In February 2009, for like basis. This increase is due to expansion of our US patient
we announced a series of commitments for the UN defined list assistance programme, increased humanitarian product donations
of least developed countries, including a more flexible approach and scale up of our donation of albendazole for the Lymphatic
to intellectual property for research into neglected diseases, a Filariasis (LF) programme. Our 2009 giving comprised product
commitment to invest in healthcare infrastructure and price caps donations of £101 million, cash giving of £43 million, in-kind
on our patented medicines. A significant increase in resources from donations of £2 million plus costs of £17 million to manage
the global community is still needed to support R&D and to provide and deliver community programmes in almost 100 countries.
access to the resultant medicines and vaccines. The product donations include £80 million for GSK’s patient
assistance programmes, £13 million worth of albendazole for the
While much has been achieved, sustainable progress will only occur
programme and £8 million for humanitarian product donations.
if the significant barriers that stand in the way of better access to
Since 2008 our product donations have been valued at cost
healthcare are tackled as a shared responsibility by all sectors of
(average cost of goods) rather than wholesale price (WAC) as
global society – governments, international agencies, charities,
this is a more accurate reflection of the cost to GSK. We believe
academic institutions, the pharmaceutical industry and others.
we are the first pharmaceutical company to adopt this practice.
Access to medicines in the developed world For comparative purposes the total value of donations in 2009
Programmes in the USA using WAC for products would be £467 million compared with
We are working to provide access to medicines for people £343 million in 2008.
with limited financial resources and without prescription We do not operate a single charitable foundation for our
drug insurance. community investment programmes, but have a number of
For uninsured Americans who do not qualify for Medicare or country-based foundations and their 2009 grants are included in
Medicaid, GSK and nine other pharmaceutical companies created the investment total.
Together Rx Access, a programme for qualified individuals offering
reductions in the pharmacy cost on more than 300 medicines.
Over 2 million Together Rx Access cardholders saved about
$20 million in 2009.22
GSK Annual Report 2009
35P–60P
weiver
ssenisuB
Our responsibility
Our cash giving was targeted primarily at health and education PHASE
initiatives as follows: The PHASE programme (Personal Hygiene And Sanitation
Education), initiated by us in 1998, is now providing education to
5 hundreds of thousands of school children in 13 countries to improve
their health and hygiene to fight infectious diseases. In 2009 we
1 Health (52%)
expanded our programme in Uganda, and extended PHASE to the
2 Education (17%)
4
slum areas of Mumbai, India. We have also brought PHASE to the
3 Arts and Culture (5%) UK and it is being piloted in three schools in Hounslow, near our
1
3 4 Environment (4%) global headquarters.
5 Other (22%)
Humanitarian product donations
2
During 2009, we donated essential products, such as antibiotics,
through non-profit partners including AmeriCares, Direct Relief
Global Health Programmes International, MAP International and Project HOPE, to support
humanitarian relief efforts and community healthcare. Following
Eliminating lymphatic filariasis (LF)
a series of natural disasters in the Asia-Pacific region and Central
Our effort to eliminate LF, one of the world’s most disabling
America, the total value of our international humanitarian product
diseases, continued in close partnership with the governments
donations was £8 million at average cost.
of countries where the disease is endemic, the World Health
Organization and over 40 partner organisations. As a founding Immediately following the devastating earthquake that struck
partner and leader in the global elimination effort, we are Haiti in January 2010, GSK provided donations of medicines of
committed to donating as much of the anti-parasitic drug over £1 million from stocks held in warehouses of several non-
albendazole as required to reach the one billion people at risk in profit partners. We are continuing to donate requested medicines
over 80 countries. In 2009, 425 million albendazole treatments to support medium and longer-term needs. We have also donated
were donated to 28 countries. We have donated over 1.4 billion £250,000 to the British Red Cross to support the deployment of a
albendazole treatments since the global elimination programme Mass Sanitation Unit for water and sanitation needs.
started in 2000.
Community initiatives
Positive Action on HIV/AIDS We are dedicated to strengthening the fabric of communities
Positive Action is our pioneering global programme working through providing health and education initiatives and support
with communities affected by AIDS. Started in 1992, it supports for local civic and cultural institutions that improve the quality
community-based organisations to deliver effective HIV and AIDS of life. In the UK, we contributed £5.6 million in 2009 to our
education, prevention and healthcare services. In July 2009 we continuing programme of charitable activities supporting over
announced the creation of a new Positive Action for Children 80 organisations in health, medical research, science education,
Fund. The Fund will make £50 million available over ten years to the arts and the environment.
help prevent mother-to-child transmission of HIV and to support
Programmes in North America at a national and local level focused
orphans and vulnerable children. This new Fund will complement
on improving public education, increasing access to healthcare for
our ongoing work and support to the HIV community. With the
children and the homeless, and healthcare (prevention/access) for
launch of ViiV Healthcare, our Positive Action programmes will be
people dealing with breast or gynaecologic cancers. GSK’s IMPACT
managed by this new HIV-focused company.
Awards recognise organisations that have significantly improved
The GlaxoSmithKline African Malaria Partnership the health of their local communities and were expanded beyond
In 2009, Coalitions Against Malaria created by our malaria UK and Philadelphia to reach communities near our Research
advocacy programme ‘Mobilising for Malaria’ continued to Triangle Park, North Carolina facility. Total funding for our North
increase awareness of malaria and mobilise resources in the American programmes was $20 million.
target countries: UK, Belgium, France, Ethiopia, Mozambique
GSK continues to be a CommunityMark company – this award
and Cameroon. This year we announced the launch of the next
for excellence in community investment was awarded in 2008 for
phase of the African Malaria Partnership with projects focused on
three years.
community health workers and education/behaviour change in
the community. Four new malaria grants were awarded in 2009,
with a total commitment of £1.5 million over three years. They
include partnerships with: Save the Children (UK) in Kenya; Family
Health International in Ghana; African Medical and Research
Foundation (AMREF) in Tanzania; and Planned Parenthood
Federation of Nigeria.23
GSK Annual Report 2009
Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
Our responsibility
Health initiatives
Our contribution to improve healthcare included the following grants:
Non-profit partner Amount in 2009 Purpose of grant
Children’s Health Fund $1,461,000 To continue the Referral Management Initiative (RMI) which
USA ensures continuity of specialist medical care for high-risk children
who are often homeless and for general support
GSK IMPACT Awards £787,000 To recognise excellence in non-profit community health
UK and USA organisations. Charities receive unrestricted grants for their
work dealing with diverse and difficult social issues and access
to healthcare
Medical Research Charities £400,000 To support medical research programmes
UK
Education initiatives
Non-profit partner Amount in 2009 Purpose of grant
Institute for a Competitive Workforce $100,000 To improve education and create a skilled workforce for the future,
USA working in partnership with a broad business coalition and staffed
by the US Chamber of Commerce
‘Science in the Summer’ $558,000 To teach basic scientific concepts and inspire school children
Philadelphia, Pittsburgh and North Carolina through an enquiry-based science education programme
Project ENTHUSE £200,000 To support Continuing Professional Development (CPD) for science
UK teachers and ultimately encourage children to engage with science
and pursue careers in science and technology
Royal Society of Chemistry £100,000 To support a programme to target science teachers in the UK, who
UK are not chemistry specialists, and provide them with the key skills
and confidence to be effective in their chemistry teaching
Further information about GSK grants and programmes are available on www.gsk.com.
Employee involvement
Our employees are encouraged to contribute to their local communities through employee volunteering schemes. Support includes
employee time, cash donations to charities where employees volunteer and matching gift programmes.
Through the US GSK Matching Gift Program, we matched 15,000 employee and retiree gifts at a value of $4.7 million in 2009 plus
over $1 million to the United Way campaign. GSK’s GIVE programme provided grants of over $314,000 to 353 organisations where
US employees volunteered and £272,000 to 410 UK-based non-profit organisations via the GSK Making a Difference programme.
In 2009, our Group-wide volunteer initiative was launched to give every GSK employee one paid day off each year to volunteer for
a good cause. Employees supported a wide range of charities and projects including work in local schools, shelters for the homeless,
community gardens, nursing homes and aiding communities affected by natural disasters.
The GSK PULSE Volunteer Partnership is a new initiative launched in April 2009 that empowers high-performing employees to
volunteer for a period of three to six months lending their professional expertise. PULSE volunteers work full-time with one of our
partner non-governmental organisations (NGO) to create sustainable change for impoverished communities around the world. From
our 2009 in-take, we had 58 PULSE volunteers, working in 18 different countries for 25 non-governmental organisations. Employees
continue to receive their GSK salary during their placement and in 2009 this represented an in-kind donation of £428,000.24
GSK Annual Report 2009
35P–60P
weiver
ssenisuB
Our responsibility
Responsibility and the environment Mass efficiency
GlaxoSmithKline’s environmental responsibility spans our demand Increasing the efficiency with which we use materials is a priority.
for raw materials, through converting them into products, to their In 2009 we increased a target originally introduced in 2005, aiming
impacts after use. for a 2.5% efficiency by 2015 for new products launched after
2010. For the first time, we also set a mass efficiency target for
Our vision for environmental sustainability is ultimately to transform
our manufacturing sites to achieve additional improvements after
how we do business following the principles of industrial ecology,
they take over processes from R&D. Our long-term aspiration is
using renewable resources and converting wastes to by-products
to achieve 5% efficiency by 2020 – five times the typical level in
that become inputs to other processes.
the pharmaceutical industry, which will reduce input materials and
The first steps towards this goal are to optimise the efficiency of waste by 80%.
our processes, minimising the use of energy and other resources
Mass efficiency (average 2005-2009)
and the amount of waste we generate. In doing so, we also
need to reduce carbon dioxide emissions from energy used, as a
contribution to tackling climate change.
Our environmental activities are overseen by a Sustainability
Council composed of senior executives. We manage environmental
issues (as well as occupational health and safety) using a
management system aligned with recognised international
standards. Our central audit group includes environmental issues in
its routine audits of our sites and processes.
Strategy and plans
Our strategy has three elements, beginning with embedding
the environmental fundamentals such as energy management
and waste reduction to eliminate adverse impacts from our
operations. The second stage is to embrace sustainability in all of
our businesses, developing a culture of product stewardship and Climate change
sustainable resource use. The strategy also requires transparency,
Our biggest direct climate impact comes from propellants used in
informing stakeholders of our actions and performance – we
inhalers for diseases such as asthma. We have reduced this impact
provide fuller disclosure in our Corporate Responsibility Report.
by replacing CFC gases and continue to research ways to minimise
We have a ten-year strategic plan with targets that are refreshed greenhouse gases released by these products.
every five years. In 2010 we will update the plan with new, more
Since 2007 we have been implementing a climate change
challenging targets to 2020. Key targets for 2010 that we have
programme with ambitious targets for our emissions and energy
been pursuing since 2006, and progress towards them, include:
use in operations and transport. We are aiming for a 20%
• a 20% reduction per unit of sales in energy use and emissions reduction per unit of sales by 2010 and a cut of 45% by 2015
from operations and transport – we have achieved 6% (from 2006 levels). In 2009 emissions and energy consumption
reduction in energy use and 5% in emissions per unit of sales fell by 5% and 6% respectively. These reductions
follow two years of limited progress, which means that we need an
• 2% average material efficiency for products transferred from
outstanding performance in 2010 to meet our interim 20% target.
research and development – the current average is 2.8%
Energy reduction has been identified as a key objective for the
• 2% annual reduction in water use per unit of sales – we have
business. As a result, energy consumption is now included in
achieved 15% reduction since 2006.
the key business metrics and in 2009 the remuneration of senior
managers in manufacturing was linked to the achievement of
energy reduction targets. We have also created a central fund
to finance energy saving projects. A climate change team has
identified more than 800 energy saving projects which have
helped in the last two years to avoid around 85,000 tonnes of
greenhouse gas emissions.
%
ycneiciffe
ssaM
5.00
4.00
3.00
2.76
2.00
1.76
1.05
1.00
0.86
0.47
0.00
Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 4 Transferred
to manufacturing
Key: Average (weighted average)25
GSK Annual Report 2009
Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
Our responsibility
As well as mitigating our climate change impact, we also aim to
identify ways that we can respond to changing disease patterns
caused by climate change.
GSK’s carbon footprint
Million tonnes CO equivalent
2
0.29
0.27
0.49
0.49
1.74
1.68
4.75
4.24
2008 2009
Key:
■ Climate impact from use of inhalers by patient
■ Climate impact from operations energy
■ Climate impact from travel and transport
■ Climate impact from other
Other environmental concerns
Sustainability requires a holistic view of everything that we do,
especially relating to the optimal use of all resources. Water is a
particularly important natural resource, and we recognise that
businesses can play a positive role in managing it more sustainably.
We endorsed the United Nations CEO Water Mandate in 2009.
Water consumption in 2009 fell by 5% (per unit of sales), which
exceeds our target.
We also have targets for improving the quality of wastewater,
reducing waste disposal and emissions to air. In 2009 we
exceeded targets in each of these areas and are on track to
completely eliminate ozone-depleting CFCs by the end of
2010. Our environmental audit scores are also moving close
to our 2010 targets.
Packaging provides opportunities to reduce resources use and
we have several projects to reduce the environmental impact of
packaging. For instance, we are now using lighter toothpaste
caps, saving 90 tonnes of plastic a year.
You can read more about our environmental performance
and other aspects of sustainability in our Corporate Responsibility
Report which may be viewed on line at: www.gsk.com.26
GSK Annual Report 2009
35P–60P
weiver
ssenisuB
Regulation
Regulation – Pharmaceuticals Regulation – Consumer Healthcare
Region and country-specific laws and regulations define The consumer healthcare industry is subject to national regulation
the information needed to show the safety and efficacy of comparable to that for prescription medicines for the testing,
pharmaceutical products, as well as governing their testing, approval, manufacturing, labelling and marketing of products.
approval, manufacturing, labelling and marketing. High standards of technical appraisal frequently involve a lengthy
These regulatory requirements are a major factor in approval process before a new product is launched.
determining whether a marketable product may be
January 2009 saw the history-making first for the OTC industry
successfully developed and approved.
when the European Medicines Agency granted centralised
In this highly regulated environment, there is increasing approval of the weight loss medicine alli. This resulted in the
cooperation and exchange of information among the major pan-European launch of alli as the first licenced weight loss
regulatory authorities. Consequently, in 2009 we have treatment available without a prescription across all 27 EU
transformed the structure of our Regulatory Affairs department countries. With additional national licences, alli has now been
to better match the global regulatory environment in which we granted approval in 38 countries.
operate. The existing US, EU and International groups have been
Value for money
integrated into one department, Global Regulatory Affairs.
This change enables us to more effectively formulate global Payers around the world are concerned about the cost of
strategies to obtain regulatory approvals for GSK products, based healthcare and the pricing of medicines. The requirement to
on regional expertise. The new structure will also make us better satisfy healthcare purchasers on value for money is becoming
positioned to interact with our regulatory customers in this an additional hurdle for product acceptance over and above the
dynamic, globally-connected external environment. regulatory tests of safety, efficacy and quality.
Although the evaluation of benefit and risk continue to be Price controls
paramount considerations for the approval of a new drug in the In many countries the prices of pharmaceutical products are
USA, there is an increased focus on the safety of medicines. The controlled by law. Governments may also influence prices through
FDA Amendments Act of 2007 mandates a rigorous FDA review their control of national healthcare organisations, which may bear
of safety from approval through the post-marketing phase of a large part of the cost of supplying medicines to consumers.
the product, and the FDA is examining better ways to identify
Recent government healthcare reforms in countries such as France,
counterfeit medicines and to communicate new risk information
Spain and Germany may restrict pricing and reimbursement.
to the public. We remain engaged in these key areas of interest.
Currently in the USA, there are no government price controls over
In Europe, new regulations aimed at strengthening the safety
private sector purchases, but federal law requires pharmaceutical
monitoring of medicines, improving citizens’ access to reliable
manufacturers to pay prescribed rebates on certain drugs to
information on medicines and strengthening EU laws to protect
be eligible for reimbursement under several state and federal
citizens better from the threats posed by fake medicines are under
healthcare programmes. In 2009, the US President and Congress
discussion by EU legislators. Meanwhile, preparation continues
dedicated much of the year’s legislative process to reforming
for the implementation in 2010 of new rules aimed at simplifying
America’s healthcare system to drive down cost, improve quality,
and harmonising the EU regulatory framework on changes to
and increase access to millions of Americans without health
authorised medicinal products. It is hoped that these changes will
insurance. These reforms had the potential to create positive
minimise inefficiencies in the procedures, and reduce the overall
changes in the US healthcare system and expand access to GSK’s
administrative burden.
products. They also had the potential to increase prescribed
The regulatory environment in Emerging Markets and Asia-Pacific rebates under government-run programmes and change the
continues to evolve, with a number of countries continuing to balance between private and public sector purchases. The pressure
develop their regulatory review systems. GSK actively participates to control healthcare costs and the need for health reform will
in a number of specific regional and national regulatory continue into 2010 and beyond. Issues such as cross-border trade,
initiatives, which provide opportunities for meaningful scientific the acceleration of generics to market, comparative effectiveness
and regulatory dialogue between industry, agencies and other research, and pharmaceutical pricing will continue to be part of the
stakeholders. GSK continues to include broader sets of patient ongoing reform debate in the USA. Fortunately, GSK is positioned
populations from a number of these countries in medicine to be a constructive contributor to these debates since there has
development programmes in order to increase global patient access been increased recognition that chronic disease is the primary
to new innovative medicines, and optimise regulatory approvals. driver of healthcare spending and pharmaceutical products deliver
important interventions that help hold down healthcare costs.27
GSK Annual Report 2009
Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
World market, economy and outlook
World market – pharmaceuticals World economy
The world economy deteriorated further during the early part of
Global pharmaceutical sales in 2009 were £468 billion compared
2009 as the international financial crisis deepened. The economies
with £366 billion in 2008.
of many countries contracted during the year, although some
emerging markets still showed growth.
World market by Value % of
geographic region £bn total Aggressive cuts in official interest rates, fiscal stimulus measures
USA 187 40 and national initiatives to support the international banking system
Europe 131 28 led to some improvements towards the end of the year. However,
France 25 5 the economic recovery during 2010 is likely to remain fragile and
uneven, with the emerging markets providing the strongest growth.
Germany 24 5
Italy 16 3 Equity prices strengthened during 2009, with the FTSE 100 Index
UK 12 3 increasing by 22% and the Dow Jones Industrial Average by 19%.
Rest of World 150 32 Inflationary pressures remained well under control, however, and
Emerging markets 66 14 only a modest increase in inflation is expected in 2010.
Asia Pacific 20 4
The potential healthcare reforms in the USA create some
Japan 50 11
uncertainty for 2010 but our strategy is designed to put the
Canada 11 2
Group in a position to be able to deliver long-term sustainable
Total 468 100 financial performance despite such uncertainties.
Market growth on a CER basis was USA 3.6%, Europe 4% and Outlook
Rest of World 9.9%. In 2009, GSK returned to sales growth. The company’s strategy is
At 30th September 2009, GSK had two of the world’s top 60 delivering and it is confident of its prospects in 2010. GSK believes
pharmaceutical products. These were Seretide/Advair and Valtrex. it is moving to a position where it can deliver its goal of long-term
sustainable financial performance.
World market – Value % of
top six therapeutic classes £bn total
Central nervous system 74 16
Cardiovascular 68 15
Alimentary tract and metabolic 57 12
Antineoplastic/Immunomodulatory 52 11
Anti-infectives (bacterial,
viral and fungal) excluding
vaccines 50 11
Respiratory 32 7
(Note: data based on 12 months to 30th September 2009)
Data for market share and market growth rates are GSK estimates
based on the most recent data from independent external sources,
and where appropriate, are valued in Sterling at relevant exchange rates.
Figures quoted for product market share reflect sales by GSK
and licensees.35P–60P
weiver
ssenisuB
28
Financial review 2009
Pharmaceutical turnover Cardiovascular and urogenital
All growth rates included in the review of turnover are at constant Cardiovascular and urogenital sales increased 8% to £2.3 billion.
exchange rates (CER) unless otherwise stated. Sterling growth
Continued strong growth of key products such as Arixtra, up 29%
rates may be found in the tables of pharmaceutical turnover by
to £254 million, Avodart, up 16% to £530 million, and Lovaza,
therapeutic areas on page 29 and by geographic region on page 30.
up 31% to £450 million, were partly offset by generic competition
Pharmaceutical turnover grew 2% to £23.7 billion. Pharmaceuticals to Coreg.
growth was helped by sales of pandemic related products,
Metabolic
including Relenza and H1N1 vaccine products. On a regional basis,
Metabolic sales decreased 14% to £1.2 billion.
the USA declined 13% reflecting continued erosion of several
products due to generic competition. Strong performances were Sales of Avandia, down 16% to £771 million, continued to decline
delivered in Europe (up 9%), Emerging Markets (up 20%) and Asia across all regions. Bonviva/Boniva sales declined in the USA by 16%
Pacific/Japan (up 16%). The sales contribution of Stiefel, which was but grew in Europe and the Rest of the World.
acquired on 22nd July 2009, totalled £248 million.
Oncology and emesis
Pharmaceutical turnover by therapeutic area Oncology and emesis sales increased 10% to £0.6 billion.
GSK turnover grew by 2% in 2009 as the impact of US generic
Tyverb/Tykerb, up 45% to £169 million, grew strongly in Europe
competition to a range of GSK’s products, lower Avandia sales and
and the Rest of World following product approvals gained during
a declining HIV business was more than offset by strong growth of
2008. Zofran declined 11% as a result of generic competition.
key products such as Seretide/Advair, Avodart, Lovaza, Relenza and
the vaccines franchise including the H1N1 pandemic vaccine. Vaccines
Vaccine sales increased 30% to £3.7 billion.
Respiratory
Respiratory sales increased 5% to £7.0 billion. Pandemic vaccine sales of £883 million were recorded during the
year, most of which were delivered in the fourth quarter, as GSK
Seretide/Advair grew 5% to £5.0 billion, with especially strong
partnered with governments to respond to the H1N1 pandemic.
growth in Emerging Markets (up 21% to £276 million) and Japan
(up 79% to £195 million). Ventolin sales grew 26% to Sales of GSK’s new Synflorix vaccine totalled £73 million, reflecting
£477 million, driven by its performance in the USA where sales launches in several markets and the beginning of shipments to the
more than doubled to £153 million. Veramyst sales rose 72% Brazilian Government as part of the 10-year, $1.5 billion agreement
to £142 million. signed in August 2009. Other strong contributors to growth for
the year included Boostrix (up 73% to £139 million), Cervarix
Anti-virals
(up 38% to £187 million) and Rotarix (up 50% to £282 million).
Anti-virals increased 12% to £4.2 billion.
Partially offsetting these performances, sales of Infanrix/Pediarix fell
Relenza sales were £720 million in 2009 (2008 – £57 million) 15% to £649 million primarily as a result of the continued impact
reflecting the successful capacity expansion to meet government of increased competition in the DTPa sector in the USA. Hepatitis
orders across the world and a strong retail performance in Japan vaccines sales also fell (down 11% to £665 million) in part due to a
(£191 million). Sales of Valtrex declined 8% to £1.3 billion as a competitor product returning to the US market.
result of generic competition to the product in the USA which
began in November 2009.
Sales of HIV medicines totalled £1.6 billion (down 7%) for the year.
Epzicom sales grew 8% to £546 million but this was more than
offset by declines across the rest of the portfolio. ViiV Healthcare,
the new specialist HIV company established by GSK and Pfizer,
was officially launched on 3rd November 2009.
CNS
CNS sales decreased 44% to £1.9 billion.
The majority of GSK’s CNS franchise is impacted by generic
competition in the USA. The Wellbutrin decline of 67% primarily
reflected the sale of Wellbutrin XL in the USA to Biovail in the
second quarter of 2009.
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
29
Financial review 2009
Pharmaceutical turnover by therapeutic area 2009
Total USA Europe Rest of World
Therapeutic area/ % of 2009 2008 Growth 2009 Growth 2009 Growth 2009 Growth
major products total £m £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Respiratory 29 6,977 5,817 5 20 3,323 3 22 2,201 3 11 1,453 14 30
Avamys/Veramyst 142 72 72 97 68 2 21 45 >100 >100 29 >100 >100
Flixonase/Flonase 171 186 (20) (8) 27 (56) (48) 43 (21) (17) 101 2 23
Flixotide/Flovent 775 677 – 14 396 5 25 178 (4) 2 201 (6) 9
Seretide/Advair 4,977 4,137 5 20 2,592 1 20 1,609 5 14 776 23 39
Serevent 236 263 (19) (10) 73 (14) 1 116 (18) (15) 47 (31) (15)
Ventolin 477 339 26 41 153 >100 >100 150 1 9 174 2 12
Zyrtec 75 38 58 97 – – – – – – 75 58 97
Anti-virals 18 4,150 3,206 12 29 1,897 – 19 1,074 16 26 1,179 32 56
HIV 1,605 1,513 (7) 6 716 (6) 12 635 (10) – 254 (3) 7
Agenerase, Lexiva 178 160 (4) 11 99 1 19 62 (8) 2 17 (13) 6
Combivir 425 433 (13) (2) 187 (12) 4 151 (17) (9) 87 (7) –
Epivir 129 139 (19) (7) 48 (13) 2 49 (24) (16) 32 (18) (6)
Epzicom/Kivexa 546 442 8 24 223 6 25 244 6 17 79 25 44
Trizivir 201 212 (17) (5) 104 (17) (2) 82 (21) (11) 15 – 7
Ziagen 105 106 (13) (1) 51 (4) 13 35 (14) (3) 19 (28) (24)
Valtrex 1,294 1,195 (8) 8 942 (9) 8 160 – 11 192 (13) 6
Relenza 720 57 >100 >100 137 >100 >100 212 >100 >100 371 >100 >100
Zeffix 217 188 (1) 15 17 (7) 13 29 (4) 7 171 – 17
Central nervous 8 1,870 2,897 (44) (35) 651 (69) (64) 574 (7) 2 645 4 25
system
Imigran/Imitrex 266 687 (65) (61) 123 (79) (78) 96 (8) – 47 (2) 15
Lamictal 500 926 (53) (46) 267 (68) (62) 154 (4) 5 79 6 16
Requip 209 266 (30) (21) 26 (78) (75) 138 (5) 4 45 16 45
Requip XL 123 43 >100 >100 32 >100 >100 89 >100 >100 2 – –
Seroxat/Paxil 523 514 (15) 2 42 (51) (47) 99 (21) (14) 382 (5) 19
Treximet 55 25 88 >100 55 84 >100 – – – – – –
Wellbutrin, Wellbutrin XL 132 342 (67) (61) 88 (76) (72) 30 50 67 14 (7) –
Cardiovascular and 10 2,298 1,847 8 24 1,415 8 28 583 3 14 300 18 32
urogenital
Arixtra 254 170 29 49 141 35 60 95 18 34 18 55 64
Avodart 530 399 16 33 319 11 32 148 13 25 63 51 62
Coreg 172 203 (29) (15) 171 (28) (15) – – – 1 (67) (67)
Fraxiparine 229 226 (7) 1 – – – 173 (10) (3) 56 6 17
Levitra 75 60 7 25 70 4 23 4 33 33 1 – –
Lovaza 450 290 31 55 448 31 55 – – – 2 100 100
Vesicare 104 71 24 46 104 24 46 – – – – – –
Volibris 19 2 >100 >100 – – – 18 >100 >100 1 – –
Metabolic 5 1,181 1,191 (14) (1) 581 (17) (2) 275 (15) (6) 325 (8) 6
Avandia products 771 805 (16) (4) 425 (17) (2) 171 (21) (14) 175 (9) 1
Avandia 462 512 (21) (10) 276 (22) (8) 67 (24) (18) 119 (18) (9)
Avandamet 268 256 (8) 5 122 (6) 12 99 (19) (11) 47 19 31
Bonviva/Boniva 255 237 (7) 8 155 (16) (1) 89 7 20 11 57 57
Anti-bacterials 7 1,592 1,429 2 11 173 (16) (1) 662 (4) 4 757 13 22
Augmentin 667 587 4 14 45 (22) (8) 295 – 8 327 14 23
Oncology and emesis 3 629 496 10 27 308 7 27 204 10 21 117 23 39
Hycamtin 172 140 7 23 100 4 23 59 10 20 13 20 30
Promacta 13 – – – 13 – – – – – – – –
Tyverb/Tykerb 169 102 45 66 54 (4) 15 75 62 79 40 >100 >100
Zofran 109 110 (11) (1) 9 >100 >100 52 (24) (17) 48 (5) 9
Vaccines 16 3,706 2,539 30 46 815 9 30 1,744 37 51 1,147 37 52
Boostrix 139 70 73 99 73 77 >100 40 38 54 26 >100 >100
Cervarix 187 125 38 50 4 – – 138 23 33 45 100 >100
Fluarix/FluLaval 211 215 (13) (2) 73 (27) (14) 71 (18) (9) 67 17 29
Flu pandemic 883 66 >100 >100 187 >100 >100 525 >100 >100 171 >100 >100
Hepatitis (Engerix/ 665 665 (11) – 257 (21) (7) 262 (8) – 146 2 15
Fendrix, Havrix, Twinrix)
Infanrix, Pediarix 649 682 (15) (5) 134 (47) (37) 406 (3) 8 109 5 17
Rotarix 282 167 50 69 76 >100 >100 53 14 23 153 33 49
Synflorix 73 – – – – – – 32 – – 41 – –
Other 4 1,063 959 1 11 17 – 6 364 7 13 682 (2) 10
23,466 20,381 1 15 9,180 (13) 3 7,681 9 18 6,605 16 32
Stiefel products 248 – –
100 23,714 2 16
CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates. £% represents growth at actual exchange rates. Turnover by quarter is given in the financial record on pages 186 to 189.
GSK Annual Report 200935P–60P
weiver
ssenisuB
30
Financial review 2009
Regional analysis Consumer Healthcare turnover
The turnover reported in the table below represents sales invoiced
% of 2009 2008 Growth*
by GSK’s local entity to its customers in the local market plus total £m £m CER% £%
co-promotion income within each market.
Over-the-counter
medicines 50 2,319 1,935 8 20
2009 2008 Growth*
alli 203 75 >100 >100
£m £m CER% £%
Breathe Right 92 81 (1) 14
USA 9,180 8,894 (13) 3
Cold sore franchise 96 89 (3) 8
Europe 7,681 6,483 9 18
Nicotine replacement therapy 339 299 (1) 13
Emerging Markets 2,973 2,290 20 30
Panadol franchise 393 324 10 21
Asia Pacific/Japan 2,700 1,918 16 41
Tums 106 91 (1) 16
Other trading‡ 1,180 796 31 48
Oral healthcare 32 1,484 1,240 7 20
23,714 20,381 2 16
Aquafresh franchise 496 452 (1) 10
* CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates. £% represents growth Biotene 26 1 >100 >100
at actual exchange rates.
Denture care 336 271 8 24
‡ Including Stiefel
Sensodyne franchise 457 363 13 26
USA
Nutritional healthcare 18 851 796 3 7
Sales in the USA declined 13% to £9.2 billion, principally reflecting
Lucozade 376 382 (3) (2 )
continued decline of Avandia (down 22%), competition to
Horlicks 255 204 17 25
Infanrix/Pediarix (down 47%), a return to market of a competitor
Ribena 160 161 (4) (1)
to the Hepatitis franchise (down 21%) and generic competition to
significant products such as Lamictal (down 68%), Imigran (down 100 4,654 3,971 7 17
79%), Valtrex (down 9%), Requip (down 78%) and Coreg (down
28%). In addition, Wellbutrin XL (down 82%), was sold to Biovail * CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates. £% represents growth
in Q2 2009. These declines were partly offset by significant sales at actual exchange rates. Turnover by quarter is given in the financial record
on pages 190 to 191.
of Relenza and pandemic vaccines, a doubling of Ventolin sales,
good growth of Lovaza (up 31%) and contributions from recently Total Consumer Healthcare sales for the year rose 7% to
launched products such as Boostrix and Rotarix. £4.7 billion, with growth in all regions and categories.
Europe OTC medicines
Sales in Europe increased 9% to £7.7 billion with continued OTC product sales grew 8% to £2.3 billion in 2009, driven by sales
growth of Seretide and Relenza and particularly strong vaccines of Panadol (up 10% to £393 million) and alli, which more than
growth, driven by pandemic vaccine, offsetting the impact of doubled to £203 million, as a result of launches throughout Europe
generic competition to a number of products and continued price which began in April 2009. Sales of nicotine replacement therapy
cuts from governments across the region. products declined by 1%.
Emerging Markets Oral healthcare
Sales in Emerging Markets increased 20% to £3.0 billion with Sales of Oral healthcare products rose 7% to £1.5 billion. Sensodyne
strong growth across the region and all therapeutic areas, helped performed strongly with sales up 13% to £457 million. Denture care
by the acquisitions of the UCB and BMS businesses in different sales grew 8% to £336 million. Sales of Aquafresh declined 1%, as a
countries of the region. reduction in the US ‘white trays’ market offset growth of 5% in the US
Aquafresh toothpaste brands, which were helped by the launch of the
Asia Pacific/Japan
new iso-active product.
Sales in Asia Pacific/Japan grew 16% to £2.7 billion reflecting
continued Seretide/Advair growth, strong Relenza sales, particularly Nutritional healthcare
to the retail market in Japan, and strong vaccines growth. Nutritional healthcare sales grew 3% to £0.9 billion, driven by the very
strong performance of Horlicks (up 17% to £255 million) partly offset
by a decline in Lucozade sales (down 3% to £376 million) which was
impacted by lower sales in the ‘impulse’ market of the UK market.
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
31
Financial review 2009
Results before major restructuring and The restructuring activities that follow, and relate to, such
total results acquisitions are of the same nature as those undertaken under
the Operational Excellence programme and are also carried out
In October 2007 the Board approved the implementation of a
following a detailed formal plan. Management therefore considers
detailed formal plan for, and GSK announced, a significant new
it appropriate to present the costs of these restructuring activities
Operational Excellence restructuring programme. A second formal
in the same manner. The acquisition of Stiefel Laboratories, Inc.
plan, representing a significant expansion of the Operational
in July 2009 is the only acquisition during the year that meets the Excellence programme, was approved by the Board and
criteria set out above. This is the only acquisition during the year
announced in February 2009. Having conducted a further series
where the costs incurred as a direct result of a related restructuring
of business reviews, GSK has announced a further expansion of
programme has been included in the major restructuring column.
the restructuring programme to deliver £0.5 billion of incremental
The restructuring costs expected to be incurred as a direct result of
pre-tax savings by 2012. Approximately 70% of these savings will
this acquisition are estimated to be approximately £205 million,
be directed to the bottom line to enhance profitability, with the
of which £71 million was charged in 2009. The restructuring
remainder being reinvested in the business. The charges for this
costs incurred as a direct result of the acquisition of Reliant
incremental programme are expected to total £0.9 billion and be
Pharmaceuticals Inc., the only other acquisition since October
phased: 65% in 2010 and 30% in 2011, with the balance mostly
2007 that meets the criteria set out above, were all charged
in 2012. In total, approximately 70% will be cash expenditures
and paid in 2008.
and 30% will be asset write-downs. Cumulative savings for
the new programme will be phased approximately as follows: The Group’s results before the costs of the Operational Excellence
£150 million in 2010, £350 million in 2011 and the majority programme and acquisition-related restructuring programmes
of the balance in 2012. meeting the criteria described above are also presented in a
separate column in the income statement and are described as
The restructuring programme, comprising these detailed formal
‘Results before major restructuring’. This presentation, which
plans, covers all areas of GSK’s business, including manufacturing,
GSK intends to apply consistently to future major restructuring
selling, R&D and infrastructure. With an estimated total cost of
programmes that have a material impact on GSK’s operating results
approximately £4.5 billion, the expanded programme is expected
and on the manner in which GSK’s business is conducted, has
to deliver annual pre-tax savings of approximately £2.2 billion
been adopted to show clearly the Group’s results both before and
by the time it is substantially complete in 2012. Approximately
after the costs of these restructuring programmes. Management
50% of these costs were incurred by 31st December 2009,
believes that this presentation assists shareholders in gaining a
approximately 30% are expected to be incurred in 2010 and the
clearer understanding of the Group’s financial performance and in
balance mostly in 2011. In total, approximately 75% of these costs
making projections of future financial performance, as results that
are expected to be cash expenditures and 25% are expected to be
include such costs, by virtue of their size and nature, have limited
accounting write-downs.
comparative value. This presentation is also consistent with the way
Uncertainties exist over the exact amount and timing of cash management assesses the Group’s financial performance.
outflows, as a result of potential future exchange rate
Only the restructuring costs incurred solely as a direct result of
fluctuations and as many elements of the restructuring
the Operational Excellence programme and the restructuring
programme are subject to employee consultation procedures,
programmes following the Reliant and Stiefel acquisitions have
making it difficult to predict with precision when these procedures
been reported in the major restructuring column in the income
will be completed. However, the majority of the remaining cash
statement. These restructuring costs principally have arisen from
payments are expected to be made in 2010 and 2011. Given
impairments to property, plant and equipment and the termination
the extent and cost of the Operational Excellence restructuring
of the employment contracts of staff made redundant as part of
programme, management believes it has a material impact
the restructuring activities. As set out in Note 7 to the financial
on GSK’s operating results and on the manner in which GSK’s
statements, ‘Major restructuring programme’, asset impairments
business is conducted. GSK presents the restructuring costs
and staff redundancies together accounted for £574 million of the
incurred solely as a direct result of the Operational Excellence
£835 million restructuring costs incurred in 2009 and reported in
restructuring programme, which in 2009 amounted to
the major restructuring column.
£764 million before tax (2008 – £1,089 million), in a separate
column in the income statement titled ‘Major restructuring’. The remaining costs of £261 million in 2009 arose from
miscellaneous expenditures incurred solely as a direct result
In addition to the restructuring costs of the Operational Excellence
of the restructuring programmes, including the termination of
programme, the major restructuring column in the income
leases, accelerated depreciation, site closure costs and consultancy
statement includes restructuring costs incurred solely as a direct
and project management fees. No costs arising from GSK’s
result of any restructuring programmes that follow, and relate to,
ongoing operating activities have been reported in the major
material acquisitions where the operations of the acquired business
restructuring column. overlap extensively with GSK’s existing operations.
GSK Annual Report 200935P–60P
weiver
ssenisuB
32
Financial review 2009
Any restructuring costs that do not arise solely as a direct result Selling, general and administration
of the Operational Excellence programme and restructuring SG&A costs as a percentage of turnover increased by 2.4
programmes following, and relating to, acquisitions meeting the percentage points to 33.8%. This included full year legal charges
criteria described above continue to be reported in operating of £591 million (2008 – £611 million) and charges related
expenses within results before major restructuring. These costs to the major restructuring programme of £392 million
included restructuring costs related to minor acquisitions and (2008 – £304 million). Excluding legal and restructuring
£4 million of costs in 2009 (2008 – £20 million) that related to costs, SG&A costs were 30.3% of turnover (2008 – 27.7%).
restructuring activity initiated before the commencement of the This reflected investment in growth markets, the acquisition of
Operational Excellence programme. None of this restructuring Stiefel, increased pension costs, the donation of H1N1 product
activity had a material impact on GSK’s operating results or on to WHO and exchange losses on inter-company transactions
the manner in which its business is conducted. (compared with exchange gains last year), partially offset by
the benefits of the current restructuring programme.
During the anticipated duration of the Operational Excellence
programme, GSK does not currently expect to incur any material Research and development
restructuring costs except those related to that programme and
R&D expenditure was 14.4% (2008 – 15.2%) of total turnover,
acquisitions meeting the criteria described above. If any further,
which included £167 million of intangible asset write-offs
unanticipated material restructuring costs were to arise during
(2008 – £85 million) partially offset by lower charges relating
this period, GSK would expect to include them also in the major
to the major restructuring programme of £155 million
restructuring column.
(2008 – £175 million) and a provision release due to reassessment
GSK’s operating profit, profit before taxation, taxation and of a receivable balance. Increased investment in vaccines R&D and
profit for the year are discussed below in terms of both total late stage pharmaceutical R&D were broadly offset by savings from
results, which include major restructuring costs, and results the restructuring programme.
before major restructuring. Other operating income
Operating profit – total results Other operating income was £1,135 million including gains from
asset disposals of £579 million (2008 – £293 million) primarily
Total results include restructuring costs related to the Operational
reflecting the disposal of Wellbutrin XL and various assets to Aspen
Excellence programme and the acquisitions of Reliant and Stiefel.
Pharmacare, royalty income of £296 million (2008 – £307 million),
2009 2008 Growth a royalty dispute settlement gain of £78 million, and a one-time
£m % £m % CER% £% accounting gain of £296 million on the creation of ViiV Healthcare,
Turnover 28,368 100 24,352 100 3 16 partially offset by equity investment impairments of £135 million.
Cost of sales (7,380) (26.0) (6,415) (26.3) 6 15 Operating profit – total results
Selling, general Total operating profit for the year was £8,425 million, an increase
and administration (9,592) (33.8) (7,656) (31.4) 6 25 of 4% CER and 18% in Sterling terms, compared with 2008. The
Research and operating profit margin increased 0.4 percentage points reflecting
development (4,106) (14.4) (3,681) (15.2) 1 12 higher other operating income and broadly flat R&D expenditure,
Other operating partially offset by increases in cost of sales and SG&A.
income 1,135 3.9 541 2.2
Profit before taxation – total results
Operating profit 8,425 29.7 7,141 29.3 4 18
Net finance costs
Cost of sales 2009 2008
Finance income £m £m
Cost of sales as a percentage of turnover reduced marginally to
26.0% of turnover (2008 – 26.3%), principally reflecting the impact Interest and other finance income 67 321
of generic competition to higher margin products in the USA and Unwinding of discounts on assets 2 1
changes to the product mix, offset by benefits from the restructuring Fair value adjustments and hedges 1 (9)
programme and lower restructuring costs of £285 million 70 313
(2008 – £639 million).
Finance costs
Interest costs (770) (829)
Unwinding of discounts on liabilities (11) (16)
Fair value adjustments and hedges (2) 2
(783) (843)
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
33
Financial review 2009
Profit on disposal of interest in associate Other operating income
Profit on disposal of interest in associate was £115 million as Other operating income was £1,135 million including gains
5.7 million shares from the Group’s holding in Quest Diagnostics from asset disposals of £579 million (2008 – £293 million)
Inc. were sold in the first quarter of 2009. primarily reflecting the disposal of Wellbutrin XL and various
assets to Aspen Pharmacare, royalty income of £296 million
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures
(2008 – £307 million), a royalty dispute settlement gain of
The share of after tax profits of associates of £64 million
£78 million, and a one-time accounting gain of £296 million
(2008 – £48 million) arises principally from the Group’s holding
on the creation of ViiV Healthcare, partially offset by equity
in Quest.
investment impairments of £135 million.
Profit before taxation – total results
In 2009 other operating income and profit on disposal of
Taking account of net finance costs, the profit on disposal of associates amounted to £1,250 million. An equivalent overall
interest in associates and the share of profits of associates, income of around £800-900 million is expected for 2010.
total profit before taxation was £7,891 million compared
Operating profit – results before major restructuring
with £6,659 million in 2008, a 4% CER increase and a 19%
sterling increase. Operating profit before major restructuring for the year was
£9,257 million, a 1% CER decline, but up 12% in Sterling terms,
Operating profit – results before major
compared with 2008. The operating profit margin was 32.6%
restructuring compared with a 2008 margin of 33.9%. The decline in margin
The results before major restructuring are set out below: was primarily due to generic competition in the USA which
impacted cost of goods and increased investment to support the
2009 2008 Growth Group’s diversification strategy which impacted SG&A, partly offset
£m % £m % CER% £% by a higher level of other operating income.
Turnover 28,368 100 24,352 100 3 16
As the impact of generic competition reduces and SG&A
Cost of sales (7,095) (25.0) (5,776) (23.7) 13 23 investment levels stabilise, GSK’s operating profit margin in 2010
Selling, general is currently expected to be broadly similar to 2009 (excluding legal
and administration (9,200) (32.4) (7,352) (30.2) 6 25 costs and the ViiV Healthcare accounting gain).
Research and
Further information on operating profit before major restructuring
development (3,951) (13.9) (3,506) (14.4) 2 13
is provided in Note 6, ‘Segment information’.
Other operating
income 1,135 3.9 541 2.2 Profit before taxation – results before major
restructuring
Operating profit 9,257 32.6 8,259 33.9 (1) 12
Net finance costs
Cost of sales
Cost of sales increased to 25.0% of turnover (2008 – 23.7%), Finance income 20 £0 m9 20 £0 m8
principally reflecting the impact of generic competition to higher
Interest and other income 67 321
margin products in the USA and changes to the product mix, partly
Unwinding of discounts on assets 2 1
offset by benefits from the restructuring programme. In 2010 cost
Fair value adjustments and hedges 1 (9)
of sales as a percentage of turnover is expected to be around 26%.
70 313
Selling, general and administration
SG&A costs as a percentage of turnover increased by 2.2 Finance costs
percentage points to 32.4%, including full year legal charges of
Interest costs (770) (829)
£591 million. The increase reflected investment in growth markets,
Unwinding of discounts on liabilities (8) (11)
the acquisition of Stiefel, increased pension costs, the donation
Fair value adjustments and hedges (2) 2
of H1N1 product to WHO and exchange losses on inter-company
transactions (compared with exchange gains last year), partially (780) (838)
offset by the benefits of the current restructuring programme.
In 2010 SG&A costs excluding legal charges are expected to be Profit on disposal of interest in associate
around 29% of turnover. Profit on disposal of interests in associates was £115 million as
Research and development 5.7 million Quest shares were sold in the first quarter of 2009.
R&D expenditure was 13.9% (2008 – 14.4%) of total turnover,
which included £167 million of intangible asset write-offs
(2008 – £85 million) partially offset by a provision release due
to reassessment of a receivable balance. Increased investment in
vaccines R&D and late-stage pharmaceutical R&D were broadly
offset by savings from the restructuring programme. In 2010
R&D costs as a percentage of turnover are expected to remain
at around 14%.
GSK Annual Report 200935P–60P
weiver
ssenisuB
34
Financial review 2009
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures Profit for the year
The share of after tax profits of associates of £64 million
(2008 – £48 million) arises principally from the Group’s holding 2009 2008 Growth
£m £m CER% £%
in Quest Diagnostics Inc.
Total profit after taxation
Profit before taxation – results before major restructuring for the year 5,669 4,712 6 20
Taking account of net finance costs, the profit on disposal of Total profit attributable to
interests in associates and the share of profits of associates, profit shareholders 5,531 4,602 6 20
before tax before major restructuring was £8,726 million compared Basic earnings per share (pence) 109.1p 88.6p
with £7,782 million in 2008, a 1% CER decline but 12% increase Basic earnings per ADS (US$) $3.40 $3.28
in sterling terms.
Results before major restructuring
Taxation profit after taxation for the year 6,283 5,551 – 13
Results before major restructuring
2009 2008
£m £m profit attributable to shareholders 6,145 5,441 – 13
UK corporation tax 456 289 Adjusted earnings per share (pence) 121.2p 104.7p 2 16
Overseas taxation 1,958 1,589 Adjusted earnings per ADS (US$) $3.78 $3.87
Weighted average number
Current taxation 2,414 1,878
of shares (millions) 5,069 5,195
Deferred taxation (192) 69
Diluted total earnings per share (pence) 108.2p 88.1p
Taxation on total profits 2,222 1,947
Diluted total earnings per ADS (US$) $3.38 $3.26
The charge for taxation on total profits amounted to £2,222 million Diluted weighted average number
and represented an effective tax rate of 28.2% (2008 – 29.2%). of shares (millions) 5,108 5,226
The charge for taxation on profit before major restructuring charges
Total results including restructuring costs produced a basic EPS of
amounting to £2,443 million represents an effective tax rate of
109.1p compared with 88.6p in 2008. This was an 8% growth In
28.0% (2008 – 28.7%). GSK currently expects a similar effective
CER terms and a 23% growth in sterling terms. Excluding major
tax rate in 2010. The Group’s balance sheet at 31st December
restructuring costs, EPS was 121.2p compared with 104.7p.
2009 included a tax payable liability of £1,451 million and a tax
This was a 2% growth at CER and a 16% increase in sterling
recoverable asset of £58 million.
terms. The 14 percentage point currency benefit arose from the
On 19th November 2009 the IRS conceded all asserted tax weakness of Sterling against most major currencies during the year.
deficiencies and penalties arising from its reclassification of an
Dividend
intercompany financing arrangement from debt to equity resulting
in no additional tax cost to GSK. The IRS claim had previously been The Board has declared a fourth interim dividend of 18 pence per
estimated at $864 million for 2001-2003. GSK and the IRS are now share resulting in a dividend for the year of 61 pence; a four pence
in the process of finalising the tax computations for the 2001-2003 increase over the 57 pence per share for 2008. The equivalent
tax years. It is anticipated that resolution of the issue in the years interim dividend receivable by ADR holders is 57.3696 cents per
2004 to 2008 will be reflected in a closing agreement. Resolution ADS based on an exchange rate of £1/$1.5936. The ex-dividend
of the issue had no impact on the Group’s results. date was 10th February 2010, with a record date of 12th February
2010 and a payment date of 8th April 2010.
GSK continues to believe that it has made adequate provision for
the liabilities likely to arise from open assessments. The ultimate Critical accounting policies
liability for such matters may vary from the amounts provided and The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance
is dependent upon the outcome of litigation proceedings and with IFRS, as adopted for use in the European Union, and also with
negotiations with the relevant tax authorities. IFRS as issued by the IASB, following the accounting policies approved
by the Board and described in Note 2 to the financial statements,
‘Accounting principles and policies’. Management is required to
make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts of assets,
liabilities, revenue and expenses reported in the financial statements.
Actual amounts and results could differ from those estimates.
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
35
Financial review 2009
The critical accounting policies adopted relate to the following areas: A reconciliation of gross turnover to net turnover for the US
• Turnover pharmaceuticals business is as follows:
• Taxation
2009 2008 2007
• Legal and other disputes £m % £m % £m %
• Property, plant & equipment Gross turnover 12,504 100 11,602 100 11,826 100
• Goodwill Chargebacks (1,193) 10 (892) 8 (917) 8
• Other intangible assets Managed care, Medicare
Part D and GPO
• Pensions and other post-employment benefits.
rebates (917) 7 (764) 6 (727) 6
Information on the judgements and estimates made in these areas US government and
is given in Note 3 to the financial statements, ‘Key accounting
state programmes (663) 5 (554) 5 (481) 4
judgements and estimates’.
Cash discounts (219) 2 (207) 2 (208) 2
In respect of the Turnover accounting policy, the Group’s largest Customer returns (179) 1 (126) 1 (131) 1
business is US pharmaceuticals, and the US market has the most Prior year adjustments 30 – 38 – 73 –
complex arrangements for rebates, discounts and allowances. Other items (183) 2 (203) 1 (162) 1
The following briefly describes the nature of the arrangements in
Total deductions (3,324) 27 (2,708) 23 (2,553) 22
existence in the Group’s US pharmaceuticals business:
Net turnover 9,180 73 8,894 77 9,273 78
• G SK has arrangements with certain indirect customers whereby
the customer is able to buy products from wholesalers at Sterling values have increased by approximately 16% compared
reduced prices. A chargeback represents the difference with 2008 as a result of average exchange rate movements.
between the invoice price to the wholesaler and the indirect
Chargebacks have increased in 2009 as a result of higher direct
customer’s contractual discounted price. Accruals for estimating
chargebacks on Relenza sales. Managed care, Medicare Part D
chargebacks are calculated based on the terms of each
and GPO rebates increased slightly as a result of higher contracting
agreement, historical experience and product growth rates
discounts arising from competitive pressures in the market place.
• C ustomer rebates are offered to key managed care and
group purchasing organisations (GPO) and other direct and The total accruals for rebates, discounts, allowances and returns
indirect customers. These arrangements require the customer in the US pharmaceuticals business were as follows:
to achieve certain performance targets relating to value of
At 31st At 31st
product purchased, formulary status or pre-determined market
December December
shares relative to competitors. The accrual for customer rebates 2009 2008
is estimated based on the specific terms in each agreement, £m £m
historical experience and product growth rates Chargebacks 46 50
Managed care, Medicare Part D
• T he US Medicaid programme is a state-administered
and GPO rebates 429 474
programme providing assistance to certain poor and vulnerable
US government and state programmes 354 345
patients. In 1990, the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program was
Cash discounts 20 25
established to reduce state and federal expenditure on
Customer returns 205 259
prescription drugs. GSK participates by providing rebates to
states. Accruals for Medicaid rebates are calculated based Other 27 50
on the specific terms of individual state agreements using a Total 1,081 1,203
combination of historical experience, product and population
growth, anticipated price increases and the impact of Sterling values have decreased largely as a result of year-end
contracting strategies exchange rate movements; in dollar terms, the 2009 provision is
• Cash discounts are offered to customers to encourage prompt largely unchanged from 2008.
payment. These are accrued for at the time of invoicing and
A monthly process is operated to monitor inventory levels at
adjusted subsequently to reflect actual experience
wholesalers for any abnormal movements. This process uses gross
• Where there is historical experience of customer returns, sales volumes, prescription volumes based on third party data
GSK records an accrual for estimated sales returns by applying sources and information received from key wholesalers. The aim of
historical experience of customer returns to the amounts this is to maintain inventories at a consistent level from year to year
invoiced, together with market related information such as based on the pattern of consumption.
stock levels at wholesalers, anticipated price increases and
On this basis, US pharmaceutical inventory levels at wholesalers
competitor activity.
and in other distribution channels at 31st December 2009 were
estimated to amount to approximately one month of turnover.
This calculation uses third party information, the accuracy of which
cannot be totally verified, but is believed to be sufficiently reliable
for this purpose.
GSK Annual Report 200935P–60P
weiver
ssenisuB
36
Financial position and resources
Financial position Property, plant and equipment
GSK’s business is science-based, technology-intensive and highly
2009 2008
£m £m regulated by governmental authorities. The Group allocates
Assets significant financial resources to the renewal and maintenance of its
Non-current assets property, plant and equipment to minimise risks of interruption of
Property, plant and equipment 9,374 9,678 production and to achieve compliance with regulatory standards.
Goodwill 3,361 2,101 A number of its processes use chemicals and hazardous materials.
Other intangible assets 8,183 5,869 The total cost of the Group’s property, plant and equipment at
Investments in associates and joint ventures 895 552 31st December 2009 was £18,757 million, with a net book value
Other investments 454 478 of £9,374 million. Of this, land and buildings represented
Deferred tax assets 2,374 2,760 £3,762 million, plant and equipment £3,433 million and assets
Derivative financial instruments 68 107 in construction £2,179 million. In 2009, GSK invested
Other non-current assets 583 579 £1,423 million in new and renewal property, plant and equipment.
This is mainly related to a large number of projects for the renewal,
Total non-current assets 25,292 22,124
improvement and expansion of facilities at various worldwide sites.
Current assets
Property is mainly held freehold. New investment is financed from
Inventories 4,064 4,056 Group liquid resources. At 31st December 2009, GSK had capital
Current tax recoverable 58 76 contractual commitments for future expenditure of £416 million
Trade and other receivables 6,492 6,265 and operating lease commitments of £337 million. GSK believes
Derivative financial instruments 129 856 that its facilities are adequate for its current needs.
Liquid investments 268 391
The Group observes stringent procedures and uses specialist
Cash and cash equivalents 6,545 5,623
skills to manage environmental risks from these activities.
Assets held for sale 14 2
Environmental issues, sometimes dating from operations now
Total current assets 17,570 17,269 modified or discontinued, are reported under ‘Responsibility
Total assets 42,862 39,393 and the environment’ (page 24) and in Note 44 to the financial
statements, ‘Legal proceedings’.
Liabilities
Goodwill
Current liabilities
Short-term borrowings (1,471) (956) Goodwill has increased during the year from £2,101 million at
Trade and other payables (6,772) (6,075) 31st December 2008 to £3,361 million. The increase primarily
reflects the goodwill arising on the acquisition of Stiefel
Derivative financial instruments (168) (752)
Laboratories, Inc. of £885 million, the Pfizer HIV business of
Current tax payable (1,451) (780)
£255 million and certain businesses from UCB S.A. of £87 million.
Short-term provisions (2,256) (1,454)
Other intangible assets
Total current liabilities (12,118) (10,017)
Other intangible assets include the cost of intangibles acquired from
Non-current liabilities
third parties and computer software. The net book value of other
Long-term borrowings (14,786) (15,231)
intangible assets as at 31st December 2009 was £8,183 million
Deferred tax liabilities (645) (714)
(2008 – £5,869 million). The increase in 2009 reflects additions
Pensions and other post-employment benefits (2,981) (3,039)
of £3,167 million partly offset by currency movements and the
Other provisions (985) (1,645)
amortisation and impairment of existing intangibles. The largest element
Derivative financial instruments – (2)
of the additions is £1,513 million relating to the acquisition of Stiefel
Other non-current liabilities (605) (427) Laboratories, Inc. reflecting the brands acquired together with the
Total non-current liabilities (20,002) (21,058) Stiefel trade name. In addition, £595 million relates to the fair value of
the Pfizer HIV intellectual property acquired following the creation of
Total liabilities (32,120) (31,075)
the ViiV Healthcare business during the year and a further £445 million
Net assets 10,742 8,318
arises from the acquisition of certain businesses from UCB S.A.
Equity
Share capital 1,416 1,415
Share premium account 1,368 1,326
Retained earnings 6,321 4,622
Other reserves 900 568
Shareholders’ equity 10,005 7,931
Minority interests 737 387
Total equity 10,742 8,318
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
37
Financial position and resources
Investments Provisions
GSK held investments, including associates and joint ventures, The Group carried deferred tax provisions and other short-term and
with a carrying value at 31st December 2009 of £1,349 million non-current provisions of £3,886 million at 31st December 2009
(2008 – £1,030 million). The market value at 31st December 2009 (2008 – £3,813 million) in respect of estimated future liabilities, of
was £2,225 million (2008 – £1,883 million). The largest of these which £2,020 million related to legal and other disputes. Provision
investments are in two associates: Quest Diagnostics Inc., which has been made for legal and other disputes, indemnified disposal
had a book value at 31st December 2009 of £410 million liabilities and the costs of restructuring programmes to the extent
(2008 – £463 million) and Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Limited, that at the balance sheet date an actual or constructive obligation
acquired this year, which had a book value at 31st December existed and could be reasonably estimated.
2009 of £372 million. The investments include equity stakes in
Pensions and other post-employment benefits
companies where the Group has research collaborations, which
The Group accounts for pension and other post-employment
provide access to biotechnology developments of potential interest
arrangements in accordance with IAS 19. The deficits, net of
and interests in companies that arise from business divestments.
surpluses before allowing for deferred taxation were £1,745 million
Derivative financial instruments: assets (2008 – £1,697 million) on pension arrangements and
GSK had both non-current and current derivative financial £1,213 million (2008 – £1,303 million) on unfunded post-
instruments held at fair value of £197 million (2008 – £963 million). employment liabilities. The pension liabilities increased following a
The decrease primarily reflects lower currency volatility in Euro, weakening of long term interest rates, including a reduction in the
US dollar and Yen market rates. rate used to discount UK pension liabilities from 6.20% to 5.70%
and an increase in the estimated long term inflation rate in the
Inventories
UK, partly offset by a positive impact of exchange movements and
Inventory of £4,064 million has increased by £8 million during
higher asset values.
the year. The increase arises from H1N1 vaccine and Synflorix stock-
builds following regulatory approval in key markets; the acquisition Net debt
of Stiefel Laboratories, Inc.; strategic stock building to support 2009 2008
growth in Emerging Markets and Japan, offset by a weakening of £m £m
overseas currencies and improvements following implementation Cash, cash equivalents and
of the working capital reduction programme. liquid investments 6,813 6,014
Borrowings – repayable within one year (1,471) (956)
Trade and other receivables
Borrowings – repayable after one year (14,786) (15,231)
Trade and other receivables of £6,492 million have increased from
2008 reflecting the relatively high vaccine sales of H1N1 in the last Net debt (9,444) (10,173)
quarter together with the Stiefel acquisition, partly offset by the
impact of a weakening of overseas currencies on the translation of Net debt decreased by £729 million primarily from a weakening of
foreign currency receivables, the sale of long outstanding debt in the foreign currencies in which Group debt is denominated.
certain European markets and Taiwan and reductions in overdue Total equity
receivables in certain European and Asian markets.
A summary of the movements in equity is set out below.
Derivative financial instruments: liabilities
2009 2008
GSK held current derivative financial instruments held at fair
£m £m
value of £168 million (2008 – £752 million current and £2 million
Total equity at beginning of year 8,318 9,910
non-current) relating primarily to hedging exchange on translation
Total comprehensive income for the year 4,996 4,829
of currency assets on consolidation. The decrease again reflects
Dividends to shareholders (3,003) (2,929)
lower currency volatility on the Euro, US dollar and Yen.
Ordinary Shares issued 43 62
Trade and other payables Ordinary Shares purchased and cancelled – (3,706)
Trade and other payables amounting to £6,772 million have Changes in minority shareholdings 338 –
increased from 2008 primarily reflecting working capital Put option over minority interest (2) –
improvement initiatives to extend supplier terms towards the Consideration received for shares transferred
Group’s 60 day term objective and the acquisition of Stiefel by ESOP Trusts 13 10
Laboratories Inc., partly offset by a weakening of year-end Ordinary Shares acquired by ESOP Trusts (57) (19)
foreign exchange rates. Share-based incentive plans 171 241
Tax on share-based incentive plans 14 (1)
Distributions to minority interests (89) (79)
Total equity at end of year 10,742 8,318
At 31st December 2009, total equity had increased from £8,318
million at 31st December 2008 to £10,742 million. The increase
arises principally from retained profit for the year partly offset by
actuarial losses on defined benefit pension plans.
GSK Annual Report 200935P–60P
weiver
ssenisuB
38
Financial position and resources
Share purchases Contractual obligations and commitments
In 2009, the Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) Trusts The following table sets out the Group’s contractual obligations and
acquired £57 million of shares in GSK plc (2008 – £19 million). commitments at 31st December 2009 as they fall due for payment.
Shares are held by the Trusts to satisfy future exercises of options
and awards under the Group share option and award schemes. Total Under 1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs+
£m £m £m £m £m
A proportion of the shares held by the Trusts are in respect of
Loans 16,127 1,431 2,647 2,538 9,511
awards where the rules of the scheme require GSK to satisfy
Interest on loans 10,733 757 1,507 1,130 7,339
exercises through market purchases rather than the issue of new
Finance lease obligations 130 40 56 19 15
shares. The shares held by the Trusts are matched to options and
Finance lease charges 16 4 8 3 1
awards granted.
Operating lease
At 31st December 2009, the ESOP Trusts held 118 million
commitments 337 111 122 35 69
(2008 – 129 million) GSK shares against the future exercise
Intangible assets 12,280 694 1,189 2,022 8,375
of share options and share awards. The carrying value of
Property, plant & equipment 416 300 74 42 –
£1,138 million (2008 – £1,445 million) has been deducted from
Investments 86 37 12 37 –
other reserves. The market value of these shares was
Purchase commitments 82 60 21 1 –
£1,554 million (2008 – £1,657 million).
Pensions 1,460 365 730 365 –
GSK did not repurchase any shares for cancellation in 2009 Other commitments 52 8 17 22 5
(2008 – £3,706 million) or any shares to be held as Treasury shares
Total 41,719 3,807 6,383 6,214 25,315
(2008 – £nil). In order to ensure that GSK has sufficient flexibility
to deliver its strategic priorities the company does not expect to
Commitments in respect of loans and future interest payable
make any significant repurchases under the existing share buy-back
on loans are disclosed before taking into account the effect
programme during 2010. The exact amount and timing of future
of derivatives. The Group has entered into a number of
purchases, and the extent to which repurchased shares will be held
research collaborations to develop new compounds with other
as Treasury shares rather than being cancelled, will be determined
pharmaceutical companies. The terms of these arrangements can
by the company and is dependent on market conditions and other
include upfront fees, equity investments, loans and commitments
factors. At 31st December 2009, GSK held 474.2 million shares as
to fund specified levels of research. In addition, the Group will
Treasury shares (2008 – 474.2 million shares), at a cost of
often agree to make further payments if future ‘milestones’ are
£6,286 million (2008 – £6,286 million), which has been deducted
achieved. As some of these agreements relate to compounds in the
from retained earnings.
early stages of development, milestone payments will continue for
There have been no purchases since 31st December 2009 under a number of years if the compounds move successfully through the
the existing programme. development process. Generally the closer the product is
to marketing approval the greater the possibility of success.
Commitments and contingent liabilities
The payments shown above within intangible assets represent
Financial commitments are summarised in Note 39 to the financial the maximum that would be paid if all milestones are achieved.
statements, ‘Commitments’. Other contingent liabilities and
obligations in respect of short and long-term debt are set out in A number of new commitments were made in 2009 under
Note 31 to the financial statements, ‘Contingent liabilities’ and licensing and other agreements, including arrangements with
Note 32 to the financial statements, ‘Net debt’. Chroma Therapeutics Limited, Concert Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Idenix
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Prosensa B.V. and Seattle Genetics, Inc.
Amounts provided for pensions and post-retirement benefits are
set out in Note 28 to the financial statements, ‘Pensions and other In 2009, GSK reached an agreement with the trustees of the UK
post-employment benefits’. Amounts provided for restructuring pension schemes to make additional contributions over a five year
programmes and legal, environmental and other disputes are set period, to eliminate the pension deficit identified at the
out in Note 29 to the financial statements, ‘Other provisions’. 31st December 2008 actuarial funding valuation. The table above
shows this commitment but excludes the normal ongoing annual
funding requirement of approximately £150 million. For further
information on pension obligations, see Note 28 to the financial
statements, ‘Pensions and other post-employment benefits’.
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
39
Financial position and resources
Contingent liabilities The net cash outflow from investing activities was £4,013 million,
an increase of £2,864 million which primarily reflected a significant
The following table sets out contingent liabilities, comprising
increase in the cost of business purchases during 2009, including
discounted bills, performance guarantees, letters of credit and other
Stiefel Laboratories, Inc. for £1,993 million net of cash acquired of
items arising in the normal course of business, and when they are
£74 million, certain businesses from UCB S.A. for £472 million net
expected to expire.
of cash acquired of £5 million, and AZ Tika for £146 million. In 2008,
Total Under 1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs+ the comparable acquisitions comprised Sirtris Pharmaceuticals for
£m £m £m £m £m £324 million net of cash acquired of £52 million, and the Egyptian
Guarantees 110 72 28 – 10 business of BMS for £130 million net of deferred consideration of
Other contingent liabilities 40 5 12 2 21 £10 million. In addition sales of liquid investments realised cash of
£905 million in 2008.
Total 150 77 40 2 31
Free cash flow
In the normal course of business, GSK has provided various
£m
indemnification guarantees in respect of business disposals
in which legal and other disputes have subsequently arisen. 6,000
A provision is made where an outflow of resources is considered
5,000
probable and a reasonable estimate can be made of the likely 5,254
outcome of the dispute and this is included in Note 29 to the 4,679
4,000
financial statements, ‘Other provisions’.
3,000
It is the Group’s policy to provide for the settlement costs of
asserted claims and environmental disputes when an outflow of 2,000
resources is considered probable and a reasonable estimate may
1,000
be made. Prior to this point no liability is recorded. Legal and
environmental costs are discussed in ‘Risk factors’ on pages 43 0
to 47 and Note 44 to the financial statements, ‘Legal 2009 2008
proceedings’. GSK continues to believe that it has made adequate
provision for the liabilities likely to arise from open taxation Free cash flow is the amount of cash generated by the business
assessments. The ultimate liability for such matters may vary after meeting its obligations for interest, tax and dividends paid
significantly from amounts provided and is dependent upon the to minority interests, and after capital expenditure on non-current
outcome of litigation proceedings and negotiations with the tangible and intangible assets. For 2009 free cash flow was
relevant tax authorities. This is discussed further in Note 14 to £5,254 million, an increase of 12% over 2008. This principally
the financial statements, ‘Taxation’. reflected the higher operating profit before non-cash charges
(primarily from the major restructuring programmes) and lower
Cash flow
expenditure on intangible assets. This was partly offset by higher
A summary of the consolidated cash flow is set out below.
levels of net interest paid as a result of the debt issuance during
the year of €1.6 billion under the EMTN programme and reduced
2009 2008
£m £m interest income on deposits.
Net cash inflow from operating activities 7,841 7,205 Free cash flow is used by GSK’s management for planning and
Net cash outflow from investing activities (4,013) (1,149) reporting purposes and in discussions with and presentations to
Net cash outflow from financing activities (2,774) (4,908) investment analysts and rating agencies. GSK’s free cash flow
measure is not defined in IFRS. This measure may not be directly
Increase in cash and bank overdrafts 1,054 1,148
comparable with similarly described measures used by other
Exchange adjustments (158) 1,103
companies. A reconciliation of net cash inflow from operating
Cash and bank overdrafts at beginning of year 5,472 3,221
activities, which is the closest equivalent IFRS measure, to free
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year 6,368 5,472 cash flow is shown below.
Reconciliation of free cash flow
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year
comprise: 2009 2008
£m £m
Cash and cash equivalents 6,545 5,623
Overdrafts (177) (151) Net cash inflow from operating activities 7,841 7,205
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (1,418) (1,437)
6,368 5,472
Purchase of non-current intangible assets (455) (632)
Disposal of property, plant and equipment 48 20
The net cash inflow from operating activities after taxation paid was
Interest paid (780) (730)
£7,841 million, an increase of £636 million over 2008 reflecting higher
Interest received 90 320
profit before tax, excluding the impact of the significant increase in
Dividends received from joint ventures and
non-cash charges made in the year, primarily from the major
restructuring programmes. associated undertaking 17 12
Dividends paid to minority interests (89) (79)
Free cash flow 5,254 4,679
GSK Annual Report 200935P–60P
weiver
ssenisuB
40
Financial position and resources
Movements in net debt Payment policies
Group companies are responsible for monitoring and managing
2009 2008 their working capital. The terms of sales collections and supplier
£m £m
payments reflect local commercial practice.
Net debt at beginning of year (10,173) (6,039)
Increase in cash and bank overdrafts 1,054 1,148 In the UK, the company and each of its UK subsidiaries have
Cash inflow from liquid investments (87) (905) policies to ensure that suppliers are paid on time. In particular,
Net increase in long-term loans (1,358) (5,523) the UK companies seek:
Net repayment of short-term loans 102 3,059 • to settle terms of payment with suppliers when agreeing the
Debt of subsidiary undertakings acquired (9) – terms of the transaction
Exchange movements 1,041 (1,918)
• to ensure that suppliers are made aware of the agreed terms
Other movements (14) 5
of payment
Net debt at end of year (9,444) (10,173) • to abide by the terms of payment.
Investment appraisal The policy permits arrangements for accelerated payment to
small suppliers.
GSK has a formal process for assessing potential investment
proposals in order to ensure decisions are aligned with the Payment performance
Group’s overall strategy. This process includes an analysis of At 31st December 2009, the average number of days’ payable
the impact of the project on earnings, its return on invested outstanding represented by trade payables of the parent company
capital and an assessment of the return based on discounted was nil (2008 – nil) and in respect of the company and its UK
cash flows. The discount rate used to perform financial analysis subsidiaries in aggregate was 44 days (2008 – 20 days).
is decided internally, to allow determination of the extent to
which investments cover the Group’s cost of capital. For specific Treasury policies
investments the discount rate may be adjusted to take into GSK reports in Sterling and pays dividends out of Sterling profits.
account country or other risk weightings. The role of Corporate Treasury is to manage and monitor our
external and internal funding requirements and financial risks in
Capital expenditure and financial investment
support of our strategic objectives. Treasury activities are governed
Cash payments for tangible and intangible fixed assets amounted
by policies and procedures approved by the Board of Directors,
to £1,873 million (2008 – £2,069 million; 2007 – £2,143 million).
most recently on 1st October 2009.
Disposals realised £404 million (2008 – £191 million;
2007 – £44 million). Cash payments to acquire equity investments A Treasury Management Group (TMG) chaired by our Chief
of £154 million (2008 – £87 million; 2007 – £186 million) were Financial Officer, meets on a monthly basis to review treasury
made in the year and sales of equity investments realised activities. Its members receive management information relating
£59 million (2008 – £42 million; 2007 – £45 million). to treasury activities.
Future cash flow Capital management
The Group expects that future operating cash flow will be GSK operates on a global basis, primarily through subsidiary
sufficient to fund its operating and debt service costs, to satisfy companies established in the markets in which we trade. With
normal levels of capital expenditure, to meet obligations under significant levels of patent or trademark protection, our products
existing licensing agreements, to meet the expenditure arising from compete largely on product efficacy or differentiation rather than
the major restructuring programmes (the precise timing of which on price. Selling margins are sufficient to cover normal operating
is uncertain) outlined in Note 7 to the financial statements, ‘Major costs and our operating subsidiaries are generally cash generative.
restructuring programmes’ and to meet other routine outflows
Operating cash flow is used to fund investment in research and
including tax and dividends, subject to the ‘Risk factors’ discussed
development of new products. It is also used to make the routine
on pages 43 to 47. GSK may from time to time have additional
outflows of capital expenditure, tax, dividends, repayment of
demands for finance, such as for acquisitions. It has access to other
maturing debt and, to the extent determined by the Board,
sources of liquidity from short and long-term capital markets and
share repurchases.
banks and other financial institutions, in addition to the cash flow
from operations, for such needs. Our policy is to borrow centrally using a variety of capital
market issues and borrowing facilities to meet anticipated
funding requirements.
These borrowings, together with cash generated from operations,
are on-lent, contributed as equity to certain subsidiaries or used to
pay dividends and make acquisitions. GSK did not make any share
repurchases in 2009.
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
41
Financial position and resources
Liquidity At 31st December 2009, we had centrally available cash reserves of
As at 31st December 2009, our cash and liquid investments were £4.9 billion and committed undrawn bank facilities of $3.9 billion.
held as follows: As at that date we had short-term debt and bank overdrafts and
loans repayable within one year of £1.5 billion.
2009 2008
£m £m We manage our net borrowing requirements through a portfolio
of long-term borrowings, including bonds, together with short-
Bank balances and deposits 5,206 3,778
term finance under a $10 billion commercial paper programme.
US Treasury and Treasury repo
The commercial paper programme is backed by $3.9 billion of
only money market funds 1,305 1,852
committed facilities. The facilities were last renewed in October
Corporate debt instruments 10 75
2009. We consider this level of committed facilities to be adequate
Government securities 292 309
given our current cash holdings. For further information on these
6,813 6,014 facilities, see Note 32 to the financial statements, ‘Net debt’. We
also benefit from strong positive cash flow from operating units.
£4.9 billion of this amount is managed centrally and available
We have a European Medium Term Note programme of
within three months. We had net debt at 31st December 2009 of
£15 billion. At 31st December 2009, we had £8.5 billion of
£9.4 billion. The table below summarises cash and gross debt after
notes in issue under this programme. We also have a US shelf
the effects of hedging.
registration statement. At 31st December 2009, we had
2009 2008 $11 billion (£6.9 billion) of notes in issue under this programme.
£m £m The TMG monitors the cash flow forecast on a monthly basis.
Cash and liquid investments 6,813 6,014
The long-term borrowings mature at dates between 2012 and
Gross debt – fixed (13,706) (13,814)
2042. Our long-term debt ratings have remained stable since
– floating (2,550) (2,373) February 2008. Currently we are rated A+ stable outlook by
– non-interest bearing (1) –
Standard and Poor’s and A1 stable outlook by Moody’s.
Net debt (9,444) (10,173) Our short-term debt ratings are A-1 and P-1 with Standard and
Poor’s and Moody’s respectively.
The maturity profile of gross debt is shown in the table below:
Maturity profile of gross debt
£m equivalent
3,000
2,500
2,000
1,500
1,000
500
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2025 2033 2034 2038 2039 2042
• GBP bonds • EUR bonds • USD bonds • Commercial paper • Other borrowings • Leases
GSK Annual Report 200935P–60P
weiver
ssenisuB
42
Financial position and resources
Treasury operations We use an interest rate swap to re-denominate one of our external
The objective of treasury activity is to manage the post-tax net borrowings into the interest rate coupon required by GSK.
cost or income of financial operations to the benefit of earnings. The duration of this swap matches the duration of the principal
Corporate Treasury does not operate as a profit centre. We use instrument. Interest rate derivative instruments are accounted for
a variety of financial instruments to finance our operations and as fair value or cash flow hedges of the relevant assets or liabilities.
derivative financial instruments to manage market risks from Counterparty risk management
these operations. These derivatives, principally comprising forward Our policy on counterparty risk management is to work with
foreign currency contracts, interest rate and currency swaps,
a select group of relationship banks. Global counterparty
are used to swap borrowings and liquid assets into our required
limits are assigned to each of GSK’s banking and investment
currencies and to manage exposure to funding risks from changes
counterparties based on long-term credit ratings from Moody’s
in foreign exchange and interest rates.
and Standard and Poor’s. Corporate Treasury’s usage of these
We do not hold or issue derivatives for speculative purposes. Our limits is monitored daily by a Corporate Compliance Officer (CCO)
treasury policies specifically prohibit such activity. All transactions who operates independently of Corporate Treasury. Any breach
in financial instruments are undertaken to manage the risks arising of these limits is reported to the CFO immediately. The CCO also
from underlying business activities, not for speculation. monitors the credit rating of these counterparties and, when
changes in ratings occur, notifies Corporate Treasury so that
Foreign exchange management
changes can be made to investment levels or authority limits as
Foreign currency transaction exposures arising on internal and appropriate. A full counterparty analysis is presented to the TMG
external trade flows are not hedged. The exposure of overseas annually for approval.
operating subsidiaries to transaction risk is minimised by matching
local currency income with local currency costs. Financial assets and liabilities
An analysis of net debt is given in Note 32 to the financial
For this purpose, our internal trading transactions are matched
statements, ‘Net debt’. An analysis of financial assets and liabilities
centrally and we manage intercompany payment terms to reduce
at carrying value and fair value is given in Note 41 to the financial
foreign currency risk. Exceptional foreign currency cash flows are
statements, ‘Financial instruments and related disclosures’.
hedged selectively under the management of Corporate Treasury.
We continue to benefit from strong positive cash flow from
We manage the short-term cash surpluses or borrowing
operating activities. Our net debt has decreased in the year to
requirements of subsidiary companies centrally using forward
31st December 2009, despite GSK’s acquisition activities in the
contracts to hedge future repayments back into the
period which totalled approximately £2.8 billion. For further
originating currency.
information on these activities, see Note 38 to the financial
We seek to denominate borrowings in the currencies of our statements, ‘Acquisitions and Disposals’.
principal assets and cash flows. These are primarily denominated
The financial assets and liabilities at 31st December 2009 are
in US dollars, Euros and Sterling. Certain borrowings are swapped
representative of our treasury policies and strategies applied
into other currencies as required.
since July 2007. In 2009 GSK raised approximately £1.4 billion
Borrowings denominated in, or swapped into, foreign currencies (2008 – £6.3 billion) in the Capital Markets. We did not make
that match investments in our overseas assets may be treated as any share repurchases in 2009.
a hedge against the relevant assets. Forward contracts are also
used in major currencies to reduce our exposure to our investment
in overseas Group assets (see ‘Net Investment Hedges’ section
of Note 41 for further details). The TMG reviews the ratio of
borrowings to assets for major currencies.
Interest rate risk management
The policy on interest rate risk management limits the amount
of floating interest payments to a prescribed percentage of
trading profit.
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
43
Risk factors
There are risks and uncertainties relevant to the Group’s business, Patent infringement litigation
financial condition and results of operations that may affect the The Group’s patents, in common with all patents, can be challenged
Group’s performance and ability to achieve its objectives. at any time. Efforts by generic manufacturers may involve challenges
The factors below are among those that the Group thinks, based to the validity or enforceability of a patent or assertions that their
on the CET’s most recent annual workshop to identify the most generic product does not infringe the Group’s patents. If GSK is not
significant risks facing the Group, could cause its actual results successful in defending an attack on its patents and maintaining
to differ materially from expected and historical results. There are exclusive rights to market one or more of its major products,
other risks and uncertainties not currently known to the Group or particularly in the USA where the Group has its highest turnover
which are deemed immaterial. and margins, the Group’s financial results may be materially and
adversely affected. See Note 44 to the financial statements, ‘Legal
For each of the risks described below, the Group has implemented
proceedings’, for a discussion of patent-related proceedings in
a system of internal control that involves policies and procedures,
which the Group is involved and page 12 for a description of the
communication and training programmes, supervision and
resolutions of prior proceedings which affect the dates on which
monitoring and processes for escalating issues to the appropriate
generic versions of the Group’s products may be introduced.
level of senior management. Such a system helps facilitate the
Group’s ability to respond appropriately to risks and to achieve Generic drug manufacturers are seeking to market generic versions
Group objectives and helps ensure compliance with applicable of many of the Group’s most important products, prior to the
laws, regulations and internal policies. It is not possible, however, expiration of the Group’s patents, and have exhibited a readiness
for the Group to implement controls to respond to all the risks to do so for other products in the future. The US launch of generic
that it may face, and there can be no assurance that the steps the products competing with Lamictal, Imitrex, Paxil CR, Requip,
Group has taken to address certain risks will manage these risks Wellbutrin XL and Valtrex had a significant impact on the Group’s
effectively or at all. overall turnover and earnings for 2009.
The Group’s management of these risks is further discussed on Potential changes in intellectual property laws
pages 65 to 67 ‘Corporate Governance’. and regulations
The major risks that might affect GSK’s business are: Proposals to change existing patent and data exclusivity laws and
regulations in major markets in which the Group sells its products
Risk that R&D will not deliver commercially successful are a continuing feature of the political process in those countries.
new products These include proposals that could have the effect of making
Continued development of commercially viable new products as well prosecution of patents for new products more difficult and time-
as the development of additional uses for existing products is critical consuming or adversely affect the exclusivity period for the Group’s
to the Group’s ability to replace sales of older products that decline products, including biological products. Should such proposals
upon expiration of exclusive rights, and to increase overall sales. be enacted they may materially and adversely affect the Group’s
Developing new products is a costly, lengthy and uncertain process. financial results.
A new product candidate can fail at any stage of the process, and Weakness of intellectual property protection in
one or more late stage product candidates could fail to receive certain countries
regulatory approval. In some of the countries in which the Group operates, patent
protection may be significantly weaker than in the USA or the
New product candidates may appear promising in development
European Union. Some developing countries have reduced,
but, after significant investment, fail to reach the market or have
or threatened to reduce, effective patent protection for
only limited commercial success. This, for example, could be
pharmaceutical products generally, or in particular therapeutic
as a result of efficacy or safety concerns, an inability to obtain
areas, to facilitate early competition within their markets from
necessary regulatory approvals, difficulty manufacturing or
generic manufacturers. Any loss of patent protection, including
excessive manufacturing costs, erosion of patent terms as a result
reducing the scope of patent rights or compulsory licensing, could
of a lengthy development period, infringement of patents or other
materially and adversely affect the Group’s financial results in those
intellectual property rights of others or an inability to differentiate
national markets but is not expected to be material to the Group
the product adequately from those with which it competes.
overall. Absence of adequate patent protection could limit the
Furthermore, health authorities such as the US FDA, the European
opportunity to look to such markets for future sales growth.
Medicines Agency and the Japan Pharmaceuticals and Medicines
Device Agency have increased their focus on safety when assessing Risk of substantial adverse outcome of litigation and
the benefit/risk balance of drugs, which has made it more difficult government investigations
for pharmaceutical products to gain regulatory approval.
See Note 44 to the financial statements, ’Legal proceedings’,
There is also increasing pressure on healthcare budgets as the for a discussion of proceedings and governmental investigations
average age of the population in developed markets increases and – involving matters which if proven could give rise to civil and/
the absolute population in developing markets grows. Payers have or criminal liabilities – in which the Group is currently involved.
therefore increasingly demanded greater incremental benefit from Unfavourable resolution of these and similar future proceedings or
drugs before agreeing to reimburse suppliers at prices suppliers investigations may have a material adverse effect on the Group’s
consider appropriate. A failure to develop commercially successful financial condition and results of operations. The Group has
products or develop additional uses for existing products for any made material provisions in 2009 and prior years related to legal
of these reasons could materially and adversely affect the Group’s proceedings and investigations which reduced its earnings.
financial results.
GSK Annual Report 200935P–60P
weiver
ssenisuB
44
Risk factors
The Group may also make additional significant provisions related Sales, marketing and regulation
to legal proceedings and investigations in the future, which would The Group operates globally in complex legal and regulatory
reduce its earnings. In many cases the practice of the plaintiff bar environments that often vary among jurisdictions. The failure
is to claim damages in amounts that bear no relationship to the to comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations in these
underlying harm. Accordingly it may be potentially misleading for jurisdictions may result in civil and criminal legal proceedings.
the Group to quantify, based on the amount of damages claimed, As those rules and regulations change or as governmental
its potential exposure to claims, proceedings and investigations interpretation of those rules and regulations evolve, prior conduct
of the type described in Note 44 to the financial statements, may be called into question.
‘Legal proceedings’.
In the USA, for example, the Group is responding to federal
Recent insurance loss experience, including pharmaceutical product and state governmental investigations into pricing, marketing
liability exposures, has increased the cost of, and narrowed the and reimbursement of its prescription drug products. These
coverage afforded by, insurance for pharmaceutical companies investigations could result in related restitution or civil false claims
generally, including the Group. act litigation on behalf of the federal or state governments, as well
as related proceedings initiated against the Group by or on behalf
In order to contain insurance costs in recent years the Group has
of consumers and private payers. Such proceedings may result in
continued to adjust its coverage profile, accepting a greater degree
trebling of damages awarded or fines in respect of each violation
of un-insured exposure. In addition, where claims are made under
of law. Criminal proceedings may also be initiated against the
insurance policies, insurers may reserve the right to deny coverage
Group. Any of these consequences could materially and adversely
on various grounds. If denial of coverage is ultimately upheld
affect the Group’s financial results.
on these claims, this could result in additional charges that may
materially and adversely affect the Group’s financial results. Third party competition
Product liability litigation The Group operates in highly competitive markets. In the
pharmaceuticals business, it faces competition both from
Pre-clinical and clinical trials are conducted during the development
proprietary products of large international manufacturers and
of potential products to determine the safety and efficacy of
producers of generic pharmaceuticals. Significant product
products for use by humans following approval by regulatory
innovations, technical advances or the intensification of price
bodies. Notwithstanding these efforts, when drugs and vaccines
competition by competitors may materially and adversely affect
are introduced into the marketplace, unanticipated side effects may
the Group’s financial results. The Group cannot predict the timing
become evident.
or impact of competitive products or their potential impact
In other instances third parties may perform analyses of published on sales of the Group’s products. Continued consolidation in
clinical trial results which, although not necessarily accurate the pharmaceutical industry may adversely affect the Group’s
or meaningful, may raise questions regarding the safety of competitive position, while continued consolidation among the
pharmaceutical products which may be publicised by the media Group’s customers may increase pricing pressures.
and may result in product liability claims. The Group is currently
The Group had nine pharmaceutical products with over
a defendant in a number of product liability lawsuits, including
£500 million in annual global sales in 2009. Among these products
class actions, that involve substantial claims for damages related
are Augmentin IR and ES, Lamictal IR, Paxil and Valtrex for which
to the Group’s pharmaceutical products. Litigation, particularly in
there is generic competition in the USA.
the USA, is inherently unpredictable and excessive verdicts that are
not justified by the evidence can occur. Class actions that sweep If any of the Group’s major products were to become subject to a
together all persons who were prescribed the Group’s products can problem such as unplanned loss of patent protection, unexpected
inflate the potential liability by the force of numbers. Claims for side effects, regulatory proceedings, publicity affecting doctor or
pain and suffering and punitive damages are frequently asserted in patient confidence or pressure from competitive products, or if a
product liability actions and, if allowed, can represent potentially new, more effective treatment should be introduced, the Group’s
open ended exposure and thus could materially and adversely financial results may be materially and adversely affected.
affect the Group’s financial results.
In particular, the Group faces intense competition from
Anti-trust litigation manufacturers of generic pharmaceutical products in all of its
In the USA it has become increasingly common for patent major markets. Generic products often enter the market upon
infringement actions to prompt claims that anti-trust laws have expiration of patents or data exclusivity periods for the Group’s
been violated during the initial prosecution of the patent or during products. Introduction of generic products typically leads to a
litigation involving the defence of that patent. Such claims by dramatic loss of sales and reduces the Group’s revenues and
direct and indirect purchasers and other payers are typically filed margins for its proprietary products. The expiration dates for
as class actions. The relief sought may include treble damages and patents for the Group’s major products and a description of
restitution claims. Damages in adverse anti-trust verdicts are subject litigation settlements which may affect the dates on which generic
to automatic trebling in the USA. Similarly, anti-trust claims may be versions of the Group’s products may be introduced are set out on
brought following settlement of patent litigation, alleging that such page 12. Legal proceedings involving patent challenges are set out
settlements are anti-competitive and in violation of anti-trust laws. in Note 44 to the financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’.
A successful anti-trust claim against the Group could materially and
Governmental and payer controls
adversely affect the Group’s financial results.
Pharmaceutical products are subject to price controls or pressures
and other restrictions in many markets, including Japan, Germany,
Spain, France and Italy. Some governments intervene directly in
setting prices.
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
45
Risk factors
In addition, in some markets major purchasers of pharmaceutical Risk of interruption of product supply
products (whether governmental agencies or private health care The manufacture of pharmaceutical products and their constituent
providers) have the economic power to exert substantial pressure materials requires compliance with good manufacturing practice
on prices or the terms of access to formularies. regulations. The Group’s manufacturing sites are subject to
review and approval by the FDA and other regulatory agencies.
The Group cannot accurately predict whether existing controls,
Compliance failure by suppliers of key services and materials or
pressures or restrictions will increase or whether new controls,
the Group’s own manufacturing facilities could lead to product
pressures or restrictions will be introduced. Such measures may
recalls and seizures, interruption of production and delays in the
materially and adversely affect the Group’s ability to introduce
approvals of new products pending resolution of manufacturing
new products profitably and its financial results.
issues. Non-compliance can also result in fines and disgorgement
For example, in the USA, where the Group has its highest margins of profits. Any interruption of supply or the incurrence of fines or
and the most sales for any country, pricing pressures could disgorgement could materially and adversely affect the Group’s
significantly increase as experience continues to develop under financial results.
the outpatient pharmaceutical programme covering Medicare
Although the Group undertakes business continuity planning,
beneficiaries that began in 2006. Also, changes to the related
single sourcing for certain components, bulk active materials
enabling legislation could afford the US government a direct role
and finished products creates a risk of failure of supply in the
in negotiating prices under the Medicare programme.
event of regulatory non-compliance or physical disruption at the
In addition, the US Congress is considering comprehensive health manufacturing sites.
care reform legislation that could significantly expand the scope
Risk from concentration of sales to wholesalers
of government health care programs that include specific price
control mechanisms or that could increase the Group’s rebate In the USA, in line with other pharmaceutical companies, the
liability with respect to those programs. Group sells its products through a small number of wholesalers
in addition to hospitals, pharmacies, physicians and other
Additionally, a number of states have proposed or implemented groups. Sales to the three largest wholesalers amounted to
various schemes to control prices for their low-income and senior approximately 85% of the Group’s US pharmaceutical sales in
citizens’ programmes, including increasing the rebate liability of 2009. At 31st December 2009 the Group had trade receivables
pharmaceutical companies, importation from other countries due from these three wholesalers totalling £867 million
and bulk purchases of drugs. The growth in the number of (31st December 2008 – £1,067 million). The Group is exposed to
patients covered through large managed care institutions in the a concentration of credit risk in respect of these wholesalers such
USA, which has increased with implementation of the Medicare that, if one or more of them is affected by financial difficulty, it
benefit, also increases pricing pressures on the Group’s products. could materially and adversely affect the Group’s financial results.
Any of these trends may materially and adversely affect the
Group’s financial results. Global political and economic conditions
As described on page 27, many of the world’s largest economies,
Regulatory controls
including the major markets in which the Group operates, and
The Group must comply with a broad range of regulatory controls financial institutions have recently faced extreme financial difficulty,
on the testing, approval, manufacturing and marketing of many of including a decline in asset prices, liquidity problems and limited
its pharmaceutical and consumer healthcare products, particularly availability of credit. Many of these economies have experienced
in the USA and countries of the European Union, that affect not sharp recessions. While some economies have shown signs of
only the cost of product development but also the time required recovery, the rate of recovery may be slow.
to reach the market and the uncertainty of successfully doing
so. Health authorities have increased their focus on safety when Continued economic weakness may have a material adverse effect
assessing the benefit risk/balance of drugs in the context of not on the Group’s sales, results of operations, financial condition and
only initial product approval but also in the context of approval ability to raise capital. Some of the Group’s businesses, including
of additional indications and review of information regarding Consumer Healthcare, may be particularly sensitive to declines in
marketed products. Stricter regulatory controls also heighten the consumer spending. In addition, further or renewed declines in
risk of changes in product profile or withdrawal by regulators on asset prices may result in a lower return on the Group’s financial
the basis of post-approval concerns over product safety, which investments and may cause the value of the Group’s investments
could reduce revenues and can result in product recalls and product in its pension plans to decrease, requiring the Group to increase
liability lawsuits. There is also greater regulatory scrutiny, especially its funding of those pension plans.
in the USA, on advertising and promotion and in particular on
The Group conducts a substantial portion of its operations outside
direct-to-consumer advertising.
the UK. The Group’s management of foreign exchange rates is
In addition, in some cases the Group may voluntarily cease discussed in Business review, ‘Foreign exchange management’
marketing a product or face declining sales based on concerns (see page 42). Fluctuations in exchange rates between Sterling
about efficacy or safety (for example, the decline in sales of and other currencies, especially the US dollar, the Euro and the
Avandia beginning in 2007 following publicity around questions Japanese Yen, could materially and adversely affect the Group’s
regarding risks associated with the product), whether or not financial results.
scientifically justified, even in the absence of regulatory action.
The Group has no control over changes in inflation and interest
The development of the post-approval adverse event profile for a
rates, foreign currency exchange rates and controls or other
product or the product class may materially and adversely affect
economic factors affecting its businesses or the possibility of
the Group’s financial results.
political unrest, legal and regulatory changes or nationalisation
in jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
GSK Annual Report 200935P–60P
weiver
ssenisuB
46
Risk factors
Taxation and treasury Failure to manage properly the environmental risks could result
The Group’s effective tax rate is driven by rates of tax in in additional remedial costs that may materially and adversely
jurisdictions that are both higher and lower than that applied in affect the Group’s financial results. See Note 44 to the financial
the UK. In addition, many jurisdictions such as the UK, Belgium and statements, ‘Legal proceedings’, for a discussion of environmental-
the USA currently offer regimes that encourage innovation and related proceedings in which the Group is involved.
new scientific endeavours by providing tax incentives, for example
Accounting standards
R&D tax credits. Furthermore, given the scale and international New or revised accounting standards, rules and interpretations
nature of the Group’s business, intra-group transfer pricing is an
circulated from time to time by an international standard setting
inherent tax risk as it is for other international businesses. Changes
board could result in changes to the recognition of income and
in tax laws or in their application with respect to matters such as
expense that may materially and adversely affect the Group’s
transfer pricing, foreign dividends, controlled companies, R&D
financial results.
tax credits or a restriction in tax relief allowed on the interest on
intra-Group debt, could increase the Group’s effective tax rate and International standard changes in the market valuation of certain
materially and adversely affect its financial results. financial instruments are reflected in the Group’s reported results
before those gains or losses are actually realised and could have a
The tax charge included in the financial statements is the Group’s
significant impact on the income statement in any given period.
best estimate of its tax liability but, until such time as audits by
Accounting for deferred taxation on inter-company inventory
tax authorities are concluded, there is a degree of uncertainty
may give rise to volatility depending upon the ownership of
regarding the final tax liability for the period. The Group’s policy is
the inventory.
to submit tax returns within the statutory time limits and engage
tax authorities to ensure that the Group’s tax affairs are as current Regulators regularly review the financial statements of listed
as possible and that any differences in the interpretation of tax companies for compliance with accounting and regulatory
legislation and regulation are resolved as quickly as possible. In requirements.
exceptional cases where matters cannot be settled by agreement
The Group believes that it complies with the appropriate regulatory
with tax authorities GSK may have to resolve disputes through
requirements concerning its financial statements and disclosures.
formal appeals or other proceedings. The Group is currently
However, other companies have experienced investigations
appealing a court decision in respect of transfer pricing with the
into potential non-compliance with accounting and disclosure
Canadian Tax Authorities as discussed in Note 14 to the financial
requirements that have resulted in restatements of previously
statements, ‘Taxation’.
reported results and sometimes significant penalties, which may
The Group deals in high value transactions on a frequent basis materially and adversely affect the Group’s financial results.
which may result in an increased risk of financial loss due to the
Failure of third party providers
mismanagement of cash or entering into high risk positions on
Unaffiliated third-party suppliers provide a number of goods
hedge transactions, any of which could materially and adversely
and services to the Group’s operations. Many of these services,
affect the Group’s financial results.
for example services provided by clinical research organisations
Pandemic influenza to support development of key products, are very important to
The market for pandemic influenza vaccines is experiencing the operations of the Group’s businesses. Materials provided by
significant volatility given changes in risk perception, developing third-party suppliers are necessary for the commercial production
epidemiology and the relative mild nature of the virus, which of our products, including speciality chemicals, commodities
was not anticipated by governments or the medical community. and components necessary for the manufacture, fill-finish and
Some governments that have placed orders for the pandemic packaging of many of the Group’s pharmaceutical and Consumer
vaccine or that have announced changes in their planned Healthcare products. While the Group does not believe that any
immunisation programmes have renegotiated their contracts, of these third-party relationships are individually significant in the
and other governments are seeking, or may in the future seek, to context of the overall Group, the failure of any third-party supplier
renegotiate their contracts. While deliveries of pandemic vaccines to fulfil its contractual obligations in a timely manner may result in
provided significant contributions to the Group’s results in 2008 delays or service interruptions, which may materially and adversely
(H5N1 vaccines) and 2009 (H1N1 vaccines), and the Group expects affect the Group’s financial results.
the level of sales in 2010 (H1N1, possibly stockpile agreements) to
Protection of electronic information and assets
be roughly the same as in 2009, there can be no assurance that
The Group relies on critical and sensitive data, such as personally
sales of influenza vaccines will meet these estimates or contribute
identifiable information, trade secrets, intellectual property and
significantly to the Group’s results in 2011 or beyond.
corporate strategic plans. The security of such data is exposed to
Environmental liabilities increasing threats. The Group is also subject to various standards
The environmental laws of various jurisdictions impose actual and for the protection of personally identifiable information. Failure
potential obligations on the Group to remediate contaminated to implement appropriate safeguards to adequately protect
sites. The Group has also been identified as a potentially responsible against any unauthorised or unintentional access, acquisition,
party under the US Comprehensive Environmental Response use, modification, loss or disclosure of this critical or sensitive
Compensation and Liability Act at a number of sites for remediation data may adversely affect the Group’s operations.
costs relating to the Group’s use or ownership of such sites.
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
47
Risk factors
Alliances and acquisitions For example, the strategic priority to grow a diversified business
As part of the Group’s strategy to diversify into new product involves expanding the Group’s business into emerging markets.
areas and markets, the Group has grown, and expects to The Group’s pharmaceutical sales in emerging markets grew 20%
continue to grow, in part through acquisitions and business in 2009 to nearly £3 billion, which represents 10% of the Group’s
alliances. There is intense competition for alliance and acquisition 2009 turnover. There is no guarantee that the Group’s sales in
candidates in the pharmaceutical industry, and, as such, the Group emerging markets will continue to grow or that these markets
may be unable to make these deals on acceptable terms or at will continue to experience relatively high growth rates. Some
all. In acquiring or forming alliances with companies, the Group emerging markets may be especially vulnerable to the after-effects
may assume significant debt, become subject to unknown or of the recent global financial crisis, or may have very limited
contingent liabilities or fail to realise the benefits expected from resources to spend on healthcare. Competition in these markets
these transactions. For example, most pharmaceutical companies, for staff with the skills and training suitable for employment
including those that the Group may consider acquiring, are at an enterprise such as the Group’s may be intense. In some
involved in patent disputes, product liability litigation, government emerging markets, the Group may be required to rely on third-
investigations and other legal proceedings whose outcome is party agents, which may put the Group at risk of liability, and some
subject to considerable uncertainty. The assumption of debt or emerging markets lack sufficient protection against crimes such
unknown or contingent liabilities or the failure to realise the as counterfeiting. A failure to continue to expand its business in
expected benefits may materially and adversely affect the Group’s emerging growth markets could materially and adversely affect the
financial results. Group’s financial results.
The process of integrating companies the Group may acquire In addition, the Group is undertaking an Operational Excellence
may result in disruption to the ongoing business as the effort of restructuring programme that has an estimated cost of
integrating organisations in different locations and with, among approximately £4.5 billion and is expected to deliver annual pre-tax
other things, differing systems and corporate cultures may divert savings of approximately £2.2 billion by the time it is substantially
attention and resources, result in the loss of key employees or have complete in 2012. There can be no assurance that the Group
other adverse consequences, any of which may materially and will be able to execute fully this transformation of its business.
adversely affect the Group’s financial results. Furthermore, changes in the Group’s structure, operations,
revenues, costs or efficiency resulting from these restructuring
Attraction and retention
activities or other strategic initiatives could result in higher than
The Group relies heavily on recruiting and retaining talented expected costs or other difficulties. Failure to realise the expected
employees with a range of skills to meet its objectives. The Group cost savings by the end of the restructuring programme or to
faces intense competition for qualified individuals, as the supply achieve and maintain a competitive cost base could materially
of people with specific skills or in specific geographic regions and adversely affect the Group’s financial results.
may be limited, particularly given the Group’s plans to expand
its operations in emerging markets, Biologicals and Consumer
Healthcare.
The inability to attract staff with specific technical and leadership
skills, retain key employees or ensure effective succession planning
for critical positions may materially and adversely affect the Group’s
financial results.
Implementing the Group’s strategic priorities
The Group has established three strategic priorities: to grow a
diversified business, deliver more products of value and simplify its
operating model. There can be no assurance that the Group will be
able to implement its strategic priorities fully or that the strategic
priorities will deliver the expected benefits.
GSK Annual Report 200935P–60P
weiver
ssenisuB
48
Financial review 2008
In accordance with US SEC disclosure requirements, the following Pharmaceutical turnover
discussion compares results for the year to 31st December 2008 All growth rates included in the review of turnover are at constant
with the results for the year to 31st December 2007. exchange rates (CER) unless otherwise stated. Sterling growth
Exchange rates may be found in the tables of pharmaceutical turnover by
therapeutic areas on page 49.
The currencies that most influence the Group’s results remain the
US dollar, the Euro and the Japanese Yen. Total pharmaceutical turnover declined 3% for the year to
£20.4 billion, driven largely by US performance, down 11% to
In 2008, the pound weakened by 28% against the US dollar, to
£8.9 billion, which was impacted by expected generic competition
$1.44/£1 at year-end. In addition, the pound weakened by 24%
to several mature brands and further declines in Avandia sales.
against the Euro and by 40% against the Yen. A new £/€ record
Sales in Asia Pacific and Japan fell 1% to £1.9 billion, reflecting
low of 1.02 was set in December.
lower government orders for Relenza and the impact of
World market – pharmaceuticals pharmaceutical price cuts in Japan. These declines were partly
offset by growth in Europe, up 3% to £6.5 billion, and Emerging
Global pharmaceutical sales in 2008 were £366 billion compared
Markets, up 12% to £2.3 billion. In sterling terms, pharmaceutical
with £329 billion in 2007.
turnover grew by 6%, reflecting the weakness of Sterling against
World market by Value % of most major currencies.
geographic region £bn total
Pharmaceutical turnover by therapeutic area
USA 145 39
GSK turnover declined by 3% in 2008 as the impact of lower
Europe 112 31
Avandia sales, US generic competition to a range of GSK’s products
France 21 6
and lower flu pre-pandemic sales was partly offset by strong
Germany 20 6
growth of key products such as Advair, Valtrex, Epzicom, Avodart,
Italy 13 3
Lovaza and the vaccines franchise.
UK 12 3
Rest of World 109 30 Respiratory
Emerging markets 49 13 Respiratory sales increased 5% to £5.8 billion.
Asia Pacific 17 5
Sales of Seretide/Advair for asthma and COPD rose 8% to
Japan 33 9
£4.1 billion. In the USA, Advair sales rose 6% to £2.2 billion,
Canada 10 3
with a return to volume growth in the second half of the year.
Total 366 100 During 2008, the FDA granted Advair an indication in COPD for
prevention of exacerbations and this has helped grow the COPD
At 30th September 2008, GSK had three of the world’s top 60 sector of our Advair business. In Europe, sales increased by 4%
pharmaceutical products. These were Lamictal, Seretide/Advair to £1.4 billion. Advair performance was particularly strong in
and Valtrex. Emerging Markets, up 26% to £215 million, and Japan, where
sales of the product more than doubled to £83 million following
World market – Value % of its launch in 2007.
top six therapeutic classes £bn total
Anti-virals
Central nervous system 60 16
Cardiovascular 54 15 Anti-virals decreased 4% to £3.2 billion.
Alimentary tract and metabolic 44 12
GSK’s HIV business continues to experience strong competition.
Antineoplastic/Immunomodulatory 40 11
Epzicom/Kivexa grew by 23% to £442 million but this was more
Anti-infectives (bacterial, than offset by declines across the rest of the portfolio. Sales of
viral and fungal) excluding Valtrex, for herpes, rose 16% to £1.2 billion with US sales up
vaccines 38 10 20% fuelling the growth. Sales of flu anti-viral Relenza fell 80%
Respiratory 25 7 to £57 million reflecting fewer government orders for
pre-pandemic stockpiling.
(Note: data based on 12 months to 30th September 2008.)
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
49
Financial review 2008
Pharmaceutical turnover by therapeutic area 2008
Total USA Europe Rest of World
Therapeutic area/ % of 2008 2007 Growth 2008 Growth 2008 Growth 2008 Growth
major products total £m £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Respiratory 29 5,817 5,032 5 16 2,720 6 14 1,982 2 14 1,115 9 22
Seretide/Advair 4,137 3,499 8 18 2,161 6 14 1,416 4 17 560 29 42
Flixotide/Flovent 677 621 (2) 9 317 3 12 175 (4) 11 185 (9) 3
Serevent 263 269 (12) (2) 72 (9) (3) 136 (9) 1 55 (23) (10)
Veramyst 72 21 >100 >100 56 >100 >100 11 – – 5 >100 >100
Flixonase/Flonase 186 199 (15) (7) 52 (29) (28) 52 (6) 6 82 (8) 5
Anti-virals 16 3,206 3,027 (4) 6 1,600 (1) 7 850 (12) – 756 (1) 10
HIV 1,513 1,442 (5) 5 640 (7) – 636 (6) 7 237 4 13
Epzicom/Kivexa 442 324 23 36 178 15 25 209 25 40 55 48 67
Combivir 433 455 (14) (5) 180 (14) (8) 166 (19) (8) 87 1 10
Trizivir 212 233 (18) (9) 106 (18) (12) 92 (18) (6) 14 (20) (7)
Agenerase, Lexiva 160 141 2 13 83 (1) 6 61 – 15 16 40 60
Epivir 139 156 (20) (11) 47 (19) (11) 58 (22) (9) 34 (18) (13)
Ziagen 106 109 (11) (3) 45 (9) – 36 (11) – 25 (14) (11)
Valtrex 1,195 934 16 28 870 20 30 144 9 25 181 4 20
Zeffix 188 168 – 12 15 8 15 27 – 17 146 (1) 11
Relenza 57 262 (80) (78) 20 (86) (85) 6 (92) (92) 31 (49) (44)
Central nervous system 14 2,897 3,348 (21) (13) 1,815 (29) (24) 565 (1) 12 517 (3) 11
Lamictal 926 1,097 (22) (16) 711 (26) (20) 147 (8) 3 68 2 10
Imigran/Imitrex 687 685 (8) – 550 (9) (1) 96 (3) 8 41 (8) 8
Seroxat/Paxil 514 553 (19) (7) 79 (49) (45) 115 (14) (4) 320 (7) 10
Wellbutrin 342 529 (40) (35) 310 (44) (39) 18 >100 >100 14 8 8
Requip 266 346 (31) (23) 102 (60) (57) 133 29 46 31 65 82
Requip XL 43 – – – 9 – – 34 – – – – –
Treximet 25 – – – 25 – – – – – – – –
Cardiovascular and 9 1,847 1,554 8 19 1,107 6 14 512 10 28 228 15 25
urogenital
Avodart 399 285 27 40 242 27 38 118 21 39 39 48 56
Lovaza 290 5 >100 >100 289 >100 >100 – – – 1 – –
Coreg 203 587 (68) (65) 200 (68) (66) – – – 3 (67) (50)
Coreg CR 165 88 73 88 163 72 85 – – – 2 – –
Coreg IR 38 499 (93) (92) 37 (93) (92) – – – 1 (83) (83)
Fraxiparine 226 184 7 23 – – – 178 – 18 48 36 45
Arixtra 170 100 53 70 88 49 60 71 56 82 11 67 83
Vesicare 71 50 32 42 71 32 42 – – – – – –
Levitra 60 49 12 22 57 11 21 3 – 50 – – –
Metabolic 6 1,191 1,508 (28) (21) 590 (39) (34) 294 (11) 1 307 (14) (5)
Avandia products 805 1,219 (40) (34) 434 (49) (44) 198 (22) (12) 173 (25) (19)
Avandia 512 877 (46) (42) 299 (53) (49) 82 (33) (26) 131 (30) (25)
Avandamet 256 292 (21) (12) 109 (32) (26) 111 (13) – 36 – 6
Bonviva/Boniva 237 161 34 47 156 25 36 74 48 68 7 >100 >100
Anti-bacterials 7 1,429 1,323 (2) 8 174 (17) (11) 635 (6) 8 620 7 15
Augmentin 587 530 – 11 49 (31) (27) 272 – 14 266 11 18
Altabax 16 11 36 45 15 27 36 1 – – – – –
Oncology and emesis 2 496 477 (6) 4 243 (17) (11) 169 9 25 84 9 20
Hycamtin 140 119 7 18 81 7 16 49 5 23 10 11 11
Zofran 110 196 (51) (44) 3 (97) (96) 63 (21) (10) 44 (17) (8)
Tykerb 102 51 80 100 47 22 31 42 >100 >100 13 >100 >100
Vaccines 12 2,539 1,993 15 27 629 (7) – 1,155 28 44 755 21 34
Hepatitis 665 529 14 26 275 28 38 263 - 14 127 16 27
Infanrix/Pediarix 682 543 12 26 212 1 8 377 21 39 93 11 22
Fluarix, FluLaval 215 174 11 24 85 (20) (13) 78 63 90 52 37 49
Flu pandemic 66 146 (55) (55) 1 (99) (99) 64 25 25 1 - -
Cervarix 125 10 >100 >100 – – – 104 >100 >100 21 >100 >100
Rotarix 167 91 71 84 21 – – 43 61 87 103 46 51
Boostrix 70 66 (5) 6 35 (20) (13) 26 21 37 9 14 29
Other 5 959 901 (3) 6 16 (78) (75) 321 14 26 622 (1) 7
100 20,381 19,163 (3) 6 8,894 (11) (4) 6,483 3 17 5,004 5 16
CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates. £% represents growth at actual exchange rates.
GSK Annual Report 200935P–60P
weiver
ssenisuB
50
Financial review 2008
CNS Regional analysis
CNS sales decreased 21% to £2.9 billion. USA
Sales in the USA declined 11% to £8.9 billion, principally
The majority of GSK’s CNS franchise is now impacted by generic
reflecting a full year impact on Avandia (down 49%) and generic
competition in the USA, as generic competition to Lamictal, Imigran
competition to significant products such as Lamictal (down 26%),
and the remaining presentation of Wellbutrin started during
Imigran (down 9%), Wellbutrin XL (down 45%), Requip (down
the course of 2008. There was, however, some positive news as
60%) and Coreg IR (down 93%). These declines were partly offset Treximet was approved for migraine by the FDA in April 2008.
by Advair (up 6%), Valtrex (up 20%) and Lovaza (up 71% on
Cardiovascular and urogenital proforma basis).
Cardiovascular and urogenital sales increased 8% to £1.8 billion.
Europe
Strong growth across most of the portfolio of products was partly Sales in Europe increased 3% to £6.5 billion with continued growth
offset by generic competition to Coreg IR. Lovaza, for very high of Seretide and particularly strong vaccines growth offsetting
triglycerides, which was acquired from Reliant Pharmaceuticals in the impact of generic competition to a number of products and
2007, grew 71% on a proforma basis to £290 million and grew its continued price cuts from governments across the region.
US market share by 33%. Avodart, for benign prostatic hyperplasia
Emerging Markets
(enlarged prostate), grew 27% to £399 million taking a further
percentage point of market share, Arixtra, for deep vein thrombosis Sales in Emerging Markets increased 12% to £2.3 billion with
and pulmonary embolism, grew 53% to £170 million and Coreg strong growth in Russia (up 36%), China (up 22%) and Latin
CR grew 73% to £165 million. America (up 16%). The growth was fuelled primarily by vaccines,
up 32% to £0.5 billion, and the respiratory franchise, up 16%
Metabolic
to £0.4 billion.
Metabolic sales decreased 28% to £1.2 billion.
Asia Pacific/Japan
Strong growth of Bonviva/Boniva, for postmenopausal
Increased sales of Seretide/Advair (up 48% to £204 million) were
osteoporosis, up 34% to £237 million was not enough to offset
offset by lower orders for Relenza in Japan and some price cuts.
a full year impact to Avandia whose sales started to fall in May
2007. Avandia product sales declined 40% during the year to Consumer Healthcare turnover
£805 million, with US sales falling 49% to £434 million and
% of 2008 2007 Growth
European sales down 22% to £198 million. In Emerging Markets,
total £m £m CER% £%
Avandia product sales returned to growth in the second half of
Over-the-counter 49 1,935 1,788 (2) 8
the year (Q4 sales were up 12%).
medicines
Oncology and emesis Panadol franchise 324 263 12 23
Oncology and emesis sales decreased 6% to £0.5 billion. Smoking cessation products 299 314 (12) (5)
Tums 91 88 (5) 3
Tykerb, for breast cancer, continued to grow following approval
Cold sore franchise 89 79 3 13
in the USA last year. Approvals in other countries were achieved
Breathe Right 81 63 17 29
throughout 2008, with the European approval being achieved
alli 75 150 (53) (50)
in June.
Oral healthcare 31 1,240 1,049 6 18
Vaccines
Aquafresh franchise 452 398 3 14
Vaccine sales increased 15% to £2.5 billion.
Sensodyne franchise 363 293 12 24
Within the vaccines portfolio, there were strong performances Dental care 271 222 8 22
from Hepatitis vaccines (up 14% to £665 million) and combination
Nutritional healthcare 20 796 716 8 11
paediatric vaccines Infanrix/Pediarix (up 12% to £682 million).
Lucozade 382 347 7 10
Rotarix, for rotavirus gastroenteritis, rose 71% to £167 million,
Horlicks 204 174 13 17
largely driven by government tender orders in Latin America and
Ribena 161 156 – 3
the launch of the product in the USA in August. New cervical
cancer vaccine, Cervarix, recorded sales of £125 million for the 100 3,971 3,553 3 12
year, following several tender wins, including national government
* CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates. £% represents growth
orders in the UK and the Netherlands.
at actual exchange rates.
Total Consumer Healthcare sales for the year rose 3% to £4 billion.
This compares with growth of 14% in 2007, which benefited from
launch stocking of new anti-obesity treatment alli. 2008 sales of alli
were £75 million, down 53%. Excluding alli, Consumer Healthcare
sales rose 5% in 2008 (up 9% in 2007).
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
51
Financial review 2008
OTC medicines No costs arising from GSK’s ongoing operating activities have been
OTC product sales declined 2% to £1.9 billion in 2008, with sales of reported in the major restructuring column.
smoking cessation products down 12% to £299 million. Panadol sales
Any restructuring costs that do not arise solely as a direct result
grew 12% to £324 million, twice the global average in 2008.
of the Operational Excellence programme and restructuring
Oral healthcare programmes following, and relating to, acquisitions meeting the
criteria described above were reported in operating expenses
Sales of Oral healthcare products rose 6% to £1.2 billion, whereas
within results before major restructuring. These costs included
the market grew just 2%. There were strong performances from
restructuring costs related to minor acquisitions and £20 million
Sensodyne, up 12% to £363 million, and Aquafresh, up 3% to
of costs in 2008 (2007 – £92 million) that related to restructuring
£452 million. Sensodyne’s growth represented 35% of world
activity initiated before the commencement of the Operational
toothpaste growth in 2008 in markets where GSK competes.
Excellence programme. None of this restructuring activity had a
Nutritional healthcare material impact on GSK’s operating results or on the manner in
Within Nutritionals, Horlicks sales rose 13% to £204 million, which its business is conducted.
Lucozade sales rose 7% to £382 million and Ribena sales were flat
GSK’s operating profit, profit before taxation, taxation and profit
at £161 million, although sales of Lucozade and Ribena in the
for the year are discussed below in terms of both total results,
second half of the year declined slightly, largely as a result of poor
which include major restructuring costs, and results before
weather in the UK.
major restructuring.
Results before major restructuring and total
Operating profit – total results
results
Total results include restructuring costs related to the new
In October 2007, GSK announced a significant new Operational
Operational Excellence programme, which commenced in
Excellence restructuring programme. A second plan, representing
October 2007, and the Reliant restructuring programme.
a significant expansion of the Operational Excellence programme,
was approved by the Board and announced in February 2009.
2008 2007 Growth
This restructuring programme covers all areas of GSK’s business, £m % £m % CER% £%
including manufacturing, selling, R&D and infrastructure. With an
Turnover 24,352 100 22,716 100 (3) 7
estimated total cost of approximately £3.6 billion, the expanded
Cost of sales (6,415) (26.3) (5,317) (23.4) 13 21 programme had been expected to deliver annual pre-tax savings
Selling, general
of approximately £1.7 billion by the time it was expected to be
and administration (7,656) (31.4) (6,954) (30.6) 2 10
substantially complete in 2011. Approximately 40% of these
Research and
costs were incurred by 31st December 2008. Given the extent
and cost of the Operational Excellence programme, GSK presents development (3,681) (15.2) (3,327) (14.7) 4 11
the restructuring costs incurred solely as a direct result of the Other operating
Operational Excellence programme, which in 2008 amounted income 541 2.2 475 2.1
to £1,089 million before tax (2007 – £338 million), in a separate Operating profit 7,141 29.3 7,593 33.4 (20) (6)
column in the income statement titled ‘Major restructuring’.
Cost of sales
In addition to these restructuring costs, this column in the income
statement includes restructuring costs incurred solely as a direct Cost of sales increased to 26.3% of turnover (2007 – 23.4%).
result of any restructuring programmes that follow, and relate to At constant exchange rates, cost of sales as a percentage of turnover
material acquisitions where the operations of the acquired business increased by 3.8 percentage points to 27.2%, reflecting charges
overlap extensively with GSK’s existing operations. related to the major restructuring programmes of £639 million
(2007 – £111 million) and unfavourable product and regional
The $1.65 billion (£814 million) acquisition of Reliant Pharmaceuticals
mix compared with 2007, partly offset by savings from the
Inc. in December 2007 is the only acquisition since October 2007 that
restructuring programmes.
meets these criteria. The total restructuring costs incurred as a direct
result of this acquisition were £34 million, all of which have been Selling, general and administration
charged and paid in 2008. SG&A costs, including legal charges, were 31.4% of turnover
(2007 – 30.6%), an increase of 0.8 percentage points. At constant
As set out in Note 7 to the financial statements, ‘Major
exchange rates, the increase was 1.4 percentage points. Legal
restructuring programme’, asset impairments and staff
costs of £611 million (2007 – £255 million) included a £278 million
redundancies together accounted for £887 million of the
charge announced in January 2009 related to the US investigation
£1,123 million restructuring costs incurred in 2008 and reported
into GSK’s marketing and promotional practices which originated
in the major restructuring column (2007 – £338 million).
in Colorado. SG&A costs included charges of £304 million (2007
The remaining costs of £236 million in 2008 arose from – £137 million) related to the major restructuring programmes.
miscellaneous expenditures incurred solely as a direct result of Excluding legal costs, SG&A decreased by 1.6%.
the restructuring programmes, including consultancy and project
management fees, the termination of leases, site closure costs and,
with respect to 2008, the recognition of foreign exchange losses
following the liquidation of a subsidiary in Puerto Rico.
GSK Annual Report 200935P–60P
weiver
ssenisuB
52
Financial review 2008
Research and development Profit before taxation – total results
R&D expenditure increased 4% and included charges related Taking account of net finance costs and the share of profits
to the major restructuring programmes of £175 million of associates, total profit before taxation was £6,659 million
(2007 – £90 million). Excluding these charges, R&D expenditure compared with £7,452 million in 2007, a 24% CER decline and
increased 2% in CER terms as investment in the late stage pipeline an 11% sterling decline.
was partly offset by restructuring savings.
Operating profit – results before major
Other operating income restructuring
Other operating income of £541 million (2007 – £475 million)
The results before major restructuring are set out below:
included strong growth in royalty income to £307 million
(2007 – £216 million). Product, intellectual property and equity
2008 2007 Growth
investment disposals realised £230 million in 2008 compared with £m % £m % CER% £%
£90 million in 2007. The Roche litigation settlement was included
Turnover 24,352 100 22,716 100 (3) 7
in 2007.
Cost of sales (5,776) (23.7) (5,206) (22.9) 4 11
Operating profit – total results Selling, general
Total operating profit of £7,141 million decreased by 6% in and administration (7,352) (30.2) (6,817) (30.0) – 8
sterling terms and 20% in CER terms compared with 2007. Research and
Pharmaceuticals operating profit was £6,331 million, down 21%, development (3,506) (14.4) (3,237) (14.3) 2 8
while Consumer Healthcare operating profit fell by only 2% to Other operating
£810 million. income 541 2.2 475 2.1
In the year, gains from asset disposals and settlements were Operating profit 8,259 33.9 7,931 34.9 (10) 4
£293 million (2007 – £213 million), costs for legal matters were
£611 million (2007 – £255 million), fair value movements on Cost of sales
financial instruments resulted in a charge of £10 million Cost of sales increased by 0.8 percentage points to 23.7%
(2007 – income of £41 million) and charges relating to previous of turnover. At constant exchange rates the increase was 1.5
restructuring programmes were £20 million (2007 – £92 million). percentage points of turnover, principally reflecting the impact of
Charges related to the major restructuring programmes were generic competition to higher margin products in the USA, lower
£1,118 million (2007 – £338 million). The impact of all these items Avandia sales and a higher proportion of sales generated in lower
on total operating profit was a £1,466 million charge in 2008 margin vaccines, brands sold in Emerging Markets and Consumer
compared with a £431 million charge in 2007. Healthcare products. This was partly offset by savings from the
restructuring programmes.
Profit before taxation – total results
Net finance costs Selling, general and administration
SG&A costs, including legal charges, were 30.2% of turnover
2008 2007
Finance income £m £m (2007 – 30.0%). At constant exchange rates, SG&A costs increased
Interest and other finance income 322 255 by 0.7 percentage points to 30.7% of turnover. Legal costs of
Fair value adjustments and hedges (9) 7 £611 million (2007 – £255 million) included a £278 million charge
announced in January 2009 related to the US investigation into
313 262
GSK’s marketing and promotional practices which originated in
Colorado. Excluding legal costs, SG&A as a percentage of turnover
Finance costs
fell 1.2 percentage points to 27.7% (2007 – 28.9%). This was a
Interest costs (829) (434) 3% growth in sterling terms, but a 4% reduction at constant
Unwinding of discount on liabilities (16) (27) exchange rates, reflecting the benefits of the restructuring
Fair value adjustments and hedges 2 8 programmes. Selling and distribution fell by 1%, advertising and
(843) (453) promotion by 5% and general and administration expenditure,
excluding legal charges, by 7%.
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures
Research and development
The share of after tax profits of associates of £48 million
R&D expenditure increased by 2% to 14.4% of turnover
(2007 – £50 million) arises principally from the Group’s holding
(2007 – 14.3%) as investment in the late stage pipeline was partly
in Quest Diagnostics Inc.
offset by restructuring savings.
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
53
Financial review 2008
Other operating income Taxation
Other operating income of £541 million (2007 – £475 million)
2008 2007
included strong growth in royalty income to £307 million £m £m
(2007 – £216 million). Product, intellectual property and equity UK corporation tax 289 452
investment disposals realised £230 million in 2008 compared Overseas taxation 1,589 1,962
with £90 million in 2007. The Roche litigation settlement was
included in 2007. Current taxation 1,878 2,414
Deferred taxation 69 (272)
Operating profit – results before major restructuring
Taxation on total profits 1,947 2,142
Operating profit before major restructuring of £8,259 million for
the year increased by 4% in sterling terms but decreased by
The charge for taxation on profit before major restructuring
10% in CER terms compared with 2007. Pharmaceuticals
charges, amounting to £2,231 million (2007 – £2,219 million),
operating profit was £7,427 million, down 11%, while Consumer
and represents an effective tax rate of 28.7% (2007 – 28.5%).
Healthcare operating profit was flat in CER terms at £832 million.
The charge for taxation on total profits amounted to
Excluding legal costs, operating profit decreased by 6%, which
£1,947 million (2007 – £2,142 million) and represented an
was greater than the turnover decline of 3%, primarily due to
effective tax rate of 29.2% (2007 – 28.7%). The Group’s balance
higher cost of sales as a percentage of turnover.
sheet at 31st December 2008 included a tax payable liability of
In the year, gains from asset disposals and settlements were £780 million and a tax recoverable asset of £76 million.
£293 million (2007 – £213 million), costs for legal matters were
The Group’s main open tax issues are in the USA, Canada
£611 million (2007 – £255 million), fair value movements on
and Japan.
financial instruments resulted in a charge of £10 million
(2007 – income of £41 million) and charges relating to For the latest position on Taxation see ‘Taxation’ in the 2009
previous restructuring programmes were £20 million Financial review on page 34.
(2007 – £92 million). The impact of these items on operating
Profit for the year
profit before major restructuring was a £348 million charge in
2008 (2007 – £93 million).
2008 2007 Growth
£m £m CER% £%
Profit before taxation – results before major
Total profit after taxation
restructuring
for the year 4,712 5,310 (25) (11)
Net finance costs
Total profit attributable to
2008 2007 shareholders 4,602 5,214 (26) (12)
Finance income £m £m
Basic earnings per share (pence) 88.6p 94.4p (21) (6)
Interest and other income 322 255 Basic earnings per ADS (US$) $3.28 $3.77
Fair value adjustments and hedges (9) 7
Results before major restructuring
313 262
profit after taxation for the year 5,551 5,571 (14) –
Results before major restructuring
Finance costs
profit attributable to shareholders 5,441 5,475 (15) (1)
Interest costs (829) (434) Adjusted earnings per share (pence) 104.7p 99.1p (9) 6
Unwinding of discount on liabilities (11) (27) Adjusted earnings per ADS (US$) $3.87 $3.96
Fair value adjustments and hedges 2 8 Weighted average number
(838) (453) of shares (millions) 5,195 5,524
Diluted total earnings per share (pence) 88.1p 93.7p
Taking account of net finance costs and the share of profits of
Diluted total earnings per ADS (US$) $3.26 $3.75
associates, profit before tax before major restructuring was
Diluted weighted average number
£7,782 million compared with £7,790 million in 2007, a 14%
of shares (millions) 5,226 5,567
CER decline but flat in sterling terms.
Total results including restructuring costs produced a basic EPS of
88.6p compared with 94.4p in 2007. This was a 21% decline at
CER and a 6% decline in sterling terms.
Dividend
The Board has declared a fourth interim dividend of 17 pence per
share resulting in a dividend for the year of 57 pence, a four pence
increase over the dividend of 53 pence per share for 2007.
GSK Annual Report 200909P–45P
noitarenumer
dna
ecnanrevoG
54
Our Board
Sir Christopher Gent Professor Sir Roy Anderson Larry Culp (Aged 46) Julian Heslop (Aged 56)
(Aged 61) (Aged 62) Appointed on 1st July 2003. Appointed on 1st April 2005.
Appointed on 1st June 2004. Appointed on 1st October 2007. Non-Executive Director. Chief Financial Officer.
Chairman. Non-Executive Director. Mr Culp is President and Chief Mr Heslop joined Glaxo
Sir Christopher is a Non-Executive Professor Anderson is Executive Officer of Danaher Wellcome as Financial Controller
Director of Ferrari SpA and was Professor of Infectious Disease Corporation. Prior to joining in April 1998. In January 2001
the Chief Executive Officer of Epidemiology in the Faculty Danaher, he held positions in he was appointed Senior Vice
Vodafone Group plc, until his of Medicine, Imperial College, Accenture, previously Andersen President, Operations Controller.
retirement in July 2003. He is London. He is a member of the Consulting. Prior to joining the Group he
a Non-Executive Director of International Advisory Board held senior finance roles at
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc, of Hakluyt & Co. Ltd. He is a Grand Metropolitan.
a member of KPMG’s Chairman’s fellow of the Royal Society and
Advisory Group, a Senior Adviser a Foreign Associate Member
at Bain & Co. and a member of of the Institute of Medicine
the Advisory Board of Reform. at the US National Academy
of Sciences and the French
Academy of Sciences.
His former positions include
Rector of Imperial College and
Chief Scientific Adviser at the
Ministry of Defence in the UK.
Andrew Witty (Aged 45) Dr Stephanie Burns Sir Crispin Davis (Aged 60) Sir Deryck Maughan
Appointed on 31st January (Aged 55) Appointed on 1st July 2003. (Aged 62)
2008. Chief Executive Officer. Appointed on 12th February Non-Executive Director. Appointed on 1st June 2004.
Mr Witty was named Chief 2007. Non-Executive Director. Until March 2009 Sir Crispin Non-Executive Director.
Executive Officer Designate Dr Burns is Chairman, President was Chief Executive Officer of Sir Deryck is a Partner of
for GSK in October 2007 and and Chief Executive Officer of Reed Elsevier PLC. Prior to that Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co,
was appointed Chief Executive Dow Corning Corporation. appointment, he was Chief and a Non-Executive Director of
Officer (CEO) on 21st May She is also a member of the Executive of Aegis Group plc, Thomson Reuters and BlackRock
2008. He joined the Group American Chemical Society and which he joined from Guinness Inc. He was formerly Chairman
in 1985 and has held senior sits on the Executive Committee plc, where he was a member and Chief Executive Officer of
positions in Asia, Africa and of the Society of Chemical of the main Board and Group Citigroup International and of
the USA. Immediately prior to Industry, America Section, serves Managing Director of United Salomon Brothers Inc.
being appointed CEO, Andrew on the Board of Directors of the Distillers. He spent his early
was President, Pharmaceuticals American Chemistry Council, career with Procter & Gamble,
Europe, a position he held from and on the Board of Directors including as President of the
January 2003. He is a member for the Society for Women’s company’s US Food Division.
of the Business Council for Health Research. Dr Burns holds
Britain, a Board Member of a PhD in organic chemistry from
PhRMA, President of EFPIA, Iowa State University.
a Member of the Singapore
Economic Development Board’s
International Advisory Council
and an Adviser to the Governor
of Guangzhou, China.
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
55
Our Board
James Murdoch (Aged 37) Dr Moncef Slaoui (Aged 50) Sir Robert Wilson
Appointed on 20th May 2009. Appointed on 17th May (Aged 66)
Non-Executive Director. 2006. Chairman, Research & Appointed on 1st November
Mr Murdoch is Chairman Development. 2003. Non-Executive Director &
and Chief Executive, Europe and Dr Slaoui joined GSK Biologicals Senior Independent Director.
Asia of News Corporation. in 1988 where he engineered Sir Robert is Non-Executive
He is also Non-Executive the development of a Chairman of BG Group plc.
Chairman of BSkyB and a robust vaccines pipeline and He was previously Executive
member of the Board of News subsequently led Worldwide Chairman of Rio Tinto plc until
Corporation. He served as Chief Business Development for his retirement in October 2003
Executive Officer of BSkyB from pharmaceuticals before his and Chairman of The Economist
2003 to 2007 and was also appointment to lead R&D. Group between 2003 and 2009.
previously Chairman and Chief He is a member of the Board
Executive Officer of Star TV. of the Agency for Science,
He also serves on the Leadership Technology & Research (A*STAR)
Council of The Climate Group. and has a PhD in Molecular
Biology and Immunology from
Université Libre de Bruxelles.
Dr Daniel Podolsky Tom de Swaan (Aged 63) Other Directors
(Aged 56) Appointed on 1st January 2006. Sir Ian Prosser and Dr Ronaldo
Appointed on 1st July 2006. Non-Executive Director. Schmitz both retired from the
Non-Executive Director. Mr de Swaan is Chairman Board on 20th May 2009.
Dr Podolsky is President of the of the Supervisory Board of
University of Texas Southwestern VanLanschot Bankiers and a
Medical Center in Dallas and holds member of the Board of Directors
the Phillip O’Bryan Montgomery, of Zurich Financial Services.
Jr., M.D. Distinguished Presidential He is also Vice Chairman of the
Chair in Academic Administration, Supervisory Board and Chairman
and the Doris and Bryan of the Audit Committee of Royal
Wildenthal Distinguished Chair in Ahold and a member of the
Medical Science. He is a member Supervisory Board of Royal DSM.
of the Institute of Medicine of the Until January 2006, he was a
US National Academy of Sciences. member of the Managing Board
He is also Chairman of the Board and Chief Financial Officer of
and Scientific Co-Founder of the ABN AMRO.
GI Company.
GSK Annual Report 200909P–45P
noitarenumer
dna
ecnanrevoG
56
Our Corporate Executive Team (CET)
John Clarke Abbas Hussain
President, Consumer Healthcare President, Emerging Markets
John is responsible for the Abbas joined GSK in June 2008
Consumer Healthcare business from Eli Lilly and Company,
which produces oral healthcare, where he spent 20 years
over-the-counter and nutritional overseeing markets throughout
healthcare products. He joined Europe, Africa/Middle East
Beecham in 1976 and was the and Australasia.
Andrew Witty President of the Future Group Eddie Gray
Chief Executive Officer before his current appointment President,
Andrew was appointed Chief in January 2006. Pharmaceuticals Europe
Executive Officer in May 2008. Eddie became responsible
He joined Glaxo UK in 1985. for the Group’s operations
During his career with the in Europe in January 2008.
company he has held the roles of He joined Beecham in 1988
Managing Director South Africa, and, prior to his current
Vice President and General appointment, was Senior Vice
Manager Marketing in the President and General Manager,
USA and Senior Vice President, Pharmaceuticals UK. Duncan Learmouth
Asia Pacific. He was appointed Senior Vice President,
President, Pharmaceuticals Deirdre Connelly Global Communications
Europe for GlaxoSmithKline in President, North America Duncan is responsible for the
January 2003. Pharmaceuticals Group’s investor relations,
Deirdre joined GSK in February internal and external
2009 after working at Eli Lilly communications, corporate
and Company for 24 years. responsibility and partnerships
She held a variety of positions with communities. He joined
including sales professional, Glaxo in 1991 and was Vice
General Manager of Puerto Rico, President, Global Investor
Executive Director of Human Julian Heslop Relations, before appointment to
Resources and most recently Chief Financial Officer his current position in July 2006.
President of US Operations. Julian became Chief Financial
Officer in April 2005. As head
Simon Bicknell of the finance function he is
Senior Vice President, responsible for activities such as
Company Secretary & Corporate financial reporting and control,
Compliance Officer tax and treasury, finance systems
Simon ensures that compliance and insurance. He joined Glaxo
and risk management are Wellcome as Financial Controller
effectively embedded within the in April 1998.
business and oversees corporate
Marc Dunoyer Bill Louv
governance for the Group.
President, Pharmaceuticals Chief Information Officer
He is also responsible for
Asia Pacific/Japan Bill was appointed Chief
internal audit and assurance.
Marc was appointed President, Information Officer in January
Simon joined the Corporate
Pharmaceuticals Asia Pacific/ 2007. He is responsible for
Secretariat in 1984. He was
Japan in May 2008. In addition information technology across
appointed Deputy Company
to his current role he was GSK. Bill joined Glaxo in 1994
Secretary of Glaxo Wellcome in
appointed Chairman GSK Japan as Vice President, Medical Data
1995 and Company Secretary of
in January 2010 and in February Sciences. Prior to his current role,
GlaxoSmithKline plc in 2000.
2010 to lead the rare diseases Bill was Senior Vice President,
business of GSK from R&D to R&D Information Technology.
commercialisation. He joined
the Group in 1999 and was
President, Pharmaceuticals Japan
from January 2000 until his
current appointment.
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
57
Our Corporate Executive Team (CET)
David Redfern Dan Troy
Chief Strategy Officer Senior Vice President
David is responsible for proactive and General Counsel
exploration of new business Dan joined GSK as Senior Vice
opportunities and strategic President and General Counsel
planning. He began his career in September 2008. Previously he
with GSK in 1994 in Corporate was a Partner at the Washington
Development before being law firm Sidley Austin LLP and
Dan Phelan Jean Stéphenne
appointed Finance Director of Chief Counsel for the FDA.
Chief of Staff President and General Europe Pharmaceuticals in 1999. From 2006–2007 he chaired the
Dan is responsible for Corporate Manager, Biologicals
He was appointed Area Director America Bar Association’s Section
Strategy and Development, IT, Jean has led GSK’s global
for Central Europe in 2003 and of Administrative Law, and was
HR, Real Estate and Facilities, vaccines business since 1989.
Northern Europe in 2005. previously adjunct scholar at the
Environmental Health and Safety, Previously he was Vice President
American Enterprise Institute in
and Global Security. He joined of Human Vaccines Research
Washington, DC.
Smith Kline & French in 1981 and Development and
and previously held the role of Production. He joined the
Senior Vice President, Human company in 1974 as Head of
Resources until his appointment Bacterial and Viral Vaccines
as Chief of Staff in May 2008. production. Jean was named
Baron by King Albert II of the
Belgians in 2000 in recognition
of his leading contribution to
Moncef Slaoui R&D and industry in Belgium.
Chairman, Research
& Development
Moncef leads the Group’s drug
discovery and development
activities. He joined the Group
in 1988 and was a key player in
David Pulman
building GSK’s vaccines pipeline.
President, Global
In 2003 he was appointed
Manufacturing and Supply
Senior Vice President, Worldwide
David is responsible for the
Business Development until his
Global Manufacturing and Claire Thomas
current appointment in
Supply organisation and Senior Vice President,
June 2006.
Global Procurement. He joined Human Resources
Glaxo in 1978. He has broad Claire leads the global Human
experience of manufacturing Resources (HR) function.
operations having previously led Previously, she oversaw HR in
the Primary Supply, European Pharmaceuticals International
manufacturing, North American and in Pharmaceuticals Europe.
manufacturing, Global Logistics Claire joined the company
and Manufacturing in 1996 and was appointed
Strategy organisations. Director of Human Resources
for UK Pharmaceuticals in 1997.
Claire was honoured as an
Outstanding European Woman
of Achievement in 2007.
GSK Annual Report 200909P–45P
noitarenumer
dna
ecnanrevoG
58
Corporate governance
Governance and policy Chairman and CEO
This section discusses GSK’s management structures and Sir Christopher Gent has chaired the company since 1st January
governance procedures. The section, together with the 2005 and was Chairman throughout 2009.
Remuneration Report on pages 73 to 90, includes details of
Mr Witty is the Chief Executive Officer (CEO). Mr Witty’s
how the company applies and complies with the principles and
biographical details can be found on pages 54 and 56.
provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance of the
The Chairman leads the Board, and represents the Board to
Financial Reporting Council (Combined Code) and with US laws
the CEO and other CET members as necessary between Board
and regulation.
meetings. The CEO manages the Group and implements the
The Board and Corporate Executive Team strategy and policies adopted by the Board. The Chairman and
The Directors are listed under ‘Our Board’ on pages 54 to 55. the Chairmen of Board Committees communicate regularly with
the CEO and other CET members. The division of responsibilities
The Board is responsible for the Group’s system of corporate between the role of Chairman and the CEO has been set out in
governance and is ultimately accountable for the Group’s activities, writing, agreed by the Board and appears in full on the
strategy, risk management and financial performance. company’s website.
Independence
The CEO is responsible for executive management of the Group
The Board considers all its Non-Executive Directors to be and is assisted by the CET. The CET meets at least 11 times per year
independent in character and judgement. and otherwise as necessary. The members and their responsibilities
are listed under ‘Our Corporate Executive Team’ (pages 56 to 57).
Dr Schmitz served on the Board for more than ten years until his
retirement as a Director on 20th May 2009, having been appointed Senior Independent Director
to the Board of Glaxo Wellcome plc on 1st January 1997. Sir Robert Wilson was appointed Senior Independent Director (SID)
During consideration of the Annual Review of Board effectiveness on 20th May 2009, following Sir Ian Prosser’s retirement from the
at its meeting in January 2009, the Board concluded that Board on that date. Sir Ian had held the role since January 2005.
Dr Schmitz remained independent, notwithstanding his length
of service. In the opinion of the Board, Dr Schmitz continued Board process
to demonstrate the characteristics of independence, such as The Board has the authority, and is accountable to shareholders,
objectively challenging management and taking part in rigorous for ensuring that the Group is appropriately managed and
debate, while at the same time possessing an outstanding achieves the strategic objectives it sets. The Board discharges those
knowledge of the company’s business and affairs, together with responsibilities through an annual programme of meetings which
his experience gained as Chairman of the Audit Committee. In a includes the approval of overall budgetary planning and business
long cycle investment business, such as GSK, it was considered strategy. The Board reviews the Group’s internal controls and risk
to be particularly important to have experienced members on the management policies and approves its governance structure and
Board. Sir Ian Prosser was also considered to be independent in code of ethics.
accordance with the recommendations of the Combined Code
The Board appraises and approves major financing, investment and
prior to his retirement from the Board.
licensing decisions in excess of defined thresholds. In addition, the
When Sir Christopher Gent was appointed to the Board as Deputy Board evaluates and monitors the performance of the Group as a
Chairman, he was determined by the Board to be independent. whole. This includes:
Upon taking up the chairmanship of the Board on 1st January
• engaging at Board meetings with the CEO, the other Executive
2005, in accordance with the Combined Code, he was excluded
Directors and members of the CET as appropriate, on the
from the determination of whether at least half the Board are
financial and operating performance of GSK and external
independent Non-Executive Directors. Sir Christopher Gent is a
issues material to the Group’s prospects
member of the Remuneration Committee, as permitted by the
• evaluating progress towards the achievement of the Group’s
Combined Code, in light of his independence upon appointment
financial and business objectives and annual plans
as Chairman.
• monitoring, through reports received directly or from various
The Board considers that Professor Sir Roy Anderson, Dr Burns,
committees, the significant risks facing the Group.
Mr Culp, Sir Crispin Davis, Sir Deryck Maughan, Mr Murdoch,
Dr Podolsky, Mr de Swaan and Sir Robert Wilson are independent
in accordance with the recommendations of the Combined Code.
At the date of publication and throughout 2009, a majority of the
Board members, excluding the Chairman, were independent
Non-Executive Directors.
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
59
Corporate governance
The Board has overall responsibility for succession planning for Independent advice
the CEO and the other Executive Directors. The Board has given The Board recognises that there may be occasions when one or
the CEO broad authority to operate the business of the Group, more of the Directors feel it is necessary to take independent legal
and the CEO is accountable for, and reports to the Board on, and/or financial advice at the company’s expense. There is an
the performance of the business. CET members make regular agreed procedure to enable them to do so. This is explained in the
presentations to the Board on their areas of responsibility, and Governance section of the company’s website.
the Board meets with all the CET members on an annual basis
Indemnification of Directors
to discuss collectively the Group’s strategy.
Qualifying third party indemnity provisions (as defined in section
A primary element of the induction process for new Non-Executive
234 of the Companies Act 2006) are in force for the benefit of the
Directors is undertaken by members of the CET, and all Non-
Directors and former Directors who held office during 2009.
Executive Directors are encouraged to have separate informal
discussions at their discretion with any CET members. Directors’ conflicts of interest
Directors have a duty to avoid a situation in which they have, or
The Board met six times in 2009, with each member attending
can have, a direct or indirect conflict of interest or possible conflict
as follows:
of interest with the company. The duty applies in particular to the
Number of meetings exploitation of any property, information or opportunity, whether
held whilst a Board Number of
or not GSK could take advantage of it. The company’s Articles of member meetings attended
Association include a general power for the Board to authorise
Sir Christopher Gent 6 6 such conflicts. There is no breach of duty if the relevant matter
Mr A Witty 6 6 has been so authorised in advance.
Mr J Heslop 6 6
The Board has established procedures for handling situational
Dr M Slaoui 6 6 conflicts of interest, which are in line with the best practice
Professor Sir Roy Anderson 6 6 guidance issued by the General Counsel 100 Group and in
Dr S Burns 6 6 accordance with the company’s Articles. It has authorised the
Mr L Culp 6 6 Nominations Committee to grant and review periodically, but in
any event annually, any potential or actual conflict authorisations.
Sir Crispin Davis 6 6
Directors are not counted in the quorum for the authorisation of
Sir Deryck Maughan 6 6
their own actual or potential conflicts. The Company Secretary
Mr J Murdoch* 4 4
minutes the consideration of any conflict. Authorisations granted
Dr D Podolsky 6 6 are recorded by the Company Secretary in a register of conflict
Mr T de Swaan 6 6 authorisations which are noted by the Board at its next meeting.
Sir Robert Wilson 6 6 On an ongoing basis, the Directors are responsible for informing
the Company Secretary of any new, actual or potential conflicts
Sir Ian Prosser* 3 3
that may arise or, if there are any changes in circumstances that
Dr R Schmitz* 3 3
may affect an authorisation previously given. Even when provided
with authorisation, a Director is not absolved from his or her duty
* Mr James Murdoch was appointed to the Board on 20th May 2009.
Sir Ian Prosser and Dr Ronaldo Schmitz retired from the Board on 20th to promote the success of the company. If an actual conflict arises
May 2009. post authorisation, the Board will choose to exclude the Director
from the relevant information and debate, or suspend the Director
In addition to the six scheduled meetings, the Board also met on a
from the Board, or, as a last resort, require the Director to resign.
quorate basis on six occasions.
Company Secretary
Business environment development
The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board and is
To ensure that the Board is kept up-to-date on important matters,
available to individual Directors in respect of Board procedures.
including legal, governance and regulatory developments,
The Company Secretary is Mr Simon Bicknell, who was appointed
presentations are made on a regular basis by both external and
in May 2000. He is a barrister and joined the Group in 1984. He is
internal advisers.
Secretary to all of the Board Committees except the Remuneration
In addition, Non-Executive Directors gain greater insight and Committee. The Deputy Company Secretary, Mrs Victoria Whyte,
understanding of the business through visits to Group operational was appointed Secretary to the Remuneration Committee with
facilities and attendance at various internal management meetings, effect from 27th January 2009. She is a solicitor and a Fellow of
including CET, Research & Development Executive and Product the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
Marketing Board meetings, on an ad hoc basis.
Board Committees
A customised induction process is conducted for each of the new The Board has established a number of committees and
Non-Executive Directors focusing on their particular experience and provides sufficient resources to enable them to undertake their
taking account of their different backgrounds. This process includes duties. Executive Directors are not members of the Audit &
meeting members of the CET and other senior executives and Risk, Remuneration, Nominations or Corporate Responsibility
visiting particular operational facilities of the Group. Committees, although they may be invited to attend meetings.
Each Director is a member of the Corporate Administration &
Transactions and Finance Committees.
GSK Annual Report 200909P–45P
noitarenumer
dna
ecnanrevoG
60
Corporate governance
Corporate governance framework
BOARD
(Chairman, 3 Executive Directors and 9
Independent Non-Executive Directors)
Audit & Risk Committee Remuneration Committee Corporate Responsibility
Chief Executive
5 Independent 5 Independent Non-Executive 3 Independent Non-Executive
Officer
Non-Executive Directors Directors and the Chairman Directors and the Chairman
Nominations Committee Finance Committee Corporate Administration
4 Independent Non-Executive Executive and Non-Executive & Transactions Committee CET
Directors and the Chairman Directors Directors and CET Members
Key
Board Committees
Management Committee
Current membership of these Committees is shown in the table below.
Corporate
Audit & Risk Remuneration Nominations Responsibility
Sir Christopher Gent – M C C
Professor Sir Roy Anderson M – – –
Dr S Burns – – – M
Mr L Culp – M M –
Sir Crispin Davis – C M –
Sir Deryck Maughan M – M –
Mr J Murdoch – M – M
Dr D Podolsky M – – M
Mr T de Swaan C M – –
Sir Robert Wilson M M M –
Key: C = Chairman M = Member
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
61
Corporate governance
Each Committee has written terms of reference which have been approved by the Board. The following is a summary of the role and
terms of reference of each Committee. The current full terms of reference of each Committee may be obtained from the Company
Secretary or the Governance section of the company’s website.
No of meetings Committee Report
Committee Role and Terms of Reference Membership comprises per year on page
Audit & Risk Reviews the financial and internal reporting Independent Non- ≥ 4 67–69
process, the system of internal controls, the Executive Directors
identification and management of risks and the
external and internal audit process. The Committee
also proposes to shareholders the appointment of
the external auditors and is directly responsible for
their remuneration and oversight of their work.
Remuneration Determines the terms of service and remuneration Independent Non- ≥ 4 73–90
of the Executive Directors and members of the Executive Directors
CET and, with the assistance of external and the Chairman
independent advisers, it evaluates and makes
recommendations to the Board on overall executive
remuneration policy.
(The Chairman and the CEO are responsible for
evaluating and making recommendations to the
Board on the remuneration of Non-Executive
Directors.)
Nominations Reviews the structure, size and composition of Independent Non- ≥ 2 70
the Board and appointment of members to the Executive Directors
Board and the CET, and makes recommendations and the Chairman
to the Board as appropriate. The Committee also
monitors the planning of succession to the Board
and Senior Management.
Corporate Provides a Board-level forum for the regular Independent Non- ≥ 3 71
Responsibility review of external issues that have the potential Executive Directors
for serious impact upon the Group’s business and and the Chairman
reputation. The Committee is also responsible
for oversight of GSK’s worldwide donations and
community support.
Finance Reviews and approves, on behalf of the Board, Executive and Non- As necessary –
the Annual Report and Form 20-F, and convening Executive Directors
of the AGM, together with the preliminary
and quarterly statements of trading results.
It also approves certain major licensing and
capital transactions and changes to the Group’s
Investment Instrument and Counterparty Limits.
Corporate Reviews and approves matters in connection with Executive and Non- As necessary –
Administration the administration of the Group’s business and Executive Directors,
& Transactions certain corporate transactions. CET members
and the Company
Secretary
GSK Annual Report 200909P–45P
noitarenumer
dna
ecnanrevoG
62
Corporate governance
Evaluation of the Board, Board Committees and Directors Dialogue with shareholders
In 2008 the Board commissioned Dr Long of Boardroom Review to Financial results are announced quarterly.
act as an independent facilitator for the Board’s evaluation process.
The company reports formally to shareholders twice a year, when
The actions from this process formed the basis of the Board’s
its half-year and full-year results are announced. The full-year
internal review process for 2009 namely:
results are included in the company’s Annual Report which is
• Identify how to utilise the time spent in Board and Committee
published for shareholders.
meetings more effectively and facilitate further contribution by
Non-Executive Directors on a broader range of issues The company now produces an annual Summary which is sent to
• S eek to enhance further the Non-Executive Directors’ all shareholders to advise them of the availability of the Annual
continuing education process beyond their initial induction Report and Notice of Meeting on www.gsk.com. The CEO and
CFO give presentations on the full-year results to institutional
• P rovide greater visibility to the Board of GSK’s executive talent
investors, analysts and the media.
and the management succession planning process.
There are normally webcast teleconferences after the release of
The Senior Independent Director, Sir Robert Wilson, conducted
the first, second and third quarter results for institutional investors,
the 2009 evaluation of the performance of the Chairman, the
analysts and the media. The Annual Report, Summary and
Board and its Committees and Directors in collaboration with the
quarterly results are available on the company’s website.
Committee Chairmen.
The AGM takes place in London, and formal notification is sent
The Board evaluation process included a one-to-one interview
to shareholders at least one month in advance. At the Meeting, a
with each Director. The topics discussed included a variety of
business presentation is made to shareholders and all Directors able
aspects associated with Board effectiveness including Board to attend are available, formally during the AGM, and informally
and Committee roles and responsibilities, culture and dynamics,
afterwards, for questions. Committee Chairmen ordinarily attend
processes and support and individual effectiveness. Feedback from
the AGM to respond to shareholders’ questions. The entire Board
the evaluation was provided in the form of a written report to the
was in attendance at the company’s AGM in May 2009, save for
Board, which then discussed its findings.
Sir Deryck Maughan who was prevented from attending due to
The Chairman of each of the Board Committees undertook urgent business commitments which arose shortly before the
separate evaluations and the outcome of each was reported to the meeting. All resolutions at the AGM are decided on a poll as
respective Committee and the Board. required by the company’s Articles of Association. The results of the
poll are announced to the London Stock Exchange and posted on
The Board review concluded that there was a high level of
the company’s website. Details of the 2010 AGM are set out in the
satisfaction with the way in which Mr Witty had grown into the
section ‘Annual General Meeting’ (see page 65) and the Notice of
CEO role and with the openess of dialogue between the Executive
AGM is published on the company’s website.
Directors and Non-Executive Directors. Board members also met
separately, without the Chairman being present, to discuss the To ensure that the Non-Executive Directors are aware of and
Chairman’s performance and contribution. There was also a high understand the views of major shareholders about the company,
level of confidence in Sir Christopher’s Chairmanship of the Board. the Board has in place a process focusing on sector-specific issues,
He had the unanimous and unequivocal support of the other as well as general shareholder preferences.
Directors, both Executive and Non-Executive.
The CEO, CFO and Chairman maintain a dialogue with institutional
The Board and its Committees were believed to be operating shareholders on performance, plans and objectives through a
effectively at a high level. programme of regular meetings. Since his appointment as CEO in
May 2008, Mr Witty has undertaken an extensive ongoing series of
The Board agreed the following actions after discussion of the
meetings with GSK’s institutional shareholders.
evaluation report:
The Group’s Investor Relations department, with offices in London
• Identify how to increase further the amount of Board time
and Philadelphia, acts as a focal point for contact with investors
devoted to strategic discussion and the indicators of success in
throughout the year.
delivery of the R&D pipeline
The Chairman meets regularly with institutional investors to
• Devote more time to focused consideration of the company’s
hear their views and discuss issues of mutual importance and
key risks on an ongoing basis
communicates the views of investors to the Board as a whole.
• Provide the Board with more regular updates and insights into The SID is also available to shareholders.
the newly enhanced management succession
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, the Chairman, and
planning process.
the SVP, Human Resources meet annually with major shareholders
The Board has taken a policy decision to undertake an externally to discuss executive remuneration policy.
facilitated evaluation process every three years. In the intervening
All Non-Executive Directors, including new appointees, are available
period the review will be facilitated by the SID or the Chairman.
to meet with major shareholders if requested.
The company’s website provides access to current financial and
business information about the Group.
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
63
Corporate governance
Share capital and control The Bank of New York Mellon is the Depositary for the company’s
Details of the company’s authorised and issued share capital and ADS, which are listed on the New York Stock Exchange. Ordinary
the number of shares held in Treasury, as at 31st December 2009, Shares representing the company’s ADR program, which are
can be found in Note 33 to the financial statements, ‘Share capital managed by the Depositary, are registered in the name of BNY
and share premium account’. GSK’s shares are listed on the London (Nominees) Limited. Details of the number of Ordinary Shares held
Stock Exchange and are also quoted on the New York Stock by the Depositary can be found on page 183.
Exchange (NYSE) in the form of American Depositary shares (ADS). The company has not acquired or disposed of any interests in
Each ADS represents two Ordinary Shares. its own shares during the period under review. Details of shares
The holders of Ordinary Shares are entitled to receive dividends, purchased in prior years, those cancelled, and those held as
when declared, and the company’s report and accounts, to attend Treasury shares are disclosed in Note 33 to the financial statements
and speak at General Meetings of the company, to appoint proxies ‘Share capital and share premium account’.
and to exercise voting rights. Directors and Officers
There are no restrictions on transfer, or limitations on the holding The interests of Directors and Officers and their connected
of Ordinary Shares and no requirements to obtain prior approval persons in the issued share capital of the company are given in the
to any transfers. No Ordinary Shares carry any special rights with Remuneration Report (pages 73 to 90).
regard to control of the company and there are no restrictions on
The rules about the appointment and replacement of Directors are
voting rights. Major shareholders have the same voting rights per
contained in the company’s Articles of Association. The company’s
share as all other shareholders. There are no known arrangements
Articles must be approved by shareholders in accordance with the
under which financial rights are held by a person other than the
legislation in force from time to time.
holder of the shares and no known agreements on restrictions on
share transfers or on voting rights. The Articles provide that Directors may be appointed by an ordinary
resolution of the members or by a resolution of the Directors,
Shares acquired through GSK share schemes and plans rank
provided that, in the latter instance, a director appointed in this
equally with the other shares in issue and have no special rights.
way retires at the first AGM following his appointment.
The trustees of the company’s Employee Share Ownership Plan
(ESOP) trusts have waived their rights to dividends on shares held The Articles also provide that Directors should be subject to
by the ESOP trusts. re-election at the AGM at intervals of three years or annually if
they have held office for a continuous period of nine years or
Change of control and essential contracts
more. The company’s members may remove a director by passing
The company does not have contracts or other arrangements an ordinary resolution of which special notice has been given,
which individually are essential to the businesses nor is it party or by passing a special resolution. A Director may automatically
to any significant agreements that would take effect, alter or cease to be a Director if:
terminate upon a change of control following a takeover bid.
• he becomes bankrupt or compounds with his
The company does not have agreements with any Director or creditors generally
Officer that would provide compensation for loss of office or
• he ceases to be a Director by virtue of the Companies Acts or
employment resulting from a takeover, except that provisions of
the Articles
the company’s share plans may cause options and awards granted
under such plans to vest on a takeover. Details of the termination • he is suffering from mental ill health
provisions in the company’s framework contracts for Executive • he has missed Directors’ meetings for a continuous period of
Directors are given on page 81. six months without permission and the Board resolves that he
shall cease to be a Director
Interests in voting rights
• he is prohibited from being a Director by law
Other than as stated below, as far as the company is aware, there
are no persons with significant direct or indirect holdings in the • he resigns
company. Information provided to the company pursuant to the • he offers to resign and the Board accept that offer, or
Financial Services Authority’s (FSA) Disclosure and Transparency
• all other Directors (being at least three in number) require him
Rules (DTRs) is published on a Regulatory Information Service and
to resign.
on the company’s website.
At 19th February 2010, the company had received notifications
in accordance with the FSA’s DTRs of the following notifiable
interests, in the voting rights in the company’s issued share capital:
No . of Percentage of issued
shares capital (%)*
BlackRock, Inc. 334,849,249 6.45
Legal & General Group Plc 217,546,535 4.19
* Percentage of Ordinary Shares in issue, excluding Treasury shares as at
19th February 2010.
GSK Annual Report 200909P–45P
noitarenumer
dna
ecnanrevoG
64
Corporate governance
Articles of Association Notwithstanding the new policy, the company continues to support
The powers of the Directors are determined by UK legislation a GSK Political Action Committee (PAC) for employees in the USA
and the company’s Articles of Association, available on GSK’s which gives political donations. A PAC is an employee organisation
website. The Articles may be amended by a special resolution of which allows employees to contribute to a fund for political
the members. The Directors may exercise all the company’s powers donations. Employees decide upon the recipients of the PAC
provided that the Articles or applicable legislation do not stipulate donations. In 2009, a total of £540,551 (£539,359 in 2008) was
that any such powers must be exercised by the members. donated to political organisations by the GSK PAC.
The Directors have been authorised to issue and allot Ordinary
At the AGM in May 2001, shareholders first authorised the
Shares under current Article 10. The power under current Article
company to make donations to EU political organisations and to
10 and the authority for the company to make purchases of its
incur EU political expenditure, under the provisions of the Political
own shares are subject to shareholder authorities which are sought
Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000, of up to £100,000
on an annual basis at the AGM. Any shares purchased by the
each year. This authority has since been renewed annually. The law
company may be cancelled or held as Treasury shares.
requires companies to continue to obtain shareholder approval
Share buy-back programme before they can make donations to EU political organisations or
incur EU political expenditure. However, the company does not
A £12 billion programme of share repurchases commenced in
make and does not intend to make donations to political parties or
July 2007. Shares costing £6.2 billion have been repurchased
independent election candidates, nor does it make any donations under this programme. No repurchases were made during
to EU political organisations or incur EU political expenditure.
2009, and the company does not expect to make any significant
repurchases in 2010. The programme covered purchases by the The definitions of political donations, political expenditure and
company of shares for cancellation or to be held as Treasury political organisations used in the legislation are very wide.
shares, in accordance with the authority renewed by shareholders In particular, the definition of EU political organisations may
at the AGM in May 2009, when the company was authorised to extend to bodies such as those concerned with policy review, law
purchase a maximum of just under 519 million shares. Details of reform, the representation of the business community and special
shares purchased in prior years, those cancelled, and those held as interest groups such as those concerned with the environment,
Treasury shares are disclosed in Note 33 to the financial statements which the company and its subsidiaries might wish to support.
‘Share capital and share premium account’. As a result, the definitions may cover legitimate business activities
not in the ordinary sense considered to be political donations or
The exact amount and timing of any future purchases, and the
political expenditure. Such activities are not designed to support
extent to which repurchased shares will be held as Treasury shares
any political party or independent election candidate. The authority
rather than being cancelled, will be determined by the company
which the Board has sought annually is a precautionary measure to
and is dependent on market conditions and other factors.
ensure that the company and its subsidiaries do not inadvertently
Donations to political organisations and political breach the legislation.
expenditure
With effect from 1st January 2009, to ensure a consistent approach
to political contributions across the Group, GSK introduced a global
policy to stop voluntarily all political contributions.
2009 2008
Political donations to: £ £
EU political organisations – –
Non-EU political organisations
comprising:
USA – 319,000
Canada – 28,000
– 347,000
Prior to the introduction of the Group’s new approach to political
contributions, the USA was the largest recipient of political
donations. In line with US law, the corporate donations were
not made at a federal level, but only to candidates and political
parties at the state and local levels. In 2008, GSK supported
those candidates who sought an environment that appropriately
rewarded high-risk, high-investment industries.
The situation was similar in Canada, and in the Rest of the World
donations were very rare and of low value.
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
65
Corporate governance
Annual General Meeting Internal control framework
The Board recognises its responsibility to present a balanced and
The AGM will be held at 2.30pm on Thursday, 6th May 2010
understandable assessment of the Group’s position and prospects.
at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary,
Westminster, London SW1P 3EE. The business to be transacted The Board has accountability for reviewing and approving the
at the meeting will include: adequacy and effectiveness of internal controls operated by the
Group, including financial, operational and compliance controls
• Receiving and adopting GlaxoSmithKline’s 2009
and risk management. The Board has delegated responsibility
Annual Report
for such review to the Audit & Risk Committee, which receives
• Approving the 2009 Remuneration Report regular reporting aligned with GSK’s Assurance Programme. It is
The Remuneration Report on pages 73 to 90 sets out the the responsibility of management, through the CET, to implement
remuneration policies operated by GlaxoSmithKline and Board policies on risk and control. The CET is responsible for
disclosures on Directors’ remuneration, including those identifying, approving, monitoring and enforcing key policies that
required by the Companies Act 2006 and The Large and go to the heart of how the Group conducts business.
Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) The internal control framework includes central direction, resource
Regulations 2008. A resolution will be proposed to approve allocation and risk management of the key activities of research and
the Remuneration Report. development, manufacturing, marketing and sales, legal, human
resources, information systems and financial practice. As part of
• Retirement and re-election of Directors
this framework, there is a comprehensive planning system with
Dr Stephanie Burns, Mr Julian Heslop, Sir Deryck Maughan,
an annual budget approved by the Board. The results of operating
Dr Daniel Podolsky and Sir Robert Wilson will each retire and
units are reported monthly and compared with the budget.
offer themselves for re-election to the Board under current
Forecasts are prepared regularly during the year.
Article 85 of the company’s Articles of Association.
The Group also has in place established procedures to identify and
• Re-appointment and remuneration of auditors
consolidate reporting entities. The Group’s control activities include
Resolutions will be proposed to authorise the Audit & Risk
policies and practices covering appropriate authorisation and
Committee to re-appoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as
approval of transactions, application of financial reporting standards
auditors and to determine their remuneration.
and reviews of significant judgements and financial performance.
• S pecial business
Extensive financial, regulatory and operational controls, procedures
The company will seek authority to:
and risk activities are reviewed by the Group’s internal auditors.
• make donations to EU political organisations and incur
Responsibility, however, is clearly delegated to local business units,
EU political expenditure, each capped at £50,000
supported by a regional management structure. These principles
• allot Ordinary Shares in the company are designed to provide an environment of central leadership
• give the Directors authority to disapply pre-emption rights coupled with local operating autonomy as the framework for the
when allotting new shares in connection with rights issues exercise of accountability and control within the Group.
or otherwise up to a maximum of 5% of the current
The Group also attaches importance to clear principles and
issued share capital and purchase its own Ordinary Shares
procedures designed to achieve appropriate accountability and
up to a maximum of just under 10% of the current issued
control. A Group policy, ‘Risk Management and Legal Compliance’,
share capital
mandates that business units establish processes for managing and
• exempt the auditors from having to state the name of monitoring risks significant to their businesses and the Group.
their senior statutory auditor for the company in GSK’s
The internal control framework also relies on the following for
Annual Report
overseeing and reporting risk and compliance issues.
• reduce the notice required to call a general meeting to
not less than 14 clear days Risk Oversight and Compliance Council (ROCC)
The ROCC is a council of senior executives authorised by the Board
• amend the company’s Articles of Association in line with
to assist the Audit & Risk Committee oversee the risk management
the Companies Act 2006, the Shareholder Rights Directive
and internal control activities of the Group. Membership comprises
and to include a limit on annual fees paid to Directors.
several CET members and some of the heads of departments
Shareholders are entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend with internal control, risk management, assurance, audit and
the AGM and to speak and vote on their behalf provided that, compliance responsibilities.
in the event that a single shareholder appoints multiple proxies,
The ROCC meets on a regular basis to review and assess significant
each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a
risks and their mitigation plans and provide oversight of internal
different share or shares held by that member.
controls to ensure compliance with applicable laws, regulations and
Details on how to appoint or be appointed a corporate internal GSK policies. The ROCC, responding to the Group policy
representative or proxy can be found on page 200. The Notice of referred to above, has provided the business units with a framework
AGM will be published on the company’s website. for risk management and upward reporting of significant risks.
Mitigation planning and identification of a manager with overall
responsibility for management of any given risk is a requirement.
GSK Annual Report 200909P–45P
noitarenumer
dna
ecnanrevoG
66
Corporate governance
Risk Oversight
Audit
and
& Risk
Compliance
Committee
Council
Internal
Assurance
Business unit assertion audit
assessment
assessment
Independent
External audit/
Emerging Business Internal review of
Business regulatory Incidents/
risk control audit business unit
monitoring agency outcome events management infrastructure activity and internal
audit activity
GSK Risk Universe
Management Internal Assurance
audit
Risk Management and Compliance Boards (RMCBs) This new alignment of the global audit functions further
RMCBs have been established in each of the major business units. strengthens GSK’s governance model by affording the Internal
Membership often comprises members of the senior executive Audit group greater independence, reduces fragmentation among
team of the respective business unit, augmented by specialists global audit functions and provides a direct reporting line from
where appropriate. The RMCBs oversee management of all the Internal Audit group to GSK’s Company Secretary & Corporate
risks that are considered important for their respective business Compliance Officer and to the Chairman of the Audit & Risk
units, including those risks that are designated as significant to Committee to ensure significant issues are escalated in a timely
GlaxoSmithKline as a whole, thus increasing the number of risks manner. This has helped eliminate overlaps, gaps and potential for
that are actively managed across the Group. over/under auditing that existed in the previous structure.
Each business unit and corporate function must periodically review It also provides a clear platform for developing a common
the significant risks facing their businesses. This review should approach to the conduct of internal audits which helps ensure
include identifying operational risks, legal compliance risks and risks consistency and that audit activities are performed in the most
to the achievement of strategic goals and objectives. The review efficient and effective way.
must occur at least annually, should be embedded within, and
Assurance reporting
aligned with, the annual planning process to ensure that significant
Assurance reporting to the Audit & Risk Committee will follow a
risks are identified with changes in management direction and the
structured programme integrating reporting from business units,
external environment.
Assurance and Internal Audit.
Assurance
Business units and corporate functions are required to present
In 2009, an Assurance Programme was implemented to further
reports annually to the ROCC and Audit & Risk Committee that
enhance governance and provide an independent assessment
detail its risk management and compliance approach, providing a
of governance, risk management and control processes for the
balanced assessment of the status of internal controls over key risks,
organisation. Within GSK this comprises four main elements:
and highlighting any significant compliance issues. Management
Internal Audit must oversee risks that are considered important for their respective
business units, including those risks that are designated as significant
GSK’s Internal Audit group has responsibility for independently
to the Group. Information regarding the controls in place to manage
assessing the adequacy and effectiveness of the management
these risks will be provided to assure the Audit & Risk Committee
over significant risk areas and reporting it to the Audit & Risk
that these risks are adequately managed within the internal control
Committee in line with an agreed annual Assurance Plan.
framework.
GSK’s internal audit functions have undergone significant
transformation as the four global audit functions (Group Internal Internal Audit reports to the Audit & Risk Committee at the same
Audit, Manufacturing Internal Audit, R&D Internal Audit, and time as the business unit and provides an independent assessment of
Environment, Health, Safety and Sustainability Internal Audit) whether adequate controls are in place to manage significant risks.
have been consolidated into a single organisation under the
leadership of the Head of Audit and Assurance. The Head of Audit
and Assurance reports to GSK’s Company Secretary & Corporate
Compliance Officer with a separate reporting responsibility to the
Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee.
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
67
Corporate governance
When issues or control deficiencies are identified, Internal Audit There are areas of the Group’s business where it is necessary to
recommends processes for improvement. GSK managers develop take risks to achieve a satisfactory return for shareholders, such
corrective action plans to eliminate the causes of non-compliance as investment in R&D and in acquiring new products or businesses.
and address gaps in internal controls. Internal Audit tracks these In these cases, it is the Group’s objective to apply its expertise in
plans to completion and reports results to senior management and the prudent management rather than elimination of risk.
the Audit & Risk Committee. The Directors’ review relates to the company and its subsidiaries
and does not extend to material associated undertakings, joint
Significant compliance issues and internal audit results are escalated
ventures or other investments.
to the Audit & Risk Committee at the earliest opportunity.
The Board, through the Audit & Risk Committee, has reviewed
Risk management
the assessment of risks and the internal control framework that
The Group’s risk management programme extends beyond the
operates in GlaxoSmithKline and has considered the effectiveness
legal and regulatory issues and considers the Group’s overall
of the system of internal control in operation in the Group for the
strategy and changes in the external environment. Furthermore,
year covered by this report and up to the date of its approval by
risk management principles are embedded within management
the Board. The process followed by the Board in reviewing the
practices and are part of the business strategy and objectives
system of internal controls accords with the guidance on internal
setting process.
control issued by the Turnbull Committee.
For details of risks affecting the Group, see ‘Risk factors’ on pages 43
Committee reports
to 47 and Note 44 to the financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’.
Board Committees report regularly to the Board on the performance
Strategic Risk Evaluations (SREs) of the activities they have been assigned.
SREs are a new approach to delivering enterprise-wide assurance
Audit & Risk Committee Report
on significant issues facing GSK and are conducted by our
assurance teams in partnership with the business. The approach
is designed to evaluate areas where there is an incomplete
understanding of risk, and enable the development and
implementation of appropriate mitigation plans. Each SRE is
sponsored by a CET member or ‘risk owner’ with oversight for
each SRE provided by the ROCC.
Corporate Ethics & Compliance (CEC)
The ROCC is also supported by the CEC department, which is
responsible for supporting the development and implementation
of practices that facilitate employees’ compliance with laws
and Group policy. The department provides assistance to help
employees meet high ethical standards and comply with applicable
laws and regulations and corporate responsibility.
Tom de Swaan
The thrust of the Group’s compliance effort is due diligence in Audit & Risk Committee Chairman
preventing and detecting misconduct or non-compliance with law
or regulation by promoting ethical behaviour, compliance with Attendance at
full meetings
all laws and regulations, corporate responsibility at all levels and
Members Committee member since during 2009
effective compliance systems.
Mr T de Swaan 1st January 2006 6/6
The CEC department is managed by the Company Secretary & (Chairman from
Corporate Compliance Officer, who reports directly to the CEO. 1st September 2006)
The Company Secretary & Corporate Compliance Officer chairs
Professor Sir Roy 20th May 2009 2/3
the ROCC and provides summary reports on the ROCC’s activities
Anderson
and the Group’s significant risks to the CET and the Audit & Risk
Committee on a regular basis. The Corporate Compliance Officer’s Sir Deryck Maughan 21st January 2005 5/6
direct reporting line to the Audit & Risk Committee provides a Dr D Podolsky 1st January 2007 5/6
mechanism for bypassing the executive management should the
Sir Robert Wilson 12th December 2003 6/6
need ever arise.
Sir Ian Prosser* 27th December 2000 3/3
Effectiveness of controls
Dr R Schmitz* 27th December 2000 3/3
The internal control framework has been in operation for the
whole of the year under review and continues to operate up to the * Sir Ian Prosser and Dr Schmitz retired from the Board on 20th May 2009.
date of approval of this report. The system of internal controls is
In addition to the six scheduled meetings, the Committee also met
designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of not achieving
on a quorate basis on five occasions.
business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Audit & Risk Committee receives reports on areas of significant
risk to the Group and on related internal controls. Following
consideration of these reports and those received via the Assurance
framework, the Audit & Risk Committee reports annually to the
Board on the effectiveness of controls.
GSK Annual Report 200909P–45P
noitarenumer
dna
ecnanrevoG
68
Corporate governance
Other attendees at Committee meetings:
Financial & accounting experience
• CEO
Mr Tom de Swaan • Chief Financial Officer of ABN AMRO until
• CFO
31st December 2005
• Chairman • Determined by the Board to be the Audit
• General Counsel Committee Financial Expert, as defined by the
Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 (Sarbanes-Oxley)
• Head of Audit & Assurance
• Company Secretary & Corporate Compliance Officer
Sir Deryck Maughan • A Partner of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co.
• Head of Global Internal Audit, as appropriate
(KKR) and Chairman of KKR Japan
• External Auditors.
• Former Chairman & CEO of Citigroup
The Committee’s main responsibilities include: International and Vice Chairman of
Citigroup Inc.
• R eviewing the corporate accounting and financial reporting
• Former Chairman and Co-Chief Executive
process
Officer of Salomon Smith Barney
• Monitoring the integrity of the financial statements
• Former Chairman and Chief Executive
• E valuating the system of internal control and identifying and Officer of Salomon Brothers Inc.
managing risks, including in relation to the financial reporting
process and the preparation of consolidated accounts Sir Robert Wilson • Economist, and former Non-Executive
• O verseeing activities of each of the Group’s compliance Chairman of The Economist Group
and audit functions and overseeing compliance with laws, • Chairman of BG Group plc
regulations and ethical codes of practice. • Retired from Rio Tinto in 2003 where he held
Senior Management positions culminating in
The Committee’s oversight role requires it to address regularly the
his appointment as Executive Chairman
relationships between management and the internal and external
auditors and understand and monitor the reporting relationships
and tiers of accountability between them. Scientific expertise
The Committee receives regular reports from members of the Professor Sir Roy • A world renowned medical scientist with
CET and senior managers covering the key risk management and Anderson advanced knowledge of infectious disease
compliance activities of the Group, including those covering R&D, epidemiology
manufacturing, sales and marketing and corporate functions. • Professor of Infectious Disease Epidemiology
Further details of the reporting framework to the Committee are in the Faculty of Medicine, Imperial College,
set out on pages 65 to 67 ‘Internal control framework’. London
• Fellow of the Royal Society
In December 2009 the Committee’s terms of reference were
amended to reflect its role in overseeing the identification and • Foreign Associate Member of the Institute
management of risk under the new assurance-based audit of Medicine at the US National Academy
framework referred to on pages 66 to 67. At the same time of Sciences
the name of the Audit Committee was changed to the Audit • Foreign Associate Member of the French
& Risk Committee. Academy of Sciences
• Former Rector of Imperial College, London
Qualifications of Audit & Risk Committee Members
• Former Chief Scientific Adviser at the Ministry
Committee members, with the exception of Professor Sir Roy
of Defence in the UK
Anderson and Dr Podolsky, bring considerable financial and
accounting experience to the Committee’s work. Members have Dr Daniel Podolsky • A world renowned researcher with
past employment experience in either finance or accounting roles advanced knowledge of underlying
or comparable experience in corporate activities. Professor Sir mechanisms of disease and new therapies
Roy and Dr Podolsky’s backgrounds as world renowned medical for gastrointestinal disorders
scientists and researchers enable them to bring scientific expertise
• President of the University of Texas
to the Committee’s deliberations.
Southwestern Medical Centre and Professor
of Internal Medicine
• Member, Institute of Medical/National
Academy of Sciences
• Former Mallinckrodt Professor of Medicine,
Harvard Medical School
• Former Chief Academic Officer, Partners
Healthcare
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
69
Corporate governance
In 2009, the Committee worked to a structured programme of The Committee has primary responsibility for making a
activities, with standing items that the Committee is required to recommendation to shareholders on the appointment,
consider at each meeting together with other matters focused to re-appointment and removal of the external auditors by annually
coincide with key events of the annual financial reporting cycle: assessing the qualifications, expertise, resources and independence
of the external auditors and the effectiveness of the audit process.
External auditors reported on all critical accounting In evaluating the effectiveness of the audit process prior to making
policies, significant judgements and a recommendation on the re-appointment of the external auditors,
practices used by the Group, alternative the Committee reviews the effectiveness of their performance
accounting treatments which had been against criteria which it agrees, in conjunction with management,
discussed with management and their at the beginning of each year’s audit. As part of this process, the
resultant conclusion, material written Committee considers feedback on the prior year’s external audit
communications with management and gathered through a survey facilitated by the auditors’ client service
any restrictions on access to information review team, which is independent of the engagement team that
undertook the audit work. The survey seeks feedback from a
CFO reported on the financial performance of
number of sources, including certain members of the Board who
the company and on technical financial
were involved in the audit process and the financial management
and accounting matters
team at corporate and business unit level.
General Counsel reported on material litigation
Before agreeing the audit fee proposed by the external auditors
Company Secretary reported on corporate governance and the Committee considers cost comparisons to ensure that it is fair
& Corporate on the activities undertaken by the ROCC and appropriate for GSK. There are no contractual obligations that
Compliance Officer restrict the Committee’s capacity to recommend a particular firm
as external auditors to the Group. PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Heads of audit and the majority of the Heads of these groups
have remained in place as auditors since the Group’s inception in
assurance and the reported on their audit scope, annual
December 2000.
Group’s compliance coverage, audit resources and on the
and audit groups results of audits conducted throughout In making its assessment, the Committee considers papers which
the year detail the relevant UK legislative, regulatory and professional
requirements relating to external auditors and evaluates
Company Secretary, reported on matters that affected the
reports from the external auditors on their compliance with the
as Chairman of quality and timely disclosure of financial
requirements, on the safeguards that have been established and
the Disclosure and other material information to the
on their own internal quality control procedures. Consideration
Committee Board, to the public markets and
is also given by the Committee to the need to include the risk of
to shareholders. This enabled the
the withdrawal of the external auditors from the market in its risk Committee to review the clarity and
evaluation and planning.
completeness of the disclosures in the
published annual financial statements, Where the external auditors provide non-audit services, the
interim reports, quarterly and preliminary Committee ensures that auditor objectivity and independence
results announcements and other formal are safeguarded by a policy requiring pre-approval by the
announcements relating to financial Committee for such services. These services may include audit
performance prior to approval by services, audit-related services, tax services and other services.
the Board. Pre-approval is detailed as to the particular service or categories of
services, and is subject to a specific budget.
The Audit & Risk Committee, management, internal auditors and
The external auditors and management report regularly to the
the full Board work together to ensure the quality of the company’s
Committee regarding the extent of services provided in accordance
corporate accounting and financial reporting. The Committee
with this pre-approval and the fees for the services performed.
serves as the primary link between the Board and the external and
The Committee may also pre-approve additional services on a
internal auditors. This facilitates the necessary independence from
case-by-case basis. Expenditure on audit and non-audit services is
management and encourages the external and internal auditors to
set out in Note 9 to the financial statements, ‘Operating profit’.
communicate freely and regularly with the Committee. In 2009,
the Committee met both collectively and separately with the The guidelines set out in the company’s policy on engaging the
external auditors and the Head of Audit and Assurance, and the external auditors to provide non-audit services include ascertaining
Corporate Compliance Officer without members of management that: the skills and experience of the external auditors make them a
being present. suitable supplier of the non-audit services; adequate safeguards are
in place so that the objectivity and independence of the audit are
not threatened or compromised; and the fee levels relative to the
annual audit fee are within the limits set by the Committee.
The company also has well-established policies, including a Code of
Ethics, which is available on its website, and a help-line facility for
the reporting and investigation of unlawful conduct. No waivers to
the Code were made in 2009.
GSK Annual Report 200909P–45P
noitarenumer
dna
ecnanrevoG
70
Corporate governance
Nominations Committee Report The process continues into 2010, with the Committee placing
emphasis on candidates who are current CEOs or have financial
expertise. Professional search agencies are engaged specialising in
the recruitment of high calibre Non-Executive Directors. Dossiers of
potential Non-Executive appointees are provided to the Committee
and candidates are shortlisted for interview on merit and against
objective criteria after considering their relevant qualifications.
When appointing new Executive Directors or CET members,
the Committee considers the skills, knowledge and experience
required for the particular executive position. The Committee
will consider potential external and internal candidates before
recommending to the Board to approve the new appointment.
All new Directors offer themselves for election at the company’s
next AGM. Their appointments are announced publicly.
Ms Deirdre Connelly was appointed President, North America
Sir Christopher Gent
Pharmaceuticals on 9th February 2009 and also became a member
Nominations Committee Chairman
of the CET.
Attendance at
full meetings On the Committee’s recommendation, the Board approved the
Members Committee member since during 2009 following changes which took effect on the retirement of
Sir Ian Prosser and Dr Schmitz from the Board at the conclusion of
Sir Christopher Gent 9th December 2004 5/5
the AGM in May 2009: Sir Robert Wilson replaced Sir Ian as the
(Chairman from
SID, Sir Crispin Davis replaced Sir Robert as the Chairman of the
1st January 2005)
Remuneration Committee, Professor Sir Roy Anderson became a
Mr L Culp 28th March 2008 5/5
member of the Audit & Risk Committee, Mr de Swaan stepped
Sir Crispin Davis 9th July 2009 2/2 down from the Corporate Responsibility Committee and became
Sir Deryck Maughan 9th July 2009 2/2 a member of the Remuneration Committee, Mr Murdoch became
a member of the Corporate Responsibility Committee. In addition,
Sir Robert Wilson 28th March 2008 5/5
on the Committee’s recommendation, the Board approved the
Sir Ian Prosser* 27th December 2000 2/2 appointment of Sir Crispin and Sir Deryck Maughan as members
(Committee Chairman of the Nominations Committee with effect from 9th July 2009.
February-December 2003) The Committee also recommended and the Board approved the
appointment of Mr Murdoch as a member of the Remuneration
Dr R Schmitz* 17th May 2004 2/2
Committee with effect from 1st October 2009.
* Sir Ian Prosser and Dr Schmitz retired from the Board on 20th May 2009.
Remuneration Report
Other attendees at Committee meetings: The Remuneration Report can be found on pages 73 to 90.
• CEO
• Chief of Staff
• Head of HR
• Company Secretary
• where relevant, appropriate external advisers.
The Committee’s main responsibilities include proposing the
appointment of Board and Committee members.
During 2009, the Committee’s main focus was on the recruitment
of new Non-Executive Directors to refresh the Board and on the
appointment of a new Head of North American Pharmaceuticals.
When recruiting Non-Executive Directors, the Committee considers
the particular skills, knowledge and experience that would benefit
the Board most significantly for each appointment.
Broad selection criteria are used which focus on achieving a
balance between the representation of European, UK and US
markets, and having individuals with CEO experience and skills
developed in various sectors and specialities. During 2009,
particular focus was placed upon recruiting replacements for Sir Ian
Prosser and Dr Ronaldo Schmitz who retired at the AGM in 2009.
The Committee recommended the appointment of Mr James
Murdoch as a Non-Executive Director.
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
71
Corporate governance
Corporate Responsibility Committee Report During the year the Committee reviewed areas including:
• pandemic ‘flu, including access to vaccine and antiviral
medicine in developing countries
• access and pricing of medicines in developing countries
• R&D on diseases of the developing world and a patent pool
• community partnerships and investment
• humanitarian donations
• sales and marketing practices including harmonisation of GSK
Codes of Practice
• disclosure of payments to healthcare professionals
• communication of clinical trial results
• use of animals in research
• employment practices including diversity and inclusion
Sir Christopher Gent
Corporate Responsibility Committee Chairman • employee wellbeing
• employee relations including consultation arrangements and
Attendance at
employment litigation in the USA
full meetings
Members Committee member since during 2009 • supply chain management
Sir Christopher Gent 9th December 2004 5/5 • climate change, energy use reduction and
(Chairman from manufacturing efficiency
1st January 2005) • data privacy
Dr S Burns 6th December 2007 5/5 • corruption prevention.
Mr J Murdoch 20th May 2009 2/2
GSK publishes a comprehensive Corporate Responsibility Report
Dr D Podolsky 1st July 2006 4/5 which is available on the company’s website.
Sir Ian Prosser* 17th May 2004 2/3
The Combined Code
Mr T de Swaan* 1st July 2006 3/3 Throughout 2009, the company complied with the provisions and
applied the Main Principles of Section 1 of the Combined Code,
* Sir Ian Prosser retired from the Board on 20th May 2009 and Mr de
Swaan also ceased to be a member of the Committee on that date. except as regards an aspect of the following provision:
Other attendees at Committee meetings may include: • D.2.3 – The chairman should arrange for the chairmen of
the audit, remuneration and nomination committees to be
• CEO
available to answer questions at the AGM and for all directors
• General Counsel
to attend.
• H ead of Corporate Communications & Community
The entire Board was in attendance at the company’s AGM in
Partnerships
May 2009, save for Sir Deryck Maughan who was prevented
• Head of Corporate Responsibility from attending due to urgent business commitments which
• Company Secretary. arose shortly before the meeting. He therefore needed to
convey his apologies for absence.
To augment GSK’s engagement with stakeholder opinion, in March
2009 Ms Sophia Tickell was appointed as an independent external US law and regulation
adviser to the Committee. Ms Tickell is the Director of the Pharma
A number of provisions of US law and regulation apply to GSK
Futures Series which aims to align better societal and shareholder
because the company’s shares are quoted on the NYSE in the
value, and she chairs the International Advisory Group of the
form of ADS.
Medicines Transparency Alliance. Ms Tickell attends the meetings
of the Committee and advises the company in this capacity. NYSE rules
In general, the NYSE rules permit the company to follow UK
The main responsibilities of the Corporate Responsibility
corporate governance practices instead of those applied in the USA,
Committee are set out on page 61. The Committee has a rolling
provided that the company explains any significant variations. This
agenda and receives reports from the members of the CET and
explanation is contained in the company’s Form 20-F filing, which
senior managers to ensure that progress on meeting GSK’s
can be accessed from the Securities and Exchange Commission’s
Corporate Responsibility Principles is reviewed. Five Principles:
(SEC) EDGAR database or via the company’s website. NYSE rules
access to medicines; standards of ethical conduct; research
that came into effect in 2005 require the company to file annual and
and innovation; employment practices; and global community
interim written affirmations concerning the Audit & Risk Committee
partnerships are reviewed annually. Other Principles are discussed
and the company’s statement on significant differences in
at least once every two years. The Committee also reviews and
corporate governance.
approves the Corporate Responsibility Report.
GSK Annual Report 200909P–45P
noitarenumer
dna
ecnanrevoG
72
Corporate governance
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 • they have disclosed, based on their most recent evaluation
Following a number of corporate and accounting scandals in the of internal control over financial reporting, to the external
USA, Congress passed the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Sarbanes- auditors and the Audit & Risk Committee, all significant
Oxley is a wide ranging piece of legislation concerned largely with deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
financial reporting and corporate governance. operation of internal controls over financial reporting which
are reasonably likely to affect adversely the company’s ability
As recommended by the SEC, GSK has established a Disclosure
to record, process, summarise and report financial information,
Committee. The Committee reports to the CEO, the CFO and to
and any fraud (regardless of materiality) involving persons that
the Audit & Risk Committee. It is chaired by the Company Secretary
have a significant role in the company’s internal control over
and the members consist of senior managers from finance, legal,
financial reporting.
compliance, corporate communications and investor relations.
The Group has carried out an evaluation under the supervision
External legal counsel and the external auditors are invited to attend
and with the participation of the Group’s management, including
its meetings periodically. It has responsibility for considering the
the CEO and CFO, of the effectiveness of the design and
materiality of information and, on a timely basis, determining the
operation of the Group’s disclosure controls and procedures as
disclosure of that information. It has responsibility for the timely filing
at 31st December 2009.
of reports with the SEC and the formal review of the Annual Report
and Form 20-F. In 2009, the Committee met 6 times. There are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system
of disclosure controls and procedures, including the possibility of
Sarbanes-Oxley requires that the Annual Report contains a statement
human error and the circumvention or overriding of the controls
as to whether a member of the company’s Audit & Risk Committee
and procedures. Accordingly, even effective disclosure controls and
is an Audit Committee Financial Expert as defined by Sarbanes-Oxley.
procedures can only provide reasonable assurance of achieving
For a summary regarding the Board’s judgement on this matter, refer
their control objectives.
to page 68. Additional disclosure requirements arise under section
302 and section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley in respect of disclosure The CEO and CFO expect to complete these certifications
controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. and report their conclusions on the effectiveness of disclosure
controls and procedures on 1st March 2010, following which the
Section 302: Corporate responsibility for financial reports
certificates will be filed with the SEC as part of the Group’s
Sarbanes-Oxley also introduced a requirement for the CEO and the Form 20-F.
CFO to complete formal certifications, confirming that:
Section 404: Management’s annual report on internal
• they have each reviewed the Annual Report and Form 20-F control over financial reporting
• b ased on their knowledge, it contains no material In accordance with the requirements of section 404 of Sarbanes-
misstatements or omissions Oxley, the following report is provided by management in respect
• b ased on their knowledge, the financial statements and other of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting
financial information fairly present, in all material respects, the (as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the US Securities
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows as of the Exchange Act of 1934):
dates, and for the periods, presented in the Annual Report and
• Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining
Form 20-F
adequate internal control over financial reporting for the
• t hey are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure Group. Internal control over financial reporting is designed
controls and procedures that ensure that material information to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
is made known to them, and have evaluated the effectiveness financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements
of these controls and procedures as at the year-end, the results for external purposes in accordance with IFRS
of such evaluation being contained in the Annual Report and
• Management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness
Form 20-F
of internal control over financial reporting based on the
• t hey are responsible for establishing and maintaining internal framework in Internal Control – Integrated Framework
control over financial reporting that provides reasonable issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the Treadway Commission
the preparation of financial statements for external purposes
• There have been no changes in the Group’s internal control
in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles
over financial reporting during 2009 that have materially
• t hey have disclosed in the Annual Report and Form 20-F any affected, or are reasonably likely to affect materially, the
changes in internal controls over financial reporting during the Group’s internal control over financial reporting
period covered by the Annual Report and Form 20-F that have
• Management has assessed the effectiveness of internal control
materially affected, or are reasonably likely to affect materially,
over financial reporting, as at 31st December 2009 and its
the company’s internal control over financial reporting
conclusion will be filed as part of the Group’s Form 20-F
• PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, which has audited the
consolidated financial statements of the Group for the
year ended 31st December 2009, has also assessed the
effectiveness of the Group’s internal control over financial
reporting under Auditing Standard No. 5 of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).
Their audit report will be filed with the Group’s Form 20-F.
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
73
Remuneration Report
Sir Crispin Davis
Remuneration Committee Chairman
Dear Shareholder
As the new Chairman of GSK’s Remuneration Committee I am pleased to present the Committee’s Remuneration Report for 2009 for
which we will be seeking approval from shareholders at our AGM in May.
As you know, we made some important changes to GSK’s remuneration policy for our UK Executive Directors last year to deliver
appropriately structured pay through alignment with the market and GSK’s key strategic priorities. There was a high level of shareholder
engagement in relation to these changes, and we were pleased to receive such a strong vote in favour of last year’s Remuneration Report
at the AGM.
Senior management alignment and competitiveness
Since then, we have made further progress in simplifying and aligning the remuneration structures across the Corporate Executive
Team (CET). As a result of this, primary pay benchmarks will be based on the nature of each individual role rather than the industry
benchmark previously used. Share options will normally no longer be granted; instead, CET members will receive Performance Share
Plan awards, and will also be eligible to participate in GSK’s Deferred Annual Bonus Plan. There will also be a more standardised pay
mix across CET roles below the Executive Directors.
The Committee would not want to reward failure and so considers that severance terms should be more limited. We have therefore
determined that the contracts of any new CET appointees would normally include severance terms of one year’s base salary only, with
no bonus entitlement. In addition, I am pleased to report that the CEO has agreed to remove his contractual entitlement to bonus in the
event of termination of his employment and also to note the increase in his holding of GSK shares.
Strategic alignment
The introduction of a second performance measure in the Performance Share Plan has provided a clear focus on cash generation in the
business. We are continuing to develop measures that further align our remuneration with the ongoing work to transform GSK. Given
the importance of long term organic growth and R&D productivity to the future of GSK, we are assessing the most meaningful ways of
measuring success in these areas so that they may be considered as performance measures for future awards.
Good governance
There have been a number of corporate governance developments in the past year in response to the economic turmoil, with more likely
to come in 2010.
When we reviewed our arrangements last year we wanted to ensure that we did not motivate excessive risk taking. We introduced a
new Deferred Annual Bonus Plan, and were one of the first companies to introduce a ‘clawback’ mechanism for annual bonuses should
problems arise in the years after a bonus award has been made. We continue to monitor best practice governance developments, and
commit to regular reviews of our remuneration arrangements to ensure that they continue to encourage the right behaviours from our
leadership team.
The following report provides further detail on GSK’s current remuneration arrangements including the changes made and those to be
implemented. The Committee believes that these changes support the future of the business and are in the best interests of shareholders.
Sir Crispin Davis
Remuneration Committee Chairman
24th February 2010
GSK Annual Report 200909P–45P
noitarenumer
dna
ecnanrevoG
74
Remuneration Report
The Remuneration Committee Two quorate meetings were held during the year to approve the
Role of the Committee formal grant of long-term incentive (LTI) awards in accordance with
GSK’s remuneration policy.
The role of the Committee is to set the company’s remuneration
policy for Executive Directors and CET members (together the With the exception of Mrs Whyte (Deputy Company Secretary and
Executives), ensuring that it is consistent with the company’s Secretary to the Committee), no employees of the company were
scale and scope of operations, supports the business strategy and involved in the conduct of Committee meetings. Mr Witty (CEO),
growth plans and helps drive the creation of shareholder value. Mr Heslop (CFO), Mr Bicknell (Senior Vice President, Company
In setting remuneration policy and levels for the most senior Secretary & Corporate Compliance Officer), Mr Phelan (Chief of
executives, the Committee gives consideration to remuneration Staff), Ms Thomas (Senior Vice President, Human Resources) and
policy and levels for the wider employee population. Mr Powley (Senior Vice President, Corporate Compensation) were
invited to attend part of some meetings of the Committee as
Terms of reference
required. They do not attend where their individual remuneration
The Committee’s full terms of reference, which conform with the
is discussed and no director is involved in deciding his own
requirements of the Combined Code, are available on the company’s
remuneration.
website or can be obtained from the Company Secretary.
The Committee has access to external advice as required. Deloitte
Governance
LLP has been appointed by the Committee to provide it with
The Board considers all of the members of the Committee to
independent advice on executive remuneration. During the year,
be independent Non-Executive Directors, in accordance with
Deloitte LLP provided independent commentary on matters under
the Combined Code, with the exception of the Chairman of
consideration by the Committee, and provided updates on best
the company, Sir Christopher Gent, who was independent on
practice, legislative requirements and market practice.
appointment to the company.
Deloitte LLP also provided other tax and consulting services to
The Committee met 6 times during 2009, with each member
GSK during the year, but did not provide advice on executive
attending as follows:
remuneration matters other than for the Committee. Towers
Number of Number of Watson provided additional market data to the Committee.
meetings meetings
held in attended in
Commitment to shareholders Committee member 2009 whilst 2009 whilst
Members
since a member a member The Committee engages in regular dialogue with shareholders
Sir Crispin Davis 1st July 2003 6 6 and holds an annual meeting with GSK’s largest investors to
(Chairman from discuss and take feedback on its remuneration policy and any
20th May 2009) key developments during the year. In particular, the Committee
discusses any significant changes to the policy or the measures
Sir Robert Wilson 1st January 2004 6 6
used to assess performance.
(Chairman from 17th May
2004 to 20th May 2009) Summary of policy
As a result of the remuneration review in 2008, changes were
Mr L Culp 1st January 2004 6 5
made to the remuneration packages of the CEO and the CFO
Sir Christopher Gent 1st January 2007 6 6
for 2009.
Mr J Murdoch 1st October 2009 1 1
The remuneration structure of all CET members (including the
Mr T de Swaan* 20th May 2009 4 4
Chairman, Research & Development) has now been harmonised
Dr Ronaldo Schmitz** 25th May 2005 2 2 with that of the CEO and CFO. As a result of this, with effect
from 2010, share options will normally no longer be granted to
* Mr de Swaan is also the Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee. any CET members. Instead, CET members will receive additional
** Dr Schmitz retired from the Board on 20th May 2009 having been a performance share awards, and will also be eligible to participate
member of the Committee prior to that date. in GSK’s Deferred Annual Bonus Plan.
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
75
Remuneration Report
Key elements of remuneration
Policy for 2010 onwards
Salary • Salary levels reviewed annually influenced by the Executive’s role and experience. Benchmarked against
relevant comparator group(s)
Annual bonus • The majority of bonus is based on the achievement of financial targets (based on Group profit before
interest and tax, and on business unit operating profit)
• Individual performance against pre-determined personal objectives is also taken into account in
determining individual bonus payments
• There are R&D specific key performance indicators for R&D employees
• Achievement of additional operational efficiency goals will also be taken into account in determining the
annual bonuses in respect of 2009 and 2010
• No individual, including the CEO, will have a maximum bonus opportunity of more than 200% of salary
• The Committee reviews the ongoing financial impact of any prior year activities and an Executive’s role in
them and may make appropriate adjustments to individual bonus awards to reflect the circumstances
Deferred • Individuals may elect to defer up to 50% of any bonus earned
Annual • In respect of 2009, only the CEO and CFO were eligible to participate
Bonus Plan • From 2010, all Executives may participate
• Deferred bonuses may be matched up to one-for-one subject to relative Total Shareholder Return (TSR)
performance over three years (TSR vesting as for PSP)
Performance • 60% • Vesting based on relative TSR using a comparator group currently comprising 10 other pharmaceutical
Share companies
Plan (PSP) • Half of TSR component is measured over three years and half over four years
• 30% vesting at median, with 100% vesting for upper quartile performance
• Twelve-month averaging period for TSR
• 40% • Vesting based on adjusted free cash flow measured over three years
• 25% vesting at threshold, rising to 100% for stretching performance exceeding the set threshold by a
specified margin
• The operating maximum face value of annual performance share awards is as follows: 500% of salary for
the CEO and Chairman, Research & Development and 400% for the CFO
Share Option • Options no longer normally to be granted to any Executives
Plan
Pension • For UK Executives, defined contribution plan and legacy final salary plans (closed to new entrants since
2001). Executives participating in the defined contribution plan benefit from a company contribution of
20% of base salary, plus a matched contribution of 5% of base salary
• For US Executives, GSK operates a US Cash Balance Plan, and Executives benefit from contributions of up
to 38% of salary
GSK Annual Report 200909P–45P
noitarenumer
dna
ecnanrevoG
76
Remuneration Report
Total remuneration benchmarking
1 CEO
The Committee reviews GSK’s total remuneration against
comparable companies on a regular basis, to ensure that 1 Salary
remuneration arrangements are structured appropriately to deliver 2 Cash bonus
value for money for shareholders over the longer term and are 4 2 3 Deferred bonus including match
competitive. The relevant comparator group(s) are now determined 4 Performance shares
for each individual Executive.
For benchmarking purposes, total remuneration incorporates base
3
salary, bonus and LTIs. When setting pay, the Committee also
considers pension arrangements. CFO
1
UK cross-industry comparator group Global pharmaceutical comparator group*
1 Salary
AngloAmerican France Sanofi-Aventis
2 Cash bonus
AstraZeneca Switzerland Novartis
4 3 Deferred bonus including match
Barclays Roche Holdings
2 4 Performance shares
BG Group UK AstraZeneca
BHP Billiton USA Abbott Laboratories
BP Amgen** 3
British American Tobacco Bristol-Myers Squibb
1 Chairman, R&D
Diageo Eli Lilly
HSBC Johnson & Johnson
1 Salary
Reckitt Benckiser Merck
2 Cash bonus
Royal Dutch Shell Pfizer
Rio Tinto 2 3 Deferred bonus including match
4 4 Performance shares Standard Chartered
Tesco
3
Unilever
Vodafone
For 2010, the Committee considered the current economic
* Revised to reflect the de-listing of Schering-Plough and Wyeth during 2009
(see page 88) conditions and the new GSK harmonised pay philosophy.
** Amgen is included for benchmarking but as of 2009 is not in the current Accordingly, it agreed with the CEO and CFO that their pay would
TSR comparator group. be held at 2009 levels. As part of the alignment of pay structures
across the CET, Dr Slaoui’s base salary will be adjusted to reflect the
Individual elements of remuneration
new balance and also the market rate of pay for his responsibilities.
The balance between the fixed (base salary) and variable (annual The table immediately following sets out current base salaries and
bonus and LTI) elements of remuneration varies depending on those proposed for 2010.
performance. The charts to the right show the anticipated mix
Salary increases typically take effect from 1st April each year.
between fixed and variable pay on an expected value basis under
the new remuneration policy. The actual mix may be higher or
2009 base Effective date for 2010 base Effective date for %
lower, depending on the performance of GSK and the individual.
salary 2009 salary salary 2010 salary change
Typically, a significant portion (approximately 75% – 85%) of an
Mr Witty £1,000,000 1st April 2009 £1,000,0001st April 2010 0
Executive Director’s package is variable.
Mr Heslop £525,000 1st April 2009 £525,0001st April 2010 0
Base salary Dr Slaoui $875,000 1st April 2009 $975,0001st April 2010 11.43
Base salaries are set by reference to the relevant comparator group
at a level considered appropriate to secure the talent needed to
deliver GSK’s strategic priorities.
Until 2008, GSK’s remuneration policy was based on the principle
of achieving competitiveness with the global pharmaceutical
industry, which was the primary pay comparator. The Committee
now decides on an individual Executive basis whether the primary
pay comparator should be the global pharmaceutical sector, the
UK-based large cross-industry multinationals and/or some other
comparator group(s).
Primary Comparator Group UK cross-industry Global pharmaceutical
Mr Witty, CEO ✓
Mr Heslop, CFO ✓
Dr Slaoui, Chairman, R&D ✓
Salary levels are reviewed annually and are influenced by the
Executive’s role, experience and the pay environment.
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
77
Remuneration Report
Annual bonus Bonus targets for the CEO are set by the Board. In setting the
objectives for the CEO, the Board focuses on the strategies that
The annual bonus is designed to drive the achievement of
have been developed for the company, which are set out on pages
GSK’s annual financial and strategic business targets as well
as personal objectives.
4 to 7 of the Annual Report. For reasons of commercial sensitivity,
the specific objectives are kept confidential. Following the end
For 2010 the on-target bonus for the Executive Directors is given in of the financial year, the Board reviews the CEO’s performance
the table below. generally and against the set objectives, and the Committee then
determines the bonus payable.
On-target bonus as a % of base salary
CEO 125% For the other Executives, the CEO makes recommendations to
CFO 80% the Committee regarding performance against their objectives.
Chairman, R&D 85% These recommendations are considered by the Committee when
determining the level of bonuses payable.
Maximum bonuses are set by reference to individual on-target
Each year, the Committee reviews the ongoing financial impact of
bonus levels. There is a cap on bonus payments of 200% of
any prior year activities and the role of individual Executives in such
salary. That cap remains unchanged for 2010. Annual bonus is
activities, and the Committee may make appropriate adjustments
not pensionable.
to individual bonus awards to reflect those circumstances. The
Last year, the Committee revised the annual bonus plan to Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee is a member of the
strengthen the alignment to the new business strategy (details of Committee and provides input on the Audit & Risk Committee’s
which are set out in pages 4 to 7) and budgeting process. review of the Group’s performance. No such adjustments were
made in respect of bonuses for 2009.
Bonus measures for R&D employees, including Dr Slaoui, are linked
Group profit
before interest to the pipeline. A robust governance structure has been established
& tax to ensure that the bonus payable fairly reflects R&D productivity
and performance as well as performance against profit targets. This
Stretching
process requires the review of progress against targets by the R&D
financial
Bonus Compensation Review Committee which includes the CEO
Annual targets
Business unit and the company’s two Non-Executive Directors who are designated
Bonus
operating profit as Scientific Experts, Professor Sir Roy Anderson and Dr Podolsky. The
targets Committee reviewed the plan operation during the year and decided
that it should continue as the annual bonus for R&D. The Committee
will continue to keep its operation under review and may in future
consider extending it to other Executives including the CEO.
Individual objectives 2009 bonus awards
The objectives set for the company for 2009 focused in particular
on the continued development and launch of late stage pipeline
assets, delivery of commercial targets and execution of restructuring
The majority of the annual bonus opportunity is based on a formal
programmes to simplify the operating model.
review of performance against stretching financial targets based
on Group profit before interest and tax and business unit operating The Committee took into account GSK’s success in achieving the
profit targets, with the remainder being based on achievements above objectives, as well as each individual’s performance, when
against specific individual objectives. Annual bonuses are calibrated determining the bonus awards for 2009. Actual bonus payments
to reflect the stretching targets which have been established to for Executive Directors are shown on page 83 and ranged from
drive significant changes to GSK’s business model. The bonus 115% to 200% of base salaries as at 31st December 2009.
threshold will be 90% of target with the maximum being payable
The bonuses set by the Committee reflect GSK’s increased sales,
for achievement of 110% of target. The bonus threshold of 90%
profit and cash flow performance during the year, in challenging
reflects the stretching nature of the bonus targets.
market conditions, and with significant loss of sales to generics in the
USA. It also includes the achievement of key strategic and individual
objectives, including:
• delivering continued growth of the vaccine portfolio
• further geographic diversification, particularly within
emerging markets and consumer healthcare
• achieving key milestones in the transformation of R&D
productivity, particularly in relation to the late stage R&D
pipeline products
• simplification of GSK’s business model and achievement of
operational efficiencies.
GSK Annual Report 200909P–45P
noitarenumer
dna
ecnanrevoG
78
Remuneration Report
Deferred annual bonus plan a) Performance shares
A new Deferred Annual Bonus Plan was introduced in The Performance Share Plan ensures focus on GSK’s
2009 to encourage long-term shareholding, to discourage long-term shareholder returns relative to other
excessive risk taking and to help drive long-term shareholder pharmaceutical companies and on the delivery of GSK’s
returns relative to other global pharmaceutical companies. strategic priorities.
Eligibility for the 2009 bonus year was restricted to the CEO and Under the plan, measurement of performance has been broadened
CFO, but all CET members will be invited to participate from the so that the most senior team is incentivised against operational
2010 bonus year onwards, as part of the simplification of the CET measures aligned with GSK’s business strategy as well as TSR.
remuneration structure. TSR remains an appropriate comparative measure since it focuses
on the return to shareholders, is a well-understood and tested
Up to 50% of any annual bonus earned may be deferred for three
mechanism to measure performance and allows comparison
years. The company will match shares up to one-for-one depending
between companies operating in different countries. Therefore,
on the company’s relative TSR over this period. The performance
typically a proportion of any award made to Executives will
measure and vesting schedule will be consistent with the three-year
continue to be subject to relative TSR. The balance will be based on
TSR component of the Performance Share Plan described below.
strategic or operational measures to support our business strategy.
The CEO has elected to participate in GSK’s Deferred Annual Bonus For 2009 and 2010 the emphasis has and will be on working
plan in respect of his bonus for 2009. As a result, 15% of the capital and cash management.
CEO’s bonus has been deferred into 24,291 shares in the company,
There will be no retesting of performance.
and a matching award of the same number of shares has been
made which may vest in February 2013 subject to the company’s 2010 Awards
relative TSR performance and his continued employment. Performance share awards to Executives for 2010 were made in
February 2010.
Dividend equivalents will accrue and be delivered in respect of any
deferred shares and matching shares that vest. • TSR measure
For awards made in 2010, 60% of the award will be based on Long-term incentive plans
relative TSR using a comparator group currently comprising 10
New LTI plans were approved by shareholders at the 2009 AGM.
other global pharmaceutical companies. For this TSR element, the
To provide better alignment to UK market practice, in 2009 the percentage vesting at median is 30%, with full vesting for upper
CEO and the CFO did not receive share option grants. Instead, quartile TSR performance. The graph below shows the TSR vesting
their LTIs were only in the form of performance shares. They also schedule for awards granted in 2010.
had the opportunity to defer part of any bonus earned into shares,
Proportion vesting
and as outlined above, to be eligible to receive matching shares
subject to the achievement of additional performance conditions. 100%
The Chairman, Research & Development continued to receive share 100%
options in 2009, and was not eligible to participate in the new
deferred annual bonus arrangement. However, from 2010 onwards 80%
75%
the remuneration arrangements of all CET members (including the
Chairman, Research & Development) have been aligned with those
of the CEO and CFO. As a result, share options will normally no
longer be granted. Instead, CET members will receive performance 50% 55%
share awards.
Under the new LTI plans, the Committee may reduce the grant
or vesting levels if it determines that a participant has engaged in 25% 30%
conduct which is contrary to the legitimate expectations of the
company for an employee in the participant’s position.
Typically, awards are delivered to US resident executives in the 0%
form of ADS. Awards are delivered in the form of Ordinary Shares 11 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
to executives resident in the UK and other countries. All awards TSR rank position
are made under plans which incorporate dilution limits consistent
with the guidelines provided by the Association of British Insurers. To provide a focus on sustained longer-term performance, the
Current estimated dilution from existing awards under all GSK performance period was extended for all awards made from 2009
employee share schemes made since the merger is approximately so that half of the TSR element of each award will be measured
6.4% of the company’s share capital at 31st December 2009. over three years and half over four years.
The LTI plans are summarised in the relevant sections below To measure performance on a stable basis and to reflect better the
together with the basis on which awards will be made to the long-term nature of the pharmaceutical industry, the TSR averaging
Executives in 2010. period is twelve months for awards made from 2009 onwards.
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
79
Remuneration Report
• Ensures focus on
60% of award based
the return to
on Relative TSR
Up to 30% available shareholders
2010 against other at end of year 3
global pharmaceutical • Phasing drives
PSP companies sustained longer
Award term performance
(paid in shares;
amount varies based
on performance)
40% of award
based on Adjusted
Free Cash Flow
• Adjusted free cash flow measure Vesting of 2007 Awards
To recognise the importance of effective working capital and The Committee reviewed performance of the performance share
cash management, the remaining 40% will vest subject to the awards granted to the Executive Directors in February 2007, with
achievement of adjusted free cash flow targets. The target may the three-year performance period starting on 1st January 2007
be adjusted for material factors which could distort free cash flow and ending on 31st December 2009. The company ranked at the
as a performance measure. These will typically include exchange median of the revised comparator group and therefore 35% of
rate movements and may also include legal and major taxation the awards vested. The awards made to other senior executives in
settlements and special pension contributions, which could 2007 were dependent in part on TSR performance and in part on
materially distort this calculation. The impact of any acquisition EPS performance. The EPS portion of those awards did not vest.
or divestment will be quantified and adjusted for after the
The vesting tables for recent performance share awards together
event. Major adjustments in the calculation will be disclosed to
with share option awards are shown on page 80.
shareholders. For the awards in 2010, the targets are:
b) Share options
Adjusted free cash flow targets % vesting
As part of the remuneration review undertaken in 2008, it
Threshold vesting £17.3 billion 25%
was decided that share options would no longer be granted to
£17.8 billion 50%
the CEO and CFO, to align their packages better with the UK
£19.6 billion 75%
market. As outlined above, it has since been decided to simplify
Maximum vesting £20.5 billion 100%
the remuneration structure for all CET members, and so share
options will normally no longer be granted to CET members from
Between the above points, vesting will be calculated on a straight-
2010 onwards. line basis. The element based on adjusted free cash flow will be
measured over three years. Details of subsisting options, and the performance conditions
attached to each grant, are provided in the audited section of
• Award values
this report.
There is an individual award limit on the maximum initial value of
performance shares that may be granted to an individual in any Vesting of 2007 Awards
one year. Other than in exceptional circumstances, the maximum The performance conditions for the share option awards granted in
face value of performance shares that may be granted to an 2007 were not met and, as a result, these awards lapsed.
individual in any one year will be six times salary. The value of
c) Historical vesting for GSK’s LTIs
performance share awards granted to the Executive Directors in
2010 is shown in the table below: GSK’s LTI performance conditions continue to be challenging as is
demonstrated by the table on page 80. TSR has been an important
% of base 2010
salary Award part of the LTI measures for many years. This measure has been
retained under the current policy.
CEO 500% 415,454 Shares
CFO 400% 174,491 Shares
Chairman, R&D 500%* 130,627 ADS
* Adjusted from 2009 to reflect removal of share options.
To provide a closer link between shareholder returns and payments
to the Executives, notional dividends are reinvested and paid out
in proportion to the vesting of the award. The value of reinvested
dividends is incorporated into the benchmarking of award levels.
GSK Annual Report 2009
Year
1
Year
2
Year
3
Year
4
Up to 30% available
at end of year 4
Recognises the
importance of
Up to 40% available
effective working
at end of year 3
capital management
and cash09P–45P
noitarenumer
dna
ecnanrevoG
80
Remuneration Report
The following table shows the vesting levels of GSK’s performance b) US pension arrangements
share and share option awards to Executives since the In the USA, GSK operates a US Cash Balance Plan which provides
remuneration review during 2003. A TSR vesting percentage of 0% for an annual contribution and interest on the sum accumulated in
indicates that GSK’s TSR performance was below the median of the the cash balance plan but with no contractual promise to provide
comparator group for that performance period. specific levels of retirement income. The plan incorporates an
Performance Share Share Option Executive Pension Credit for senior US executives. Contribution
Plan Plan rates under the plan range from 15% to 38% of base salary
Vesting Vesting depending on grade. All current senior US executives are eligible
under TSR under EPS
Performance period measure % measure % for the Executive Pension Credit.
2003 01/01/04 – 31/12/06 0 100 For capped employees in the USA, benefits above the cap are
2004 01/01/05 – 31/12/07 38.47 100 provided through an unfunded non-qualified plan.
2006 01/01/06 – 31/12/08 0 50.7
Share ownership requirements
2007 01/01/07 – 31/12/09 35 0
To align the interests of Executives with those of
Average annual vesting 18.37 62.67
shareholders, Executives are required to build up and
maintain significant holdings of shares in GSK over time.
No award was made during 2005 due to a change in the award
cycle. Current share ownership requirements (SOR) are set out in the
table below:
Pensions
Share Ownership Requirement
Pensions provide an important tool for creating a long-term
CEO 4 x base salary
culture and loyalty.
Executive Directors 3 x base salary
The Executives participate in GSK senior executive pension plans. CET members 2 x base salary
The pension arrangements are structured in accordance with the
During the year, Mr Witty has been building up his shareholding
plans operated for Executives in the country in which they are
by actively purchasing shares in the market. He has spent a total
likely to retire. Details of individual arrangements for the Executive
of £300,000 of after tax earnings since the publication of the last
Directors are set out on page 89.
Annual Report to help build towards his SOR, in addition to the
New Executives to GSK will be eligible for either a defined acquisition of shares through dividend reinvestment. He has also
contribution scheme or a cash balance plan. Existing obligations elected to participate in GSK’s Deferred Annual Bonus plan in
under defined benefit schemes in the UK will continue to be respect of £300,000 (15%) of his 2009 pre-tax bonus. The resultant
honoured. award of 24,291 deferred shares is included in Mr Witty’s SOR in
the table below.
a) UK pension arrangements
The company currently operates a defined contribution plan, Shareholdings for the purpose of SOR as at 24th February 2010
and legacy final salary plans which are closed to new entrants. were:
Newly hired Executives in the UK will participate in the defined Holding for Holding for
contribution plan. SOR purposes SOR purposes % increase in
(as at 31/12/08) (as at 24/02/10) shareholding
During 2009 the UK Government announced a series of changes Mr Witty 73,753 144,879 96
to pensions, which will impact the pensions of approximately Ordinary shares Ordinary shares
600 executives in GSK. The proposed pension legislation (if
Mr Heslop 47,750 74,250 55
implemented in full) could have significant negative consequences
Ordinary shares Ordinary shares
for UK executives and the effectiveness of pensions will be
Dr Slaoui 49,799 95,836 92
significantly reduced. Pensions have been and continue to be an
Ordinary shares Ordinary shares
important tool for creating a long-term culture and promoting
employee retention, and therefore GSK is keeping the situation
Executives are required to continue to satisfy these shareholding
under active review.
requirements for a minimum of twelve months following
Executives participating in the defined contribution plan receive retirement from the company to support the long-term nature of
a company contribution of 15%–20% of base salary depending the business.
on grade. They will also have the opportunity to receive up to a
Other remuneration elements
further 5% in matched contributions in line with the policy for all
The Executives participate in various all-employee share plans in
other members of the pension plan.
either the UK or the USA.
The legacy final salary plans provide for up to two-thirds of final
The ShareSave plan and the ShareReward plan are UK HM
salary at age 60. For employees subject to the cap, benefits
Revenue & Customs approved plans open to all UK employees on
in excess of the cap are currently provided through unfunded
the same terms.
arrangements. Under the legacy final salary plans, actuarial
reduction factors apply where a participant leaves employment of Mr Witty and Mr Heslop are members of the ShareSave plan.
his/her own accord before the age of 60. Mr Witty and Mr Heslop contribute £250 a month into the plan.
This provides them with the option to buy shares at the end of the
If employment is terminated by the company other than for cause
three-year savings period in line with the opportunity available to
then, in the same way as for all other members of the legacy final
all UK employees.
salary plans, the reduction factors will not apply.
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
81
Remuneration Report
Mr Witty and Mr Heslop also contribute £125 per month to buy • in the case of outstanding awards under the GlaxoSmithKline
shares under the ShareReward plan. The company matches the Annual Investment Plan (which was closed to new deferrals
number of shares bought each month. with effect from the first quarter of 2006) provided that their
agreement is terminated other than for cause, any deferred
The Executives also receive other benefits including healthcare
amount, and any income and gains, are automatically
(medical and dental), personal financial advice and life assurance.
distributed as soon as administratively practicable after
The cash value of the benefits received by the Executive Directors
termination.
in 2009 is shown on page 83.
• in line with the policy applicable to US senior executives,
Executive Director terms and conditions
Dr Slaoui may become eligible, at a future date, to receive
Executive Director contracts continuing medical and dental insurance after retirement.
The policy set out below provides the framework for contracts for
Following the merger, those participants in the legacy share option
Executive Directors.
schemes who elected to exchange their legacy options for options
over GlaxoSmithKline shares will receive an additional cash
Notice period on 12 calendar months
benefit equal to 10% of the grant price of the original option.
termination by the
This additional benefit is triggered when the option is exercised or
employing company or
lapses. To qualify for this additional cash benefit, participants had
executive
to retain their options until at least the second anniversary of the
Termination payment 1 x annual salary effective date of the merger.
1 x annual on-target bonus*
Outside appointments for Executive Directors
No mitigation required**
Any outside appointments must be approved by the Chairman on
Vesting of LTIs Rules of relevant incentive plan, as behalf of the Board. It is the company’s policy that remuneration
approved by shareholders earned from such appointments may be kept by the individual
Executive Director.
Pension Based on existing arrangements and
terms of the relevant pension plan Non-Executive Director terms and conditions
Non-Executive Directors of GlaxoSmithKline do not have service
Non-compete clause 12 months from termination
contracts but instead have letters of appointment under which it
notice date**
is agreed that they serve the company as a Non-Executive Director
* The CEO has agreed an amendment to his contract to remove a contractual until the conclusion of the AGM following the third anniversary of
entitlement to bonus as part of his termination package. The contracts of their appointment. In each case this can be extended for a further
new Executives will not normally include a bonus element in any termination term of three years by mutual agreement. No Directors serve a
payment. However, to the extent that the company imposes non-compete term longer than three years without offering themselves for
provisions and restricts the individual from working elsewhere, a compensatory
re-election by the shareholders.
payment may be made.
Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to compensation if their
** The ability to impose a 12-month non-compete period (and a non-solicitation
restriction) on an Executive is considered important by the company in order appointment is terminated.
to have the ability to protect the Group’s intellectual property and staff. In light
The following table shows the date of the initial letter of
of this, the Committee believes that it would not be appropriate to provide for
appointment of each Non-Executive Director:
mitigation in the contracts.
The following table sets out the details of the Executive Directors’ Non-Executive Director Date of letter of appointment
service contracts:
Professor Sir Roy Anderson 28.09.07
Current Directors Date of contract Effective date Expiry date Dr S Burns 12.02.07
Mr L Culp 09.06.03
Mr A Witty* 18.06.08 22.05.08 31.08.24
Sir Crispin Davis 09.06.03
Mr J Heslop 16.03.05 01.04.05 31.01.14
Sir Deryck Maughan 26.05.04
Dr M Slaoui 16.05.06 01.06.06 01.08.19
Mr J Murdoch 26.02.09
* Mr Witty’s contract was renewed in June 2008 following his appointment as Dr D Podolsky 03.07.06
CEO, and was supplemented on 4th February 2010 to reflect the changes to his Mr T de Swaan 21.12.05
severance terms outlined above. Sir Robert Wilson 09.06.03
No termination payments will be made in respect of any part of a Sir Ian Prosser* 19.06.00
notice period extending beyond the contract expiry date. Dr R Schmitz* 19.06.00
Other entitlements * Sir Ian Prosser and Dr Ronaldo Schmitz retired from the Board at the conclusion
In addition to the contractual provisions outlined above, in the of the AGM on 20th May 2009.
event that Executive Directors’ service agreements are terminated
by their employing company, the following will apply:
GSK Annual Report 200909P–45P
noitarenumer
dna
ecnanrevoG
82
Remuneration Report
Non-Executive Directors’ fees The shares or ADS which are notionally awarded to the
The company aims to provide Non-Executive Directors with fees Non-Executive Directors and allocated to their interest accounts
that are competitive with those paid by other companies of are included within the Directors’ interests tables on page 85.
equivalent size and complexity. Fees applying at 31st December The accumulated balance of these shares or ADS, together with
2009 are as follows: notional dividends subsequently reinvested, are not paid out to the
Non-Executive Directors until retirement from the Board.
Per annum
Upon retirement, the Non-Executive Directors will receive either the
Standard annual cash retainer fee £75,000
shares or ADS or a cash amount equal to the value of the shares or
Supplemental fees ADS at the date of retirement.
Chairman
Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee £80,000
Sir Christopher Gent’s letter of appointment to the Board was
Senior Independent Director
dated 26th May 2004, under which it was agreed that he would
and Scientific/Medical Experts £30,000 serve the company as Deputy Chairman until 31st December 2004
and from 1st January 2005 as Chairman until the conclusion of the
Chairman of the Remuneration and Corporate
AGM following the third anniversary of his appointment. This was
Responsibility Committee £20,000
extended for a further term of three years by mutual agreement,
Non-Executive Director undertaking £7,500 with effect from his re-election as a Director at the AGM held on
intercontinental travel to meetings per meeting 21st May 2008.
The Chairman’s fees are currently £540,000 per annum plus an
The Chairman is the current Chairman of the Corporate
allocation of shares to the value of £135,000 per annum.
Responsibility Committee, but does not receive the additional fee
listed above. TSR performance graph
To reflect the increased focus within the company on The following graph sets out the performance of the company
compliance and risk, GSK has significantly enlarged the remit relative to the FTSE 100 Index of which the company is a
and responsibilities of the Audit & Risk Committee, and the constituent and to the pharmaceutical performance comparator
commitment required from its Chairman. The company agreed group from 1st January 2004 to 31st December 2009. The graph
that the time requirement for his role as Committee Chairman has been prepared in accordance with the Regulations and is not
moving from approximately 30 days to approximately 80 days an indication of the likely vesting of awards granted under any of
per annum should be reflected through an increase in the fees the company’s incentive plans.
payable. Further details of the changes to the Committee’s terms
T20S0R performance
of reference and the new Audit and Assurance model are given
on pages 65 to 69.
175
Following an independent review, the supplemental fee for the
Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee was increased from
£30,000 per annum to £80,000 per annum with effect from
150
1st October 2009.
Exchange rate
125
Fees that are paid in US dollars were converted at the following
exchange rates:
Exchange rate
100
Date of approval Period rate applied £1/US$
29.07.04 01.10.04 – 31.03.08 US$1.8162
28.03.08 01.04.08 – 30.09.09 US$1.9918
75
03.12.09* 01.10.09 – 31.12.09 US$1.6395
31/12/04 31/12/05 31/12/06 31/12/07 31/12/ 08 3 1/12/0 9
01.01.10 – 31.12.10 US$1.6326
GlaxoSmithKline Total Return Index
* Given the recent fluctuations in the US dollar exchange rate; it was agreed GlaxoSmithKline Pharma Peers Return Index
that with effect from 1st October 2009 the exchange rate would be set FTSE 100 Total Return Index
annually based on the average daily rate for the last quarter of the year prior
to payment. The rate would be reviewed if exchange rates moved significantly Directors and Senior Management remuneration
during the year.
The following tables set out, for the Directors of GlaxoSmithKline
Non-Executive Directors’ share allocation plan plc, the remuneration earned in 2009, their interests in shares of
To enhance the link between Directors and shareholders, GSK GlaxoSmithKline plc, their interests in share options and incentive
requires Non-Executive Directors to receive a significant part of plans and their pension benefits. The members of the CET also
their fees in the form of shares. At least 25% of the Non-Executive participate in the same remuneration plans as the Executive
Directors’ total fees, excluding the Chairman, are paid in the form Directors. The aggregate remuneration and interests of the
of shares or ADS and allocated to a share account. The Non- Directors and Senior Management are also provided.
Executive Directors may also take the opportunity to invest part or
all of the balance of their fees into the same share account.
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
83
Remuneration Report
Annual remuneration
2009 2008
Total Total
Fees and Other Annual annual Fees and Other Annual annual
salary benefits bonus remuneration salary benefits bonus remuneration
Footnote 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000
Executive Directors
Mr A Witty a,b,c £948 £180 £2,000 £3,128 £687 £92 £999 £1,778
Mr J Heslop b £507 £56 £602 £1,165 £476 £32 £418 £926
Dr M Slaoui b,d $865 $507 $1,439 $2,811 $805 $405 $942 $2,152
Non-Executive Directors
Professor Sir Roy Anderson £120 – – £120 £116 – – £116
Sir Crispin Davis £102 – – £102 £86 – – £86
Sir Christopher Gent £675 £5 – £680 £650 £1 – £651
Mr J Murdoch e £54 – – £54 – – – –
Mr T de Swaan £133 – – £133 £116 – – £116
Sir Robert Wilson £116 – – £116 £106 – – £106
Dr S Burns $188 – – $188 $194 – – $194
Mr L Culp $188 – – $188 $179 – – $179
Sir Deryck Maughan $188 – – $188 $179 – – $179
Dr D Podolsky $245 – – $245 $252 – – $252
Former Directors
Dr M Barzach i £80 – – £80 £71 – – £71
Mr J Coombe – £2 – £2 – £3 – £3
Sir Ian Prosser h £48 £5 – £53 £111 – – £111
Dr R Schmitz h £37 £5 – £42 £86 – – £86
Dr JP Garnier b – $5,885 – $5,885 $756 $1,586 $759 $3,101
Dr L Shapiro f – – – – $85 – – $85
Mr C Viehbacher b,g – – – – $687 $123 – $810
Dr T Yamada b – $19 – $19 – $2,243 – $2,243
Total remuneration £3,893 £4,363 £3,525 £11,781 £4,201 £2,483 £2,336 £9,020
Analysed as:
Executive Directors £2,009 £561 £3,525 £6,095 £1,598 £343 £1,926 £3,867
Non-Executive Directors £1,719 £5 – £1,724 £1,706 £1 – £1,707
Former Directors £165 £3,797 – £3,962 £897 £2,139 £410 £3,446
Total remuneration £3,893 £4,363 £3,525 £11,781 £4,201 £2,483 £2,336 £9,020
Remuneration for Directors on the US payroll is reported in Dollars. Dollar amounts are included in the totals based on conversion to Sterling at the average exchange
rates for each year.
a) Mr Witty joined the Board on 31st January 2008 and his remuneration is disclosed from this date.
b) Following the merger, and in order to encourage employees to convert their non-savings related options held over legacy shares or ADS, for options over
GlaxoSmithKline shares or ADS, employees were granted an additional cash benefit equal to 10% of the grant price of the original option. This additional benefit,
known as the Exchange Offer Incentive (EOI), is only payable when the new option is exercised or lapses underwater. To qualify for this additional cash benefit,
participants had to retain these options until at least the second anniversary of the effective date of the merger. During the year, Mr Witty received £49,499
(2008 – £9,374), Mr Heslop received £32,000 (2008 – £14,499) and Dr Slaoui received $32,281 as a result of options granted to them in 1999 lapsing. Dr Garnier
received $5,512,369 (2008 – $1,227,599), Mr Viehbacher received $nil (2008 – $50,744) and Dr Yamada received $nil (2008 – $2,225,018) as a result of options
granted to them in 1999 lapsing.
c) Mr Witty has elected to participate in GSK’s Deferred Annual Bonus plan in respect of his bonus for 2009 as described on page 78.
d) Dr Slaoui is a Non-Executive Director of the Agency for Science, Technology and Research (A*STAR) in respect of which he received $3,951 (2008 – $3,961) during
2009 which is not included above.
e) Mr Murdoch was appointed to the Board with effect from 20th May 2009.
f) Dr Shapiro retired from the Board on 17th May 2006 and stepped down as a member of GSK’s Scientific Advisory Board on 21st July 2008. During 2008 she
received fees of $85,000 of which $30,000 was in the form of ADS. These are included within fees and salary above.
g) Mr Viehbacher was appointed to the Board on 31st January 2008 and his remuneration is disclosed from this date. He resigned from the Board on 8th September
2008 and left the company on 31st December 2008.
h) Sir Ian Prosser and Dr R Schmitz retired as Non-Executive Directors of the company on 20th May 2009. On leaving the Board both Sir Ian Prosser and Dr R Schmitz
received the accumulated balance of shares previously awarded under the Non-Executive Directors’ share arrangements based on the then current share price.
This differs from the value as at the dates of allocation as set out in the table on page 85. These are not included within fees and salaries above.
i) Dr Barzach received fees of €89,700 (2008 – €89,700) from GlaxoSmithKline France for healthcare consultancy provided. These are included within fees and salary
above.
None of the above Directors received reimbursement for expenses during the year requiring separate disclosure as required by the Regulations.
GSK Annual Report 200909P–45P
noitarenumer
dna
ecnanrevoG
84
Remuneration Report
Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration
2009 2008
Total Cash Shares/ADS Total Cash Shares/ADS
Fees 000 000 000 000 000 000
Current Non-Executive Directors
Professor Sir Roy Anderson £120 £90 £30 £116 £87 £29
Sir Crispin Davis £102 – £102 £86 – £86
Sir Christopher Gent £675 £540 £135 £650 £520 £130
Mr J Murdoch £54 £40 £14 – – –
Mr T de Swaan £133 £99 £34 £116 £87 £29
Sir Robert Wilson £116 £87 £29 £106 £79 £27
Dr S Burns $188 $141 $47 $194 $97 $97
Mr L Culp $188 $141 $47 $179 – $179
Sir Deryck Maughan $188 $141 $47 $179 – $179
Dr D Podolsky $245 $184 $61 $252 $126 $126
Former Non-Executive Directors
Sir Ian Prosser £48 £31 £17 £111 £56 £55
Dr R Schmitz £37 £26 £11 £86 £51 £35
Total Remuneration £1,804 £1,302 £502 £1,706 £1,001 £705
The table above sets out the remuneration received as Non-Executive Directors of the company.
Non-Executive Directors are required to take at least a part of their total fees in the form of shares allocated to a share account which is
not paid out until retirement from the Board (see page 82 for further details). The total value of these shares and ADS as at the date of
award, together with the cash payment, forms their total fees, which are included within the Annual remuneration table under ‘Fees and
salary’. The table above sets out the value of their fees received in the form of cash and shares and ADS.
The table below sets out the accumulated number of shares and ADS held by the Non-Executive Directors in relation to their fees received
as Board members as at 31st December 2009, together with the movements in their accounts over the year.
Number of shares and ADS
Allocated Dividends
Non-Executive Directors’ share arrangements Footnote At 31.12.08 & elected reinvested Paid out At 31.12.09
Current Non-Executive Directors
Shares
Professor Sir Roy Anderson 3,001 2,578 151 – 5,730
Sir Crispin Davis 32,683 8,725 1,501 – 42,909
Sir Christopher Gent a 39,589 11,614 1,822 – 53,025
Mr J Murdoch b – 1,075 2 – 1,077
Mr T de Swaan 5,784 2,891 277 – 8,952
Sir Robert Wilson 9,221 2,488 424 – 12,133
ADS
Dr S Burns 3,645 1,293 158 – 5,096
Mr L Culp 16,822 1,293 717 – 18,832
Sir Deryck Maughan 14,756 1,293 629 – 16,678
Dr D Podolsky 6,064 1,689 264 – 8,017
Former Non-Executive Directors
Sir Ian Prosser 30,802 1,599 1,308 32,469 1,240
Dr R Schmitz 23,519 995 997 25,511 –
a) The Chairman receives an allocation of shares to the value of £135,000 per annum.
b) Mr Murdoch was appointed to the Board with effect from 20th May 2009.
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
85
Remuneration Report
The table below sets out the settlement of former Non-Executive Directors’ share arrangements on their leaving the Board:
Value of Value of
Date of awards on awards on Payments
Footnote leaving allocation leaving in 2009
Sir Ian Prosser a,b 20.05.09 £382,142 £356,644 £343,525
Dr R Schmitz a,c 20.05.09 £285,566 £269,906 £269,906
a) The change in value of awards between allocation and leaving is attributable to dividends re-invested and the change in share price between the dates of
award and dates of leaving.
b) Awards to Sir Ian Prosser under the Non-Executive Directors’ share arrangements were partially settled in shares during 2009 with the balance of 1,240 shares
to be settled in 2010.
c) Awards to Dr R Schmitz under the Non-Executive Directors’ share arrangements were settled in cash during 2009.
Directors’ interests
The following interests of the Directors of the company and their connected persons are shown in accordance with the FSA Listing Rules.
Shares ADS
1st January
19th February 31st December 2009 or date of 19th February 31st December 1st January
Footnote 2010 2009 appointment 2010 2009 2009
Executive Directors
Mr A Witty a 100,658 91,472 73,753 – – –
Mr J Heslop a 49,631 49,350 47,750 – – –
Dr M Slaoui b 61,402 60,948 48,636 666 592 411
Non-Executive Directors
Professor Sir Roy Anderson c 5,730 5,730 3,001 – – –
Dr S Burns c 44 44 44 5,161 5,161 3,805
Mr L Culp c – – – 18,832 18,832 16,822
Sir Crispin Davis c 49,669 49,669 39,443 – – –
Sir Christopher Gent c 53,025 53,025 39,589 – – –
Sir Deryck Maughan c – – – 16,678 16,678 14,756
Mr J Murdoch c,d 2,077 2,077 – – – –
Dr D Podolsky c – – – 8,017 8,017 6,065
Mr T de Swaan c 8,952 8,952 5,784 – – –
Sir Robert Wilson c 18,262 18,262 15,349 – – –
One GlaxoSmithKline ADS represents two GlaxoSmithKline shares. The interests of the above-mentioned Directors at 19th February 2010 reflect the change between the
year-end and that date.
a) Includes shares purchased through the GlaxoSmithKline ShareReward Plan for Mr Witty totalling 2,216 at 31st December 2009 (31st December 2008 – 1,853)
and 2,281 shares at 19th February 2010 and Mr Heslop totalling 2,216 at 31st December 2009 (31st December 2008 – 1,853) and 2,281 shares at 19th
February 2010.
b) Includes ADS purchased in the GlaxoSmithKline Stock Fund within the US Retirement Savings Plan and US Executive Supplemental Savings Plan.
c) Includes shares and ADS received as part or all of their fees, as described under Non-Executive Directors’ share allocation plan on page 82. Dividends received on
these shares and ADS were converted to shares and ADS as at 31st December 2009.
d) Mr Murdoch was appointed to the Board with effect from 20th May 2009. His holdings are shown from that date.
GSK Annual Report 200909P–45P
noitarenumer
dna
ecnanrevoG
86
Remuneration Report
Incentive plans
Share options
Options – Shares Granted
Footnote At 31.12.08 Date of grant Exercise period Grant price Number Lapsed At 31.12.09
Mr A Witty 1,664,623 – – – – 114,921 1,549,702
Mr J Heslop a 1,020,361 01.12.09 01.12.12 – 31.05.16 £9.72 933 131,894 889,400
Dr M Slaoui b 170,712 – – – – 15,522 155,190
Options – ADS Granted
At 31.12.08 Date of grant Exercise period Grant price Number Lapsed At 31.12.09
Dr M Slaoui b 324,640 17.02.09 17.02.12 – 16.02.19 $33.42 164,690 – 489,330
a) The grant of share options to Mr Heslop is in respect of his participation in the 2009 ShareSave plan.
b) These details include the interests of Dr Slaoui’s connected person who is also an employee of GSK.
For those options outstanding at 31st December 2009, the earliest and latest vesting and lapse dates for options above and below the
market price for a GlaxoSmithKline share at the year-end are given in the table below.
Weighted average Vesting date Lapse date
Mr A Witty grant price Number earliest latest earliest latest
Options above market price at year-end: vested 16.29 297,693 25.02.03 20.02.09 24.02.10 19.02.16
unvested 14.88 195,500 19.02.10 19.02.10 17.02.17 17.02.17
Options below market price at year-end: vested 11.85 385,500 02.12.05 30.11.07 30.11.12 01.12.14
unvested 11.63 671,009 18.12.11 01.12.11 31.05.12 20.07.18
Total share options as at 31st December 2009 12.99 1,549,702
Weighted average Vesting date Lapse date
Mr J Heslop grant price Number earliest latest earliest latest
Options above market price at year-end: vested 15.93 286,717 25.02.03 20.02.09 24.02.10 19.02.16
unvested 14.88 242,750 19.02.10 19.02.10 17.02.17 17.02.17
Options below market price at year-end: vested 11.90 116,250 27.10.06 30.11.07 25.10.13 01.12.14
unvested 11.46 243,683 18.02.11 30.11.12 31.05.13 16.02.18
Total share options as at 31st December 2009 13.89 889,400
Weighted average Vesting date Lapse date
Dr M Slaoui grant price Number earliest latest earliest latest
Options above market price at year-end: vested 14.68 73,340 20.02.09 20.02.09 19.02.16 19.02.16
Options below market price at year-end: vested 11.59 81,850 02.12.05 30.11.07 30.11.12 01.12.14
Total share options as at 31st December 2009 13.05 155,190
Options above market price at year-end: unvested 51.38 324,640 19.02.10 18.02.11 17.02.17 16.02.18
Options below market price at year-end: unvested 33.42 164,690 17.02.12 17.02.12 15.02.19 15.02.19
Total ADS options as at 31st December 2009 45.33 489,330
This includes those share options held by Dr Slaoui’s connected person, who is also an employee of GSK.
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
87
Remuneration Report
GSK granted share options to Executive Directors on an annual basis until 2009. The Directors hold these options under the various share
option plans referred to in Note 42 to the financial statements, ‘Employee share schemes’. None of the Non-Executive Directors had an
interest in any option over the company’s shares.
The table below sets out, for share options granted in respect of 2007 and 2008, the performance periods, the performance targets and
whether or not the options have vested at 31st December 2009.
Performance target
Vesting status Annualised growth Percentage of
Grant Footnote Performance period at 31.12.09 in EPS award vesting
February 2007 a 01.01.07 – 31.12.09 Unvested > RPI + 6% 100%
February 2008 01.01.08 – 31.12.10 Unvested RPI + 5% 83%
RPI + 4% 67%
RPI + 3% 50%
< RPI + 3% 0%
a) The performance targets for these share options were not met, and as a result they lapsed on the third anniversary of the date of grant.
The table below sets out, for share options granted in respect of 2009 the performance period and targets.
Performance target
Vesting status Annualised growth Percentage of
Grant Performance period at 31.12.09 in EPS award vesting
February 2009 – 50% of award 01.01.09 – 31.12.11 Unvested > RPI + 6% 100%
February 2009 – 50% of award 01.01.09 – 31.12.12 Unvested RPI + 5% 85%
RPI + 4% 65%
RPI + 3% 30%
< RPI + 3% 0%
The highest and lowest closing prices during the year ended 31st December 2009 for GlaxoSmithKline shares were £13.34 and £9.87,
respectively. The highest and lowest prices for GlaxoSmithKline ADS during the year ended 31st December 2009 were $42.91 and
$27.27, respectively. The market price for a GlaxoSmithKline share on 31st December 2009 was £13.20 (31st December 2008 – £12.85)
and for a GlaxoSmithKline ADS was $42.25 (31st December 2008 – $37.27). The prices on 19th February 2010 were £12.35 per
GlaxoSmithKline share and $38.26 per GlaxoSmithKline ADS.
Performance Share Plan (PSP) awards
Performance share awards are made to Executive Directors on an annual basis. The Directors hold these options under the various PSP
plans referred to in Note 42 to the financial statements.
Market Additional
Mr A Witty – Shares Number price on Vested shares by
Unvested granted in date of Market dividends Unvested
Performance period at 31.12.08 2009 grant Number price Gain Lapsed reinvested at 31.12.09
01.01.06 – 31.12.08 85,942 – £14.68 – – – 87,126 1,184 –
01.01.07 – 31.12.09 91,821 – £14.88 – – – – 3,589 95,410
01.01.08 – 31.12.10 232,908 – £11.47 – – – – 9,102 242,010
01.01.08 – 31.12.10 63,443 – £12.21 – – – – 2,480 65,923
01.01.09 – 31.12.11 – 470,809 £10.51 – – – – 5,337 476,146
Market Additional
Mr J Heslop – Shares Number price on Vested shares by
Unvested granted in date of Market dividends Unvested
Performance period at 31.12.08 2009 grant Number price Gain Lapsed reinvested at 31.12.09
01.01.06 – 31.12.08 111,613 – £14.68 – – – 113,150 1,537 –
01.01.07 – 31.12.09 113,426 – £14.88 – – – – 4,433 117,859
01.01.08 – 31.12.10 108,690 – £11.47 – – – – 4,248 112,938
01.01.09 – 31.12.11 – 197,740 £10.51 – – – – 2,242 199,982
GSK Annual Report 200909P–45P
noitarenumer
dna
ecnanrevoG
88
Remuneration Report
Market Additional
Dr M Slaoui – Shares Number price on Vested shares by
Unvested granted in date of Market dividends Unvested
Performance period at 31.12.08 2009 grant Number price Gain Lapsed reinvested at 31.12.09
01.01.06 – 31.12.08 32,055 – £14.68 16,248 11.91 193,518 16,248 441 –
Market Additional
Dr M Slaoui – ADS Number price on Vested ADS by
Unvested granted in date of Market dividends Unvested
Performance period at 31.12.08 2009 grant Number price Gain Lapsed reinvested at 31.12.09
01.01.07 – 31.12.09 76,284 – $58.00 – – – – 3,002 79,286
01.01.08 – 31.12.10 73,115 – $44.75 – – – – 2,876 75,991
01.01.09 – 31.12.11 – 2,620 $33.42 – – – – 66 2,686
01.01.09 – 31.12.11 – 69,000 $33.50 – – – – 804 69,804
This includes those performance shares held by Dr Slaoui’s connected person, who is also an employee of GSK.
Under the terms of the PSP the number of shares actually vesting is determined following the end of the relevant measurement period
and is dependent on GSK’s performance during that period as described on pages 78 to 79. The Committee adjusted the comparator
group by removing Schering-Plough and Wyeth following their de-listing during 2009, and revised the vesting schedule accordingly.
For outstanding and future awards, TSR performance will be measured against the revised comparator group including GSK, as set
out below.
Dividends are reinvested on the performance shares awarded to Executives, throughout the performance period and up to the date of
the final award. The dividend reinvestment is calculated as of the dividend payment date. Under the terms of the PSP, US participants may
defer receipt of all or part of their vested awards. The total gain on vesting of PSP awards made by Executive Directors and connected
persons is £193,518 (2008 – £4,826,067).
The following vesting schedules apply to PSP awards made in 2007 and 2008.
TSR vesting schedule
Award % of Award Performance Period TSR rank with 12 other companies Percentage of award vesting
2007 100 01.01.07 – 31.12.09 1 100%
2008 100 01.01.08 – 31.12.10 2 100%
3 87%
4 74%
5 61%
6 48%
Median 35%
Below median 0%
The following vesting schedules apply to PSP awards made in 2009.
TSR vesting schedule
Award % of Award Performance Period TSR rank with 10 other companies Percentage of award vesting
2009 30 01.01.09 – 31.12.11 1 100%
30 01.01.09 – 31.12.12 2 100%
3 100%
4 80%
5 55%
Median 30%
Below median 0%
Adjusted free cash flow vesting schedule
Cash flow Targets
Award % of Award Performance Period £bn Percentage of award vesting
2009 40 01.01.09 – 31.12.11 13.5 – 16.0 25% – 100%
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
89
Remuneration Report
Share Value Plan awards
Market
Dr M Slaoui – Shares and ADS Number price on Vested & deferred
Unvested granted in date of Market Unvested
Plan year at 31.12.08 2009 grant Number price Gain at 31.12.09
2006 (Shares) 1,200 – £14.68 1,200 £11.33 £13,596 –
2007 (ADS) 890 – $58.00 – – – 890
2008 (ADS) 890 – $44.75 – – – 890
2008 (ADS) 2,980 – $48.55 – – – 2,980
2009 (ADS) – 1,490 $33.42 – – – 1,490
As an Executive Director, Dr Slaoui is not eligible to receive awards under the Share Value Plan. The awards shown above reflect the
holdings of Dr Slaoui’s connected person, an employee of GSK. The awards are subject to three-year vesting periods and vesting is
contingent on continued employment with GSK.
Pension benefits
The accrued annual pension benefits and transfer values for Executive Directors in office on 31st December 2009 on retirement are set
out below.
The Companies Act 2006 requires disclosure of the accrued benefit at the end of the year, the change in accrued benefit over the
year, the transfer value at both the beginning and end of the year and the change in the transfer value over the year. The Listing Rules
require additional disclosure of the change in the accrued benefit, net of inflation and the transfer value of this change. Pensions for the
Executive Directors have been disclosed in the currency in which the pension is payable.
Change in
Change in Personal accrued Transfer value
Accrued Accrued accrued contributions Transfer Transfer Change benefit over of change
benefit at benefit at benefit made during value at value at in transfer year net in accrued
31.12.08 31.12.09 over year the year 31.12.08 31.12.09 value of inflation benefit *
Executive Directors 000 000 000 000 000 000 000* 000 000
Mr A Witty £315 £446 £131 £30 £3,848 £6,272 £2,394 £115 £1,638
Mr J Heslop £170 £201 £31 £16 £2,837 £3,787 £934 £23 £471
Dr M Slaoui $131 $187 $56 – $731 $1,101 $370 $54 $370
Dr M Slaoui €55 €59 €4 – €608 €647 €39 €3 €39
* These are shown net of contributions made by the individual.
Mr Witty and Mr Heslop participate in the Glaxo Wellcome Defined Benefit Plan with an accrual rate of 1/30th of final pensionable
salary per annum. In 2000 all benefits accrued under the Glaxo Wellcome UK pension arrangements were augmented by the Trustees of
the plans by 5% to reflect a distribution of surplus. This augmentation will apply to that element of Mr Witty and Mr Heslop’s pension
earnings before 31st March 2000.
Mr Witty’s and Mr Heslop’s transfer values have been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with pensions regulation.
The transfer value represents the present value of future payments to be made under the pension plan. Mr Witty’s annual accrued benefit
has increased by £130,556 (£114,770 excluding the effects of inflation), and the transfer value less personal contributions has increased
by £2,394,197 over the year. Mr Heslop’s annual accrued benefit has increased by £31,040 (£22,504 excluding the effects of inflation)
and the transfer value less personal contributions has increased by £934,150 over the year.
GSK Annual Report 200909P–45P
noitarenumer
dna
ecnanrevoG
90
Remuneration Report
Dr Slaoui is a member of the US Executive Cash Balance Pension At 19th February 2010, the group (comprising 27 persons) owned
Plan. The plan provides for an Executive Pension Credit, under 872,256 shares and 85,156 ADS, constituting less than 2% of
which GSK makes annual contributions calculated as a percentage the issued share capital of the company. The group also held, at
of the executive’s base salary. GSK makes contributions at 38% that date: options to purchase 7,269,817 shares and 2,109,720
of base pay. The fund increases at an interest rate set annually in ADS; 2,263,230 shares and 748,782 ADS awarded under the
advance based on the 30 year US Treasury bond rate to provide a Performance Share Plan, including those shares and ADS that are
cash sum at retirement. The plan has no entitlement to a spouse’s vested and deferred; 40,139 vested and deferred ADS under the
pension or to pension increases. legacy SmithKline Beecham Mid-Term Incentive Plan; 20,130 shares
and 6,250 ADS awarded under the Share Value Plan and 88,435
The transfer value, or cash sum, has increased by $369,981 for
notional shares awarded under the Deferred Investment Award
Dr Slaoui over the year as a result of further accumulation of
Plan. These holdings were issued under the various executive share
interest and contributions paid by the company.
option plans described in Note 42 to the financial statements,
Dr Slaoui was an active participant in the Belgium Fortis Plan ‘Employee share schemes’.
until 31st May 2006. This plan is a defined benefit plan with
Directors’ interests in contracts
a lump sum payable at normal retirement which is age 60 for
Except as described in Note 35 to the financial statements, ‘Related
the plan. The transfer value, or cash sum, of Dr Slaoui’s plan
party transactions’, during or at the end of the financial year no
has increased by €38,893 over the year as a result of further
Director or connected person had any material interest in any
accumulation of interest.
contract of significance in relation to the Group’s business with a
Dr Slaoui is a member of the US Retirement Savings Plan, a 401k Group company.
savings scheme open to all US employees and the Executive
Basis of preparation
Supplemental Savings Plan, a savings scheme open to executives
to accrue benefits above US government limits imposed on the The Directors’ Remuneration Report has been prepared in
Retirement Savings Plan. Contributions to both plans are invested accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and The Large and
in a range of funds and the value of the accumulated funds is paid Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports)
at retirement. Regulations 2008 (the Regulations) and meets the relevant
requirements of the FSA Listing Rules. In accordance with the
During 2009, contributions of $108,249 (£69,390) were paid into Regulations, the following sections of the Remuneration Report are
these two schemes by GSK in respect of Dr Slaoui. subject to audit: Annual remuneration; Non-Executive Directors’
Directors and Senior Management remuneration; Incentive plans – Share Options; Performance Share
Plan awards and their vesting criteria; Share Value Plan awards and
Further information is also provided on compensation and interests
Pension benefits for which the opinion thereon is expressed on
of Directors and Senior Management as a group (‘the group’).
page 178. The remaining sections are not subject to audit nor are
For this purpose, the group is defined as the Executive and
the pages referred to from within the audited sections.
Non-Executive Directors and members of the CET. For the financial
The Remuneration report has been approved by the Board of
year 2009, the total compensation paid to members of the group
Directors and signed on its behalf by
for the periods during which they served in that capacity was
£23,187,437, the aggregate increase in accrued pension benefits,
net of inflation, was £1,225,166 and the aggregate payment to
defined contribution schemes was £393,409.
Sir Christopher Gent
During 2009, the members of the group were granted 941,000
Chairman
share options and 665,940 ADS options under the Share Option
24th February 2010
plan, were awarded 1,073,049 shares and 308,370 ADS under
the Performance Share Plan, were awarded 2,500 shares and
1,490 ADS under the Share Value Plan. No notional shares or ADS
were granted under the Deferred Investment Award Plan in 2009.
Members of the group were awarded through the reinvestment
of dividends 61,370 shares and 20,218 ADS in the Performance
Share Plan and 4,854 notional shares in the Deferred Investment
Award Plan.
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
91
Financial statements
The financial statements
provide a summary of the Directors’ statement of responsibilities 92
Independent Auditors’ report 93
Group’s financial performance
Financial statements
throughout 2009 and its position
Consolidated income statement 94
as at 31st December 2009. Consolidated statement of
comprehensive income 94
The consolidated financial
Consolidated balance sheet 96
statements are prepared in Consolidated statement of changes
in equity 97
accordance with the IFRS as
Consolidated cash flow statement 98
adopted by the European Union
Notes to the financial statements
and also IFRS as issued by the
1. Presentation of the financial statements 99
International Accounting 2. Accounting principles and policies 100
3. Key accounting judgements and estimates 104
Standards Board.
4. New accounting requirements 106
5. Exchange rates 106
6. Segment information 107
7. Major restructuring programmes 110
8. Other operating income 112
9. Operating profit 112
10. Employee costs 113
11. Finance income 113
Financial statements
12. Finance costs 114
The consolidated financial statements present the 13. Associates and joint ventures 114
profit and cash flow for the year and the balance 14. Taxation 115
sheet position at the end of the year. 15. Earnings per share 117
16. Dividends 118
17. Property, plant and equipment 118
Notes to the financial statements
18. Goodwill 120
The notes to the financial statements provide
19. Other intangible assets 123
supporting analyses to the primary statements.
20. Investments in associates and joint ventures 125
21. Other investments 126
22. Other non-current assets 126
Financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc
23. Inventories 126 The financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc
24. Trade and other receivables 127
provide information on the company and are
25. Cash and cash equivalents 127
prepared under UK GAAP.
26. Assets held for sale 127
27. Trade and other payables 128
28. Pensions and other post-employment benefits 128
29. Other provisions 136
30. Other non-current liabilities 138
31. Contingent liabilities 138
32. Net debt 138
33. Share capital and share premium account 140
34. Movements in equity 141
35. Related party transactions 142
36. Adjustments reconciling profit after tax to
operating cash flows 142
37. Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement
in net debt 143
38. Acquisitions and disposals 143
39. Commitments 151
40. Post balance sheet events 151
41. Financial instruments and related disclosures 152
42. Employee share schemes 161
43. Principal Group companies 166
44. Legal proceedings 169
Financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc,
prepared under UK GAAP 177
GSK Annual Report 2009281P–19P
stnemetats
laicnaniF
92
Directors’ statement of responsibilities
Directors’ statement of responsibilities in relation • the Business review section contained in the Annual Report
to the Group financial statements includes a fair review of the development and performance of
the business and the position of the Group, together with a
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report,
description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
the Remuneration Report and the Group financial statements in
accordance with applicable law and regulations. Disclosure of information to auditors
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements The Directors in office at the date of this Report have each
for each financial year. Under that law the Directors have elected confirmed that:
to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with
• so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the
information of which the company’s auditors are unaware;
European Union. In preparing the Group financial statements, the
and
Directors have also elected to comply with IFRS, as issued by the
• he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have
International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). Under company
taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any
law the Directors must not approve the Group financial statements
relevant audit information and to establish that the company’s
unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the
auditors are aware of that information.
state of affairs of the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group
for that period. This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance
with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to:
Going concern basis
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply
them consistently; The Business review on pages 6 to 53 contains information on
the performance of the Group, its financial position, cash flows,
• make judgements and accounting estimates that are
net debt position and borrowing facilities. Further information,
reasonable and prudent;
including Treasury risk management policies, exposures to market
• state that the Group financial statements comply with IFRS
and credit risk and hedging activities, is given in Note 41 to the
as adopted by the European Union and IFRS as issued by
financial statements, ‘Financial instruments and related disclosures’.
the IASB, subject to any material departures disclosed and
explained in the financial statements. After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting
operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason,
records that are sufficient to show and explain the company’s
they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the
financial statements.
financial position of the Group and to enable them to ensure that
the Group financial statements and the Directors’ Remuneration Internal control
Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the The Board, through the Audit & Risk Committee, has reviewed the
IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assessment of risks and the internal control framework that operates
assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the in GSK and has considered the effectiveness of the system of internal
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities. control in operation in the Group for the year covered by this report
and up to the date of its approval by the Board of Directors.
The Group financial statements for the year ended 31st December
2009, comprising principal statements and supporting notes, The Combined Code
are set out in ‘Financial statements’ on pages 94 to 176 of
The Board considers that GlaxoSmithKline plc applies the Main
this Report.
Principles of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance of
The responsibilities of the auditors in relation to the Group financial the Financial Reporting Council, as described under ‘Corporate
statements are set out in the Independent Auditors’ report on governance’ on pages 54 to 72, and has complied with its
page 93. provisions except as described on page 71.
The Group financial statements for the year ended 31st December As required by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority,
2009 are included in the Annual Report, which is published in the auditors have considered the Directors’ statement of
hard-copy printed form and made available on the company’s compliance in relation to those points of the Combined Code
website. The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and which are specified for their review.
integrity of the Annual Report on the website in accordance
Annual Report
with UK legislation governing the preparation and dissemination
The Annual Report for the year ended 31st December 2009,
of financial statements. Access to the website is available from
comprising the Report of the Directors, the Remuneration Report,
outside the UK, where comparable legislation may be different.
the Financial statements and additional information for investors,
Each of the current Directors, whose names and functions are listed has been approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its
in the Corporate governance section of the Annual Report 2009 behalf by
confirms that, to the best of his or her knowledge:
Sir Christopher Gent
• the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in
Chairman
accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and IFRS as issued
24th February 2010
by IASB, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities,
financial position and profit of the Group; and
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
93
Independent Auditors’ report
to the members of GlaxoSmithKline plc
We have audited the Group financial statements of Opinion on other matter prescribed by the
GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year ended 31st December 2009 which Companies Act 2006
comprise the Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated
In our opinion the information given in the Directors’ Report for
statement of comprehensive income, the Consolidated balance
the financial year for which the Group financial statements are
sheet, the Consolidated statement of changes in equity, the
prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
Consolidated cash flow statement, and the related notes 1-44.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their Matters on which we are required to report
preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting by exception
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Respective responsibilities of directors and
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if,
auditors in our opinion:
As explained more fully in the Directors’ statement of • certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law
responsibilities set out on page 92, the directors are responsible for are not made; or
the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being
• we have not received all the information and explanations we
satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to
require for our audit.
audit the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable
law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices • the Directors’ statement, set out on page 92, in relation to
Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. going concern; and
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and • the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to
only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with the company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the June
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume
Other matters
responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to
whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save We have reported separately on the parent company financial
where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing. statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year ended
31st December 2009 and on the information in the Directors’
Scope of the audit of the financial statements Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and
The Company has passed a resolution in accordance with section
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable
506 of the Companies Act 2006 that the senior statutory auditor’s
assurance that the financial statements are free from material
name should not be stated.
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to
the Group’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and
adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
the financial statements.
London
Opinion on financial statements 24th February 2010
In our opinion the Group financial statements:
• g ive a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as
at 31st December 2009 and of its profit and cash flows for the
year then ended;
• have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as
adopted by the European Union; and
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of
the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued
by the IASB
As explained in Note 1 to the Group financial statements, the
Group in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRSs as
issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB).
In our opinion the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as
issued by the IASB.
GSK Annual Report 2009281P–19P
stnemetats
laicnaniF
94
Consolidated income statement
for the year ended 31st December 2009
2009
Results
before major Major
restructuring restructuring Total
Notes £m £m £m
Turnover 6 28,368 – 28,368
Cost of sales (7,095) (285) (7,380)
Gross profit 21,273 (285) 20,988
Selling, general and administration (9,200) (392) (9,592)
Research and development (3,951) (155) (4,106)
Other operating income 8 1,135 – 1,135
Operating profit 9,10 9,257 (832) 8,425
Finance income 11 70 – 70
Finance costs 12 (780) (3) (783)
Profit on disposal of interest in associate 115 – 115
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures 13 64 – 64
Profit before taxation 8,726 (835) 7,891
Taxation 14 (2,443) 221 (2,222)
Profit after taxation for the year 6,283 (614) 5,669
Profit attributable to minority interests 138 – 138
Profit attributable to shareholders 6,145 (614) 5,531
6,283 (614) 5,669
Basic earnings per share (pence) 15 109.1p
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 15 108.2p
The calculation of ‘Results before major restructuring’ is described in Note 1, ‘Presentation of the financial statements’.
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
for the year ended 31st December 2009
2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Profit for the year 5,669 4,712 5,310
Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges (194) 1,017 411
Reclassification of exchange on liquidation of overseas subsidiary (44) 84 –
Tax on exchange movements 19 15 21
Fair value movements on available-for-sale investments 42 (47) (53)
Deferred tax on fair value movements on available-for-sale investments (24) 5 8
Reclassification of fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – (34) (46)
Deferred tax reversed on reclassification of available-for-sale investments 13 3 11
Actuarial (losses)/gains on defined benefit plans (659) (1,370) 671
Deferred tax on actuarial movements in defined benefit plans 183 441 (195)
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges (6) 6 (6)
Deferred tax on fair value movements on cash flow hedges 2 (3) 2
Reclassification of cash flow hedges to income and expense 1 – –
Fair value movement on subsidiary acquisition (6) – –
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year (673) 117 824
Total comprehensive income for the year 4,996 4,829 6,134
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to:
Shareholders 4,895 4,670 6,012
Minority interests 101 159 122
Total comprehensive income for the year 4,996 4,829 6,134
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
95
2009 2008 2007
Results Results Results
before major Major before major Major before major Major
restructuring restructuring Total restructuring restructuring Total restructuring restructuring Total
Notes £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 6 28,368 – 28,368 24,352 – 24,352 22,716 – 22,716
Cost of sales (7,095) (285) (7,380) (5,776) (639) (6,415) (5,206) (111) (5,317)
Gross profit 21,273 (285) 20,988 18,576 (639) 17,937 17,510 (111) 17,399
Selling, general and administration (9,200) (392) (9,592) (7,352) (304) (7,656) (6,817) (137) (6,954)
Research and development (3,951) (155) (4,106) (3,506) (175) (3,681) (3,237) (90) (3,327)
Other operating income 8 1,135 – 1,135 541 – 541 475 – 475
Operating profit 9,10 9,257 (832) 8,425 8,259 (1,118) 7,141 7,931 (338) 7,593
Finance income 11 70 – 70 313 – 313 262 – 262
Finance costs 12 (780) (3) (783) (838) (5) (843) (453) – (453)
Profit on disposal of interest in associate 115 – 115 – – – – – –
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures 13 64 – 64 48 – 48 50 – 50
Profit before taxation 8,726 (835) 7,891 7,782 (1,123) 6,659 7,790 (338) 7,452
Taxation 14 (2,443) 221 (2,222) (2,231) 284 (1,947) (2,219) 77 (2,142)
Profit after taxation for the year 6,283 (614) 5,669 5,551 (839) 4,712 5,571 (261) 5,310
Profit attributable to minority interests 138 – 138 110 – 110 96 – 96
Profit attributable to shareholders 6,145 (614) 5,531 5,441 (839) 4,602 5,475 (261) 5,214
6,283 (614) 5,669 5,551 (839) 4,712 5,571 (261) 5,310
Basic earnings per share (pence) 15 109.1p 88.6p 94.4p
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 15 108.2p 88.1p 93.7p
The calculation of ‘Results before major restructuring’ is described in Note 1, ‘Presentation of the financial statements’.
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
for the year ended 31st December 2009
2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Profit for the year 5,669 4,712 5,310
Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges (194) 1,017 411
Reclassification of exchange on liquidation of overseas subsidiary (44) 84 –
Tax on exchange movements 19 15 21
Fair value movements on available-for-sale investments 42 (47) (53)
Deferred tax on fair value movements on available-for-sale investments (24) 5 8
Reclassification of fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – (34) (46)
Deferred tax reversed on reclassification of available-for-sale investments 13 3 11
Actuarial (losses)/gains on defined benefit plans (659) (1,370) 671
Deferred tax on actuarial movements in defined benefit plans 183 441 (195)
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges (6) 6 (6)
Deferred tax on fair value movements on cash flow hedges 2 (3) 2
Reclassification of cash flow hedges to income and expense 1 – –
Fair value movement on subsidiary acquisition (6) – –
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year (673) 117 824
Total comprehensive income for the year 4,996 4,829 6,134
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to:
Shareholders 4,895 4,670 6,012
Minority interests 101 159 122
Total comprehensive income for the year 4,996 4,829 6,134
GSK Annual Report 2009281P–19P
stnemetats
laicnaniF
96
Consolidated balance sheet
as at 31st December 2009
2009 2008
Notes £m £m
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 17 9,374 9,678
Goodwill 18 3,361 2,101
Other intangible assets 19 8,183 5,869
Investments in associates and joint ventures 20 895 552
Other investments 21 454 478
Deferred tax assets 14 2,374 2,760
Derivative financial instruments 41 68 107
Other non-current assets 22 583 579
Total non-current assets 25,292 22,124
Current assets
Inventories 23 4,064 4,056
Current tax recoverable 14 58 76
Trade and other receivables 24 6,492 6,265
Derivative financial instruments 41 129 856
Liquid investments 32 268 391
Cash and cash equivalents 25 6,545 5,623
Assets held for sale 26 14 2
Total current assets 17,570 17,269
Total assets 42,862 39,393
Current liabilities
Short-term borrowings 32 (1,471) (956)
Trade and other payables 27 (6,772) (6,075)
Derivative financial instruments 41 (168) (752)
Current tax payable 14 (1,451) (780)
Short-term provisions 29 (2,256) (1,454)
Total current liabilities (12,118) (10,017)
Non-current liabilities
Long-term borrowings 32 (14,786) (15,231)
Deferred tax liabilities 14 (645) (714)
Pensions and other post-employment benefits 28 (2,981) (3,039)
Other provisions 29 (985) (1,645)
Derivative financial instruments 41 – (2)
Other non-current liabilities 30 (605) (427)
Total non-current liabilities (20,002) (21,058)
Total liabilities (32,120) (31,075)
Net assets 10,742 8,318
Equity
Share capital 33 1,416 1,415
Share premium account 33 1,368 1,326
Retained earnings 34 6,321 4,622
Other reserves 34 900 568
Shareholders’ equity 10,005 7,931
Minority interests 737 387
Total equity 10,742 8,318
Approved by the Board on 24th February 2010
Sir Christopher Gent
Chairman
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
97
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31st December 2009
Shareholders’ equity
Share Share Retained Other Minority Total
capital premium earnings reserves Total interests equity
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1st January 2007 1,498 858 6,965 65 9,386 262 9,648
Profit for the year – – 5,214 – 5,214 96 5,310
Other comprehensive income for the year – – 890 (92) 798 26 824
Distributions to minority interests – – – – – (77) (77)
Dividends to shareholders – – (2,793) – (2,793) – (2,793)
Ordinary shares issued 9 408 – – 417 – 417
Ordinary shares purchased and cancelled (4) – (213) 4 (213) – (213)
Ordinary shares purchased and held as Treasury shares – – (3,537) – (3,537) – (3,537)
Ordinary shares acquired by ESOP Trusts – – – (26) (26) – (26)
Ordinary shares transferred by ESOP Trusts – – – 116 116 – 116
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts – – (292) 292 – – –
Share-based incentive plans – – 237 – 237 – 237
Tax on share-based incentive plans – – 4 – 4 – 4
At 31st December 2007 1,503 1,266 6,475 359 9,603 307 9,910
Profit for the year – – 4,602 – 4,602 110 4,712
Other comprehensive income for the year – – 121 (53) 68 49 117
Distributions to minority interests – – – – – (79) (79)
Dividends to shareholders – – (2,929) – (2,929) – (2,929)
Ordinary shares issued 2 60 – – 62 – 62
Ordinary shares purchased and cancelled (90) – (3,706) 90 (3,706) – (3,706)
Ordinary shares acquired by ESOP Trusts – – – (19) (19) – (19)
Ordinary shares transferred by ESOP Trusts – – – 10 10 – 10
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts – – (181) 181 – – –
Share-based incentive plans – – 241 – 241 – 241
Tax on share-based incentive plans – – (1) – (1) – (1)
At 31st December 2008 1,415 1,326 4,622 568 7,931 387 8,318
Profit for the year – – 5,531 – 5,531 138 5,669
Other comprehensive expense for the year – – (663) 27 (636) (37) (673)
Distributions to minority interests – – – – – (89) (89)
Changes in minority shareholdings – – – – – 338 338
Put option over minority interest – – – (2) (2) – (2)
Dividends to shareholders – – (3,003) – (3,003) – (3,003)
Ordinary shares issued 1 42 – – 43 – 43
Ordinary shares acquired by ESOP Trusts – – – (57) (57) – (57)
Ordinary shares transferred by ESOP Trusts – – – 13 13 – 13
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts – – (351) 351 – – –
Share-based incentive plans – – 171 – 171 – 171
Tax on share-based incentive plans – – 14 – 14 – 14
At 31st December 2009 1,416 1,368 6,321 900 10,005 737 10,742
GSK Annual Report 2009281P–19P
stnemetats
laicnaniF
98
Consolidated cash flow statement
for the year ended 31st December 2009
2009 2008 2007
Notes £m £m £m
Cash flow from operating activities
Profit after taxation for the year 5,669 4,712 5,310
Adjustments reconciling profit after tax to operating cash flows 36 3,876 4,343 2,770
Cash generated from operations 9,545 9,055 8,080
Taxation paid (1,704) (1,850) (1,919)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 7,841 7,205 6,161
Cash flow from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (1,418) (1,437) (1,516)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 48 20 35
Purchase of intangible assets (455) (632) (627)
Proceeds from sale of intangible assets 356 171 9
Purchase of equity investments (154) (87) (186)
Proceeds from sale of equity investments 59 42 45
Purchase of businesses, net of cash acquired 38 (2,792) (454) (1,027)
Investments in associates and joint ventures 38 (29) (9) (1)
Decrease/(increase) in liquid investments 87 905 (39)
Interest received 90 320 247
Dividends from associates and joint ventures 17 12 12
Proceeds from disposal of associates 178 – –
Net cash outflow from investing activities (4,013) (1,149) (3,048)
Cash flow from financing activities
Proceeds from own shares for employee share options 13 9 116
Shares acquired by ESOP Trusts (57) (19) (26)
Issue of share capital 33 43 62 417
Purchase of own shares for cancellation – (3,706) (213)
Purchase of Treasury shares – – (3,538)
Increase in long-term loans 1,358 5,523 3,483
Repayment of long-term loans – – (207)
Increase in short-term loans 646 275 2,057
Repayment of short-term loans (748) (3,334) (425)
Net repayment of obligations under finance leases (48) (48) (39)
Interest paid (780) (730) (378)
Dividends paid to shareholders (3,003) (2,929) (2,793)
Dividends paid to minority interests (89) (79) (77)
Other financing cash flows (109) 68 (79)
Net cash outflow from financing activities (2,774) (4,908) (1,702)
Increase in cash and bank overdrafts 37 1,054 1,148 1,411
Exchange adjustments (158) 1,103 48
Cash and bank overdrafts at beginning of year 5,472 3,221 1,762
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year 6,368 5,472 3,221
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year comprise:
Cash and cash equivalents 6,545 5,623 3,379
Overdrafts (177) (151) (158)
6,368 5,472 3,221
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
99
Notes to the financial statements
1 Presentation of the financial statements With an estimated total cost of approximately £4.5 billion, the
Description of business expanded programme is expected to deliver annual pre-tax
savings of approximately £2.2 billion by the time it is substantially
GlaxoSmithKline is a major global healthcare group which is
complete in 2012. Given the extent and cost of the Operational
engaged in the creation and discovery, development, manufacture
Excellence programme, management believes it has a material
and marketing of pharmaceutical products including vaccines,
impact on GSK’s operating results and on the manner in which
over-the-counter (OTC) medicines and health-related consumer
GSK’s business is conducted. GSK presents the restructuring costs products. GSK’s principal pharmaceutical products include
incurred solely as a direct result of the Operational Excellence
medicines in the following therapeutic areas: respiratory, anti-virals,
programme in a separate column in the income statement titled
central nervous system, cardiovascular and urogenital, metabolic,
‘Major restructuring’.
anti-bacterials, oncology and emesis, dermatalogicals and vaccines.
In addition to the restructuring costs of the Operational Excellence
Compliance with applicable law and IFRS
programme, the major restructuring column in the income
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with
statement includes restructuring costs incurred solely as a direct
the Companies Act 2006, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and
result of any restructuring programmes that follow, and relate to,
International Accounting Standards (IAS) and International Financial
material acquisitions where the operations of the acquired business
Reporting Standards (IFRS) and related interpretations, as adopted
overlap extensively with GSK’s existing operations.
by the European Union.
The restructuring activities that follow, and relate to, such
The financial statements are also in compliance with IFRS as issued acquisitions are of the same nature as those undertaken under
by the International Accounting Standards Board. the Operational Excellence programme and are also carried out
following a detailed formal plan. Management therefore considers
Composition of financial statements
it appropriate to present the costs of these restructuring activities
The consolidated financial statements are drawn up in Sterling, the
in the same manner. The $1.65 billion (£814 million) acquisition of
functional currency of GlaxoSmithKline plc, and in accordance with Reliant Pharmaceuticals in December 2007 and the $3.6 billion
IFRS accounting presentation. The financial statements comprise:
(£2.2 billion) acquisition of Stiefel Laboratories in July 2009 are
• Consolidated income statement the only acquisitions since October 2007 that meet the criteria set
out above and are the only acquisitions where the costs incurred
• Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
as a direct result of a related restructuring programme have been
• Consolidated balance sheet
included within the major restructuring column.
• Consolidated statement of changes in equity
The Group’s results before the costs of the Operational Excellence
• Consolidated cash flow statement
programme and acquisition-related restructuring programmes
• Notes to the financial statements. meeting the criteria described above are also presented in a
separate column in the income statement and are described as
Accounting convention
’Results before major restructuring’. This presentation, which
The financial statements have been prepared using the historical
GSK intends to apply consistently to future major restructuring
cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain items,
programmes that have a material impact on GSK’s operating results
as stated in the accounting policies.
and on the manner in which GSK’s business is conducted, has
Financial period been adopted to show clearly the Group’s results both before and
These financial statements cover the financial year from 1st January after the costs of these restructuring programmes. Management
to 31st December 2009, with comparative figures for the financial believes that this presentation assists investors in gaining a clearer
years from 1st January to 31st December 2008 and, where understanding of the Group’s financial performance and in
appropriate, from 1st January to 31st December 2007. making projections of future financial performance, as results that
include such costs, by virtue of their size and nature, have limited
Composition of the Group comparative value. This presentation is also consistent with the way
A list of the subsidiary and associated undertakings which, in the management assesses the Group’s financial performance.
opinion of the Directors, principally affected the amount of profit
Any restructuring costs that do not arise solely as a direct result
or the net assets of the Group is given in Note 43, ‘Principal Group
of the Operational Excellence programme and restructuring
companies’.
programmes following, and relating to, acquisitions meeting the
Presentation of restructuring costs criteria described above continue to be reported in operating
In October 2007, the Board approved the implementation of a expenses within results before major restructuring.
detailed formal plan for, and GSK announced, a significant new
Operational Excellence restructuring programme. A second formal
plan, representing a significant expansion of the Operational
Excellence programme, was approved by the Board and announced
in February 2009. A further expansion was approved by the Board
and announced in February 2010. This restructuring programme,
comprising these detailed formal plans, covers all areas of GSK’s
business, including manufacturing, selling, R&D and infrastructure.
GSK Annual Report 2009281P–19P
stnemetats
laicnaniF
100
Notes to the financial statements
1 Presentation of the financial statements 2 Accounting principles and policies
continued Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements include:
Accounting principles and policies
The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with • the assets and liabilities, and the results and cash flows, of the
generally accepted accounting principles requires management to company and its subsidiaries, including ESOP Trusts
make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts
• the Group’s share of the results and net assets of associates
of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and
and joint ventures.
liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported
amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. The financial statements of entities consolidated are made up to
Actual results could differ from those estimates. 31st December each year.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance Entities over which the Group has the power to govern the
with the Group’s accounting policies approved by the Board financial and operating policies are accounted for as subsidiaries.
and described in Note 2, ‘Accounting principles and policies’. Where the Group has the ability to exercise joint control, the
Information on the application of these accounting policies, entities are accounted for as joint ventures, and where the Group
including areas of estimation and judgement is given in Note 3, has the ability to exercise significant influence, they are accounted
‘Key accounting judgements and estimates’. Where appropriate, for as associates. The results and assets and liabilities of associates
comparative figures are reclassified to ensure a consistent and joint ventures are incorporated into the consolidated financial
presentation with current year information. statements using the equity method of accounting.
Implementation of new accounting standards Interests acquired in entities are consolidated from the date the
With effect from 1st January 2009, GSK has implemented IFRS 8 Group acquires control and interests sold are de-consolidated
‘Operating segments’, IAS 1 (Revised) ‘Presentation of financial from the date control ceases.
statements’, IAS 23 (Revised) ‘Borrowing costs’ and minor
Transactions and balances between subsidiaries are eliminated
amendments to a number of other accounting standards.
and no profit before tax is taken on sales between subsidiaries
The implementation of IFRS 8 has resulted in changes to the
until the products are sold to customers outside the Group.
segmental information reported by GSK. Comparative information
The relevant proportion of profits on transactions with joint
has been presented on a consistent basis. Further information is
ventures and associates is also deferred until the products are sold
given in Note 6, ‘Segment information’.
to third parties. Deferred tax relief on unrealised intra-Group profit
Parent company financial statements is accounted for only to the extent that it is considered recoverable.
The financial statements of the parent company, GlaxoSmithKline
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of interests in subsidiaries, joint
plc, have been prepared in accordance with UK GAAP and with UK
ventures and associates, representing the excess of the acquisition
accounting presentation. The company balance sheet is presented
cost over the Group’s share of the fair values of the identifiable
on page 179 and the accounting policies are given on page 180.
assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired, is capitalised
as a separate item in the case of subsidiaries and as part of the
cost of investment in the case of joint ventures and associates.
Goodwill is denominated in the currency of the operation acquired.
Where the cost of acquisition is below the fair value of the net
assets acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the
income statement.
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
101
Notes to the financial statements
2 Accounting principles and policies continued Expenditure
Expenditure is recognised in respect of goods and services received
Foreign currency translation
when supplied in accordance with contractual terms. Provision is
Foreign currency transactions are booked in the functional currency
made when an obligation exists for a future liability in respect of a
of the Group company at the exchange rate ruling on the date of
past event and where the amount of the obligation can be reliably
transaction. Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are
estimated. Manufacturing start-up costs between validation and
retranslated into the functional currency at rates of exchange ruling
the achievement of normal production are expensed as incurred.
at the balance sheet date. Exchange differences are included in the
Advertising and promotion expenditure is charged to the income
income statement.
statement as incurred. Shipment costs on intercompany transfers
On consolidation, assets and liabilities, including related goodwill, are charged to cost of sales; distribution costs on sales to customers
of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, are are included in selling, general and administrative expenditure.
translated into Sterling at rates of exchange ruling at the balance
Restructuring costs are recognised and provided for, where
sheet date. The results and cash flows of overseas subsidiaries,
appropriate, in respect of the direct expenditure of a business
associates and joint ventures are translated into Sterling using
reorganisation where the plans are sufficiently detailed and well
average rates of exchange.
advanced, and where appropriate communication to those
Exchange adjustments arising when the opening net assets and the affected has been undertaken.
profits for the year retained by overseas subsidiaries, associates and
Research and development
joint ventures are translated into Sterling, less exchange differences
Research and development expenditure is charged to the income
arising on related foreign currency borrowings which hedge the
statement in the period in which it is incurred. Development
Group’s net investment in these operations, are taken to a separate
expenditure is capitalised when the criteria for recognising an asset
component of equity.
are met, usually when a regulatory filing has been made in a major
When translating into Sterling the assets, liabilities, results and market and approval is considered highly probable. Property, plant
cash flows of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures and equipment used for research and development is depreciated
which are reported in currencies of hyper-inflationary economies, in accordance with the Group’s policy.
adjustments are made where material to reflect current price levels.
Environmental expenditure
Any loss on net monetary assets is charged to the consolidated
Environmental expenditure related to existing conditions resulting income statement.
from past or current operations and from which no current or
Revenue future benefit is discernible is charged to the income statement.
Revenue is recognised in the income statement when goods or The Group recognises its liability on a site-by-site basis when it can
services are supplied or made available to external customers be reliably estimated. This liability includes the Group’s portion of
against orders received, title and risk of loss is passed to the the total costs and also a portion of other potentially responsible
customer, and reliable estimates can be made of relevant parties’ costs when it is probable that they will not be able to
deductions. Turnover represents net invoice value after the satisfy their respective shares of the clean-up obligation. Recoveries
deduction of discounts and allowances given and accruals for of reimbursements are recorded as assets when virtually certain.
estimated future rebates and returns. The methodology and
Legal and other disputes
assumptions used to estimate rebates and returns are monitored
Provision is made for the anticipated settlement costs of legal or
and adjusted regularly in the light of contractual and legal
other disputes against the Group where an outflow of resources
obligations, historical trends, past experience and projected market
is considered probable and a reasonable estimate can be made of
conditions. Market conditions are evaluated using wholesaler and
the likely outcome. In addition, provision is made for legal or other
other third-party analyses, market research data and internally
expenses arising from claims received or other disputes.
generated information. Value added tax and other sales taxes are
In respect of product liability claims related to products where there
excluded from revenue.
is sufficient history of claims made and settlements, an incurred
Where the Group co-promotes a product and the third party but not reported (IBNR) actuarial technique is used to determine a
records the sale, the Group records its share of revenue as reasonable estimate of the Group’s exposure to unasserted claims
co-promotion income within turnover. The nature of co-promotion for those products and a provision is made on that basis.
activities is such that the Group records no costs of sales.
No provision is made for other unasserted claims. In respect of
Pharmaceutical turnover includes co-promotion revenue of
a number of legal proceedings in which the Group is involved,
£439 million (2008 – £378 million; 2007 – £274 million).
it is not possible to make a reasonable estimate of the expected
Royalty income is recognised in other operating income on financial effect, if any, that will result from ultimate resolution
an accruals basis in accordance with the terms of the relevant of the proceedings. In these cases, the Group may disclose
licensing agreements. information with respect to the nature and facts of the case but
no provision is typically made. Costs associated with claims made
by the Group against third parties are charged to the income
statement as they are incurred.
GSK Annual Report 2009281P–19P
stnemetats
laicnaniF
102
Notes to the financial statements
2 Accounting principles and policies continued Leases
Leasing agreements which transfer to the Group substantially
Pensions and other post-employment benefits
all the benefits and risks of ownership of an asset are treated as
The costs of providing pensions under defined benefit schemes are
finance leases, as if the asset had been purchased outright.
calculated using the projected unit credit method and spread over
The assets are included in PP&E or computer software and the
the period during which benefit is expected to be derived from
capital elements of the leasing commitments are shown as
the employees’ services, consistent with the advice of qualified
obligations under finance leases. Assets held under finance leases
actuaries. Pension obligations are measured as the present value of
are depreciated on a basis consistent with similar owned assets or
estimated future cash flows discounted at rates reflecting the yields
the lease term if shorter. The interest element of the lease rental is
of high quality corporate bonds.
included in the income statement. All other leases are operating
Pension scheme assets are measured at fair value at the balance leases and the rental costs are charged to the income statement on
sheet date. Actuarial gains and losses, differences between the a straight-line basis over the lease term.
expected and actual returns of assets and the effect of changes
Goodwill
in actuarial assumptions, are recognised in the statement of
Goodwill is stated at cost less impairments. Goodwill is deemed to
comprehensive income in the year in which they arise. The Group’s
have an indefinite useful life and is tested for impairment annually.
contributions to defined contribution plans are charged to the
income statement as incurred. The costs of other post-employment Where the fair value of the interest acquired in an entity’s assets,
liabilities are calculated in a similar way to defined benefit pension liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the consideration paid,
schemes and spread over the period during which benefit is this excess is recognised immediately as a gain in the income
expected to be derived from the employees’ services, in accordance statement.
with the advice of qualified actuaries.
Other intangible assets
Employee share plans Intangible assets are stated at cost less provisions for amortisation
Incentives in the form of shares are provided to employees under and impairments.
share option and share award schemes.
Licences, patents, know-how and marketing rights separately
The fair values of these options and awards are calculated at acquired or acquired as part of a business combination are
their grant dates using a Black-Scholes option pricing model and amortised over their estimated useful lives, generally not
charged to the income statement over the relevant vesting periods. exceeding 20 years, using the straight-line basis, from the
time they are available for use. The estimated useful lives for
The Group provides finance to ESOP Trusts to purchase company
determining the amortisation charge take into account patent
shares on the open market to meet the obligation to provide shares
lives, where applicable, as well as the value obtained from periods
when employees exercise their options or awards. Costs of running
of non-exclusivity. Asset lives are reviewed, and where appropriate
the ESOP Trusts are charged to the income statement. Shares held
adjusted, annually. Contingent milestone payments are recognised
by the ESOP Trusts are deducted from other reserves. A transfer
at the point that the contingent event becomes certain.
is made between other reserves and retained earnings over the
Any development costs incurred by the Group and associated
vesting periods of the related share options or awards to reflect the
with acquired licences, patents, know-how or marketing rights
ultimate proceeds receivable from employees on exercise.
are written off to the income statement when incurred, unless
Property, plant and equipment the criteria for recognition of an internally generated intangible
Property, plant and equipment (PP&E) is stated at the cost of asset are met, usually when a regulatory filing has been made in a
purchase or construction less provisions for depreciation and major market and approval is considered highly probable.
impairment. Financing costs are capitalised within the cost of
Acquired brands are valued independently as part of the fair value
qualifying assets in construction.
of businesses acquired from third parties where the brand has a
Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost less residual value value which is substantial and long-term and where the brands
of PP&E, excluding freehold land, using the straight-line basis over either are contractual or legal in nature or can be sold separately
the expected useful life. Residual values and lives are reviewed, and from the rest of the businesses acquired. Brands are amortised over
where appropriate adjusted, annually. The normal expected useful their estimated useful lives of up to 20 years, except where it is
lives of the major categories of PP&E are: considered that the useful economic life is indefinite.
The costs of acquiring and developing computer software for
Freehold buildings 20 to 50 years
internal use and internet sites for external use are capitalised
Leasehold land and
as intangible fixed assets where the software or site supports
buildings Lease term or 20 to 50 years
a significant business system and the expenditure leads to the
Plant and machinery 10 to 20 years
creation of a durable asset. ERP systems software is amortised over
Fixtures and equipment 3 to 10 years
seven years and other computer software over three to five years.
On disposal of PP&E, the cost and related accumulated
depreciation and impairments are removed from the financial
statements and the net amount, less any proceeds, is taken to the
income statement.
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
103
Notes to the financial statements
2 Accounting principles and policies continued Trade receivables
Trade receivables are carried at original invoice amount less any
Impairment of non-current assets
provisions for doubtful debts. Provisions are made where there is
The carrying values of all non-current assets are reviewed for
evidence of a risk of non-payment, taking into account ageing,
impairment when there is an indication that the assets might be
previous experience and general economic conditions. When a trade
impaired. Additionally, goodwill, intangible assets with indefinite
receivable is determined to be uncollectable it is written off, firstly
useful lives and intangible assets which are not yet available for use
against any provision available and then to the income statement.
are tested for impairment annually. Any provision for impairment is
charged to the income statement in the year concerned. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously provided for are
credited to the income statement. Long-term receivables are
Impairments of goodwill are not reversed. Impairment losses
discounted where the effect is material.
on other non-current assets are only reversed if there has been
a change in estimates used to determine recoverable amounts Trade payables
and only to the extent that the revised recoverable amounts do Trade payables are held at amortised cost which equates to
not exceed the carrying values that would have existed, net of nominal value. Long-term payables are discounted where the
depreciation or amortisation, had no impairments been recognised. effect is material.
Investments in associates and joint ventures Cash and cash equivalents
Investments in associates and joint ventures are carried in the Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, current balances
consolidated balance sheet at the Group’s share of their net assets with banks and similar institutions and highly liquid investments
at date of acquisition and of their post-acquisition retained profits with original maturities of three months or less. They are readily
or losses together with any goodwill arising on the acquisition. convertible into known amounts of cash and have an insignificant
risk of changes in value.
Available-for-sale investments
Liquid investments and other investments are classified as available- Borrowings
for-sale investments and are initially recorded at fair value plus All borrowings are initially recorded at the amount of proceeds
transaction costs and then remeasured at subsequent reporting received, net of transaction costs. Borrowings are subsequently
dates to fair value. Unrealised gains and losses on available-for-sale carried at amortised cost, with the difference between the
investments are recognised directly in other comprehensive income. proceeds, net of transaction costs, and the amount due on
Impairments arising from the significant or prolonged decline in fair redemption being recognised as a charge to the income statement
value of an equity investment reduce the carrying amount of the over the period of the relevant borrowing.
asset directly and are charged to the income statement.
Taxation
On disposal or impairment of the investments, any gains and Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid
losses that have been deferred in other comprehensive income applying tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted
are reclassified to the income statement. Dividends on equity by the balance sheet date.
investments are recognised in the income statement when the
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on
Group’s right to receive payment is established. Equity investments
temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and
are recorded in non-current assets unless they are expected to be
liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements.
sold within one year.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable
Purchases and sales of equity investments are accounted for on that future taxable profits will be available against which the
the trade date and purchases and sales of other available-for-sale temporary differences can be utilised. Deferred tax is provided
investments are accounted for on settlement date. on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries,
associates and joint ventures, except where the timing of the
Inventories
reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled and it is
Inventories are included in the financial statements at the lower of
probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the
cost (including raw materials, direct labour, other direct costs and
foreseeable future. Deferred tax is provided using rates of tax that
related production overheads) and net realisable value.
have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet
Cost is generally determined on a first in, first out basis. Pre-launch
date. Deferred tax liabilities and assets are not discounted.
inventory is held as an asset when there is a high probability of
regulatory approval for the product. Before that point a provision
is made against the carrying value to its recoverable amount; the
provision is then reversed at the point when a high probability of
regulatory approval is determined.
GSK Annual Report 2009281P–19P
stnemetats
laicnaniF
104
Notes to the financial statements
2 Accounting principles and policies continued 3 Key accounting judgements and estimates
In preparing the financial statements, management is required
Derivative financial instruments and hedging
to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts of
Derivative financial instruments are used to manage exposure to
assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses reported in the financial
market risks from treasury operations. The principal derivative
statements. Actual amounts and results could differ from those
instruments used by GlaxoSmithKline are foreign currency swaps,
estimates. The following are considered to be the key accounting
interest rate swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts.
judgements and estimates made.
The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments
for trading or speculative purposes. Turnover
Revenue is recognised when title and risk of loss is passed to
Derivative financial instruments are classified as held-for-trading
the customer and reliable estimates can be made of relevant
and are carried in the balance sheet at fair value. Derivatives
deductions. Gross turnover is reduced by rebates, discounts,
designated as hedging instruments are classified on inception as
allowances and product returns given or expected to be given,
cash flow hedges, net investment hedges or fair value hedges.
which vary by product arrangements and buying groups.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow These arrangements with purchasing organisations are dependent
hedges are recognised in other comprehensive income to the upon the submission of claims some time after the initial
extent that the hedges are effective. Ineffective portions are recognition of the sale. Accruals are made at the time of sale for
recognised in profit or loss immediately. Amounts deferred in other the estimated rebates, discounts or allowances payable or returns
comprehensive income are reclassified to the income statement to be made, based on available market information and
when the hedged item affects profit or loss. historical experience.
Net investment hedges are accounted for in a similar way to cash Because the amounts are estimated they may not fully reflect the
flow hedges. final outcome, and the amounts are subject to change dependent
upon, amongst other things, the types of buying group and
Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as fair value
product sales mix.
hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with the
changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability. The level of accrual is reviewed and adjusted regularly in the
light of contractual and legal obligations, historical trends, past
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not
experience and projected market conditions. Market conditions are
qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the
evaluated using wholesaler and other third-party analyses, market
income statement.
research data and internally generated information. Future events
Discounting could cause the assumptions on which the accruals are based to
Where the time effect of money is material, balances are discounted change, which could affect the future results of the Group.
to current values using appropriate rates of interest. The unwinding
Taxation
of the discounts is recorded in finance income and finance costs.
Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid, and
deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between the
tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts, at
the rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the
balance sheet date.
The Group has open tax issues with a number of revenue
authorities. GSK continues to believe that it has made adequate
provision for the liabilities likely to arise from open assessments.
Where open issues exist the ultimate liability for such matters
may vary from the amounts provided and is dependent upon the
outcome of negotiations with the relevant tax authorities or, if
necessary, litigation proceedings.
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
105
Notes to the financial statements
3 Key accounting judgements and estimates Other intangible assets
continued Where intangible assets are acquired by GSK from third parties
the costs of acquisition are capitalised. Licences to compounds
Legal and other disputes
in development are amortised from the point at which they are
GSK provides for anticipated settlement costs where an outflow of available for use, over their estimated useful lives, which may
resources is considered probable and a reasonable estimate may include periods of non-exclusivity. Estimated useful lives are
be made of the likely outcome of the dispute and legal and other reviewed annually and impairment tests are undertaken if events
expenses arising from claims against the Group. occur which call into question the carrying values of the assets.
The company’s Directors, having taken legal advice, have Brands acquired with businesses are capitalised independently
established provisions after taking into account the relevant where they are separable and have an expected life of more than
facts and circumstances of each matter and in accordance with one year. Brands are amortised on a straight-line basis over their
accounting requirements. Provisions for product liability claims on estimated useful lives, not exceeding 20 years, except where the
certain products have been made on an ‘incurred but not reported’ end of the useful economic life cannot be foreseen. Where brands
basis where sufficient history of claims made and settlements is are not amortised, they are subject to annual impairment tests.
available. No provisions have been made for other unasserted Both initial valuations and valuations for subsequent impairment
claims. In respect of a number of legal proceedings in which the tests are based on established market multiples or risk-adjusted
Group is involved, it is not possible to make a reasonable estimate future cash flows discounted using appropriate interest rates.
of the expected financial effect, if any, that will result from ultimate These future cash flows are based on business forecasts and are
resolution of the proceedings. In these cases, the Group may therefore inherently judgemental. Future events could cause the
disclose information with respect to the nature and facts of the assumptions used in these impairment reviews to change with a
cases but no provision is typically made. At 31st December 2009 consequent adverse effect on the future results of the Group.
provisions for legal and other disputes amounted to £2,020 million
(2008 – £1,903 million). Pensions and other post-employment benefits
The costs of providing pensions and other post-employment
The ultimate liability for legal claims may vary from the amounts
benefits are charged to the income statement in accordance
provided and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation
with IAS 19 over the period during which benefit is derived from
proceedings, investigations and possible settlement negotiations.
the employee’s services. The costs are assessed on the basis of
The position could change over time and there can, therefore, be assumptions selected by management. These assumptions
no assurance that any losses that result from the outcome of any
include future earnings and pension increases, discount rates,
legal proceedings will not exceed the amount of the provisions
expected long term rates of return on assets and mortality
reported in the Group’s financial statements.
rates, and are disclosed in Note 28, ‘Pensions and other post-
Property, plant and equipment employment benefits’.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are tested The expected long term rates of return on bonds are determined
for impairment when there is an indication that the values of the based on the portfolio mix of index-linked, government and
assets might be impaired. Impairment is determined by reference corporate bonds. An equity risk premium is added to this
to the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use, for equities.
measured by assessing risk-adjusted future cash flows discounted
using appropriate interest rates. These future cash flows are based Discount rates are derived from AA rated corporate bond yields
on business forecasts and are therefore inherently judgemental. except in countries where there is no deep market in corporate
Future events could cause the assumptions used in these bonds where government bond yields are used. Sensitivity analysis
impairment tests, as set out in Note 17, ‘Property, plant and is provided in Note 28, ‘Pensions and other post-employment
equipment’, to change with a consequent adverse effect benefits’, but a 0.25% reduction in the discount rate would lead
on the future results of the Group. to an increase in the net pension deficit of approximately
£440 million and an increase in the annual pension cost of
Goodwill
approximately £7 million. The selection of different assumptions
Goodwill arising on business combinations is capitalised and could affect the future results of the Group.
allocated to an appropriate cash generating unit. It is deemed
to have an indefinite life and so is not amortised. Annual
impairment tests of the relevant cash generating units are
performed. Impairment tests are based on established market
multiples or risk-adjusted future cash flows discounted using
appropriate interest rates. These future cash flows are based
on business forecasts and are therefore inherently judgemental.
Future events could cause the assumptions used in these
impairment tests, as set out in Note 18, ‘Goodwill’, to change
with a consequent adverse effect on the future results of
the Group.
GSK Annual Report 2009281P–19P
stnemetats
laicnaniF
106
Notes to the financial statements
4 New accounting requirements The following new standards and interpretations have not yet been
The following new and amended accounting standards and IFRIC endorsed by the EU:
interpretations have been issued by the IASB and are likely to The IASB’s annual improvements project was published in April
affect future Annual Reports, although none is expected to have a 2009 and most of the changes are effective from 1st January 2010.
material impact on the results or financial position of the Group. The project makes minor amendments to a number of Standards in
IFRS 3 (Revised) ‘Business combinations’ was issued in January areas including operating segments, share-based payments, leases,
2008 and will apply to business combinations arising from intangible assets and financial instruments.
1st January 2010. Amongst other changes, the new Standard An amendment to IFRS 2 ‘Share-based payment – Group cash-
will require recognition of subsequent changes in the fair value settled share-based payment transactions’ was issued in June
of contingent consideration in the income statement rather 2009 and will be implemented by GSK from 1st January 2010.
than against goodwill, and transaction costs to be recognised The amendment clarifies the scope of IFRS 2 and the accounting
immediately in the income statement. Fair value gains or for group cash-settled share-based payment transactions in the
losses on existing investments in an acquired company will be financial statements of individual group entities.
recognised in the income statement at the date of acquisition.
IAS 24 (Revised) ‘Related party disclosures’ was issued in November
IAS 27 (Revised) ‘Consolidated and separate financial statements’
2009 and will be implemented by GSK from 1st January 2011.
was issued in January 2008 and will be implemented at the
The revised Standard clarifies the definition of a related party and
same time as IFRS 3 (Revised). In respect of transactions with
provides some exemptions for government related entities.
non-controlling interests in Group entities that do not result
in a change of control, the revised Standard requires that the IFRS 9 ‘Financial instruments’ was issued in November 2009
difference between the consideration paid or received and the and will be implemented by GSK from 1st January 2013.
recorded non-controlling interest is recognised in equity. In the The Standard is the first step in the project to replace IAS 39 and
case of divestment of a subsidiary, any retained interest will be covers the classification and measurement of financial assets.
remeasured to fair value and the difference between fair value The IASB intends to expand IFRS 9 to add new requirements for the
and the previous carrying value will be recognised immediately in classification and measurement of financial liabilities, derecognition
the income statement. of financial instruments, impairment and hedge accounting to
become a complete replacement of IAS 39 by the end of 2010.
IFRS 3 (Revised) and IAS 27 (Revised) will both be applied
prospectively to transactions occurring on or after 1st January 2010. IFRIC 19 ‘Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments’
was issued in November 2009 and will be implemented by
An amendment to IAS 39 ‘Financial instruments: Recognition
GSK from 1st January 2011. The Interpretation addresses the
and measurement – Eligible hedged items’ was issued in July 2008
accounting by an entity that issues equity instruments in order to
and will be implemented by GSK from 1st January 2010.
settle a financial liability in part or in full.
The amendment clarifies two aspects of hedge accounting relating
to hedging with options and the identification of inflation as a An amendment to IFRIC 14 ‘Pre-payments of a minimum
hedged risk. funding requirement’ was issued in November 2009 and will be
implemented by GSK from 1st January 2011. The amendment
An amendment to IAS 32 ‘Financial instruments: Presentation –
permits a voluntary prepayment of a minimum funding requirement
Classification of rights issues’ was issued in October 2009 and will
to be recognised as an asset.
be implemented by GSK from 1st January 2011. The amendment
requires an issue to all existing shareholders of rights to acquire 5 Exchange rates
additional shares to be recognised in equity, regardless of the The Group uses the average of exchange rates prevailing during
currency of the shares. the period to translate the results and cash flows of overseas
subsidiaries, joint ventures and associated undertakings into
IFRIC 17 ‘Distributions of non-cash assets to owners’ was published
Sterling and period end rates to translate the net assets of
in November 2008 and will be implemented by GSK from
those undertakings. The currencies which most influence these
1st January 2010. The Interpretation specifies how an entity
translations and the relevant exchange rates were:
should account for distributions of non-cash assets to its owners.
2009 2008 2007
Average rates:
£/US$ 1.56 1.85 2.00
£/Euro 1.12 1.26 1.46
£/Yen 146 192 235
Period end rates:
£/US$ 1.61 1.44 1.99
£/Euro 1.13 1.04 1.36
£/Yen 150 131 222
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
107
Notes to the financial statements
6 Segment information
GSK has implemented IFRS 8 ‘Operating segments’ with effect from 1st January 2009 and this has resulted in a change to the
segmental information reported by GSK. Comparative information has been presented on a consistent basis.
GSK’s operating segments are being reported based on the financial information provided to the Chief Executive Officer and the
responsibilities of the Corporate Executive Team (CET). Individual members of the CET are responsible for geographic regions of the
Pharmaceuticals business and for the Consumer Healthcare business as a whole, respectively, before major restructuring.
R&D investment is essential for the sustainability of the pharmaceutical businesses. However, for segment reporting, the USA, Europe,
Emerging Markets and Asia Pacific/Japan regional pharmaceutical operating profits exclude allocations of globally funded R&D as
well as central costs, principally corporate functions and unallocated manufacturing costs. GSK’s management reporting process
allocates all intra-Group profit on a product sale to the market in which that sale is recorded, and the profit analyses below have been
presented on that basis.
The Other trading pharmaceuticals segment includes Canada, Puerto Rico, Stiefel, central vaccine tender sales and contract
manufacturing sales. The Stiefel business is being integrated into GSK and with effect from 1st January 2010, results will be reported
within the relevant geographical pharmaceuticals segments, in line with the way in which the business will be managed.
GSK acquired the HIV business of Pfizer with effect from 30th October 2009 in return for a 15% minority stake in the combined HIV
businesses, now called ViiV Healthcare Limited. In line with the way the ViiV Healthcare business is to be managed, it will be reported as
a separate segment from 1st January 2010. For 2009, the GSK HIV business is reported within the relevant Pharmaceuticals segments;
incremental income and costs since the creation of ViiV Healthcare have been reported within Other trading pharmaceuticals.
The Pharmaceuticals R&D segment is the responsibility of the Chairman, Research & Development and is therefore being reported as a
separate segment.
Unallocated pharmaceuticals costs include costs such as vaccines R&D and central manufacturing costs not attributed to other segments.
Corporate and other unallocated costs and disposal profits include corporate functions, costs for legal matters, fair value movements
on financial instruments and investments and unallocated profits on asset disposals.
2008 2007
2009 (restated) (restated)
Turnover by segment £m £m £m
US pharmaceuticals 9,180 8,894 9,273
Europe pharmaceuticals 7,681 6,483 5,560
Emerging Markets pharmaceuticals 2,973 2,290 1,895
Asia Pacific/Japan pharmaceuticals 2,700 1,918 1,701
Other trading pharmaceuticals 1,180 796 734
Pharmaceuticals turnover 23,714 20,381 19,163
Consumer Healthcare turnover 4,654 3,971 3,553
28,368 24,352 22,716
2009 2008 2007
Pharmaceutical turnover by therapeutic area
£m £m £m
Respiratory 6,977 5,817 5,032
Anti-virals 4,150 3,206 3,027
Central nervous system 1,870 2,897 3,348
Cardiovascular and urogenital 2,298 1,847 1,554
Metabolic 1,181 1,191 1,508
Anti-bacterials 1,592 1,429 1,323
Oncology and emesis 629 496 477
Vaccines 3,706 2,539 1,993
Other 1,311 959 901
23,714 20,381 19,163
2009 2008 2007
Consumer Healthcare turnover by category
£m £m £m
OTC medicines 2,319 1,935 1,788
Oral healthcare 1,484 1,240 1,049
Nutritional healthcare 851 796 716
4,654 3,971 3,553
GSK Annual Report 2009281P–19P
stnemetats
laicnaniF
108
Notes to the financial statements
6 Segment information continued
During 2009, the US pharmaceuticals business made sales to three wholesalers of approximately £2,760 million (2008 – £2,460 million;
2007 – £2,060 million), £2,710 million (2008 – £2,710 million; 2007 – £2,880 million) and £1,680 million (2008 – £1,980 million;
2007 – £2,360 million) respectively, after allocating final-customer discounts to the wholesalers.
2008 2007
Segment profit 2009 (restated) (restated)
£m £m £m
US pharmaceuticals 6,420 5,947 6,364
Europe pharmaceuticals 4,509 3,765 3,110
Emerging Markets pharmaceuticals 1,048 947 686
Asia Pacific/Japan pharmaceuticals 1,424 1,078 896
Other trading pharmaceuticals 490 476 358
Pharmaceuticals R&D (3,082) (2,875) (2,707)
Other unallocated pharmaceuticals costs (1,334) (726) (841)
Pharmaceuticals operating profit 9,475 8,612 7,866
Consumer Healthcare operating profit 952 881 805
Segment profit 10,427 9,493 8,671
Corporate and other unallocated costs and disposal profits (1,170) (1,234) (740)
Operating profit before major restructuring 9,257 8,259 7,931
Major restructuring (832) (1,118) (338)
Total operating profit 8,425 7,141 7,593
Finance income 70 313 262
Finance costs (783) (843) (453)
Profit on disposal of interest in associate 115 – –
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures 64 48 50
Profit before taxation 7,891 6,659 7,452
Taxation (2,222) (1,947) (2,142)
Profit after taxation for the year 5,669 4,712 5,310
2008 2007
Depreciation and amortisation by segment 2009 (restated) (restated)
£m £m £m
US pharmaceuticals 112 110 46
Europe pharmaceuticals 37 36 31
Emerging Markets pharmaceuticals 39 22 18
Asia Pacific/Japan pharmaceuticals 21 10 11
Other trading pharmaceuticals 58 4 5
Pharmaceuticals R&D 363 318 334
Other unallocated pharmaceuticals 623 541 479
Pharmaceuticals depreciation and amortisation 1,253 1,041 924
Consumer Healthcare depreciation and amortisation 63 60 44
Segment depreciation and amortisation 1,316 1,101 968
Corporate and other unallocated depreciation and amortisation 78 77 54
Depreciation and amortisation before major restructuring 1,394 1,178 1,022
Major restructuring 168 53 –
Total depreciation and amortisation 1,562 1,231 1,022
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
109
Notes to the financial statements
6 Segment information continued
PP&E and intangible asset impairment by segment 2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
US pharmaceuticals 1 1 1
Europe pharmaceuticals 7 2 –
Emerging Markets pharmaceuticals – – –
Asia Pacific/Japan pharmaceuticals 1 2 –
Other trading pharmaceuticals – – –
Pharmaceuticals R&D 118 107 49
Other unallocated pharmaceuticals 124 30 60
Pharmaceuticals impairment 251 142 110
Consumer Healthcare impairment 1 – 2
Segment impairment 252 142 112
Corporate and other unallocated impairment 23 52 –
Impairment before major restructuring 275 194 112
Major restructuring 57 197 106
Total impairment 332 391 218
PP&E and intangible asset impairment reversals by segment 2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
US pharmaceuticals (1) – (1)
Europe pharmaceuticals – – –
Emerging Markets pharmaceuticals – – –
Asia Pacific/Japan pharmaceuticals – – –
Other trading pharmaceuticals – – –
Pharmaceuticals R&D (1) (10) –
Other unallocated pharmaceuticals (9) – (66)
Pharmaceuticals impairment reversals (11) (10) (67)
Consumer Healthcare impairment reversals – – –
Segment impairment reversals (11) (10) (67)
Corporate and other unallocated impairment reversals – (10) –
Impairment reversals before major restructuring (11) (20) (67)
Major restructuring – – –
Total impairment reversals (11) (20) (67)
Geographical information
The UK is regarded as being the Group’s country of domicile.
2008 2007
Turnover by location of customer 2009 (restated) (restated)
£m £m £m
UK 1,852 1,636 1,570
USA 10,201 9,746 10,168
Rest of World 16,315 12,970 10,978
External turnover 28,368 24,352 22,716
2009 2008
Non-current assets by location £m £m
UK 5,266 4,368
USA 7,956 6,264
Rest of World 8,758 8,137
21,980 18,769
Non-current assets by location excludes amounts relating to other investments, deferred tax assets, derivative financial instruments,
pension assets, amounts recoverable under insurance contracts and certain other non-current receivables.
GSK Annual Report 2009281P–19P
stnemetats
laicnaniF
110
Notes to the financial statements
6 Segment information continued
2008
2009 (restated)
Total assets by segment £m £m
US pharmaceuticals 2,536 2,957
Europe pharmaceuticals 2,450 2,538
Emerging Markets pharmaceuticals 1,925 1,303
Asia Pacific/Japan pharmaceuticals 1,278 1,095
Other trading pharmaceuticals 3,804 108
Pharmaceuticals R&D 2,842 3,087
Other unallocated pharmaceuticals 12,956 13,399
Pharmaceuticals operating assets 27,791 24,487
Consumer Healthcare operating assets 3,799 3,859
Segment operating assets 31,590 28,346
Corporate and other unallocated assets 921 680
Total operating assets 32,511 29,026
Investments in associates and joint ventures 895 552
Liquid investments 268 391
Derivative financial instruments 197 963
Cash and cash equivalents 6,545 5,623
Current and deferred taxation 2,432 2,836
Assets held for sale 14 2
Total assets 42,862 39,393
The other unallocated pharmaceuticals segment includes assets for the centrally managed pharmaceutical and vaccine manufacturing
operations, the depreciation on which, totalling £618 million (2008 – £536 million; 2007 – £475 million) is recovered through the
standard cost of product charged to businesses.
7 Major restructuring programme
In October 2007, GSK announced a significant new Operational Excellence programme to improve the effectiveness and productivity of
its operations. A significant expansion of the Operational Excellence programme was approved by the Board and announced in February
2009. A further expansion was approved by the Board and announced in February 2010. Total costs for the implementation of the
expanded programme are expected to increase from £3.6 billion to approximately £4.5 billion, to be incurred over the period from 2007
to 2012. Approximately 50% of these costs were incurred by 31st December 2009, and approximately 30% are expected to be incurred
in 2010 with the balance mostly in 2011. In total, approximately 75% of these costs are expected to be cash expenditures and 25% are
expected to be asset write-downs. Uncertainties exist over the exact amount and timing of cash outflows as a result of potential future
exchange rate fluctuations and as many elements of the restructuring programme are subject to employee consultation procedures,
making it difficult to predict with precision when these procedures will be completed. However, the majority of the remaining cash
payments are expected to be made in 2010 and 2011. The programme is now estimated to deliver total annual pre-tax savings of up
to £2.2 billion by 2012, with savings realised across the business. Of the total restructuring costs of £832 million incurred in 2009,
£761 million was incurred under the Operational Excellence programme in the following areas:
• the closure of a number of manufacturing sites, including Dartford and Crawley in the UK and Cidra in Puerto Rico, giving rise to
asset write-downs and staff reductions;
• t he adoption of more customised sales approaches, leading to staff reductions in a number of sales forces, principally in France;
• c ost saving projects in R&D, focused primarily on the simplification and streamlining of support infrastructure, including some site
rationalisations, and
• p rojects to simplify or eliminate processes, leading to staff reductions in administrative and support functions.
In addition, costs of £71 million were incurred during the year under the restructuring programme related to the integration of the
Stiefel Laboratories, Inc. business in the USA, following its acquisition in July 2009.
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
111
Notes to the financial statements
7 Major restructuring programme continued
The analysis of the costs incurred under these programmes in 2009, 2008 and 2007 is as follows:
Asset Staff Other
2009 impairment reductions costs Total
£m £m £m £m
Cost of sales (41) (112) (132) (285)
Selling, general and administration (1) (337) (54) (392)
Research and development (15) (68) (72) (155)
Effect on operating profit (57) (517) (258) (832)
Net finance expense (3)
Effect on profit before taxation (835)
Effect on taxation 221
Effect on earnings (614)
Asset Staff Other
2008 impairment reductions costs Total
£m £m £m £m
Cost of sales (181) (370) (88) (639)
Selling, general and administration (2) (177) (125) (304)
Research and development (14) (143) (18) (175)
Effect on operating profit (197) (690) (231) (1,118)
Net finance expense (5)
Effect on profit before taxation (1,123)
Effect on taxation 284
Effect on earnings (839)
Asset Staff Other
2007 impairment reductions costs Total
£m £m £m £m
Cost of sales (77) (34) – (111)
Selling, general and administration (1) (136) – (137)
Research and development (28) (62) – (90)
Effect on profit before taxation (106) (232) – (338)
Effect on taxation 77
Effect on earnings (261)
Asset impairments of £57 million (2008 – £197 million, 2007 – £106 million) and other net costs totalling £124 million
(2008 – £137 million, 2007 – £nil) are non-cash items. All other charges have been or will be settled in cash.
These restructuring costs are reported in the major restructuring column of the Income statement on page 94. Other costs related to
minor restructuring activity initiated prior to October 2007 amounting to £4 million (2008 – £20 million) are reported within ‘Results
before major restructuring’.
2009 2008 2007
The costs of the major restructuring programmes have arisen as follows: £m £m £m
Increase in provision for major restructuring programmes (see Note 29) (487) (740) (220)
Amount of provision reversed unused (see Note 29) 15 7 –
Impairments to property, plant and equipment (see Note 17) (57) (197) (106)
Foreign exchange gain/(loss) recognised on liquidation of subsidiary 44 (84) –
Other non-cash charges (168) (53) –
Other cash costs (179) (51) (12)
Net finance expense (3) (5) –
Effect on profit before taxation (835) (1,123) (338)
Other non-cash charges are principally accelerated depreciation arising where asset lives have been shortened as a result of the major
restructuring programmes. Other cash costs include the termination of leases and site closure costs and consultancy and project
management fees.
GSK Annual Report 2009281P–19P
stnemetats
laicnaniF
112
Notes to the financial statements
8 Other operating income
2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Royalty income 296 307 216
Milestone income 90 11 7
Impairment of equity investments (135) (63) (19)
Disposal of equity investments 40 33 32
Disposal of other assets and legal settlements 539 260 181
Gain recognised on creation of ViiV Healthcare 296 – –
Fair value adjustments on derivative financial instruments (5) (10) 41
Other income 14 3 17
1,135 541 475
Royalty and milestone income is principally a core of recurring income from the out-licensing of intellectual property. Fair value
adjustments on derivative financial instruments include movements on the now expired Quest collar and Theravance put and call options.
9 Operating profit
2009 2008 2007
The following items have been included in operating profit: £m £m £m
Employee costs (Note 10) 7,167 6,524 5,733
Advertising 923 805 744
Distribution costs 363 310 270
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 1,130 920 796
Impairment of property, plant and equipment, net of reversals 149 256 97
Amortisation of intangible assets 432 311 226
Impairment of intangible assets, net of reversals 172 115 54
Net foreign exchange losses/(gains) 163 (145) (1)
Inventories:
Cost of inventories included in cost of sales 6,743 5,734 4,784
Write-down of inventories 276 298 265
Reversal of prior year write-down of inventories (116) (118) (103)
Operating lease rentals:
Minimum lease payments 160 143 121
Contingent rents 13 15 13
Sub-lease payments 6 1 2
Fees payable to the company’s auditor and its associates in relation to the Group (see below) 24.1 19.2 16.3
The reversals of prior year write-downs of inventories principally arise from the reassessment of usage or demand expectations prior to
inventory expiration.
2009 2008 2007
Fees payable to the company’s auditor and its associates £m £m £m
Audit of parent company and consolidated financial statements 2.0 1.6 1.8
Audit of accounts of the Group’s UK and overseas subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 10.2 9.3 7.9
Other assurance services, pursuant to legislation, including attestation under s.404
of Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 3.0 2.9 2.9
Audit and assurance services 15.2 13.8 12.6
Other tax services 7.3 2.5 2.5
All other services, including regulatory, compliance and treasury related services 1.6 2.9 1.2
24.1 19.2 16.3
At 31st December 2009, the amount due to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and its associates for fees yet to be invoiced was £4.9 million,
comprising statutory audit £4.4 million, taxation services £0.2 million and other services £0.3 million.
In 2009, fees payable to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and its associates for audit and assurance services remained flat in CER terms.
2009 2008 2007
In addition to the above, fees paid in respect of the GSK pension schemes were: £m £m £m
Audit 0.4 0.4 0.2
Other services – – 0.1
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
113
Notes to the financial statements
10 Employee costs
2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Wages and salaries 5,387 4,640 4,444
Social security costs 661 653 527
Pension and other post-employment costs, including augmentations (Note 28) 491 505 313
Cost of share-based incentive plans 179 241 237
Severance and other costs from integration and restructuring activities 449 485 212
7,167 6,524 5,733
In 2009, wages and salaries increased by 4% in CER terms.
The Group provides benefits to employees, commensurate with local practice in individual countries, including, in some markets,
healthcare insurance, subsidised car schemes and personal life assurance.
2009 2008 2007
The average number of persons employed by the Group (including Directors) during the year: Number Number Number
Manufacturing 31,467 33,372 33,975
Selling, general and administration 53,183 52,115 53,707
Research and development 14,204 15,646 15,719
98,854 101,133 103,401
The average number of Group employees excludes temporary and contract staff. The numbers of Group employees at the end of
each financial year are given in the financial record on page 194. The average number of persons employed by GlaxoSmithKline plc in
2009 was nil (2008 – nil).
The compensation of the Directors and Senior Management (members of the CET) in aggregate, was as follows:
2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Wages and salaries 23 17 16
Social security costs 1 1 1
Pension and other post-employment costs 3 3 3
Cost of share-based incentive plans 4 12 15
31 33 35
11 Finance income
2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Interest income arising from:
cash and cash equivalents 46 107 98
available-for-sale investments 15 31 49
derivatives at fair value through profit or loss (5) 159 79
loans and receivables 11 22 27
Realised gains on liquid investments – 2 1
Fair value adjustments on derivatives at fair value through profit or loss (3) 4 –
Net investment hedge ineffectiveness 4 (13) 7
Unwinding of discounts on assets 2 1 1
70 313 262
All derivatives at fair value through profit or loss other than designated and effective hedging instruments (see Note 41, ‘Financial
instruments and related disclosures’) are classified as held-for-trading financial instruments under IAS 39. Interest income arising from
derivatives at fair value through profit or loss relates to swap interest income.
GSK Annual Report 2009281P–19P
stnemetats
laicnaniF
114
Notes to the financial statements
12 Finance costs
2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Interest expense arising on:
financial liabilities at amortised cost (790) (664) (313)
derivatives at fair value through profit or loss 20 (165) (121)
Fair value hedges:
fair value adjustments on derivatives designated as hedging instruments (37) 92 10
fair value adjustments on hedged items 38 (90) (8)
Fair value adjustments on other derivatives at fair value through profit or loss (2) – 6
Reclassification of cash flow hedge from other comprehensive income (1) – –
Unwinding of discounts on provisions (11) (16) (27)
(783) (843) (453)
All derivatives at fair value through profit or loss except designated and effective hedging instruments are classified as held-for-trading
financial instruments under IAS 39.
13 Associates and joint ventures
2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Associates:
Share of after tax profits of Quest Diagnostics Inc. 73 47 48
Share of after tax profits of Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Limited 2 – –
Share of after tax losses of other associates (3) (3) (3)
72 44 45
Share of after tax (losses)/profits of joint ventures (8) 4 5
64 48 50
Share of turnover of joint ventures 13 13 13
Sales to joint ventures and associates 26 9 9
Summarised income statement information in respect of the Group’s associates is set out below:
2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Total turnover:
Quest Diagnostics Inc. 4,779 3,919 3,352
Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Limited 67 – –
Others 7 3 –
4,853 3,922 3,352
Total profit:
Quest Diagnostics Inc. 467 314 170
Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Limited 12 – –
Others (14) (7) (3)
465 307 167
The results of Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Limited included in the summarised income statement information above represent the
estimated earnings of the Aspen group in the period since becoming an associated undertaking and are based on analysts forecasts.
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
115
Notes to the financial statements
14 Taxation
2009 2008 2007
Taxation charge based on profits for the year £m £m £m
UK corporation tax at the UK statutory rate 600 2,213 791
Less double taxation relief (183) (1,924) (339)
417 289 452
Overseas taxation 1,997 1,589 1,962
Current taxation 2,414 1,878 2,414
Deferred taxation (192) 69 (272)
2,222 1,947 2,142
Additional UK corporation tax and double taxation relief in 2008 arose from dividends received from overseas subsidiaries.
2009 2008 2007
Reconciliation of the taxation rate on Group profits % % %
UK statutory rate of taxation 28.0 28.5 30.0
Differences in overseas taxation rates 3.5 1.9 4.3
Benefit of special tax status (1.8) (2.4) (3.6)
R&D credits (1.9) (1.3) (1.5)
Intercompany stock profit 0.5 2.1 (0.8)
Impact of share based payments 0.1 0.7 0.6
Tax on profit of associates (0.2) (0.4) (0.3)
Other differences (0.3) 1.2 (0.3)
Prior year items 0.1 (1.6) 0.1
Restructuring 0.2 0.5 0.2
Tax rate 28.2 29.2 28.7
2009 2008 2007
Tax on items charged to equity and statement of comprehensive income £m £m £m
Current taxation
Share based payments 1 4 21
Foreign exchange movements 19 15 21
20 19 42
Deferred taxation
Share based payments 13 (5) (17)
Defined benefit plans 183 441 (195)
Fair value movement on cash flow hedges 2 (3) 2
Fair value movements on available-for-sale investments (11) 8 19
187 441 (191)
207 460 (149)
All of the above items have been charged to the statement of comprehensive income except for tax on share based payments.
The Group operates in countries where the tax rate differs from the UK tax rate. The impact of these overseas taxes on the overall rate
of tax is shown above. Profits arising from certain operations in Singapore are accorded special status and are taxed at reduced rates
compared with the normal rates of tax in this territory. The effect of this reduction in the taxation charge increased earnings per share
by 2.8p in 2009, 2.8p in 2008 and 4.9p in 2007. The Group is required under IFRS to create a deferred tax asset in respect of unrealised
intercompany profit arising on inventory held by the Group at the year-end by applying the tax rate of the country in which the inventory
is held (rather than the tax rate of the country where the profit was originally made and the tax paid, which is the practice under UK
and US GAAP). As a result of this difference in accounting treatment the Group tax rate on current period intercompany profit under IFRS
increased by 0.5% in 2009 (2008 – 2.1% increase; 2007 – 0.8% decrease) arising from changes in the location of work-in-progress and
finished goods.
The integrated nature of the Group’s worldwide operations, involving significant investment in research and strategic manufacture at a
limited number of locations, with consequential cross-border supply routes into numerous end-markets, gives rise to complexity and delay
in negotiations with revenue authorities as to the profits on which individual Group companies are liable to tax. Resolution of such issues
is a continuing fact of life for GSK.
GSK Annual Report 2009281P–19P
stnemetats
laicnaniF
116
Notes to the financial statements
14 Taxation continued
Following its audit of the period 2001 to 2003, the IRS issued Statutory Notices of Deficiency to GSK asserting income and withholding tax
deficiencies, and associated penalties, arising from the IRS’s reclassification of an intercompany financing arrangement in those years from
debt to equity, and its consequent recharacterisation of the amounts paid as dividends subject to withholding tax under the US – UK treaty.
All amounts due under the financing arrangement were paid on a timely basis, with the final payment made in April 2008. GSK disagreed
with the IRS’s position and, in August 2008, initiated actions in the United States Tax Court to contest the Statutory Notices of Deficiency.
On 19th November 2009, GSK and the IRS filed a Stipulation with the Tax Court in which the IRS conceded all asserted tax deficiencies and
penalties arising from its reclassification of the above intercompany financing arrangement from debt to equity, resulting in no additional tax
cost to GSK. The IRS claim had previously been estimated at $864m for 2001-2003. GSK and the IRS are now in the process of finalising the
tax computations for the 2001 to 2003 tax years. It is anticipated that resolution of the issue in the years 2004 to 2008 will be reflected in a
closing agreement. Resolution of the issue had no impact on the Group’s results.
In Canada, GSK is continuing to contest a court decision in respect of transfer pricing in the early 1990s. The date of the appeal hearing
has been set for March 2010. GSK continues to believe that it has made adequate provision for the liabilities likely to arise from periods
which are open and not yet agreed by tax authorities. The ultimate liability for such matters may vary from the amounts provided and is
dependent upon the outcome of litigation where appropriate or by agreement with the relevant tax authorities.
No provision has been made for taxation which would arise on the distribution of profits retained by overseas subsidiaries, on the grounds
that the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of these temporary differences and it is probable that they will not reverse in
the foreseeable future. The aggregate amount of these unremitted profits at the balance sheet date was approximately £29 billion
(2008 – £28 billion). The introduction of the UK dividend exemption on 1st July 2009, now enables the reasonable quantification of the
incremental liability from repatriation of profits to the UK. The deferred tax on unremitted earnings at 31st December 2009 is estimated to be
approximately £500 million, which relates to taxes payable on repatriation and dividend withholding taxes levied by overseas tax jurisdictions.
Payable Recoverable Net
Movement on current tax account £m £m £m
At 1st January 2009 (780) 76 (704)
Exchange adjustments 12 1 13
Charge for the year (2,056) (358) (2,414)
Cash paid 1,393 311 1,704
Other movements (20) 28 8
At 31st December 2009 (1,451 ) 58 (1,393)
Movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities
Pensions & Manu- Share Other
Accelerated Intra- other post Legal facturing Stock option net Offset
Deferred taxation capital group retirement Tax & other restruct- valuation and award temporary within
allowances Intangibles profit benefits losses disputes uring adjustments schemes differences countries Total
assets/(liabilities)
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Deferred tax assets at
1st January 2009 23 152 1,234 1,062 196 249 162 15 102 830 (1,265) 2,760
Deferred tax liabilities at
1st January 2009 (726) (970) – – (23) – – (247) – (13) 1,265 (714)
At 1st January 2009 (703) (818) 1,234 1,062 173 249 162 (232) 102 817 – 2,046
Exchange adjustments 15 36 (45) (87) (13) (28) (7) 22 – (59) – (166)
Credit/(charge) to income –
statement 89 74 (6) (113) (52) 82 (11) 52 11 66 – 192
Credit/(charge) to equity – – – – – – – – 13 – – 13
Credit/(charge) to statement of
comprehensive income – – – 183 – – – – – (9) – 174
Acquisitions (5) (591) – (2) 75 – 13 (10) – (10) – (530)
At 31st December 2009 (604) (1,299) 1,183 1,043 183 303 157 (168) 126 805 – 1,729
Deferred tax assets at
31st December 2009 24 177 1,183 1,043 211 303 157 30 126 822 (1,702) 2,374
Deferred tax liabilities at
31st December 2009 (628) (1,476) – – (28) – – (198) – (17) 1,702 (645)
(604) (1,299) 1,183 1,043 183 303 157 (168) 126 805 – 1,729
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
117
Notes to the financial statements
14 Taxation continued
The deferred tax charge to income relating to changes in tax rates is £9 million. All other deferred tax movements arise from the
origination and reversal of temporary differences. Other net temporary differences include accrued expenses and other provisions.
At 31st December 2009, the Group had recognised a deferred tax asset of £183 million (2008 – £173 million) in respect of income
tax losses of approximately £617 million (2008 – £566 million). Of these losses, £76 million (2008 – £142 million) are due to expire
between 2010–2019, £445 million (2008 – £357 million) are due to expire between 2020–2029 and £96 million (2008 – £67 million)
are available indefinitely. At 31st December 2009, the Group had not recognised any deferred tax asset in respect of income tax losses of
approximately £4,397 million (2008 – £4,526 million), of which £34 million (2008 – £37 million) are due to expire between 2010–2019,
£159 million (2008 – £66 million) are due to expire between 2020–2029 and £4,204 million (2008 – £4,423 million) which are available
indefinitely. The Group had capital losses at 31st December 2009 of approximately £4.3 billion in respect of which no deferred tax asset
has been recognised. Deferred tax assets are recognised where it is probable that future taxable profit will be available to utilise losses.
Factors affecting the tax charge in future years
As a global organisation there are many factors which could affect the future effective tax rate of the Group. The mix of profits across
different territories, transfer pricing and other disputes with tax authorities and the location of research and development activity can all
have a significant impact on the Group’s effective tax rate.
Changes to tax legislation in territories where GSK has business operations could also impact the Group’s effective tax rate. The UK tax
authorities have proposed some significant changes to the UK taxation system. In December 2009 the UK Government announced that
it intends to introduce a Patent Box regime applying a reduced rate of corporation tax to income from patents. The changes are expected
to have effect from April 2013, following a period of consultation. The UK Government also continues to consult with business on
proposed changes to the Controlled Foreign Company regime. These changes are expected to be enacted in 2011.
15 Earnings per share
2009 2008 2007
pence pence pence
Basic earnings per share 109.1 88.6 94.4
Adjustment for major restructuring 12.1 16.1 4.7
Basic earnings per share before major restructuring 121.2 104.7 99.1
Diluted earnings per share 108.2 88.1 93.7
Adjustment for major restructuring 12.1 16.0 4.6
Diluted earnings per share before major restructuring 120.3 104.1 98.3
Basic and adjusted earnings per share have been calculated by dividing the profit attributable to shareholders by the weighted average
number of shares in issue during the period after deducting shares held by the ESOP Trusts and Treasury shares.
Adjusted earnings per share is calculated using results before major restructuring earnings. The calculation of results before major
restructuring is described in Note 1 ‘Presentation of the financial statements’.
Diluted earnings per share have been calculated after adjusting the weighted average number of shares used in the basic calculation
to assume the conversion of all potentially dilutive shares. A potentially dilutive share forms part of the employee share schemes where
its exercise price is below the average market price of GSK shares during the period and any performance conditions attaching to the
scheme have been met at the balance sheet date.
The numbers of shares used in calculating basic and diluted earnings per share are reconciled below.
Weighted average number of shares in issue 2009 2008 2007
millions millions millions
Basic 5,069 5,195 5,524
Dilution for share options 39 31 43
Diluted 5,108 5,226 5,567
Shares held by the ESOP Trusts are excluded. The trustees have waived their rights to dividends on the shares held by the ESOP Trusts.
GSK Annual Report 2009281P–19P
stnemetats
laicnaniF
118
Notes to the financial statements
16 Dividends
2009 First interim Second interim Third interim Fourth interim Total
Total dividend (£m) 701 713 763 913 3,090
Dividend per share (pence) 14 14 15 18 61
Paid/payable 9th July 2009 8th October 2009 7th January 2010 8th April 2010
2008
Total dividend (£m) 683 679 730 859 2,951
Dividend per share (pence) 13 13 14 17 57
Paid 10th July 2008 9th October 2008 8th January 2009 9th April 2009
2007
Total dividend (£m) 670 667 708 859 2,904
Dividend per share (pence) 12 12 13 16 53
Paid 12th July 2007 11th October 2007 10th January 2008 10th April 2008
Under IFRS interim dividends are only recognised in the financial statements when paid and not when declared. GSK normally pays a
dividend two quarters after the quarter to which it relates and one quarter after it is declared. The 2009 financial statements recognise
those dividends paid in 2009, namely the third and fourth interim dividends for 2008 and the first and second interim dividends for 2009.
The amounts recognised in each year are as follows:
2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Dividends to shareholders 3,003 2,929 2,793
17 Property, plant and equipment
Plant,
Land and equipment Assets in
buildings and vehicles construction Total
£m £m £m £m
Cost at 1st January 2008 4,634 8,497 1,956 15,087
Exchange adjustments 1,046 1,471 442 2,959
Additions 124 425 895 1,444
Additions through business combinations 13 7 – 20
Disposals and write-offs (128) (356) (27) (511)
Reclassifications 292 643 (944) (9)
Transfer to assets held for sale (2) (1) – (3)
Cost at 31st December 2008 5,979 10,686 2,322 18,987
Exchange adjustments (343) (493) (154) (990)
Additions 188 432 803 1,423
Additions through business combinations 67 76 8 151
Capitalised borrowing costs – – 1 1
Disposals and write-offs (184) (614) (5) (803)
Reclassifications 309 430 (735) 4
Transfer to assets held for sale (14) (2) – (16)
Cost at 31st December 2009 6,002 10,515 2,240 18,757
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
119
Notes to the financial statements
17 Property, plant and equipment continued
Plant,
Land and equipment Assets in
buildings and vehicles construction Total
£m £m £m £m
Depreciation at 1st January 2008 (1,534) (5,290) – (6,824)
Exchange adjustments (385) (914) – (1,299)
Provision for the year (228) (692) – (920)
Disposals and write-offs 85 265 – 350
Transfer to assets held for sale – 1 – 1
Depreciation at 31st December 2008 (2,062) (6,630) – (8,692)
Exchange adjustments 128 312 – 440
Provision for the year (283) (847) – (1,130)
Disposals and write-offs 129 478 – 607
Transfer to assets held for sale 1 1 – 2
Depreciation at 31st December 2009 (2,087) (6,686) – (8,773)
Impairment at 1st January 2008 (122) (239) (81) (442)
Exchange adjustments (22) (27) (14) (63)
Disposals and write-offs 50 67 27 144
Impairment losses (70) (176) (20) (266)
Reclassifications – (44) 44 –
Reversal of impairments 3 7 – 10
Impairment at 31st December 2008 (161) (412) (44) (617)
Exchange adjustments 6 10 4 20
Disposals and write-offs 28 104 4 136
Impairment losses (27) (108) (25) (160)
Reversal of impairments 1 10 – 11
Impairment at 31st December 2009 (153) (396) (61) (610)
Total depreciation and impairment at 31st December 2008 (2,223) (7,042) (44) (9,309)
Total depreciation and impairment at 31st December 2009 (2,240) (7,082) (61) (9,383)
Net book value at 1st January 2008 2,978 2,968 1,875 7,821
Net book value at 31st December 2008 3,756 3,644 2,278 9,678
Net book value at 31st December 2009 3,762 3,433 2,179 9,374
The net book value at 31st December 2009 of the Group’s land and buildings comprises freehold properties £3,462 million
(2008 – £3,510 million), properties with leases of 50 years or more £239 million (2008 – £185 million) and properties with leases of
less than 50 years £61 million (2008 – £61 million).
Included in land and buildings at 31st December 2009 are leased assets with a cost of £561 million (2008 – £519 million),
accumulated depreciation of £261 million (2008 – £263 million), impairment of £nil (2008 – £8 million) and a net book value of
£300 million (2008 – £248 million). Included in plant, equipment and vehicles at 31st December 2009 are leased assets with a cost
of £126 million (2008 – £77 million), accumulated depreciation of £44 million (2008 – £36 million), and a net book value of
£82 million (2008 – £41 million). Some lease agreements include renewal or purchase options or escalation clauses.
The impairment losses principally arise from decisions to rationalise facilities and are calculated based on either fair value less costs to sell
or value in use. The value in use calculations determine the net present value of the projected risk-adjusted, post-tax cash flows of the
relevant asset or cash generating unit, applying a discount rate of the Group post-tax weighted average cost of capital (WACC) of 8%,
adjusted where appropriate for country specific risks. Where an impairment is indicated and a pre-tax cash flow calculation is expected
to give a materially different result, the test would be reperformed using pre-tax cash flows and a pre-tax discount rate. The Group
WACC is equivalent to a pre-tax discount rate of approximately 11%. The impairment losses have been charged to cost of sales
(£95 million), R&D (£47 million) and SG&A (£18 million), and include £57 million (2008 – £197 million) arising from the major
restructuring programmes.
Reversals of impairment arise from subsequent reviews of the impaired assets where the conditions which gave rise to the original
impairments are deemed no longer to apply. All of the reversals have been credited to cost of sales.
GSK Annual Report 2009281P–19P
stnemetats
laicnaniF
120
Notes to the financial statements
18 Goodwill
2009 2008
£m £m
Cost at 1st January 2,101 1,370
Exchange adjustments (116) 437
Additions through business combinations 1,376 294
Cost at 31st December 3,361 2,101
Net book value at 1st January 2,101 1,370
Net book value at 31st December 3,361 2,101
The additions in the year, translated at acquisition exchange rates, arise on acquisition of the following businesses:
£m
Stiefel Laboratories Inc. 885
Pfizer HIV business 255
UCB S.A. 87
NovaMin Technology Inc. 53
AZ Tika 50
Laboratoire Pharmaceutique Algérien 35
Others 11
1,376
See Note 38, ‘Acquisitions and disposals’ for further details.
The carrying value of goodwill, translated at year-end exchange rates, is made up of balances arising on acquisition of the
following businesses:
2009 2008
Cash generating unit £m £m
Stiefel Laboratories, Inc. Stiefel Laboratories Inc. 901 –
Reliant Pharmaceuticals, Inc. US pharmaceuticals 434 485
ID Biomedical Corporation Five pharmaceutical segments 426 404
Sirtris Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Five pharmaceutical segments 294 329
Pfizer HIV business ViiV Healthcare group 255 –
GlaxoSmithKline K.K. Japan pharmaceuticals 208 238
Domantis Limited Five pharmaceutical segments 181 181
CNS, Inc. Consumer Healthcare 137 153
Polfa Poznan S.A. Poland pharmaceuticals 118 128
Certain businesses from UCB S.A. Emerging Markets and Asia Pacific/Japan pharmaceuticals 87 –
NovaMin Technology Inc. Consumer Healthcare 50 –
Others 270 183
3,361 2,101
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
121
Notes to the financial statements
18 Goodwill continued
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units which are tested for impairment at least annually. Following the implementation of
IFRS 8 ‘Operating segments’ in 2009 the cash generating units to which some of the goodwill balances are allocated have changed.
The goodwill arising on the acquisitions of ID Biomedical, Sirtris Pharmaceuticals and Domantis has been split between the five
pharmaceutical segments (USA, Europe, Emerging Markets, Asia Pacific/Japan and Other) for impairment testing purposes as either the
benefit of the acquired businesses is split among the five pharmaceutical segments or they do not generate independent cash flows.
The valuation of the US pharmaceuticals cash generating unit for Reliant Pharmaceuticals has been prepared on a fair value less costs
to sell basis, using turnover and earnings multiples derived from observed market data. The value of goodwill inherent in the US
pharmaceuticals cash generating unit is considerably in excess of the book value of the acquired goodwill.
The recoverable amounts of the other cash generating units are assessed using either a value in use or a fair value less costs to sell model.
Value in use is calculated as the net present value of the projected risk-adjusted post-tax cash flows plus a terminal value of the cash
generating unit to which the goodwill is allocated. Initially a post-tax discount rate is applied to calculate the net present value of the
post-tax cash flows. The post-tax discount rate used is based on the Group WACC of 8%, as most cash generating units have integrated
operations across large parts of the Group. The Group WACC is equivalent to a pre-tax discount rate of approximately 11%. The discount
rate is increased where specific country risks are sufficiently significant to have a material impact on the outcome of the impairment test.
Where the impairment test indicates that the recoverable value of the unit is close to or below its carrying value, the test is reperformed
using a pre-tax discount rate and pre-tax cash flows in order to determine if an impairment exists and to establish its magnitude.
Fair value is calculated using a similar discounted cash flow approach based on the Group’s acquisition valuation model.
A post-tax discount rate is applied to the projected risk-adjusted post-tax cash flows and terminal value.
Details relating to the discounted cash flow models used in the impairment tests of the other significant goodwill balances are as follows:
Stiefel Laboratories CGU ViiV Healthcare CGU Five pharmaceutical segments CGUs
Valuation basis Fair value less costs to sell Fair value less costs to sell Value in use
Key assumptions Sales growth rates Sales growth rates Sales growth rates
Profit margins Profit margins Profit margins
Achievement of synergy targets Discount rate Discount rate
Discount rate
Determination of Growth rates are internal Growth rates are internal Growth rates are internal forecasts
assumptions forecasts based on both internal forecasts based on both internal based on both internal and
and external market information. and external market information. external market information.
Margins reflect past experience, Margins reflect past experience, Margins reflect past experience,
adjusted for expected changes. adjusted for expected changes. adjusted for expected changes.
Post-acquisition synergy targets Discount rate based on Discount rate based on
reflect management expectations Group WACC. Group WACC.
of cost savings that can be
achieved.
Discount rate based on
Group WACC.
Period of specific
projected cash flows 10 years 20 years 5 years
Discount rate 8% 8% 8%
Terminal growth rate 2% p.a. 2% p.a. 2% p.a.
GSK Annual Report 2009281P–19P
stnemetats
laicnaniF
122
Notes to the financial statements
18 Goodwill continued
Japan Pharmaceuticals CGU Consumer Healthcare CGU Poland Pharmaceuticals CGU
for GlaxoSmithKline KK for CNS for Polfa Poznan
Valuation basis Fair value less costs to sell Fair value less costs to sell Value in use
Key assumptions Sales growth rates Sales growth rates Sales growth rates
Profit margins Advertising and promotion Profit margins
Discount rate investment Discount rate
Terminal growth rate
Discount rate
Determination of Growth rates are internal Growth rates are internal Growth rates are internal
assumptions forecasts based on both internal forecasts based on both internal forecasts based on both internal
and external market information. and external market information. and external market information.
Margins reflect past experience, Advertising and promotion Margins reflect past experience,
adjusted for expected changes. investment based on historical adjusted for expected changes.
Discount rate based on levels adjusted for management’s Discount rate based on Group
Group WACC. view of support needed for WACC, adjusted for country-
innovation and expansion. specific risks.
Terminal growth rate based on
management’s estimate of future
long-term average growth rates.
Discount rate based on
Group WACC.
Period of specific
projected cash flows 5 years 4 years 5 years
Discount rate 8% 8% 9.75%
Terminal growth rate 2% p.a. 3% p.a. 13% p.a. decline.
The terminal growth rates do not exceed the long-term projected growth rates for the relevant markets. The terminal growth rate used
in the value in use calculation for the Poland Pharmaceuticals cash generating unit reflects the impact of future generic competition
and takes no account of new product launches. The Consumer Healthcare cash generating unit comprises a collection of smaller cash
generating units including brands with indefinite lives with a carrying value of £1,796 million (2008 – £1,794 million). The Stiefel
Laboratories cash generating unit also comprises a collection of smaller cash generating units including assets with indefinite lives with
a carrying value of £660 million. Details of indefinite life brands are given in Note 19 ‘Other intangible assets’.
In each case the valuations indicate sufficient headroom such that a reasonably possible change to key assumptions is unlikely to result
in an impairment of the related goodwill.
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
123
Notes to the financial statements
19 Other intangible assets
Computer Licences, Amortised Indefinite life
software patents, etc. brands brands Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Cost at 1st January 2008 801 3,393 266 1,353 5,813
Exchange adjustments 110 738 65 371 1,284
Capitalised internal development costs 27 – – – 27
Additions through business combinations – 171 – – 171
Other additions 58 492 – 99 649
Disposals and asset write-offs (2) – – – (2)
Transfer to assets held for sale 9 – – – 9
Cost at 31st December 2008 1,003 4,794 331 1,823 7,951
Exchange adjustments (36) (193) (23) (99) (351)
Capitalised internal development costs 13 – – – 13
Additions through business combinations 30 1,883 51 758 2,722
Other additions 41 391 – – 432
Disposals and asset write-offs (17) (26) – – (43)
Reclassifications (4) – – – (4)
Cost at 31st December 2009 1,030 6,849 359 2,482 10,720
Amortisation at 1st January 2008 (530) (622) (10) – (1,162)
Exchange adjustments (75) (168) (3) – (246)
Provision for the year (96) (204) (11) – (311)
Disposals and asset write-offs 3 (1) – – 2
Amortisation at 31st December 2008 (698) (995) (24) – (1,717)
Exchange adjustments 27 58 – – 85
Provision for the year (113) (306) (13) – (432)
Disposals and asset write-offs 16 1 – – 17
Amortisation at 31st December 2009 (768) (1,242) (37) – (2,047)
Impairment at 1st January 2008 (24) (150) – (21) (195)
Exchange adjustments (1) (46) – (8) (55)
Impairment losses (7) (118) – – (125)
Reversal of impairments – 10 – – 10
Impairment at 31st December 2008 (32) (304) – (29) (365)
Exchange adjustments 1 19 – 3 23
Impairment losses (4) (168) – – (172)
Disposals and asset write-offs 2 22 – – 24
Impairment at 31st December 2009 (33) (431) – (26) (490)
Total amortisation and impairment at 31st December 2008 (730) (1,299) (24) (29) (2,082)
Total amortisation and impairment at 31st December 2009 (801) (1,673) (37) (26) (2,537)
Net book value at 1st January 2008 247 2,621 256 1,332 4,456
Net book value at 31st December 2008 273 3,495 307 1,794 5,869
Net book value at 31st December 2009 229 5,176 322 2,456 8,183
GSK Annual Report 2009281P–19P
stnemetats
laicnaniF
124
Notes to the financial statements
19 Other intangible assets continued
Amortisation and impairment losses, net of reversals, have been charged in the income statement as follows:
Amortisation Net impairment losses
2009 2008 2009 2008
£m £m £m £m
Cost of sales 29 34 1 –
Selling, general and administration 270 181 1 25
Research and development 133 96 170 90
432 311 172 115
The net book value of computer software includes £80 million (2008 – £125 million) of internally generated costs.
Licences, patents, etc. includes a large number of acquired licences, patents, know-how agreements and marketing rights, which are
either marketed or in use, or still in development. The net book value includes £6 million (2008 – £7 million) of internally generated
costs. Impairment losses of £168 million (2008 – £118 million) principally arise on assets in development that are no longer being actively
pursued. Note 38, ‘Acquisitions and disposals’ gives details of additions through business combinations in the year. The book values of
the largest individual items are as follows:
2009 2008
£m £m
Fluviral 648 654
Lovaza 637 781
Selzentry 337 –
Arzerra 191 156
Duac 165 –
Fraxiparine 158 180
Others 3,040 1,724
5,176 3,495
Amortised brands include OTC rights relating to alli, with a book value at 31st December 2009 of £260 million (2008 – £294 million).
Indefinite life brands comprise a portfolio of Consumer Healthcare products primarily acquired with the acquisitions of Sterling Winthrop,
Inc. in 1994, Block Drug Company, Inc. in 2001 and CNS, Inc. in 2006, together with a number of pharmaceutical brands from the
acquisition of Stiefel Laboratories, Inc. in 2009. The book values of the major brands are as follows:
2009 2008
£m £m
Panadol 399 411
Sensodyne 271 289
Stiefel trade name 209 –
Breathe Right 193 216
Physiogel 176 –
Polident 115 123
Corega 102 109
Biotene 108 99
Poligrip 71 75
Solpadeine 59 60
Others 753 412
2,456 1,794
Each of these brands is considered to have an indefinite life, given the strength and durability of the brand and the level of marketing
support. The brands are in relatively similar stable and profitable market sectors, with similar risk profiles, and their size, diversification and
market shares mean that the risk of market-related factors causing a reduction in the lives of the brands is considered to be relatively low.
The Group is not aware of any material legal, regulatory, contractual, competitive, economic or other factor which could limit their useful
lives. Accordingly, they are not amortised.
Each brand is tested annually for impairment applying a fair value less costs to sell methodology, generally using four year post-tax
cash flow forecasts with a terminal value calculation and a discount rate equal to the Group post-tax WACC of 8%, adjusted where
appropriate for country-specific risks. The main assumptions include future sales price and volume growth, product contribution and
the future expenditure required to maintain the product’s marketability and registration in the relevant jurisdictions. These assumptions
are based on past experience and are reviewed as part of management’s budgeting and strategic planning cycle for changes in market
conditions and sales erosion through competition. The terminal growth rates applied of between 2% and 3% are management’s
estimates of future long-term average growth rates of the relevant markets. In each case the valuations indicate sufficient headroom such
that a reasonably possible change to key assumptions is unlikely to result in an impairment of these brands.
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
125
Notes to the financial statements
20 Investments in associates and joint ventures
Joint Associated 2009 Joint Associated 2008
ventures undertakings Total ventures undertakings Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1st January 28 524 552 15 314 329
Exchange adjustments (3) (44) (47) 6 131 137
Additions 36 312 348 6 3 9
Disposals – (69) (69) – – –
Transfer from other investments – 56 56 – 39 39
Fair value adjustment – 8 8 – 3 3
Retained (loss)/profit for the year (15) 62 47 1 34 35
At 31st December 46 849 895 28 524 552
The Group held two significant associated undertakings at 31st December 2009.
Quest Diagnostics Inc., a US clinical laboratory business listed on the New York Stock Exchange. The investment had a book value at
31st December 2009 of £410 million (2008 – £463 million) and a market value of £1,153 million (2008 – £1,316 million).
At 31st December 2009, the Group owned 16.8% of Quest (2008 – 18.7%). During the year, the Group sold 5.7 million shares in
Quest, realising a profit of £115 million. Although the Group holds less than 20% of the ownership interest and voting control in Quest,
the Group has the ability to exercise significant influence through both its significant shareholding and its nominated director’s active
participation on the Quest Board of Directors and Board sub-committees.
In November 2009, GSK increased its shareholding in Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Limited by acquiring 68.5 million shares in
consideration for the transfer of certain assets. GSK’s shareholding in Aspen on 31st December 2009 was 81.7 million shares or 19%.
Aspen, listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange, is Africa’s largest pharmaceutical manufacturer and a major supplier of branded
and generic pharmaceutical, healthcare and nutritional products to the southern African and selected international markets.
After elimination of unrealised gains, the investment had a book value at 31st December 2009 of £372 million, including estimated
goodwill of £259 million. The market value of the shares held by GSK at 31st December 2009 was £505 million. Although the Group
holds less than 20% of the ownership interest and voting control of Aspen, the Group has the ability to exercise significant influence
through both its shareholding and its nominated director’s active participation on the Aspen Board of Directors.
The transfer from other investments in 2009 relates to the Group’s holding in Aspen, previously classified within Other investments.
In August 2009, GSK invested £20 million to establish a 40% interest in Shenzhen GlaxoSmithKline – Neptunus Biologicals Co., Ltd,
a new joint venture primarily operating in the fields of research, development and manufacture of flu vaccines.
During 2009, GSK made additional capital contributions totalling £16 million to Shionogi-GlaxoSmithKline Holdings, L.P.
Summarised balance sheet information in respect of the Group’s associates is set out below:
2009 2008
£m £m
Total assets:
Quest Diagnostics Inc. 5,319 5,836
Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Limited 1,318 –
Others 121 115
6,758 5,951
Total liabilities:
Quest Diagnostics Inc. (2,828) (3,333)
Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Limited (689) –
Others (19) (20)
(3,536) (3,353)
Net assets 3,222 2,598
The summarised balance sheet information in respect of Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Limited is based on analysts forecasts available at
31st December 2009.
Investments in joint ventures comprise £57 million share of gross assets (2008 – £36 million) and £11 million share of gross liabilities
(2008 – £8 million). These principally arise from 50% interests in two joint ventures, Shionogi-GlaxoSmithKline Holdings, L.P., which is
developing specified chemical compounds, and GlaxoSmithKline Shire Canada, which primarily co-markets Combivir, Trizivir and Epivir in
certain territories, both of which are now part of the ViiV Healthcare business. Investments in joint ventures also include a 28% interest
in Pharmaceutical Insurance Limited, which is a mutual insurance company covering pharmaceutical business risk, and a 40% interest in
GlaxoSmithKline - NeptunusBio, which is a flu vaccine research, development and manufacturing venture.
GSK Annual Report 2009281P–19P
stnemetats
laicnaniF
126
Notes to the financial statements
21 Other investments
2009 2008
£m £m
At 1st January 478 517
Exchange adjustments (48) 129
Additions 175 87
Net fair value movements 57 (94)
Impairment losses (95) (65)
Transfer to investments in associates and joint ventures (56) (39)
Disposals (57) (57)
At 31st December 454 478
Other investments comprise non-current equity investments which are available-for-sale investments recorded at fair value at each
balance sheet date. For investments traded in an active market, the fair value is determined by reference to the relevant stock exchange
quoted bid price. For other investments, the fair value is estimated by reference to the current market value of similar instruments or by
reference to the discounted cash flows of the underlying net assets. The Group holds a number of equity investments in entities where
the Group has entered into research collaborations. Other investments include listed investments of £245 million (2008 – £319 million).
On disposal of investments, fair value movements are reclassified from reserves to the income statement based on average cost for shares
acquired at different times.
The impairment losses recorded in the tables above have been recognised in the income statement for the year within other operating
income, together with amounts reclassified from the fair value reserve on recognition of the impairments. These impairments initially
result from prolonged or significant declines in the fair value of the equity investments below acquisition cost, subsequent to which any
further declines in fair value are immediately taken to the income statement. At 31st December 2009 impaired assets with a fair value of
£105 million (2008 – £118 million) are included in other investments.
The transfer to associates relates to the Group’s holding in Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Limited, which increased during the year to 19%.
22 Other non-current assets
2009 2008
£m £m
Amounts recoverable under insurance contracts 299 293
Pension schemes in surplus 23 39
Other receivables 261 247
583 579
23 Inventories
2009 2008
£m £m
Raw materials and consumables 1,153 1,127
Work in progress 1,437 1,295
Finished goods 1,474 1,634
4,064 4,056
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
127
Notes to the financial statements
24 Trade and other receivables
2009 2008
£m £m
Trade receivables 5,486 5,333
Prepaid pension contributions 1 1
Other prepayments and accrued income 301 294
Interest receivable 20 39
Employee loans and advances 48 63
Other receivables 636 535
6,492 6,265
Trade receivables include £32 million (2008 – £4 million) due from associates and joint ventures.
Bad and doubtful debt provision 2009 2008
£m £m
At 1st January 129 98
Exchange adjustments (10) 29
Charge for the year 21 21
Subsequent recoveries of amounts provided for (18) (15)
Utilised (6) (4)
At 31st December 116 129
25 Cash and cash equivalents
2009 2008
£m £m
Cash at bank and in hand 856 652
Short-term deposits 5,689 4,971
6,545 5,623
26 Assets held for sale
2009 2008
£m £m
Land and buildings 13 2
Plant, equipment and vehicles 1 –
14 2
GSK Annual Report 2009281P–19P
stnemetats
laicnaniF
128
Notes to the financial statements
27 Trade and other payables
2009 2008
£m £m
Trade payables 1,855 1,153
Wages and salaries 1,089 946
Social security 125 148
Other payables 280 233
Deferred income 156 103
Customer return and rebate accruals 1,379 1,337
Other accruals 1,888 2,155
6,772 6,075
Customer return and rebate accruals are provided for by the Group at the point of sale in respect of the estimated rebates, discounts or
allowances payable to customers, principally in the USA. Provisions are made at the time of sale but the actual amounts paid are based on
claims made some time after the initial recognition of the sale. As the amounts are estimated they may not fully reflect the final outcome
and the amounts are subject to change dependent upon, amongst other things, the types of buying group and product sales mix. The level
of provision is reviewed and adjusted quarterly in the light of historical experience of actual rebates, discounts or allowances given and
returns made and any changes in arrangements. Future events could cause the assumptions on which the provisions are based to change,
which could affect the future results of the Group.
28 Pensions and other post-employment benefits
2009 2008 2007
Pension and other post-employment costs £m £m £m
UK pension schemes 206 236 108
US pension schemes 94 60 24
Other overseas pensions schemes 101 87 89
Unfunded post-retirement healthcare schemes 90 118 90
Other post-employment costs – 4 2
491 505 313
Analysed as:
Funded defined benefit/hybrid pension schemes 338 318 171
Unfunded defined benefit pension schemes 25 23 17
Unfunded post-retirement healthcare schemes 90 118 90
Defined benefit schemes 453 459 278
Defined contribution pension schemes 38 42 33
Other post-employment costs – 4 2
491 505 313
The costs of the defined benefit pension and post-retirement healthcare schemes are charged in the income statement as follows:
Cost of sales 121 179 72
Selling, general and administration 195 160 129
Research and development 137 120 77
453 459 278
GSK entities operate pension arrangements which cover the Group’s material obligations to provide pensions to retired employees.
These arrangements have been developed in accordance with local practices in the countries concerned. Pension benefits can be provided
by state schemes; by defined contribution schemes, whereby retirement benefits are determined by the value of funds arising from
contributions paid in respect of each employee; or by defined benefit schemes, whereby retirement benefits are based on employee
pensionable remuneration and length of service. Some ‘hybrid’ defined benefit schemes also include defined contribution sections.
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
129
Notes to the financial statements
28 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
Pension costs of defined benefit schemes for accounting purposes have been calculated using the projected unit method. In certain
countries pension benefits are provided on an unfunded basis, some administered by trustee companies. Formal, independent, actuarial
valuations of the Group’s main plans are undertaken regularly, normally at least every three years.
Actuarial movements in the year are recognised through the statement of comprehensive income. Discount rates are derived from AA
rated corporate bond yields except in countries where there is no deep market in corporate bonds where government bond yields are
used. Discount rates are selected to reflect the term of the expected benefit payments. The expected rate of return on bonds reflects
the portfolio mix of index-linked, government and corporate bonds. An equity risk premium of between 3% and 4% is added to longer
term government bond yields to give the expected rate of return on equities. Projected inflation rate and pension increases are long-term
predictions based on the yield gap between long-term index-linked and fixed interest Gilts. In the UK, mortality rates are determined
by adjusting the PCA00 standard mortality tables to reflect recent scheme experience. These rates are then projected to reflect
improvements in life expectancy in line with the medium cohort (i.e. improvements at recently observed higher levels which are assumed
to continue to 2020) with minimum improvements thereafter of 1% per year for males and 0.5% for females. In the USA, mortality rates
are calculated using the RP2000 fully generational table, projected using scale AA, with the white collar adjustment.
The average life expectancy assumed now for an individual at the age of 60 and projected to apply in 2029 for an individual then at the
age of 60 is as follows:
UK USA
Male Female Male Female
Years Years Years Years
Current 27.3 28.2 24.5 26.2
Projected for 2029 29.6 29.5 26.4 27.3
The assets of funded schemes are generally held in separately administered trusts, either as specific assets or as a proportion of a
general fund, or are insurance contracts. Assets are invested in different classes in order to maintain a balance between risk and return.
Investments are diversified to limit the financial effect of the failure of any individual investment. Following an asset liability study in 2007,
the Group decided to adopt a strategy to reduce gradually the allocation of investment in equities. During 2009, it was agreed that the
pace of reallocation would be increased primarily through investment of the deficit reduction contributions in bonds. The target allocation
of equities and property in the US scheme has been reduced to 50% of the total.
In the UK the defined benefit pension schemes operated for the benefit of former Glaxo Wellcome employees and former SmithKline
Beecham employees remain separate. These schemes were closed to new entrants in 2001 and subsequent UK employees are entitled
to join a defined contribution scheme. In the USA the former Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham defined benefit schemes were
merged during 2001. In addition, the Group operates a number of post-retirement healthcare schemes, the principal one of which is in
the USA.
The Group has applied the following financial assumptions in assessing the defined benefit liabilities:
UK USA Rest of World
2009 2008 2007 2009 2008 2007 2009 2008 2007
% pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa
Rate of increase of future earnings 4.60 3.90 4.25 4.50 4.50 5.00 3.00 3.10 3.25
Discount rate 5.70 6.20 5.75 5.75 6.00 6.00 4.70 5.00 4.75
Expected pension increases 3.60 2.90 3.25 n/a n/a n/a 2.20 2.10 2.00
Cash balance credit/conversion rate n/a n/a n/a 4.75 4.50 4.75 1.60 1.20 1.60
Inflation rate 3.60 2.70 3.25 2.50 2.50 2.50 1.70 1.70 1.75
GSK Annual Report 2009281P–19P
stnemetats
laicnaniF
130
Notes to the financial statements
28 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
The amounts recorded in the income statement and statement of comprehensive income for the three years ended 31st December 2009
in relation to the defined benefit pension and post-retirement healthcare schemes were as follows:
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
2009 UK USA Rest of World Group Group
£m £m £m £m £m
Amounts charged to operating profit
Current service cost 121 66 64 251 35
Past service cost – (6) – (6) (27)
Expected return on pension scheme assets (347) (121) (46) (514) –
Interest on scheme liabilities 378 148 62 588 74
Settlements and curtailments 54 7 (17) 44 8
206 94 63 363 90
Actuarial (losses)/gains recorded in the statement of
comprehensive income (578) (5) (77) (660) 1
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
2008 UK USA Rest of World Group Group
£m £m £m £m £m
Amounts charged to operating profit
Current service cost 126 61 59 246 30
Past service cost – 10 2 12 4
Expected return on pension scheme assets (442) (144) (47) (633) –
Interest on scheme liabilities 377 121 53 551 62
Settlements and curtailments 175 12 (22) 165 22
236 60 45 341 118
Actuarial (losses)/gains recorded in the statement of
comprehensive income (776) (576) (82) (1,434) 64
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
2007 UK USA Rest of World Group Group
£m £m £m £m £m
Amounts charged to operating profit
Current service cost 138 60 57 255 30
Past service cost – (7) 1 (6) –
Expected return on pension scheme assets (389) (141) (37) (567) –
Interest on scheme liabilities 335 107 41 483 54
Settlements and curtailments 24 5 (6) 23 6
108 24 56 188 90
Actuarial (losses)/gains recorded in the statement of
comprehensive income 523 66 43 632 39
The total actuarial losses recorded in the statement of comprehensive income since 1st January 2003 amount to £2,047 million.
The amounts included within settlements and curtailments include £72 million (2008 – £208 million; 2007 – £35 million) of augmentation
costs arising from major restructuring programmes (see Note 29 ‘Other provisions’).
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
131
Notes to the financial statements
28 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
The fair values of the assets and liabilities of the UK and US defined benefit pension schemes, together with aggregated data for other
defined benefit pension schemes in the Group are as follows:
UK USA Rest of World Group
Average
Expected rate Fair Expected rate Fair expected rate Fair Fair
At 31st December 2009
of return value of return value of return value value
% £m % £m % £m £m
Equities 8.00 4,209 8.25 914 7.50 232 5,355
Property 7.00 291 7.25 159 7.00 20 470
Bonds 4.90 2,632 5.00 907 3.50 562 4,101
Other assets 0.50 367 0.25 92 3.80 309 768
Fair value of assets 7,499 2,072 1,123 10,694
Present value of scheme obligations (8,446) (2,628) (1,364) (12,438)
(947) (556) (241) (1,744)
Unrecognised past service cost (2) 1 (1)
Recognised on the balance sheet (947) (558) (240) (1,745)
Included in other non-current assets – – 23 23
Included in pensions and other post-employment
benefits (947) (558) (263) (1,768)
(947) (558) (240) (1,745)
Actual return on plan assets 1,076 243 65 1,384
UK USA Rest of World Group
Average
Expected rate Fair Expected rate Fair expected rate Fair Fair
At 31st December 2008
of return value of return value of return value value
% £m % £m % £m £m
Equities 7.75 3,334 8.25 838 7.00 211 4,383
Property 6.75 331 7.25 259 6.75 22 612
Bonds 4.75 2,430 5.25 893 3.25 598 3,921
Other assets 2.75 40 1.50 26 4.25 306 372
Fair value of assets 6,135 2,016 1,137 9,288
Present value of scheme obligations (6,885) (2,738) (1,357) (10,980)
(750) (722) (220) (1,692)
Unrecognised past service cost – – 1 1
Restriction on surplus – – (6) (6)
Recognised on the balance sheet (750) (722) (225) (1,697)
Included in other non-current assets – – 39 39
Included in pensions and other post-employment
benefits (750) (722) (264) (1,736)
(750) (722) (225) (1,697)
Actual return on plan assets (1,249) (470) (87) (1,806)
GSK Annual Report 2009281P–19P
stnemetats
laicnaniF
132
Notes to the financial statements
28 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
UK USA Rest of World Group
Average
Expected rate Fair Expected rate Fair expected rate Fair Fair
At 31st December 2007
of return value of return value of return value value
% £m % £m % £m £m
Equities 8.00 4,578 8.50 1,446 7.50 223 6,247
Property 7.00 338 7.50 213 7.00 20 571
Bonds 5.00 2,322 5.00 335 4.00 430 3,087
Other assets 6.00 55 4.75 10 4.25 212 277
Fair value of assets 7,293 2,004 885 10,182
Present value of scheme obligations (7,371) (1,945) (1,022) (10,338)
(78) 59 (137) (156)
Included in other non-current assets 10 215 30 255
Included in pensions and other post-employment
benefits (88) (156) (167) (411)
(78) 59 (137) (156)
Actual return on plan assets 557 187 19 763
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
133
Notes to the financial statements
28 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
Movements in defined benefit obligations UK USA Rest of World Group Group
£m £m £m £m £m
Obligations at 1st January 2007 (7,444) (1,949) (952) (10,345) (1,063)
Exchange adjustments – 34 (80) (46) 9
Service cost (138) (53) (58) (249) (30)
Interest cost (335) (107) (41) (483) (54)
Settlements and curtailments (24) (5) 4 (25) (6)
Actuarial gains 355 20 61 436 39
Scheme participants’ contributions (38) – (5) (43) –
Benefits paid 253 115 49 417 44
Transfers to other provisions – – – – 89
Recognised on the balance sheet at 31st December 2007 (7,371) (1,945) (1,022) (10,338) (972)
Unrecognised past service cost – – – – (47)
Obligations at 31st December 2007 (7,371) (1,945) (1,022) (10,338) (1,019)
Exchange adjustments – (753) (353) (1,106) (351)
Service cost (126) (71) (61) (258) (28)
Interest cost (377) (121) (53) (551) (62)
Settlements and curtailments (175) (12) 19 (168) (16)
Actuarial gains 915 38 58 1,011 64
Scheme participants’ contributions (33) – (5) (38) (9)
Benefits paid 282 126 60 468 53
Transfers to other provisions – – – – 14
Obligations at 31st December 2008 (6,885) (2,738) (1,357) (10,980) (1,354)
Exchange adjustments – 294 109 403 133
Service cost (121) (58) (64) (243) (5)
Interest cost (378) (148) (62) (588) (74)
Settlements and curtailments (54) (7) 68 7 (8)
Actuarial (losses)/gains (1,307) (127) (102) (1,536) 1
Scheme participants’ contributions (17) – (8) (25) (11)
Benefits paid 345 156 71 572 69
Acquisitions (29) – (19) (48) (4)
Obligations at 31st December 2009 (8,446) (2,628) (1,364) (12,438) (1,253)
Unrecognised past service cost – (2) 1 (1) 40
Recognised on the balance sheet at 31st December 2009 (8,446) (2,630) (1,363) (12,439) (1,213)
The UK defined benefit schemes include defined contribution sections with obligations totalling £765 million at 31st December 2009
(2008 – £553 million; 2007 – £693 million).
The liability for the US post-retirement healthcare scheme has been assessed using the same assumptions as for the US pension scheme,
together with the assumption for future medical inflation of 8.5% (2008 – 9.0%), reducing by 0.5% per year to 5% in 2017 and
thereafter. During 2007, the US post-retirement healthcare scheme was amended. The main change was an increase in the cap on
Group costs. During 2009, both the US pension and post-retirement healthcare plan were amended. The changes resulted in a one-off
gain of £37 million in the income statement. At 31st December 2009 the US plan obligation was £1,102 million (2008 – £1,223 million;
2007 – £879 million). However, in accordance with IAS 19 the unvested part of a benefit improvement is not recognised immediately
on the balance sheet but is recognised gradually through the income statement. At 31st December 2009, the unrecognised amount
of £40 million (2008 – £51 million; 2007 – £47 million) primarily relates to the effect of this change in the US post-retirement scheme.
At 31st December 2008, the past service cost not recognised from this scheme amounted to £53 million.
GSK Annual Report 2009281P–19P
stnemetats
laicnaniF
134
Notes to the financial statements
28 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
The defined benefit pension obligation is analysed as follows:
2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Funded (12,126) (10,662) (10,079)
Unfunded (312) (318) (259)
(12,438) (10,980) (10,338)
Post-retirement benefits are unfunded.
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
Movements in fair values of assets UK USA Rest of World Group Group
£m £m £m £m £m
Assets at 1st January 2007 6,554 1,953 741 9,248 –
Exchange adjustments – (29) 68 39 –
Expected return on assets 389 141 37 567 –
Settlements and curtailments – – 2 2 –
Actuarial gains/(losses) 168 46 (18) 196 –
Employer contributions 397 8 99 504 41
Scheme participants’ contributions 38 – 5 43 3
Benefits paid (253) (115) (49) (417) (44)
Assets at 31st December 2007 7,293 2,004 885 10,182 –
Exchange adjustments – 598 298 896 –
Expected return on assets 442 144 47 633 –
Settlements and curtailments – – 3 3 –
Actuarial losses (1,691) (614) (134) (2,439) –
Employer contributions 340 10 93 443 44
Scheme participants’ contributions 33 – 5 38 9
Benefits paid (282) (126) (60) (468) (53)
Assets at 31st December 2008 6,135 2,016 1,137 9,288 –
Exchange adjustments – (221) (93) (314) –
Expected return on assets 347 121 46 514 –
Settlements and curtailments – – (51) (51) –
Actuarial gains 729 122 19 870 –
Employer contributions 594 190 110 894 58
Scheme participants’ contributions 17 – 8 25 11
Benefits paid (345) (156) (71) (572) (69)
Acquisitions 22 – 18 40 –
Assets at 31st December 2009 7,499 2,072 1,123 10,694 –
The UK defined benefit schemes include defined contribution sections with account balances totalling £765 million at 31st December
2009 (2008 – £553 million; 2007 – £693 million).
During 2009, the Group made special funding contributions to the UK pension schemes totalling £332 million and £95 million to the
US scheme (2008 – £200 million to the UK pension schemes). In 2009, GSK reached an agreement with the trustees of the UK pension
schemes to make additional contributions to eliminate the pension deficit identified at the 31st December 2008 actuarial funding
valuation. The additional contributions are expected to be £365 million per year for 2010 to 2013. The contributions are based on
a discount rate of 5.25% and an inflation assumption of 2.8%. The next review of contribution levels is expected to be at the
31st December 2011 actuarial valuation although the Group has agreed to review mortality assumptions before then which could
result in an earlier revision to contributions.
Employer contributions for 2010, including special funding contributions, are estimated to be approximately £800 million in respect of
defined benefit pension schemes and £60 million in respect of post-retirement benefits.
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
135
Notes to the financial statements
28 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
History of experience gains and losses UK USA Rest of World Group Group
£m £m £m £m £m
2009
Experience gains of scheme assets 729 122 19 870
Percentage of scheme assets at 31st December 2009 10% 6% 2% 8%
Experience gains/(losses) of scheme liabilities 162 (27) (15) 120 6
Percentage of scheme obligations at 31st December 2009 2% 1% 1% 1% –
Fair value of assets 7,499 2,072 1,123 10,694 –
Present value of scheme obligations (8,446) (2,628) (1,364) (12,438) (1,253)
Deficits in the schemes (947) (556) (241) (1,744) (1,253)
2008
Experience losses of scheme assets (1,691 ) (614) (134) (2,439)
Percentage of scheme assets at 31st December 2008 28% 30% 12% 26%
Experience (losses)/gains of scheme liabilities (148) 2 1 (145) (14)
Percentage of scheme obligations at 31st December 2008 2% – – 1% 1%
Fair value of assets 6,135 2,016 1,137 9,288 –
Present value of scheme obligations (6,885) (2,738) (1,357) (10,980) (1,354)
Deficits in the schemes (750) (722) (220) (1,692) (1,354)
2007
Experience gains/(losses) of scheme assets 168 46 (18) 196
Percentage of scheme assets at 31st December 2007 2% 2% 2% 2%
Experience gains/(losses) of scheme liabilities 33 (30) 6 9 –
Percentage of scheme obligations at 31st December 2007 – 2% 1% – –
Fair value of assets 7,293 2,004 885 10,182 –
Present value of scheme obligations (7,371) (1,945) (1,022) (10,338) (1,019)
(Deficits)/surpluses in the schemes (78) 59 (137) (156) (1,019)
2006
Experience gains of scheme assets 227 168 26 421
Percentage of scheme assets at 31st December 2006 3% 9% 4% 5%
Experience (losses)/gains of scheme liabilities (37) (16) (42) (95) 17
Percentage of scheme obligations at 31st December 2006 – 1% 4% 1% 2%
Fair value of assets 6,554 1,953 741 9,248 –
Present value of scheme obligations (7,444) (1,949) (952) (10,345) (1,063)
(Deficits)/surpluses in the schemes (890) 4 (211) (1,097) (1,063)
2005
Experience gains of scheme assets 647 3 35 685
Percentage of scheme assets at 31st December 2005 11% – 5% 8%
Experience losses of scheme liabilities (94) (10) (35) (139) (4)
Percentage of scheme obligations at 31st December 2005 1% – 4% 1% –
Fair value of assets 5,744 1,976 657 8,377 –
Present value of scheme obligations (7,054) (2,150) (922) (10,126) (1,308)
Deficits in the schemes (1,310) (174) (265) (1,749) (1,308)
GSK Annual Report 2009281P–19P
stnemetats
laicnaniF
136
Notes to the financial statements
28 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
Sensitivity analysis
Effect of changes in assumptions used on the annual defined benefit pension and post-retirement costs or the benefit obligations:
£m
A 0.25% decrease in discount rate would have the following approximate effect:
Increase in annual pension cost 7
Increase in annual post-retirement benefits cost –
Increase in pension obligation 440
Increase in post-retirement benefits obligation 36
A one year increase in life expectancy would have the following approximate effect:
Increase in annual pension cost 24
Increase in annual post-retirement benefits cost 7
Increase in pension obligation 249
Increase in post-retirement benefits obligation 49
A 0.25% decrease in expected rates of returns on assets would have the following approximate effect:
Increase in annual pension cost 24
A 1% increase in the rate of future healthcare inflation would have the following approximate effect:
Increase in annual post-retirement benefits cost 2
Increase in post-retirement benefits obligation 45
A 0.25% increase in inflation would have the following approximate effect:
Increase in annual pension cost 24
Increase in pension obligation 316
29 Other provisions
Integration
Legal Major Employee and
and other restructuring related manufacturing Other
disputes programmes provisions re-organisation provisions Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1st January 2009 1,903 652 268 90 186 3,099
Exchange adjustments (211) (33) (20) (5) (17) (286)
Charge for the year 667 487 57 1 32 1,244
Reversed unused (86) (15) (4) (7) (13) (125)
Unwinding of discount 1 3 – – 7 11
Utilised (254) (450) (69) (21) (26) (820)
Acquisition of subsidiary – – – – 17 17
Transfer to pensions obligations – (72) – – – (72)
Reclassifications and other movements – 2 9 (3) 165 173
At 31st December 2009 2,020 574 241 55 351 3,241
To be settled within one year 1,717 399 31 7 102 2,256
To be settled after one year 303 175 210 48 249 985
At 31st December 2009 2,020 574 241 55 351 3,241
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
137
Notes to the financial statements
29 Other provisions continued Employee related provisions
Employee related provisions includes the exchange offer incentive
Legal and other disputes
programme which operated at the time of the merger to
GSK is involved in a number of legal and other disputes,
encourage staff to convert Glaxo Wellcome or SmithKline Beecham
including notification of possible claims, as set out in Note 44
share options into GlaxoSmithKline share options. The incentive is
‘Legal proceedings’. Provisions for legal and other disputes
paid either when employees exercise the relevant options, or when
include amounts relating to US anti-trust, product liability,
the options lapse, up to 2010. There is no impact of discounting
contract terminations, self-insurance, environmental clean-up
on this provision in 2009 (2008 – £nil), which was calculated using
and property rental.
risk-free rates of return. The Group also provides certain medical
The discount on these provisions increased by £5 million in benefits to disabled employees and their spouses in the USA.
2009 (2008 – £61 million decrease) and was calculated using At 31st December 2009, the provision for these benefits
risk-adjusted projected cash flows and risk-free rates of return. amounted to £118 million. Other employee benefits reflect a
The movement in 2009 includes an increase of £6 million variety of provisions for severance costs, jubilee awards and other
arising from a change in the discount rate in the year. Certain long-service benefits.
products have a history of claims made and settlements which
Integration and manufacturing re-organisation
makes it possible to use an IBNR (incurred but not reported)
Provisions for integration and manufacturing re-organisations
actuarial technique to determine a reasonable estimate of the
reflect costs related to ongoing restructuring programmes
Group’s exposure for unasserted claims in relation to those
not included within the costs disclosed in Note 7, ‘Major
products. Apart from the IBNR provision, no provisions have been
restructuring programmes’.
made for unasserted claims. The ultimate liability for such matters
may vary from the amounts provided and is dependent upon the Other provisions
outcome of litigation proceedings, investigations and possible The Group has recognised contingent consideration in respect of
settlement negotiations. the acquisitions of Bristol Myers Squibb Pakistan (Private) Limited
and Stiefel Laboratories, Inc. as described in Note 38 ‘Acquisitions
It is in the nature of the Group’s business that a number of these
and disposals’. The contingent consideration is payable upon
matters, including those provided using the IBNR actuarial
certain criteria being met by certain specified dates in the future.
technique,may be the subject of negotiation and litigation over
The initial recognition of these provisions are included within
several years. The largest individual amounts provided are expected
‘reclassifications and other movements’. The aggregate provision
to be settled within three years.
for these items amounts to £161 million at 31st December 2009.
At 31st December 2009, it is expected that £97 million
(2008 – £112 million) of the provision made for legal and other
disputes will be reimbursed by third party insurers. This amount is
included within ’other receivables’ in Note 22, ‘Other non-current
assets’ and Note 24, ‘Trade and other receivables’. For a discussion
of legal issues, see Note 44 ‘Legal proceedings’.
Major restructuring programmes
In October 2007 GSK announced a significant new Operational
Excellence programme to improve the effectiveness and
productivity of its operations (see Note 7 ‘Major restructuring
programme’). A significant expansion of the Operational Excellence
programme was approved by the Board and announced in
February 2009. A further expansion was approved by the Board
and announced in February 2010.
Provisions for staff severance payments are made when
management has made a formal decision to eliminate certain
positions and this has been communicated to the groups of
employees affected. No provision is made for staff severance
payments that are made immediately.
Pension augmentations arising from staff redundancies of
£72 million have been charged during the year and then
transferred to the pension obligations provision as shown in
Note 28 ‘Pensions and other post-employment benefits’.
Asset write-downs have been recognised as impairments of
property, plant and equipment in Note 17 ‘Property, plant
and equipment’.
GSK Annual Report 2009281P–19P
stnemetats
laicnaniF
138
Notes to the financial statements
30 Other non-current liabilities
2009 2008
£m £m
Accruals and deferred income 124 96
Other payables 481 331
605 427
31 Contingent liabilities
At 31st December 2009, contingent liabilities, comprising guarantees, discounted bills and other items arising in the normal course of
business, amounted to £150 million (2008 – £134 million). At 31st December 2009, £9 million (2008 – £12 million) of financial assets
were pledged as collateral for contingent liabilities. For discussions of tax and legal issues, refer to Note 14, ‘Taxation’ and Note 44,
‘Legal proceedings’.
32 Net debt
2009 2008
Listing exchange £m £m
Current assets:
Liquid investments 268 391
Cash and cash equivalents 6,545 5,623
6,813 6,014
Short-term borrowings:
3.25% € European Medium Term Note 2009 London Stock Exchange – (481)
US$ Floating Rate Note 2010 New York Stock Exchange (621) –
Commercial paper (621) –
Bank loans and overdrafts (182) (426)
Loan stock (7) –
Other loans – (1)
Obligations under finance leases (40) (48)
(1,471) (956)
Long-term borrowings:
US$ Floating rate Note 2010 New York Stock Exchange – (694)
3.00% € European Medium Term Note 2012 London Stock Exchange (662) (718)
5.125% € European Medium Term Note 2012 London Stock Exchange (1,985) (2,154)
4.85% US$ US Medium Term Note 2013 New York Stock Exchange (1,548 ) (1,728)
4.375% US$ US Medium Term Note 2014 London Stock Exchange (990) (1,146)
3.875% € European Medium Term Note 2015 London Stock Exchange (1,404) –
5.625% € European Medium Term Note 2017 London Stock Exchange (1,100) (1,193)
5.65% US$ US Medium Term Note 2018 New York Stock Exchange (1,701) (1,901)
4.00% € European Medium Term Note 2025 London Stock Exchange (653) (709)
5.25% £ European Medium Term Note 2033 London Stock Exchange (979) (979)
5.375% US$ US Medium Term Note 2034 London Stock Exchange (308) (344)
6.375% US$ US Medium Term Note 2038 New York Stock Exchange (1,689) (1,888)
6.375% £ European Medium Term Note 2039 London Stock Exchange (693) (693)
5.25% £ European Medium Term Note 2042 London Stock Exchange (984) (984)
Loan stock – (8)
Bank loans – (1)
Other loans and private financing – (3)
Obligations under finance leases (90) (88)
(14,786) (15,231)
Net debt (9,444) (10,173)
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
139
Notes to the financial statements
32 Net debt continued
Current assets
Liquid investments are classified as available-for-sale investments. At 31st December 2009, they included US Treasury notes and
other government bonds. The effective interest rate on liquid investments at 31st December 2009 was approximately 4.6%
(2008 – approximately 5.5%). Liquid investment balances at 31st December 2009 earning interest at floating and fixed rates
amount to £1 million and £267 million, respectively (2008 – £1 million and £390 million).
The effective interest rate on cash and cash equivalents at 31st December 2009 was approximately 0.7% (2008 – approximately 1.8%).
Cash and cash equivalents balances at 31st December 2009 earning interest at floating and fixed rates amount to £6,372 million and
£17 million, respectively (2008 – £5,520 million and £4 million).
GSK’s policy regarding the credit quality of cash and cash equivalents is referred to in Note 41, ‘Financial instruments and related
disclosures’.
Short-term borrowings
Commercial paper comprises a US $10 billion programme, of which $1 billion (£621 million) was in issue at 31st December 2009
(2008 – $nil (£nil)), backed up by committed facilities of 364 days duration of $3.9 billion (£2.4 billion) (2008 – $3.9 billion (£2.7 billion))
renewable annually, and liquid investments, cash and cash equivalents as shown in the table above.
The weighted average interest rate on current bank loans and overdrafts at 31st December 2009 was 4.8% (2008 – 1.59%).
Long-term borrowings
At the year-end, GSK had long-term borrowings of £14.8 billion (2008 – £15.2 billion) of which £9.5 billion (2008 – £9.8 billion) falls
due in more than five years.
Long-term borrowings repayable after five years carry interest at effective rates between 3.88% and 6.38%. The repayment dates
range from 2015 to 2042. The average effective interest rate of all notes at 31st December 2009 was approximately 4.9%
(2008 – approximately 5.0%).
Secured liabilities
GSK had no loans secured by charges on non-current and current assets in the year (2008 – £nil). The Group has pledged investments
in US Treasury Notes with a par value of $103 million (2008 – $198 million) as security against irrevocable letters of credit issued on the
Group’s behalf in respect of the Group’s self-insurance activity. Provisions in respect of self-insurance are included within the provisions
for legal and other disputes discussed in Note 29, ‘Other provisions’.
2009 2008
Finance lease obligations £m £m
Rental payments due within one year 44 53
Rental payments due between one and two years 38 39
Rental payments due between two and three years 26 30
Rental payments due between three and four years 16 17
Rental payments due between four and five years 6 6
Rental payments due after five years 16 9
Total future rental payments 146 154
Future finance charges (16) (18)
Total finance lease obligations 130 136
Finance lease obligations at 31st December 2009 bearing interest at floating and fixed rates amount to £89 million and £41 million,
respectively (2008 – £98 million and £38 million).
GSK Annual Report 2009281P–19P
stnemetats
laicnaniF
140
Notes to the financial statements
33 Share capital and share premium account
Share
Ordinary Shares of 25p each premium
Number £m £m
Share capital authorised
At 31st December 2007 10,000,000,000 2,500
At 31st December 2008 10,000,000,000 2,500
At 31st December 2009 10,000,000,000 2,500
Share capital issued and fully paid
At 1st January 2007 5,991,601,848 1,498 858
Issued under share option schemes 37,307,678 9 408
Share capital purchased and cancelled (16,322,500) (4) –
At 31st December 2007 6,012,587,026 1,503 1,266
Issued under share option schemes 5,640,119 2 60
Share capital purchased and cancelled (356,910,908) (90) –
At 31st December 2008 5,661,316,237 1,415 1,326
Issued under share option schemes 3,812,482 1 42
At 31st December 2009 5,665,128,719 1,416 1,368
31st December 31st December
2009 2008
Number (‘000) of shares issuable under outstanding options (Note 42) 213,110 220,459
Number (‘000) of unissued shares not under option 4,121,761 4,118,225
At 31st December 2009, of the issued share capital, 117,735,257 shares were held in the ESOP Trust, 474,194,158 shares were held as
Treasury shares and 5,073,199,304 shares were in free issue. All issued shares are fully paid. The nominal, carrying and market values of
the shares held in the ESOP Trust are disclosed in Note 42, ‘Employee share schemes’.
The company did not make any purchases of its own shares in 2009. There have been no purchases since 31st December 2009.
GSK does not expect to make significant share repurchases in 2010.
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
141
Notes to the financial statements
34 Movements in equity
Retained earnings and other reserves amounted to £7,221 million at 31st December 2009 (2008 – £5,190 million; 2007 – £6,834 million)
of which £390 million (2008 – £391 million; 2007 – £218 million) relates to joint ventures and associated undertakings. The cumulative
translation exchange in equity is shown below in the following table:
Net translation exchange included in:
Total
Fair value Retained Minority translation
reserve earnings interest exchange
£m £m £m £m
At 1st January 2007 9 (59) (92) (142)
Exchange movements on overseas net assets – 394 17 411
At 31st December 2007 9 335 (75) 269
Exchange movements on overseas net assets 1 952 64 1,017
Reclassification of exchange on liquidation of overseas subsidiary – 84 – 84
At 31st December 2008 10 1,371 (11) 1,370
Exchange movements on overseas net assets 1 (161) (34) (194)
Reclassification of exchange on liquidation of overseas subsidiary – (44) – (44)
At 31st December 2009 11 1,166 (45) 1,132
The analysis of other reserves is as follows:
ESOP Trust Fair value Cash flow Other
shares reserve hedge reserve reserves Total
£m £m £m £m £m
At 1st January 2007 (1,999) 137 (3) 1,930 65
Transferred to income and expense in the year on disposals – (34) – – (34)
Transferred to income and expense in the year on impairment – (12) – – (12)
Net fair value movement in the year – (42) (4) – (46)
Ordinary Shares purchased and cancelled – – – 4 4
Ordinary Shares acquired by ESOP Trusts (26) – – – (26)
Ordinary Shares transferred by ESOP Trusts 116 – – – 116
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts 292 – – – 292
At 31st December 2007 (1,617) 49 (7) 1,934 359
Transferred to income and expense in the year on disposals – (32) – – (32)
Transferred to income and expense in the year on impairment – (2) – – (2)
Net fair value movement in the year – (23) 4 – (19)
Ordinary Shares purchased and cancelled – – – 90 90
Ordinary Shares acquired by ESOP Trusts (19) – – – (19)
Ordinary Shares transferred by ESOP Trusts 10 – – – 10
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts 181 – – – 181
At 31st December 2008 (1,445) (8) (3) 2,024 568
Transferred to income and expense in the year on disposals – (40) 1 – (39)
Transferred to income and expense in the year on impairment – 40 – – 40
Net fair value movement in the year – 30 (4) – 26
Ordinary Shares acquired by ESOP Trusts (57) – – – (57)
Ordinary Shares transferred by ESOP Trusts 13 – – – 13
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts 351 – – – 351
Put option over minority interest – – – (2) (2)
At 31st December 2009 (1,138) 22 (6) 2,022 900
Other reserves include various non-distributable merger and pre-merger reserves amounting to £1,849 million at 31st December 2009
(2008 – £1,849 million; 2007 – £1,849 million). Other reserves also include the capital redemption reserve created as a result of the share
buy-back programme amounting to £175 million at 31st December 2009 (2008 – £175 million; 2007 – £85 million).
GSK Annual Report 2009281P–19P
stnemetats
laicnaniF
142
Notes to the financial statements
35 Related party transactions
GSK held a 16.8% interest in Quest Diagnostics Inc. at 31st December 2009 (2008 – 18.7%). The Group and Quest Diagnostics are
parties to a long-term contractual relationship under which Quest Diagnostics is the primary provider of clinical laboratory testing to
support the Group’s clinical trials testing requirements worldwide. During 2009, Quest Diagnostics provided services of £47 million
(2008 – £42 million) to the Group. At 31st December 2009, the balance payable by GSK to Quest Diagnostics was £10 million
(2008 – £nil).
In March 2009, 5,749,157 shares in the Group’s associate Quest Diagnostics Inc. were sold for a cash consideration of £178 million,
the majority of the shares being sold direct to Quest Diagnostics Inc. with the remainder being sold in the market.
On 30th November 2009, GSK completed the extension of its strategic relationship with Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Limited by the
acquisition of a minority shareholding in the South African based pharmaceutical company. The transaction resulted in GSK acquiring
68.5 million shares in Aspen in consideration for the transfer of certain assets and in Aspen becoming an associate. A gain of
£183 million on the transaction is included within other operating income. At 31st December 2009, GSK held 81.7 million shares,
a 19% interest in Aspen.
During December 2009, GSK distributed £18 million of its products through Aspen’s extensive distribution network. At 31st December
2009, the balance due to GSK from Aspen was £18 million (2008 – £nil) and the balance payable by GSK to Aspen was £13 million
(2008 – £nil).
In 2009, both the Group and Shionogi & Co. Ltd. entered into transactions with their 50/50 US joint venture company in support of
the research and development activities conducted by that joint venture company. During 2009, GSK provided services to the joint
venture of £15 million (2008 – £7 million). At 31st December 2009, the balance due to GSK from the joint venture was £14 million
(2008 – £5 million).
The aggregate compensation of the Directors and CET is given in Note 10, ‘Employee Costs’.
36 Adjustments reconciling profit after tax to operating cash flows
2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Profit after tax 5,669 4,712 5,310
Tax on profits 2,222 1,947 2,142
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures (64) (48) (50)
Finance income net of finance costs 713 530 191
Depreciation 1,130 920 796
Amortisation of intangible assets 432 311 226
Impairment and assets written off 445 436 206
Profit on sale of intangible assets (835) (170) (5)
Profit on sale of investments in associates (115) – –
Profit on sale of equity investments (40) (33) (32)
Changes in working capital:
Increase in inventories (132) (411) (457)
(Increase)/decrease in trade receivables (473) 519 (77)
(Increase)/decrease in other receivables (134) 22 (2)
Increase/(decrease) in trade payables 499 (39) 9
Increase/(decrease) in other payables 409 (162) (196)
(Decrease)/increase in pension and other provisions (320) 548 (123)
Share-based incentive plans 179 241 237
Other (40) (268) (95)
3,876 4,343 2,770
Cash generated from operations 9,545 9,055 8,080
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
143
Notes to the financial statements
37 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt
2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Net debt at beginning of year (10,173) (6,039) (2,450)
Increase in cash and bank overdrafts 1,054 1,148 1,411
Cash (inflow)/outflow from liquid investments (87) (905) 39
Net increase in long-term loans (1,358) (5,523) (3,276)
Net repayment of/(increase in) short-term loans 102 3,059 (1,632)
Net repayment of obligations under finance leases 48 48 39
Debt of subsidiary undertakings acquired (9) – –
Exchange adjustments 1,041 (1,918) (88)
Other non-cash movements (62) (43) (82)
Movement in net debt 729 (4,134) (3,589)
Net debt at end of year (9,444) (10,173) (6,039)
Analysis of changes in net debt At 31.12.08 Exchange Other Reclassifications Acquisitions Cash flow At 31.12.09
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Liquid investments 391 (36) – – – (87) 268
Cash and cash equivalents 5,623 (171) – – 94 999 6,545
Overdrafts (151) 13 – – – (39) (177)
5,472 (158) – – 94 960 6,368
Debt due within one year:
Commercial paper – – – – – (621) (621)
Eurobonds and Medium-Term Notes (481) 69 (38) (641) – 470 (621)
Other (324) 33 (20) (25) (9) 293 (52)
(805) 102 (58) (666) (9) 142 (1,294)
Debt due after one year:
Eurobonds, Medium-Term Notes and
private financing (15,131) 1,128 24 641 – (1,358) (14,696)
Other (100) 5 (28) 25 – 8 (90)
(15,231) 1,133 (4) 666 – (1,350) (14,786)
Net debt (10,173) 1,041 (62) – 85 (335) (9,444)
For further information on significant changes in net debt see Note 32 ‘Net debt’.
38 Acquisitions and disposals
Details of the acquisition and disposal of subsidiary and associated undertakings, joint ventures and other businesses are given below:
2009
Acquisitions
Genelabs Technologies Inc.
On 7th January 2009, the Group acquired all of the share capital of Genelabs Technologies Inc, a California biotechnology company
with a strong and focused portfolio in hepatitis C vaccines. The purchase price of £42 million included £12 million of cash and cash
equivalents, with the remainder represented by preliminary net asset valuations of £30 million. This transaction has been accounted for
by the purchase method of accounting. Genelabs Technologies Inc. had turnover of £nil and a loss after tax of £8 million for the year, of
which turnover of £nil and £8 million of loss after tax related to the period since acquisition and are included in the Group accounts.
GSK Annual Report 2009281P–19P
stnemetats
laicnaniF
144
Notes to the financial statements
38 Acquisitions and disposals continued
2009
Acquisitions continued
Genelabs Technologies Inc. continued
Book Fair value Fair
value adjustment value
£m £m £m
Net assets acquired
Intangible assets – 1 1
Property, plant and equipment 2 – 2
Other assets including cash and cash equivalents 14 – 14
Deferred tax asset – 26 26
Other liabilities (2) – (2)
14 27 41
Goodwill – 1 1
Total consideration 14 28 42
Bristol Myers Squibb Pakistan (Private) Limited
On 30th January 2009, the Group acquired all of the share capital of Bristol Myers Squibb Pakistan (Private) Limited and certain associated
trademarks for a consideration of £25 million. As a result, the Group has acquired a portfolio of over 30 well-established pharmaceutical
brands, many of which occupy leading market positions in key therapeutic disease areas in Pakistan. The purchase price of £25 million
was represented by provisional valuations of intangible assets of £8 million, goodwill of £10 million and other net assets of £7 million.
The goodwill arising on the acquisition reflects the potential for product growth throughout the region and the expected synergies
for the Group. This transaction has been accounted for by the purchase method of accounting. Bristol Myers Squibb Pakistan (Private)
Limited had a turnover of £15 million and a profit after tax of £0.3 million for the year, of which £14 million of turnover and
£0.4 million of profit after tax related to the period since acquisition and are included in the Group accounts.
Book Fair value Fair
value adjustment value
£m £m £m
Net assets acquired
Intangible assets 7 1 8
Property, plant and equipment 5 3 8
Other assets including cash and cash equivalents 6 – 6
Deferred tax provision (1) – (1)
Other liabilities (5) (1) (6)
12 3 15
Goodwill – 10 10
Total consideration 12 13 25
Certain businesses from UCB S.A.
On 31st March 2009, the Group acquired from UCB S.A. its marketed product portfolio across certain territories in Africa, the Middle
East, Asia Pacific and Latin America which includes several leading pharmaceutical brands in a number of disease areas. Subsequent to
this date the Group completed further country acquisitions which formed part of the original transaction. The purchase price of
£477 million included £5 million of net cash, £445 million of intangible assets, £87 million of goodwill and £60 million of other net
liabilities. These are provisional valuations and may change in the future. The goodwill arising on the acquisition of this business reflects
the potential for product growth throughout the regions and the expected synergies for the Group. This transaction has been accounted
for by the purchase method of accounting.
The transaction included acquisition of both a number of legal entities and product rights that had been previously marketed outside
of those entities. The product portfolio acquired has been integrated into the GSK business in the period since acquisition and it is not
therefore practicable to identify the result after tax arising as a result of this transaction for the period after acquisition.
Prior to acquisition it is estimated that the product portfolio recorded turnover of £26 million. Since acquisition GSK has recorded
turnover of £77 million from the products acquired.
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
145
Notes to the financial statements
38 Acquisitions and disposals continued
2009
Certain businesses from UCB S.A. continued
Book Fair value Fair
value adjustment value
£m £m £m
Net assets acquired
Intangible assets 417 28 445
Property, plant and equipment 1 – 1
Cash and cash equivalents 5 – 5
Deferred tax provision – (56) (56)
Other liabilities (5) – (5)
418 (28) 390
Goodwill – 87 87
Total consideration 418 59 477
AZ Tika
On 21st April 2009, the Group acquired all of the share capital of AZ Tika, a wholly owned subsidiary of Astra Zeneca plc for a cash
consideration of £146 million. As a result, the Group has acquired a number of leading over-the-counter products, predominantly sold in
Sweden, including Alvedon, the country’s leading analgesic treatment. The purchase price of £146 million was represented by intangible
assets of £109 million, goodwill of £50 million and other net liabilities of £13 million. The goodwill arising on the acquisition reflects the
potential for product growth and the expected synergies for the Group. This transaction has been accounted for by the purchase method
of accounting. Prior to acquisition the products acquired were marketed outside the entity acquired. The products acquired have been
integrated into the GSK business in the period since acquisition and it is not therefore practicable to identify the result after tax arising as
a result of the transaction for the period after acquisition.
Prior to acquisition it is estimated that the product portfolio recorded turnover of £7 million. Since acquisition GSK has recorded turnover
of £24 million from the products acquired.
Book Fair value Fair
value adjustment value
£m £m £m
Net assets acquired
Intangible assets 72 37 109
Other assets including cash and cash equivalents – 1 1
Deferred tax provision – (14) (14)
72 24 96
Goodwill – 50 50
Total consideration 72 74 146
Stiefel Laboratories, Inc.
On 22nd July 2009, the Group acquired all of the share capital of Stiefel Laboratories, Inc., the world’s largest private dermatological
company for a cash consideration of £1,993 million net of cash acquired and including £326 million of debt repaid on acquisition.
The purchase price of £2,219 million (including contingent cash consideration of £152 million payable upon certain criteria being met
by specified dates in the future) included £74 million of cash and cash equivalents, £1,513 million of intangible assets, £885 million of
goodwill, representing the potential for additional growth from the combination of the Stiefel business and GSK’s existing dermatology
portfolio, and £253 million of other net liabilities. The purchase price includes potential obligations to make additional payments of up to
$300 million (£183 million) depending on the future performance of certain products. These are provisional valuations and may change
in the future. Stiefel Laboratories Inc. had a turnover of £547 million and a loss after tax (including restructuring costs) of £103 million for
the year ended 31st December 2009, of which £248 million of turnover and £78 million of loss after tax (including restructuring costs)
related to the period since acquisition and are included in the Group accounts. Since acquisition, Stiefel made an operating profit of
£35 million before restructuring costs and intangible assets amortisation.
The new business will provide significant opportunities for both sales and cost synergies. Stiefel’s products will benefit from GSK’s global
distribution and commercial organisations, particularly in markets such as Brazil, Russia, India, China and Japan. GSK’s products will
benefit from Stiefel’s speciality sales force relationships and experienced management in dermatology.
Cost synergies for the new business are expected primarily from combining manufacturing and administrative functions. As previously
reported, GSK expects to deliver annual pre-tax cost savings of up to £155 million by 2012 with restructuring costs of approximately
£205 million, of which £71 million was charged in 2009 and the remainder will be incurred over the next two years. Excluding
restructuring costs, the Stiefel acquisition resulted in a dilution of GSK’s earnings per share of less than 1% in 2009 and is expected to
result in an improvement of 1-2% in 2010.
GSK Annual Report 2009281P–19P
stnemetats
laicnaniF
146
Notes to the financial statements
38 Acquisitions and disposals continued
2009
Stiefel Laboratories, Inc. continued
Book Fair value Fair
value adjustment value
£m £m £m
Net assets acquired
Intangible assets 274 1,239 1,513
Property, plant and equipment 111 – 111
Other assets including cash and cash equivalents 210 47 257
Deferred tax provision 35 (331) (296)
Other liabilities (251) – (251)
379 955 1,334
Goodwill – 885 885
Total consideration 379 1,840 2,219
ViiV Healthcare Limited
On 30th October 2009, GSK acquired Pfizer Inc.’s HIV business and combined it with its own HIV business to form ViiV Healthcare
Limited, a sub-group owned 85% by GSK and 15% by Pfizer. The consideration given by GSK, representing 15% of the net value of
GSK’s HIV business, contingent consideration and transaction costs, was valued at £383 million. This was represented by £595 million
of intangible assets, £172 million of deferred tax liability, £21 million of other net assets, £316 million increase in minority interests and
£255 million of goodwill representing the economies of scale gained from the combination of the two businesses and the potential
for growth of both partners’ HIV products within ViiV Healthcare. These are provisional valuations and may change in the future.
The minority interest represents Pfizer’s interest in ViiV Healthcare including the right to preferential dividends based on the sales
performance of certain products.
GSK has recognised an accounting gain of £296 million on this transaction arising on the disposal of a 15% interest in GSK’s HIV
business to Pfizer recorded at book value, in return for 85% of Pfizer’s HIV business recorded at fair value.
The acquired Pfizer HIV business had a turnover of £89 million and a loss after tax of £39 million for the year, of which, after taking
account of the transition status in various territories, £1 million of turnover and £23 million of loss after tax has been recognised in the
Group accounts, including restructuring costs.
Book Fair value Fair
value adjustment value
£m £m £m
Net assets acquired
Intangible assets 13 582 595
Other assets including cash and cash equivalents 10 11 21
Deferred tax provision – (172) (172)
23 421 444
Minority interests – (316) (316)
Goodwill – 255 255
Total consideration 23 360 383
Consideration
Fair value of assets contributed by GSK 328
Fair value of contingent equity contributed by GSK 37
Direct costs 18
Total consideration 383
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
147
Notes to the financial statements
38 Acquisitions and disposals continued
2009
Acquisitions continued
Laboratoire Pharmaceutique Algérien
On 10th November 2009, GSK acquired 100% of the share capital of the Algerian pharmaceutical, manufacturing and distribution
group, Laboratoire Pharmaceutique Algérien, for a cash consideration of £26 million net of cash acquired. The purchase price of
£29 million included £3 million of cash and cash equivalents, £35 million of goodwill, £15 million of other net liabilities, and a
£6 million reduction in the value of an existing investment. These are provisional valuations and may change in the future. The goodwill
reflects the potential for business synergies and further sales growth through the increase in GSK’s market presence following the
acquisition of an established market participant. This transaction has been accounted for by the purchase method of accounting.
Laboratoire Pharmaceutique Algérien had a turnover of £61 million for the year ended 31st December 2009. The result for the year has
not yet been determined but is estimated to be a loss of £25 million. Turnover of £6 million and £1 million of loss related to the period
after acquisition are recorded in the Group accounts.
Book Fair value Fair
value adjustment value
£m £m £m
Net assets acquired
Property, plant and equipment 29 – 29
Cash and cash equivalents 3 – 3
Other liabilities (44) – (44)
(12) – (12)
Goodwill – 35 35
Fair value loss arising on increased investment in LPA Distribution – 6 6
Total consideration (12) 41 29
NovaMin Technology Inc.
On 18th December 2009, GSK acquired 100% of the share capital of NovaMin Technology Inc., a privately held US company for a cash
consideration of £87 million. The purchase price included £51 million of intangible assets, £53 million of goodwill and £17 million of
net liabilities. These are provisional valuations and may change in the future. The company has a specialty oral care ingredient for the
treatment of dentine hypersensitivity and the goodwill arising from the acquisition represents the potential for additional growth from
the combination of the company’s technology with specific GSK oral care products. This transaction has been accounted for by the
purchase method of accounting. NovaMin Technology Inc. had a turnover of £0.1 million and a loss after tax of £0.5 million for the year,
of which £nil of turnover and £nil of loss after tax related to the period since acquisition and are included in the Group accounts.
Book Fair value Fair
value adjustment value
£m £m £m
Net assets acquired
Intangible assets 1 50 51
Deferred tax provision – (17) (17)
1 33 34
Goodwill – 53 53
Total consideration 1 86 87
If the above acquisitions had been made at the beginning of the year, it is estimated that Group turnover would have increased by
£477 million for the year. As some of the acquisitions have been fully integrated into the GSK business it is not practicable to separately
identify the impact of the acquisitions on the Group profit for the year.
Other acquisitions in the year include £16 million invested in Shionogi-GlaxoSmithKline Holdings, L.P., a joint venture in which the Group
has a 50% share and £20 million invested in Shenzhen GlaxoSmithKline – Neptunus Biologicals Co., Ltd, an associate in which the Group
has an initial 40% share.
Certain Stiefel Laboratoire NovaMin
BMS businesses Laboratories, Pharmaceutique Technology
Cash flows Genelabs (Pakistan) of UCB S.A. AZ Tika Inc. Algérien Inc Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cash consideration 42 23 477 146 2,067 29 87 44 2,915
Cash and cash equivalents acquired (12) – (5) – (74) (3) – – (94)
Net cash consideration 30 23 472 146 1,993 26 87 44 2,821
Contingent consideration – 2 – – 152 – – – 154
Net purchase consideration 30 25 472 146 2,145 26 87 44 2,975
GSK Annual Report 2009281P–19P
stnemetats
laicnaniF
148
Notes to the financial statements
38 Acquisitions and disposals continued
2008
Acquisitions continued
Sirtris Pharmaceuticals Inc.
On 5th June 2008, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Sirtris Pharmaceuticals Inc., a biopharmaceutical company
based in Massachusetts, USA for a cash consideration of £376 million. The company is focused on discovering and developing proprietary,
orally available, small molecule drugs with the potential to treat diseases associated with ageing, including metabolic diseases such
as Type 2 diabetes. Sirtris’ drug candidates are designed to mimic certain beneficial health effects of calorie restriction by activation of
sirtuins, a recently discovered class of enzymes that Sirtris believes control the ageing process. This transaction has been accounted for
by the purchase method of accounting. The goodwill arising on the acquisition reflects the potential for enabling GSK to enhance its
metabolic, neurology, and immuno-inflammation research efforts by establishing a world-leading presence in the sirtuin field, aided by
the existence in the company of a highly experienced development team that encompasses all aspects of sirtuin biology.
Sirtris Pharmaceuticals Inc. had a turnover of £nil and a loss after tax of £25 million for the year, of which £nil of turnover and £14 million
of loss after tax related to the period since acquisition and are included in the Group accounts.
Book Fair value Fair
value adjustment value
£m £m £m
Net assets acquired
Intangible assets – 106 106
Property, plant and equipment 2 – 2
Other assets including cash and cash equivalents 86 – 86
Deferred tax provision – (21) (21)
Other liabilities (39) – (39)
49 85 134
Goodwill – 242 242
Total consideration 49 327 376
Bristol Myers Squibb (Egypt)
On 14th October 2008, the Group acquired the Egyptian mature products business of Bristol Myers Squibb (BMS) for a cash consideration
of £140 million of this amount £10 million is deferred with payment being made when alternative supply arrangements are established.
The Group acquired 20 branded products that occupy leading market positions in four therapeutic disease areas in Egypt, including
Duricef (antibiotic); Capozide and Capoten (ACE inhibitors); Theragran-H (iron supplement) and Kenacomb (topical steroid). Total sales of
this combined mature products pharmaceuticals business in 2007 were $48.5 million. The Group will also take ownership of BMS’s high
quality manufacturing facility in Giza (Greater Cairo) that will continue to supply the acquired products. The Group will have the ability to
export generic versions of the acquired products to markets outside of Egypt, thereby creating a further opportunity to drive sales growth
in the Middle East and North Africa region and this fact is reflected in the goodwill arising on the acquisition. The business had a turnover
of £25 million and a profit after tax of £4 million for the year, of which £4 million of turnover and £0.2 million of profit after tax are
related to the period since acquisition and are included in the Group accounts.
Book Fair value Fair
value adjustment value
£m £m £m
Net assets acquired
Intangible assets – 65 65
Property, plant and equipment 9 9 18
Inventory 5 – 5
14 74 88
Goodwill – 52 52
Total consideration 14 126 140
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
149
Notes to the financial statements
38 Acquisitions and disposals continued
If Sirtris and BMS (Egypt) had been acquired at the beginning of 2008, combined Group turnover for the year would have been
£24,373 million and combined Group profit for the year would have been £4,705 million.
Shionogi-
Euclid SR GlaxoSmithKline
Cash flows Sirtris BMS (Egypt) Partners LP Holdings, L.P. Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Cash consideration 376 130 2 6 1 515
Cash and cash equivalents acquired (52) – – – – (52)
Net cash payment on acquisitions 324 130 2 6 1 463
Euclid SR Partners, LP
During 2008, an additional £2 million was invested in Euclid SR Partners, LP, an associate in which the Group has a 38.6% share.
Shionogi-GlaxoSmithKline Holdings, L.P.
During 2008, an additional £6 million was invested in Shionogi-GlaxoSmithKline Holdings, L.P., a joint venture in which the Group has
a 50% share.
2007
Acquisitions
Reliant Pharmaceuticals Inc.
On 18th December 2007, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Reliant Pharmaceuticals Inc., a pharmaceutical
company based in the USA for a cash consideration of £814 million. The company specialises in the development and marketing of
speciality medicines to combat heart disease which includes the US rights to Lovaza, a treatment for adult patients with very high levels
of triglycerides. This transaction has been accounted for by the purchase method of accounting. The goodwill arising on the acquisition
reflects the potential for product growth throughout the USA and Puerto Rico and the expected synergies for the Group.
Reliant Pharmaceuticals Inc. had a turnover of £276 million and a profit after tax of £8 million for the year, of which £8 million of
turnover and £1 million of profit after tax related to the period since acquisition and are included in the Group accounts.
Book Fair value Fair
value adjustment value
£m £m £m
Net assets acquired
Intangible assets 13 600 613
Property, plant and equipment 2 4 6
Other assets including cash and cash equivalents 80 16 96
Deferred tax provision – (175) (175)
Other liabilities (75) (1) (76)
20 444 464
Goodwill – 350 350
Total consideration 20 794 814
GSK Annual Report 2009281P–19P
stnemetats
laicnaniF
150
Notes to the financial statements
38 Acquisitions and disposals continued
Domantis Limited
On 5th January 2007, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Domantis Limited, a drug discovery company based in the
UK for a cash consideration of £234 million. The company is developing the next generation of antibody therapies. This transaction has
been accounted for by the purchase method of accounting. The goodwill arising on the acquisition reflects the potential for combining the
world-leading technology of Domantis with the development programme already in place within GSK to put the Group at the forefront of
biotechnology. Domantis Limited had a turnover of £nil and a loss after tax of £10 million for the year, of which £nil of turnover and
£9 million of loss after tax related to the period since acquisition and are included in the Group accounts.
Book Fair value Fair
value adjustment value
£m £m £m
Net assets acquired
Intangible assets – 51 51
Property, plant and equipment 1 – 1
Other assets including cash and cash equivalents 19 – 19
Deferred tax provision – (14) (14)
Other liabilities (4) – (4)
16 37 53
Goodwill – 181 181
Total consideration 16 218 234
Praecis Pharmaceuticals Inc.
On 16th February 2007, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Praecis Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a biopharmaceutical
company based in the USA, for a cash consideration of £39 million. The company has developed a more efficient method of identifying
drug leads targeting human disease using proprietary technology. This transaction has been accounted for by the purchase method of
accounting. Praecis Pharmaceuticals Inc. had a turnover of £nil and a loss after tax of £11 million for the year, of which £nil of turnover
and £9 million of loss after tax related to the period since acquisition and are included in the Group accounts.
Book Fair value Fair
value adjustment value
£m £m £m
Net assets acquired
Intangible assets – 7 7
Property, plant and equipment 1 – 1
Other assets including cash and cash equivalents 25 – 25
Deferred tax asset – 10 10
Other liabilities (6) – (6)
20 17 37
Goodwill – 2 2
Total consideration 20 19 39
Reliant Domantis Praecis Other Total
Cash flows £m £m £m £m £m
Cash consideration 814 234 39 1 1,088
Cash and cash equivalents acquired (20) (16) (24) – (60)
Net cash payment on acquisitions 794 218 15 1 1,028
If Reliant, Domantis and Praecis had been acquired at the beginning of the year, combined Group turnover for the year would have been
£22,984 million and combined Group profit for the year would have been £5,314 million.
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
151
Notes to the financial statements
39 Commitments
2009 2008
Contractual obligations and commitments £m £m
Contracted for but not provided in the financial statements:
Intangible assets 12,280 13,048
Property, plant and equipment 416 489
Investments 86 56
Purchase commitments 82 145
Business combinations – 227
Pensions 1,460 597
Other commitments 52 46
Interest on loans 10,733 11,868
Finance lease charges 16 18
25,125 26,494
The commitments related to intangible assets include milestone payments, which are dependent on successful clinical development or on
meeting specified sales targets, and which represent the maximum that would be paid if all milestones, however unlikely, are achieved.
The amounts are not risk-adjusted or discounted. As the majority of the intangible commitments are denominated in US dollars,
the weakening of foreign currencies during the year has led to an decrease in the commitments reported above. A number of
commitments were made in 2009 under licensing and other agreements, including arrangements with Chroma Therapeutics Limited,
Concert Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Idenix Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Prosensa B.V. and Seattle Genetics, Inc.
In 2009, GSK reached an agreement with the trustees of the UK pension schemes to make additional contributions to eliminate the
pension deficit identified at the 31st December 2008 actuarial funding valuation. The table above shows this commitment, but excludes
the normal ongoing annual funding requirement of approximately £150 million.
The Group also has other commitments which principally relate to revenue payments to be made under licences and other alliances.
Commitments in respect of future interest payable on loans are disclosed before taking into account the effect of interest rate swaps.
2009 2008
Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases £m £m
Rental payments due within one year 111 140
Rental payments due between one and two years 72 109
Rental payments due between two and three years 50 76
Rental payments due between three and four years 21 54
Rental payments due between four and five years 14 22
Rental payments due after five years 69 47
Total commitments under non-cancellable operating leases 337 448
40 Post balance sheet events
On 17th February 2010, GSK received a Complete Response letter from the FDA regarding the new drug application for Horizant
Extended Release tablets for restless legs syndrome. The letter indicated that questions remained that precluded the approval of Horizant
for restless legs syndrome at that time. GSK is evaluating the letter and considering the appropriate next steps. The Group’s intangible
assets include £85 million in relation to this compound. It is not yet possible to determine the amount, if any, of any impairment that may
be recorded in future periods, pending completion of a full analysis of the situation.
GSK Annual Report 2009281P–19P
stnemetats
laicnaniF
152
Notes to the financial statements
41 Financial instruments and related disclosures These borrowings, together with cash generated from operations,
GlaxoSmithKline plc reports in Sterling and pays dividends out are on-lent, contributed as equity to certain subsidiaries or used to
of Sterling profits. The role of Corporate Treasury is to manage pay dividends and make acquisitions. GSK did not make any share
and monitor our external and internal funding requirements repurchases in 2009.
and financial risks in support of our strategic objectives. Treasury Total capital (equity and net debt) of the Group has increased from
activities are governed by policies and procedures approved by the £18,491 million in 2008 to £20,186 million in 2009. The increase
Board of Directors, most recently on 1st October 2009. of £1,695 million principally represents the retained profit for the
A Treasury Management Group (TMG) chaired by our Chief Financial year offset by actuarial losses on defined benefit pension plans
Officer, meets on a monthly basis to review treasury activities. and a reduction in net debt. Net debt reduced compared with
Its members receive management information relating to treasury 2008 primarily as a consequence of GSK’s decision to suspend
activities. Our internal auditors review the Treasury internal control share repurchases in 2009. The Group’s positive cash generation
environment regularly. along with the issuance of a €1.6 billion bond under our EMTN
programme and $1 billion of commercial paper was sufficient
GSK uses a variety of financial instruments to finance its operations to repay maturing short-term debt and finance the Group’s
and derivative financial instruments to manage risks from these acquisitions in the year whilst also increasing the Group’s overall
operations. These derivatives, principally comprising forward cash position at 31st December 2009.
foreign currency contracts, interest rate and currency swaps, are
Liquidity risk
used to swap borrowings and liquid assets into currencies required
for Group purposes and to manage exposure to funding risks from We manage our net borrowing requirements through a portfolio of
changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates. long-term borrowings, including bonds, together with short-term
finance under the US$10 billion commercial paper programme.
GSK does not hold or issue derivatives for speculative purposes
The commercial paper programme is backed by $3.9 billion of
and our Treasury policies specifically prohibit such activity.
committed facilities. The facilities were last renewed in October
All transactions in financial instruments are undertaken to
2009. We consider this level of committed facilities to be adequate
manage the risks arising from underlying business activities,
given our current cash holdings. For further information on these
not for speculation.
facilities, please refer to Note 32 to the financial statements,
Capital management ‘Net debt’. We also benefit from strong positive cash flow from
operating units.
We manage our capital to ensure that entities in the Group are
able to operate as going concerns and to optimise return to We have a European Medium Term Note programme of
shareholders through an appropriate balance of debt and equity. £15 billion. At 31st December 2009, we had £8.5 billion of
The Board reviews the Group’s dividend policy and funding notes in issue under this programme. We also have a US shelf
requirements annually. registration statement. At 31st December 2009, we had $11 billion
(£6.9 billion) of notes in issue under this programme. The TMG
The capital structure of the Group consists of net debt
monitors the cash flow forecast on a monthly basis.
(see Note 32, ‘Net debt’) and shareholders’ equity
(see ’Consolidated statement of changes in equity‘ on page 97). The long-term borrowings mature at dates between 2012 and
2042. Our long-term debt ratings have remained stable since
We continue to expect investment opportunities to arise that will
February 2008. Currently we are rated A+ stable outlook by
allow the Group to invest in support of its strategic priorities.
Standard and Poor’s and A1 stable outlook by Moody’s.
To ensure we have sufficient flexibility to take advantage of these
Our short-term debt ratings are A-1 and P-1 with Standard and
opportunities we do not currently expect to make significant share
Poor’s and Moody’s respectively. repurchases in 2010. Investment opportunities will continue to be
assessed against strict financial criteria.
As well as our committed facilities we also had substantial cash
GSK operates on a global basis, primarily through subsidiary and liquid investments, which amounted to £6.8 billion at
companies established in the markets in which we trade. 31st December 2009. We also benefit from strong positive cash
With significant levels of patent or trademark protection, our flow from operating units.
pharmaceutical products compete largely on product efficacy or
differentiation rather than on price.
Selling margins are sufficient to cover normal operating costs and
our operations are cash generative.
Operating cash flow is used to fund investment in research and
development of new products. It is also used to make the routine
outflows of capital expenditure, tax, dividends, repayment of
maturing debt and, to the extent determined by the Board,
share repurchases.
Our policy is to borrow centrally, using a variety of capital
market issues and borrowing facilities, to meet anticipated
funding requirements.
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
153
Notes to the financial statements
41 Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Market risk
Interest rate risk management
The policy on interest rate risk management limits the amount of floating interest payments to a prescribed percentage of trading profit.
We use an interest rate swap to redenominate one of our external borrowings into the interest rate coupon required by GSK.
The duration of this swap matches the duration of the principal instrument. Interest rate derivative instruments are accounted for as fair
value or cash flow hedges of the relevant assets or liabilities.
Foreign exchange risk management
Foreign currency transaction exposures arising on internal and external trade flows are not hedged. The exposure of overseas operating
subsidiaries to transaction risk is minimised by matching local currency income with local currency costs. For this purpose, our internal
trading transactions are matched centrally and we manage intercompany payment terms to reduce foreign currency risk. Exceptional
foreign currency cash flows are hedged selectively under the management of Corporate Treasury. We manage the cash surpluses or
borrowing requirements of subsidiary companies centrally using forward contracts to hedge future repayments back into the originating
currency.
We seek to denominate borrowings in the currencies of our principal assets and cash flows. These are primarily denominated in US
dollars, Euros and Sterling. Certain borrowings are swapped into other currencies as required. Borrowings denominated in, or swapped
into, foreign currencies that match investments in overseas Group assets may be treated as a hedge against the relevant assets. Forward
contracts are also used in major currencies to reduce our exposure to our investment in overseas Group assets (see ‘Net investment
hedges’ section of this note for further details). The TMG reviews the ratio of borrowings to assets for major currencies monthly.
Credit risk
The Group considers its maximum credit risk to be £13,434 million (2008 – £13,265 million) which is the total of the Group’s
financial assets with the exception of ’Other investments’ which do not bear credit risk. See page 155 for details on the Group’s
total financial assets.
GSK’s greatest concentration of credit risk is £1.3 billion (2008 – £1.9 billion) invested in US Treasury and Treasury repo only money
market funds which bear credit exposure to the US Government.
Treasury-related credit risk
In 2009, credit risk remained high during the global credit crisis. GSK has continued to maintain its conservative approach to counterparty
risk throughout this period. A report on relationship banks and their credit ratings is presented annually to the TMG for approval.
The aggregate credit risk in respect of financial instruments the Group may have with one counterparty is limited by reference to the
long-term credit ratings assigned for that counterparty by Moody’s and Standard and Poor’s. The table below sets out the credit ratings
of counterparties for liquid investments, cash and cash equivalents and derivatives. The gross asset position on each derivative contract
is considered for the purpose of this table, though, under the ISDA contracts, the amount at risk is the net asset position with each
counterparty.
Credit rating of counterparty
2009 Aaa/AAA Aa2/AA Aa3/AA- A1/A+ A2/A Baa2/BBB Baa3/BBB- Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Bank balances and deposits 793 1,385 1,359 1,467 102 27 73 5,206
US Treasury and Treasury repo only money market funds 1,305 – – – – – – 1,305
Corporate debt instruments – – 10 – – – – 10
Government securities 237 – – 43 – – 12 292
3rd party financial derivatives – 48 32 106 – – – 186
Total 2,335 1,433 1,401 1,616 102 27 85 6,999
Credit rating of counterparty
2008 Aaa/AAA Aa2/AA Aa3/AA- A1/A+ A2/A Baa2/BBB Baa3/BBB- Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Bank balances and deposits 64 1,025 646 1,981 32 – 27 3,775
US Treasury and Treasury repo only money market funds 1,852 – – – – – – 1,852
Corporate debt instruments – – 75 – – – – 75
Government securities 231 – – 49 – – 32 312
3rd party financial derivatives – 160 210 540 – – – 910
Total 2,147 1,185 931 2,570 32 – 59 6,924
The credit ratings in the above tables are as assigned by Moody’s Investor Services and Standard and Poor’s respectively. Where the
opinion of the two rating agencies differ, GSK assigns the lower rating of the two to the counterparty. Where local rating agency data
is the only source available, the ratings are converted to global ratings equivalent to those of Moody’s Investor Services or Standard
and Poor’s using published conversion tables. 2008 figures have been restated to reflect equivalent global or sovereign ratings where
appropriate rather than those of local ratings providers.
GSK Annual Report 2009281P–19P
stnemetats
laicnaniF
154
Notes to the financial statements
41 Financial instruments and related disclosures The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate
the fair values:
continued
Our centrally managed cash reserves amounted to £4.9 billion at • Cash and cash equivalents – approximates to the
31st December 2009, all available within 3 months. The Group carrying amount
invests centrally managed liquid assets in bank deposits, AAA/Aaa • Liquid investments – based on quoted market prices in the
rated US Treasuries and US Treasury repo only money market funds, case of marketable securities; based on principal amounts in
short term corporate debt instruments with a minimum short-term the case of non-marketable securities because of their short
credit rating of A-1/P1 and bank deposits. repricing periods
Global counterparty limits are assigned to each of GSK’s banking • Other investments – investments traded in an active market
and investment counterparties based on long-term credit ratings determined by reference to the relevant stock exchange quoted
from Moody’s and Standard and Poor’s. Corporate Treasury’s usage bid price; other investments determined by reference to the
of these limits is monitored daily by a Corporate Compliance current market value of similar instruments or by reference to
Officer (CCO) who operates independently of Corporate the discounted cash flows of the underlying net assets
Treasury. Any breach of these limits would be reported to the • Short-term loans and overdrafts – approximates to the carrying
CFO immediately. The CCO also monitors the credit rating of amount because of the short maturity of these instruments
these counterparties and, when changes in ratings occur, notifies
• Long-term loans – based on quoted market prices in the
Corporate Treasury so that changes can be made to investment
case of the Eurobonds and other fixed rate borrowings;
levels or authority limits as appropriate.
approximates to the carrying amount in the case of floating
Wholesale and retail credit risk rate bank loans and other loans
In the USA, in line with other pharmaceutical companies, the • Forward exchange contracts – based on market data and
Group sells its products through a small number of wholesalers exchange rates at the balance sheet date
in addition to hospitals, pharmacies, physicians and other groups. • Currency swaps – based on market data at the balance
Sales to the three largest wholesalers amount to approximately sheet date
85% of the Group’s US pharmaceutical sales. At 31st December
• Interest rate swaps – based on the net present value of
2009, the Group had trade receivables due from these three
discounted cash flows
wholesalers totalling £867 million (2008 – £1,067 million).
The Group is exposed to a concentration of credit risk in respect • Receivables and payables – approximates to the
of these wholesalers such that, if one or more of them encounters carrying amount
financial difficulty, it could materially and adversely affect the • Lease obligations – approximates to the carrying amount.
Group’s financial results.
Fair value of investments in GSK shares
The Group’s credit risk monitoring activities relating to these At 31st December 2009, the Employee Share Ownership Plan
wholesalers includes review of their quarterly financial information (ESOP) Trusts held GSK shares with a carrying value of
and Standard & Poor’s credit ratings, development of GSK internal £1,138 million (2008 – £1,445 million) with a fair value of
risk ratings, and establishment and periodic review of credit limits. £1,554 million (2008 – £1,657 million) based on quoted market
However, the Group believes there is no further credit risk provision price. The shares represent purchases by the ESOP Trusts to satisfy
required in excess of the normal provision for bad and doubtful future exercises of options and awards under employee incentive
debts (see Note 24, ‘Trade and other receivables’). Outside the schemes. The carrying value, which is the lower of cost or expected
USA no customer accounts for more than 5% of the trade proceeds, of these shares has been recognised as a deduction from
receivables balance. other reserves. At 31st December 2009, GSK held Treasury shares
at a cost of £6,286 million (2008 – £6,286 million) which has been
Fair value of financial assets and liabilities
deducted from retained earnings.
The table on page 155 presents the carrying amounts and the
fair values of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities at Committed facilities
31st December 2009 and 31st December 2008. The Group has committed facilities to back up the commercial
paper programme of $3.9 billion (£2.4 billion) (2008 – $3.9 billion
The fair values of the financial assets and liabilities are included
(£2.7 billion)) of 364 days duration, renewable annually.
at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a
At 31st December 2009, undrawn committed facilities totalled
current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced
$3.9 billion (£2.4 billion) (2008 – $3.9 billion (£2.7 billion)).
or liquidation sale.
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
155
Notes to the financial statements
41 Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
2009 2008
Carrying Fair Carrying Fair
value value value value
£m £m £m £m
Cash and cash equivalents 6,545 6,545 5,623 5,623
Available-for-sale investments:
Liquid investments:
– Government bonds 254 254 299 299
– other 14 14 92 92
Total liquid investments 268 268 391 391
Other investments 454 454 478 478
Loans and receivables:
Trade and other receivables and Other non-current
assets in scope of IAS 39 6,424 6,424 6,288 6,288
Held-for-trading financial assets:
Derivatives designated as accounting hedges 104 104 111 111
Other derivatives 93 93 852 852
Total financial assets 13,888 13,888 13,743 13,743
Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost:
Borrowings:
– bonds in a designated hedging relationship (6,139) (6,499) (5,693) (5,813)
– other bonds (9,178) (9,864) (9,919) (10,214)
– commercial paper (621) (621) – –
– bank loans and overdrafts (182) (182) (427) (427)
– other loans and private financing (7) (7) (12) (12)
– obligations under finance leases (130) (130) (136) (136)
Total borrowings (16,257) (17,303) (16,187) (16,602)
Trade and other payables and Other non-current
liabilities in scope of IAS 39 (6,051) (6,051) (5,452) (5,452)
Held-for-trading financial liabilities:
Derivatives designated as accounting hedges (55) (55) (638) (638)
Other derivatives (113) (113) (116) (116)
Total financial liabilities (22,476) (23,522) (22,393) (22,808)
Net financial assets and financial liabilities (8,588) (9,634) (8,650) (9,065)
GSK Annual Report 2009281P–19P
stnemetats
laicnaniF
156
Notes to the financial statements
41 Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
The following tables categorise the Group’s financial assets and liabilities held at fair value by the valuation methodology applied in
determining their fair value. Where possible, quoted prices in active markets are used (Level 1). Where such prices are not available,
the asset or liability is classified as Level 2, provided all significant inputs to the valuation model used are based on observable market
data. If one or more of the significant inputs to the valuation model is not based on observable market data, the instrument is
classified as Level 3.
Financial assets at fair value
At 31st December 2009 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
£m £m £m £m
Held–for–trading financial assets
Derivatives designated as accounting hedges – 104 – 104
Other derivatives – 93 – 93
Available–for–sale financial assets
Liquid investments 249 19 – 268
Other investments 245 – 209 454
494 216 209 919
Financial liabilities at fair value
At 31st December 2009 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
£m £m £m £m
Held–for–trading financial liabilities
Derivatives designated as accounting hedges – (55) – (55)
Other derivatives – (113) – (113)
– (168) – (168)
Movements in the year for financial instruments measured using Level 3 valuation methods are presented below:
Other
investments
£m
At 1st January 2009 159
Losses recognised in profit or loss (11)
Gains recognised in other comprehensive income 1
Additions 81
Disposals (4)
Transfers to/from Level 3 –
Exchange (17)
At 31st December 2009 209
2009
£m
Losses relating to Level 3 financial assets included in Other operating
income which are attributable to assets held at the end of the year (11)
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
157
Notes to the financial statements
41 Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Trade and other receivables and other non-current assets in scope of IAS 39
The following table reconciles financial assets within Trade and other receivables and Other non-current assets which fall within the scope
of IAS 39 to the relevant balance sheet amounts. The financial assets are predominantly non-interest earning. Other assets include tax
receivables, pension surplus balances and prepayments, which are outside the scope of IAS 39.
2009 2008
£m £m
Trade and other receivables (Note 24) 6,492 6,265
Other non-current assets (Note 22) 583 579
7,075 6,844
Analysed as:
Financial assets in scope of IAS 39 6,424 6,288
Other assets 651 556
7,075 6,844
The following table shows the age of such financial assets which are past due and for which no provision for bad or doubtful debts has
been made:
2009 2008
£m £m
Past due by 1–30 days 262 310
Past due by 31–90 days 105 154
Past due by 91–180 days 60 115
Past due by 181–365 days 54 89
Past due by more than 365 days 78 117
559 785
Amounts past due by greater than 90 days total £192 million (2008 – £321 million). Of this balance £132 million (2008 – £227 million)
relates to receivables due from state hospital authorities in certain European countries. Given the profile of our customers, including large
wholesalers and government backed agencies, no further credit risk has been identified with the trade receivables not past due other
than those balances for which an allowance has been made.
Trade and other payables and other non-current liabilities in scope of IAS 39
The following table reconciles financial liabilities within Trade and other payables and Other non-current liabilities which fall within the
scope of IAS 39 to the relevant balance sheet amounts. The financial liabilities are predominantly non-interest bearing. Accrued wages
and salaries are included within financial liabilities. Other liabilities include payments on account and tax and social security payables, which
are outside the scope of IAS 39.
2009 2008
£m £m
Trade and other payables (Note 27) (6,772) (6,075)
Other non-current liabilities (Note 30) (605) (427)
(7,377) (6,502)
Analysed as:
Financial liabilities in scope of IAS 39 (6,051) (5,452)
Other liabilities (1,326) (1,050)
(7,377) (6,502)
GSK Annual Report 2009281P–19P
stnemetats
laicnaniF
158
Notes to the financial statements
41 Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Debt interest rate repricing table
The following table sets out the exposure of the Group to interest rates on debt before and after the effect of interest rate swaps.
The maturity analysis of fixed rate debt is stated by contractual maturity and of floating rate debt by interest rate repricing dates.
For the purpose of this table, debt is defined as all classes of borrowings other than obligations under finance leases.
2009 2008
Effect of Effect of
interest interest
Debt rate swaps Total Debt rate swaps Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Floating and fixed rate debt less than one year (1,431) (990) (2,421) (901) (1,146) (2,047)
Between one and two years – – – (703) – (703)
Between two and three years (2,647) – (2,647) – – –
Between three and four years (1,548) – (1,548) (2,872) – (2,872)
Between four and five years (990) 990 – (1,728) – (1,728)
Between five and ten years (4,205) – (4,205) (4,240) 1,146 (3,094)
Greater than ten years (5,306) – (5,306) (5,597) – (5,597)
Total (16,127) – (16,127) (16,041) – (16,041)
Original issuance profile:
Fixed rate interest (14,696) 990 (13,706) (14,922) 1,146 (13,776)
Floating rate interest (1,430) (990) (2,420) (1,119) (1,146) (2,265)
Total interest bearing (16,126) – (16,126) (16,041) – (16,041)
Non-interest bearing (1) – (1) (10) – (10)
(16,127) – (16,127) (16,051) – (16,051)
Sensitivity analysis
The sensitivity analysis has been prepared on the assumption that the amount of net debt, the ratio of fixed to floating interest rates of
the debt and derivatives portfolio and the proportion of financial instruments in foreign currencies are all constant and on the basis of the
hedge designations in place at 31st December.
Financial instruments affected by market risk include borrowings, deposits and derivative financial instruments. The following analyses are
intended to illustrate the sensitivity of such financial instruments to changes in relevant foreign exchange and interest rates.
Foreign exchange sensitivity
The table below shows the Group’s sensitivity to foreign exchange rates on its US dollar, Euro and Yen financial instruments excluding
obligations under finance leases and certain non-derivative financial instruments not in net debt and which do not present a material
exposure. These three currencies are the major foreign currencies in which GSK’s financial instruments are denominated. GSK has
considered movements in these currencies over the last three years and has concluded that a 20% movement in rates is a reasonable
benchmark. In this table, financial instruments are only considered sensitive to foreign exchange rates where they are not in the
functional currency of the entity that holds them. Intercompany loans which are fully hedged to maturity with a currency swap have
been excluded from this analysis.
2009 2008
Increase/(decrease) Reduction Increase/(decrease) Reduction
in income in equity in income in equity
£m £m £m £m
20% appreciation of the US dollar 251 755 210 991
20% appreciation of the Euro 8 1,779 (20) 1,760
20% appreciation of the Yen – 45 1 52
A 20% depreciation of the stated currencies would have an equal and opposite effect. The movements in the income statement relate
primarily to hedging instruments for US dollar legal provisions, and to trade payables and trade receivables. Whilst the hedging instruments
provide economic hedges, the related provisions are not financial instruments and therefore are not included in the table above.
The combined sensitivity of these hedging instruments and the provisions would be insignificant if the provisions were included.
The movements in equity relate to foreign exchange positions used to hedge Group assets denominated in US dollar, Euro and Yen.
Therefore, a depreciation on the currency swap would give rise to a corresponding appreciation on the Group asset. Foreign exchange
sensitivity on Group assets other than financial instruments is not included above.
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
159
Notes to the financial statements
41 Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Interest rate sensitivity
The table below shows the Group’s sensitivity to interest rates on its floating rate Sterling, US dollar and Euro financial instruments,
being the currencies in which GSK has historically issued debt and held investments. GSK has considered movements in these interest
rates over the last three years and has concluded that a 2% increase is a reasonable benchmark. Debt with a maturity of less than one
year is floating rate for this calculation. A 2% movement in interest rates is not deemed to have a material effect on equity.
2009 2008
Increase/(decrease) Increase/(decrease)
in income in income
£m £m
2% increase in Sterling interest rates (2) 16
2% increase in US dollar interest rates 38 13
2% increase in Euro interest rates 18 4
These interest rates could not be decreased by 2% as they are currently less than 1.0%. The maximum increase/(decrease) in income
would therefore be limited to £1 million, (£4 million) and (£2 million) for Sterling, US Dollar and Euro interest rates respectively
(2008 – (£16 million), (£1 million) and (£4 million)). Interest rate movements on obligations under finance leases, foreign currency
derivatives, trade payables, trade receivables and other financial instruments not in net debt do not present a material exposure to the
Group’s balance sheet based on a 2% increase or decrease in these interest rates.
Contractual cash flows for non-derivative financial liabilities and derivative instruments
The following is an analysis of the anticipated contractual cash flows including interest payable for the Group’s non-derivative financial
liabilities on an undiscounted basis. For the purpose of this table, debt is defined as all classes of borrowings except for obligations
under finance leases. Interest is calculated based on debt held at 31st December without taking account of future issuance. Floating rate
interest is estimated using the prevailing interest rate at the balance sheet date. Cash flows in foreign currencies are translated using spot
rates at 31st December.
Finance charge Trade and
Obligations on obligations other
Interest on under finance under finance payables not
At 31st December 2009 Debt debt leases leases in net debt Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Due in less than one year (1,431) (757) (40) (4) (5,828) (8,060)
Between one and two years – (753) (32) (6) (161) (952)
Between two and three years (2,655) (754) (24) (2) (28) (3,463)
Between three and four years (1,553) (594) (14) (2) (14) (2,177)
Between four and five years (932) (536) (5) (1) (5) (1,479)
Between five and ten years (4,230) (2,088) (15) (1) (15) (6,349)
Greater than ten years (5,382) (5,251) – – – (10,633)
Gross contractual cash flows (16,183) (10,733) (130) (16) (6,051) (33,113)
Finance charge Trade and
Obligations on obligations other
Interest on under finance under finance payables not
At 31st December 2008 Debt debt leases leases in net debt Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Due in less than one year (907) (790) (48) (5) (5,246) (6,996)
Between one and two years (704) (767) (35) (4) (68) (1,578)
Between two and three years – (757) (27) (3) (25) (812)
Between three and four years (2,885) (757) (14) (2) (32) (3,690)
Between four and five years (1,736) (582) (4) (2) (5) (2,329)
Between five and ten years (4,156) (2,373) (8) (2) (76) (6,615)
Greater than ten years (5,678) (5,850) – – – (11,528)
Gross contractual cash flows (16,066) (11,876) (136) (18) (5,452) (33,548)
GSK Annual Report 2009281P–19P
stnemetats
laicnaniF
160
Notes to the financial statements
41 Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
The following table provides an analysis of the anticipated contractual cash flows for the Group’s derivative instruments, excluding
embedded derivatives and equity options which are not material, using undiscounted cash flows. Cash flows in foreign currencies are
translated using spot rates at 31st December.
2009 2008
Receivables Payables Receivables Payables
£m £m £m £m
Less than one year 33,779 (33,606) 36,105 (37,738)
Between one and two years 124 (136) 184 (204)
Between two and three years 581 (593) 110 (120)
Between three and four years 42 (54) 521 (532)
Between four and five years – (6) 35 (46)
Greater than five years – – – (6)
Gross contractual cash flows 34,526 (34,395) 36,955 (38,646)
Derivative financial instruments and hedging programmes
The following table sets out the fair values of derivatives held by GSK.
2009 2008
Fair value Fair value
Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities
£m £m £m £m
Cash flow hedges – Cross currency swaps
(principal amount – £nil (2008 – £481 million)) – – – (37)
Fair value hedges – Interest rate swaps
(principal amount – £932 million (2008 – £1,042 million)) 68 – 107 –
Net investment hedges – Foreign exchange contracts
(principal amount – £(7,756) million (2008 – £(12,848) million)) 36 (55) 4 (601)
Derivatives designated as accounting hedges 104 (55) 111 (638)
Foreign exchange contracts
(principal amount – £8,568 million (2008 – £12,093 million)) 89 (108) 837 (108)
Embedded and other derivatives 4 (5) 15 (8)
Derivatives not designated as accounting hedges 93 (113) 852 (116)
Total derivative instruments 197 (168) 963 (754)
Analysed as:
Current 129 (168) 856 (752)
Non-current 68 – 107 (2)
Total 197 (168) 963 (754)
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
161
Notes to the financial statements
41 Financial instruments and related 42 Employee share schemes
disclosures continued The Group operates share option schemes, whereby options are
granted to employees to acquire shares or ADS in GlaxoSmithKline
Derivative financial instruments
plc at the grant price, savings-related share option schemes and
The principal amount on foreign exchange contracts is share award schemes. In addition, GSK operates the Performance
calculated based on outstanding positions at the balance sheet Share Plan, whereby awards are granted to employees to acquire
date, calculated net by currency and buy/sell side position. shares or ADS in GlaxoSmithKline plc at no cost, subject to the
The majority of contracts are for periods of 12 months or less. achievement by the Group of specified performance targets and
the Share Value Plan, whereby awards are granted to employees
At 31st December 2009, the Group held outstanding foreign
to acquire shares or ADS in GlaxoSmithKline plc at no cost after a
exchange contracts consisting primarily of currency swaps with a
three year vesting period. The granting of restricted share awards
total credit fair value of £19 million (2008 – £729 million debit)
has replaced the granting of options to certain employees as the
which represent hedges of inter-company loans and deposits, but
cost of the scheme more readily equates to the potential gain to
are not designated as accounting hedges. Changes in fair value are
be made by the employee.
taken to profit and loss in the period to offset the exchange gains
and losses on the related inter-company lending and borrowing. Grants under share option schemes are normally exercisable
Cash flow hedges between three and ten years from the date of grant. Grants of
restricted shares and share awards are normally exercisable at the
The Group had entered into two cross currency swaps and
end of the three year vesting/performance period. Grants under
designated them as a cash flow hedge converting fixed Euro
savings-related share option schemes are normally exercisable
interest on Euro debt within the Group’s Japanese subsidiary,
after three years’ saving. Options under the share option schemes
payable annually, to fixed Yen payments. The bond and swaps
are granted at the market price ruling at the date of grant.
matured on 3rd June 2009. The risk being hedged was the
In accordance with UK practice, the majority of options under the
variability of cash flows arising from currency fluctuations.
savings-related share option schemes are granted at a price 20%
No ineffectiveness was recorded on the hedge. The amounts
below the market price ruling at the date of grant. Share options
recognised in comprehensive income were reclassified to the
awarded to the Directors and, with effect from the 2004 grant, the
income statement to offset the exchange gains or losses in the
CET are subject to performance criteria.
same period on the underlying bond as a result of revaluation
at the relevant reporting date.
Fair value hedges
The Group has designated an interest rate swap as a fair value
hedge. The risk being hedged is the variability of the fair value of
the bond arising from interest rate fluctuations. Gains and losses
on fair value hedges are disclosed in Note 12, ‘Finance costs’.
Net investment hedges
Foreign exchange contracts have been designated as net
investment hedges in respect of the foreign currency translation
risk principally arising on consolidation of the Group’s net
investment in its US dollar, Euro and Yen foreign operations.
In addition, Euro loan capital issued during 2009 of €1.6 billion,
and €4.25 billion from previous years, has been designated as a
monetary net investment hedge in respect of the foreign currency
translation risk principally arising on consolidation of the Group’s
net investment in its Euro operations. Net investment hedge
ineffectiveness is disclosed in Note 11, ‘Finance income’.
GSK Annual Report 2009281P–19P
stnemetats
laicnaniF
162
Notes to the financial statements
42 Employee share schemes continued
Option pricing
For the purposes of valuing options and awards to arrive at the share based payment charge, the Black-Scholes option pricing model has
been used. The assumptions used in the model for 2007, 2008 and 2009 are as follows:
2009 2008 2007
Risk-free interest rate 1.4% – 2.9% 1.3% – 4.8% 4.7% – 5.3%
Dividend yield 5.2% 4.8% 4.0%
Volatility 23% – 29% 19% – 24% 17% – 25%
Expected lives of options granted under:
Share option schemes 5 years 5 years 5 years
Savings-related share option and share award schemes 3-4 years 3 years 3 years
Weighted average share price for grants in the year:
Ordinary Shares £11.72 £11.59 £14.41
ADS $33.73 $45.02 $57.59
Volatility is determined based on the three and five year share price history where appropriate. The fair value of performance share plan
grants take into account market conditions. Expected lives of options were determined based on weighted average historic exercises
of options.
Options outstanding Share option Share option Savings-related
schemes – shares schemes – ADS share option schemes
Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted
Number exercise fair Number exercise fair Number exercise fair
000 price value 000 price value 000 price value
At 1st January 2007 156,703 £15.22 88,431 $48.02 8,173 £11.11
Options granted 10,587 £14.82 £3.07 8,624 $57.58 $10.93 3,212 £10.50 £2.87
Options exercised (9,863) £12.10 (18,149) $44.27 (1,140) £9.74
Options lapsed (8,386) £15.64 (1,632) $50.90 (1,707) £11.33
At 31st December 2007 149,041 £15.38 77,274 $49.91 8,538 £11.02
Options granted 11,314 £11.50 £1.32 7,690 $44.89 $3.84 5,570 £9.51 £2.56
Options exercised (2,198) £11.84 (1,989) $42.18 (453) £10.26
Options lapsed (21,602) £16.52 (7,497) $53.13 (2,401) £10.67
At 31st December 2008 136,555 £14.93 75,478 $49.29 11,254 £10.38
Options granted 11,393 £11.76 £1.16 7,741 $33.68 $3.41 1,648 £9.72 £2.22
Options exercised (2,660) £11.80 (353) $37.03 (1,460) £11.34
Options lapsed (21,269) £17.18 (9,447) $55.64 (3,377) £11.09
At 31st December 2009 124,019 £14.32 73,419 $46.88 8,065 £9.77
Range of exercise prices £10.76 – £19.40 $33.42 – $58.88 £9.51 – £11.45
Weighted average market
price on exercise £12.33 $40.48 £12.04
Weighted average remaining
contractual life 4.12 years 4.77 years 2.3 years
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
163
Notes to the financial statements
42 Employee share schemes continued
In order to encourage employees to convert options, excluding savings-related share options, held over Glaxo Wellcome or SmithKline
Beecham shares or ADS, into those over GlaxoSmithKline shares or ADS, a programme was established to give an additional cash benefit
of 10% of the exercise price of the original option provided that the employee did not voluntarily leave the Group for two years from the
date of the merger and did not exercise the option before the earlier of six months from the expiry date of the original option and two
years from the date of the merger. The cash benefit will also be paid if the options expire unexercised if the market price is below the
exercise price on the date of expiry.
Share option Share option Savings-related
Options outstanding schemes – shares schemes – ADS share option schemes
at 31st December 2009 Weighted Latest Weighted Latest Weighted Latest
Number exercise exercise Number exercise exercise Number Exercise exercise
Year of grant 000 price date 000 price date 000 price date
2000 12,367 £14.89 10.09.10 279 $58.88 09.08.10 – – –
2001 32,944 £18.13 25.11.11 20,828 $51.85 28.11.11 – – –
2002 13,469 £11.97 03.12.12 5,605 $37.66 03.12.12 – – –
2003 18,595 £12.67 13.12.13 10,333 $43.54 16.12.13 – – –
2004 6,080 £11.23 02.12.14 6,128 $43.16 02.12.14 – – –
2005 171 £13.05 30.10.15 412 $47.32 30.10.15 – – –
2006 8,498 £14.69 25.11.16 6,848 $51.28 28.07.16 254 £11.40 25.04.10
2007 9,850 £14.81 25.07.17 8,069 $57.59 25.07.17 1,289 £10.50 24.04.11
2008 10,828 £11.50 23.07.18 7,336 $44.91 05.11.18 4,881 £9.51 22.04.12
2009 11,217 £11.76 19.07.19 7,581 $33.68 22.07.19 1,641 £9.72 21.04.13
Total 124,019 £14.32 73,419 $46.88 8,065 £9.77
Options normally become exercisable from three years from the date of grant but may, under certain circumstances, vest earlier as set out
within the various scheme rules.
There has been no change in the effective exercise price of any outstanding options during the year.
Share option Share option Savings-related
Options exercisable schemes - shares schemes - ADS share option schemes
Weighted Weighted Weighted
Number exercise Number exercise Number exercise
000 price 000 price 000 price
At 31st December 2007 129,209 £15.47 60,927 $48.70 307 £9.52
At 31st December 2008 109,207 £15.29 55,384 $48.57 3,248 £11.45
At 31st December 2009 94,967 £14.86 53,493 $47.63 254 £11.40
GSK Annual Report 2009281P–19P
stnemetats
laicnaniF
164
Notes to the financial statements
42 Employee share schemes continued
GlaxoSmithKline share award schemes
Performance Share Plan
The Group operates a Performance Share Plan whereby awards are granted to Directors and senior executives at no cost. The percentage
of each award that vests is based upon the performance of the Group over a three year measurement period. Awards granted to
Directors and members of the CET prior to 2009 are subject to a single performance condition which compares GSK’s TSR over the
period with the TSR of companies in the comparator group over the same period. For awards granted from 2009 onwards to Directors
and members of the CET, 40% of the award will be based on the achievement of adjusted free cash flow targets over a three year
measurement period. The remaining 60% of the award will be based on relative TSR performance against a comparator group as
described on pages 76 and 78. Half of the TSR element of each award will be measured over three years and half over four years.
For those awards made to all other eligible employees prior to 2009 the performance conditions consist of two parts, each of which
applies to 50% of the award. The first part of the performance condition compares GSK’s EPS growth to the increase in the UK Retail
Prices Index over the three year measurement period. The second part of the performance condition compares GSK’s TSR over the period
with the TSR of companies in the comparator group over the same period. For awards granted from 2009 onwards, the first part of the
performance condition continues to be based on EPS. The second part of the performance condition is based on strategic or operational
business measures, over a three year measurement period, specific to the employee’s business area.
Shares Weighted ADS Weighted
Number of shares and ADS issuable Number (000) fair value Number (000) fair value
At 1st January 2007 4,756 4,034
Awards granted 2,071 £10.26 1,501 $34.87
Awards exercised (147) (77)
Awards cancelled (949) (1,131)
At 31st December 2007 5,731 4,327
Awards granted 2,834 £7.77 1,467 $27.99
Awards exercised (1,519) (1,516)
Awards cancelled (511) (420)
At 31st December 2008 6,535 3,858
Awards granted 3,365 £8.80 1,392 $29.45
Awards exercised (1,270) (21)
Awards cancelled (1,024) (1,497)
At 31st December 2009 7,606 3,732
Share Value Plan
The Group operates a Share Value Plan whereby awards are granted, in the form of shares, to certain employees at no cost.
The awards vest after three years. There are no performance criteria attached.
Shares Weighted ADS Weighted
Number (000) fair value Number (000) fair value
At 1st January 2007 8,794 7,629
Awards granted 5,155 £13.22 4,231 $52.08
Awards exercised (3,643) (3,038)
Awards cancelled (672) (539)
At 31st December 2007 9,634 8,283
Awards granted 5,572 £9.85 4,640 $36.46
Awards exercised (926) (931)
Awards cancelled (592) (630)
At 31st December 2008 13,688 11,362
Awards granted 5,572 £9.86 4,291 $30.53
Awards exercised (4,345) (3,783)
Awards cancelled (680) (561)
At 31st December 2009 14,235 11,309
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
165
Notes to the financial statements
42 Employee share schemes continued
Deferred Investment Award Plan
The Group operates a Deferred Investment Award Plan whereby awards are granted, in the form of notional shares, to certain senior
executives at no cost. Awards typically vest over a three-year period commencing on the fourth anniversary from date of grant with
50% of the award initially vesting and then 25% in each of the subsequent two years. There are no performance criteria attached.
Shares Weighted ADS Weighted
Number of shares and ADS issuable Number (000) fair value Number (000) fair value
At 1st January 2007 133 65
Awards granted 95 £13.20 40 $53.40
Awards exercised – (9)
Awards cancelled (4) –
At 31st December 2007 224 96
Awards granted 334 £11.70 70 $43.80
Awards exercised (20) (20)
Awards cancelled – (27)
At 31st December 2008 538 119
Awards granted 46 £12.04 132 $31.94
Awards exercised (15) (32)
Awards cancelled (20) (10)
At 31st December 2009 549 209
Employee Share Ownership Plan Trusts
The Group sponsors Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) Trusts to acquire and hold shares in GlaxoSmithKline plc to satisfy awards
made under employee incentive plans and options granted under employee share option schemes. The trustees of the ESOP Trusts
purchase shares on the open market with finance provided by the Group by way of loans or contributions. Costs of running the ESOP
Trusts are charged to the income statement. Shares held by the ESOP Trusts are deducted from other reserves and held at the value of
proceeds receivable from employees on exercise. If there is deemed to be a permanent diminution in value this is reflected by a transfer
to retained earnings. The Trusts also acquire and hold shares to meet notional dividends re-invested on deferred awards under the
SmithKline Beecham Mid-Term Incentive Plan. The trustees have waived their rights to dividends on the shares held by the ESOP Trusts.
Shares held for share award schemes 2009 2008
Number of shares (‘000) 57,197 53,147
£m £m
Nominal value 14 13
Carrying value 217 234
Market value 755 683
Shares held for share option schemes 2009 2008
Number of shares (‘000) 60,538 75,822
£m £m
Nominal value 15 19
Carrying value 921 1,211
Market value 799 974
GSK Annual Report 2009281P–19P
stnemetats
laicnaniF
166
Notes to the financial statements
43 Principal Group companies
The following represent the principal subsidiary and associated undertakings of the GlaxoSmithKline Group at 31st December 2009.
Details are given of the principal country of operation, the location of the headquarters, the business sector and the business activities.
The equity share capital of these undertakings is wholly owned by the Group except where its percentage interest is shown otherwise.
All companies are incorporated in their principal country of operation except where stated.
Europe Location Subsidiary Sector Activity %
England Brentford +GlaxoSmithKline Holdings Limited Ph,CH h
Brentford +GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (One) Limited Ph,CH h
Brentford +GlaxoSmithKline Services Unlimited Ph,CH s
Brentford +GlaxoSmithKline Mercury Limited Ph h
Brentford GlaxoSmithKline Finance plc Ph,CH f
Brentford GlaxoSmithKline Capital plc Ph,CH f
Brentford SmithKline Beecham Limited Ph,CH d e h m p r
Brentford Wellcome Limited Ph,CH h
Brentford Glaxo Group Limited Ph h
Brentford Glaxo Operations UK Limited Ph p
Brentford GlaxoSmithKline Export Limited Ph e
Brentford GlaxoSmithKline Research & Development Limited Ph d r
Brentford GlaxoSmithKline UK Limited Ph m p
Brentford Setfirst Limited Ph,CH h
Brentford The Wellcome Foundation Limited Ph p
Cambridge Domantis Limited Ph d r
Brentford SmithKline Beecham Overseas Limited Ph h
Brentford SmithKline Beecham Holdings (UK) Limited Ph h
Brentford ViiV Healthcare Limited Ph h 85
Brentford ViiV Healthcare UK Limited Ph m s 85
Brentford ViiV Healthcare Trading Services Limited Ph e f 85
Austria Vienna GlaxoSmithKline Pharma GmbH Ph m
Belgium Genval GlaxoSmithKline S.A. Ph m
Rixensart GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals S.A. Ph d e m p r
Czech Republic Prague GlaxoSmithKline s.r.o. Ph,CH m
Denmark Orestadt GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare A/S CH m
Brøndby GlaxoSmithKline Pharma A/S Ph m
Finland Espoo GlaxoSmithKline Oy Ph m
France Marly le Roi Groupe GlaxoSmithKline S.A.S. Ph h
Marly le Roi Laboratoire GlaxoSmithKline S.A.S. Ph m r d
Marly le Roi Glaxo Wellcome Production S.A.S. Ph p
Marly le Roi GlaxoSmithKline Sante Grand Public S.A.S. CH m
St. Amand Les Eaux GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals S.A.S Ph p
Germany Buehl GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare GmbH & Co. KG CH d h m p r s
Munich GlaxoSmithKline GmbH & Co. KG Ph d h m p r s
Greece Athens GlaxoSmithKline A.E.B.E Ph,CH m
Hungary Budapest GlaxoSmithKline Medicine and Healthcare Products Limited Ph,CH e m
Italy Verona GlaxoSmithKline S.p.A. Ph d h m r
Milan GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare S.p.A. CH m
Verona GlaxoSmithKline Manufacturing S.p.A. Ph p
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
167
Notes to the financial statements
43 Principal Group companies continued
Europe Location Subsidiary Sector Activity %
Luxembourg Mamer GlaxoSmithKline International (Luxembourg) S.A.R.L Ph,CH f h
Netherlands Zeist GlaxoSmithKline B.V. Ph m
Utrecht GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare B.V. CH m
Norway Oslo GlaxoSmithKline AS Ph m
Poland Poznan GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals S.A. Ph p 97
Poznan GSK Services Sp.z o.o. Ph m
Warsaw GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Sp.z o.o. CH m e
Portugal Alges GlaxoSmithKline-Produtos Farmaceuticos, Limitada Ph m
Republic of Carrigaline SmithKline Beecham (Cork) Limited (i) Ph d p r
Ireland Cork GlaxoSmithKline Trading Services Limited (i) Ph e
Dublin GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (Ireland) Limited (i) CH m
Dublin GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited Ph m
Dungarvan Stafford Miller (Ireland) Limited (i) CH p
Dungarvan GlaxoSmithKline Dungarvan Limited (i) CH p
Romania Brasovi Europharm Holding S.A. Ph,CH s
Bucharest GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) S.R.L. Ph m r s
Russian Moscow GlaxoSmithKline Trading ZAO Ph m
Federation Moscow GlaxoSmithKline Healthcare ZAO CH m
Spain Madrid GlaxoSmithKline S.A. Ph m
Madrid GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare S.A. CH m
Aranda de Duero Glaxo Wellcome, S.A. Ph p
Sweden Solna GlaxoSmithKline AB Ph m
Switzerland Muenchenbuchsee GlaxoSmithKline AG Ph m
USA
USA Coral Gables Stiefel Laboratories, Inc. Ph h m p
Hamilton Corixa Corporation Ph m p
Philadelphia GlaxoSmithKline LLC Ph,CH d e h m p r s
Pittsburgh GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare, L.P. CH m p 88
Pittsburgh Block Drug Company, Inc. CH h m
Wilmington GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (Americas) Inc. Ph,CH h
Wilmington GlaxoSmithKline Capital Inc. Ph f
Cambridge Sirtris Pharmaceuticals Inc. Ph r
Research Triangle Park ViiV Healthcare Company Ph m 85
Americas
Bermuda Hamilton GlaxoSmithKline Insurance Ltd Ph,CH i
Canada Mississauga GlaxoSmithKline Inc. Ph m p r
Oakville GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Inc. CH m
Laval ID Biomedical Corporation Ph h
Quebec City ID Biomedical Corporation of Quebec Ph d m p r
Mexico Delegacion Tlalpan GlaxoSmithKline Mexico S.A. de C.V. Ph,CH e m p s
Puerto Rico Guaynabo GlaxoSmithKline Puerto Rico Inc. Ph m
Asia Pacific
Australia Boronia GlaxoSmithKline Australia Pty Ltd Ph,CH d e m p r
China Beijing GlaxoSmithKline (China) Investment Co. Ltd Ph,CH d h m
Hong Kong GlaxoSmithKline Limited Ph,CH m
Shanghai GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals (Shanghai) Ltd Ph m p
Tianjin Sino-American Tianjin Smith Kline & French Laboratories Ltd CH d m p r 55
GSK Annual Report 2009281P–19P
stnemetats
laicnaniF
168
Notes to the financial statements
43 Principal Group companies continued
Asia Pacific Location Subsidiary Sector Activity %
India Mumbai GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Limited Ph m p 51
Nabha GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Limited (ii) CH m p 43
Malaysia Petaling Jaya GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceutical Sdn Bhd Ph m
Selangor GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Sdn Bhd CH m
New Zealand Auckland GlaxoSmithKline NZ Limited Ph,CH m
Pakistan Karachi GlaxoSmithKline Pakistan Limited Ph,CH m p e 79
Philippines Makati GlaxoSmithKline Philippines Inc Ph,CH m
Singapore Singapore Glaxochem Pte Ltd Ph h
Singapore Glaxo Wellcome Manufacturing Pte Ltd Ph d h p r
Singapore GlaxoSmithKline Pte Ltd Ph,CH m
South Korea Seoul GlaxoSmithKline Korea Limited Ph ,CH m
Thailand Bangkok GlaxoSmithKline (Thailand) Limited Ph,CH m
Japan
Japan Tokyo GlaxoSmithKline K.K. Ph,CH d m p
Latin America
Argentina Buenos Aires GlaxoSmithKline Argentina S.A. Ph,CH d e m p r
Brazil Rio de Janeiro GlaxoSmithKline Brasil Limitada Ph,CH e m p
Colombia Bogota GlaxoSmithKline Colombia S.A. Ph,CH m
Venezuela Caracas GlaxoSmithKline Venezuela, C.A. Ph,CH m
Middle East & Africa
Egypt Cairo GlaxoSmithKline S.A.E Ph m p 91
South Africa Bryanston GlaxoSmithKline South Africa (Pty) Limited Ph,CH m p
Turkey Istanbul GlaxoSmithKline Ilaclari Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S. Ph,CH m
USA Location Associate Sector Activity %
USA Madison Quest Diagnostics Incorporated (iii) Clinical testing 17
Middle East & Africa
South Africa Johannesburg Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Limited (iii) Ph,CH m p r 19
(i) Exempt from the provisions of Section 7 of the Companies (Amendment) Act 1986 (Ireland).
(ii) Consolidated as a subsidiary undertaking in accordance with Section 1162 (4)(a) of the Companies Act 2006 on the grounds
of dominant influence.
(iii) Equity accounted on the grounds of significant influence.
+ Directly held wholly owned subsidiary of GlaxoSmithKline plc.
Key
Business sector: Ph Pharmaceuticals, CH Consumer Healthcare
Business activity: d development, e exporting, f finance, h holding company, i insurance, m marketing, p production, r research, s service
Full details of all Group subsidiary and associated undertakings will be attached to the company’s Annual Return to be filed with the
Registrar of Companies. Each of GlaxoSmithKline Capital Inc. and GlaxoSmithKline Capital plc is a wholly-owned finance subsidiary of
the company, and the company has fully and unconditionally guaranteed the securities issued by each of GlaxoSmithKline Capital Inc.
and GlaxoSmithKline Capital plc.
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
169
Notes to the financial statements
44 Legal proceedings In January 2009, Neolab filed an action to invalidate the
The Group is involved in significant legal and administrative combination patent in the Federal Court of Germany. Revocation
proceedings, principally product liability, intellectual property, actions against the combination patent in Germany have also been
tax, anti-trust and governmental investigations, as well as related filed by Mylan Dura GmbH (March 2008), Hexal AG (December
private litigation. The Group makes provision for these proceedings 2008) and Ivax (October 2009). The four revocation actions
on a regular basis as summarised in Note 2, ‘Accounting principles were heard together on 23rd February 2010. The court advised
and policies’ and Note 29, ‘Other provisions’. In respect of a the parties that a decision will be issued within a few weeks
number of legal proceedings in which the Group is involved, following the hearing. The basic patent covering the combination
it is not possible to make a reasonable estimate of the expected product in Seretide expires in September 2010 but is subject to a
financial effect, if any that will result from ultimate resolution Supplementary Protection Certificate, which extends protection
of the proceedings. In these cases, the Group may disclose until September 2013.
information with respect to the nature and facts of the cases but In July 2009, Sandoz and Hexal initiated a revocation action
no provision is typically made. Intellectual property claims include in the District Court of The Hague against the Group’s Dutch
challenges to the validity and enforceability of the Group’s patents combination patent relating to Seretide. The hearing, originally
on various products or processes as well as assertions of non- scheduled for 19th February 2010, has been rescheduled for
infringement of those patents. A loss in any of these cases could 26th November 2010. The basic patent covering the combination
result in loss of patent protection for the product at issue. product in Seretide expires in September 2010 but is subject to a
The consequences of any such loss could be a significant decrease Supplementary Protection Certificate, which extends protection
in sales of that product and could materially affect future results of until September 2013.
operations for the Group.
A revocation action against the basic patent covering the Seretide
Legal expenses incurred and provisions related to legal claims are combination in Ireland was filed in the High Court in Dublin on
charged to selling, general and administration costs. Provisions are behalf of Ivax in July 2008. The trial took place from 24th March to
made, after taking appropriate legal and other specialist advice, 12th May 2009. The High Court handed down a decision on
when a reasonable estimate can be made of the likely outcome of 26th June 2009 finding the patent invalid for obviousness.
the dispute. The Group has established an actuarially determined The decision related solely to the Irish combination patent for
provision for product liability claims incurred, but not yet reported Seretide and is not binding in any other decision. The Group filed
as described in Note 29, ‘Other provisions’. At 31st December an appeal of this decision in October 2009. No trial date has been
2009, the Group’s aggregate provision for legal and other disputes set for the appeal.
(not including tax matters described in Note 14, ‘Taxation’) was
£2.0 billion. The ultimate liability for legal claims may vary from An action for revocation of the French Seretide combination
the amounts provided and is dependent upon the outcome of patent was filed by Sandoz with the Tribunal de Grande Instance
litigation proceedings, investigations and possible settlement of Paris on 5th October 2009. No trial date has yet been set.
negotiations. The Group’s position could change over time, and The basic patent covering the combination product in Seretide
there can, therefore, be no assurance that any losses that result expires in September 2010 but is subject to a Supplementary
from the outcome of any legal proceedings will not exceed the Protection Certificate, which extends protection until
amount of the provisions reported in the Group’s financial accounts September 2013.
by a material amount. If this were to happen, it could have a Argatroban
material adverse impact on the results of operation of the Group in
In December 2007, Encysive Pharmaceuticals Inc., Mitsubishi Kasei
the reporting period in which the judgements are incurred or the
Corporation and the Group filed an action in the US District Court
settlements entered into. The most significant of those matters are
for the Southern District of New York against Barr Laboratories,
described below.
Inc. for infringement of Mitsubishi’s pharmaceutical composition
Intellectual property patent covering Argatroban. Pursuant to a license from Mitsubishi,
Encysive has developed Argatroban for the treatment of heparin-
Advair/Seretide induced thrombocytopenia and holds the New Drug Application
In October 2007, the Group filed a complaint with the Patent approved by the US FDA. Encysive has licensed the US marketing
Dispute Chamber of the Regional Court in Düsseldorf, Germany rights to Argatroban to the Group. The Mitsubishi patent
against Neolab (UK) for infringement of its German patent expires in June 2014. Barr had filed an Abbreviated New Drug
claiming compositions containing the combination of salmeterol Application (ANDA) with the FDA with a certification of invalidity,
and fluticasone propionate used in Seretide (known as Viani in unenforceability and non-infringement of the Mitsubishi patent.
Germany). The complaint was based on Neolab’s stated intention A two-week trial in the case was held in January 2010, and the
by letter to market a salmeterol/fluticasone combination product parties are awaiting a decision. FDA approval of that ANDA is
in Germany in 2008 (which event did not occur). A trial took place stayed until the earlier of May 2010 or resolution of the patent
in the Patent Dispute Chamber of the Regional Court in Düsseldorf infringement action.
in January 2009 which resulted in a permanent injunction against
Neolab. Neolab has appealed and the appeal hearing has been
scheduled for 8th July 2010.
GSK Annual Report 2009281P–19P
stnemetats
laicnaniF
170
Notes to the financial statements
44 Legal proceedings continued Combivir
Patents listed in the Orange Book for Combivir include composition
Arzerra
of matter (3TC/lamivudine), combination (lamivudine and AZT)
In October 2009, the Group filed an action in the US District Court and lamivudine crystal form patents that expire in 2010, 2012
for the Southern District of Florida for a declaration that U.S. Patent and 2016, respectively. In September 2007, the Group received
6,331,415 (the so-called ‘Cabilly II’ patent), which is owned jointly notice that Teva filed an ANDA with the FDA alleging that the
by Genentech, Inc. and City of Hope, is invalid, unenforceable, combination patent is invalid.
or not infringed by GSK’s product Arzerra (ofatumumab). Arzerra
was approved by the FDA for chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (an In November 2007, the Group filed an action in the District Court
orphan indication) in October 2009. In February 2010, the Group for the District of Delaware against Teva Pharmaceuticals USA Inc.
voluntarily dismissed the case and filed a new case in the US for infringement of the combination patent. FDA approval of Teva’s
District Court for the Northern District of California, where the ANDA is stayed until the earlier of March 2010 or resolution of the
suit is currently pending. patent infringement action favourable to Teva. The case is in the
discovery phase. In October 2008, Teva filed a certification that the
Avodart
Group’s patent covering the crystal form of lamivudine is invalid or
In January 2008, the Group received notice that Barr Laboratories not infringed. The Group did not file suit under this patent.
filed an ANDA with the FDA with an allegation of invalidity of
In July 2008, the Group received notice that Lupin Ltd. filed a
the three patents listed in the Orange Book which cover the
certification with the FDA alleging that the combination patent is
active ingredient in Avodart, and its use to treat benign prostatic
invalid or not infringed by its product. Lupin also filed a certification
hyperplasia (BPH). In February 2008, the Group filed an action in
that the Group’s patent covering the crystal form of lamivudine is
the US District Court for the District of Delaware against Barr for
invalid or not infringed.
infringement of these patents. The basic compound patent expires
in 2015. The other two patents expire in 2013. FDA approval of In August 2008, the Group filed suit against Lupin in the
Barr’s ANDA is stayed until the earlier of July 2010, or resolution District Court for the District of Delaware for infringement of its
of the patent infringement action. The parties have agreed to settle combination patent. The Group did not file suit against Lupin
this matter. The terms of the settlement are subject to review by the under the crystal form patent. In March, 2009, the action against
Federal Trade Commission and must receive final court approval. Lupin was stayed by mutual consent pending resolution of the
case against Teva. Neither Teva nor Lupin has challenged the
Benlysta
basic compound patent that covers lamivudine, one of the active
In February 2010 the UK Court of Appeal upheld an earlier High
ingredients in Combivir. That patent expires in May 2010.
Court decision revoking the HGS UK patent EP0939804. The claim
for revocation was brought by Eli Lilly in 2006 on the patent which Coreg CR
claims the cytokine BLyS and any antibody that binds to BLyS, The Group filed suit in April 2008 in the US District Court for the
such as Benlysta (belimumab). GSK has a licence to this patent Eastern District of Pennsylvania under the crystal form patent and
but was not a party to these litigation proceedings. The equivalent a patent covering the use of Coreg CR treating congestive heart
European patent was upheld in October 2009 on a final appeal failure. In October 2008, the Group filed a motion to dismiss the
from the European Patent Office following an opposition action and gave Mutual a covenant not to sue under the patents.
proceeding filed by Eli Lilly. This UK decision does not affect the Mutual cannot obtain final approval to market its generic product
other European patents arising from this same European Patent. until 20th April 2010 based upon data exclusivity granted by the
HGS and GSK are considering an appeal of this UK decision to the FDA for the product. This matter has now concluded.
UK Supreme Court. This decision does not affect GSK or HGS’s
Hiberix, Infanrix Hexa and Menitorix
freedom to market and sell Benlysta.
On 3rd August 2009, Novartis sued the Group in Belgium for
Boniva
patent infringement in relation to Hiberix, Infanrix Hexa, and
The Group participated in the marketing of Boniva pursuant to a Menitorix vaccine products and in relation to phase 3 development
co-promotion agreement with Roche, which expired in January vaccine projects HibMenCY and MenACWY. Parallel infringement
2010. In September 2007, Roche Laboratories commenced proceedings were also filed by Novartis in the UK for Infanrix Hexa,
actions in the US District Court for the District of New Jersey Menitorix and Hiberix. The European Patent Office granted the
against eight generic drug manufacturers. In each case, Roche Group’s request for an accelerated review to reconsider the validity
alleged infringement of Roche patents relating to Boniva tablets. of the patent and in December 2009, all Novartis claims relevant
Each of the defendants had filed an ANDA with the FDA with a to the Group’s products were held invalid. The UK and Belgian
certification of invalidity, unenforceability or non-infringement infringement trials will be dismissed.
of at least one of the Roche patents. Two manufacturers have
Levitra
challenged the basic compound patent, which expires in 2012.
Final FDA approval of those ANDAs is stayed until the earlier of The Group participates in the marketing of Levitra pursuant to a
November 2010 or resolution of the relevant patent infringement co-promotion agreement with Bayer Healthcare. In July 2009, Bayer
action. In August 2008, Roche obtained a new patent on the brought suit against Teva in the US District Court for the District
monthly dosing regimen for Boniva and brought suit against all of Delaware against Teva Pharmaceuticals, Inc. for infringement of
ANDA filers that were challenging its patents. The new patent its patent relating to Levitra. Teva had filed an ANDA with the FDA
expires in 2023. The cases are ongoing. with a certification that the patent covering the active ingredient
in Levitra, which expires in 2018, is invalid, unenforceable or not
infringed. A stay against FDA approval will be in effect until the
earlier of a decision in the case adverse to Bayer or November 2011.
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
171
Notes to the financial statements
44 Legal proceedings continued Treximet
Lovaza In October 2008, the Group received a letter from Par
In March 2009, the Group received notice that Teva Pharmaceuticals Pharmaceuticals that the FDA had accepted its ANDA for Treximet,
USA, Inc., Par Pharmaceutical, Inc., and Apotex Inc., had filed which included a certification that patents owned by Pozen,
ANDAs with a certification that two patents covering Lovaza are Inc. relating to Treximet were invalid, unenforceable and/or not
invalid, unenforceable, or not infringed. The patents expire in 2013 infringed. Pozen’s patents are licensed to the Group. In November
and 2017. The Group is the licensee under these patents. Pronova 2008, Pozen filed suit against Par under three of its patents in the
Biopharma Norge AS, the owner of the patents, sued Teva, Par and District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. In November 2008,
Apotex in the US District Court for the District of Delaware. FDA the Group received a letter from Alphapharm and its designated
approval of the ANDAs will be stayed until the earlier of May 2012 agent, Mylan Pharmaceuticals, that the FDA had accepted its
or a decision favourable to one of the generics. ANDA for Treximet, which included a certification that Pozen’s
patents relating to Treximet were invalid, unenforceable and/or not
Malarone
infringed. Pozen filed suit against Alphapharm and Mylan in January
In August 2009 the Group filed suit in the US District Court 2009 for infringement of its patents in the District Court for the
for the District of Delaware against Glenmark Generics Inc. Eastern District of Texas and Delaware. The Delaware case has since
USA for infringement of its patents related to Malarone. been dismissed. In 2009, Pozen also sued Teva Pharmaceuticals
The Group had received notification that Glenmark had filed USA, Inc. and Dr. Reddy’s under the same patents in the same court.
an ANDA for Malarone, with certification alleging that the Treximet has data exclusivity that precludes approval of a generic
Group’s patents were invalid, unenforceable, or not infringed. product until April 2011. The Group is not a party to any of the
These patents, which expire in 2014, cover the combination of lawsuits brought by Pozen.
atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride and its use for preventing
malaria. FDA approval of Glenmark’s ANDA is stayed until the Valtrex
earlier of January 2012 or a judgment adverse to GSK. In July 2009, Apotex Inc. filed a complaint for a declaratory
judgment in the District Court for the Middle District of North
Paxil/Seroxat
Carolina that Apotex’s valacyclovir product did not infringe a
In the USA a number of manufacturers or distributors of generic formulation patent owned by the Group for Valtrex. Apotex filed
Paxil filed applications with the FDA to market their generic versions a para iv certification in 2008 challenging this patent and GSK did
prior to the expiration in 2007 of the Group’s patent on paroxetine not file suit challenging the certificate. GSK filed a response to
hyrdrochloride hemihydrate. Of these actions, only one remains this declaratory judgment complaint in August 2009 and did not
pending, namely an action against Apotex in the US District Court contest the non-infringement allegation. In October 2009, Apotex
for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania on patents with composition filed a motion for judgment. The matter is pending a decision on
of matter and process of manufacture claims. An anti-trust the motion. In November 2009, Ranbaxy launched the first generic
counterclaim has been asserted by Apotex, as discussed under product for valacyclovir.
‘Anti-trust’ on page 175. The case has now been set for trial in
April 2010. Vesicare
The Group markets Vesicare under license from Astellas
In Europe, generic products containing paroxetine hydrochloride
Pharma Inc. In September 2009, Astellas filed suit against Teva
are now on the market in most European countries. The Group’s
Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. in the Federal District Court for the
Netherlands patent infringement action against Farmaceutisch
Southern District of New York for infringement of its patent
Analytisch Laboratorium Duiven B.V. (FAL), and FAL’s counterclaims
covering the active ingredient in Vesicare. Astellas had received
for unfair competition, was settled in July 2009.
notice that Teva Pharmaceuticals had filed an ANDA with a
Following the litigation in Canada with Apotex over several certification that the basic patent, which expires in 2018, was
patents related to paroxetine, Apotex launched its generic product invalid or unenforceable. FDA approval of Teva’s ANDA is stayed
in Canada in October 2003. Apotex has now alleged that as a until the earlier of February 2012 or a decision in the case
result of that litigation it had been enjoined from launching that favourable to Teva.
product after receipt of regulatory approval. An action by Apotex
to recover damages related to the delay occasioned by those Product liability
injunctions is ongoing. Pre-clinical and clinical trials are conducted during the development
of potential products to determine the safety and efficacy of
Requip XL
products for use by humans following approval by regulatory
In January 2009, the Group received letters from Impax
bodies. Notwithstanding these efforts, when drugs and vaccines
Laboratories, Inc. and Actavis South Atlantic LLC indicating that
are introduced into the marketplace, unanticipated safety issues
their ANDAs for Requip XL had been accepted by the FDA.
may become evident. The Group is currently a defendant in
The letters included an allegation that the patent licensed by the
a number of product liability lawsuits related to the Group’s
Group from SkyePharma covering the extended release formulation
pharmaceutical and consumer healthcare products. The most
was not infringed by their products. Additional ANDAs were
significant of those matters are described on pages 172 and 173.
filed in 2009 by Torrent Pharmaceuticals and Lupin Ltd. with
certifications that the formulation patent was not infringed.
The Group did not bring suits against these companies.
GSK Annual Report 2009281P–19P
stnemetats
laicnaniF
172
Notes to the financial statements
44 Legal proceedings continued In the claims and lawsuits alleging that treatment with Paxil has
caused homicidal or suicidal behaviour exhibited by users of
Avandia the product, class certification was denied in January 2007 in
The Group has been named in product liability lawsuits on behalf a purported personal injury class action lawsuit. Cases remain
of individuals and purported class action cases asserting consumer pending in federal and state courts. The cases filed in Philadelphia
fraud and/or personal injury claims on behalf of purchasers and have been coordinated in the Mass Tort Program.
users of Avandia. The federal cases are part of a multi-district
With respect to the lawsuits filed in state and federal courts in
litigation proceeding pending in the US District Court for the Eastern
the USA and Canada alleging that Paxil is addictive and causes
District of Pennsylvania. Cases have also been filed in state courts.
dependency and withdrawal reactions, virtually all the US actions
Cases filed in Philadelphia have been coordinated in the Mass Tort
have now been resolved. A California court granted plaintiffs’
Program. These matters are in the discovery phase, with the first trial
motion to certify a class in a consumer fraud lawsuit seeking only
scheduled for June 2010. Additionally, a purported nationwide class
economic damages, focused on discontinuation symptoms.
action suit was filed in February 2009 in the US District Court for the
In Canada, the Quebec court denied plaintiffs motion to certify
Eastern District of Pennsylvania on behalf of all third party payers
a class of patients who allegedly experienced discontinuation
seeking economic damages under various state unfair trade practices
symptoms. That decision is on appeal. In the UK, public funding
and consumer protection laws. Plaintiffs have indicated that they will
has been granted for hundreds of patients to pursue common
be filing an amended complaint in the future.
issues in litigation alleging that paroxetine has caused them to
Finally, one purported class action has been filed in Israel, and suffer from withdrawal reactions and dependency. The trial is
briefing of whether to certify the class action is underway. scheduled to commence in January 2011.
Ten class actions are pending in Canada, and are at an early stage.
Poligrip
Baycol A number of product liability lawsuits and claims have been filed
The Group and Bayer Corporation, the principal US subsidiary against the Group in both state and federal courts in the USA,
of Bayer AG, have signed an allocation agreement under which including purported class actions, alleging that the zinc in Poligrip
Bayer Corporation has agreed to pay 95% of all settlements and causes copper depletion and permanent neurologic injury.
compensatory damages judgments, with each party retaining The first lawsuit alleging neurologic injuries from zinc in Poligrip
responsibility for its own attorneys’ fees and any punitive damages. was filed in August 2005. The federal cases are part of the Denture
The federal cases have been consolidated in a multi-district litigation Cream Adhesive multi-district litigation in the US District Court
proceeding in the US District Court for the District of Minnesota. for the Southern District of Florida which was established in June
The multi-district litigation is in the process of winding down, with 2009. Both the Group and Procter & Gamble are defendants in this
less than 10 plaintiffs remaining. To date two statewide class actions litigation. Included in the MDL are purported class actions asserting
have been certified – a medical monitoring case in Pennsylvania economic loss claims under state consumer protection laws and
and a Consumer Fraud and Deceptive Business Practices Act case claims for medical monitoring. With one exception (a state court
in Illinois. The medical monitoring action was dismissed by the case in Arkansas), all of the state court cases have been consolidated
court on summary judgment, and the Supreme Court of Illinois in the Mass Tort Program in Philadelphia. A purported class action
likewise dismissed the consumer fraud claim on summary judgment asserting consumer fraud claims was recently filed in Canada.
in December 2009. A nationwide class of third-party payers was On 18th February 2010, the Group announced that it was voluntarily
certified by a Pennsylvania state court. That case settled before withdrawing all zinc-containing formulations of Poligrip.
trial. Another class action, in which the Group was not named as
Thimerosal
a defendant, had been certified in Oklahoma. That case has been
decertified, and the deadline for appealing the decertification order The Group, along with a number of other pharmaceutical
has passed. More than 3,100 claims for death or serious injury have companies, has been named as a defendant in numerous individual
been settled and thousands of others alleging muscle aches and personal injury lawsuits in state and federal district courts in
pains have been voluntarily or involuntarily dismissed. the USA alleging that thimerosal, a preservative used in the
manufacture of vaccines, causes neurodevelopmental disorders
Paxil and Paxil CR and other injuries, including autism.
The Group has received numerous lawsuits and claims alleging
Two of the cases are purported class actions, although there
that use of Paxil (paroxetine) has caused a variety of injuries.
has been no determination whether any of those cases will be
Many of these lawsuits and claims allege that the use of Paxil
permitted to proceed as a class action. A number of purported
during pregnancy resulted in the birth of a child with birth defects
class actions in other jurisdictions have been withdrawn or
or health issues. Other lawsuits and claims allege that patients
dismissed. Plaintiffs seek remedies including compensatory, punitive
who took Paxil committed or attempted to commit suicide and/
and statutory damages as well as the cost of a fund for medical
or acts of violence. Finally, a third group of lawsuits and claims
monitoring and research.
allege that the use of Paxil caused patients to suffer symptoms on
discontinuing treatment with Paxil. As of the date of this report, in the limited number of cases
that have approached trial dates, vaccine manufacturers and
The cases filed in Philadelphia alleging injury during pregnancy
manufacturers of other thimerosal containing medicinal products
have been coordinated in the Philadelphia Mass Tort Program. In
have been successful in excluding testimony of plaintiffs’ expert
October 2009, the first trial resulted in an adverse jury verdict in
witnesses on causation, specifically on grounds that plaintiffs have
the amount of $2.5 million (Kilker v. GlaxoSmithKline). No punitive
failed to establish that the hypothesised link between thimerosal
damages were awarded. Post-trial motions are pending. The Group
and neurodevelopmental disorders is generally accepted as reliable
also has purported class action litigation in Canada concerning use
within the relevant scientific community.
of Paxil during pregnancy.
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
173
Notes to the financial statements
44 Legal proceedings continued Average wholesale price
The United States Department of Justice, a number of states and
Additionally, in February 2009, the Office of Special Masters of
putative classes of private payers have for several years now been
the United States Court of Federal Claims rejected the first three
investigating and/or bringing civil litigation regarding allegations
of approximately 4,900 autism claims filed under the National
that numerous pharmaceutical companies, including GSK, have
Vaccine Injury Compensation Program (NVICP) on the grounds that
violated federal or state fraud and abuse laws as a result of the
claimants failed to produce reliable scientific evidence linking their
way ‘average wholesale price’ (AWP) and ‘wholesale acquisition
vaccinations to their medical conditions, including autism.
cost’ (WAC) have been determined and reported for various drugs
The Group was not a party to these proceedings. The findings from reimbursed under the Medicare, Medicaid and other insurance
them cannot be used as evidence in the pending lawsuits against programmes. In 2005 the Group reached a $149 million civil
the Group. All three decisions were upheld on appeal by the United settlement with the federal government to resolve allegations
States Court of Federal Claims. Two of the three NVICP claimants relating to the pricing and marketing of Zofran and Kytril. The
now have appealed the rulings to the US Court of Appeals for the Group also amended its existing corporate integrity agreement
Federal Circuit. The third claimant has elected not to appeal further as a requirement of the settlement. In 2007, the Group received
and has rejected the decision from the NVICP. This claimant now final approval of a $70 million nationwide private payer class
has the option of filing an action either against the Group and/or action settlement relating to the Group’s price reporting in an MDL
the physician who administered the vaccine in question. As of this proceeding in the US District Court for the District of Massachusetts.
date, no such action has been commenced.
A number of states, through their respective attorneys general,
The remaining approximately 4,900 NVICP claimants also will and most of the counties in New York State have filed civil
ultimately have the option of pursuing personal injury lawsuits lawsuits in state and federal courts against GSK and many
against the vaccine manufacturers, including the Group. It is too other drug companies claiming damages and restitution due to
early to determine whether the announcement of the NVCIP AWP and/or WAC price reporting for pharmaceutical products
decisions is likely to lead to an increase in the number of civil cases covered by the states’ Medicaid programmes. The states seek
filed against the Group. As of the date of this report, there are no recovery on behalf of the states as payers and, in some cases,
cases scheduled for trial in 2010 in which the Group is a defendant. on behalf of in-state patients as consumers.
The Group has separately resolved AWP claims by state Medicaid
Sales and marketing and regulation
programmes in more than two-thirds of the states through the
Marketing and promotion
DOJ Settlement or separate negotiations. Litigation concerning
In February 2004, the Group received a subpoena from the US AWP issues is continuing with eight states, as well as with New
Attorney’s office in Colorado regarding the Group’s sales and York counties. In July 2008, an Alabama state court jury returned
promotional practices relating to nine of its largest selling products, an $81 million verdict against the Group in one such case filed
for the period from January 1997 to 2004. In particular, the by the State of Alabama. In October 2009 the Alabama Supreme
government has inquired about alleged promotion of these drugs Court reversed the jury verdict and rendered judgment in GSK’s
for off-label uses, as well as Group-sponsored continuing medical favour. The court expressly found that GSK had not defrauded
education programmes, other speaker events, special issue boards, the Alabama Medicaid programme. In January 2010 the Alabama
advisory boards, speaker training programmes, clinical studies Supreme Court declined Alabama’s petition for reconsideration of
and related grants, fees, travel and entertainment. Although the the reversal.
original subpoena was issued from the US Attorney’s office in
In November 2009 a Kentucky state court jury returned a
Colorado, the scope of the inquiry is nationwide.
$661,860 compensatory damages only verdict against the Group
The government is also inquiring about the Group’s response to in another such case filed by the State of Kentucky. The jury found
an October 2002 letter from the FDA’s Division of Drug Marketing, the Group liable for violating the state’s consumer protection laws,
Advertising and Communication requesting information on the but not liable under the state’s Medicaid fraud and false advertising
Group’s alleged promotion of Wellbutrin SR for off-label use. The statutes. In January 2010 the judge in the case awarded the State
Group is co-operating with the investigation and providing the of Kentucky an additional $5,828,000 in statutory penalties. The
requested information. Group is considering whether to appeal.
Following a United Nations report alleging that bribes had been Nominal pricing
paid to Iraqi government officials in connection with the UN Oil The Group responded to two letter requests from the US Senate
for Food Programme, the Group received a subpoena from the Committee on Finance, dated April 2004 and February 2005, for
SEC in February 2006 in respect of the Group’s participation in documents and information relating to the nominal price exception
that programme. The US Department of Justice also initiated an to the best price reporting requirements under the Medicaid Drug
investigation. In December 2007, the UK Serious Fraud Office Rebate Programme. In January 2007, the committee released its
issued a formal notice to the Group requiring production of findings that some pharmaceutical manufacturers inappropriately
documents related to the Group’s participation in the programme. used the nominal price exception contrary to the committee’s
The Group is co-operating with the investigations and has provided interpretation of Congressional intent. In May 2004, the Group
documents responsive to the subpoena and the notice, and was advised by the US Department of Justice that it is investigating
continues to respond to follow up questions and requests. certain of the Group’s nominal pricing and bundled sales
arrangements to determine whether those arrangements qualify
under the exception to the best price reporting requirements or
violate civil statutes or laws.
GSK Annual Report 2009281P–19P
stnemetats
laicnaniF
174
Notes to the financial statements
44 Legal proceedings continued Cidra, Puerto Rico manufacturing site
In October 2007 the Group announced plans to cease
In March 2008, the Group received a broad letter request from the
operations at its manufacturing facilities located in Cidra,
US Department of Justice seeking a range of documents relating
Puerto Rico. On 30th July 2009; the Cidra site ceased operations
to all of the Group’s nominal pricing arrangements since 1994 and
and commenced decommissioning activities. The remaining
any possible bundled sales. The Group is continuing to co-operate
operational staffs were released on 30th September 2009.
in the investigation and produce documents. The Group has also
On 6th October 2009, the US District Court for the Eastern
received subpoenas and requests for documents and information
District of North Carolina entered an order vacating the Consent
from Delaware and Michigan related to the Group’s nominal price
Decree to which the Group and the FDA agreed regarding the
arrangements. The Group is cooperating in those investigations
Group’s manufacturing operations at the site. The Group has
and producing responsive documents. In addition to these
completed decommissioning activities and is currently pursuing
governmental investigations, allegations concerning the nominal
opportunities to sell the site to a third party.
pricing have been made by certain government payers as part of
the AWP litigation. The Group has not entered into any nominal In October 2003, the US federal government executed a search
price arrangements since December 2003. warrant at the Cidra facility and seized records relating to the
manufacturing operations at the site.
340B Programme
The Group is defending an action filed in federal court in the In April 2005, the Group received a subpoena from the US
US District Court for the Northern District of California by the Attorney’s Office in Boston requesting production of records
County of Santa Clara and one other county, which seeks to regarding manufacturing at the Cidra site, covering information
represent a putative class of hospitals, clinics and other entities that is similar to that seized by the US government in Puerto
in California that are eligible to receive discounted ‘ceiling Rico in 2003. Subsequently, the Group received additional
prices’ on pharmaceuticals under a federal programme known subpoenas from the government related to the Cidra facility.
as the ‘340B Programme’. Plaintiffs allege that the Group and The Group is co-operating with the US Attorney’s Office and
numerous other pharmaceutical manufacturers have been producing the records responsive to the subpoenas. In addition,
setting ‘ceiling prices’ higher than allowed by law and, under in July 2007, the Group learned that the US District Court for
the contract that governs the programme, and have therefore the District of Massachusetts had unsealed a complaint brought
overcharged the entities in California that are eligible to by a former employee under the federal False Claims Act
participate in the 340B Programme. The lawsuit was dismissed claiming monetary damages as a result of the alleged failure
in 2006. It was reinstated in August 2008 following an appeal. of the Cidra facility to comply with FDA Good Manufacturing
It is now being actively litigated at the trial court level. Part of Processes (GMPs) in the manufacture of various products.
plaintiffs’ claim is that the defendants miscalculated ‘Average
The Group is also named in two purported consumer fraud class
Manufacturer Prices’ (AMPs) and ‘Best Prices’ (BPs) under the
action lawsuits – one filed in California state court and the other
Medicaid rebate program which, because they form part of
in the US District Court for the District of Puerto Rico – alleging
the ‘ceiling price’ formula, resulted in inflated ‘ceiling prices.’
that Paxil products were not manufactured according to GMP.
Defendants have asserted, and continue to assert, that these
Plaintiffs sought economic, statutory and punitive damages,
plaintiffs are not entitled to challenge the calculation of AMPs
along with a request for injunctive relief. In the summer of
and BPs as part of this lawsuit. 2008, the Group reached a tentative agreement to settle these
Paxil/Seroxat matters. The settlement covers nationwide classes of consumer
Following the Group’s 2004 settlement of a lawsuit filed by purchasers and third party payers. It provides a claims procedure
the New York State Attorney General’s office alleging failure to for class members to receive payment only for split/defective
disclose data on the use of Paxil in children and adolescents, Paxil CR tablets. The settlement received final trial court approval
similar cases, some of which purported to be class actions, in September 2009. Objectors to the settlement filed appeals,
were filed by private plaintiffs seeking to recover amounts paid but the appeals were dismissed in February 2010. Accordingly,
for Paxil purchased for use by patients under the age of 18. the settlement has become final and effective in accordance
Following a class settlement with consumers in 2007, the US with its terms. Under the settlement agreement, the consumer
District Court for the District of Minnesota in 2008 approved fraud class action lawsuits will be dismissed with prejudice.
a $40 million class settlement of ensuing lawsuits seeking The related third party payer suit filed in the Philadelphia Court
recovery on behalf of insurance companies and other third-party of Common Pleas was marked as settled, discontinued and
payers for payments for prescriptions of Paxil to children and ended as of 5th October 2009.
adolescents. The Group denied liability in both settlements. In
2009, a similar purported class action was filed in US District
Court for the District of Minnesota on behalf of all federal, state
and local government entities that paid for prescriptions of Paxil
to minors. There also remains a similar purported class action
in Canada seeking economic damages on behalf of individuals,
third party payers and governmental entities that purchased
Paxil for use by patients under the age of 18.
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
175
Notes to the financial statements
44 Legal proceedings continued Secondary wholesaler
In July 2006, RxUSA Wholesale, Inc., a ‘secondary wholesaler’,
Anti-trust
filed suit against the Group and many other pharmaceutical
Paxil/Seroxat
manufacturers and wholesalers in the US District Court for
The trial date for the remaining patent infringement the Eastern District of New York. The complaint alleges that
action brought by the Group against Apotex and Apotex’s the defendants engaged in a conspiracy to refuse to supply
counterclaim remains set for 15th April 2010 in the US District pharmaceutical products to RxUSA in violation of federal
Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. In this matter, and state anti-trust laws. The Group’s motion to dismiss the
the Group seeks substantial damages for Apotex’s alleged complaint was granted. The plaintiff has filed an appeal.
infringement of one of the Group’s patents on paroxetine
Wellbutrin XL
hydrochloride, and Apotex in turn seeks damages from the
Group in an amount substantially larger than the damages Actions have been filed against Biovail and GSK by purported
sought by the Group, for alleged violations of federal anti-trust classes of direct and indirect purchasers who allege unlawful
laws, as well as those involving advertising and state anti-trust monopolisation and other anti-trust violations related to the
and consumer protection laws. Under the federal anti-trust enforcement of Biovail’s Wellbutrin XL patents and the filing,
laws, the damages sought by Apotex would be trebled in the by Biovail, of citizen petitions. The Group’s motion to dismiss
event of an adverse jury verdict against the Group. On the amended complaint of the indirect purchasers was granted
2nd December 2009, the Court ordered that the Group and in respect of some, but not all, of the claims of the class
Apotex engage in mediation to attempt to reach settlement on representatives and many of the claims asserted by the indirect
the patent infringement claim and the counterclaim . purchasers. The case has proceeded to discovery with respect
to the remaining claims as well as the ones brought by the
EU sector inquiry
purported class of direct purchasers.
In January 2008, the European Commission announced an inquiry
Flonase
into certain aspects of competition in the pharmaceutical sector
and initiated inspections at the premises of a number of innovator Purported direct and indirect purchaser class actions have
and generic pharmaceutical companies, including the Group. been filed in the US District Court for the Eastern District of
The Commission published a preliminary report in November Pennsylvania alleging the Group illegally maintained monopoly
2008 based on information provided to it by innovator and generic power in the ‘market’ for Flonase and charged plaintiffs supra-
pharmaceutical companies. The report suggests that defensive competitive prices. Additionally, a suit has been filed by Roxane
patenting strategies may lead to obstacles to innovation and that Laboratories, Inc., a generic competitor, seeking lost profits from
innovator companies employ measures to hinder generics coming the Group’s alleged actions unlawfully delaying Roxane’s entry
onto the market. The final report was issued in July 2009. into the market. The predicate for all of these allegations was
While not contradicting the preliminary report the final report the filing by the Group of allegedly sham citizen petitions and
conceded that delays in generic entry was as much the fault of subsequent litigation. The Group has successfully narrowed the
the regulatory environment as innovator companies’ defensive claims of the purported class of indirect purchasers through
strategies. In this report, the Commission stated that it did not motions to dismiss their complaint and amended complaints.
attack legitimate patenting practices and identified areas for follow The Group’s motion to dismiss Roxane’s complaint was recently
up scrutiny by the Commission and recommended regulatory denied. Discovery with regard to all parties is scheduled to
reform and improvement. conclude in Q1 2010.
Wellbutrin SR Commercial and corporate
In December 2004, January 2005 and February 2005, lawsuits, Securities class actions
several of which purported to be class actions, were filed in the In November 2007, attorneys purporting to represent a class
US District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania against of purchasers of GlaxoSmithKline shares and ADS filed an
the Group on behalf of direct and indirect purchasers amended consolidated complaint against the Group and senior
of Wellbutrin SR. The complaints allege violations of US officers in the US District Court for the Southern District of New
anti-trust laws through sham litigation and fraud on the patent York. It alleged that the Group and the individual defendants
office by the Group in obtaining and enforcing patents covering violated US securities laws and artificially inflated the price of
Wellbutrin SR. The complaints followed the introduction of GlaxoSmithKline’s stock by misleading investors about the safety
generic competition to Wellbutrin SR in April 2004, after district of Avandia. The amended consolidated complaint also alleges
and appellate court rulings that a generic manufacturer did not that several current and former senior officers and members
infringe the Group’s patents. While a class of direct purchasers of the Group engaged in insider trading. A motion to dismiss
has been certified, no decision has yet been made by the the complaint has been filed on behalf of the Group and the
Court with regard to certification of an indirect purchaser class. individual defendants. In May 2008, the District Court entered
Discovery has been substantially completed and the Group’s an order dismissing the case as to all defendants. Plaintiffs filed
motion for summary judgment remains pending. an appeal with the US Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.
In August 2009, the Court of Appeals affirmed the District
Court’s dismissal. This matter has now concluded.
GSK Annual Report 2009281P–19P
stnemetats
laicnaniF
176
Notes to the financial statements
44 Legal proceedings continued A third case, filed in the US District Court for the District of
Arizona in November 2008, sought to establish a nationwide
On 6th July 2009, a class action suit brought on behalf of
collective action on behalf of the entire Group’s US
current and former employees of Stiefel Laboratories, Inc.,
pharmaceutical sales representatives on the ground that those
was filed in US District Court for the Southern District of
representatives were not exempt employees under the US Fair
Florida. The complaint alleges that Stiefel and its officers and
Labor Standards Act. Plaintiffs sought double damages for all
directors violated US Employee Retirement Income Security Act
overtime allegedly worked by the Group’s pharmaceutical sales
(ERISA) and federal and state securities laws by inducing Stiefel
representatives over a three year period. In November 2009,
employees to sell their shares in the employee stock plan back
the Court granted the Group’s motion for summary judgment
to Stiefel company at a greatly undervalued price and without
and dismissed the lawsuit on the ground that the sales
disclosing to employees that Stiefel was about to be sold.
representatives were ‘exempt’ employees under the outside
In January, defendants’ motion to dismiss was granted in part
sales exemption to the US Fair Labor Standards Act. Plaintiffs
and denied in part. Specifically, while the Court determined that
asked the Court to reconsider and amend its judgment based
the ERISA claims against the individual Stiefel defendants as well
on the rationale advanced by the US Department of Labor in
as the federal securities claims against the individual defendants
a brief the Department had filed in a case involving another
and Stiefel could go forward, the Court dismissed the Florida
company. On 1st February 2010, the Court reaffirmed its
Securities Act and common law breach of fiduciary duty claims
dismissal the action. Plaintiffs subsequently filed a notice that
holding that ERISA pre-empts state and common law, as well as
they are appealing the decision to the US Court of Appeals for
a malpractice claim against Stiefel’s former accountants.
the Ninth Circuit.
Wage and hour claims
Environmental matters
In December 2006, two purported class actions were filed
GSK has been notified of its potential responsibility relating
against the Group on behalf of the entire Group’s US
to past operations and its past waste disposal practices at
pharmaceutical sales representatives. These actions, which were
certain sites, primarily in the USA. Some of these matters are
filed in or transferred to the US District Court for the Central
the subject of litigation, including proceedings initiated by
District of California, initially alleged that those representatives
the US federal or state governments for waste disposal, site
are not ‘exempt’ employees under California law and/or the
remediation costs and tort actions brought by private parties.
US Fair Labor Standards Act and are consequently entitled to
overtime pay, among other things. GSK has been advised that it may be a responsible party at
approximately 29 sites, of which 14 appear on the National
Plaintiffs subsequently amended their complaints to
Priority List created by the Comprehensive Environmental
assert a class action, limited solely to pharmaceutical sales
Response Compensation and Liability Act (Superfund).
representatives working in California, and only asserting claims
These proceedings seek to require the operators of hazardous
under California’s wage and hour laws.
waste facilities, transporters of waste to the sites and generators
The suits seek a variety of compensatory, punitive and statutory of hazardous waste disposed of at the sites to clean up the
damages. The Group moved for summary judgement dismissing sites or to reimburse the government for cleanup costs. In most
the claims of the putative class representatives on the ground instances, GSK is involved as an alleged generator of hazardous
that they were exempt employees. The Court held that there waste. Although Superfund provides that the defendants are
are appeals pending in the United States Court of Appeals for jointly and severally liable for cleanup costs, these proceedings
the Ninth Circuit in cases involving other manufacturers ‘with are frequently resolved on the basis of the nature and quantity
virtually the same factual and legal arguments’. It therefore of waste disposed of by the generator at the site. GSK’s
deferred ruling on the summary judgement motion and stayed proportionate liability for cleanup costs has been substantially
any further activity in the case until the appellate court rules in determined for about 20 of the sites referred to above.
at least one of the other companies’ pending cases.
GSK’s potential liability varies greatly from site to site. While the
cost of investigation, study and remediation at such sites could,
over time, be substantial, GSK routinely accrues amounts related
to its share of the liability for such matters.
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
177
Directors’ statement of responsibilities
Directors’ statement of responsibilities in Disclosure of information to auditors
relation to the company’s financial statements The Directors in office at the date of this Report have each
confirmed that:
The Directors are responsible for preparing the parent company
financial statements and the Remuneration Report in accordance • so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit
with applicable law and regulations. information of which the company’s auditors are unaware;
and
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements
for each financial year. Under that law the Directors have elected • he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have
to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any
with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards relevant audit information and to establish that the company’s
(United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice). Under auditors are aware of that information.
company law the Directors must not approve the parent company
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance
financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true
with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
and fair view of the state of affairs of the company for that period.
Going concern basis
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are
required to: After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable
expectation that the company has adequate resources to continue
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply
in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason,
them consistently;
they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the
• make judgements and accounting estimates that are financial statements.
reasonable and prudent; The Combined Code
• state that with regard to the parent company financial The Board considers that GlaxoSmithKline plc applies the Main
statements that applicable UK Accounting Standards have Principles of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance of
been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed the Financial Reporting Council, as described under ‘Corporate
and explained in the financial statements. governance’ on pages 54 to 72, and has complied with its
provisions except as described on page 71.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting
records that are sufficient to show and explain the company’s As required by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority,
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the the auditors have considered the Directors’ statement of
financial position of the company and to enable them to ensure compliance in relation to those points of the Combined Code
that the parent company financial statements comply with the which are specified for their review.
Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding
the assets of the company and hence for taking reasonable steps
for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Sir Christopher Gent
The parent company financial statements for the year ended
Chairman
31st December 2009, comprising the balance sheet for the year
24th February 2010
ended 31st December 2009 and supporting notes, are set out
on pages 179 to 182 of this report.
The responsibilities of the auditors in relation to the parent
company financial statements are set out in the Independent
Auditors’ report (page 178).
The financial statements for the year ended 31st December 2009
are included in the Annual Report, which is published in hard copy
printed form and made available on the website. The Directors
are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Annual
Report on the company’s website in accordance with UK legislation
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial
statements. Access to the website is available from outside
the UK, where comparable legislation may be different.
GSK Annual Report 2009281P–19P
stnemetats
laicnaniF
178
Independent Auditors’ report
to the members of GlaxoSmithKline plc
We have audited the parent company financial statements of Matters on which we are required to report
GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year ended 31st December 2009 by exception
which comprise the Company Balance Sheet – UK GAAP and
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters
the related notes A-H. The financial reporting framework that
where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in
has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and
our opinion:
United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice). • adequate accounting records have not been kept by the
parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not
Respective responsibilities of directors
been received from branches not visited by us; or
and auditors
• the parent company financial statements and the part of
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in
set out on page 177, the directors are responsible for the agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
preparation of the parent company financial statements and for
• certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law
being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility
are not made; or
is to audit the parent company financial statements in accordance
• we have not received all the information and explanations we
with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing
require for our audit.
(UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the
Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. Other matters
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of
only for the company’s members as a body in accordance with GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year ended 31st December 2009.
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other
The Company has passed a resolution in accordance with section
purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume
506 of the Companies Act 2006 that the senior statutory auditor’s
responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to
name should not be stated.
whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save
where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
assurance that the financial statements are free from material
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an
London
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to
24th February 2010
the parent company’s circumstances and have been consistently
applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant
accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall
presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion the parent company financial statements:
• give a true and fair view of the state of the company’s
affairs as at 31st December 2009;
• h ave been properly prepared in accordance with United
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
• h ave been prepared in accordance with the requirements of
the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the
Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited
has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies
Act 2006; and
• t he information given in the Directors’ Report for the
financial year for which the parent company financial
statements are prepared is consistent with the parent
company financial statements.
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
179
Company balance sheet – UK GAAP
at 31st December 2009
2009 2008
Notes £m £m
Fixed assets – investments D 19,632 19,560
Debtors E 736 965
Cash at bank 9 8
Current assets 745 973
Creditors: amounts due within one year F (3,068) (5,303)
Net current liabilities (2,323) (4,330)
Net assets 17,309 15,230
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital G 1,416 1,415
Share premium account G 1,368 1,326
Other reserves H 1,255 1,216
Profit and loss account H 13,270 11,273
Equity shareholders’ funds 17,309 15,230
Approved by the Board on 24th February 2010.
Sir Christopher Gent
Chairman
GlaxoSmithKline plc
Registered number: 3888792
GSK Annual Report 2009281P–19P
stnemetats
laicnaniF
180
Notes to the company balance sheet – UK GAAP
A Presentation of the financial statements Expenditure
Description of business Expenditure is recognised in respect of goods and services received
GlaxoSmithKline plc is the parent company of GSK, a major global when supplied in accordance with contractual terms. Provision is
healthcare group which is engaged in the creation and discovery, made when an obligation exists for a future liability in respect of a
development, manufacture and marketing of pharmaceutical past event and where the amount of the obligation can be
products, including vaccines, over-the-counter (OTC) medicines reliably estimated.
and health-related consumer products. Investments in subsidiary companies
Preparation of financial statements Investments in subsidiary companies are held at cost less any
The financial statements, which are prepared on a going concern provision for impairment.
basis, are drawn up in accordance with UK generally accepted Impairment of investments
accounting principles (UK GAAP) and with UK accounting
The carrying value of investments are reviewed for impairment
presentation as at 31st December 2009, with comparative figures
when there is an indication that the investment might be impaired.
as at 31st December 2008. Where appropriate, comparative figures
Any provision resulting from an impairment review is charged to
are reclassified to ensure a consistent presentation with current
the income statement in the year concerned.
year information.
Share based payments
As permitted by s.408 of the Companies Act 2006, the profit and
The issuance by the company to its subsidiaries of a grant over
loss account of the company is not presented in this Annual Report.
the company’s options, represents additional capital contributions
Accounting convention and standards by the company in its subsidiaries. An additional investment in
The balance sheet has been prepared using the historical cost subsidiaries results in a corresponding increase in shareholders’
convention and complies with applicable UK accounting standards. equity. The additional capital contribution is based on the fair
value of the grant issued, allocated over the underlying grant’s
Accounting principles and policies
vesting period.
The preparation of the balance sheet in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management Taxation
to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid
amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent applying tax rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted
assets and liabilities at the date of the balance sheet. by the balance sheet date.
Actual amounts could differ from those estimates.
The company accounts for taxation which is deferred or
The balance sheet has been prepared in accordance with the accelerated by reason of timing differences which have originated
company’s accounting policies approved by the Board and but not reversed by the balance sheet date. Deferred tax assets are
described in Note B. only recognised to the extent that they are considered recoverable
against future taxable profits.
B Accounting policies
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are
Foreign currency transactions
expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are
Foreign currency transactions are recorded at the exchange rate
expected to reverse. Deferred tax liabilities and assets are
ruling on the date of transaction, or at the forward rate if hedged
not discounted.
by a forward exchange contract. Foreign currency assets and
liabilities are translated at rates of exchange ruling at the balance Financial guarantees
sheet date, or at the forward rate. Liabilities relating to guarantees issued by the company on behalf
of its subsidiaries are held at fair value and amortised over the life
Dividends paid and received
of the guarantee.
Dividends paid and received are included in the accounts in the
period in which the related dividends are actually paid or received. C Operating profit
A fee of £11,140 (2008 – £11,440) relating to the audit of the
company has been charged in operating profit.
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
181
Notes to the company balance sheet – UK GAAP
D Fixed assets
2009 2008
£m £m
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Services Unlimited 613 613
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (One) Limited 18 18
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Holdings Limited 17,888 17,888
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Mercury Limited 33 –
18,552 18,519
Capital contribution relating to share based payments 1,080 1,041
19,632 19,560
E Debtors
2009 2008
£m £m
Amounts due within one year:
UK Corporation tax recoverable 228 268
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 116 98
344 366
Amounts due after more than one year:
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 392 599
736 965
F Creditors
2009 2008
£m £m
Amounts due within one year:
Bank overdraft 8 8
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 2,606 4,625
Other creditors 454 670
3,068 5,303
The company has guaranteed debt issued by one of its subsidiary companies for which it receives an annual fee from the subsidiary.
In aggregate, the company has issued guarantees over $11 billion of debt instruments.
The amount due from the subsidiary companies in relation to these guarantee fees will be recovered over the life of the bonds and are
disclosed within debtors (see Note E).
GSK Annual Report 2009281P–19P
stnemetats
laicnaniF
182
Notes to the company balance sheet – UK GAAP
G Share capital and share premium account
Share
Ordinary Shares of 25p each premium
Number £m £m
Share capital authorised
At 31st December 2008 10,000,000,000 2,500
At 31st December 2009 10,000,000,000 2,500
Share capital issued and fully paid
At 1st January 2008 6,012,587,026 1,503 1,266
Issued under share option schemes 5,640,119 2 60
Purchased and cancelled (356,910,908) (90) –
At 31st December 2008 5,661,316,237 1,415 1,326
Issued under share option schemes 3,812,482 1 42
At 31st December 2009 5,665,128,719 1,416 1,368
31st December 31st December
2009 2008
Number (‘000) of shares issuable under outstanding options 213,110 220,459
Number (‘000) of unissued shares not under option 4,121,761 4,118,225
At 31st December 2009, of the issued share capital, 117,735,257 shares were held in the ESOP Trust, 474,194,158 shares were held
as Treasury shares and 5,073,199,304 shares were in free issue. All issued shares are fully paid. The nominal, carrying and market
values of the shares held in the ESOP Trust are disclosed in Note 42, ‘Employee share schemes’.
H Reserves
Other Profit and
reserves loss account Total
£m £m £m
At 1st January 2008 1,071 9,287 10,358
Profit attributable to shareholders – 8,621 8,621
Dividends to shareholders – (2,929) (2,929)
Ordinary Shares purchased and cancelled 90 (3,706) (3,616)
Capital contribution relating to share based payments 55 – 55
At 31st December 2008 1,216 11,273 12,489
Profit attributable to shareholders – 5,000 5,000
Dividends to shareholders – (3,003) (3,003)
Capital contribution relating to share based payments 39 – 39
At 31st December 2009 1,255 13,270 14,525
The profit of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year was £5,000 million (2008 – £8,621 million), which after dividends of £3,003 million
(2008 – £2,929 million), gave a retained profit of £1,997 million (2008 – profit of £5,692 million). After the cost of shares
purchased and cancelled of £nil million (2008 – £3,706 million) the profit and loss account reserve at 31st December 2009 stood
at £13,270 million (2008 – £11,273 million), of which £4,096 million is unrealised (2008 – £4,096 million).
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
183
Shareholder information
The shareholder information section includes the financial record
Shareholder information 183
presenting historical information prepared in accordance with IFRS
Quarterly trend 184
as adopted by the European Union, and also with IFRS as issued by
Five year record 192
the IASB, and the full product development pipeline. The section
also discusses shareholder return in the form of dividends and share Product development pipeline 195
price movements and provides other information for shareholders. Share price and dividends 199
Nature of trading market 200
The share price movements and dividends are shown by the
Annual General Meeting 200
graphs below. Details of the price movements and dividends are
Investor relations and Registrar 201
on pages 199 to 200.
Taxation information for shareholders 202
Glossary of terms 203
Index 204
Share price Dividends per share
£ US$ pence US$
15 60 70 3.5
14 55 60 3.0
13 50 50 2.5
12 45 40 2.0
11 40 30 1.5
10 35 20 1.0
9 30 10 0.5
8 25 0 0
01/01/07 31/12/07 31/12/08 31/12/09 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
• l UU KK ss hh aa rr ee pp rr ii cc ee • l UU SS AA DD RR pp rr ii cc ee (( UU SS $$ )) • l UUKK ddiivviiddeennddss ppeerr sshhaarree • l UUSS ddiivviiddeennddss ppeerr AADDSS
Analysis of shareholdings at 31st December 2009
Number of % of total % of total Number of
accounts accounts shares shares
Holding of shares
Up to 1,000 118,849 72 1 42,629,294
1,001 to 5,000 36,802 22 1 78,738,160
5,001 to 100,000 8,503 5 2 124,902,813
100,001 to 1,000,000 875 1 6 312,712,630
Over 1,000,000 423 – 90 5,106,145,822
165,452 100 100 5,665,128,719
Held by
Nominee companies 27,603 17 74 4,176,525,968
Investment and trust companies 44 – – 2,385,639
Insurance companies 9 – – 5,144
Individuals and other corporate bodies 137,794 83 5 276,192,537
BNY (Nominees) Limited 1 – 13 735,825,273
Held as Treasury shares by GlaxoSmithKline 1 – 8 474,194,158
165,452 100 100 5,665,128,719
The Bank of New York Mellon’s holding held through BNY (Nominees) Limited represents the company’s ADR programme, whereby
each ADS represents two Ordinary Shares of 25p nominal value. At 19th February 2010, BNY (Nominees) Limited held 735,816,825
Ordinary Shares representing 14.17% of the issued share capital excluding Treasury shares at that date.
At 19th February 2010, the number of holders of shares in the USA was 1,088 with holdings of 1,310,916 shares, and the number of
registered holders of the ADR was 33,963 with holdings of 367,903,742 ADR. Certain of these shares and ADR were held by brokers
or other nominees. As a result the number of holders of record or registered holders in the USA is not representative of the number of
beneficial holders or of the residence of beneficial holders.
GSK Annual Report 2009402–381P
noitamrofni
redloherahS
184
Shareholder information
Quarterly trend
An unaudited analysis of the Group results and pharmaceutical sales by therapeutic area is provided by quarter in Sterling for the
financial year 2009.
Income statement – total 12 months 2009 Q4 2009 Q3 2009 Q2 2009 Q1 2009
£m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Turnover – Pharmaceuticals 23,714 2 16 6,916 15 19 5,593 2 14 5,582 (4) 13 5,623 (6) 18
– Consumer Healthcare 4,654 7 17 1,178 5 6 1,165 8 17 1,165 9 23 1,146 4 25
Total turnover 28,368 3 16 8,094 13 17 6,758 3 15 6,747 (2) 15 6,769 (5) 19
Cost of sales (7,380) 6 15 (2,119) 4 8 (1,782) 5 12 (1,692) 1 12 (1,787) (17 ) 31
Selling, general and administrative (9,592) 6 25 (2,954) 13 29 (2,146) 4 18 (2,292) 4 28 (2,200) 1 26
Research and development (4,106) 1 12 (1,127) (9) (7) (882) (5) 1 (973) 4 19 (1,124) 20 44
Other operating income 1,135 553 123 405 54
Operating profit 8,425 4 18 2,447 68 55 2,071 7 25 2,195 (5) 13 1,712 (40) (13)
Finance income 70 5 19 18 28
Finance costs (783) (213) (199) (168) (203)
Profit on disposal of interest in associate 115 – – – 115
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures 64 11 22 17 14
Profit before taxation 7,891 4 19 2,250 77 61 1,913 5 23 2,062 (6) 12 1,666 (40) (11)
Taxation (2,222) (582) (542) (601) (497)
Tax rate % 28.2% 25.9% 28.3% 29.1% 29.8%
Profit after taxation for the period 5,669 6 20 1,668 79 64 1,371 11 30 1,461 (7) 12 1,169 (41) (12)
Profit attributable to minority interests 138 38 36 26 38
Profit attributable to shareholders 5,531 1,630 1,335 1,435 1,131
Basic earnings per share (pence) 109.1p 8 23 32.1p 82 66 26.3p 11 31 28.3p (4) 15 22.3p (39) (9)
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 108.2p 31.8p 26.1p 28.1p 22.2p
Income statement – results before major restructuring
Total turnover 28,368 3 16 8,094 13 17 6,758 3 15 6,747 (2) 15 6,769 (5) 19
Cost of sales (7,095) 13 23 (2,098) 22 28 (1,732) 11 19 (1,621) 6 18 (1,644) 13 27
Selling, general and administrative (9,200) 6 25 (2,780) 11 26 (2,064) 9 24 (2,227) 3 26 (2,129) (1) 24
Research and development (3,951) 2 13 (1,092) (2) – (862) (4) 3 (923) – 15 (1,074) 14 38
Other operating income 1,135 553 123 405 54
Operating profit 9,257 (1) 12 2,677 37 27 2,223 (3) 12 2,381 (6) 12 1,976 (31) (4)
Finance income 70 5 19 18 28
Finance costs (780) (213) (199) (166) (202)
Profit on disposal of interest in associate 115 115
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures 64 11 22 17 14
Profit before taxation 8,726 (1) 12 2,480 40 29 2,065 (5) 10 2,250 (6) 11 1,931 (31) (2)
Taxation (2,443) (646) (585) (652) (560)
Tax rate % 28.0% 26.0% 28.3% 29.0% 29.0%
Profit after taxation for the period 6,283 – 13 1,834 42 32 1,480 (3) 12 1,598 (7) 11 1,371 (31) (2)
Profit attributable to minority interests 138 38 36 26 38
Profit attributable to shareholders 6,145 1,796 1,444 1,572 1,333
Adjusted earnings per share (pence) 121.2p 2 16 35.4p 43 33 28.5p (3) 13 31.0p (4) 14 26.3p (28) 3
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 120.3p 35.1p 28.3p 30.8p 26.2p
The calculation of results before major restructuring is described in Note 1 to the financial statements, ‘Presentation of the
financial statements’.
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
185
Shareholder information
Quarterly trend
An unaudited analysis of the Group results and pharmaceutical sales by therapeutic area is provided by quarter in Sterling for the
financial year 2009.
Income statement – total 12 months 2009 Q4 2009 Q3 2009 Q2 2009 Q1 2009
£m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Turnover – Pharmaceuticals 23,714 2 16 6,916 15 19 5,593 2 14 5,582 (4) 13 5,623 (6) 18
– Consumer Healthcare 4,654 7 17 1,178 5 6 1,165 8 17 1,165 9 23 1,146 4 25
Total turnover 28,368 3 16 8,094 13 17 6,758 3 15 6,747 (2) 15 6,769 (5) 19
Cost of sales (7,380) 6 15 (2,119) 4 8 (1,782) 5 12 (1,692) 1 12 (1,787) (17 ) 31
Selling, general and administrative (9,592) 6 25 (2,954) 13 29 (2,146) 4 18 (2,292) 4 28 (2,200) 1 26
Research and development (4,106) 1 12 (1,127) (9) (7) (882) (5) 1 (973) 4 19 (1,124) 20 44
Other operating income 1,135 553 123 405 54
Operating profit 8,425 4 18 2,447 68 55 2,071 7 25 2,195 (5) 13 1,712 (40) (13)
Finance income 70 5 19 18 28
Finance costs (783) (213) (199) (168) (203)
Profit on disposal of interest in associate 115 – – – 115
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures 64 11 22 17 14
Profit before taxation 7,891 4 19 2,250 77 61 1,913 5 23 2,062 (6) 12 1,666 (40) (11)
Taxation (2,222) (582) (542) (601) (497)
Tax rate % 28.2% 25.9% 28.3% 29.1% 29.8%
Profit after taxation for the period 5,669 6 20 1,668 79 64 1,371 11 30 1,461 (7) 12 1,169 (41) (12)
Profit attributable to minority interests 138 38 36 26 38
Profit attributable to shareholders 5,531 1,630 1,335 1,435 1,131
Basic earnings per share (pence) 109.1p 8 23 32.1p 82 66 26.3p 11 31 28.3p (4) 15 22.3p (39) (9)
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 108.2p 31.8p 26.1p 28.1p 22.2p
Income statement – results before major restructuring
Total turnover 28,368 3 16 8,094 13 17 6,758 3 15 6,747 (2) 15 6,769 (5) 19
Cost of sales (7,095) 13 23 (2,098) 22 28 (1,732) 11 19 (1,621) 6 18 (1,644) 13 27
Selling, general and administrative (9,200) 6 25 (2,780) 11 26 (2,064) 9 24 (2,227) 3 26 (2,129) (1) 24
Research and development (3,951) 2 13 (1,092) (2) – (862) (4) 3 (923) – 15 (1,074) 14 38
Other operating income 1,135 553 123 405 54
Operating profit 9,257 (1) 12 2,677 37 27 2,223 (3) 12 2,381 (6) 12 1,976 (31) (4)
Finance income 70 5 19 18 28
Finance costs (780) (213) (199) (166) (202)
Profit on disposal of interest in associate 115 115
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures 64 11 22 17 14
Profit before taxation 8,726 (1) 12 2,480 40 29 2,065 (5) 10 2,250 (6) 11 1,931 (31) (2)
Taxation (2,443) (646) (585) (652) (560)
Tax rate % 28.0% 26.0% 28.3% 29.0% 29.0%
Profit after taxation for the period 6,283 – 13 1,834 42 32 1,480 (3) 12 1,598 (7) 11 1,371 (31) (2)
Profit attributable to minority interests 138 38 36 26 38
Profit attributable to shareholders 6,145 1,796 1,444 1,572 1,333
Adjusted earnings per share (pence) 121.2p 2 16 35.4p 43 33 28.5p (3) 13 31.0p (4) 14 26.3p (28) 3
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 120.3p 35.1p 28.3p 30.8p 26.2p
The calculation of results before major restructuring is described in Note 1 to the financial statements, ‘Presentation of the
financial statements’.
GSK Annual Report 2009402–381P
noitamrofni
redloherahS
186
Shareholder information
Quarterly trend
Pharmaceutical turnover – total Group
Q4 2009 Q3 2009 Q2 2009 Q1 2009
£m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Respiratory 1,914 7 11 1,594 6 18 1,734 6 25 1,735 1 28
Avamys/Veramyst 33 36 32 31 59 82 47 >100 >100 31 85 >100
Flixonase/Flonase 35 (14) (17) 28 (21) (15) 39 (46) (40) 69 11 50
Flixotide/Flovent 222 3 7 169 – 13 189 1 20 195 (6) 20
Seretide/Advair 1,366 7 10 1,152 5 17 1,245 9 29 1,214 – 27
Serevent 61 (14) (13) 54 (18) (10) 59 (21) (11) 62 (24) (7)
Ventolin 139 28 34 110 28 41 112 23 40 116 23 51
Zyrtec 22 67 83 18 >100 >100 17 63 >100 18 9 64
Anti-virals 1,033 9 12 1,049 15 32 952 5 27 1,116 18 51
HIV 412 (3) (1) 392 (7) 4 382 (10) 6 419 (8) 17
Agenerase, Lexiva 44 (9) (6) 43 (3) 8 43 (8) 13 48 6 37
Combivir 109 (5) (4) 102 (15) – 102 (17) (2) 112 (16) 7
Epivir 30 (17) (17) 34 (14) (3) 31 (24) (9) 34 (21) –
Epzicom/Kivexa 149 11 16 131 6 19 129 6 24 137 10 38
Trizivir 49 (19) (17) 48 (12) (2) 48 (18) (4) 56 (20) 4
Ziagen 27 (7) (4) 26 (11) (4) 25 (19) (4) 27 (16) 8
Valtrex 222 (34) (39) 349 (1) 15 379 9 37 344 2 38
Relenza 256 >100 >100 182 >100 >100 60 >100 >100 222 >100 >100
Zeffix 55 – 4 54 14 29 55 (4) 17 53 (13) 15
Central nervous system 504 (27) (24) 418 (37) (29) 449 (53) (45) 499 (53) (40)
Imigran/Imitrex 81 (50) (50) 53 (74) (72) 68 (65) (61) 64 (68) (61)
Lamictal 132 (27) (25) 121 (21) (11) 103 (73) (68) 144 (61) (50)
Requip 65 3 12 43 (30) (23) 51 (22) (12) 50 (56) (47)
Requip XL 40 85 100 31 87 >100 30 >100 >100 22 >100 >100
Seroxat/Paxil 139 (16) (10) 120 (12) 7 138 (13) 9 126 (21) 4
Treximet 14 15 8 15 >100 >100 12 25 50 14 – –
Wellbutrin, Wellbutrin XL 22 (64) (67) 16 (70) (70) 30 (72) (69) 64 (63) (49)
Cardiovascular and urogenital 615 10 12 552 5 18 580 10 33 551 6 38
Arixtra 74 31 35 60 20 36 61 39 69 59 29 69
Avodart 143 16 19 131 14 28 134 21 46 122 12 44
Coreg 31 (46) (49) 39 (30) (22) 51 (9) 16 51 (23) 6
Fraxiparine 60 2 3 56 (12) (5) 58 (9) – 55 (8) 8
Levitra 17 6 – 20 6 25 18 8 38 20 7 43
Lovaza 129 29 32 111 27 48 104 22 55 106 54 >100
Vesicare 29 26 26 25 17 39 26 31 63 24 21 71
Volibris 7 >100 >100 6 >100 >100 4 – – 2 – –
Metabolic 300 (15) (13) 284 (13) (2) 303 (12) 6 294 (16) 8
Avandia products 191 (17) (17) 185 (14) (3) 198 (14) 2 197 (19) 3
Avandia 112 (24) (24) 108 (19) (8) 121 (19) (3) 121 (23) (1)
Avandamet 69 (3) (1) 66 (6) 5 67 (7) 10 66 (16) 6
Bonviva/Boniva 67 (13) (12) 60 (5) 7 66 (2) 18 62 (4) 27
Anti-bacterials 409 2 3 376 3 11 381 3 16 426 (1) 17
Augmentin 173 7 9 162 8 14 146 2 12 186 – 19
Oncology and emesis 170 17 23 149 4 16 166 19 42 144 1 27
Hycamtin 45 7 10 41 9 21 43 3 23 43 10 43
Promacta 5 – – 3 – – 3 – – 2 – –
Tyverb/Tykerb 48 29 37 46 54 77 41 64 86 34 42 79
Zofran 24 35 41 23 (33) (30) 30 (16) (3) 32 (7) 10
Vaccines 1,523 78 91 802 (2) 10 756 14 31 625 18 43
Boostrix 35 100 >100 39 55 77 39 78 >100 26 62 100
Cervarix 38 (33) (31) 28 (40) (35) 73 >100 >100 48 >100 >100
Fluarix, FluLaval 42 (33) (36) 147 (14) 2 16 >100 >100 6 – –
Flu pandemic 836 >100 >100 11 – 10 30 (26) (12) 6 20 20
Hepatitis 151 (19) (18) 170 (12) (2) 195 (2) 17 149 (12) 7
Infanrix, Pediarix 153 (24) (21) 167 (10) (1) 154 (20) (8) 175 (5) 14
Rotarix 70 5 6 84 92 >100 71 69 >100 57 74 >100
Synflorix 48 – – 13 – – 12 – – – – –
Other 311 17 20 258 15 24 261 (1) 13 233 (25) (11)
6,779 13 17 5,482 – 12 5,582 (4) 13 5,623 (6) 18
Stiefel products 137 – – 111 – –
6,916 15 19 5,593 2 14
Pharmaceutical turnover includes co-promotion income.
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
187
Shareholder information
Quarterly trend
Pharmaceutical turnover – USA
Q4 2009 Q3 2009 Q2 2009 Q1 2009
£m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Respiratory 910 5 7 744 2 17 825 5 34 844 (1) 37
Avamys/Veramyst 15 (17) (17) 15 8 25 18 7 29 20 17 67
Flixonase/Flonase 6 (25) (25) 3 (57) (57) 8 (82) (76) 10 100 >100
Flixotide/Flovent 115 9 12 85 4 20 97 12 43 99 (4) 32
Seretide/Advair 704 3 4 587 (1) 14 648 7 37 653 (5) 31
Serevent 20 (9) (9) 16 (18) (6) 18 (13) 13 19 (18) 12
Ventolin 48 100 >100 35 >100 >100 32 >100 >100 38 >100 >100
Zyrtec – – – – – – – – – – – –
Anti-virals 413 (14) (17) 500 8 26 496 10 40 488 2 41
HIV 189 (3) (2) 168 (5) 10 164 (8) 15 195 (8) 28
Agenerase, Lexiva 25 (4) (4) 24 – 14 23 6 28 27 6 50
Combivir 47 (9) (11) 43 (10) 5 44 (15) 7 53 (16) 18
Epivir 12 (7) (14) 12 (9) 9 11 (18) – 13 (18) 18
Epzicom/Kivexa 63 13 15 52 2 18 50 – 28 58 5 45
Trizivir 26 (19) (19) 23 (13) (4) 25 (13) 9 30 (22) 11
Ziagen 13 (7) (7) 13 10 30 11 (18) – 14 – 40
Valtrex 129 (45) (54) 265 3 19 291 16 49 257 8 49
Relenza 62 >100 >100 45 >100 >100 19 >100 >100 11 – 38
Zeffix 4 – – 4 – – 5 (25) 25 4 – 33
Central nervous system 178 (50) (50) 115 (67) (64) 142 (79) (74) 216 (73) (64)
Imigran/Imitrex 43 (64) (65) 19 (89) (88) 33 (79) (76) 28 (83) (79)
Lamictal 72 (40) (39) 64 (35) (24) 45 (86) (83) 86 (74) (64)
Requip 16 27 45 (4) >(100) >(100) 6 (78) (67) 8 (90) (87)
Requip XL 12 >100 >100 7 75 75 8 – – 5 – –
Seroxat/Paxil 10 (47) (47) 5 (54) (62) 13 (31) (19) 14 (61) (55)
Treximet 14 8 8 15 >100 >100 12 25 50 ) 14 – –
Wellbutrin, Wellbutrin XL 10 (79) (82) 4 (86) (91) 20 (81) (78) 54 (68) (55)
Cardiovascular and urogenital 375 8 9 336 4 20 360 12 43 344 7 48
Arixtra 43 35 39 32 23 45 33 63 >100 33 26 74
Avodart 83 11 11 80 10 27 83 16 51 73 8 49
Coreg 31 (45) (48) 39 (31) (20) 50 (7) 16 51 (23) 6
Fraxiparine – – – – – – – – – – – –
Levitra 16 – – 18 7 20 17 – 31 19 8 46
Lovaza 128 29 31 111 25 48 104 24 58 105 52 >100
Vesicare 29 26 26 25 17 39 26 31 63 24 21 71
Volibris – – – – – – – – – – – –
Metabolic 150 (18) (18) 132 (15) (3) 149 (17) 7 150 (18) 13
Avandia products 109 (17) (17) 97 (14) (2) 107 (19) 3 112 (18) 13
Avandia 69 (22) (22) 62 (18) (7) 71 (22) (1) 74 (25) 4
Avandamet 33 (3) (3) 29 (8) 12 29 (8) 16 31 (4) 29
Bonviva/Boniva 41 (20) (20) 35 (17) (3) 41 (11) 14 38 (15) 15
Anti-bacterials 41 (16) (18) 39 (15) (3) 46 (8) 18 47 (24) 4
Augmentin 9 (33) (40) 9 (22) – 11 13 38 16 (29) (6)
Oncology and emesis 86 30 34 64 (11) – 88 19 54 70 (12) 21
Hycamtin 26 4 4 24 – 20 24 5 26 26 6 53
Promacta 5 – – 3 – – 3 – – 2 – –
Tyverb/Tykerb 14 (7) – 12 (8) – 17 18 55 11 (20) 10
Zofran (1) 100 90 (1) (100) >(100) 4 (25) – 7 67 >100
Vaccines 294 55 65 206 (20) (6) 196 22 58 119 (21) 9
Boostrix 17 >100 >100 24 54 85 21 78 >100 11 60 >100
Cervarix 4 – – – – – – – – – – –
Fluarix, FluLaval 5 (64) (77) 63 (19) – 5 – – – – –
Flu pandemic 162 >100 >100 – – – 25 – – – – –
Hepatitis 51 (27) (31) 67 (29) (18) 87 2 32 52 (28) (2)
Infanrix, Pediarix 27 (50) (52) 30 (52) (46) 38 (43) (22) 39 (41) (24)
Rotarix 17 – – 22 >100 >100 22 – – 15 –
Synflorix – – – – – – – – – – – –
Other 3 67 – 7 (75) (13) 2 >100 >100 5 – 25
2,450 (4) (3) 2,143 (12) 2 2,304 (15) 8 2,283 (22) 7
Pharmaceutical turnover includes co-promotion income.
GSK Annual Report 2009402–381P
noitamrofni
redloherahS
188
Shareholder information
Quarterly trend
Pharmaceutical turnover – Europe
Q4 2009 Q3 2009 Q2 2009 Q1 2009
£m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Respiratory 594 4 8 511 7 14 550 2 11 546 (1) 12
Avamys/Veramyst 11 83 83 9 >100 >100 16 >100 >100 9 >100 >100
Flixonase/Flonase 10 (17) (17) 9 (18) (18) 12 (25) (25) 12 (23) (8)
Flixotide/Flovent 49 (4) (2) 38 (5) – 43 (5) – 48 (2) 9
Seretide/Advair 436 7 11 378 9 17 401 3 13 394 – 14
Serevent 29 (15) (12) 27 (16) (16) 29 (18) (15) 31 (22) (16)
Ventolin 42 – 5 35 3 13 36 3 9 37 (3) 12
Zyrtec – – – – – – – – – – – –
Anti-virals 251 7 12 247 13 24 236 (2) 8 340 45 63
HIV 155 (10) (6) 155 (6) 3 156 (14) (5) 169 (9) 8
Agenerase, Lexiva 14 (7) (7) 15 (7) – 16 (13) – 17 (7) 13
Combivir 37 (14) (12) 36 (13) (5) 37 (25) (16) 41 (17) (2)
Epivir 11 (27) (27) 12 (15) (8 ) 12 (33) (20) 14 (20) (7)
Epzicom/Kivexa 63 5 11 60 10 20 59 – 9 62 10 29
Trizivir 19 (18) (14) 19 (23) (14) 20 (25) (17) 24 (17) –
Ziagen 9 (11) – 8 (13) – 9 (20) (10) 9 (11) –
Valtrex 41 5 8 38 (3) 9 39 (3) 8 42 – 20
Relenza 39 >100 >100 38 – – 25 >100 >100 110 – –
Zeffix 7 (14) – 7 – – 8 17 33 7 (14) –
Central nervous system 146 (7) (3) 139 (9) (2) 144 (8) 1 145 (2) 12
Imigran/Imitrex 25 (8) – 23 (8) (4) 23 (13) (4) 25 (4) 9
Lamictal 39 (5) – 38 (5) 3 38 (8) – 39 3 18
Requip 37 (8) (3) 34 (9) (3) 35 3 13 32 (3) 10
Requip XL 27 67 80 23 100 >100 22 >100 >100 17 >100 >100
Seroxat/Paxil 22 (24) (24) 22 (26) (19) 27 (19) (13) 28 (14) –
Treximet – – – – – – – – – – – –
Wellbutrin, Wellbutrin XL 9 33 50 8 33 33 7 100 >100 6 67 100
Cardiovascular and urogenital 155 8 13 142 2 10 145 2 12 141 2 22
Arixtra 26 14 24 24 11 26 23 24 35 22 29 57
Avodart 39 12 18 36 10 24 37 21 32 36 7 29
Coreg – – – – – – – – – – – –
Fraxiparine 45 – 2 42 (15) (11) 43 (15) (7) 43 (10) 5
Levitra 1 – – 1 – – 1 – – 1 – –
Lovaza – – – – – – – – – – – –
Vesicare – – – – – – – – – – – –
Volibris 7 >100 >100 5 >100 >100 4 – – 2 – –
Metabolic 69 (13) (9) 67 (14) (7) 71 (11) (3) 68 (21) (7)
Avandia products 40 (17) (15) 42 (19) (13) 46 (18) (6) 43 (30) (20)
Avandia 15 (25) (25) 16 (25) (20) 18 (20) (10) 18 (27) (18)
Avandamet 24 (12) (8) 25 (12) (4) 26 (18) (7) 24 (32) (23)
Bonviva/Boniva 23 (4) – 22 11 22 23 6 28 21 20 40
Anti-bacterials 181 (3) 1 146 (4) 4 146 (4) 4 189 (7) 8
Augmentin 82 7 11 68 2 10 61 – 7 84 (9) 6
Oncology and emesis 52 – 4 51 15 24 50 12 22 51 16 38
Hycamtin 15 7 7 14 8 17 15 17 25 15 9 36
Promacta – – – – – – – – – – – –
Tyverb/Tykerb 21 12 24 19 90 90 18 88 >100 17 >100 >100
Zofran 12 (25) (25) 12 (20) (20) 14 (25) (13) 14 (25) (13)
Vaccines 794 >100 >100 344 (3) 7 320 7 16 286 23 43
Boostrix 11 57 57 11 43 57 10 14 43 8 40 60
Cervarix 19 (58) (58) 17 (61) (55) 63 >100 >100 39 >100 >100
Fluarix, FluLaval 11 (43) (48) 60 (10) 3 – – – – – –
Flu pandemic 511 >100 >100 4 (60) (60) 5 (86) (86) 5 25 25
Hepatitis 64 (16) (14) 65 – 7 72 (8) – 61 (5) 9
Infanrix, Pediarix 101 (14) (11) 105 8 18 91 (13) (3) 109 14 35
Rotarix 14 8 8 14 9 27 12 20 20 13 22 44
Synflorix 11 – – 11 – – 10 – – – – –
Other 119 12 16 87 25 30 84 – 5 74 (7) 4
2,361 23 29 1,734 3 11 1,746 1 9 1,840 7 23
Pharmaceutical turnover includes co-promotion income.
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
189
Shareholder information
Quarterly trend
Pharmaceutical turnover – Rest of World
Q4 2009 Q3 2009 Q2 2009 Q1 2009
£m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Respiratory 410 17 25 339 14 28 359 16 33 345 9 36
Avamys/Veramyst 7 >100 >100 7 >100 >100 13 >100 >100 2 – –
Flixonase/Flonase 19 (9) (14) 16 (7) 7 19 6 19 47 14 62
Flixotide/Flovent 58 (2) 5 46 (3) 15 49 (11) 4 48 (12) 12
Seretide/Advair 226 23 32 187 15 30 196 27 45 167 26 52
Serevent 12 (20) (20) 11 (27) – 12 (38) (25) 12 (38) (8)
Ventolin 49 15 20 40 – 5 44 (3) 10 41 (5) 11
Zyrtec 22 67 83 18 >100 >100 17 63 >100 18 9 64
Anti-virals 369 71 85 302 32 54 220 5 24 288 16 57
HIV 68 12 15 69 (11) (7) 62 (5) 13 55 (6) 12
Agenerase, Lexiva 5 (33) (17) 4 – – 4 (50) – 4 100 100
Combivir 25 26 32 23 (23) (26 ) 21 (5) 11 18 (17) –
Epivir 7 (14) – 10 (18) (9 ) 8 (13) – 7 (25) (13)
Epzicom/Kivexa 23 24 35 19 6 19 20 55 82 17 27 55
Trizivir 4 (20) (20) 6 67 100 3 – – 2 (33) (33)
Ziagen 5 – – 5 (33) (44) 5 (20) – 4 (50) (33)
Valtrex 52 (4) 6 46 (16) 2 49 (15) 7 45 (17) 10
Relenza 155 >100 >100 99 >100 >100 16 – – 101 >100 >100
Zeffix 44 2 5 43 19 39 42 (5) 14 42 (14) 17
Central nervous system 180 4 12 164 11 34 163 4 27 138 (3) 30
Imigran/Imitrex 13 – – 11 (10) 10 12 – 20 11 – 38
Lamictal 21 11 11 19 20 27 20 (6) 18 19 – 12
Requip 12 22 33 13 13 63 10 – 11 10 40 100
Requip XL 1 – – 1 – – – – – – – –
Seroxat/Paxil 107 (8) 1 93 1 29 98 (8) 23 84 (3) 35
Treximet – – – – – – – – – – – –
Wellbutrin, Wellbutrin XL 3 – (25) 4 (33) 33 3 (20) (40) 4 50 100
Cardiovascular and urogenital 85 25 27 74 14 30 75 19 39 66 10 32
Arixtra 5 100 67 4 67 33 5 – 67 4 50 100
Avodart 21 58 75 15 50 50 14 44 56 13 50 63
Coreg – – – – – – 1 (100) – – – –
Fraxiparine 15 7 7 14 – 17 15 17 25 12 – 20
Levitra – – – 1 – – – – – – – –
Lovaza 1 – – – – – – – – 1 – –
Vesicare – – – – – – – – – – – –
Volibris – – – 1 – – – – – – – –
Metabolic 81 (9) (7) 85 (10) 5 83 (4) 14 76 (8) 15
Avandia products 42 (18) (16) 46 (9) 5 45 2 10 42 (8) 11
Avandia 28 (29) (26) 30 (16) (3) 32 (12) (3) 29 (14) –
Avandamet 12 20 20 12 9 9 12 38 50 11 14 57
Bonviva/Boniva 3 50 50 3 50 50 2 100 – 3 – >100
Anti-bacterials 187 11 11 191 14 20 189 12 26 190 13 33
Augmentin 82 16 17 85 17 20 74 3 14 86 20 43
Oncology and emesis 32 21 33 34 26 48 28 32 47 23 11 28
Hycamtin 4 50 100 3 100 50 4 (50) – 2 50 –
Promacta – – – – – – – – – – – –
Tyverb/Tykerb 13 >100 >100 15 >100 >100 6 >100 100 6 100 >100
Zofran 13 – 18 12 (17) – 12 – 9 11 – 10
Vaccines 435 56 66 252 20 33 240 20 36 220 46 73
Boostrix 7 >100 >100 4 100 100 8 >100 >100 7 100 >100
Cervarix 15 50 50 11 >100 >100 10 100 >100 9 >100 >100
Fluarix, FluLaval 26 4 13 24 (9) 4 11 83 83 6 – –
Flu pandemic 163 >100 >100 7 – – – – – 1 – –
Hepatitis 36 (8) (3) 38 10 23 36 7 24 36 3 20
Infanrix, Pediarix 25 (8) – 32 22 39 25 (4) 4 27 14 29
Rotarix 39 6 8 48 83 100 37 20 48 29 39 61
Synflorix 37 – – 2 – – 2 – – – – –
Other 189 20 24 164 16 23 175 (4) 17 154 (32 ) (18)
1,968 28 36 1,605 16 31 1,532 10 28 1,500 6 32
Pharmaceutical turnover includes co-promotion income.
GSK Annual Report 2009402–381P
noitamrofni
redloherahS
190
Shareholder information
Quarterly trend
Consumer Healthcare turnover – total Group
Q4 2009 Q3 2009 Q2 2009 Q1 2009
£m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Over-the-counter medicines 612 4 6 567 9 19 573 13 29 567 5 30
alli 40 33 33 49 >100 >100 82 >100 >100 32 >100 >100
Breathe Right 22 (19) (19) 23 5 21 20 (6) 11 27 24 59
Cold sore franchise 25 (11) (11) 28 14 27 20 (11) 5 23 (5) 15
Nicotene replacement therapy 90 (5) (3) 79 (16) (5) 88 12 35 82 12 41
Panadol 104 19 24 96 7 17 94 8 21 99 6 24
Tums 26 (4) (4) 25 – 19 25 (5) 14 30 5 43
Oral healthcare 375 6 9 375 10 21 366 7 23 368 5 27
Aquafresh franchise 121 (2) (1) 126 (2) 9 121 (1) 13 128 – 20
Biotene 7 >100 >100 7 – – 6 – – 6 – –
Denture care 87 9 13 85 10 25 84 9 27 80 5 33
Sensodyne franchise 114 11 14 118 20 31 113 14 30 112 7 30
Nutritional healthcare 191 4 3 223 4 7 226 2 8 211 1 9
Lucozade 86 (2) (3) 104 4 4 106 (4) (1) 80 (12) (7)
Horlicks 55 19 17 64 13 21 61 17 27 75 20 34
Ribena 38 – 3 40 (9) (9) 44 (2) 2 38 (5) 3
1,178 5 6 1,165 8 17 1,165 9 23 1,146 4 25
Consumer Healthcare turnover – USA
Q4 2009 Q3 2009 Q2 2009 Q1 2009
£m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Over-the-counter medicines 185 (11) (11) 174 (3) 12 183 1 28 180 4 44
alli 22 (18) (21) 20 – 11 25 12 47 29 >100 >100
Breathe Right 11 (31) (31) 15 – 15 10 (20) – 14 11 56
Cold sore franchise 11 (27) (27) 17 40 70 9 (22) – 9 – 29
Nicotene replacement therapy 63 (7) (7) 58 (17) (3) 68 13 45 58 11 53
Panadol – – – – – – – – – – – –
Tums 23 – – 20 – 11 22 (5) 16 27 6 50
Oral healthcare 75 10 10 75 20 39 71 10 42 78 14 56
Aquafresh franchise 22 (12) (15) 23 – 15 21 (6) 17 27 (5) 35
Biotene 5 >100 >100 4 – – 5 – – 5 – –
Denture care 19 – – 19 13 27 20 – 33 19 – 36
Sensodyne franchise 27 29 29 28 41 65 23 20 53 26 27 73
Nutritional healthcare – – – – – – – – – – – –
Lucozade – – – – – – – – – – – –
Horlicks – – – – – – – – – – – –
Ribena – – – – – – – – – – – –
260 (5) (5) 249 3 19 254 3 32 258 7 47
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
191
Shareholder information
Quarterly trend
Consumer Healthcare turnover – Europe
Q4 2009 Q3 2009 Q2 2009 Q1 2009
£m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Over-the-counter medicines 221 17 18 186 27 31 185 31 38 156 (2) 8
alli 17 – – 29 – – 56 – – 3 – –
Breathe Right 5 (17) (17) 5 – 25 5 – – 7 20 40
Cold sore franchise 10 (9) (9) 9 – 13 8 – (11 ) 11 (10) 10
Nicotene replacement therapy 19 6 6 13 – – 15 8 15 17 6 6
Panadol 33 35 43 26 32 37 20 11 11 20 (11) 5
Tums – – – 1 – – – – – – – –
Oral healthcare 196 1 4 190 3 9 190 4 12 184 1 16
Aquafresh franchise 72 (3) (1) 75 (3) 4 71 (2) 8 73 (2) 14
Biotene 1 – – 1 – – 1 – – – – –
Denture care 33 – 3 32 15 19 32 7 19 28 – 17
Sensodyne franchise 50 – 4 48 7 12 50 7 16 47 2 15
Nutritional healthcare 107 (3) (3) 125 (2) (2) 130 (5) (3) 95 (15) (14)
Lucozade 74 (3) (3) 92 2 3 92 (5) (3) 65 (16) (14)
Horlicks 6 – – 4 (20) (20) 4 (20) (20) 5 (17) (17)
Ribena 26 (4) (4) 29 (12) (12) 33 (6) (3) 25 (7) (7)
524 6 8 501 9 13 505 10 16 435 (4) 5
Consumer Healthcare turnover – Rest of World
Q4 2009 Q3 2009 Q2 2009 Q1 2009
£m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Over-the-counter medicines 206 8 11 207 6 16 205 8 23 231 13 38
alli 1 (50) (50) – – – 1 – – – – –
Breathe Right 6 20 20 3 50 50 5 33 67 6 67 100
Cold sore franchise 4 100 100 2 (25) (50) 3 – >100 3 – –
Nicotene replacement therapy 8 (14) 14 8 (30) (20) 5 20 – 7 50 75
Panadol 71 13 16 70 – 11 74 7 23 79 11 30
Tums 3 – – 4 (33) 33 3 – – 3 – –
Oral healthcare 104 15 21 110 18 34 105 13 33 106 8 33
Aquafresh franchise 27 9 17 28 – 17 29 (4) 26 28 9 22
Biotene 1 – – 2 – – – – – 1 – –
Denture care 35 27 35 34 4 31 32 17 33 33 14 50
Sensodyne franchise 37 16 19 42 27 40 40 21 38 39 3 30
Nutritional healthcare 84 15 12 98 15 21 96 14 26 116 22 40
Lucozade 12 – (8) 12 18 9 14 8 17 15 20 50
Horlicks 49 22 20 60 17 25 57 21 33 70 24 40
Ribena 12 10 20 11 – – 11 11 22 13 – 30
394 11 14 415 11 21 406 11 26 453 14 37
GSK Annual Report 2009402–381P
noitamrofni
redloherahS
192
Shareholder information
Five year record
A record of financial performance is provided, analysed in accordance with current reporting practice. The information included in the
Five year record is prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union and also with IFRS as issued by the International
Accounting Standards Board.
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
Pharmaceutical turnover by therapeutic area
£m £m £m £m £m
Respiratory 6,977 5,817 5,032 4,991 5,050
Anti-virals 4,150 3,206 3,027 2,826 2,598
Central nervous system 1,870 2,897 3,348 3,642 3,219
Cardiovascular and urogenital 2,298 1,847 1,554 1,636 1,331
Metabolic 1,181 1,191 1,508 1,870 1,488
Anti-bacterials 1,592 1,429 1,323 1,363 1,513
Oncology and emesis 629 496 477 1,069 1,016
Vaccines 3,706 2,539 1,993 1,692 1,389
Other 1,311 959 901 924 979
23,714 20,381 19,163 20,013 18,583
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
Pharmaceutical turnover by geographic area
£m £m £m £m £m
USA 9,180 8,894 9,273 10,353 9,106
Europe 7,681 6,483 5,560 5,437 5,458
Rest of World:
Emerging markets 2,973 2,290 1,895 1,783 1,671
Japan 1,649 1,027 867 860 854
Asia Pacific 1,051 891 834 806 763
Canada 635 503 477 483 443
Other 545 293 257 291 288
Rest of World 6,853 5,004 4,330 4,223 4,019
23,714 20,381 19,163 20,013 18,583
Pharmaceutical turnover includes co-promotion income.
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
Consumer Healthcare turnover
£m £m £m £m £m
OTC medicines 2,319 1,935 1,788 1,561 1,515
Oral healthcare 1,484 1,240 1,049 993 943
Nutritional healthcare 851 796 716 658 619
4,654 3,971 3,553 3,212 3,077
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
193
Shareholder information
Financial results – total 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 28,368 24,352 22,716 23,225 21,660
Operating profit 8,425 7,141 7,593 7,808 6,874
Profit before taxation 7,891 6,659 7,452 7,799 6,732
Profit after taxation 5,669 4,712 5,310 5,498 4,816
pence pence pence pence pence
Basic earnings per share 109.1 88.6 94.4 95.5 82.6
Diluted earnings per share 108.2 88.1 93.7 94.5 82.0
Financial results – before major restructuring 2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m
Turnover 28,368 24,352 22,716
Operating profit 9,257 8,259 7,931
Profit before taxation 8,726 7,782 7,790
Profit after taxation 6,283 5,551 5,571
pence pence pence
Adjusted earnings per share 121.2 104.7 99.1
Adjusted diluted earnings per share 120.3 104.1 98.3
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
millions millions millions millions millions
Weighted average number of shares in issue:
Basic 5,069 5,195 5,524 5,643 5,674
Diluted 5,108 5,226 5,567 5,700 5,720
% % % % %
Return on capital employed 82.8 73.1 76.2 90.6 99.7
Return on capital employed is calculated as total profit before taxation as a percentage of average net assets over the year.
Balance sheet 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m £m
Non-current assets 25,292 22,124 17,377 14,561 14,021
Current assets 17,570 17,269 13,626 10,992 13,177
Total assets 42,862 39,393 31,003 25,553 27,198
Current liabilities (12,118) (10,017) (10,345) (7,265) (9,511)
Non-current liabilities (20,002) (21,058) (10,748) (8,640) (10,117)
Total liabilities (32,120) (31,075) (21,093) (15,905) (19,628)
Net assets 10,742 8,318 9,910 9,648 7,570
Shareholders’ equity 10,005 7,931 9,603 9,386 7,311
Minority interests 737 387 307 262 259
Total equity 10,742 8,318 9,910 9,648 7,570
GSK Annual Report 2009402–381P
noitamrofni
redloherahS
194
Shareholder information
Number of employees
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
USA 22,594 21,176 24,838 24,726 23,822
Europe 42,048 44,677 46,869 45,758 43,999
Rest of World:
Asia Pacific, including China 21,011 18,983 17,525 17,570 15,991
Japan 3,264 3,174 3,284 3,195 3,098
Middle East, Africa 3,619 3,403 3,156 3,204 5,682
Latin America 5,169 5,228 5,249 5,856 5,664
Canada 2,208 2,362 2,562 2,386 2,472
Rest of World 35,271 33,150 31,776 32,211 32,907
99,913 99,003 103,483 102,695 100,728
Manufacturing 31,162 32,622 33,995 33,235 31,615
Selling 44,621 42,430 44,499 44,484 44,393
Administration 9,405 8,787 8,960 9,024 9,225
Research and development 14,725 15,164 16,029 15,952 15,495
99,913 99,003 103,483 102,695 100,728
The geographic distribution of employees in the table above is based on the location of GSK’s subsidiary companies. The number of
employees is the number of permanent employed staff at the end of the financial period. It excludes those employees who are employed
and managed by GSK on a contract basis.
Exchange rates
As a guide to holders of ADS, the following tables set out, for the periods indicated, information on the exchange rate of US dollars
for Sterling as reported by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (‘noon buying rate’).
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
Average 1.56 1.85 2.00 1.85 1.81
The average rate for the year is calculated as the average of the noon buying rates for each day of the year.
Feb Jan Dec Nov Oct Sept
2010 2010 2009 2009 2009 2009
High 1.60 1.64 1.67 1.68 1.66 1.67
Low 1.54 1.59 1.59 1.64 1.58 1.59
As at 31st December 2008, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York ceased publishing noon buying rates. The Bank of England 4pm
buying rates have been used for subsequent calculations.
The 4pm buying rate on 19th February 2010 was £1= US$1.54.
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
195
Product development pipeline
Key
† In-license or other alliance relationship with third party BLA Biological License Application
S Month of first submission MAA Marketing Authorisation Application (Europe)
A Month of first regulatory approval (for MAA, this is the first EU NDA New Drug Application (USA)
approval letter) Phase I Evaluation of clinical pharmacology, usually conducted in volunteers
AL/CR Month Approvable or Complete Response Letter received – indicates Phase II Determination of dose and initial evaluation of efficacy, conducted in a
that ultimately approval can be given subject to resolution of small number of patients
outstanding queries
Phase III Large comparative study (compound versus placebo and/or established
PO Month of EU Positive Opinion treatment) in patients to establish clinical benefit and safety
TA FDA Tentative Approval
MAA and NDA/BLA Regulatory milestones shown in the table below are those that have been achieved. Future submission dates are not included in this list.
Achieved Regulatory
review milestones
Compound Type Indication Phase MAA NDA/BLA
Biopharmaceuticals
933776 monoclonal antibody Alzheimer’s disease I
1070806 monoclonal antibody metabolic disease I
1223249 monoclonal antibody amyotrophic lateral sclerosis I
2401502† domain antibody targeted malignant melanoma I
multi-component vaccine
APN01† recombinant human angiotensin acute respiratory distress syndrome I
converting enzyme 2
iboctadekin† (+ Doxil) IL18 immunomodulator (+ topoisomerase II ovarian cancer I
inhibitor)
iboctadekin† (+ rituximab) IL18 immunomodulator (+ anti-CD20 follicular lymphoma I
monoclonal antibody)
otelixizumab† anti-CD3 monoclonal antibody (s.c.) type 1 diabetes I
249320 monoclonal antibody stroke II
315234 monoclonal antibody rheumatoid arthritis II
679586 monoclonal antibody severe asthma II
Arzerra (ofatumumab)† anti-CD20 human monoclonal antibody follicular lymphoma (relapsed patients) II
Benlysta (belimumab)† anti-B lymphocyte stimulator monoclonal systemic lupus erythematosus II
antibody (s.c.)
mepolizumab anti-IL5 monoclonal antibody severe asthma & nasal polyposis II
ofatumumab† anti-CD20 human monoclonal antibody multiple sclerosis II
Arzerra (ofatumumab)† anti-CD20 human monoclonal antibody chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, first line therapy & III
use in relapsed patients
Arzerra (ofatumumab)† anti-CD20 human monoclonal antibody diffuse large B cell lymphoma (relapsed patients) III
Arzerra (ofatumumab)† anti-CD20 human monoclonal antibody follicular lymphoma (refractory patients) III
Benlysta (belimumab)† anti-B lymphocyte stimulator monoclonal systemic lupus erythematosus III
antibody (i.v.)
denosumab† anti-receptor activator for nuclear kappa (RANK) bone metastatic disease III
ligand human monoclonal antibody
denosumab† anti-RANK ligand human monoclonal antibody hormone ablative/chemotherapy bone loss in cancer patients III
ofatumumab† anti-CD20 human monoclonal antibody rheumatoid arthritis III
otelixizumab† anti-CD3 monoclonal antibody (i.v.) type 1 diabetes III
Syncria† glucagon-like peptide 1 agonist type 2 diabetes III
Prolia (denosumab)† anti-RANK ligand human monoclonal antibody post-menopausal osteoporosis Submitted PO:Dec09 N/A
Arzerra (ofatumumab)† anti-CD20 human monoclonal antibody chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (refractory patients) Approved PO:Jan10 A:Oct09
Cardiovascular & Metabolic
1278863 prolyl hydroxylase inhibitor anaemia I
1521498 mu-opioid receptor inverse agonist obesity I
1614235† sodium dependent glucose transport (SGLT1) type 2 diabetes I
inhibitor
2245840 SIRT1 activator sarcopaenia (also COPD & psoriasis) I
184072 SIRT1 activator type 2 diabetes (also haematologic cancers) II
256073 high affinity nicotinic acid receptor (HM74A) dyslipidaemia II
agonist
557296 oxytocin antagonist premature ejaculation II
1292263 gastrin-releasing peptide (GPR119) receptor type 2 diabetes II
agonist
1362885 glycogen phosphorylase inhibitor type 2 diabetes II
2245840 SIRT1 activator type 2 diabetes (also COPD & haematologic cancers) II
losmapimod p38 kinase inhibitor cardiovascular disease (also COPD, pain & depression) II
retosiban (221149) oxytocin antagonist threatened pre-term labour II
rilapladib† Lp-PLA2 inhibitor atherosclerosis II
Avandamet XR PPAR gamma agonist + metformin type 2 diabetes – extended release III N/A
Avandia + simvastatin PPAR gamma agonist + statin type 2 diabetes III N/A
darapladib† Lp-PLA2 inhibitor atherosclerosis III
Arixtra synthetic factor Xa inhibitor treatment of acute coronary syndrome Approved A:Aug07 AL:Feb07
& Sep07
Avandia PPAR gamma agonist prevention of disease progression Approved A:Apr09 A:Jul08
GSK Annual Report 2009402–381P
noitamrofni
redloherahS
196
Product development pipeline
Achieved Regulatory
review milestones
Compound Type Indication Phase MAA NDA/BLA
Infectious Diseases
932121 plasmodium electron transport chain inhibitor malaria I
945237 topoisomerase II inhibitor treatment of bacterial infections I
1322322 novel class antibacterial agent treatment of bacterial infections I
Relenza† neuraminidase inhibitor (i.v.) treatment of influenza II
sitamaquine 8-aminoquinoline treatment of visceral leishmaniasis II N/A
tafenoquine† 8-aminoquinoline Plasmodium vivax malaria II
Neurosciences
586529† CRF1 antagonist depression & anxiety I
618334 dopamine D3 antagonist drug dependency I
1014802 sodium channel blocker bipolar disorder I
1034702 muscarinic acetylcholine agonist dementia I
1144814 NK1/NK3 antagonist schizophrenia I
163090 5HT1 antagonist depression & anxiety II
239512 histamine H3 antagonist dementia & schizophrenia II
561679† CRF1 antagonist depression & anxiety II
649868† orexin antagonist sleep disorders II
742457 5HT6 antagonist dementia II
2402968 (PRO051)† antisense oligonucleotide Duchenne muscular dystrophy II
firategrast† dual alpha4 integrin antagonist (VLA4) multiple sclerosis II
Horizant (1838262)† voltage-gated calcium channel modulator migraine prophylaxis II
Horizant (1838262)† voltage-gated calcium channel modulator neuropathic pain II
losmapimod p38 kinase inhibitor pain (also cardiovascular disease, COPD & depression) II
losmapimod p38 kinase inhibitor depression (also cardiovascular disease, COPD & pain) II
orvepitant NK1 antagonist depression & anxiety II
almorexant† orexin antagonist insomnia III
Horizant (1838262)†* voltage-gated calcium channel modulator restless legs syndrome Submitted CR:Feb10
retigabine† neuronal potassium channel opener epilepsy – partial seizures Submitted S:Oct09 S:Oct09
Lamictal XR sodium channel inhibitor epilepsy – partial generalised tonic-clonic seizures, once-daily Approved N/A A:Jan10
Lamictal XR sodium channel inhibitor epilepsy – partial seizures, once-daily Approved N/A A:May09
Oncology
2110183 AKT protein kinase inhibitor cancer I
2118436 BRaf protein kinase inhibitor cancer I
2126458 Pi3 kinase inhibitor cancer I
2141795 AKT protein kinase inhibitor cancer I
184072 SIRT1 activator haematologic cancers (also type 2 diabetes) II
1120212† mitogen-activated protein kinase inhibitor cancer II
(MEK1/2)
2285921† thrombopoietin receptor agonist thrombocytopaenia II
foretinib (1363089)† mesenchymal-epithelial transition factor papillary renal cell carcinoma and other cancers II
(C-met) kinase inhibitor
Revolade/Promacta† thrombopoietin receptor agonist oncology-related thrombocytopaenia II
Tyverb/Tykerb Her2 and EGFR dual kinase inhibitor head & neck squamous cell carcinoma (unresectable disease) II
Votrient (pazopanib) multi-kinase angiogenesis inhibitor breast cancer, adjuvant therapy II
Votrient (pazopanib) multi-kinase angiogenesis inhibitor non-small cell lung cancer, first line & adjuvant therapy II
Votrient (pazopanib) multi-kinase angiogenesis inhibitor ovarian cancer, maintenance therapy III
Revolade/Promacta† thrombopoietin receptor agonist chronic liver disease induced thrombocytopaenia III
Revolade/Promacta† thrombopoietin receptor agonist hepatitis C induced thrombocytopaenia III
Tyverb/Tykerb Her2 and EGFR dual kinase inhibitor breast cancer, adjuvant therapy III
Tyverb/Tykerb Her2 and EGFR dual kinase inhibitor gastric cancer III
Tyverb/Tykerb Her2 and EGFR dual kinase inhibitor head & neck squamous cell carcinoma (resectable disease) III
Votrient (pazopanib) multi-kinase angiogenesis inhibitor sarcoma III
Votrient (pazopanib) + multi-kinase angiogenesis inhibitor + inflammatory breast cancer III
Tyverb/Tykerb Her2 and EGFR dual kinase inhibitor
Avodart 5-alpha reductase inhibitor reduction in the risk of prostate cancer Submitted S:Sep09
Duodart (Avodart + 5-alpha reductase inhibitor + alpha blocker benign prostatic hyperplasia – fixed dose combination Submitted S:Dec08 TA:Jan10
alpha blocker)
Revolade/Promacta† thrombopoietin receptor agonist idiopathic thrombocytopaenic purpura Approved PO:Dec09 A:Nov08
Tyverb/Tykerb Her2 and EGFR dual kinase inhibitor breast cancer, first line therapy Approved PO:Feb10 A:Jan10
Votrient (pazopanib) multi-kinase angiogenesis inhibitor renal cell cancer Approved PO:Feb10 A:Oct09
Ophthalmology
pazopanib multi-kinase angiogenesis inhibitor (oral) age-related macular degeneration (also cancer indications) I
pazopanib multi-kinase angiogenesis inhibitor (eye drops) age-related macular degeneration II
* See Note 40 to the financial statements, ‘Post balance sheet events’.
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
197
Product development pipeline
Achieved Regulatory
review milestones
Compound Type Indication Phase MAA NDA/BLA
Respiratory & Immuno-inflammation
610677 p38 kinase inhibitor (inhaled) COPD I
681323 p38 kinase inhibitor (i.v.) acute lung injury & acute respiratory distress syndrome I
1325756 chemokine receptor (CXCR2) antagonist COPD I
2245840 SIRT1 activator COPD & psoriasis (also type 2 diabetes & sarcopaenia) I
CCX025† CCR9 antagonist Crohn’s disease I
256066 PDE4 inhibitor (inhaled) COPD II
573719 muscarinic acetylcholine antagonist COPD II
573719 + 642444† muscarinic acetylcholine antagonist + COPD II
long-acting beta2 agonist
656933 chemokine receptor (CXCR2) antagonist cystic fibrosis II
685698 glucocorticoid agonist asthma II
705498 transient receptor potential vanilloid (TRPV1) non-allergic rhinitis II
antagonist (intranasal)
870086 novel glucocorticoid agonist (inhaled) asthma II
961081† muscarinic antagonist, beta2 agonist COPD II
962040 motilin receptor agonist delayed gastric emptying II
1399686 anti-inflammatory macrolide conjugate (oral) inflammatory bowel disease II
1605786 (CCX282)† CCR9 antagonist Crohn’s disease II
2190915† 5-lipoxygenase-activating protein (FLAP) asthma II
inhibitor
losmapimod p38 kinase inhibitor (oral) COPD (also cardiovascular disease, pain & depression) II
Relovair long-acting beta2 agonist + glucocorticoid asthma II
(642444† + 685698) agonist
Relovair long-acting beta2 agonist + glucocorticoid COPD III
(642444† + 685698) agonist
642444† long-acting beta2 agonist COPD III
Paediatric Vaccines
Hexavalent combination conjugated Neisseria meningitis C, Haemophilus influenzae I
vaccine type b, diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis and poliomyelitis
disease prophylaxis
Heptavalent combinatio conjugated Neisseria meningitis C, Haemophilus influenzae II
vaccine type b, diphtheria, Hepatitis B, tetanus, pertussis and
poliomyelitis disease prophylaxis
S. pneumoniae paediatric recombinant – conjugated Streptococcus pneumoniae disease prophylaxis II
next generation
Mosquirix recombinant malaria prophylaxis (Plasmodium falciparum) III N/A
Nimenrix (MenACWY-TT) conjugated Neisseria meningitis groups A, C, W & Y disease prophylaxis III
MenHibrix (Hib-MenCY-TT) conjugated Neisseria meningitis groups C & Y & Haemophilus Submitted S:Aug09
influenzae type b disease prophylaxis
Hiberix conjugated paediatric booster for Haemophilus influenzae type b Approved A:Nov07 A:Aug09
Synflorix conjugated Streptococcus pneumoniae disease prophylaxis in infants Approved A:Mar09 N/A
& children
Other Vaccines
Alzheimer’s disease conjugated treatment of Alzheimer’s disease I
Cytomegalovirus recombinant cytomegalovirus infection prophylaxis I
HIV recombinant HIV disease prophylaxis/immunotherapy I
NTHi-Pneumo recombinant Streptococcus pneumoniae and Haemophilus influenzae I
disease prophylaxis in adults
Dengue fever attenuated tetravalent dengue fever prophylaxis II
Tuberculosis recombinant tuberculosis prophylaxis II
Zoster recombinant Herpes Zoster prevention II
New generation flu vaccine inactivated split – trivalent seasonal influenza prophylaxis for the elderly III
Simplirix recombinant genital herpes prophylaxis III
Flu pandemic & H5N1 inactivated split – monovalent pandemic influenza prophylaxis Submitted S:Jul09 S:Jun09
pre-pandemic† (Quebec) (Canada)
Arepanrix
(Flu pandemic)† H1N1 inactivated split adjuvanted – pandemic influenza prophylaxis (emergency use) Approved PO:Jan10 A:Oct09
monovalent (Quebec) (Canada)
Cervarix† recombinant cervical dysplasia and cancer prophylaxis caused Approved A:Sep07 A:Oct09
by HPV 16/18
Influenza A (H1N1) 2009 H1N1 inactivated split – monovalent pandemic influenza A (H1N1) 2009 prophylaxis Approved A:Nov09
monovalent vaccine (Quebec) (emergency use)
(Flu pandemic)†
Pandemrix H1N1 inactivated split adjuvanted – pandemic influenza prophylaxis Approved A: Sep09
(Flu pandemic)† monovalent (Dresden)
GSK Annual Report 2009402–381P
noitamrofni
redloherahS
198
Product development pipeline
Achieved Regulatory
review milestones
Compound Type Indication Phase MAA NDA/BLA
Antigen Specific Cancer Immunotherapeutic (ASCI)
WT1 recombinant treatment of acute myelogenous leukaemia II
MAGE-A3 recombinant treatment of melanoma III
MAGE-A3 recombinant treatment of non-small cell lung cancer III
Dermatology (Stiefel), late stage assets only
Duac low dose clindamycin/benzoyl peroxide gel acne vulgaris III
tazarotene foam retinoid foam acne vulgaris III
calcipotriene vitamin D3 analog mild to moderate plaque psoriasis Submitted S:Dec09
itraconazole tablets oral anti-fungal onychomycosis Submitted S:Mar09
Veltin antibiotic/retinoid gel acne vulgaris Submitted S:Oct09
HIV (ViiV Healthcare)
1265744† HIV integrase inhibitor HIV infections II
1349572† HIV integrase inhibitor HIV infections II
2248761 (IDX899)† non-nucleotide reverse transcriptase HIV infections II
inhibitor
PF-232798 CCR5 antagonist HIV infections II
UK-453061 non-nucleotide reverse transcriptase HIV infections II
inhibitor
Selzentry/Celsentri CCR5 antagonist HIV infection, use in treatment naive patients Approved A:Nov09
Option-based alliances with third parties that include assets in Phase I and Phase II development
Company Disease Area Phase
Anacor Pharmaceuticals anti-bacterial I
ChemoCentryx inflammatory disease* I & II
Concert Pharmaceuticals HIV (protease inhibitor) I
Galapagos autoimmune disease I
NeuroSearch neuroscience (anxiety & pain) I
OncoMed Pharmaceuticals oncology I
Prosensa Therapeutics neuroscience I
Ranbaxy Laboratories respiratory I
Theravance gastrointestinal I
* Two assets
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
199
Shareholder information
The Ordinary Shares of the company are listed on the London Stock Dividends per ADS
Exchange and on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) in the form The table below sets out the dividends per ADS in US dollars in
of American Depositary Shares (ADS). For details of listed debt and the last five years, translated into US dollars at applicable
where it is listed refer to Note 32, ‘Net debt’. exchange rates.
Share price Year US$
2009 2008 2007 2009 1.93
£ £ £ 2008 2.01
At 1st January 12.85 12.79 13.44 2007 2.14
High during the year 13.34 13.85 14.93 2006 1.80
Low during the year 9.87 9.95 11.60 2005 1.57
At 31st December 13.20 12.85 12.79
Increase/(decrease) 2.7% 0.5% (5)% Dividend calendar
Quarter Ex-dividend date Record date Payment date
The table above sets out the middle market closing prices. The
company’s share price increased by 2.7% in 2009. This compares Q4 2009 10th February 2010 12th February 2010 8th April 2010
with an increase in the FTSE 100 index by 22% during the year. Q1 2010 5th May 2010 7th May 2010 8th July 2010
The share price on 19th February 2010 was £12.35. Q2 2010 28th July 2010 30th July 2010 7th October 2010
Q3 2010 27th October 2010 29th October 2010 6th January 2011
Market capitalisation
The market capitalisation, based on shares in issue excluding
Financial reporting calendar
Treasury shares, of GlaxoSmithKline at 31st December 2009 was
£69 billion. At that date GSK was the fifth largest company by Publication Date
market capitalisation on the FTSE index.
Results announcements
SmithKline Beecham plc Floating Rate Quarter 1 April 2010
Quarter 2 July 2010
Unsecured Loan Stock 1990/2010
Quarter 3 October 2010
The Loan Stock is not listed on any exchange but will be redeemed
Preliminary/Quarter 4 February 2011
in its entirety at par, i.e. £1 for every £1 of loan stock held, on
1st June 2010. Annual Report/Summary February/March 2011
Loan Stock holders will not be required to surrender their
Results announcements
certificate(s) for this compulsory redemption, which will be made
automatically at the due time, and a cheque in respect of the Results announcements are issued to the London Stock Exchange
redemption value will be posted on 28th May 2010. and are available on its news service. Shortly afterwards, they are
issued to the media, are made available on the website and sent to
Taxation the US Securities and Exchange Commission and the NYSE.
General information concerning the UK and US tax effects of
Financial reports
share ownership is set out on page 202 ‘Taxation information
for shareholders’. GSK publishes an Annual Report and for the shareholder not needing
the full detail of the Report, a Summary document. These are
Dividends available from the date of publication on the website. The Summary
GlaxoSmithKline pays dividends quarterly. It continues to increase is sent to all shareholders. Shareholders may elect to receive the
cash returns to shareholders through its dividend policy. Dividends Annual Report by writing to the registrars. Alternatively shareholders
remain an essential component of total shareholder return and may elect to receive notification by email of the publication of
GSK is committed to increasing its dividend over the long-term. financial reports by registering on www.shareview.co.uk.
Details of the dividends declared, the amount and the payment
Copies of previous financial reports are available on GSK’s website.
dates are given in Note 16 to the financial statements, ‘Dividends’.
Printed copies can be obtained from the registrars in the UK and
Dividends per share from the GSK Response Center in the USA.
The table below sets out the dividends per share in the last five years.
Corporate responsibility report
Year pence In late March 2010, GSK will publish on the website its
Corporate Responsibility Report covering performance in areas
2009 61
including community investment, ethics and integrity, access to
2008 57
medicines, R&D and environment, health and safety.
2007 53
2006 48
2005 44
GSK Annual Report 2009402–381P
noitamrofni
redloherahS
200
Shareholder information
Nature of trading market Annual General Meeting 2010
The following tables set out, for the periods indicated, the high
The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, 6th May 2010
and low middle market closing quotations in pence for the shares
Broad Sanctuary, Westminster,
on the London Stock Exchange, and the high and low last reported
London SW1P 3EE
sales prices in US dollars for the ADS on the NYSE.
Pence per share The AGM is the company’s principal forum for communication
High Low with private shareholders. In addition to the formal business
Quarter ended 31st March 2010* 1340 1196 there will be a presentation by the Chief Executive Officer on the
February 2010* 1245 1196 performance of the Group and its future development. There will
January 2010 1340 1217 be opportunity for questions to the Board, and the Chairmen of
the Board’s Committees will take questions on matters relating to
December 2009 1334 1280
those committees.
November 2009 1290 1219
October 2009 1281 1219 Investors holding shares through a nominee service should
September 2009 1252 1176 arrange with that nominee service to be appointed as a corporate
Quarter ended 31st December 2009 1334 1219 representative or proxy in respect of their shareholding in order to
Quarter ended 30th September 2009 1252 1063 attend and vote at the meeting.
Quarter ended 30th June 2009 1117 987
ADR holders wishing to attend the meeting must obtain a proxy
Quarter ended 31st March 2009 1305 1003
from The Bank of New York Mellon which will enable them to
Quarter ended 31st December 2008 1285 995
attend and vote on the business to be transacted. ADR holders
Quarter ended 30th September 2008 1327 1103
may instruct The Bank of New York Mellon as to the way in which
Quarter ended 30th June 2008 1153 1053
the shares represented by their ADR should be voted by completing
Quarter ended 31st March 2008 1385 1001
and returning the voting card provided by the bank in accordance
Year ended 31st December 2007 1493 1160
with the instructions given.
Year ended 31st December 2006 1577 1326
Year ended 31st December 2005 1544 1175 Documents on display
The Memorandum and Articles of Association of the company
and other documents referred to in this Annual Report are
US dollars per ADS
available for inspection at the Registered Office of the company.
High Low
Quarter ended 31st March 2010* 42.97 37.52 Exchange controls and other limitations
February 2010* 39.49 37.52 affecting security holders
January 2010 42.97 39.01
There are currently no UK laws, decrees or regulations restricting
December 2009 42.91 41.59 the import or export of capital or affecting the remittance of
November 2009 42.88 40.30 dividends or other payments to holders of the company’s shares
October 2009 41.91 38.72 who are non-residents of the UK. There are no limitations relating
September 2009 39.67 38.60 only to non-residents of the UK under English law or the company’s
Quarter ended 31st December 2009 42.91 38.72 Memorandum and Articles of Association on the right to be a
Quarter ended 30th September 2009 40.03 34.36 holder of, and to vote in respect of, the company’s shares.
Quarter ended 30th June 2009 36.56 29.11
Quarter ended 31st March 2009 39.24 27.27
Quarter ended 31st December 2008 43.39 32.02
Quarter ended 30th September 2008 49.03 42.08
Quarter ended 30th June 2008 45.36 41.39
Quarter ended 31st March 2008 54.36 40.85
Year ended 31st December 2007 59.35 47.87
Year ended 31st December 2006 58.38 50.15
Year ended 31st December 2005 53.53 44.48
* to 19th February 2010
Internet
Information about the company including details of the share
price is available on GSK’s website at www.gsk.com. Information
made available on the website does not constitute part of this
Annual Report.
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
201
Shareholder information
Duplicate publications ADR programme administrator
Queries relating to receipt of duplicate copies of GSK’s publications The ADR programme is administered by:
should be addressed to the registrars. BNY Mellon Shareowner Services
PO Box 358516
Investor relations
Pittsburgh, PA 15252-8516
Investor relations may be contacted as follows: www.bnymellon.com/shareowner
Tel: 1 877 353 1154 (US toll free)
UK
Tel: +1 201 680 6825 (outside the USA)
980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex TW8 9GS
email: shrrelations@bnymellon.com
Tel: +44 (0)20 8047 5000
The administrators also provide Global BuyDIRECT, a direct ADS
USA
purchase/sale and dividend reinvestment plan for ADR holders.
One Franklin Plaza, PO Box 7929, Philadelphia PA 19101
GSK Response Center
Tel: 1 888 825 5249 (US toll free)
Tel: 1 888 825 5249 (US toll free)
Tel: +1 215 751 4000 (outside the USA)
The provision of the details above is not intended to be an
Registrar
invitation or inducement to engage in an investment activity.
The company’s registrars are: Advice on share dealing should be obtained from a stockbroker
or independent financial adviser.
Equiniti Limited
Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA
www.shareview.co.uk
Tel: 0871 384 2991 (inside the UK)
Tel: +44 (0)121 415 7067 (outside the UK)
Equiniti also provides the following services:
• Nominee dealing account and Individual Savings Account (ISA)
• G laxoSmithKline Corporate Sponsored Nominee
• S hareview service
• Share dealing service
• Dividend Reinvestment Plan.
Share dealing service
Shareholders may trade shares, either held in certificates or in the
Corporate Sponsored Nominee by internet or telephone through
Shareview Dealing, a share dealing service provided by Equiniti
Financial Services Limited. For internet deals log on to www.
shareview.co.uk/dealing. For telephone deals call 08456 037 037
(inside the UK only).
For the nominee and ISA service, either www.shareview.co.uk/
dealing or call 0845 300 0430. Telephone services are available
between 8.00 and 18.00, Monday to Friday (market trading
hours 8.00–16.30).
Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham
Corporate PEPs
The Share Centre Limited
Oxford House, Oxford Road, Aylesbury, Bucks HP21 8SZ
Tel: +44 (0)1296 414141
GSK Annual Report 2009402–381P
noitamrofni
redloherahS
202
Taxation information for shareholders
A summary of certain UK tax and US federal income tax subject to US federal income tax on a net income basis in respect
consequences for certain holders of shares and ADR who are of the shares or ADR) that holds shares or ADR as capital assets,
citizens of the UK or the USA is set out below. It is not a complete is not resident in the UK for UK tax purposes and does not hold
analysis of all the possible tax consequences of the purchase or shares for the purposes of a trade, profession or vocation that is
ownership of these securities. It is intended only as a general guide. carried on in the UK through a branch or agency. The summary
Holders are advised to consult their advisers with respect to the tax also does not address the tax treatment of holders that are subject
consequences of the purchase and ownership of their shares or ADR, to special tax rules, such as banks, tax-exempt entities, insurance
and the consequences under state and local tax laws in the USA and companies, dealers in securities or currencies, persons that hold
the implications of the current UK/US Income Tax convention. shares or ADR as part of an integrated investment (including a
‘straddle’) comprised of a share or ADR and one or more other
US holders of ADR generally will be treated as the owners of the
positions, and persons that own (directly or indirectly) 10% or
underlying shares for the purposes of the current USA/UK double
more of the voting stock of GSK.
taxation conventions relating to income and gains (Income Tax
Convention), estate and gift taxes (Estate and Gift Tax Convention) Taxation of dividends
and for the purposes of the US Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as The gross amount of dividends received is treated as foreign source
amended (the Code). dividend income for US tax purposes. It is not eligible for the dividend
received deduction allowed to US corporations. Dividends on ADR
UK shareholders
are payable in US dollars; dividends on shares are payable in Sterling.
This summary only applies to a UK resident shareholder that holds
Dividends paid in pounds Sterling will be included in income in the
shares as capital assets.
US dollar amount calculated by reference to the exchange rate on
Taxation of dividends the day the dividends are received by the holder. Subject to certain
exceptions for short-term or hedged positions, an individual eligible
UK resident individual shareholders will generally be subject to UK
US holder will be subject to US taxation at a maximum rate of 15%
income tax on the full amount of dividends paid, grossed up for
in respect of qualified dividends received before 2011.
the amount of a one ninth dividend tax credit. The tax credit may
be set against the individual’s income tax liability in respect of the Taxation of capital gains
gross dividend, but is not repayable to shareholders with a tax
Generally, US holders will not be subject to UK capital gains tax,
liability of less than the associated tax credit. For the tax year
but will be subject to US tax on capital gains realised on the sale
2010-11 and subsequent tax years, an additional rate of income
or other disposal of shares or ADR. Such gains will be long-term
tax on dividends will be imposed for taxpayers whose income is
capital gains (subject to reduced rates of taxation for individual
above £150,000. UK resident shareholders that are corporation
holders) if the shares or ADR were held for more than one year.
taxpayers should note that dividends paid after 1st July 2009 are
generally entitled to exemption from corporation tax under new Information reporting and backup withholding
rules. If shareholders are in any doubt as to their position, they Dividends and payments of the proceeds on a sale of shares or
should consult their own professional advisers. ADR, paid within the USA or through certain US-related financial
intermediaries are subject to information reporting and may be
Taxation of capital gains
subject to backup withholding unless the US holder is a corporation
UK shareholders may be liable for UK tax on gains on the disposal
or other exempt recipient or provides a taxpayer identification
of shares or ADR. For disposals by individuals, a capital gain
number and certifies that no loss of exemption has occurred.
will be taxed at a flat rate of 18%, subject to the availability
Non-US holders generally are not subject to information reporting
of any exemption or relief such as the annual exempt amount.
or backup withholding, but may be required to provide a
Corporation taxpayers may be entitled to an indexation allowance
certification of their non-US status in connection with payments
which applies to reduce capital gains to the extent that such
received. Any amounts withheld will be allowed as a refund or
gains arise due to inflation. Indexation allowance may reduce a
credit against a holder’s US federal income tax liability provided the
chargeable gain but will not create an allowable loss.
required information is furnished to the IRS.
Inheritance tax
Estate and gift taxes
Individual shareholders may be liable to inheritance tax on the
Under the Estate and Gift Tax Convention, a US shareholder is not
transfer of shares or ADR. Tax may be charged on the amount by
generally subject to UK inheritance tax.
which the value of the shareholder’s estate is reduced as a result
of any transfer by way of gift or other disposal at less than full Stamp duty
market value. UK stamp duty or SDRT will, subject to certain exemptions,
be payable on any issue or transfer of shares to the ADR custodian
If such a gift or other disposal were subject to both UK inheritance
or depository at a rate of 1.5% of their price (if issued), the amount
tax and US estate or gift tax, the Estate and Gift Tax Convention
of any consideration provided (if transferred on sale), or their value
would generally provide for tax paid in the USA to be credited
(if transferred for no consideration).
against tax payable in the UK.
No SDRT would be payable on the transfer of an ADR. No UK
Stamp duty
stamp duty should be payable on the transfer of an ADR provided
UK stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax (SDRT) will, subject to that any instrument of transfer is executed and remains at all
certain exemptions, be payable on the purchase of shares at a rate
times outside the UK. Any stamp duty on the transfer of an ADR
of 0.5% of the purchase price.
would be payable at a rate of 0.5% of the consideration for the
US shareholders transfer. Any sale of the underlying shares would, subject to certain
exceptions, result in liability to UK stamp duty or, as the case may
This summary only applies to a shareholder (a citizen or resident of
be, SDRT at a rate of 0.5%.
the USA or a domestic corporation or a person that is otherwise
GSK Annual Report 2009Business
review
P06–P53
Governance
and
remuneration
P54–P90
Financial
statements
P91–P182
Shareholder
information
P183–P204
203
Glossary of terms
Terms used in the Annual Report US equivalent or brief description
Accelerated capital allowances Tax allowance in excess of depreciation arising from the purchase of fixed assets that delay
the charging and payment of tax. The US equivalent of tax depreciation.
American Depositary Receipt (ADR) Receipt evidencing title to an ADS. Each GlaxoSmithKline ADR represents two
Ordinary Shares.
American Depositary Shares (ADS) Listed on the New York Stock Exchange; represents two Ordinary Shares.
Basic earnings per share Basic income per share.
Called-up share capital Ordinary Shares, issued and fully paid.
CER growth Growth at constant exchange rates.
Combined Code Guidelines required by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority to address the
principal aspects of Corporate Governance.
The company GlaxoSmithKline plc.
Currency swap An exchange of two currencies, coupled with a subsequent re-exchange of those currencies,
at agreed exchange rates and dates.
Defined benefit plan Pension plan with specific employee benefits, often called ‘final salary scheme’.
Defined contribution plan Pension plan with specific contributions and a level of pension dependent upon the growth
of the pension fund.
Derivative financial instrument A financial instrument that derives its value from the price or rate of some underlying item.
Diluted earnings per share Diluted income per share.
Employee Share Ownership Plan Trusts Trusts established by the Group to satisfy share-based employee incentive plans.
Finance lease Capital lease.
Freehold Ownership with absolute rights in perpetuity.
Gearing ratio Net debt as a percentage of total equity.
The Group GlaxoSmithKline plc and its subsidiary undertakings.
Hedging The reduction of risk, normally in relation to foreign currency or interest rate movements,
by making off-setting commitments.
Intangible fixed assets Assets without physical substance, such as computer software, brands, licences, patents,
know-how and marketing rights purchased from outside parties.
Profit Income.
Profit attributable to shareholders Net income.
Share capital Ordinary Shares, capital stock or common stock issued and fully paid.
Shareholders’ funds Shareholders’ equity.
Share option Stock option.
Share premium account Additional paid-up capital or paid-in surplus (not distributable).
Shares in issue The number of shares outstanding.
Subsidiary An entity in which GlaxoSmithKline holds a majority shareholding and/or exercises control.
Treasury share Treasury stock.
Turnover Revenue.
GSK Annual Report 2009402–381P
noitamrofni
redloherahS
204
Index
Page Page
2009 Performance overview 06 Interest rate risk management 42
Accounting principles and policies 100 Internal control framework 65
Acquisitions and disposals 143 Inventories 126
Adjustments reconciling profit after tax to operating cash flows 142 Investments in associates and joint ventures 125
Annual General Meeting 65,200 Investor relations 201
Annual remuneration 83 Key accounting judgements and estimates 104
Assets held for sale 127 Key performance indicators 06
Associates and joint ventures 114 Legal proceedings 169
Board 54 Major restructuring programmes 110
Business review 06 Movements in equity 141
Cash and cash equivalents 127 Nature of trading market 200
Chairman and CEO summary 02 Net debt 138
Combined Code 71 New accounting requirements 106
Commitments 151 Non-Executive Director terms and conditions 81
Committee reports 67 Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration 84
Competition 11 Notes to the financial statements 99
Consolidated balance sheet 96 Operating profit 112
Consolidated cash flow statement 98 Other intangible assets 123
Consolidated income statement 94 Other investments 126
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 97 Other non-current assets 126
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 94 Other non-current liabilities 138
Consumer Healthcare 13,14,17,26,30,50,190 Other operating income 112
Contingent liabilities 138 Other provisions 136
Corporate Executive Team 56 Outlook 27
Corporate governance 54 Pensions and other post-employment benefits 128
Critical accounting policies 34 Performance overview 06
Dialogue with shareholders 62 Pharmaceutical turnover 28
Directors and Senior Management 90 Post balance sheet events 151
Directors and Senior Management remuneration 82 Presentation of the financial statements 99
Directors’ interests 85 Principal Group companies 166
Directors’ interests in contracts 90 Product development pipeline 195
Directors’ statement of responsibilities 92 Products 11
Dividends 118 Property, plant and equipment 118
Donations to EU political organisations and EU Quarterly trend 184
political expenditure 64 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt 143
Earnings per share 117 Registrar 201
Economy 27 Regulation 26
Employee costs 113 Related party transactions 142
Employee share schemes 161 Remuneration policy 74-82
Employees 20 Remuneration Report 73
Exchange rates 106 Report of the Directors 08
Executive Director terms and conditions 81 Research and development 15
Finance costs 114 Responsibility 21
Finance income 113 Risk factors 43
Financial instruments and related disclosures 152 Segment information 107
Financial position and resources 36 Share capital and control 63
Financial review 2008 48 Share capital and share premium account 140
Financial review 2009 28 Share options 86
Financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc, prepared Share price and dividends 199
under UK GAAP 177 Shareholder information 183
Financial trends 09 Strategy 04
Five year record 192 Taxation 115
Foreign exchange management 42 Taxation information for shareholders 202
Global manufacturing and supply 14 Total equity 37
Glossary of terms 203 Trade and other payables 128
Goodwill 120 Trade and other receivables 127
Governance and policy 58 Trademarks 13
Improving access to medicines 21 Treasury operations 42
Incentive plans 86 US law and regulation 71
Independent Auditors’ report 93 World economy 27
Intellectual property 11 World market 27
GSK Annual Report 2009Head Office and Registered Office
GlaxoSmithKline plc
980 Great West Road
Brentford, Middlesex TW8 9GS
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)20 8047 5000 G SK is changing
Registered number: 3888792
Printed in the UK. The paper used
Annual Report 2009
in the production of this document
is made from 100% post consumer
waste. The pulp is bleached using
a totally chlorine free process. Do more, feel better, live longer
GlaxoSmithKline
Annual
Report
2009
www.gsk.com