Annual Report 2004
New challenges
New thinking
Do more, feel better, live longerMission Our global quest is to improve the quality of human life
by enabling people to do more, feel better and live longer.
Our Spirit We undertake our quest with the enthusiasm of entrepreneurs,
excited by the constant search for innovation. We value
performance achieved with integrity. We will attain
success as a world class global leader with each and every
one of our people contributing with passion and an unmatched
sense of urgency.
Strategic Intent We want to become the indisputable leader in our industry.
GlaxoSmithKline plc is an English public limited company. Business segments
Itshares are listed on the London Stock Exchange and the GlaxoSmithKline operates principally in two industry
New York Stock Exchange. segments:
• Pharmaceuticals (prescription pharmaceuticals and
History and development of the company
vaccines)
GlaxoSmithKline plc, and its subsidiary and associated
• Consumer Healthcare (over-the-counter medicines,
undertakings, constitute a major global healthcare group
oral care and nutritional healthcare).
engaged in the creation, discovery, development,
manufacture and marketing of pharmaceutical and
Annual Report and Review
consumer health-related products.
This report is the Annual Report of GlaxoSmithKline plc
GlaxoSmithKline has its corporate head office in London. forthe year ended 31st December 2004, preparedin
It also has operational headquarters in Philadelphia and accordancewith United Kingdom requirements.
Research Triangle Park, USA, and operations in some
A summary report on the year, the Annual Review 2004,
116 countries, with products sold in over 125 countries.
intended for the investor not needing the full detail of
The principal research and development (R&D) facilities
the Annual Report, is produced as a separate document.
are in the UK, the USA, Japan, Italy, Spain and Belgium.
TheAnnual Review includes the joint statement by the
Products are currently manufactured in some 38 countries.
Chairmanand the Chief Executive Officer, a summary
The major markets for the Group’s products are the USA, review of operations, summary financial statements and
France, Japan, the UK, Italy, Germany and Spain. a summary remuneration report.
GlaxoSmithKline plc is a public limited company The Annual Review is issued to all shareholders. The
incorporated on 6th December 1999 under English law. Annual Report is issued to shareholders who have elected
On 27th December 2000 the company acquired Glaxo to receive it.Both documents are available on
Wellcome plc and SmithKline Beecham plc, both English GlaxoSmithKline’s corporatewebsiteat www.gsk.com.
public limited companies, by way of a scheme of
arrangement for the merger of the two companies. Website
Both Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham were GlaxoSmithKline’s website, www.gsk.com gives additional
major global healthcare businesses. information on the Group. Information made available on
the website does not constitute part of this Annual Report.GlaxoSmithKline 01
GlaxoSmithKline plc
Annual Report
for the year ended 31st December 2004
Contents
Report of the Directors
02 Financial summary
03 Joint statement by the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer
05 Description of business
33 Corporate governance
43 RemunerationReport
59 Operating and financial review and prospects
Financial statements
88 Directors’ statements of responsibility
89 Independent Auditors’ report
90 Consolidated statement of profit and loss
90 Consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses
92 Consolidated statement of cash flow
94 Consolidated balance sheet
94 Reconciliation of movements in consolidated equity shareholders’
funds
95 Company balance sheet
96 Notes to the financial statements
Investor information
154 Financial record
163 Financial information under International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRS)
174 Shareholder return
175 Shareholder information
176 Share capital
178 Taxation information for shareholders
179 Cross reference to Form 20-F
180 Glossary of terms
The Annual Report was approved by the Board
of Directors on2ndMarch 2005 and published
on4thMarch 2005. Contact details02 GlaxoSmithKline
Financial summary
2003
2004 (restated) Growth
Statutory results £m £m CER% £%
Turnover 20,359 21,441 1 (5)
Trading profit 6,150 6,509 5 (6)
Profit before taxation 6,119 6,313 8 (3)
Earnings/Net income 4,302 4,478 7 (4)
Basic earnings per share 75.0p 77.1p 8 (3)
Dividends per share 42.0p 41.0p
Merger, restructuring and disposal of subsidiaries
Trading profit – (395)
Profit before taxation – (390)
Earnings/Net income – (281)
Earnings per share – (4.9)p
Business performance
Turnover 20,359 21,441 1 (5)
Trading profit 6,150 6,904 (1) (11)
Profit before taxation 6,119 6,703 2 (9)
Adjusted earnings/Net income 4,302 4,759 1 (10)
Adjusted earnings per share 75.0p 82.0p 2 (9)
The Group,as a multinational business, operates in many countries and earns revenues and incurs costs in many currencies. The results of the
Group, as reported in sterling, are therefore affected by movements in exchange rates between sterling and overseas currencies. Average
exchange rates prevailing during the period are used to translate the results and cash flows of overseas subsidiary and associated
undertakings and joint ventures into sterling. Period end rates are used to translate the net assets of those undertakings. The currencies which
most influence these translations are the USdollar, the Euro and the Japanese Yen.
In order to illustrate underlying performance, it is the Group’s practice to discuss its results in terms of constant exchange rate (CER) growth.
This represents growth calculated as if the exchange rates used to determine the results of overseas companies in sterling had remained
unchanged from those used in the previous year. CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates. £% represents growth at actual
exchange rates.
During the years 2000 to 2003, business performance was the primary performance measure used by management and was presented after
excluding merger items, integration and restructuring costs and disposals of businesses. Management believesthat exclusion of these items
providesa bettercomparison of the way in which the business was managed and givesan indication of the performance of the Group in
terms of those elements of revenue and expenditure which local management was able to influence.
For 2004, with the completion of these programmes, the Group is reporting results on a statutory basis only. Growth rates are presented
comparing 2004 results both with 2003 business performance results and 2003 statutory results. Management considers that the comparison
of 2004 statutory results with 2003 business performance results gives the most appropriate indication of the Group’s performance for the
period under review and therefore commentaries are presented on this basis unless otherwise stated.
Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements
The Group's reports filed with or furnished to the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including this document and written information released,
or oral statements made, to the public in the future by or on behalf of the Group, may contain forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements give
the Group's current expectations or forecasts of future events. An investor can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical
or current facts. They use words such as ‘anticipate’, ‘estimate’, ‘expect’, ‘intend’, ‘will’, ‘project’, ‘plan’, ‘believe’ and other words and terms of similar meaning
in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, prospective
products or product approvals, future performance or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, the outcome of contingencies such
as legal proceedings, and financial results. The Group undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new
information, future events or otherwise.
Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties. The Group cautions investors that a number of important factors including those in this
document could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement. Such factors include, but are not limited to,
those discussed under ‘Risk factors’ on pages76to78of this Annual Report.GlaxoSmithKline 03
Joint statement by the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer
We knew 2004 would be a challenging Our pipeline is focused on developing new medicines and
vaccines to treat diseases of unmet medical need, such as cancer
year for GlaxoSmithKline and we are
and Alzheimer’s disease. Many of these have the potential to be
pleased to report that we have achieved important new products.
our financial and business objectives. For example, we believe that Cervarix, our promising vaccine
candidate against cervical cancer, has the potential to make a
major contribution to healthcare globally and to become our
In our last Annual Report, we predicted that 2004 would be a best-selling vaccine. We expect to file Cervarix in the European
challenging year as we felt the full impact of generic competition Union and international markets in 2006.
to Paxiland the introduction of generic Wellbutrin.
GlaxoSmithKline managed this year well, thanks to the underlying Great opportunities lie ahead of us. This year, we will work to
strength of the business. In fact, GlaxoSmithKline is a much ensure a greater understanding by key stakeholders of the value
stronger company today than it was a year ago. of innovative medicines. We will continue our contribution to
finding a solution to the healthcare funding crisis, and we will
Our broad-based portfolio of fast-growing products and continued seek new ways of improving access to our medicines for the
focus on controlling costs enabled us to absorb the loss of more people who need them most but are least able to pay for them.
than £1.5 billion of business to generics and still achieve a Our Corporate Responsibility Principles continue to guide the way
one per cent increase in global pharmaceutical sales. Turnover we do business. A separate 2004 Corporate Responsibility Report
of £20 billion grew one per cent at constant exchange rates (CER), (available from the GlaxoSmithKlinewebsite) explains progress
and we achieved our guidance of earnings per share (EPS) at least against these Principles during the year.
in line with business performance EPS in 2003 (at CER). Our EPS
grew two per cent to 75 pence in 2004. Acknowledgements
We acknowledge with gratitude the contribution of
In 2005, we expect to see faster growth with an EPS percentage Sir Christopher Hogg and Sir Peter Job, who retired from the
CER growth in the low double-digit range on an International Board at the end of 2004. Sir Christopher chaired GlaxoSmithKline
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) basis. This is being driven by through a period that saw the company derive the full benefits
the strong growth of key products and continuing efficiencies in of the merger and meet the challenges caused by the loss of
our operations. Our most exciting phase of growth will come patent protection on major products.
when the new compounds and vaccines currently in development
start contributing to our performance over the next few years. John Coombe, Chief Financial Officer, will retire from the Board
of GlaxoSmithKline on 31st March 2005. John has served
GlaxoSmithKline has one of the largest and most promising GlaxoSmithKline and its predecessor companies in an exemplary
pipelines in the industry, with 140 projects in clinical development manner for more than 18 years, playing a major role in guiding
(as at the end of February 2005), including 88 New Chemical the company through the post-merger period and establishing
Entities (NCEs), 32 Product Line Extensions and 20 vaccines. Of GlaxoSmithKlineas a leader within the global pharmaceutical
these compounds, 43 NCEs have moved into Phase II trials, industry.
including compounds to treat HIV, diabetes, blood disorders and
multiple sclerosis, and data on at least 15 of these are expected We thank all three departing directors for their substantial
during 2005. In 2005, we also anticipate the launch of six new contributions to GlaxoSmithKline and wish them well for
products, including Rotarixfor rotavirus, Vesicarefor overactive the future.
bladder, Bonivafor osteoporosis, Avandarylfor diabetes, Requip
for restless legs syndrome and Enteregfor post-operative bowel
disorders.
Sir Christopher Gent Jean-Pierre Garnier
Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer04 GlaxoSmithKlineGlaxoSmithKline 05
Description of business
The Description of business discusses the strategy, the activities,
the resourcesandthe operating environment of the business
and identifies developments and achievements in 2004, under
the following headings:
Strategy
06 Strategy
07 Buildthe best product pipeline in the industry
18 Achievecommercial and operational excellence
19 Improve access to medicines
20 Bethe best place for the best people to do their best work
21 Investincommunities
23 Consumer Healthcare
24 Global manufacturing and supply
Products and competition
25 Pharmaceutical
28 ConsumerHealthcare
Regulatory environment
29 Regulation
30 Intellectual property
31 Responsibility for environment,health and safety
Discussion of the Group’s management structures and corporate
governance procedures is set out in Corporate governance
(pages33to42).
The Remuneration Report gives details of the Group’s policies on
Directors’ remuneration and the amounts earned by Directors
and senior management in 2004 (pages43to58).
Discussion of the Group’s operating and financial performance
and financial resources is given in the Operating and financial
review andprospects (pages59to86).
In this report: ‘GlaxoSmithKline’ or the ‘Group’ means
GlaxoSmithKline plc and its subsidiary undertakings and
the‘company’ means GlaxoSmithKline plc. ‘GlaxoSmithKline share’
means an Ordinary Share ofGlaxoSmithKline plc of 25p. An
American Depositary Share (ADS) represents two GlaxoSmithKline
shares.
Throughout this report, figures quoted for market size, market
share and market growth rates relate to the 12 months ended
30th September 2004(orlater where available). These are
GlaxoSmithKline estimates based onthe most recent data from
independent external sources, valued in sterling at relevant
exchange rates. Figures quoted for product market share reflect
sales by GlaxoSmithKline and licensees.
Brand names appearing in italics throughout this report are
trademarks either owned by and/or licensed to GlaxoSmithKline
or associated companies, with theexception of Baycoland Levitra,
trademarks of Bayer,Hepsera, a trademark of Gilead Services
in some countries including the USA, Integrilin,a trademark of
Cor Therapeutics, Micropump, a trademark of Flamel Technologies,
Nicoderm, a trade mark of Sanofi-Aventis, Elan, Novartisor
GlaxoSmithKline in certain countries, Natrecor, a trademark of
Sciosand Janssen, Navelbine, a trademark of Pierre Fabre
Médicament, Vesicare, a trademark of Yamanouchi Pharmaceuticals,
Boniva/Bonviva,atrademarkof Roche, Entereg,a trademark
of Adolor Corporation and Pritor, a trademark of Boehringer
Ingelheim, all of which are used in certain countries under
license by the Group.06 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business
Strategy
GlaxoSmithKline’s business goal is to become the indisputable Bethe best place for the best people to do their best work
leader in the pharmaceutical andconsumerhealthcare industry. The single greatest source of competitive advantage of any
Achieving this goal will require meeting the three key challenges organisationis its people. The Group’s ambition is to make it the
that face both the industry and society as a whole: place where great people apply their energy and passion to
make a difference in the world. Their skills and intellect are key
• improving productivity in research and development
components in the successful implementation of the Group’s
• ensuring patients have access to new medicines
strategy. The work environment supports an informed, empowered
• reaching consumers beyond the traditional healthcare
and resilient workforce, in which the Group values and draws on
professional.
the diverse knowledge, perspectives, experience, and styles of the
GlaxoSmithKline has developed strategies which focus on a global community. Further details are given on page20.
number of key business drivers in order to meet these challenges.
Investincommunities
Buildthe best product pipeline in the industry GlaxoSmithKline continues to build on its history of community
The Group is aiming to create thebestproductpipeline in the investment programmes. Theseprovide supportfor better
industry for the benefit of patients, consumers and society. This healthcare delivery and education in under-served communities
includes developing a focused portfolio strategy to support around the world. The Group does this through active engagement
the pipeline and manage the full life cycle of compounds from with numerous external stakeholders including the World Health
launch as a prescription medicine through to becoming over-the- Organisation and members of the not-for-profit community. It
counter productswhere appropriate. This strategy includes funds community-led initiatives across the world and donates
selective in-licensing and efficient execution of development, medicines to support humanitarian efforts and community-based
commercialisation and the supply chain processes. healthcare. Many of the programmes are long-term commitments
that help bring about sustainable change in communities. Further
GlaxoSmithKline’s R&D organisation measures productivityby the
details are given on pages21to22.
number and innovation of the products it creates,and also by the
commercial value of the products and their ability to address the
Committocorporate responsibility
unmet needs of all consumers. This includespatients, healthcare
GlaxoSmithKline is committed to connecting business decisions
professionals, budget holders and regulators, each with their own
to ethical, social and environmental concerns. Thus, corporate
perspective on what constitutes a valuable new product.
responsibility is an integral and embedded part of the way we
Further details are given on pages7to17.
do business.
Achievecommercial and operational excellence In 2003,GlaxoSmithKline published a set ofCorporate
GlaxoSmithKline links research and commercial operations closely ResponsibilityPrinciples to provide guidance on the standards
in order to maximise the value of the portfolio. As compounds to which theGroupis committed. This sets out the approach
aredeveloped and tested,marketing campaigns andsales efforts to ten areas: standards of ethical conduct,research and
areplanned. Where appropriate within markets, the Group aims innovation, products and customers, access to medicines,
to build strong relationships with patients and consumers as the employment practices, human rights, community investment,
ultimateusersof its medicines. caring for the environment,leadership and advocacy, and
engagement with stakeholders. The Groupreportsannually
Common approaches to management processes and business
on progress in upholding these principles in its Corporate
functions are used by an internationally diverse and talented
Responsibility Report,which is available on the website at
management team in order to create and sustain competitive
www.gsk.com.
advantage in all markets. Further details are given on page18.
Improve access to medicines
GlaxoSmithKline has created extensive programmes designed to
improve the healthcare of people who have limited access to
medicines both in the developed and developing world.
These are set out in the‘Improve access to medicines’section
of thisreport (page19).Description of business GlaxoSmithKline 07
Build the best product pipeline in the industry
Research and development – Pharmaceuticals Finding candidate compounds
Research and Development (R&D)operates on a global basis, Early research and the role of genetics
employing over 15,000 staff at sites mainly in the UK and the USA The early stages of finding new medicines requires essentially two
but also in Belgium, Canada, France, India, Italy, Japan, and Spain. components; targets that can be shown to affect mechanisms
In addition, R&D has partnerships with other companies worldwide of important pathological processes in human disease,and
in order to benefit from the particular skills and expertise that are compoundsable to modulate the behaviour of specific targets.
available in particular locations. As part of this target validation process, GlaxoSmithKline aims
to identify the genes most relevant to common diseases with
Focus on the patient large unmet medical needs and major patient burdens.
GlaxoSmithKline’s strategic intent is to become the indisputable
Many diseases arise through complex interactions between a
leader in the industry.Itssuccessisdependent on a vibrant,
number of gene variants and environmental factors, so the
productiveR&Dfunction supporting existing products and
challenge is significant. Identifying the genes that predispose
developing new ways to help patients.R&Dis increasingly
patients to a particular disease and understanding their rolesin
seeking the views of patients to understandthe most important
its progression lead to new ways to intervene in these diseases.
aspects of their disease and the impact it has on their lives. In
Genes of interest have been identified for asthma and non-insulin
addition todiscussionswith key opinion leaders, GlaxoSmithKline
dependent diabetes.Further genetic association studies in well
is devoting more resource to a dialogue with patients and their
phenotyped patientsare under way in schizophrenia, unipolar
families. This information may then be used to shape drug
depression, obesity, Alzheimer’s disease, rheumatoid arthritis,
development programmes. Once a new medicine is ready for
osteoarthritis, metabolic syndrome,chronic obstructive pulmonary
launch, GlaxoSmithKline then knows it will bring clear benefit to
disease (COPD), coronary artery disease and acute coronary
patients’lives.
syndrome.
Productivity GlaxoSmithKline is justly proud of its reputation for applied
A continued high priority during 2004 has been the challenge scientific excellence and is at the forefront of many advances
of increasing productivity, both through improving science and which are harnessed to find new medicines as quickly as possible.
through managing the entire R&D organisation so that its resources One example of where theGroup is helping to move the
are optimallyfocusedon the discovery and development of new understandingof disease processes forward is the development
medicines. Some of the scientific initiatives that have enhanced of imaging techniques that may be validated to act as surrogate
productivity are discussed below. Programmes to identify markers for disease. This allows increasingly accurate prediction
association between diseases and genes have facilitated the linkage of the clinical effect of lead molecules and drug candidates before
of cellular targets to disease, identifying for GlaxoSmithKline the embarkingon the later stages of development and thus more
areas of research that are most likely to produce new ways of efficient useof resources.
helping patients. Increased automation in the screening of
compounds has provided more lead compounds more quickly and Discovery Research
of higher quality than before. Further improvements have been Discovery Research (DR) produces the lead compounds that form
made in imaging techniques to allow early decisions on which the basis of drug discovery efforts in the Centresof Excellence for
compounds to progress. In addition, the greater use of automation Drug Discovery (CEDDs). In 2004, DR has provided the CEDDs with
in the laboratory environment and expansion of the electronic over45high-quality new lead compounds with activity against
collection of clinical trial information allow scientists to become defined targets. Investment in DR has been focused on increasing
more productive throughout the discovery and development the quality and quantity of the lead compounds available.
process.
This year, R&D has completed the current phase of its investment
GlaxoSmithKline’s product development pipeline, set out on pages in automation with the opening of a new combined facility for
14to17, shows considerable breadth and depth. At the end of high-throughput screening and high-throughput chemistry in
February 2005GlaxoSmithKline had195pharmaceutical and Upper Providence,USA. This has enabled the screening of over
vaccine projects in development of which 140are in the clinic. one million compounds in 2004, with a success ratio that has
consistently increased over the investment period. In addition, a
Molecular Imaging Centre of Excellence (MICE) in Upper Merion,
USAwas opened, providing a platform to develop non-invasive,
multi-modal imaging technologies for preclinical applications.08 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business
Build the best product pipeline in the industry continued
Compounds progressed into Phase I clinical development in 2004
During 2004 a number of discovery projects, listed in the table below, progressed through non-clinical safety testing and into early (Phase I)
clinical development undertaken by the CEDDs. These compounds are continuing their rigorous non-clinical, clinical and commercial
assessments, leading to proof of concept decisions over the next 12–18 months.
Compound/Product Mechanism Indication
159802 long-acting beta2 agonist (inhaled) asthma/COPD
189075 sodium dependent glucose transport (SGLT-2) inhibitor type 2 diabetes
189254 histamine H3 antagonist dementia
423562 calcium antagonist osteoporosis
427353 beta3 adrenergic agonist overactive bladder
565154 oral pleuromutilin treatment of respiratory tract infections
642444 long-acting beta2 agonist (inhaled) asthma/COPD
656933 interleukin8 receptor antagonist COPD
677116 lipoprotein-associated phospholipase A2 inhibitor atherosclerosis
679769 NK1 antagonist urinary incontinence
705498 vanilloid receptor1 antagonist acute migraine
743921 kinesin spindle protein (KSP) inhibitor cancer
768974 parathyroid hormone (agonist) osteoporosis
813893 factor Xa inhibitor prevention of stroke in atrial fibrillation
825780 DNA antiviral vaccine HIV
842166 non-cannabinoid2 agonist inflammatory pain
856464 melanin-concentrating hormone antagonist obesity
856553 p38 kinase inhibitor rheumatoid arthritis and COPD
876008 corticotrophin releasing factor (CRF1) antagonist depression, anxiety and irritable bowel syndrome (IBS)
Requip XR non-ergot dopamine agonist restless legssyndrome (RLS)
Product submissions
Anumber of significant dossiers were submitted to the regulatory authorities in the major regions during 2004 which are summarised in
the table below.
Product Country/Region Description
Bonviva/Boniva EU and USA monthly oral dosing regimen of ibandronate, a bisphosphonate for the treatment
of osteoporosis
Entereg USA alvimopan, a peripheral mu-opioid receptor antagonist for post-operative ileus
Hepsera Japan adefovir, an RNA-directed DNA polymerase inhibitor for the treatment of hepatitis B
Lexiva Japan fosamprenavir, an HIV aspartyle protease inhibitor for the treatment of HIV
Product approvals
In 2004, approvals were received for a number of new products, as summarised in the table below.
Country/Region
Product (Approval Date) Description
Bonviva EU (February) daily oral dosing regimen of ibandronate, a bisphosphonate for the treatment of
osteoporosis
Flolan PAH Japan (June) epoprostenol, a prostacyclin agonist for the treatment of pulmonary arterial
hypertension
Hepsera Japan (October) adefovir, an RNA-directed DNA polymerase inhibitor for the treatment of hepatitis B
Lexiva Japan (December) fosamprenavir, an HIV aspartyl protease inhibitor for the treatment of HIV
Telzir EU (July) fosamprenavir, for the treatment of HIV
Vesicare USA (November) solifenacin, a muscarinic acetylcholine receptor antagonist for the treatment of
over-active bladder in-licensed from YamanouchiDescription of business GlaxoSmithKline 09
Selecting the bestcandidatemolecules Early in the development process, the metabolicrate and safety
of compounds are evaluated in laboratory animals prior to testing
Centres of Excellence for Drug Discovery
in humans. The testing required in both animals and humans is
There are two fundamental steps in turning a lead compound
mandated and is highly regulated by governmental agencies
into a drug candidate: (i) optimising it for potency, efficacy, safety
(see Animals and research on page13).
and other intrinsic characteristics of the molecule, and (ii)
demonstrating the validity of the therapeutic hypothesis through PCD researchers investigate appropriate dosage forms (e.g. tablet
early clinical trials of the resulting candidate. These steps are or inhaled) and develop formulations to enhance the drug’s
facilitated by rapid, informed decision-making and creative effectiveness and to facilitate the ease of use by the patient.
solutions to the issues that inevitably arise in this phase of Processes and supporting analytical methods for drug synthesis
development. The CEDDs are focused on specific disease areas. and product formulation and delivery are scaled up to meet
They are designed to be nimble and entrepreneurial with the increasing supply requirements,ultimately leading to the technical
range of skills and resources required to drive mid-stage transfer of the processes and methods to manufacturing. The
development projects from lead optimisation through to their key New Product Supply Process, a partnership between R&D and
decision point, demonstration of proof of concept, before major Global Manufacturing and Supply, ensures that a robust product
investments are made to fund large-scale clinical trials. is developed for large-scale commercial manufacturing and launch.
There are seven CEDDs, based in Europe and the USA: Also improving R&D’s productivity are new drugdelivery systems,
predictive technologies, particle engineering and process
• Biopharmaceuticals, centred in Stevenage (UK) innovation. The use of particle engineering and process innovation
• Cardiovascular & Urogenital Diseases, centred in Upper Merion enhances the ability to manufacture consistently high-quality
(USA) products efficiently.
• Metabolic & Viral Diseases, centred in Research Triangle Park
(USA) Worldwide development
• Microbial, Musculoskeletal & Proliferative Diseases, including To provide focus for the development process, all the major
cancer, centred in Upper Providence (USA) functional components of clinical, medical, biomedical data,
• Neurology &Gastrointestinal Diseases, centred in Harlow (UK) regulatory and safety are integrated into a single management
• Psychiatry, centred in Verona (Italy) organisation, Worldwide Development(WWD).
• Respiratory and Inflammation, centred in Stevenage (UK).
During 2004 the creation of the Medicine Development Centres
Each CEDD is responsible for identifying the optimal drug (MDCs),which provide a focus for late-stage development,was
candidate for the desired biological effect and then assessing its completed and embedded in the organisation. The MDCs are
safety and other development characteristics in preclinical screens, responsible for creating value through the delivery of full product
some of which may involve using animals. Once this is achieved, development plans,managing the day-to-day operational activities
the CEDDs are responsible for proving that the compound is safe for the late-stage development portfolio, maximising the global
and efficacious in patients in small-scale clinical trials – the proof commercial potential of products by optimising the delivery of the
of concept decision point. portfolio,and ensuring strong partnerships with the CEDDs and
A decision is then made on whether the information available Global Commercial Strategy (GCS) in order to deliver differentiated
to date justifies the compound’s progression into late-stage drug products of value.
development where the necessary large-scale clinical trials are Throughout the development process, the Regulatory function
conducted to register and commercialise the product. maintains a dialogue with the regulatory agencies in the major
A major investment was announced in September 2004 to markets to ensure that the development programme is best
establish a preclinical research facility for neurodegenerative focused to generate the data that is required for the grant of
diseases in Singapore. The facility, which will have a team of licences. This dialogue also facilitates GlaxoSmithKline’s ability
30to 35 scientists, will focus on new therapies in the treatment to respond efficiently to emerging requirements for safety and
of neurodegenerative illnesses such as Alzheimer’s disease and efficacy data.
Parkinson’s disease as well as schizophrenia.
The R&Dmodel
In 2004, the CEDDs continued to progress significant numbers
of new compounds into both first dosing in humans and initial
Genetics Research Preclinical Global Commercial
evaluation of efficacy in patients. & Discovery Research Development Strategy
Converting candidates to medicines
Preclinical development Centres
Preclinical Development (PCD) participates in a wide range of of
Medicine
activities within the drug development process from optimising Excellence
Development
the selection of compounds for potential development through tics in
rch Centres
launch to the marketplace and enhancement of existing products Drug
by devising more convenient formulations. very Discovery
rch10 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business
Build the best product pipeline in the industry continued
The MDCs are based at the major US and UK sites and are Pharmacogenetic-based information will provide prescribing
therapeutically aligned as follows: physicians with key information to help them select the medicine
and dosemost likely to be of therapeutic benefit to their patients.
• Cardiovascular/Metabolic
• Infectious Diseases including Diseases of theDeveloping
Clinical trialgovernance
World(DDW)
In conducting the clinical trials required to show that medicines are
• Musculoskeletal/Inflammation/Gastrointestinal/Urology
safe and effective, GlaxoSmithKline’s first priority is to protect the
• Neuroscience (Psychiatry/Neurology)
participants and future patients. All clinical trials sponsored by the
• Oncology
Group, irrespective of where they take place, are conducted
• Respiratory.
according to international standards of good clinical practice and
These matrix teams are responsible for maximising the worldwide applicable laws and regulations. The protocols are reviewed by the
development opportunities for each product within their remit so external regulatory agencies in the relevant countries where
that all the information needed to support the registration, safety required and all protocols are considered by an Ethics Review
programmes, pricing and formulary negotiations is available when Committee whose remit covers the site where the study will take
it is required. Commercial input from Global Commercial Strategy place. Safety data is routinely collected throughout development
ensures that at an early stage regional marketing needs are fully programs and is reported to national and regional regulatory
integrated into any development plans. Careful prioritisation across agencies in line with applicable regulations. Additionally it is
all phases of development ensures that a high potential and reviewed internally for any safety signals. The GlaxoSmithKline
integrated portfolio is achieved in the context of patient needs. Global Safety Board is responsible internally for both approving
pivotal studies and investigating any issues related to patient safety
The MDCs collaborate at an early stage with the CEDDs to define
that arise during the development programme. In addition, the
target product profiles for new molecules and with integrated
Clinical Compliancedepartment monitors compliance with Good
technical development and manufacturing functions to ensure
Clinical Practice standards during the conduct, analysis and
rapid, effective launch and delivery of the productto patients.
reporting of clinical trials. Its remit covers GlaxoSmithKline sites
Innovative clinical programmes for lead molecules from the
running trials as well as Clinical Research Organisations (CROs) and
CEDDs are developed using cross-functional project teams. In
investigators performing clinical research on the Group’s behalf.
these programmes, one key measure of productivity is the number
The results of these audits are regularly reviewed by the R&D
of active subjects in clinical trials eachyear. WWD has increased
Global Risk Management Compliance Board and by the Audit
the number of active subjects in clinical trials significantly over
Committee.
thelast three years in order to keep up with the increasing need
to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of its products. During2004 GlaxoSmithKline took another step to make
information from its clinical trials widely and easily available when
The Gold Passdesignation for assets of high value and strategic
itestablished its Clinical Trial Register as a public websiteon which
importance to GlaxoSmithKline,requiring specific organisational
clinical trials dataispublished. Regulatory authorities around the
visibility and urgency to meet patients’ needs, continued through
world will continue to be fully informed of the data that are
2004. Because of the way in which the organisation’s resources
generated so that they can be reassured as to the safety and
are focused on these developments,only a small number of assets
efficacy of GlaxoSmithKline’s products but the Clinical Trial Register
receive Gold Passstatus at any one time, enabling the organisation
will enhance the ability of clinicians to make informed clinical
to be fully aligned. Two products, radafaxine (353162)for
judgements to benefit their patients.
depression and lapatinib (572016) for cancercontinued to progress
andthree further projects received theGold Passstatus during
Global commercial strategy
the year.
The Global Commercial Strategy (GCS) organisation provides
One of these combines 159797, a new long-acting beta-agonist integrated global commercialisation and strategic direction within
and 685698, a new inhaled corticosteroidfor the treatment of R&D,as well as supporting the development of regional marketing
asthma andCOPD.The second is the chemokine receptor campaigns for products emerging from R&D to maximise portfolio
antagonist 873140 for HIV infection and the third project is the value through the full product life cycle. In addition,data are
cyclo-oxygenase 2 inhibitor 406381. generated supporting the added value of products through
assessments of improvements to the quality of patients’ lives and
Development and the role of genetics reductions in the overall costs of healthcare from the use of
GlaxoSmithKline believes that pharmacogenetic research, which GlaxoSmithKline’s products.
is the correlation of genetic data with response to medicine, will
provide valuable information to help improve decision making Extending the use of existing products
during drug development, thus having a positive impact on key Once a product has been launched, it is important to establish
causes of pipeline attrition (i.e.lack of efficacy and adverse drug additional ways in which patients can be helped through
reactions) and clinical trial design. As a result, R&D is collecting investigating whether any otherillnessesmay be treated or by
samples in clinical development studies to identify the development of additional dosage forms which are more
pharmacogenetic information that can help predict a patient’s convenient for patients. Some of these developments reflect
response. Prospectively collected efficacy andsafety studies during feedback from patients and the medical professions; others are
clinical trials have becomestandard elements of development. the result of continuing research into disease and its causes.
This information is intended to define patient groups who are
likely to respond best to treatment, or individuals who are most
likelyto suffer an adverse event, as the compound progresses
through development in the clinic.Description of business GlaxoSmithKline 11
Line extensionsubmissions
Anumber ofproductline extensions were submitted to the regulatory authorities in the major regions during 2004,which are summarised in
the table below.
Product Country/Region Description
Arixtra EU and USA fondaparinux, a synthetic factor Xa inhibitor for thepreventionof deep vein thrombosis
after abdominal surgery
Arixtra EU and USA fondaparinux, for the prevention of deep vein thrombosis in medical conditions
Augmentin ES Japan a syrup formulation of amoxicillin (a beta-lactam antibiotic) and clavulanate (a beta
lactamase inhibitor) for the treatment of otitismedia in children
Boniva USA labelling for an intermittentintravenous dosing regimen of ibandronate, a
bisphosphonatefor the treatment of osteoporosis
Epzicom Japan fixed dose combination of 2 reverse transcriptase inhibitors for the treatment of HIV
infections
Imigran STAT dose Japan thehydroxytryptamine agonist sumatriptan in a self-injection device for the treatment
ofmigraine
Requip Japan an additional strength of ropinirole, a non-ergot dopamine D2 agonist for Parkinson’s
disease
Seretide EU labelling for use as initial maintenance therapy in asthma for the combination of
salmeterol, a long-acting beta-blocker, and fluticasone, a corticosteroid
Seretide Diskus Japan use in the treatment of asthma and COPD for the combination of salmeterol and
fluticasone in a dry powder inhaler
Serevent EU a chlorofluorocarbon-free formulation of the pressurised aerosol containing salmeterol
for the treatment of asthma andCOPD
Ventolin USA a chlorofluorocarbon-free formulation of salbutamol, a short-acting beta agonist in a
pressurised aerosol with a dose counter
Wellbutrin XL USA indication for the treatment of seasonal affective disorder with the
dopamine/noradrenaline re-uptake inhibitor bupropion
Zefix Japan labelling for use of lamivudine, a reverse transcriptase inhibitor for the treatment of
liver cirrhosis
Ziagen QD Japan reverse transcriptase inhibitor abacavir for the treatment of HIV
Zovirax Japan a cream formulation of the DNA polymerase inhibitor aciclovir for use in the treatment
of herpes simplex infections
Line extension approvals
In 2004 approvals were received for a number of significant new indications and formulations for existing products, which are summarised
in the table below.
Product Country/Region Description
(Approval date)
Advair Diskus USA (April) labelling for paediatric twice-daily dosing in asthma of the combination of salmeterol,
a long-acting beta-blocker, and fluticasone, a corticosteroid in a dry powder device
Arixtra USA (June) fondaparinux, a synthetic factor Xa inhibitor for thetreatmentof deep vein
EU(November) thrombosis
Flovent USA (May) a chlorofluorocarbon-free formulation of the pressurised aerosol with a dose counter
containing fluticasone, a corticosteroidfor treating asthma
Kivexa/Epzicom USA(August) afixed dose combination oftworeverse transcriptase inhibitors for the treatment of
EU (December) HIVinfections
Japan (December)
Paxil CR USA (January) controlled release formulation of paroxetine, a selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitor
for intermittent treatment of pre-menstrual dysphoric disorder
Requip EU (June) ropinirole, a non-ergot dopamine D2 agonist for restless legs syndrome
Seretide EU (January) labelling for paediatric twice-daily dosing of the combination of salmeterol, a long-
acting beta-blocker, and fluticasone, a corticosteroid in a pressurised aerosolfor the
treatment of asthma
Seretide EU (March) a dose counter formulation of salmeterol for the treatment of asthma and COPD
Serevent Diskus Japan (February) a dry powder formulation of salmeterol for the treatment of asthma and COPD
Zefix Japan (October) labelling for use of lamivudine, a reverse transcriptase inhibitor in combination with
Hepserafor the treatment of hepatitis B
Ziagen QD Japan (December) the reverse transcriptase inhibitor abacavir for the treatment of HIV.12 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business
Build the best product pipeline in the industry continued
Examples of lifecycle management include the new indicationfor Collaborative ADI partnerships from earlier are: Cytokinetics Inc.
Seretide/Advairmaking this important asthma medicine available (oncology: mitotic kinesin inhibitors), Shionogi & Co., (HIV and
for use in children between 4–11 years and Kivexa/Epzicom, neurology programmes; potential broad-based discovery
a single tablet combining the active molecules used in two collaboration in antimicrobials, oncology, metabolic and neurology),
successful treatments for HIV in order to simplify dosing for Tanabe Seiyaku Co. Ltd. (broad-based: neurology, GI, urology,
patients. Line extensions form a significant part of the overall diabetes, respiratory) , Exelixis Inc. (oncology, inflammation),
portfolio; recent examples such as Augmentin ES/XR, Seroxat/Paxil Theravance Inc. (asthma), Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. (broad based)
CRand Wellbutrin XL, achieved £1,038million sales in 2004. and NeuroSearch (central nervous system). ADI partnerships have
also been established with three academic institutions to
A number ofproduct lineextensions were submitted to the
supplement internal target validation activities and provide better
regulatory authorities in the major regions during 2004. These
access to tissue samples and patient populations for clinical studies.
submissions are summarised on page11.
GlaxoSmithKline has one academic ADI partner in the UK and two
In 2004 approvals were received for a number of significant in the USA. These are long term collaborative relationships to
new indications and formulations for existing products. These which the Group has committed funding for two years, with
approvals are summarised on page8. option to renew for an additional three years.
Managing the portfolio In-licensing and research collaborations
The resources available to exploit opportunities arising from within GlaxoSmithKline has continued to identify compounds that would
the Group will always be limited. Improving productivity progresses enhance the portfolio and to create innovative collaborations to
more compounds into later phases of development, consequently ensure that the Group is regarded as the partner of choice for both
putting demands on R&Dresources. It is therefore that much more large and small companies.
important to look objectively at the portfolio and ensure that the
The subjects of in-licensing or co-marketing / co-promotion
progress of assets is prosecuted as efficiently as possible. The key
agreements in 2004 were:
projects reaching significant milestones are reviewed each month
by the Product Management Board (PMB),which is responsible for • AlbugonTM, a GLP-1 albumin fusion protein in pre-clinical
determining whether an individual asset has achieved the pre-set development for type 2 diabetes fromHuman Genome Sciences
criteria to pass into the next phase of development. This body • Exclusive marketing of Integrilinin Europe, a glycoprotein (GP)
is led jointly by the chairman of R&D and thepresident of llb-llla inhibitor currently used to treat patients with unstable
Pharmaceutical Operations and includes thepresidents of the angina and non-ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction,
Regions and Global Manufacturing and Supply, in addition to with Millennium Pharmaceuticals Inc.
the heads of the major functions within R&D. • A broad alliance to develop and commercialise novel medicines
across a variety of therapeutic areas,including bacterial
The PMB also actively manages the overall portfolio through the
infection, respiratory, urinary incontinenceand gastrointestinal
annual portfolio review exercise. This thorough and careful
with Theravance Inc.
assessment of all of the assets in Drug Discovery and Worldwide
Development leads to a prioritisation of projects on the basis not In addition, GlaxoSmithKline has already entered into a number of
only of commercial value, but also of unmet medical need. This agreements with third parties to co-develop and then co-market
also allows the identification of alternative approaches to balance certain compounds. These arrangements range from milestone
the Group’s assets most efficiently, including the use of external payments to third parties to acquire rights to their intellectual
partners in development and out-licensing products that no longer property, to joint ventures to develop and commercialise specified
fit within the strategic portfolio. compounds. Under many of these agreements the Group has
obligations to make payments in the future if specified milestones
Following the annual portfolio prioritisation reviews, the CEDDs are
are achieved. These financial commitments are summarised in
able to select which programmes to pursue internally.Otherassets
Note26to the Financial statements, ‘Commitments’.
may be developed through a novel partnership scheme known as
the AlternativeDiscovery Initiative (ADI). GlaxoSmithKline and its
Discontinuations
partners can share risk and reward through various business
All R&D carries a risk of failure commensurate with the extension
arrangements.
of scientific knowledge of a compound and its effects. Not all lead
The ADI partnerships with biotechnology companies and other compounds that are identified to possess positive activity against a
pharmaceutical companies to explore different approaches to drug validated target will prove to be safe enough to introduce to
discovery that were formed in recent years continue to provide humans or feasible to manufacture on a commercial scale.
increased opportunities to exploit the productivity from our new GlaxoSmithKline R&D endeavours to ensure that as far as possible
technologies. In 2004, additional focus was placed on ADIs by these risks are ameliorated by extensive predictive testing as early
adding to the Tanabe collaboration and forming new partnerships as possible in the development process. Despite these efforts, the
with NiKem Research (central nervous system), Diversa Corp. ultimate test for a product remains the point at which it is
(anti-infectives), Toyama Chemical Co Ltd (antibacterials)and administered to large numbers of patients with the disease.
Meiji Seika Kaisha Ltd.
Late-stage projects terminated during 2004 in Phase II include
493838 for neuropathic pain,vestipitant (597599)for dyspepsia,
depression and anxiety, piboserod for atrial fibrillation and
talnetant for over-active bladder.Description of business GlaxoSmithKline 13
Research and development - vaccines The Group currently has 14 R&D projects and programmes
of relevance to the developing world, seven of which are aimed
All vaccines R&D is conducted at GlaxoSmithKline’s biologicals
at producing vaccines and medicines for diseases that
centre in Rixensart, Belgium, including other related activities such
disproportionately affect developing countries.
as clinical development, regulatory strategy, commercial strategy,
scaling up, packaging and all support functions and primary The Group also works in close collaboration with external partners
production of all vaccineswith the exception ofinfluenza vaccine, worldwide in the search for new treatments for diseases of the
which isproduced atthe Group’sstate-of-the-art facility in developing world. Partnerships here are key in order to maximise
Germany. Over 1,000 scientists are employed who are devoted to the combined expertise and talent of the pharmaceutical industry
discovering new vaccines and developing more cost-effective and and academia in discovering and developing new medicines for
convenient combination vaccines to prevent infections that cause the developing world.
serious medical problems worldwide. Discovery work involves many
Public/private partnerships remain essential to fund research where
collaborators in academia and thebiotech industry worldwide and
there is no commercially viable market for a potential product. The
allows identification of new vaccine candidates which are then
Group continues to work closely with many Governments,
expressed in yeast, bacteria or mammalian cells and purified to a
United Nations’ agencies and other global funding bodies in this
very high level.
area. For example, in 2004,GlaxoSmithKline’s pyridone project
This is followed by formulation of the vaccine, which involves was awarded the Medicines for Malaria Venture “Project of the
mixing antigens with selected novel proprietaryadjuvants,which Year” for its rapid and successful progress in finding a drug
are designed to stimulate a good and appropriate immune candidate. The newly selected candidate has since moved into
response in humans. The next step is to evaluate safety and pre-clinical development.
efficacy of the candidate vaccine,which may involve using animals.
Animals and research
Once preclinical proof of concept has been established, the
candidate vaccine is then tested in clinical trials in healthy For ethical, regulatory and scientific reasons, research using animals
individuals to evaluate safety and how effective the vaccine is in remains a small but vital part of research and development of new
inducing an immune response to protect the body from disease medicines and vaccines. GlaxoSmithKline only uses animals where
encountered later in a natural setting. Large-scale field trials in there is no alternative and only in the numbers required for each
healthy individuals follow to establish safety and efficacy in a test. The Group strives to exceed regulatory standards in the care
cross section of the population. The results obtained during and use of the animals it uses and undergoes internal and external
clinical trials and the development of a quality production process review to assure these standards.
and facilities are then combined into a regulatory file which is
The vast majority oftheexperimental methods do not use animals
submitted to the authorities in the various countries where the
and GlaxoSmithKline is actively engaged in research to develop and
vaccine is to be made available.
validate more tests that either avoid the use of animals in research
In 2004 biologicals, which has a long track record of developing or reduce the numbers needed. When animals are used in research
and making vaccines available to the developing world at unnecessary pain or suffering is scrupulously avoided.
preferential prices, pioneered a new “South First” vaccine strategy
GlaxoSmithKline understands that use of animals for research
for its new rotavirus vaccine. This involved developing a totally
purposes commands a high level of public interest. The
unique and novel clinical and regulatory strategy to ensure this
GlaxoSmithKline Public Policy Position ‘The care and ethical use
vaccine was first registered and made available to those areas of
of animals in research’, and further information and reports, are
the world where the medicalneed is greatest.
available on the website, www.gsk.com or from Secretariat.
Recently, Cervarix, a vaccine for the prevention of cervical cancer
received Gold Passstatus. See page 10 for further details of the
Gold Passprogramme.
Diseases of the developing world
Continued investment in research into diseases that affect the
developing world is essential if there is to be a long-term
improvement in the healthcare of people who live in these regions;
this will include the resolution of challenges such as drug resistance
and poor patient compliance. As part of GlaxoSmithKline’s
response to this challenge the Microbial, Musculoskeletal &
Proliferative Diseases CEDD has responsibility for a drug discovery
unit, dedicated to finding new medicines for these diseases, based
at Tres Cantos, Spain. The work undertaken in Tres Cantos focuses
on malaria and tuberculosis which, together with work elsewhere
in the Group on HIV/AIDS and vaccines, means GlaxoSmithKline
is addressing the prevention and treatment of all three of the
World Health Organization’s (WHO) top priority diseases.14 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business
Build the best product pipeline in the industry continued
GlaxoSmithKline’spipeline
The chartbelowshows GlaxoSmithKline’s new chemical entities (NCE), product line extensions (PLE)and vaccine pipeline evolution for
projects in the clinic since 2001. It shows increased levels of productivity particularly inPhase II. Thisis expected tolead to an increasein
Phase III and registrations in the coming years.
Phase I NCEs with multiple indications are only counted once.NCEs in later phases are counted by each indication.
160
140
26% of pipeline 11
120 118
39% of pipeline
12 Late Stage 43
Growth
19
80
25
34
NCE Phase III/registration
40 41 32 NCE Phase II
NCE Phase I
PLEs
21 20
Vaccines
0
2001 2004
Product development pipeline
The product development pipeline, set outon the following three pagesshows considerable breadth and depth.At the end of February
2005,GlaxoSmithKline had195pharmaceutical and vaccine projects in development, of which140are in the cliniccomprising 88 new
chemical entities, 32 product line extensions and 20 vaccines. The content of the drug development portfolio will change over time as new
compounds progress from discovery to development and from development to the market. Owing to the nature of the drug development
process,many of thesecompounds, especially those in early stages of investigation,maybe terminated as they progress through
development. For competitive reasons, new projects in pre-clinical development have not been disclosed and some project types may not
have been identified.
Key
(v) Vaccine Phase I Evaluation of clinical pharmacology, usually conducted
(p) Pharmaccine in volunteers
* Compounds in Shionogi-GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Phase II Determination of dose and initial evaluation of
LLC joint venture efficacy, conducted in a small number of patients
† In-license or other alliance relationship with third party Phase III Large comparative study (compound versus placebo
S Date of first submission and/or established treatment) in patients to
A Date of firstregulatory approval (for MAA, this is the first establish clinical benefit and safety
EU approval letter)
AL Approvable letter
MAA Marketing authorisation application (Europe)
NDA New drug application (USA)Description of business GlaxoSmithKline 15
Estimated filing dates
Compound/Product Type Indication Phase MAA NDA
Cardiovascular, Metabolic & Urogenital
659032† Lp-PLA2 inhibitor atherosclerosis I
677116† Lp-PLA2 inhibitor atherosclerosis I
681323 p38 kinase inhibitor atherosclerosis (also rheumatoid arthritis & COPD) I
813893 factor Xa inhibitor prevention of stroke in atrial fibrillation I
480848† Lp-PLA2 inhibitor atherosclerosis II
493838 adenosine A1A agonist dyslipidaemia II
501516† PPAR delta agonist dyslipidaemia II
odiparcil† indirect thrombin inhibitor prevention of thrombotic complications of II
cardiovascular disease& deep vein thrombosis (DVT)
prophylaxis
Arixtra synthetic factor Xa inhibitor treatment of acute coronary syndrome III 2006 2006
Coreg CR† beta blocker hypertension & congestive heart failure – once daily III N/A 2005
Noratak† recombinantB-type natriuretic peptide acute heart failure lll 2007 N/A
Arixtra synthetic factor Xa inhibitor prevention ofDVT– abdominal surgery Submitted S:Jul04 S:Jul04
Arixtra synthetic factor Xa inhibitor prevention ofDVT– medical conditions Approved A:Jan05 S:Feb04
Arixtra synthetic factor Xa inhibitor treatment ofDVT Approved A:Nov04 A:Jun04
Metabolicprojects
189075† sodium dependent glucose transport type 2 diabetes I
(SGLT2)inhibitor
856464 melanin concentrating hormone antagonist obesity I
677954 PPAR pan agonist type 2 diabetes II
823093 DPP IV inhibitor type 2 diabetes II
869682† SGLT2inhibitor type 2 diabetes II
solabegron (427353) beta3 adrenergic agonist type 2 diabetes (also over-active bladder) II
Avandamet XR PPAR gamma agonist plus metformin type 2 diabetes – extended release III 2005
Avandaryl† PPAR gamma agonist plus sulphonylurea type 2 diabetes – fixed dose combination Approvable 2005 AL:Aug04
Infectious Diseases
565154 oral pleuromutilin treatment of respiratory tract infections I
270773† phospholipid anti-endotoxin emulsion sepsis II
chlorproguanil,dapsone + antifolate + artemisinin treatment of uncomplicated malaria II 2007 N/A
artesunate (CDA)†
275833 topical pleuromutilin bacterial skin infections III 2006 2005
sitamaquine 8-aminoquinoline treatment of visceral leishmaniasis III N/A
Etaquine† 8-aminoquinoline malaria prophylaxis (adults) III TBD 2007
Anti-virals
825780† DNA antiviral vaccine HIV infections I
640385† aspartyl protease inhibitor HIV infections II
695634 non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor HIV infections II 2007 2007
873140† CCR5 antagonist HIV infections II 2007 2007
Epzicom/Kivexa† reverse transcriptase inhibitor HIV infections – combination tablet Approved A:Dec04 A:Aug04
Musculoskeletal, Inflammation, Gastrointestinal &Urology
423557† calcium antagonist osteoporosis I
423562† calcium antagonist osteoporosis I
462795† cathepsin K inhibitor osteoporosis & osteoarthritis I
679769 NKI antagonist urinary incontinence (UI)(also depression & anxiety,
chemotherapy induced & postoperative nausea
& vomiting) I
681323 p38 kinase inhibitor rheumatoid arthritis (also atherosclerosis & COPD) I
768974† parathyroid hormone agonist osteoporosis I
856553 p38 kinase inhibitor (oral) rheumatoid arthritis (also COPD) I
876008† corticotrophin releasing factor (CRFI) antagonist irritablebowelsyndrome (IBS) also depression & anxiety I
Entereg† peripheral mu-opioid antagonist IBS I
solabegron (427353) beta3 adrenergic agonist over-active bladder (also type 2 diabetes) I 2007 2007
270384 endothelial cell adhesion molecule inhibitor inflammatory bowel disease II
274150 selective iNOS inhibitor rheumatoid arthritis(also migraine, asthma) II
683699† dual alpha4 integrin antagonist (VLA4) inflammatory bowel disease (also multiple sclerosis) II
talnetant NK3 antagonist IBS (also schizophrenia) II 2007 2007
Avandia PPAR gamma agonist rheumatoid arthritis II
Entereg† peripheral mu-opioid antagonist chronic opiate induced bowel dysfunction & constipation II 2007 2007
mepolizumab anti-IL5 monoclonal antibody hypereosinophillic syndrome (also asthma & eosinophilic
esophagitis) III 2006 2006
Avandia PPAR gamma agonist psoriasis III
Avodart + alpha blocker 5-alpha reductase inhibitor plus alpha blocker benign prostatic hyperplasia – fixed dose combination III 2007 2007
Avodart 5-alpha reductase inhibitor reduction in the risk of prostate cancer III
Boniva/Bonviva bisphosphonate treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis Submitted 2005 S:Dec04
– intermittent i.v. dosing
Boniva/Bonviva bisphosphonate treatment & prevention of postmenopausal osteoporosis Submitted S:Sep04 S:May04
– monthly oral dosing
Entereg† peripheral mu-opioid antagonist post operative ileus Submitted 2005 S:Jun04
Vesicare† muscarinic antagonist overactive bladder Approved N/A A:Nov0416 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business
Build the best product pipeline in the industry continued
Estimated filing dates
Compound/Product Type Indication Phase MAA NDA
Neurosciences
189254 Histamine H3 antagonist dementia I
234551* endothelin A antagonist stroke I
274150 selective iNOS inhibitor migraine (alsorheumatoid arthritis, asthma) I
406725 gap junction blocker migraine, epilepsy & neuropathic pain I 2007 2007
644784 dual acting COX-2 inhibitor acute & chronic pain conditions including neuropathic I
pain (also schizophrenia)
705498 vanilloid 1 antagonist acute migraine I
737004* endothelin A antagonist stroke I
742457 5HT6 antagonist schizophrenia & dementia I
773812 mixed 5HT/dopaminergic antagonist schizophrenia I
823296 NK1 antagonist depression & anxiety I
842166 non-cannabinoid CB2 agonist inflammatory pain I
876008† corticotrophin releasing factor (CRF1) antagonistdepression & anxiety(also IBS) I
radafaxine (353162) noradrenaline/dopamine re-uptake inhibitor fibromyalgia & neuropathic pain I
Requip XR non-ergot dopamine agonist restless legssyndrome (RLS) I 2006 2006
radafaxine (353162) noradrenaline/dopamine re-uptake inhibitor depression II 2007
radafaxine (353162) noradrenaline/dopamine re-uptake inhibitor RLS II
372475 (NS2359)† triple (5HT/noradrenaline/dopamine) re-uptake depression II
inhibitor
406381 dual acting COX-2 inhibitor acute& chronic pain & migraine II TBD TBD
468816 glycine antagonist smoking cessation II
re-uptake inhibitor
679769 NK1 antagonist depression & anxiety (also chemotherapy induced II
& postoperative nausea & vomitingand UI)
683699† dual alpha4 integrin antagonist (VLA4) multiple sclerosis (also inflammatory bowel disease) II
vestipitant (597599)
+ paroxetine NK1 antagonist + selective serotonin depression & anxiety II
talnetant NK3 antagonist schizophrenia (also IBS) II
Avandia PPAR gamma agonist Alzheimer's disease II
Lamictal sodium channel inhibitor bipolar disorder – acute treatment III N/A 2006
LamictalXR sodium channel inhibitor neuropathic pain (epilepsy, NDA only) once daily III 2006 2006
Lamictal XR sodium channel inhibitor schizophrenia III 2007
Requip CR† non-ergot dopamine agonist Parkinson’s disease – once daily controlled release III 2005 2005
formulation
Trexima 5HT1 agonist + naproxen migraine – fixed dose combination III N/A 2005
Wellbutrin XL† noradrenaline/dopamine re-uptake inhibitor seasonal affective disorder Submitted S:Dec04
Requip non-ergot dopamine agonist RLS Approved A:Jun04 A:Dec03
Wellbutrin XL† noradrenaline/dopamine re-uptake inhibitor depression Approved 2006 A:Aug03
Oncology
743921† kinesin spindle protein (KSP) inhibitor cancer I
elacridar oral bioenhancer cancer I
497115† thrombopoietin agonist thrombocytopaenia II 2006 2006
485232† recombinant human IL18 immunomodulator immunologically-sensitive cancers (melanoma & renal cell)II 2007 2007
679769 NK1 antagonist chemotherapy induced & postoperative nausea & II
vomiting (also depression & anxietyandUI)
715992† kinesin spindle protein (KSP) inhibitor non small cell lung cancer & other tumours II
786034 vascular endothelial growth factor 2 solid tumours II
tyrosine kinase inhibitor
vestipitant (597599) NK1 antagonist postoperative nausea & vomiting (also chemotherapy II 2006 2006
induced nausea & vomiting)
ethynylcytidine† selective RNA polymerase inhibitor solid tumours II
lapatinib ErbB-2 and EGFR dual kinase inhibitor breast cancer (also renal, lung, bladder, gastric, III 2006 2005
head & neck cancers)
Hycamtin topo-isomerase I inhibitor ovarian cancer first line therapy III 2006 2006
Hycamtin topo-isomerase I inhibitor small cell lung cancer second line therapy III 2006 2006
– oral formulation
nelarabine guanine arabinoside prodrug acute lymphoblastic leukaemia & lymphomas III 2005 2005
Hycamtin topo-isomerase I inhibitor small cell lung cancer second line therapy Approved 2005 A:Nov98Description of business GlaxoSmithKline 17
Estimated filing dates
Compound/Product Type Indication Phase MAA NDA
Respiratory
159802† long acting beta2 agonist asthma & chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) I
642444† long acting beta2 agonist asthma & COPD I
656933 IL8 antagonist COPD I
681323 p38 kinase inhibitor (oral) COPD (also rheumatoid arthritis & atherosclerosis) I
856553 p38 kinase inhibitor (oral) COPD (also rheumatoid arthritis) I
159797† long acting beta2 agonist COPD, also COPD & asthma in combination with II
a glucocorticoid agonist
202405 muscarinic antagonist COPD II
274150 selective iNOS inhibitor (oral) asthma,(also migraine &rheumatoid arthritis) II
597901† long acting beta2 agonist COPD, also COPD & asthma in combination with II
a glucocorticoid agonist
678007† long acting beta2 agonist COPD, also COPD & asthma in combination with II
a glucocorticoid agonist
685698 glucocorticoid agonist asthma & COPD in combination with a long acting II
beta2 agonist (also allergic rhinitis)
766994 chemokine 3 (CCR3) antagonist (oral) asthma & allergic rhinitis ll
799943 glucocorticoid agonist asthma & COPD in combination with a long acting II
beta2 agonist
842470† PDE IV inhibitor (inhaled) COPD II
mepolizumab anti-IL5 monoclonal antibody asthma (also hypereosinophillic syndromeand II
eosinophilic esophagitis)
Avamys/Allermist(685698)glucocorticoid agonist allergic rhinitis III 2006 2006
Seretide/Advair beta2 agonist/inhaled corticosteroid COPD – mortality claim III 2006 2006
Seretide beta2 agonist/inhaled corticosteroid asthma – initial maintenance therapy Submitted S:Aug04 N/A
Serevent beta2 agonist asthma & COPD – non-CFC inhaler Submitted S:Apr04 N/A
Ariflo PDE IV inhibitor (oral) COPD Approvable AL:Oct03
Seretide/Advair beta2 agonist/inhaled corticosteroid asthma – non-CFC inhaler Approved A:Jun00 AL:Oct01
& Oct02
Hepatitis Vaccines
Hepatitis E recombinant hepatitis E prophylaxis II
FendrixExtra Strength recombinant extra strength hepatitis B prophylaxis (pre-haemodialysis Approved A:Nov04 A:Feb05
Hepatitis B and haemodialysis patients)
Paediatric Vaccines
Rotarix live attenuated – oral rotavirus prophylaxis lll 2005
Streptorix conjugated S. pneumoniae disease prophylaxis for children III 2007 2007
N. meningitidis conjugated meningitis prophylaxis Submitted S:2005
combinations
Priorix-Tetra live attenuated measles, mumps, rubella and varicella prophylaxis Submitted S:Apr04
Other Vaccines
HIV recombinant HIV prophylaxis I
fflu improved subunit influenza prophylaxis I
S. pneumoniae elderly recombinant S. pneumoniae disease prophylaxis I
VaricellaZoster recombinant Varicella Zoster prevention I
Dengue fever attenuated tetravalent vaccine prophylactic use Il
Epstein-Barr virus recombinant EBV prophylaxis II
Mosquirix recombinant malaria prophylaxis II
Staphylococcal antibodies†monoclonal antibody prevention of staphylococcal infections II
Cervarix recombinant prophylaxis of human papillomavirus (HPV) infections IIl 2006
Simplirix recombinant genital herpes prophylaxis III
Boostrix subunit adolescent/adult booster for diphtheria, tetanus and Approved A:Oct00 S:Jun04
pertussis
Pharmaccines
breast cancer therapeutic recombinant treatment of breast cancer I
(Her 2 Neu)
P501 recombinant treatment of prostate cancer l
mage 3 (249553) recombinant treatment of lung cancer/melanoma II18 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business
Achieve commercial and operational excellence
GlaxoSmithKline undertakes a range of activities to maximise the GlaxoSmithKline also complies with relevant industry codes of
commercial potential of its intellectual property,by introducing practice. Training is provided for all employees whose position
innovative products into as many markets as possible, accelerating requires an understanding of Group marketing requirements,
the process to bring new products to market, increasing brand particularly sales representatives. There is a monitoring process
recognitionand ensuring that patients have access to new for marketing activities which includes Group internal audit and
medicines. Both the pharmaceutical and consumer healthcare independent reviews and approvals.
businessesfocus on ways to improve existing performance through
commercial and operational excellenceinitiatives. Patient advocacy
The Patientadvocacy initiative has demonstrated significant
Worldwide sales force excellence progress since its inception in 2002. The rationale for the strategy
GlaxoSmithKline sales force has always ranked high on surveys centres on both enhancing access for the Group’smedicines in
with healthcare professionals.Worldwidesalesforceexcellence markets where public and private payers influence availability as
(WSFE) aims to improve customer satisfaction even further. well as improving the reputation as a patient-centric group.
The time available for physicians to learn about new medicines Initially launched as a USprogramme, it has now been expanded
and clinical studies is precious. Through the WSFE initiative, sales to be a critical initiative in strategic plans throughout the world.
representatives strengthen product knowledge and learn to deliver This year’s Patient Advocacy Leaders Summit in Philadelphiawas
patient-specific treatment options more efficiently and more attended by over four hundred people representing twentythree
effectively. Research shows that a sales visit is highly effective when countries from six continents. Additionally,Patient Advocacy teams
a representative engages the physician in dialogue around patient in both the US and Europe have shared best practices and
types and supports the message with visual aids that illustrate established processesto optimise interactionwith patientgroups.
clinical results.
European Centres of Excellence
In 2004, the Group introduced a single global sales call model that
Pharmaceuticals Europehas introduced a new business model to
focuses on treating the patient through a dialogue about ”when“
enhanceitsability to compete in an increasingly challenging
a GlaxoSmithKline medicine is appropriate, “why” it is effective
environment. The model has established Centres of Excellence for
and “how” toadminister itsafely. By the end of the year, all field
key therapeutic areas, such as respiratory and metabolic and for
people in the Group’s key markets had been trained in the new
business capabilities such ascommercial excellence and portfolio
“When? Why? How?” approach.
management. These centres developpan-European strategies
The entire sales organisation is immersed in WSFE to bring about which are implemented consistently across the region. The model
a cultural change that raises ethical standards and helps build is driving the swift adoption of brand strategies and campaigns,
long-term, trusting relationships with the healthcare community. while reducing costs and duplication. The new model also focuses
on ensuring that new assets may be launched in Europe with the
Marketing excellence optimal data to support their approval and reimbursement.
Goals of the global Marketingexcellence initiative are first, to
help undiagnosed patients seek a physician’s help and, second, Procurement
to ensure they receive appropriate treatment. For example, in the GlaxoSmithKline annually spends around £5 billion on non-
UK, officials estimate that 2.4 million people suffer from type 2 production related third party purchases; worldwide this covers
diabetes, yet about 25 per cent of them remain undiagnosed, all areas including media, travel, R&D, IT and marketing. These
and of those diagnosed, another 25 per cent remain untreated. purchases are managed by procurement, on behalf of their internal
Of those treated, a significant number is under-treated in some customersandfocuson delivering the best value to the Group.
way – that is, these patients do not achieve the level of health This approach covers assurance of supply, service, quality, cost
that the treatments could provide under optimal circumstances. andinnovation. Theprocess has delivered savings in excess of
GlaxoSmithKline’s marketing initiative implements programmes to £200 million per year since the merger.
overcome the barriers to proper diagnosis and treatment. As these
programmes begin to show effects, the societal costs of disease Improving processes
will decrease. To the extent that a GlaxoSmithKline product is The Group has ongoing improvements in processesto increase
chosen for patients’ treatment, theGroup will benefit as well. the quality of goods and services, improve speed and reliability
of performance and deliver savings. The procurement function
GlaxoSmithKline has been recognised by the industry for its
initiates rigorous supplier selection and monitoring processes across
excellence in marketing and has received a variety of awards
all key areas of expenditureand compliance with the use of
acknowledging the success of its campaigns. Each award
preferred suppliers is high. In 2004, operational excellence experts
programme is independently judged by experts.
from GlobalManufacturing andSupply supported a number of
GlaxoSmithKline is committed to marketing that is ethical, other businesses and functionsby helpingtosolve problems in a
responsible and patient-centred. There is a corporate policy rigorous, controlled and structured wayand to focus efficiently
governing marketing activities that applies to all employees, on those activities adding the greatest value to GlaxoSmithKline.
suppliers,contractors and agents. This policy requires that all
marketing and promotional activities are based on valid scientific Project Future
evidence, and comply with applicable laws and regulations. Each In 2003, Project Future, a fundamental review of the Consumer
business sector has policies that include additional requirements Healthcare business modelto increase competitiveness and,
and guidance. thereby, sales growth was undertaken. This model was
implemented in 2004. Further details are given on page23.Description of business GlaxoSmithKline 19
Improve access to medicines
Access to healthcare in the developing world Voluntarylicences
During 2004, GlaxoSmithKline grantedfivevoluntarylicencesto
Access to healthcare in developing countries remains a major
African generics companies for the manufacture and sale of ARVs
challenge to the global community. The problem, which is rooted
to both the public and private sectors in sub-Saharan Africa. These
in povertyand a lack of political will,continues to demand a
licencesbuild upon the Group’s agreement with Aspen
significant mobilisation of resources and a true spirit of partnership.
Pharmacare,sub-Saharan Africa’s largest generic company,first
It must be tackled as a shared responsibility by all sectors of global
signed in September 2001, and demonstrate GlaxoSmithKline’s
society. The Group does not have the mandate, expertise or
ongoing commitment to increasing access to essential medicines
resources to address the underlying problems that exist. However,
through innovative solutions.
GlaxoSmithKline continues to play a vital role, through its
commitment to R&D into diseases particularly prevalent in the
Looking ahead
developing world, through its programme of preferential pricing
GlaxoSmithKline will continue to build on its products, pricing and
for its anti-retrovirals (ARVs), anti-malarials and vaccines, and
partnership commitments to help improve healthcare in the
through its willingness to seek innovative solutions, such as
developing world. However, a significant increase in funding from
voluntary licencing arrangements.
the global community is still needed. It is also important to
maintain incentives for R&D through protection of intellectual
Preferential pricing arrangements
property. There is, for example, neither a cure nor a vaccine for
GlaxoSmithKline has offered its vaccines to key organisations for
HIV/AIDS.
vaccination programmes in developing countries at preferential
prices for over 20 years. The Group also sets a single, sustainable, While much was achieved in 2004, sustainable progress will only
not-for-profit price for each of its ARVs and anti-malarials to a wide occur if the significant barriers that stand in the way of better
range of customers in Least Developed Countries (UNdefinition) access to healthcare are tackled as a shared responsibility by all
and sub-Saharan Africa, as well as projects fully-funded by the sectors of global society – governments, international agencies,
Global Fund to Fight AIDS, TB, and Malariaand the US President’s charities, academic institutions, the pharmaceutical industry and
Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief. This means that the not-for-profit others.
prices are offered in a total of 100 countries.
Access to healthcare in the developed world
GlaxoSmithKline is committed to contributing to health
improvements in a sustainable manner. The prices for its ARVs and GlaxoSmithKline plays an active role in improving the healthcare
anti-malarials are therefore set at levels at which no profit is made, of people who have limited access to medicines. During 2004, the
but direct costs are covered, allowing supply to be sustained for Group’s Bridges to Access and Commitment to Access programmes
as long as required. The Group has undertaken to reduce these provided over $372 million worth of medicines to qualifying low-
prices whenever possible. Although two reductions were income US residents. For Medicare beneficiaries, there is the
announced in 2003, no price reductions were possible in 2004. GlaxoSmithKline Orange Cardprogramme which offers qualifying
US senior citizens 20 to 40 per cent discounts off their outpatient
Preferential pricing is improving access. The Group hassigned over
GlaxoSmithKline medicines. More than 175,000 individuals have
200agreements, covering57of the world’s poorest countries, to
signed up for the programme. The Group is committed to
supply ARVs at preferential prices. Customers include governments,
maintaining this programme until a Medicare prescription benefit
non-governmental organisations (NGOs), hospitals, academic
is in place in 2006.
institutions and private employers.
The Group is also a founding member of Together Rx,a multi-
The offer of not-for-profit prices requires a sustainable framework,
company card programme through which seven major participating
combining the Group’s commitment to preferential pricing with
pharmaceutical companies offer savings in the USA on more than
commitments from governments of the developed world to avoid
155 widely prescribed medicines. Together Rxparticipants can save
price referencing against preferentially priced medicines and to
up to 40 per cent off the usual amount for their prescriptions.
help prevent product diversion.GlaxoSmithKline has taken steps to
By the end of 2004 over 1.4 million people had joined this
minimise the threat of diversion and is now able to supply over 50
programme.
countries with Combivir, Epivir and Trizivirin special access packs.
Similar efforts are underway to secure widespread regulatory In addition, GlaxoSmithKline and nine other pharmaceutical
approval for Retrovirand Epivir Syrupaccess packs and to register companies created Together Rx Access,a savings programme for
differentiated red (as opposed to traditional white) Combivirand qualified individuals in the USA who lack prescription drug
Epivirtablets across a number of International markets. During coverage. Through Together Rx Access, the participating companies
2004, the Group successfully registered nine of itsARVsunder offer savings of about 25 to 40 per cent off the usual pharmacy
the European Union’s Anti-Diversion Regulation. It also continued cost on over 275 medicines.
to encourage other countries to take the necessary steps to
ensure the introductionand strict enforcement ofappropriate
anti-diversion measures.20 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business
Be the best place for the best people to do their best work
GlaxoSmithKline people Individuals are developed for global leadership positions through
targeted job moves in different businesses and geographies. A
GlaxoSmithKline is committed to creating the best place for the
variety of programmesare offered internally to develop leaders
best people to do their best work.
and managers who innovate, inspire and execute well.
Performance and reward
Communication and involvement
Reward philosophy and programme development underscore
A senior management conference, held in February 2004, allowed
GlaxoSmithKline’s commitment to a performance culture.
more than 1,000 delegates to be briefed directly by members of
Performance based pay,share awards,share options and
the Corporate Executive Team on key challenges facing the Group
performance and development planning contribute to retention
and to debate strategies for addressing them. The event also
of key talent, superior performance and accomplishment of
recognised individuals who madeoutstanding contributions
business targets.
in 2003.
The annual performance and development planning (PDP)
In May 2004,a second Global Leadership Survey was conducted
process ensures thatindividuals set business goals aligned
among more than 10,000 managers to gauge opinion on critical
with corporate strategies, set behavioural goals, and create a
issues such as culture and confidence in the Group’s future. Results
development plan. PDP’s are reviewed throughout the year,
showed significant improvement on 29 of 31 items compared with
culminating with an end of year review that is factored into
2002 results. Compared with global benchmarks, managers rate
compensation decisions.
highly on fostering alignment between personal goals and the
Performance with Integrity is central to operating at GlaxoSmithKline mission and fostering an environment of ethics
GlaxoSmithKline. The recent Leadership Survey showed over and integrity. In the survey, 80 per cent of managers were “proud
90per cent believe that “people in their department show to be part of GlaxoSmithKline” and would “gladly refer a friend
commitment to performance with integrity”. or family member to work for GlaxoSmithKline”.
A commitment to flexible working through flexi-time, With regard to improvement areas, managers report that
teleconferencing, remote working and flexible work schedules, GlaxoSmithKline should continue to enhance our environment as
recognises that employees work best in an environment that a place where people are able to do their best work and engage
helps them integrate their work and personal lives. managers in making the changes necessary to compete effectively.
Each business and function has developed action plans to address
Diversity areas for improvement.
The GlaxoSmithKline diversity initiative focuses on improving
The Group continually seeks ways of improving the efficiency and
performance by responding to the diverse needs of employees,
effectiveness of employee communications, in order to maximise
customers, and external stakeholders. At the second annual
awareness of critical information within a diverse global audience.
Multicultural Marketing and Diversity Awards, 80 entrants from
A streaming video project is underway, whichwill allow senior
five countries highlighted innovative activities that demonstrated
executives to communicate more frequentlywithemployees.
business impact. In 2004, the global management population by
gender was 65per cent male, 35per cent female. For moredetails
Health and well-being
on diversity measures, see the Corporate responsibility report in
Global policies on Employee Health are supported by mandatory
the section, Employment Practices.
standards that integrate employee health and safety and
The Group is committed to employment policies free from environmental requirements. These standards are applied to all
discrimination against potential or existing staff on the grounds the Group’sfacilities and operations worldwide.
of age, race, ethnic and national origin, gender, sexual orientation,
Based on the first year data from theglobal health experience,
faith or disability. GlaxoSmithKline is committed to offering people
three health areas have been identified for additional focus. These
with disabilities access to the full range of recruitment and career
are musculoskeletal, mental health and conditions related to
opportunities.
material handling. Multidisciplinary teams are working to set
baselines,align reporting and develop interventions. This effort
Recruitment
will help to reduce the incidence and impact of these conditions
Whilst voluntary turnover is only four per cent, GlaxoSmithKline
in the future.
iscommitted to continuing to enhanceitsrecruitment processes.
Candidate Care transforms the recruitment process into a customer
Human resources services and information systems
experience, aiming to build positive relationships with those who
GlaxoSmithKline’s human resource delivery strategy is designed to
seek to join and stay with the Group.
make the most of technology. Humanresources services and
information are delivered through low cost, highly effective
Talent management and leadership development
channels that make it easy for job candidates, employees and
Every individual creates a development plan yearly as part of the
retirees to access information about employment, compensation
PDP process. Key talentisthen identified through Talent Reviews
and benefits, policies and programmes. These include intuitive
conducted by each business and function. Individuals are given
personalised web based tools, available to employees in many
feedback on development needs, and key talent is developed
locations.
through new positions, assignments and courses. A pool of
successors is identified for all Vice-Presidentpositions and other
critical positions in the organisation.Description of business GlaxoSmithKline 21
Invest in communities
Success through partnership GlaxoSmithKline does not operate a single charitable foundation
but has a number of small country-based foundations in Canada,
GlaxoSmithKline continues to build on its history of community
the Czech Republic, France, Italy, Romania, Spain and North
investment programmes and support for better healthcare delivery
Carolina in the USA. The grants made by these foundations
and education in under-served communities around the world.
in 2004 are included in the investment total.
The Group does this through active engagement with numerous
external stakeholders including the World Health Organization GlaxoSmithKline is a member of the PerCent Club, giving over
(WHO) and members of the not-for-profit community. It funds oneper cent of itsprofit before tax to good causes, and has
community-led initiatives across the world and donates medicines been recognised as the largest giver of any FTSE 100 company
to support humanitarian efforts and community-based healthcare. for the previous three years.
Many of the programmes are long term commitments that help
bring about sustainable change in communities. Globalhealthprogrammes
Eliminating Lymphatic Filariasis
Community investment The Group’s effort to help rid the world of the disabling disease,
lymphatic filariasis (LF),continuedin close partnership with the
GlaxoSmithKline’s global community investment activities in 2004
governments ofendemiccountries, the WHO and over 40partner
were valued at£328million, equivalent to 5.4 per cent of Group
organisations. TheGrouphas committed to donate as much of
profit before tax. This comprised product donations of £260
the anti-parasitic drug albendazole as requiredto treat the one
million, cash giving of £48 million, in-kind donations of £2 million
billion people at risk in 80 countries by 2020.
and costs of £18 millionto manage and deliver community
programmes in more than100countries. In 2004, the sixth year of the programme,67million albendazole
treatments, worth£7million at wholesale acquisition cost, were
Product donations in 2004 were as follows:
donated to34countries. Since theglobal elimination programme
Productdonations (total £260 million) started in 2000over85million people havereceived donated
albendazole– a cumulative total of307million treatments. During
1. Patient Assistant Programs 2004, Egyptand several Pacific Islands completed the minimum
3 £203 million five rounds of mass drug administration and preliminary results
look impressive.
2. Albendazole for LF
2 £7 million In addition to donating albendazole tablets,the Group gave grants
of£1 millionand staff expertise to support the activities of the
3. Humanitarian Product Donations
£50 million Global Alliance to Eliminate LF.
1 GlaxoSmithKline’s Positive Action on HIV/AIDS
Positive Action is GlaxoSmithKline’s 12-year pioneering global
programme working with communities affected by AIDS. It
GlaxoSmithKline’s cash givingwastargeted primarily at health supportscommunity-based organisationstodelivereffective HIV
and education initiatives. and AIDS education, prevention and healthcare services.New
programmes were launched in Latin America, Asia and central
Breakdown ofcashgiving (total £48 million) and easternEuropeto address the emerging epidemic.
During 2004, Positive Action worked with 23 partners to support
5 1. Health (44%) programmes in 35 countries, including:
4 2. Education (38%) • raising awareness about AIDS among men in Kenya
3
• providing UKprisoners with education on preventing blood-
1 3. Arts and Culture (2%) borne diseases
4. Environment (2%) • training more than 350 trainers of health and socialcare
workers in 130 African organisations
5. Other (14%) • promoting partnerships in Asia to improve patients’
2
understanding about treatment
• providing support for thousands of community delegates at
regional and international AIDS conferences.
In the UK, GlaxoSmithKline contributed£4 millionin 2004 to its
continuing corporate programme of charitable activities supporting The GlaxoSmithKline African Malaria Partnership
over70 organisationsin health, medical research, science The GlaxoSmithKline African Malaria Partnership supports three
education, the arts and the environment. In addition Group behavioural development programmes working in eight African
companies in the UK provided a further £4million for community countries, following the addition of Senegal to the programme
purposes. Corporate programmes in North America focused on in 2004. During 2004, the Group disbursed further grants in a
improving public education and access to better healthcare for $1.5 millionthree year commitment to its partners; Freedom From
children and seniorcitizenswith funding of$12million.In Hunger, the African Medical and Research Foundation (AMREF)
addition nearly$16millionwas donated by the Group’s US-based and Plan International. The programmes are expected to benefit
businesses to regional community activities. nearly two million people and focus particularly on young children
and pregnant women, encouraging effective prevention measures,
prompt treatment and antenatal malaria management.22 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business
Invest in communities continued
PHASE The Group supported the British Lung Foundation’s Baby Breathe
The PHASE initiative (Personal Hygiene and Sanitation Education) Easy programme with a two year grant of £386,000, funding
is providing education to thousands of school children inKenya, a pilot scheme which will be run in nine regions across the UK.
Zambia, Nicaragua and Peru to improve their health and hygiene Thissupportsparents and carers ofbabies and children under
to fight infectious diseases.In 2004, the Groupcommitted three- five,withrecurringchest problems.
year funding of £226,000to extendthe programmeintoUganda
in partnership with the Ministry of Health and AMREF. The Education initiatives
achievements of PHASE were again recognisedwith a World The Group’s efforts to improve public and science education
Business Award in support of the Millennium Development Goals included a three year grant of $300,000 to the National Board
and an industry award for disease prevention and education. for Professional Teaching Standards to increase the number of
science teachers pursuing certification inNorth Carolina and
Humanitarian product donations Philadelphia.
During 2004,GlaxoSmithKline donated essential products such
A grant of $50,000 to the Center for Corporate Citizenship of the
as antibiotics, through non-profit partners including AmeriCares,
US Chamber of Commerce links the Department of Education into
MAP International and Project HOPE, in response to humanitarian
a programme to review how education impacts the economy. The
relief efforts and community healthcare. For example, the Group
Philadelphia Education Fund received a grant of $129,000 for the
donated products following the floods in Bangladesh,hurricanes
Middle Grade Matterscampaign to improve middle-level education
in the USA and the Caribbean, typhoons in the Philippines, the
for children aged 11-16.
conflict in Sudan, and the Asian tsunami.
GlaxoSmithKline continued to support the INSPIRE (INnovative
In 2004, the total value of the Group’shumanitarian product
Scheme for Post-doctoral researchers in Research and Education)
donations was£50million. This excludes albendazole donated
scheme, developed in partnership with Imperial College London
to the lymphatic filariasis elimination programme. Product
and the Specialist Schools Trust, with a£1 milliondonation over
donations are valuedat wholesale acquisition cost which is the
four years. INSPIRE places post-doctoral researchers in specialist
wholesale list price,not including discounts, and is a standard
science schools to assist with science teaching.
industry method.
Science in the Summer, a free library-based science education
Community initiatives programme in the Philadelphia area teaching basic scientific
GlaxoSmithKline is dedicated to strengthening the fabric of concepts, continued to receive support with a grant of $365,000.
communities whereit operatesthrough providing health Now in its 19th year, more than 68,000 children have participated
and education initiatives and support for local civic and cultural in the programme. Science Across the World, an award-winning
institutions that improve quality of life. GlaxoSmithKline’s international education programme that uses web-based resources
contribution to improve healthcare includes a three-year grant of to promote discussion of science issues between 90,000 children
more than$2 millionwhich has helped to expand The Children’s in schools inover 100 countries, received a grant of£100,000.
Health Fund’s Referral Management Initiative (RMI) into seven US
states, ensuring continuity of specialist medical care for high-risk Employee involvement
children who are often homeless. GlaxoSmithKline employees are encouraged to contribute to
theirlocal communities through employee volunteering schemes.
TheGroup supported the Arthur Ashe Institute for Urban Health
Support varies around the world but includes employee time,
with grants totalling $350,000 over three years for core funding
cashdonations to charities where employeesvolunteerand a
and the Community Health Empowerment Programtoprovide
matching gifts programme. In many countries, GlaxoSmithKline
health education for low-income neighbourhoods in non-
offers tax-efficientmethodsfor employee givingin accordance
traditional venues,such as churches and shops.
with local taxation guidelines.
GlaxoSmithKlinecontinues its10year partnership with Barretstown
In 2004, in the USA, the Group matched more than 15,000
in Ireland and L’Envol in France which provide life-changing activity
employee and retiree gifts at a value of over $4 million. The
programmes backed by the medical community forEuropean
Group also matched the $1.3 million of employee donations to
children with cancer and life-threatening illnesses, helping themto
the GlaxoSmithKlineand United Way campaigngiving a combined
rediscover theirconfidence,self-esteemand participate fullyin
contributionof $2.6 million. In addition, GlaxoSmithKline’s
their everyday lives. They received£250,000
Investment in Volunteer Excellence(GIVE) programme provided
and£100,000, respectively.
grants to 700 charitable organisationswhere employees or their
The annual Impact Awards recognise excellence in the work of partners have volunteered at least 50 hours in the year.
non-profit community health organisations across the UK and in
GlaxoSmithKline’s Making a Difference programme in the UK
the Greater Philadelphia area of the USA. Over 20 charities
provided grants of £269,000to over 400 non-profit organisations
receivedunrestricted awards for their work dealing with diverse
or registered charities based on employee involvement.
issues such as domestic and community violence, sexual health
for young peopleand child abuse.
To further medical research, over £500,000 was provided to UK
medical charities such as Breakthrough Breast Cancer, Cystic
Fibrosis Trust, DEBRA, Ehlers-Danlos Support Group and the Motor
Neurone Disease Association.Description of business GlaxoSmithKline 23
Consumer Healthcare
Current business The five Global brand concepts and teams are:
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare manufactures and markets • Aquafresh
consumer brands in the healthcare industry. The organisation has • Sensodyne
structure and responsibility at global, regional and local levels. • Dental care & cold sore
Operations span the majority of the world’s geography and are • Panadol
sold principally across two major trade channels, grocery and • Smoking Control
pharmacy. Brands are marketed across the full regulatory
The Future Group also includes centres of excellence in global
spectrum from prescription through to free sale.
project management, medical marketing and e-marketing. Support
The environment in which the Consumer Healthcare business functions have also reorganised to more effectively serve the new
operates has become ever more challenging: model.
• consumers are demanding better quality, better value and Lead market brands (30 per cent of global sales)
improved performance These brands are large and marketed in several territories but
• retailers have consolidated, globalised and therefore generally with one anchor market that can lead the development
strengthened their negotiation power of these businesses for other markets. They still enjoy central R&D
• competitors are finding conditions equally challenging and resource, and include such brands as Lucozade, Ribena, Horlicks,
therefore competing more aggressively across all elements Tums andDr Best.
of the marketing mix
Enterprise brands (30 per cent of global sales)
• cycle times for innovation have been reduced.
The remaining valuable local brands are managed in a new model
which retains local responsibility for the brand, communications
New strategy
and innovation. The enterprise brands are also supported by
The vision of the Consumer Healthcare business is to be the
global, regionally-focused resources, to enable application of
fastest growing consumer healthcare group, through
the best practice and the cross-pollination of innovation.
innovation centred on consumers and delivered by science.
The success of Consumer Healthcare’s new business model will
In order to conduct business more effectively in the current
be reflected in the sales growth of the Global, Lead market
environment the Consumer Healthcare business strategy and
and Enterprise brands.
operating model have been redesigned. The new model was
implemented in 2004 and is now operational and targeted to
Research and development – Consumer Healthcare
deliver faster sales growth. It will achieve this through a vigorous
focus on delivering new product developments, tightly aligned R&D has aligned itself closely with the new Consumer Healthcare
with consumer needs. The new model more effectively welds operating model and structure. For the Global brands, it now
together R&D, marketing and commercial operating units with mirrors the commercial structure with R&D teams paired with
a new culture providing: Future Group teams and located in the principal centres for
Consumer Healthcare R&D at Weybridge in the UK and in
• greater focus, alignment and simplicity – less proliferation,
Parsippany in the USA; with this co-location, these sites are
duplication and bureaucracy
now termed Innovation Centres. The focus of R&D is on the
• better, faster ways of working together and no dilution
identification and rapid development of novel products that
of local knowledge or implementation power.
bring benefits to consumers in the over-the-counter (OTC), oral
care and nutritional healthcare markets.
New structure
The focus of the new operating model is on brands and growth
opportunities. Consequently brands are split into three categories
and the business structure is centred on:
• Global brands
• Lead market brands
• Enterprise brands
Global brands (40 per cent of global sales)
For those brands that have sales in multiple markets and similar
positioning such that they may be developed most effectively
using a global approach, a new team called the Future Group
has been created. This group assumes responsibility for consumer
and market understanding, brand equity and strategy, innovation
pipeline and communication. The Future Group comprises
dedicated resources for idea generation and innovation
development covering both product packaging and the whole
communications mix.24 GlaxoSmithKlineDescription of business
Global manufacturing and supply
GlaxoSmithKline has a large portfolio of products, ranging from Regional pharma supply
tablets and toothpaste to inhalers and complex capsules, in over Regional pharma supply focuses on several key activities, the
28,000 different pack sizes and presentations. supply of products that are key in one or more regions, the supply
of products that are important in a particular market, and the
Manufacture of medicines begins with the development of a
tailoring of packaging to meet specific local requirements. A key
therapeutic active ingredient (bulk active) in a selected formulation.
focus for the regional pharma supply team is on reducing costs
Global Manufacturing and Supply (GMS) develops manufacturing
so that GlaxoSmithKline can compete more effectively in all its
processes for full scale volume production of active compounds at
markets. There are 31 sites in 23 countries in Regional pharma
primary manufacturing sites. Converting active compounds into a
supply.
finished dosage formulation is the responsibility of the secondary
manufacturing sites.
New product and global supply
GMS operates as a single global network of 82 sites in 37 New product and global supply focuses on ensuring that the
countries. Each year GMS produces around 6,000 tonnes of bulk appropriate technical competencies exist to support rapid and
actives and over four billion packs, which are packaged and successful new product introduction. It works closely with R&D’s
delivered for sale in over 160 countries. Throughout the world it development team to do this. It also ensures secure supply of the
also supports approximately 2,000 new product and line extension key brands that are sold across many markets and have global
launches a year. distribution. This division is the focal point for developing and
introducing new secondary manufacturing technologies for GMS.
By adopting leading edge practices and developing its people GMS
It co-ordinates with Primary supply operations to ensure optimal
expects to derive benefits from:
alignment between the two divisions and a full value stream
• a secure source of supply of high quality products approach to introducing new products. There are eight sites in
six countries in New product and global supply.
• compliance with regulatory requirements and customer
expectations
Operational excellence
• best in class cost. GMShas developed a set of metrics and a common methodology
for driving improvement; in particular these have focused on
Organisation increasing the robustness of the manufacturing processes to reduce
waste and maintain the highest quality standards. Extensive
Supply divisions
leadership education has been carried out to reinforce a culture of
The former five geographic and supply chain structures are now
continuous improvement, with staff empowered to solve problems
four supply divisions, with sites grouped together based upon
in a rigorous, controlled and structured way. All this has given the
common business drivers, areas of expertise and the commercial
capability to drive step-change in performance, and to implement
activities that they support. These four divisions are described
improvements rapidly across the manufacturing network.
below:
Since the formation of GlaxoSmithKline, merger rationalisation
Primary supply andAntibiotics and operational excellence initiatives have reduced the number
Primary supply and Antibiotics focuses on ensuring the supply of of manufacturing sites by 33 (29 per cent).
high quality and competitively priced bulk actives and on driving
improvements in primary technologies and processes. It also External suppliers
supports the delivery of maximum value from the antibiotics Manufacturing spends over £2 billion with many external suppliers
franchise through a combined primary and secondary approach every year, including the purchase of active ingredients, chemical
to cost competitive supply and response to market opportunities intermediates, part-finished and finished products. GMS takes
and customer needs. There are 18 sites in eight countries in appropriate steps to protect its supply chains from any disruption
Primary supply andAntibiotics. resulting from interrupted external supply through appropriate
stock levels, contracting and alternative registered suppliers.
Consumer Healthcare supply
Consumer Healthcare supply focuses on delivering high-quality, Vaccines supply chain
competitively-produced products and offering the capability Vaccine manufacturing is located primarily at Rixensart and Wavre
for rapid new product introduction in a highly innovative and in Belgium, with three other sites in France, Germany and Hungary
competitive business which has far shorter time frames than and two joint ventures in China and Russia. Managing the vaccine
pharmaceuticals. New technologies have become a fundamental supply chain involves anticipating market needs and using a flexible
platform for lowering costs and providing flexibility in operations. approach to be able to meet fluctuations in demand. These are
There are 25 sites in 18 countries in Consumer Healthcare supply. based on forecasts from the different markets and firm orders from
health authorities for mass vaccination campaigns.
Bulk, filling and packaging are carefully balanced and stocking
of vaccines helps manage short-term increases in demand. Such
increases are prompted by disease outbreaks or increased demand
from the public owing to disease awareness campaigns.Description of business GlaxoSmithKline 25
Products and competition
Pharmaceutical products Anti-virals
Combivir, a combination of Retrovirand Epivir, has consolidated
GlaxoSmithKline’s principal pharmaceutical products are presently
the position of these two reverse transcriptase inhibitors as the
directed to nine therapeutic areas. An analysis of salesby these
cornerstone of many multiple anti-HIV product regimens.
therapeutic areas, and a description of the principal products, are
Physician acceptance has clearly demonstrated the value placed
setout below:
on minimising the pill burden faced by patients.
2004 2003 2002
Turnover by therapeutic area £m £m £m Ziagenis a reverse transcriptase inhibitor. The product’s potency,
Respiratory 4,415 4,417 3,987 ease of use and resistance profile allow it to play a significant
Central nervous system 3,463 4,455 4,511 role in a variety of highly active, well tolerated andsimplified HIV
Anti-virals 2,360 2,349 2,299 treatment regimens.
Anti-bacterials/anti-malarials 1,561 1,815 2,210
Triziviris a combination of Combivirand Ziagen, combining three
Metabolic 1,253 1,079 960
anti-HIV therapies in one tablet, for twice daily administration.
Vaccines 1,196 1,123 1,080
Oncology and emesis 934 1,001 977 Epzicom/Kivexa, approved by the FDA in August 2004, is a
Cardiovascular and urogenital 933 771 661 combination of Epivirand Ziagenthat is taken as one tablet with
Other 1,031 1,171 1,310 once-daily dosing for HIV/AIDS in combination with at least one
other anti-HIV drug.
17,146 18,181 17,995
Lexiva/Telzir is a protease inhibitor for the treatment of HIV, that is
Products and their versions may not be approved for all indications
well tolerated and more convenient than Agenerase which it
in all markets where they are available.
supersedes. Lexiva may be taken twice daily or once daily when
boosted with ritonavir.
Respiratory
Seretide/Advair, a combination of Sereventand Flixotide, offers Zeffixhas been approved for marketing in the USA, Europe, China
along-acting bronchodilator and an anti-inflammatory in a single and other markets for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B.
inhaler.It is approved for the treatment of asthma and COPD.
Valtrexis a treatment for episodic genital herpes as well as the
Flixotide/Floventand Becotide/Becloventare inhaled steroids for long term suppression and reduction of transmission of genital
the treatment of inflammation associated with asthma and COPD. herpes, zoster (shingles), cold sores and chicken pox. Valtrex
supersedes Zovirax, which is also used to treat herpes infections.
Sereventis a long-acting bronchodilator used to treat asthma and
COPD, and Ventolinis a selective short-acting bronchodilator used
Anti-bacterials and anti-malarials
to treat bronchospasm.
Augmentinis a broad-spectrum antibiotic suitable for the
Flixonase/Flonaseand Beconaseare intra-nasal preparations for treatment of a wide range of common bacterial infections and
the treatment of perennial and seasonal rhinitis. is particularly effective against respiratory tract infections.
Augmentin ES-600is an extra strength suspension specifically
Central nervous system (CNS) designed to treat children with recurrent or persistent middle ear
Seroxat/Paxilis a selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitor (SSRI)for infections. Augmentin XRis an extra strength tablet form for
the treatment of depression, panic, obsessive compulsive disorder, adults to combat difficult to treat infections.
post traumatic stress disorder, social anxiety disorder, premenstrual
Zinnatis an oral antibiotic used primarily for community-acquired
dysphoric disorder, and general anxiety disorder.
infections of the lower respiratory tract.
Wellbutrinis an anti-depressant, available in the USA in normal,
Malaroneis an oral anti-malarial used for the treatment and
sustained-release (SR) and once daily formulations.
prophylaxis of malaria caused by Plasmodium falciparum.
Imigran/Imitrexis a 5HT1 receptor agonist used for the treatment
Lapdapis an effective and well tolerated therapy for the treatment
ofsevere or frequent migraine and cluster headache, and has
of malaria, which has been developed through a
become the reference product in this sector. Naramig/Amergeis
public/private collaboration.
a newer migraine product.
Lamictal, a well established treatment for epilepsy, is now also
indicated for bipolar disorder.
Requipis a specific dopamine D2/D3 receptor agonist indicated
for the treatment ofParkinson’s disease.26 GlaxoSmithKlineDescription of business
Products and competition continued
Metabolic Cardiovascular and urogenital
Avandiais a potent insulin sensitising agent which acts on the Coregis an alpha/beta blocker which has been proven to be
underlying pathophysiology of type 2 diabetes. effective intreating patients with mild, moderate and severe heart
failure, heart attack or hypertension. GlaxoSmithKline has sole
Avandametis a combination of Avandiaand metformin HCI; it
marketing rights in the USA and Canada. Generic versions of the
is the first medicine that targets insulin resistance and decreases
product are available in Canada.
glucose production in one convenient pill.
Levitrais a PDE-5 inhibitor indicated for male erectile dysfunction.
Avandaryl, a fixed-dosed combination of Avandia, and Amaryl,
GlaxoSmithKline has co-promotion rightsin the USAand more
a Sanofi-Aventis product,was approved in Canada in
than 20 other markets .
October 2004. An FDA approvable letter was received
in 2004. GlaxoSmithKline is working with the FDA to bring Avodartis a 5-ARI inhibitor currently indicated for benign prostatic
about a resolution of the outstanding issues. hyperplasia. A large clinical outcome study is underway examining
its efficacy in the prevention of prostate cancer.
Vaccines
Arixtra and Fraxiparinewere acquired in 2004 as part of the
GlaxoSmithKline markets a range of hepatitis vaccines. Havrix
divestitures required for the merger of Sanofiand Aventis.
protects against hepatitis A and Engerix-Bagainst hepatitis B.
Arixtra,a selective Factor Xa inhibitor, is indicated for the
Twinrixis a combined hepatitis A and B vaccine, protecting against
prophylaxis of deep vein thrombosis, which may lead to pulmonary
both diseases with one vaccine and available in both adult and
embolism, in hip fracture surgery,knee replacementand hip
paediatric strengths.
replacement surgery. It is also indicated for the treatment of deep
Infanrix is a range of paediatric vaccine combinations. Infanrix vein thrombosis andpulmonary embolism.
provides protection against diphtheria, tetanus and pertussis
Fraxiparineis a low-molecular weight heparin indicated for
(whooping cough). Infanrix PeNta/Pediarix provides additional
prophylaxis of thromboembolic disorders (particularly deep vein
protection against hepatitis B and polio, and Infanrix hexa further
thrombosis and pulmonary embolism) in general surgery and
adds protection against haemophilus influenzae type b, which
in orthopedic surgery, treatment of deep vein thrombosis and
causes meningitis.
prevention of clotting during hemodialysis.
GlaxoSmithKline also markets Priorix, a measles, mumps and
The European marketing rights toIntegrilinwere acquired in 2004.
rubella vaccine, Typherix, a vaccine for protection against typhoid
A GP IIb-IIIa inhibitor, it is approved in the EU for the prevention
fever, and Varilrix, a vaccine against varicella or chicken pox. In
of early myocardial infarction.
addition, the Group markets a range of vaccines to prevent
meningitis under the umbrella name Mencevax.
Other
This category includes Betnovate, thehigher potency Dermovate
Oncology and emesis
and the newer Cutivate,which are anti-inflammatory steroid
Zofranis used to prevent nausea and vomiting associated with
products used to treat skin diseases suchas eczema and psoriasis,
chemotherapy and radiotherapy for cancer, and is available in
Relafen,a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug for the treatment
bothoral and injectable forms. It is also approved for use in the
of arthritis,and Zantac, for the treatment of peptic ulcer disease
prevention and treatment of post-operative nausea and vomiting.
and a range ofgastric acid related disorders.
Hycamtinis a second line treatment both for ovarian cancer and
forsmall cell lung cancer.
Bexxaris a treatment for patients with CD20 follicular, non-
Hodgkin’s lymphoma with and without transformation whose
disease is refractory to rituximab and who have relapsed following
chemotherapy.Description of business GlaxoSmithKline 27
Pharmaceuticals competition Anti-virals
Major competitors in the HIV market include Gilead, Bristol Myers
The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive.
Squibb, Abbott, Merck and Pfizer.
GlaxoSmithKline’s principal competitors are large international
pharmaceutical companies with substantial resources. Some of GlaxoSmithKline has a pioneering role in the HIV market, with
these companies and their major products are mentioned below. Retrovirand Epiviracting as the cornerstone of combination
therapyand available as Combivirin a single tablet. The launches
Pharmaceuticals may be subject to competition from other
of Ziagen, Agenerase,Trizivir, Lexiva andEpizcom have broadened
products during the period of patent protection and, once off
theGroup’s portfolio of HIV products.
patent, from generic versions. The manufacturers of generic
products typically donot bear significant research and development Valtrexhas strengthened the Group’s position in the anti-herpes
costs and consequently areable to offer their products at area. Zoviraxfaces competition from generic aciclovir. Both Valtrex
considerably lower prices than thebranded competitors. A research and Zoviraxcompete with Novartis’ Famvir. Zeffixwas the first
and development based pharmaceutical company will normally anti-viral on the market to treat hepatitis B. Gilead’s Hepsera was
seek to achieve a sufficiently high profit margin and sales volume the second. GlaxoSmithKline has marketing rights to Hepserain
during the period of patent protection to repay the original some key markets.
investment, which is generally substantial, and to fund research
forthe future. Competition from generic products generally occurs Anti-bacterials and anti-malarials
as patents in major markets expire. Increasingly patent challenges Generic versions of both Augmentinand Ceftin/Zinnatare available
are made prior to patent expiry, claiming that the innovator patent in the USA. Augmentinhas also lost patent protection in various
is not valid and/or that it is not infringed by the generic product. countries in Europe. AugmentinXRand AugmentinEScompete
Following loss of patent protection, generic products rapidly against a broad range of other branded and generic antibiotics.
capture a large share of the market, particularly in the USA. Malarone’s safety profile and convenient dosing regimen have
helped put this product in a strong position versus mefloquine
GlaxoSmithKline believes that remaining competitive is dependent
for malaria prophylaxis.
upon the discovery and development of new products, together
with effective marketing of existing products. Within the
Metabolic
pharmaceutical industry, the introduction of new products and
The major competitor for Avandiais Takeda Chemical’s Actos,
processes by competitors may affect pricing levels or result in
which is co-promoted with Eli Lilly in the USA.
changing patterns of product use. There can be no assurance that
products may not become outmoded, notwithstanding patent or
Vaccines
trade mark protection. In addition, increased government and
GlaxoSmithKline’s major competitors in the vaccine market include
other pressures for physicians and patients to use generic
SanofiPasteur (SP), Merck and Wyeth. Engerix-Band Havrix
pharmaceuticals, rather than brand-name medicines, may increase
compete with vaccines produced by SP and Merck – Comvax and
competition for products that are no longer protected by patent.
Recombivax HB for hepatitis B, and Vaqta and Avaxim for hepatitis
A. Infanrix’smajor competitor is SP’s range of DTPa-based
Respiratory
combination vaccines.
GlaxoSmithKline’s respiratory franchise is driven by the growth of
Seretide/Advair, gaining patients from competitor products and
Oncology and emesis
the cannibalisation of Sereventand Flixotide/Flovent. Major
Zofran presently provides GlaxoSmithKline with a leadership
respiratory competitors are Singulair from Merck, especially in the
position in the anti-emetic market where competitor companies
USA and in Europe, Symbicort from AstraZeneca and Spiriva from
include Roche, Sanofi-Aventis and more recently Merck. Major
Pfizer/Boehringer Ingelheim.
competitors in the diverse cytotoxic market include Bristol Myers
Squibb, Sanofi-Aventis, Pfizer and Novartis. GlaxoSmithKline’s
CNS disorders
cytotoxic portfolio, led by Hycamtinand Navelbine, currently holds
Major competitors in the USA to Paxilareits generic forms,as
a relatively small market position.
well as generic fluoxetine, the generic form of Eli Lilly’s Prozac,
Zoloft from Pfizer, Forest Laboratories’ Celexa and Lexapro. The
Cardiovascular and urogenital
principal competitors in the USA for Wellbutrinaregeneric forms
GlaxoSmithKline markets Coregin the USA where its major
of bupropion, the generic forms of SSRIs and Effexor XR, a Wyeth
competitors are Toprol XL and generic betablockers. Avodart
product. Paxil CRand the once-daily Wellbutrin XLhelp to retain
competes directly with Merck’s Proscar within the BPH market.
a strong presence in the anti-depressant market, given the
GlaxoSmithKline has co-promotion rights in the USA and over
availability of generic paroxetinein the USA. Generic competition
20 other countries for Levitra,which faces competition from
for Seroxat/Paxil has also commenced in the UK and a number
Pfizer’s Viagra and Lilly/Icos’ Cialis.
of other markets.28 GlaxoSmithKlineDescription of business
Products and competition continued
Consumer Healthcare products Oral care
The leading Oral care products are toothpastes and mouthwashes
GlaxoSmithKline’s principal consumer healthcare products are in
under the Aquafresh, Sensodyne, Macleansand Odolbrand
three major areas. An analysis of sales by these areas isset out
names, and a range of toothbrushes sold under the Aquafresh,
below:
and Dr Bestnames. In addition, denture care products are available
2004 2003 2002 principally under the Polident, Poligripand Coregabrand names.
£m £m £m
OTC medicines 1,489 1,556 1,586 Nutritional healthcare
Oral care 1,088 1,082 1,052 The leading products in this category are Lucozade glucose energy
Nutritional healthcare 636 622 579 and sports drinks, Ribena, a blackcurrant juice-based drink rich in
3,213 3,260 3,217 vitamin C, and Horlicks, a range of milk-based malted food and
chocolate drinks.
In 2004 sales were three per cent higher in CER terms than in
2003 but declined one per cent in sterling terms. Consumer Healthcare competition
GlaxoSmithKline holds leading global positions in all its key
Major products which are not necessarily sold in all markets are:
consumer product areas. Worldwide it is the second largest in
Category Product Oral care and the third largest in OTC medicines. In Nutritional
Over-the-counter medicines healthcare it holds the leading position in the UK, India and
Analgesics Panadol Ireland.
Dermatologicals Zovirax
The main competitors include the major international companies
Abreva
Colgate-Palmolive, Johnson & Johnson, Pfizer, Procter & Gamble,
Gastro-intestinal Tums
Unilever and Wyeth. In addition, there are many other companies
Citrucel
that compete with GlaxoSmithKline in certain markets.
Respiratory tract Contac
Beechams The major competitor products in OTC medicines are:
Smoking control Commit
• in the USA: Metamucil (laxative), Pepcid (indigestion) and
Nicorette
private label smoking control products
NicoDerm CQ
NiQuitin CQ • in the UK: Lemsip (cold remedy), Nurofen and Anadin
Nicabate CQ (analgesics), and Nicorette and Nicotinell (smoking control
Natural wellness support Abtei treatments).
Oral care Aquafresh In Oral care the major competitors are Colgate-Palmolive’s Colgate
Dr Best and Procter & Gamble’s Crest.
Macleans
In Nutritional healthcare the major competitors to Horlicksare
Odol
Ovaltine and Milo malted food and chocolate drinks. The
Odol Med 3
competitors to Ribenaare primarily local fruit juice products, while
Polident
Lucozadecompetes with other energy drinks.
Poligrip
Sensodyne
Nutritional healthcare Lucozade
Ribena
Horlicks
Over-the-counter medicines
The leading products are Panadol, a widely available
paracetamol/acetominophen analgesic; Nicorettegum in the USA;
the NicoDerm, NiQuitin CQandNicabaterange of smoking control
products; Tums,a calcium-based antacid; Citrucellaxative; Contac
for the treatment of colds; Abtei, a natural medicines and vitamin
range; andZoviraxand Abrevafor the treatment of cold sores. In
2004, the Group obtained the OTC marketing rights to orlistat in
the USA, an FDA approved prescription product for obesity
management, marketed by Roche as Xenical.Description of business GlaxoSmithKline 29
Regulatory environment
Regulation – Pharmaceuticals Across International markets, countries outside the USA and
Europe, the regulatory environment continues to be extremely
GlaxoSmithKline operates within a highly regulated environment.
varied and challenging. GlaxoSmithKline anticipates that the
Regional and country-specific laws and regulations define the data
introduction of new products will continue to require substantial
required to show safety and efficacy of pharmaceutical products,
effort, time and expense to comply with regulatory requirements.
as well as govern testing, approval, manufacturing, labelling and
marketing of drugs. These regulatory requirements are a major
Price controls
factor in determining whethera marketable product may be
In manycountries the prices of pharmaceutical products are
successfully developedand the amount of time and expense
controlled by law. Governments may also influence prices through
associated with this development.
their control of national healthcare organisations, which may bear
a large part of the cost of supplying products to consumers. Recent
Regulation process
Government healthcare reforms in countries such as France, Spain
In 2004 GlaxoSmithKlineadopted the Common Technical
and Germany may restrict pricing and reimbursement.
Document format for marketing applications and major
supplements. Thisis a single format for registering a product that In the USA, recent legislation on healthcare reform, cross-border
is accepted by regulatory authorities in many regions.These trade, the acceleration of generics to market and increased patient
applications are being prepared and submitted electronically. contributions have further increased the focus on pricing. Currently
there are no government price controls over private sector
Other harmonisation activities at a global and regional level are
purchases, but federal legislation requires pharmaceutical
ongoing with some success at standardisation. However, the
manufacturers to pay prescribed rebates on certain drugs in order
regulatory environment is varied and changes rapidly. The national
to be eligible for reimbursement under Medicaid and other federal
regulatory authorities in many jurisdictions have high standards of
healthcare programmes.
technical appraisal and consequently the introduction of new
pharmaceutical products generally entails a lengthy
Medicare
approvalprocess.
The US Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and
In the European Union, there are currently two procedures for Modernization Act of 2003 provides limited immediate benefits
obtaining marketing authorisations for medicinal products: to Medicare patients – the disabled and those over 65 years old –
in the form of government sponsored discount cards to be
• The Centralised Procedure, with applications made direct to
replaced with a comprehensive out-patient drug benefit in 2006.
theEuropean Medicines Evaluation Agency and leading to an
The benefit is intended to be administered by a number of private
authorisation valid in all member states, is compulsory for
organisationsthatwill construct benefit structures consistent with
products derived from biotechnology and optional for new
federal law and will market the benefit to Medicare patients.
activesubstances and other innovative medicinal products
While the law provides strong incentives for manufacturers to
• The Mutual Recognition Procedure, which is applicable to the
negotiate prices with plan sponsors, the bill does not provide for
majority of conventional medicinal products, operates by
explicit government price controls. As most seniorcitizensalready
mutual recognition of national marketing authorisations.
have some drug coverage, the greatest increase in demand is likely
Where agreement cannot be reached, it is resolved by a
tobe in the population of low-income seniorcitizenswho have no
procedure of binding arbitration.
coverage. Those low-income seniorcitizenswill receive subsidies
New EU legislation is to be implemented by the end of 2005, for the premiums, deductible and co-payments associated with the
which will improve the Centralised Procedure and increase the comprehensive benefit.
range of products for which it is compulsory. The Mutual
This law also changes the way that drugs administered insurgeries,
Recognition Procedure (thedecentralised procedure), which is
clinics and hospital outpatient departments will be reimbursed.
intended to facilitate agreement between the member states, will
Instead of reimbursement based on prices published by
also be amended. The implementation of the new legislation will
independent pricing services,doctorand clinic reimbursement will
bring with it a number of other changes, for example, increased
be based on actual market prices as reported by manufacturers
post marketing safety monitoring and new types of conditional
and audited by the government. The formula used for hospital
product approvals.
outpatient reimbursement will not change in 2005, but the US
Grant of a marketing authorisation affords the Group a protection Government is directed to devise a new, cost-based methodology
period during which a competitor cannot rely on confidential data for 2006 and beyond.
in the regulatory file as a basis for its own marketing authorisation.
The new EUlegislation will, for the first time, harmonise the data
protection period for both submission routes.
The FDA has introduced a new focus called the Critical Path
Initiative. Thisis intended to enable innovation in drug
development, hopefully allowing for more rapid development and
approval of needed medicines. This initiative will investigate the
use of pharmacogenomics and surrogate markers of efficacy,
among other things, such as manufacturing innovations, as tools
for rapidly developing and producing safe and effective drugs for
unmet medical needs.30 GlaxoSmithKlineDescription of business
Regulatory environment continued
Value for money The basic patent position with respect to significant products is
It is becoming increasingly necessary to demonstrate the value for as follows:
money of new products, in particular the impacton drug budget
Augmentin.The patent on the key active ingredient, potassium
expenditure and the burden of the disease that will be treated.
clavulanate has expired in all markets except Italy (2006b) and
In some markets, the need to satisfy healthcare purchasers as to generic competition exists in most markets.
value for money is becoming an additional hurdle for product
Avandia and Avandamet.The patent on the active ingredient
acceptance over and above the regulatory tests ofsafety, efficacy
rosiglitazone is not due to expire until 2012a,cin the USA and
and quality. This can delay bringing effective and improved
2013bin Europe. Patents on the commercial form of the active
medicines to the market and reduce their effective patent
ingredient rosiglitazone maleate are not due to expire until 2015
protection time.
in the USA and 2014bin Europe. Litigation challenging the validity
In many markets,especially in the USA and Europe, it is becoming of the patents protecting these products is ongoing in the USAe.
increasingly difficult for even a significantly improved therapy to
Avodart.The patent on the active ingredient dutasteride has a
obtain a premium price over existing medication. Value-based
normal expiry of 2015ain the USA and 2017bin Europe.
pricing may be difficult toapplyin such circumstances, although
in the USA it is still possible to price products to reflect their value. Combivir.The patent on the specific combination of lamivudine
It is not possible to predict whether, and to what extent, the and zidovudine is not due to expire until 2012 in the USA and
Group’sbusiness may be affected by future legislative and 2013bin Europe.
regulatory developments relating to specific pharmaceutical
Coreg.GlaxoSmithKline is the exclusive licensee under the US
products or their price.
patent on the active ingredient carvedilol, which is not due to
expire until 2007a.
Regulation – Consumer Healthcare
Epivir.The patent on the active ingredient lamivudine is not due
The consumer healthcare industry is subject to national regulation to expire until 2010a,cin the USA and 2011bin Europe.
for the testing, approval, manufacturing, labelling and marketing
Flixotide/Floventand Flixonase/Flonase.In the USA, the patent on
of products. In many countries, high standards of technical
the active ingredient fluticasone propionate expired in May 2004.
appraisal entail a lengthy approval process before a new product
In most European countries protection expires in March 2005b.
is launched.
Imigran/Imitrex.The patent on the active ingredient sumatriptan
National regulatory authorisation is also required to approve the
is not due to expire until 2009cin the USA and 2006bin Europe
switch of products from prescription to OTC. The requirements
(2008b Italy). Litigation challenging the validity of the patent
include long-term experience of the quality, safety and efficacy
protecting this product is ongoing in the USAe.
of the product in a wide patient population and data to confirm
that the relevant condition is both self-limiting and easily Lamictal. The patent on the active ingredient lamotrigine is not
diagnosed by the consumer. due to expire until 2009a,c(paediatric extension pending) in the
USA and 2005bin most countries in Europe. Litigation challenging
Intellectual property the validity of this patent in the USA has recently been settlede.
Intellectual property is a key business asset for GlaxoSmithKline. Levitrad. GlaxoSmithKline has co-promotion rights under the US
The effective legal protection of intellectual property is critical in patent on the active ingredient vardenafil which is not due to
ensuring a reasonable return on investment in R&D. Intellectual expire until 2018 in the USA.
property can be protected by patents, trade marks, registered
Lexiva/Telzir.GlaxoSmithKline is the exclusive licensee under the
designs, copyrights and domain name registrations. Patent and
patent on the active ingredient fosamprenavir, which is not due
trade mark rights are regarded as particularly valuable.
to expire until 2017 in the USA and 2019bin Europe.
In many cases generic manufacturers launch, or attempt to
Paxil/Seroxat.The patent on the commercial form of the active
launch, generic versions of patented drugs prior to normal patent
ingredient paroxetine is not due to expire until 2007cin the USA
expiry, arguing that the relevant patents are invalid and/or are not
and 2006 in Europe. Litigation relating tothe validityand
infringed by their product. Significant litigation concerning these
infringement of the patents protecting this product is ongoing
challenges is summarised inNote 30to the Financial statements,
in the USAe. Generic competition has commenced in the USA,
‘Legal proceedings’.
Europe and certain other markets. Paxil CRis protected by a
formulation patent that is not due to expire until 2012.
Patents
GlaxoSmithKline’s policy is to obtain patent protection on all Retrovir.There are no patents on the active ingredient zidovudine.
significant products discovered or developed through its R&D Patents covering pharmaceutical formulations containing
activities. Patent protection for new active ingredients is available zidovudine and their medical use are not due to expire until 2005
in all significant markets. Protection can also be obtained for new in the USA and 2006 in Europe.
pharmaceutical formulations and manufacturing processes, and
for new medical uses and special devices for administering
products.Description of business GlaxoSmithKline 31
Seretide/Advair.The patent on the specific combination of active Responsibility for environment, health and safety
ingredients salmeterol xinafoate and fluticasone propionate is
Environment, health and safety (EHS)is a key element of corporate
not due to expire until 2010 in the USA and 2013bin Europe.
responsibility for the Group and has a high priority. Responsibility
An application for re-issue of the US patent has been filed by
for EHS is at the highest level. There is a corporate group reporting
GlaxoSmithKlinee. The UK patent has been revoked by the UK
to the General Counsel that has overall responsibility for providing
courts. Patents on the individual ingredients do not expire in the
governance and leadership on EHS issues. The head of this group
UK until 2005. In the USA, the patent on salmeterol xinafoate
makes regular reports to the Corporate Executive Team (CET) and
does not expire until 2008.
the Audit and Corporate Responsibility Committees of the Board
Serevent.The patent on the active ingredient salmeterol xinafoate of Directors. Within the businesses, operations managers are
is not due to expire until 2005bin most of Europe (2008b in responsible for EHS and are supported by site-based EHS and
France and 2009b in Italy) and until 2008 in the USA. occupational health professionals.
Trizivir. The patent on the specific combination of lamivudine,
zidovudine and abacavir is not due to expire until 2016 in the EHS strategy
USAand 2016 in Europe. GlaxoSmithKline has a ten-year strategic plan for managing EHS
and sustainability throughout the business, the EHS Plan for
Valtrex. The patent on the active ingredient valaciclovir is not due
Excellence. It is aligned with the Group’s strategy and each year
to expire until 2009ain the USA and 2009bin Europe. Litigation
has a special focus. In 2004, the theme was on responding to
challenging the validity of the patent protecting this product is
external challenges. At the same time continued focus on themes
ongoing in the USAe.
from previous years continues to drive improvements in
Wellbutrin SR, Wellbutrin XL andZyban.The patenton theactive programmes in key risk areas.
ingredient hasexpired. There is now generic competition for the
SR and instant release (IR) forms in the USA. In Europe, regulatory Responding to external challenges
data exclusively provides protection until at least 2005, and until Society expects GlaxoSmithKline to take responsibility for the
2009 in some markets. In the USA, Wellbutrin XLis protected by environmental impact of its products as well as those from its
two formulation patents that are not due to expire until 2018. operations. The focus of attention has expanded from production
Litigationrelating tothe validityand infringement of one of these to products and environmental impact that can arise at any stage
patents is ongoing in theUSAe. in the product life cycle. The theme of the EHS Plan for Excellence
in 2004, responding to external challenges, focused on three key
Ziagen. Thepatenton the active ingredient abacavirisnot due
areas: pharmaceuticals in the environment; chemicals policy; and
to expire until 2012a,cin the USA and 2014bin Europe.
climate change.
Zofran. Thepatenton the active ingredient ondansetronisnot
due to expire until 2005cin the USA and 2005bin Europe, (2007b Completing core programmes
France and 2010bItaly). Patents on use in treating emesis expire The EHS Plan for Excellence in 2005 will focus on completing core
in 2006. Litigationchallenging the validity ofthe emesis use programmes measured by improved audit scores and by
patent is ongoingin the USAe. achievement of the performance targets that were set in 2001.
Trade marks Business drivers and EHS
All of GlaxoSmithKline’s pharmaceutical products are protected by
New product development
registered trade marks in major markets. In general, the same
Product stewardship and environmental aspects of sustainable
mark is used for a product in each market around the world, but
development principles have been introduced into all aspects of
there may be local variations. For example in the USA the trade
new product development. The entire life cycle impact of the
mark Paxilis used instead of Seroxatand Advairis used instead of
product is considered in order to address adverse impacts, to
Seretide.
optimise resources consumed and to reduce waste produced.
Trade mark protection may generally be extended for as long Alternative chemistries and processes are reviewed to build safety
as the trade mark is used by renewing it when necessary. into the processes and to improve mass productivity, which not
GlaxoSmithKline’s trade marks on pharmaceutical products only optimises resource consumption and waste generation but
generally assume an increasing importance when the patent also addresses triple bottom line considerations.
for that product has expired in a particular country and generic
versions of the product become available. Product commercialisation
EHS helps to speed products to market by addressing regulatory
The Consumer Healthcare trade marks are particularly important,
concerns during their development. By incorporating EHS in
as the business is very brand orientated and many products
decision-making on design, packaging and labelling, it is possible
do not have patent protection.
to reduce costs, differentiate products and extend product life.
a) Including patent term restoration under the Hatch-Waxman Act
b) Including extension of term by national or European supplementary protection
certificates
c) Including extension of term for paediatric exclusivity
d) Aregistered trademark of Bayer AG
e) SeeNote 30to Financial statements‘Legal proceedings’.32 GlaxoSmithKlineDescription of business
Regulatory environment continued
Global competitor EHSimprovement
Competitive advantage may be gained by improving public trust Objectives for 2004 focused on the emerging issues of
based on applying best business processes globally and fostering pharmaceuticals in the environment, chemicals policy and climate
a culture of continuous improvement. By optimising processes change, with a theme of responding to external EHS challenges.
and making them more economically viable, potential is created
Numerical targets for EHS performance improvements set in 2001
for lowering the price of medicines which can contribute to the
are to be accomplished over five years. Progress toward meeting
social benefit of allowing greater access to global markets.
these targets is tracked every year and will be published on the
website www.gsk.com. To date significant progress has been made
GlaxoSmithKline people
towards achieving the EHStargets.
Many of the EHS programmes are focused on protecting people.
GlaxoSmithKline is committed to working towards designing a GlaxoSmithKline selects its measures of performance improvement
workplace that minimises work-related risks to safety and health based on the potential for adverse impact on people or the
and provides a shirt-sleeve environment, so that personal safety environment, business continuity or business reputation. Most
equipment will not be required on a routine basis to protect of the measures selected are similar to those reported by other
employees’ health in laboratory or manufacturing operations. companies and are recommended by the Global Reporting
Initiative, a long-term, multi-stakeholder, international undertaking
EHS management to develop and disseminate globally applicable sustainability
GlaxoSmithKline takes a systematic approach to managing EHS reporting guidelines.
risks and impacts. A framework of information and programmes
based on the global EHSstandards guides the management of Sustainability
key aspects, impacts and risks throughout the organisation. In the work towards eventual sustainability GlaxoSmithKline is
addressing economic, environmental and social issues in research,
EHS audits manufacturing, sales and distribution of our medicines.
As part of its governance responsibility, GlaxoSmithKline conducts Sustainability starts with healthcare solutions found by research
EHS audits of its sites, assessing performance against the EHS and development and continues with sustainable solutions in
standards and assigning quantitative performance scores. In 2004, manufacturing and sales. The Group is currently looking into
33 sites were audited. As part of the continuous improvement improving operational efficiency and in the future will investigate
process, progress was monitored on actions arising from issues the use of renewable resources and the overall balance of its
raised on all audits. impact on society and the environment. The Group seeks dialogue
with external stakeholders and considers their views when
As part of the commitment to corporate social responsibility and
developing our approaches to sustainable development. More
the pro-active management of the GlaxoSmithKline manufacturing
information on EHS programmes and performance may be found
and supply base, 35 of the key contract manufacturers and
on the website.
suppliers were also assessed. This process evaluated the
management of human rights and EHS risks and impacts based
on the Group’s requirements for contract manufacturers.
Recommendations were made for improvements where needed.GlaxoSmithKline 33
Corporate governance
This section discusses GlaxoSmithKline’s management
structures and governance procedures.
It contains the company’s reporting disclosures on corporate
governance required by theCombined Code on Corporate
Governance of the Financial Reporting Council (Combined Code),
including the required statement of compliance.
Further, the company reports on compliance with the
USlaws and regulations that apply to it.
34 The Board
35 Corporate Executive Team
36 Governance and policy
38 Dialogue with shareholders
38 Annual General Meeting
39 Internal control framework
40 Committee reports
41 The Combined Code
41 US lawand regulation34 GlaxoSmithKline Corporate governance
The Board Dr Ronaldo Schmitz (Aged 66)
Appointed on 23rd May 2000
Sir Christopher Gent (Aged 56)
Non-Executive Director. Dr Schmitz was formerly a Non-Executive
Appointed on 1st June 2004
Director of Glaxo Wellcome plc. He is a Non-Executive Director of
Chairman. Sir Christopher wasthe Chief Executive Officer of
Legal & General Group plc and a member of the Board of Directors
Vodafone plc, until his retirement in July2003. He is aNon-
of Rohm and Haas Company and Cabot Corporation.
ExecutiveDirector of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc,aDirector of
the International Advisory Board of Hakluyt &Co,and is a Senior Dr Lucy Shapiro (Aged 64)
Adviser at Bain &Co. Appointed on 23rd May 2000
Non-Executive Director. Dr Shapiro was formerly a Non-Executive
Dr Jean-Pierre Garnier (Aged 57)
Director of SmithKline Beecham plc. She is Ludwig Professor of
Appointed on 23rd May 2000
Cancer Research in the Department of Developmental Biology
Chief Executive Officer.Dr Garnier was appointed an Executive
and Director of the Beckman Center for Molecular and Genetic
Director of SmithKline Beecham plc in 1992, and became Chief
Medicine at the Stanford University School of Medicine and a
Executive Officer in April 2000. He is a Non-Executive Director of
Non-Executive Director of Anacor Pharmaceuticals, Inc. She holds
United Technologies Corporation and a member of the Board of
a PhD in molecular biology from Albert Einstein College of
Trustees of the Eisenhower Exchange Fellowships. He holds a
Medicine.
PhD in pharmacology from the University of Louis Pasteur in
France and an MBA from Stanford University in the USA. Sir Robert Wilson (Aged 61)
Appointed on 1st November 2003
John Coombe (Aged 59)
Non-Executive Director.Sir Robert is Non-Executive Chairman
Appointed on 23rd May 2000. Retiring on 31st March 2005.
of BGGroup plc and the Economist Group and was previously
Chief Financial Officer.Mr Coombe was formerly an Executive
Executive Chairman of Rio Tinto plc.
Director of Glaxo Wellcome plc where he was responsible for
Finance and Investor Relations. He is a member of the Supervisory DrTachiYamada(Aged 59)
Board of Siemens AG and the Code Committee of the UK Appointed on 1st January 2004
Takeover Panelandwas appointed a Non-Executive Director of Chairman, Research &Development. Dr Yamada wasa Non-
HSBC Holdings plcon1st March 2005. Executive Director, and subsequently an Executive Director,
of SmithKline Beecham plc. Prior to joining SmithKline Beecham,
Lawrence Culp (Aged 41)
he was Chairman of the Department of Internal Medicine at the
Appointed on 1st July 2003
University of Michigan Medical School and Physician-in-Chief of
Non-Executive Director. Mr Culp is President and Chief Executive
the University of Michigan Medical Center. He was a member of
Officer of Danaher Corporation. Prior to joining Danaher, he held
the Board of Directors of diaDexus, Inc. until December 2004 and
positions in Accenture, previously Andersen Consulting.
isa Trustee of the Rockefeller Brothers Fund.
Sir Crispin Davis (Aged 55)
Chief Financial Officer Designate
Appointed on 1st July 2003
Julian Heslop (Aged 51)
Non-Executive Director. Sir Crispin is Chief Executive of Reed
Mr Heslop will succeed Mr Coombe as Chief Financial Officer
Elsevier PLC. Prior to that, he was Chief Executive of Aegis Group
with effect from 1st April 2005 whenhe will also join the Board.
plc, which he joined from Guinness plc, where he was a member
Mr Heslop joined Glaxo Wellcomeas Financial Controllerin April
of the main board and Group Managing Director of United
1998. In January 2001, following the merger, he was appointed
Distillers. He spent his early career with Procter &Gamble.
Senior VicePresident, Operations Controller. Prior to joining
Sir Deryck Maughan (Aged 57) GlaxoWellcome,he held senior finance roles at Grand
Appointed on 1st June 2004 Metropolitan PLC.
Non-Executive Director. Sir Deryck was formerly Chairman and
Other Directors
CEO of Citigroup International and of Salomon Brothers Inc. He
Dr Michèle Barzach, Mr Donald McHenry and Mr John McArthur,
serves on the Boards of Directors of Carnegie Hall, Lincoln Center
allNon-Executive Directors, retired from the Board following the
and NYUMedical Center. He is also an International Advisory
conclusion of the AGM on 17th May 2004 and Sir Christopher
Board member of British American Business Inc.and a Board
Hogg (the former Chairman) and Sir Peter Job, both Non-Executive
member ofthe American Academy in Berlin and the Trilateral
Directors, retired from the Board on 31st December 2004.
Commission. He served asVice Chairman of the New York Stock
Exchange from 1996 to 2000.
Details of membership of the Board Committees may be found
Sir Ian Prosser (Aged 61) on page37.
Appointed on 23rd May 2000
Senior IndependentDirector. Sir Ian was formerly a Non-Executive
Director of SmithKline Beecham plc. He was Chairman and Chief
Executive of Bass PLC(latterly Intercontinental Hotels PLC)and
Chairman of the World Travel &Tourism Council. He is
Non-Executive Deputy Chairman of BP plc and a Non-Executive
Director of SaraLee Corporation. He is also a member of the
CBI President’s Committee.Corporate governanceGlaxoSmithKline 35
Corporate Executive Team (CET) David Stout
President,Pharmaceutical Operations
JP Garnier
Mr Stout is responsible for the global pharmaceuticals and vaccines
Chief Executive Officer
businesses. He joined SmithKline Beecham in 1996 as head of its
As Chief Executive Officer, Dr Garnier is responsible for the
US Sales and Marketingand was President, USPharmaceuticals,
management of the Group. He oversees all operational aspects of
until his current appointment in January 2003.
the Group, includingestablishingpolicies, objectives and initiatives,
and he directs long-term strategy. He was formerly Chief Executive Chris Viehbacher
Officer of SmithKline Beecham, having joined the Group in 1990. President,USPharmaceuticals
Mr Viehbacher has been responsible for USPharmaceuticals since
Rupert Bondy
January 2003. He joined Wellcome in 1988 and became Director,
Senior Vice President and General Counsel
Continental Europe at Glaxo Wellcome in 1999. He was
Mr Bondy is responsible for legal matters across the Group,
responsible for GlaxoSmithKline’s European Pharmaceuticals
together with environmental, health and safety issues, insurance
business before his current appointment.
and security. He was a lawyer in private practice before joining
SmithKline Beecham in 1995. Andrew Witty
President,Pharmaceuticals Europe
Ford Calhoun
Mr Witty has been responsible for the Group’s pharmaceuticals
Chief Information Officer
operations in Europe since January 2003. He joined Glaxo in 1985
Dr Calhoun is responsible for information technology, a global
and at GlaxoSmithKline was Senior Vice President, Asia Pacific
function that enables key business processes across all parts of the
until his current appointment.
Group. With doctoral and post-doctoral training in microbiology,
genetics, biomathematics and computer science, he joined Smith TachiYamada
Kline & French in 1984. Chairman,Research & Development
Dr Yamada leads the Group’s complex business of drug discovery
John Coombe
and development,creating new medicines through research. He
Chief Financial Officerretiring on 31st March 2005
joined SmithKline Beecham in 1994 as a Non-Executive member of
As head of the finance function, Mr Coombe is responsible for
the Board and became Chairman, R&D Pharmaceuticals in 1999.
activities such as financial reporting and control, tax and treasury,
He was appointed to the Board of Directors on 1st January 2004.
investor relations, finance systems, internal audit and real estate.
He joined Glaxo in 1986 as Group Financial Controller and was Jennie Younger
appointed Group Finance Director in 1992. Senior Vice President,Corporate Communications &
Community Partnerships
Marc Dunoyer
Mrs Younger is responsible for the Group’s internal and external
President,Pharmaceuticals Japan
communications, its image and partnerships with global
Mr Dunoyer was appointed President, Pharmaceuticals Japan in
communities. She joined Glaxo Wellcome in 1996 as Director
March 2003. He joined the Group in 1999 and was Senior Vice
of Investor Relationsand was appointed to her current position
President and Regional Director, Japan until his current
in 2001. In 2004 she won the European Women of Achievement
appointment.
Award for Business.
Russell Greig
Jack Ziegler
President,Pharmaceuticals International
President,Consumer Healthcare
Dr Greig leads the pharmaceutical operations outside the USA
Mr Ziegler is head of the global Consumer Healthcare business,
and most of Europe, covering more than 100 countries. He joined
which produces oral healthcare, over-the-counter medicines and
the Group in 1980 and was Senior Vice President, Worldwide
nutritional healthcare products. He joined SmithKline Beecham in
Business Development for R&D prior to his current appointment
1991 and in 1998 was appointed President of the Consumer
in March 2003.
Healthcare business.
Dan Phelan
Julian Heslop
Senior Vice President,Human Resources
Chief Financial Officer Designate
Mr Phelan is responsible for benefits, compensation, recruitment,
Mr Heslop will succeed Mr Coombe as Chief Financial Officer
organisation development, leadership development and succession
with effect from 1st April 2005,whenhe will also join the CET.
planning, human resource information systems and employee
health management. He was a lawyer in private practice before Mr Heslop joined GlaxoWellcomeas Financial ControllerinApril
joining Smith Kline &French in 1981 and in 1994 was appointed 1998. Following completion of the merger he was appointed
Senior Vice President and Director, Human Resources, SmithKline Senior Vice President, Operations Controller.
Beecham.
Other members
David Pulman Mr Ingram continues to work part-time as Vice Chairman of
President,Global Manufacturing &Supply Pharmaceuticals, acting as a special advisor to the Group and
Dr Pulman is responsible for theGlobalManufacturing andSupply attendingCET meetings in that capacity.
Organisation and Global Procurement.He joined Glaxo in 1978
and was responsible for the North American supply network,
manufacturing strategy and logistics until his current appointment
in 2002.36 GlaxoSmithKline Corporate governance
Governance and policy Board process
The Board has the authority, and is accountable to shareholders,
The Board and Corporate ExecutiveTeam
for ensuring that the company is appropriately managed and
The Directors are listed under ‘The Board’ (page34).
achieves the strategic objectives it sets. The Board discharges
The Board is responsible for the Group’s system of corporate those responsibilities through an annual programme of meetings
governance and is ultimately accountable for the Group’s activities, which includes the approval of overall budgetary planning and
strategy and financial performance. business strategy.
The Chief Executive Officer(CEO) is responsible for executive The Board reviews the company’s internal controls and risk
management of the Group and is assisted in this by the CET.The management policies and approves its governance structure and
CET meets 11 times per year and otherwise as necessary. The code of ethics. The Board appraises and approves major financing,
members and their responsibilities are listed under “Corporate investment and contractual decisions in excess of defined
Executive Team” (page35). thresholds. In addition to these matters, the Board evaluates and
monitors the performance of the Group as a whole. This includes:
The Board comprises three Executive andeightNon-Executive
Directors. Whilst the Board considers all its Non-Executive Directors • engaging at Board meetings with the CEO, the other Executive
to be independent in character and judgement,it has determined Directors and members of the CET as appropriate, on the
that one Non-Executive Director,Dr Shapiro,should not be financial and operating performance of GlaxoSmithKline and
considered as ’independent’ under the Combined Code.Dr Shapiro external issues material to the Group’s prospects
is not considered to be independent due to the remuneration that
• evaluating progress toward the achievement of the Group’s
she receives from the Groupas a member ofthe GlaxoSmithKline
financial and business objectives and annual plans
Scientific Advisory Board. When Sir Christopher Gentwas
appointed to the Boardas Deputy Chairman,he was determined • monitoring, through reports received directly or from various
by the Board to be independent. Upon taking up the chairmanship committees, thesignificant risks facing the Group.
of the Boardon 1st January 2005,in accordance with the
The Board has overall responsibility for succession planning for
Combined Code,he was excluded from the determination of
the CEO and the other Executive Directors. The Board has given
whether at least half the Board are independent Non-Executive
the CEO broad authority to operate the business of the Group
Directors. Neither Dr Shapironor Sir Christopher Gent hold
and the CEO is accountable for, and reports to the Board on,
positions on a Board Committee where independence is required
business performance.
under the Combined Code.
CET members make regular presentations to the Board on their
The Board considers that Mr Culp, Sir Crispin Davis,Sir Deryck
areas of responsibility and the Board meets with all the CET
Maughan, Sir Ian Prosser, Dr Schmitz and Sir Robert Wilson are
members on an annual basis to discuss collectively the Group’s
independent in accordance with the recommendations of the
strategy. A primary element of the induction process for new
Combined Code.
Non-ExecutiveDirectors is undertaken by members of the CET,
The following directors whoretiredduring the year were not and allNon-ExecutiveDirectors are encouraged to have separate
considered by the Board to be independent in accordance with informal discussions at their discretion with any CETmembers.
the Combined Code: Dr Barzach,because she received
The Board met six times in 2004 with each member attending as
remunerationfrom a Group subsidiary,as a healthcare consultant
follows:
andMr McHenry andSir Christopher Hogg,due to their length
Number of meetings Number of
of service. Mr McArthurand Sir Peter Job,who also retired during Name held whilst a Board member meetings attended
the year,were bothconsidered to be independent. Sir Christopher Gent 3 3
Dr JPGarnier 6 6
At the date of publicationand throughout 2004, a majority of
Mr J Coombe 6 6
the Board members, excluding the Chairman, were independent
Dr T Yamada 6 6
Non-Executive Directors.
Mr L Culp 6 6
Sir Christopher Hogg was Chairman throughout 2004 and Sir Crispin Davis 6 5
retired from the Board on 31st December 2004. In May 2004, Sir Deryck Maughan 3 2
Sir Christopher Gent was appointed Deputy Chairman with effect Sir Ian Prosser 6 6
from 1st June 2004. The Board agreed that Sir Christopher Gent Dr R Schmitz 6 5
would succeed Sir Christopher Hogg as Chairman with effect Dr L Shapiro 6 6
from 1st January 2005. Dr Garnier isCEO. Sir Robert Wilson 6 6
Sir Christopher Hogg 6 6
The Chairman leads the Board, and represents the Board to the
Dr M Barzach 3 3
CEO and other CET members as necessary between Board
Sir Peter Job 6 4
meetings. The CEO manages the Group and implements the
Mr JMcArthur 3 2
strategy and policies adopted by the Board. The Chairman and
Mr D McHenry 3 3
the chairmen of Board Committeescommunicate regularly with
the CEO and other CET members. The division of responsibilities
In addition to the six scheduled meetings referred to above, the
between the role of Chairman and the CEO has been set out in
Board also met on a quorate basis on oneoccasion.
writing, agreed by the Board and appears in full on thewebsite.
Sir Ian Prosser was Senior Independent Director (SID) throughout
2004.Corporate governanceGlaxoSmithKline 37
Independent Advice The Chairman of the company and the CEO are responsible for
The Board recognises that there may be occasions when one or evaluating and making recommendations to the Board on the
more of the Directors feel it is necessary to take independent legal remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors.
and/or financial advice at the company’s expense. There is an
agreed procedure to enable them to do so. The procedure to be Nominations Committee
followed is explained in the Corporate Governance section of the The Nominations Committee reviews the structure, size and
company’s website. composition of the Board and the appointment of members of
the Board and the CET, and makes recommendations to the Board
Company Secretary as appropriate. The Committee also monitors the planning of
The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board and is available succession to the Board and Senior Management. The Committee
to individual Directors in respect of Board procedures. The consists entirely of Non-Executive Directors,of whom a majority
Company Secretary is Simon Bicknell, who was appointed in May are independent,and meets at least once a year to consider
2000. He is a barrister and joined the Group in 1984. He is succession planning and otherwise as necessary. TheNominations
secretary to all the Board Committees. Committee Report is given on page41.
Board Committees Corporate Responsibility Committee
The Board has established a number of Committees and provides The Corporate Responsibility Committee consists entirely of
sufficient resources to enable them to undertake their duties. Non-Executive Directors and provides a Board-level forum for the
Current membership of these Committees is given in the table regular review of external issues that have the potential for serious
below. impact upon the Group’s business and the oversight of reputation
management. The Committee is also responsible for governance
Corporate
Audit Remuneration Nominations Responsibility oversight of the Group’s worldwide donations and community
support. The Committee meets formally three times a year and
Sir Christopher Gent – – C C
has further meetings and consultations asnecessary.
Dr JPGarnier – – – –
Mr J Coombe – – – –
Financial Results Committee
Dr T Yamada – – – –
The Financial Results Committee reviews and approves, on behalf
Mr L Culp – M – –
of the Board, the Annual Report and Form 20-F, the Annual Review
Sir Crispin Davis – M – –
and the convening of the Annual General Meeting, together with
Sir Deryck Maughan M – – –
the preliminary and quarterly statements of trading results. Each
Sir Ian Prosser M – M M
Director is a member of the Committee and the quorum for a
Dr R Schmitz C – M –
meeting is any three members. To be quorate, each meeting must
Dr L Shapiro – – – M
include the Chairman or the Chairman of the Audit Committee
Sir Robert Wilson M C – –
and the CEO or the CFO. The Committee meets as necessary.
Key: C = Chairman. M = Member. In addition, each Director is a member of
the Corporate Administration & Transactions and Financial Results Committees.
Corporate Administration & Transactions Committee
The Corporate Administration & Transactions Committee reviews
The following is a summary of the role and terms of reference of
and approves matters in connection with the administration of
each Committee. The current full terms of reference of each
the Group’s business, andcertain corporate transactions. The
Committee can be obtained from the Company Secretary or the
Committee consists of the Directors, CETmembers and the
Corporate Governance section of the company’s website.
Company Secretary. The Committee meets as necessary.
Audit Committee
Evaluation of the Board, Board Committees and Directors
The Audit Committee reviews the financial and internal reporting
The performance evaluation of the Board, its Committees and
process, the system of internal controls, the management of risks
Directors is normally undertaken by the Chairman and
and the external and internal audit process. The Committee also
implemented in collaboration with the Committee Chairmen and
proposes to shareholders the appointment of the external auditors
with the support of the Company Secretary. Following the
and is directly responsible for their remuneration and oversight of
appointment of Sir Christopher Gent in June 2004as Deputy
their work. The Committee consists entirely of independent
Chairman, it was decided that the Deputy Chairman would
Non-Executive Directors. It meets at least four times a year and
undertake the 2004 performance evaluation of the Board, its
otherwise as necessary. TheAudit Committee Report is given
Committees and Directorsincollaborationwith the Committee
on page40 to 41.
Chairmen and the Company Secretary.
Remuneration Committee The2004 Board evaluation was conducted by wayof a
The Remuneration Committee determines the terms of service questionnaire followed by aprivate discussion between the
and remuneration of the Executive Directors and members of the Deputy Chairman and each of the Directors,including the
CET and, with the assistance of external independent advisors, it Chairman.An external consultant was appointed to assist in
evaluates and makes recommendations to the Board on overall the evaluation of the Audit Committee.
executive remuneration policy. The Committee consists entirely
of independent Non-Executive Directors. It meets at least four
times a year and otherwise as necessary. Information on the
remuneration of Directors is given in the Remuneration Report
on pages43to58.38 GlaxoSmithKline Corporate governance
Dialogue with shareholders In May 2004 the company was authorised to purchase amaximum
of594.6million shares. During 200418.1million shares were
Financial results are announced quarterly.
purchased for cancellation and69.9million were purchased and
The company reports formally to shareholders twice a year, when held asTreasuryShares(see Note27to the Financial statements,
its half-year and full-year results are announced. The full-year ‘Share capital and share premium account’). The exact amount and
results are included in the company’s Annual Report and Annual timing of future purchases, and the extent to which repurchased
Review,which are issued to shareholders. The company’s half-year shares will be held asTreasuryShares rather than being cancelled,
results are published in a national newspaper shortly after they are will be determined by the company and is dependenton market
released. The CEO and CFO give presentations on the full-year conditions and other factors.
results to institutional investors, analysts and the media in London
and in New York. In addition, there are teleconferences after the Donations to Political Organisations and EU Political
release of the first, second and third quarter results for institutional Expenditure
investors, analysts and the media. The Annual Report, Annual At the AGM in May 2001, shareholders first authorised the
Reviewand quarterlyresultsmay also be accessed on the company to make donations to EU Political Organisations and to
company’s website. incur EU Political Expenditure, under the provisions of the Political
Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000, of up to £100,000
The Annual General Meeting(AGM) takes place in London and
each year. This authority has since been renewed annually.
formal notification is sent to shareholders at least one month in
Although the company does notmake and does not intendto
advance. At the Meeting,a business presentation is made to
makesuch payments or donations to political parties, within the
shareholders and all Directors able to attend are available, formally
normal meaning of that expression, the definitionin the legislation
during the Meeting, and informally afterwards, for questions.
of’EU Political Organisation’is wide. Itcan extend to bodies,
Committee Chairmen ordinarily attend the AGM to respond to
which the company and its subsidiaries might wish to support
shareholders’questions. Dr Schmitz, Chairman of the Audit
includingthose concerned with policy review, law reform, the
Committee, was unable to attend the Company’s AGM in May
representation of the business community and special interest
2004 because he was convalescing.Sir Crispin Davis and
groups,such as those concerned with the environment. TheGroup
Mr McArthur were also unable to attend the meeting due to other
made donations to non-EU Political Organisations totalling
commitments. All resolutions at the AGM are decided on a poll
£291,000during 2004(£353,000in 2003). No donations were
as required by the company’s Articles of Association. The results
madetoEU Political Organisations.
of the pollare announced to the London Stock Exchange and
posted on the company’s website. Details of the 2005 AGM are
Annual General Meeting
set out in the section ‘Annual General Meeting’ (see this page).
The AGM will be held at 2.30pm on Wednesday, 25th May 2005
To ensure that the Non-Executive Directors are aware of and
at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary,
understand the views of major shareholders about the company,
Westminster, London SW1P 3EE. The business to be transacted
the Board has in place a process focusing on sector-specific issues,
at the meeting will include:
as well as general shareholder preferences.
The CEO and CFO maintain a dialogue with institutional • Receiving and adopting GlaxoSmithKline's 2004 Annual
shareholders on performance, plans and objectives through a Report
programme of regular meetings. They both speak regularly at
external conferences and presentations. • Approving the 2004 Remuneration Report
The Remuneration Report on pages43to58sets out the
The Group’s Investor Relations department, with offices in London
remuneration policies operated by GlaxoSmithKline and
and Philadelphia, acts as a focal point for contact with investors
disclosures on Directors’ remuneration,including those
throughout the year.
required by the Companies Act 1985 and the Directors’
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee meets with Remuneration Report Regulations 2002. A resolution will
major shareholders to discuss executive remuneration policy. All be proposed to approve the Remuneration Report.
Non-Executive Directors, including new appointees, are available
to meet with major shareholders if this is requested. • Retirement, election and re-election of Directors
Sir Christopher Gent, Sir Deryck Maughan and Mr Heslop,
The company’s website gives access to current financial and
each of whom were appointed Directors since the2004
business information about the Group.
AGM, will offer themselves for election to the Board.
Share buy-back programme Dr Garnier, Sir Ian Prosser, DrSchmitz andDrShapirowill
In October 2002, following the completion of the £4 billion share retire and offerthemselvesfor re-election to the Board
buy-back programme announced in 2001, the company under article 93 of the company’s Articles of Association.
announced plans for a further £4 billion share buy-back
programme. Of this programme, £219million was accounted for • Re-appointment and remuneration of Auditors
in 2002, £980 million in 2003 and £1,000 million in 2004. The Resolutions will be proposed to re-appoint
programme covers purchases by the companyof shares for PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as auditors and to authorise
cancellation or to be held asTreasuryShares, in accordance with the Audit Committee to determine their remuneration.
the authority given by shareholders at the company’s AGM
in 2004.Corporate governanceGlaxoSmithKline 39
• Special business Risk Oversight and Compliance Council (ROCC)
The company will seekauthority to: The ROCC is a council of senior executives authorised by the Board
to assist the Audit Committee oversee the risk management and
• make donations to EU Political Organisations and incur
internal control activities of the Group. Membership comprises
EU Political Expenditure
several CETmembers and some of the heads of departments with
• give the Directors authority to disapply pre-emption rights
internal control, risk management, auditandcompliance
when allotting new shares in connection with rights issues
responsibilities. A direct reporting line to the Audit Committee
or otherwise up to a maximum of five per cent of the
provides a mechanism for bypassing the executive management
current issued share capital
should the need ever arise.
• purchase its own Ordinary Shares up toa maximum of just
under ten per cent of the current issued share capital The ROCC meets on a regular basisto review and assess significant
• amendthecompany’s Articles of Association:to enablethe risks and their mitigation plans. The ROCC, responding to the
company in certain circumstances to meetcosts incurred by Group policy referred to above, has provided the business units
the company associated with resolutions requisitioned by with a framework for risk management and upward reporting
shareholders;to bring theArticles ofAssociation in line with of significant risks. Mitigation planning and identification of a
new legislation regarding the indemnification of directors; manager with overall responsibility for management of any
and to clarify the circumstances in which an ADR holder given risk is a requirement.
can speak at company meetings.
Risk Management and Compliance Boards (RMCBs)
Internal control framework Risk Management and Compliance Boards (RMCBs) have been
established in each of the major business units. Membership often
The Board recognises its responsibility to present a balanced and
comprises members of the senior executive team of the respective
understandable assessment of the Group’s position and prospects.
business unit, augmented by specialists where appropriate. The
The structure of accountability and audit operated in
RMCBs oversee management of all risks that are considered
GlaxoSmithKline is as follows.
important for their respective business units, including those risks
The Board has accountability for reviewing and approving the that are designated as significant to GlaxoSmithKlineas a whole,
adequacy and effectiveness of internal controls operated by the thus increasing the number of risks that are actively managed
company, including financial, operational and compliance controls acrossthe Group.
and risk management. The Board has delegated responsibility for
Each RMCB regularly reports the status regarding its significant
such review to the Audit Committee,which receives reports
risks to the ROCC.
from those individuals identified in the Committee’s Report on
pages 40 to 41.It is the responsibility of management,through Compliancefunctions
the CET,to implement Board policies on risk and control. The CET In a number of risk areas, specific standards that meet or exceed
is responsible for identifying, approving, monitoringand enforcing requirements of applicable law have been established. Specialist
key policies that go to the heart of how the Group conducts audit and compliance groups (for example Corporate Environment,
business. The internal control framework includes central direction, Health&Safety, Global Quality Assuranceand Worldwide
resource allocationand risk management of the key activities of Regulatory Compliance) assist in the dissemination, implementation
research and development, manufacturing, marketing and sales, and audit of these standards.
legal, human resources, information systemsand financial practice.
Corporate Ethics & Compliance (CEC)
As part of this framework, there is a comprehensive planning
The ROCC is also supported by the Corporate Ethics & Compliance
system with an annual budget approved by the Board. The results
department which is responsible for supporting the development
of operating units are reported monthly and compared to the
and implementation of practices that facilitate employees’
budget. Forecasts are prepared regularly during the year.
compliance with laws and Group policy.
Extensive financial controls, procedures, self-assessment exercises
The thrust of the Group’s compliance effort is due diligence in
and riskactivities are reviewed by the Group’s internal auditors.
preventing and detecting misconduct and non-compliance with
Commercial and financial responsibility, however, isclearly
law or regulation by promoting ethical behaviour, compliance with
delegated to local business units, supported by a regional
all laws and regulations, corporate responsibility at all levels, and
management structure. These principles are designed to provide
effective compliance systems.
an environment of central leadership coupled with local operating
autonomy as the framework for the exercise of accountability and The CEC is managed by the Corporate Compliance Officer,who
control within the Group. reports directly to the CEO. The Corporate Compliance Officer
chairs the ROCCand provides summary reports on the ROCC’s
The Group also attaches importance to clear principles and
activities and the Group’s significant risks to the CET and the
procedures designed to achieve appropriate accountability and
AuditCommittee on a regular basis.
control. AGrouppolicy, ‘Risk Management and Legal Compliance’,
mandates that business units establish processesfor managing Areas of potentially significant risk
and monitoringrisks significant to their businesses and the Group. For details of risks affecting the Group, see Note30to the
Financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’ and ‘Risk factors’
The internal control frameworkalsorelies on the following for
on pages76to78.
overseeing and reporting risk and compliance issues.40 GlaxoSmithKline Corporate governance
Effectiveness of controls Accordingly,theBoard has chosen not to nominate any one
The internal control framework has been in operation for the committee member as having recent and relevant financial
whole of the year under review and continues to operate up to experienceas defined by the Combined Code.
the date of approval of this report. The system of internal controls
In arriving at its conclusion,the Board considered the following
is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk ofnot
points. DrSchmitz has been the Chairman of the Committee
achievingbusiness objectives and can only providereasonableand
since April 2001. Prior to his appointment as a Non-Executive
not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Director of the company,he was a Non-Executive Director of
The Audit Committee receivesreports onareas of significant risk to Glaxo Wellcome plc,where he served on the Audit Committee.
the Group and on related internal controls. Following consideration Dr Schmitz has also been a member of the Executive Board of
of these reports, theAudit Committee reports annually to the Directors of Deutsche Bank AG. He retired from that Board in
Board on the effectiveness of controls. Such controls may mitigate 2000 having been in charge of investment banking.Dr Schmitz
but cannot eliminate risks. In addition, there are areas of the was formerly a member of the Executive Board of Directors of
Group’s business where it is necessary to take risks to achieve a BASF from 1980 to 1990, including CFO from 1985 to 1990.
satisfactory return for shareholders, such as investment in R&D He holds an MBA from Insead.Sir Ian Prosser was CFO and later
and in acquiring new products or businesses. In these cases it CEO ofBassPLC and is a member of the Instituteof Chartered
is theGroup’sobjective to apply its expertise in the prudent Accountants in England and Wales. Sir Robert Wilson began his
management rather than elimination of risk.The Directors’ review professional career as an economist. He is Chairman of BGGroup
relates to the company and its subsidiaries and does not extend plc. He held senior management positions at Rio Tinto plc
to material associated undertakings, joint ventures or other culminating in his appointment as Executive Chairman,from
investments. which he retired in 2003.Sir Deryck Maughan was appointed a
member of the Committee on 21st January 2005. He was
The Board, through the Audit Committee, has reviewed the
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Citigroup International
assessment of risks and the internal control framework that
and Vice Chairman of Citigroup Inc.Prior to the creation of
operates in GlaxoSmithKline and has considered the effectiveness
Citigroup, he wasChairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer of
of the system of internal control in operationin the Group for the
Salomon Smith Barney.He was also Chairman and Chief Executive
year covered by this reportand up to the date of its approval by
Officer of Salomon Brothers.Sir Peter Job,who retired from the
the Board.The process followed by the Board in reviewing the
Board on 31st December 2004, was CEO of Reuters plc from
system of internal controls accords with the guidance on internal
1991 to 2001 andbroughtconsiderable industrial experience to
control issued by the Turnbull Committee in 1999.
his role as a member of the Committee.
Committee reports The Committee is supported by the Company Secretary, who
attends the Committee’s meetings, and it has available to it
Audit Committee Report
financial resources to take independent professional advice when
The Audit Committee’s role flows directly from the Board’s
considered necessary. Meetings of the Committee are attended
oversight function and it is authorised by the Board to investigate
by the Chairman, CEO, CFO, General Counsel, Head of Global
any activity within its terms of reference. The Committee has
Internal Audit (GIA), Corporate Compliance Officerand the
written terms of reference which have been approved by the
external auditors.
Board. The Committee reports regularly to the Board on the
performance of the activities it has been assigned. The In 2004,the Committee worked to a structured programme of
Committee’s main responsibilities include reviewing the corporate activities, withstanding items that the Committee is required to
accounting and financial reporting process, monitoring the consider at each meetingtogether with other matters focused to
integrity of the company’s financial statements, evaluating the coincide with key events of the annual financial reporting cycle:
system of internal control and the management of risks,overseeing
• the external auditors reported to the Committee on all critical
activities of eachofthe Group’s compliance audit functionsand
accounting policies and practices used by the company,
overseeingcompliance with laws, regulations and ethical codes
alternative accounting treatments which had been discussed
of practice. The Committee’s oversight role requires it to address
with management and the resultant conclusion by the external
regularly the relationships between management and the internal
auditors, material written communications with management
and external auditors, and understand and monitor the reporting
and any restrictions on access to information
relationships and tiers of accountability between these parties.
The Committee receives regular reports from members of the • the CFO reported on the financial performance of the company
CET and senior managers covering the key compliance activities and on technical financial and accounting matters
of the Group, including those concerning R&D, manufacturing,
• the General Counsel reported on material litigation
sales and marketing and EHS.
• the Company Secretary reported on corporate governance
The Committee is entirely composed of independent Non-Executive
Directors. Committee members bring considerable financial and • the Heads of each of the Group’s compliance and audit groups
accounting experience to the Committee’s work. Members have reported on their auditscope, annual coverage, audit resources
past employment experience in either finance or accounting roles and on the results of audits conducted throughout the year
or comparable experience in corporate activities.
• the Corporate Compliance Officerreported on the activities
The Board has determined that the combined qualifications and undertaken by the ROCC
experience of the Committee members, when taken together with
its modus operandi, givethe Committee collectively the financial
expertise necessary to discharge its responsibilities.Corporate governanceGlaxoSmithKline 41
• the Company Secretary asChairman of the Disclosure When recruiting Non-Executive Directors,the Committee considers
Committeereported on matters that affectedthe quality and the particular skills, knowledge and experience that would benefit
timely disclosure of financial and other material information the Board most significantly for each appointment.Broad selection
to the Board, to the public markets and to shareholders. This criteriaareused which focuson achieving a balance between the
enabled the Committee to review the clarity and completeness representation of UK and US markets, and having individuals with
of the disclosures in the published annual financial statements, CEO experience and skills developed in various sectorsand
interim reports, quarterly and preliminary results specialities.Professional search agencies are engaged specialising
announcements and other formal announcements relating to in the recruitment of high calibre Non-Executive Directors. Dossiers
financial performance prior to their release by the Board. of potential Non-Executive appointeesareprovided to the
Committee and candidatesareshort-listed for interview after
The Audit Committee, management, internal auditorsand the
considering their relevant qualifications.New Non-Executive
full Boardwork together to ensure the quality of the company’s
Directorsoffer themselves for election at the company’snext
corporate accounting and financial reporting. The Committee
AGM. Their appointmentsareannouncedpublicly.
serves as the primary link between the Board and the external
and internal auditors. This facilitates the necessary independence Acustomised induction process was conducted for each of the
from management and encourages the external and internal new Non-Executive Directors focusing on their particular experience
auditors to communicate freely and regularly with the Committee. and taking account of their different backgrounds. This process
In 2004, the Committee met both collectively and separately with included meeting key members of the CET andother senior
the external auditors and the Head of GIA,without members of executives and, in some cases, visiting particular operational
management being present. facilities of the Group.
The Committee has primary responsibility for making a In the case of the appointment of the new CFO,theCommittee
recommendation to shareholders on the appointment, considered the particular skills, knowledge and experience required
reappointment and removal of the external auditors by annually to be the CFO of GlaxoSmithKline. The Committee considered
assessing the qualifications, expertise, resources and independence a number of potential external and internal candidates before
of the external auditors and the effectiveness of the audit process. recommending to the Board to approve the appointment of
Mr Heslop. The Board approved Mr Heslop’s appointment,which
In making its assessment, the Committee considers papers which
was publicly announcedin October 2004. Mr Heslopwill offer
detail the relevant regulatory requirements required of external
himself for election at thecompany’s AGM in May 2005.
auditors and evaluates reports from the external auditors on their
compliance with the requirements. Where the external auditors The Committee metthree timesduring 2004 in full session and
provide non-audit services, the Committee ensures that auditor twiceon a quorate basis. All members were present at the full
objectivity and independence are safeguarded by a policy meetings.
requiring pre-approval by the Audit Committee for such services.
Expenditure on audit and non-audit services is set out on Remuneration Report
page104. The Remuneration Report can be found on pages43to58.
The guidelines set out in the company’s policy on engaging the
The Combined Code
external auditors to provide non-audit servicesinclude ascertaining
that: the skills and experience of the external auditors make them Throughout 2004,the company complied with theCode provisions
a suitable supplier of the non-audit services; adequate safeguards of the Combined Code,except as follows:
are in place so that the objectivity and independence of the audit
• B.1.1 - In designing schemes of performance-related
are not compromised; and the fee levels relative to the annual
remuneration, theRemunerationCommittee should follow
audit fee are within the limits set by the Committee.
the provisions in Schedule A to the Code. Item 6 of
The company also has well-established policies, including a Code Schedule A states that,in general, only basic salary should
of Ethics, which is available onitswebsite, and a help-line facility be pensionable. The company’s position is explainedin the
for the reporting and investigation of unlawful conduct.No Remuneration Report on pages 43 to 58.
waivers to the codewere made in 2004.
• C.3.1 - The Board should satisfy itself that at least one member
The Committee met in full session five times in 2004 and five of theAuditCommittee has recent and relevant financial
times on a quorate basis. Each full session was attended by all experience. The company’s position is explained on page40.
membersexcept Sir Peter Job,who was unable to attend two
• D.2.3 - TheChairman should arrange for theChairmen of the
meetings.
Audit,Remuneration andNominationsCommittees to be
available to answer questions at the AGM and for all directors
Nominations Committee Report
to attend. The company’s position is explained on page38.
The Nominations Committee’s terms of reference include
responsibility for proposing the appointment of Board and
US law and regulation
Committee members. During 2004,the Committee made
recommendations to the Board on the appointment of A number of provisions of US law and regulation apply to
Sir Christopher Gent, Sir Deryck Maughan andMrHeslop. GlaxoSmithKline because the company’s shares are quoted on
the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) in the form of ADSs.
In the case of the Chairman, the Committee focused on
identifying an individual of the calibre and experience required
tochair a complex global organisation.42 GlaxoSmithKline Corporate governance
NYSE rules • based on their knowledge,theffinancial statements and other
In general,the NYSE rules permit the company to followUK financial information fairly present, in all materialrespects, the
corporate governance practices instead of those that apply in the financial condition, results of operations and cash flowsas of
USA,provided that the company explains any significant variations. the dates, andfor the periods,presented inthe Annual Report
This explanation is provided on the company’s website. and Form 20-F
• they are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure
Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002
controls and procedures that ensure that material information
Following a number of corporate and accounting scandals in
is made known to them, have evaluatedthe effectiveness of
the USA, Congress passed the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
these controls and procedures as at theyear end, the results
(Sarbanes-Oxley). Sarbanes-Oxley established newstandards for
of such evaluation being contained in the Annual Reportand
corporate accountability for companies listed in the USA. Although
Form 20-Fand have disclosedin the Annual Report and Form
the company’s corporate governance structure was believed to
20-F any changes ininternalcontrols over financial reporting
be robust and in line with best practice, certain changes were
during the period covered by the Annual Report and Form 20-F
necessary to ensure compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley.
that havematerially affected,or are reasonably likely toaffect
As recommended by the Securities and Exchange Commission materially,the company’s internal controlover financial
(SEC), GlaxoSmithKline established a Disclosure Committee. The reporting
Committee reports to the CEO, the CFO and to the Audit
• they have disclosed,based ontheirmost recentevaluation of
Committee. It is chaired by the Company Secretary and the
internal control over financial reporting, to the external auditors
members consist of senior managers from finance, legal,
and the Audit Committee all significant deficiencies and
compliance, corporate communications and investor relations.
material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal
External legal counsel and the external auditors are invited to control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
attend its meetingsperiodically. It has responsibility for considering affect adversely the company’s ability to record, process,
the materiality of information and,on a timely basis, determining summarise and report financial informationand any fraud
the disclosure and treatment of that information. It also has (regardless of materiality) involving persons that have a
responsibility for the timely filing of reports with the SEC and the significant role in the company’s internal control over financial
formal review of the Annual Report and Form 20-F. In 2004,the reporting.
Committee meteighttimes.
The CEO and CFO have completed these certifications,which will
Sarbanes-Oxley requires that the Annual Report contains a be filed with the SEC as part of the Group’s Form 20-F.
statement as to whether a member of the company’s Audit
Committee is an audit committee financial expert. Controls and procedures
The Group carried out an evaluation under the supervision and
The Board has reviewed the qualifications and backgrounds of
with the participation,of the Group’s management, including the
the members of the Audit Committee and determined that,
CEO and CFO, of the effectiveness of the design and operation
although no one member of the Company’s Audit Committee is
of the Group’s disclosure controls and proceduresas at
an audit committee financial expert, the combined qualifications
31st December 2004. There are inherent limitations to the
and experience of the Audit Committee members, when taken
effectiveness of any system of disclosure controls and procedures,
together with its modus operandi, give the Audit Committee
including the possibility of human error and the circumvention
collectively the financial expertise necessary to discharge its
or overriding of the controls and procedures.
responsibilities. For an explanation of the basis for the Board’s
judgement, refer to page40. Accordingly, even effective disclosure controls and procedures can
only provide reasonable assurance of achieving their control
For accounting periods ending on or after 15thJuly2005,
objectives. Based upon the Group’s evaluation, the CEO and CFO
Sarbanes-Oxley requires that the company’sForm 20-Fcontain a
have concluded that,as at31st December 2004,the disclosure
report stating the responsibility of management for establishing
controls and procedureswereeffective to provide reasonable
and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting
assurance that information required to be disclosed in the reports
and assessing the effectiveness of the company’s internal control
the Group files and submits under the US Securities Exchange Act
over financial reporting. Although the company is not required to
of 1934, as amended, is recorded, processed, summarised and
report compliance in its 2004Form 20-F,management has
reported as and when required.
undertaken a process to ensure that it will be in a position to
report compliance by the due date. There have been nochanges in the Group’s internal control over
financial reporting during2004that have materially affected,or
Sarbanes-Oxley also introduced a requirement for the CEO and
are reasonably likely to affect materially,the Group’s internal
the CFO to complete formal certifications, confirming that:
control over financial reporting.
• they have each reviewed the Annual Report and Form 20-F
• based on their knowledge,it contains no material
misstatements or omissionsGlaxoSmithKline 43
Remuneration Report
The RemunerationReport sets out the remuneration policies
operated by GlaxoSmithKline in respect of the Directors and
Corporate Executive Team (CET) members, together with
disclosures on Directors’ remuneration including those required
by The Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 (the
Regulations). In accordance with the Regulations, the following
sections of the RemunerationReport are subject to audit: Annual
remuneration; Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration; Share
options; Incentive plans;performance criteria onPerformance
Share Plansand share options; andPensions. The remaining
sections are not subject to audit;neither are the pages referred to
from within the auditedsections.
ThisReport is submitted to shareholders by the Board for approval
at the Annual General Meeting, as referenced in thenoticeof
Annual General Meeting.
Throughout the RemunerationReport the Executive Directors and
CETmembers are referred to as the ‘Executives’.
References to GlaxoSmithKline shares and ADSs mean, respectively,
Ordinary Shares of GlaxoSmithKline plc of 25p and American
Depository Shares of GlaxoSmithKline plc. Each ADS represents
two GlaxoSmithKline shares.
44 Introduction
44 Remuneration policy
47 Executive Director terms, conditions and remuneration
48 Non-Executive Directorterms, conditions and fees
49 Directors and Senior Managementremuneration
50 Annualremuneration
51 Non-Executive Directors’remuneration
53 Directors’ interests
54 Share options
55 Incentive plans
57 Pensions
58 Directors and Senior Management
58 Directors’ interests in contracts44 GlaxoSmithKline RemunerationReport
Remuneration Report
Introduction Remuneration policy
The Remuneration Committee (or ‘Committee’) is responsible for Principles
making recommendations to the Board on the company’s Thefourcore principles which underpin the remuneration policy
remuneration policy and, within the terms of the agreed policy, for GlaxoSmithKline are:
determining the total individual remuneration packages of the
• securing outstanding executive talent
Executives.
• pay for performance and only for performance
The remuneration policy set out in this report was finalised after • robust and transparent governance structures
undertaking an extensive consultation process with shareholders • a commitment to be a leader of good remuneration practice
and institutional bodies during the course of 2003 and 2004. in the pharmaceutical industry.
GlaxoSmithKline’s remuneration policy is designed to establish a In formulating the policy, the Committee also decided that:
framework for remunerationthatis consistent with the company’s
• the remuneration structure must support the needs of the
scale and scope of operations and meetsthe recruitment needs of
businessin a very competitive market place
the business and is closely aligned with UK shareholder guidelines.
• UK shareholder guidelines willbe followed to the maximum
As at 31st December 2004, the company was thesecondlargest
extent consistent with the needs of the business and the
pharmaceutical company in the world by revenue, with operations
company would maintain a regular dialogue with shareholders
in five continentswith products sold in over125countries and
• global pharmaceutical companies are the primary pay
with around 50 per cent of sales being generated in the USA.
comparator group
• performance conditions would be based on the measurable
Remuneration Committee
delivery of strong financial performance and the delivery of
The composition of the Committee changed during the year.
superior returns to shareholders as compared with other
Mr McArthur retired from the Board in May 2004 and
pharmaceutical companies
Sir Robert Wilson was appointed Chairman of the Committee.
• a high proportion of the total remuneration opportunity will
The other members of the Committee were Sir Crispin Davis,
be based on performance-related remuneration which will be
Sir Peter Job and Mr Culp. The Board deemed all of the members
delivered over the medium tolong term
of the Committee to be independent Non-Executive Directors in
• remuneration would be determined using the projected value
accordance with the Combined Code.
method (see explanation below)
The Committee metseventimes during 2004 with each member • one remuneration structure for Executive Directors and the
attending as follows: CET, in particular, the same performance conditions, will apply
equally to their long-term incentive awards
Number of meetings Number of meetings
held whilst a attended by • no ex-gratia payments willbe made
Name Committee member Committee member
• pay structures would be as simple as is consistent with the
Sir Robert Wilson 7 7 business needs.
(Chairman from17th May 2004)
Overall,the policy is intended to provide median total
MrLCulp 7 6
remuneration for median performance. Poor performance will
Sir Crispin Davis 7 7
result in total remuneration significantly below the pay comparator
Mr J McArthur 2 2
group median, with the opportunity to earn upper quartile total
(Chairman until17th May 2004)
remuneration for exceptional performance.
Sir Peter Job(retired 31st Dec 2004) 7 5
This strong alignment with performance is demonstrably in the
Onequorate meetingwasheld toapprovethe formal grant of interests of shareholders and provides the Executives with
share options and performance share awards to give effect to the unambiguous signals about the importance of delivering success
Committee’s decisions. to the company’s shareholders.
With the exception of the Company Secretary, no employees of
Commitment
the company were involved in the conduct of Committee
The Committee will apply this policy on a consistent and
meetings. Dr Garnier (CEO) and the Senior Vice President, Human
transparent basis. Any significant changes in the measures used
Resources, were invited to attend part of some meetings of the
to assess performance will be discussed with shareholders. In the
Committee as required.
use of comparators for pay benchmarking, the Committee will
Deloitte &Touche LLP(Deloitte) have been appointed by the use its discretion to ensure that remuneration levels are reasonable,
Committee to provide it with independent adviceon executive and if it believes that changes may cause concern amongst
remuneration. shareholders, the position will be discussed with shareholders
prior to implementation.
Deloitte provided other consulting services to GlaxoSmithKline
during the year, but did not provide advice on Executive
remuneration matters other than to the Committee.
Towers Perrinprovides market data and data analysisto
the Committee.Remuneration ReportGlaxoSmithKline 45
Pay and performance comparators Individual elements of remuneration
The following table sets out the companies used for pay and The balance between the fixed (base salary) and variable (annual
performance comparison: bonus and long-term incentive) elements of remuneration changes
Market Cap
with performance. The chart below shows the anticipated normal
31.12.04
Company Country £m range of the mix between fixed and variable payat differentlevels
Abbott Laboratories USA 37,840 of performance for the CEO and the typical case for the other
AstraZeneca UK 31,075 Executive Directors(“ED”).In some years, the ranges may be
Bristol-Myers Squibb USA 25,962 higher or lower depending on theperformance of thecompany
Eli Lilly USA 33,448 andtheindividual. The number of shares subject to the long-term
GlaxoSmithKline UK 71,704 incentive awards for the Executive Directors was unchanged from
Johnson &Johnson USA 98,028 2003.
Merck USA 37,123
Novartis Switzerland 70,077 CEO 5%-40% 15%-20% 40%-80%
ED 10%-50% 20%-25% 25%-70%
Pfizer USA 105,473 100 %
Roche Holdings Switzerland 42,122
Sanofi-Aventis France 57,954
Schering-Plough USA 16,016
Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Japan 23,323 Base salary Annual bonus Long-term incentives
Wyeth USA 29,596
Base salary
The merger of Aventis and Sanofi-Synthelabo during 2004 reduced Base salaries are set by reference to the median for the relevant
the size of the comparator group to 13 companies and market. For Executives this is the pharmaceutical pay comparator
GlaxoSmithKline.TheCommittee subsequently determined that group. Actual salary levels are reviewed annually and may vary
for a number of reasons, including focus of operation and market depending on an Executive’s experience, responsibility and market
capitalisation, there was no other suitable company to add to value. Any changes usually take effect from 1st April.Base salaries
the group. for Dr Garnier and Dr Yamada were not changed during 2004.
Mr Coombe’s base salary was increased bythreeper cent during
Benchmarking
2004. Dr Garnier received$1,522,500,Mr Coombe £509,850
For benchmarking purposes,total remuneration incorporates base
andDr Yamada $725,000.
salary, annual bonus and long-term incentives. When setting pay
the Committee has due regard to the Executives’ pension
Annual bonus
arrangements.
All bonuses are determined on the basis of a formal review of
The global pharmaceutical industry is used as the primary pay annual performance against stretching financial targets based on
comparator for the Executives as it is the appropriate marketplace profit before interest and tax and are subject to detailed
for the company’s most senior executive talent. In the first instance, assessment of individual, business unit and group achievements
pay is benchmarked to publicly available remuneration data for against objectives. No bonus is payable if financial performance is
these companies. less than 96 per cent of the target performance. The individual
performance against objectives can increaseordecrease the bonus
To provide context to the above information, reference is made
level by a factor which can range from zeroto 1.5. Bonuses are
to the Towers Perrin annual global pharmaceutical pay survey for
subject to upper limits, which for the Executives other than the
the Pharmaceutical Human Resources Association (PHRA). To
CEO,range between 100 per cent and 200 per cent of base salary.
ensure that the global pharmaceutical industry benchmark is
The CEO’s limit is 200 per cent.
subject to scrutiny and review, the Committee also considers pay
data from other global businesses primarily in the consumer and An annual bonus paid on the basis of on-target business
the manufacturing sectors. performance together with base salary provides annual cash in
line with the median of the pay comparator group.
Prior to determining the annual long-term incentive opportunity,
the Committee considers a range of vesting levels that may be In the case of the CEOthe bonus targets are set by the Board.
achieved based on different assumptions such as share price Following the end of the financial year, the Committee reviews
growth, performance levels etc. For performance in line with the CEO’s performance and determines the bonus payable, which
expectations, total remuneration is targeted at the median of the is then recommended to the Board for approval. The CEO makes
comparator group and the long-term incentive opportunity is set recommendations to the Committee regarding the performance
in a way which provides for positioning of total remuneration at level achieved against objectives for the other Executives. These
the median. recommendations are then considered by the Committee to
determine the resultant bonus.
To ensure that a stable benchmark is developed and to reduce
the impact of short-term fluctuations, incentive policies for other Executives can also choose to invest their bonus in GlaxoSmithKline
global pharmaceutical companies are assessed over a number of shares for a minimum of three years under the Annual Investment
years. Planor the equivalent USplan. At the end of the three-year
holding period,Executives are entitled to a matching award of
Valuation method 10 per cent of their deferred shareholding. The match is not
The projected value method is used to benchmark total subject to further performance conditions. This plan is open to
remuneration. This method projects the future value of the approximately 700 senior executives on the same terms. The
remuneration package under different performance scenarios Committee believes that these arrangements encourage
whilst moderating the impact of market fluctuations in theshort shareholding amongst senior executives and considers it
term and strengthening the focus on performance. appropriate for the Executives to participate onthe same terms.46 GlaxoSmithKline RemunerationReport
In setting bonus awards for 2004, the Committee took into TSR rank with 13companies & Percentage of
account the achievement of management in maintaining growth GlaxoSmithKline award vesting*
on a CER basis, whilst absorbing £1.5 billion oflost sales to
1 100%
generics.
2 100%
3 87%
Long-term incentives 4 74%
Executives are eligible for performance share awards and share
5 61%
options. The remuneration policy provides that annual long-term
6 48%
incentive awards will normally be made up of a performance share
7 35%
award and a share option award.
Below 7 0%
The Committee considers that performance shares provide a
* TSR is measured on a pro-rata basis. Where GlaxoSmithKline’s
stronger alignment to shareholder value,and thereforethe
performance falls between two of the comparators, the level of vesting
remuneration policy places greater emphasis on the use of
will be determined by the actual relative level of TSR rather than simple
performance shares. Long-term incentive awards are determined ranking.
such that for on-target performance more than half of the
To provide a closer link between shareholder returns and payments
long-term incentive reward is derived from performance shares.
to the Executives, notional dividends are reinvested and paid out
The grant of annual awards using more than one plan is consistent in proportion to the vesting of the award. The receipt of dividends
with the practice of the pay comparator group and other leading has been incorporated into the benchmarking of award levels. In
UKcompanies. Long-term incentives for the CETare provided addition, performance shares earned by the Executives cannot be
on the same basis asthe Executive Directors. sold, except to meet related tax liabilities, for a further two years
following the end of the vesting period. The Committee believes
Performance share awards and share options are delivered to US
that this further aligns the interests of the Executives with the
resident executives in the form of ADSs. Awards are delivered
long-term interests of shareholders.
in the form of Ordinary Shares to executives resident in the UK
and other countries. All awards are made under plans which The vesting table for the performance share awards granted in
incorporate dilution limits consistent with the guidelines provided December 2003, with the performance period 1st January 2004
by the Association of British Insurers, the National Association to 31st December 2006, is given on page56.
of Pension Funds and other shareholder representative bodies.
Current estimated dilution from existing awards under all b) Share options
GlaxoSmithKline employee share schemes made since the merger Share options allow a holder to buy shares at a future date at
is approximatelyfiveper cent of the company’s share capital at the share price prevailing at the time of grant. Share options are
31st December 2004. granted to more than12,000managers at GlaxoSmithKline,
including the Executives. The share options granted in 2004 to
a) Performance shares the Executives were linked to the achievement of compound
For the Executives, the level of performance shares vesting is based annualEPS growth over the performance period.
on the company’s Total Shareholder Return (TSR)relative to the
The Committeeconsideredthat EPS was the key measure of the
performance comparator group (see page45) over a three-year
performance of the business and was also fully reflected through
measurement period. TSRwas chosen as the most appropriate
the business measures extended throughout the Group, ensuring
comparative measure since it focuses on the return to
organisational alignment.
shareholders, is a well-understood and tested mechanism to
measure performance, and allows comparison between companies When setting EPS targets,the Committee considers the company’s
operating in different countries. internal projections and analysts’ forecasts for GlaxoSmithKline’s
EPS performance,as well as analysts’ forecasts for the
TSR is measured in sterling over the performance period and
pharmaceutical industry.
represents the change in the value of a share together with the
value of reinvested dividends paid. In order to remove the impact The following key principles govern the use of EPS as a
of the varying tax treatments of dividends in different jurisdictions, performance measure:
all dividends are reinvested gross.
• adjustments will only be considered for major items
In respect of the performance share awards granted in December • adjustments will be for the judgement of the Committee
2004, with the performance period 1st January 2005to • the purpose of the adjustments is to ensure that the
31stDecember 2007, if GlaxoSmithKline is ranked at position performance measurement is fair and reasonable to both
seven(the mid-point)of the performance comparator group, participants and shareholders
35 per cent of the shares will vest.Any ranking below this point • any discretion exercised by the Committee will be disclosed to
will result in no shares vesting.Only if GlaxoSmithKline is one of shareholders in the Annual Report.
the top two companies will all of the shares vest. When
The Committee will set out the basis of its decision if it considers
determining vesting levels, the Committee has regard for the
it appropriate to make any adjustment.
company’s underlying financial performance.
For the 2004 grant, vesting increases on a straight-line basis for
EPS performance between the hurdles set out in the tableon the
following page.RemunerationReportGlaxoSmithKline 47
Annualised Percentage of The Sharesave plan and the ShareReward plan are Inland Revenue-
growth in EPS award vesting approved plans open to all UK employees on the same terms.
Mr Coombe is a member of the Sharesave plan, into which he
> RPI+ 5% 100%
contributes £250a month. This provides him with the option to
RPI+4% 75%
buy shares at the end of the three-year savings period in line
RPI+3% 50%
with the opportunity available to all UK employees.
< RPI + 3% 0%
Mr Coombe also contributes £125per month to buy shares
This performance condition is substantially consistent with UK
under the ShareReward plan. The company matches the number
shareholder guidelines and expectations and isdemanding when
of shares bought each month.
compared with thoseoperated by other global pharmaceutical
companies. This is consistent with the policy of providing pay for The Executives also receive other benefits including healthcare
performance and only for performance. (medical and dental), personal financial adviceandlife assurance.
The cash value of the benefits received by the Executive Directors
Performance is measured over the three financial years following
in 2004 is shown on page50.
the grant of an option. The Committee has decided for the 2004
grant that there will be no performance retesting, so if the
Executive Director terms, conditions and remuneration
performance condition is not metafter the three-year period,the
option will lapse. Executive Director contracts
The policy regarding the Executive Directors’ contracts was the
Pensions subject of extensive review and change during 2003. Thepolicy
The Executives participate in GlaxoSmithKline senior executive provides the framework for contracts for Executive Directors
pension plans. The pension arrangements are structured in appointed in the future.
accordance with the plans operated for Executives in the country
The key aspects of GlaxoSmithKline’s contractual framework are:
in which the Executives are likely to retire. Benefits are normally
payable at age 60. Details of individual arrangements for the Aspect Policy
Executive Directors are set out on page57.In response to the Notice period on 12 calendar months
future pensions regimein the UK, the Committee will carefully termination by the
consider the impact of the change in legislation and will decide employing company
how best to move forward when regulation is clearer and a market or executive
consensus emerges with a view to implementation in April 2006.
Termination payment - 1x annual salary and
1x annual ’on-target’ bonus 1
Share ownership requirements
- No mitigation required 2
To align the interests of executives with those of shareholders,
executives are required to maintain significant holdings of shares Benefits Governed by benefits policy,
in GlaxoSmithKline. These requirements are an important part of including:
aligning the interests of executives with shareholders. The CEO is - healthcare (medical and dental)
required to hold shares to the value of four times base salary. - personal financial advice
Other Executive Directors are required to build a shareholding to - life assurance contributions
the value of three times base salary. Members of the CET are Vesting of long-term Rules of relevant equity incentive
required to build a shareholding to a value of two times base incentives plan 3
salary.The other top 700 executives in the Groupare required
Pension Based on existing arrangements and
to build a shareholding to a value of one times base salary.
terms of the relevant pension plan
Executives are required to continue to satisfy these shareholding
Non-compete clause 12 months from termination
requirements for a minimum of twelve months following
notice date 2
retirement from the company.
In order for shares to qualify for these share ownership 1 Dr Garnier’s target bonus is 100 per cent of salary, Mr Coombe’s is 85 per cent of
salary and Dr Yamada’s is85per cent of salary.
requirements they must be held personally by the Executiveor
2 The imposition of a 12-month non-compete period on the Executives is considered
their spouse or minor childrenor have been earned but deferred vitally important by the company in order to protect the Group’s intellectual
under one of the share programmes operated by the company. property. In light of the non-compete clause and competitor practice, the
Committee believes that it would not be appropriate to provide for mitigation in
Unexercised share options are not included in this calculation.As
the contracts. When reviewing the level of severance payments, the Committee
at 31st December 2004,Dr Garnier’s shareholding was403,083 considered investor and DTI guidance. However, it determined that in line with
ADSs, Mr Coombe’s was186,652ordinary shares and Dr Yamada’s competitive practice it is appropriate to provide for the payment of salary and
was60,923ADSs. These holdings were in excess of the share target bonus on termination.
3 As approved by shareholders of GlaxoSmithKline, Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline
ownership requirements.
Beecham, as appropriate.
Other remuneration elements Dr Garnier, Mr Coombe and Dr Yamada agreed to changes in their
The Executives participate in various legacy Glaxo Wellcome and previous contractual terms without compensation to come broadly
SmithKline Beecham all-employee share plans in either the UK or in line with the new contractual framework, including the
the USA and in the GlaxoSmithKline plans that replaced them. reduction of contractual notice period from 24 to 12 calendar
months. However, in order to honour certain aspects of their ‘old’
contractual terms,there are a number of individual features which
have been retained.48 GlaxoSmithKline RemunerationReport
In Dr Garnier’s case these include the entitlement to In 2000 all benefits accrued under the Glaxo Wellcome UK pension
reimbursement of excise tax on change of control related arrangements were augmented by the Trustees of the plans by five
payments, life insurance benefit funded by the company to age65 per cent to reflect a distribution of surplus. This augmentation will
and the following provisions relating to the vesting oflong-term apply to that element ofMr Coombe’s pension earnings before
incentives: 31st March 2000.
• Pre-2003 awards
Other entitlements
On termination by the company (other than for cause), on
In addition to the contractual provisions outlined above, in the
retirement or on resignation for ‘good reason’ (i.e. resignation
event that Dr Garnier, Dr Yamada or Mr Coombe’s service
due to not being elected or retained as a director of the
agreements are terminated by their employing company,the
company or any merged company, or as a result of a change
following would apply:
of control provided that such resignation occurs on or within
30 days of the first anniversary of the change in control), • in the case of awards under the GlaxoSmithKline Annual
options will vest in full and remain exercisable for the full Investment Plan, provided that their agreement is terminated
option term and performance shares will vest at the end of other than for cause, any deferred amount,any incomeand
the performance period subject to performance but not gains, are automatically distributed as soon as administratively
time-apportioned. practicable after termination. If they resign, retire or the
termination is for cause,then any deferredamount is not
• 2003 and thereafter
distributed until the end of the minimumthree-year deferral
The above provisions apply but options will be subject to
period
performance testing in all circumstances and any options or
performance share awards made 12 months prior to the • in line with the policy applicable to US senior executives,
termination notice date will lapse. Dr Garnier and Dr Yamada are entitled to receive continuing
medical and dental insurance
Mr Coombe remains entitled on termination to the cash equivalent
of 12 months benefits and continuing medical and dental • following the merger, those participants in the legacy share
insurance. option schemes who elected to exchange their legacy options
for options over GlaxoSmithKline shares will receive an
In addition,the current Executive Directorsareentitled to receive
additional cash benefit equal to 10 per cent of the grant price
one year’s worth of pension contributions on termination.
of the original option. This additional benefit is triggered when
Dr Garnier’s and Mr Coombe’s contracts were executed on the new option is exercised or lapses. To qualify for this
3rd March 2004 and took effect from 1st January 2004. additional cash benefit,participants had to retain their options
Dr Garnier’s contract will expire on 31st October 2007 and until at least the second anniversary of the effective date of
Mr Coombe’s on 31st March 2005, being the last day of the the merger.
monthin which they reach their 60th birthday. Dr Yamada’s
contract was executed on 27th July 2004 and took effect from Outside appointments for Executive Directors
1st January 2004 and expires on30th June 2007being the last Any outside appointments must be approved by the Chairman on
day of the monthin which he reaches his 62nd birthday. behalf of the Board. It isthe company’s policy that remuneration
earned from such appointments may be kept by the individual
No termination payments will be made in respect of any part of
Executive Director.
a notice period extending beyond the contract expiry dates.
Non-Executive Directorterms, conditions and fees
Individual pensionarrangements
The UK plan provides for a pension based on two-thirds of final Non-Executive Directors of GlaxoSmithKline do not have service
salary at age 60. The US cash balance plan provides for an annual contracts but instead have letters of appointment. The company
contribution and interest on the sum accumulated in the cash aims to provide Non-Executive Directors with fees that are
balance plan but with no contractual promise to provide specific competitive with other companies of equivalent size and
levels of retirement income. complexity. During the year the Chairman (then Sir Christopher
Hogg) and the CEO recommended, and the Board approved,
GlaxoSmithKline makes annual contributions of 15 per cent of
a new fee structure effective from 1st October 2004 for the
Dr Garnier’s annual salary and bonus and 18 per cent of
Non-Executive Directors as follows:
Dr Yamada’s annual salary and bonus. The fund increases at an
interest rate based on the yield on 30-year treasury bonds. The • a standard fee of £60,000 per annum
company has no liability beyond making these annual
• supplemental fees as follows:
contributions.
- £30,000 per annum for the SID and Audit Committee
Prior to 1999 all US-employees, including Dr Garnier and Chairman
Dr Yamada, were moved from a final salary pension arrangement - £20,000 per annum for the Chairman of the Remuneration
to the current cash balance structure. For all employees in the US, and the Corporate ResponsibilityCommittees
cash balance plan contributions are based on combined annual - £5,000 per meeting for each Non-Executive Director
salary and annual bonus. undertaking intercontinental travelto the meetings
Mr Coombe participates in the Glaxo Wellcome defined benefit • fees that are paid in US dollars are converted at a rate of
plan. On retirement at age 60, he is entitled to receive an annual £1/US$1.8162being the exchange rate that applied when
pension oftwo-thirdsof his final salary, a two-thirdswidow’s the newfee arrangements were approved.
pension and inflation proofing.
The fee arrangements for Sir Christopher Gent are described
on page49.RemunerationReportGlaxoSmithKline 49
To enhance the link between Directors and shareholders and as The following table shows the date of the letter of appointment
set out in the table below, GlaxoSmithKline requires Non-Executive and where applicable thedate of leaving the Board:
Directors to receive a significant part of their fees in the form of
Non-Executive Date of letter
shares. With effect from 1st October 2004,at least 25 per cent of
Director of appointment Date of leaving
the Non-Executive Directors’ total fees are paid in the form of
MrLCulp 09.06.03 –
shares and allocated to a share account. The Non-Executive
Sir Crispin Davis 09.06.03 –
Directors may also take the opportunity to invest part or all of the
Sir Deryck Maughan 26.05.04 –
balance of their fees into the same share account.
Sir Ian Prosser 19.06.00 –
Prior to 1st October 2004, the Non-Executive Directors were Dr RSchmitz 19.06.00 –
allocated a number of shares, dependent on their position, as Dr LShaprio 19.06.00 –
part of theirfees and could elect to invest part or all the balance Sir Robert Wilson 09.06.03 –
offees in a share account. These shares are not paid out until the Dr M Barzach 19.06.00 17.05.04
Director’s retirement from the Board, or at a later date, and are Sir Peter Job 19.06.00 31.12.04
paid on the basis of dividends reinvested in the interim. Mr J McArthur 19.06.00 17.05.04
Mr D McHenry 19.06.00 17.05.04
The fee arrangements prior to 1st October 2004 were as follows:
Chairman TSRperformance graph
Board of a Board Deputy
The following graph sets out the performance of the company
member Committee Chairman Chairman
relative to the FTSE 100 index of which the company is a
Cash fees £45,000 £55,000 £80,000 £300,000
constituent and to the performance comparator group since the
($72,000) ($88,000)
merger on 27th December 2000. The graph has been prepared in
Percentage of cash
fees which may be 100% 50% accordance with the Regulations and is not an indication of the
taken as shares likely vesting of awards granted under any of the company’s
Maximum share £45,000 £55,000 £40,000 £150,000 incentive plans.
election ($72,000) ($88,000)
Automatic share 1,000 Ordinary shares 3,000 6,000 100
allocation (or 500 ADSs) Ordinary Ordinary
shares shares 90
(or 1,500 (or 3,000
ADSs) ADSs) 80
70
Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to compensation if their
appointment is terminated. 60
31/12/00 31/12/01 31/12/02 31/12/03 31 /12/04
GlaxoSmithKline Total Return TSEF100 Total Return Index
Chairman
GlaxoSmithKline Pharma Peers Return Index
Sir Christopher Hogg retired as Chairman with effect from
31st December 2004. Sir Christopher Hogg’s letter of appointment
Directors and Senior Managementremuneration
to the Board was dated 19th June 2000 and was amended on
1st September 2002 to record his appointment asChairman with The following tables set out for the Directors of GlaxoSmithKline
effect from 20th May 2002. Sir Christopher Gent’s letter of plc the remuneration earned in 2004; their interests in shares of
appointment to the Board was dated 26th May 2004, underwhich GlaxoSmithKline plc; their interests in share options and incentive
it was agreed that he serve the company asDeputy Chairman plans and their pension benefits. The members of the CET and
until 31st December 2004 and from 1st January 2005 asChairman the Company Secretary, known as the Senior Management, also
until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting following the participate in the same remuneration plans as the Executive
third anniversary of his appointment. This may be extended for Directors and the aggregate remuneration and interests of the
a further term of three years by mutual agreement.He received Directors and Senior Management are also provided.
fees at the rate of £240,000 per annum plus an allocation of
GlaxoSmithKlineshares to the value of £60,000 per annum whilst
Deputy Chairman and receives £400,000 per annum plus an
allocation of GlaxoSmithKlineshares to the value of £100,000
per annum as Chairman.
Other Non-Executive Directors
On appointment, each Non-Executive Director is provided with a
letter of appointment under which it is agreed that they serve the
company as a Non-Executive Director until the conclusion of the
Annual GeneralMeeting following the third anniversary of their
appointment. In each case this can be extended for a further term
of three years by mutual agreement. No directors serve a term
longer than three years without offering themselves for re-election
by the shareholders.50 GlaxoSmithKline RemunerationReport
Annual remuneration
2004 2003
Total Total
Fees and Other Annual annual Fees and Other Annual annual
salary benefits bonus remuneration salary benefits bonus remuneration
Footnote 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000
Executive Directors
Dr JP Garnier a,b,c $1,523 $786 $2,250 $4,559 $1,502 $633 $2,435 $4,570
Dr T Yamada b,c $725 $577 $1,001 $2,303 – – – –
Mr JCoombe b,c,d £506 £9 – £515 £490 £17 £730 £1,237
Total Executive Directors £1,734 £754 £1,777 £4,265 £1,406 £403 £2,215 £4,024
Current Non-Executive Directors
MrL Culp $97 – – $97 $48 – – $48
Sir Deryck Maughan $57 – – $57 – – – –
Dr L Shapiro e $182 – – $182 $179 – – $179
Sir Christopher Gent £175 – – £175 – – – –
Sir CrispinDavis £57 – – £57 £29 – – £29
Sir Ian Prosser £65 – – £65 £66 – – £66
Dr R Schmitz £72 – – £72 £67 – – £67
Sir Robert Wilson £66 – – £66 £10 – – £10
Total Current Non-ExecutiveDirectors £618 – – £618 £310 – – £310
Former Non-Executive Directors
Mr J McArthur $42 $18 – $60 $102 – – $102
Mr D McHenry $42 – – $42 $106 – – $106
Mr PAllaire – – – – £28 – – £28
Dr M Barzach f £78 – – £78 £107 – – £107
Sir Christopher Hogg £369 £1 – £370 £374 – – £374
Sir Roger Hurn – – – – £50 – – £50
Sir Peter Job £57 – – £57 £57 – – £57
Sir Richard Sykes a,g – £1 – £1 – £958 – £958
Total Former Non-Executive Directors £550 £12 – £562 £743 £958 – £1,701
Total Non-Executive Directors £1,168 £12 – £1,180 £1,053 £958 – £2,011
Total remuneration £2,902 £766 £1,777 £5,445 £2,459 £1,361 £2,215 £6,035
Remunerationfor Directors on the US Payrollisreported in Dollars.Amounts have been converted to Sterling at the average rates for the year.
a) Following the merger, those participants in the legacy share option schemes who elected to exchange their legacy options for options over
GlaxoSmithKline shares were granted an additional cash benefit equal to 10 per cent of the grant price of the original option. This additional benefit,
known as the Exchange Offer Incentive (EOI), is only payable when the new option is exercised or lapses above market value. To qualify for this additional
cash benefit,participants had to retain these options until at least the second anniversary of the effective date of the merger. During the year Dr Garnier
received $335,730(2003– $299,311)relating to options exercised (page55). In 2003, Sir Richard Sykes received £940,499 as a result of his options
lapsing above market value. These amounts are included in other benefits in the table above.
b) Dr Garnier is a Non-Executive Director of United Technologies Corporation,in respect of which in 2004,hereceived $110,000in the form of deferred
stock units and3,500stock options with a grant price of $88.17. Mr Coombe is a member of the Supervisory Board of Siemens AG, in respect of which,
in 2004,hereceived£54,082and1,500stock appreciation rights with a grant price of €72.54. Dr Yamadawasa member of the Board of Directors of
diaDexus,Inc.,in respect of which,in 2004,hereceived30,000stock appreciation rights with a grant price of $0.40.These amounts are excluded from
the table above and retained by the Executive Directors.
c) In 2001, following the merger,Dr Garnier,Mr Coombe and Dr Yamadawere awardeda one-off special deferred bonusas members of the CET.Each was
awarded anamount equivalent to hissalary on 31st December 2001 and this was notionally invested in GlaxoSmithKline shares or ADSs on15th February
2002and deferred for three years. As at31st December 2004 the value of those shares or ADSs notionally acquired in respect of Dr Garnier was
$1,500,001, anincrease offiveper cent over the year. This includes dividends reinvested during the year of$58,236. Those shares notionally acquired in
respect of Mr Coombe were valued at £364,203as at 31st December 2004, adecrease ofoneper cent over the year. This includes dividends reinvested
during the year of £14,460.Those shares notionally acquired in respect of Dr Yamada were valued at$672,414as at 31st December 2004, an increase
offiveper cent over the year.This includes dividends reinvested during the year of$26,106.
The deferred bonus vested on 15th February 2005 andthe amounts paid were equivalent to the then value of shares orADSs notionally acquired in
February 2002 plus dividends reinvested over the period. Dr Garnier received $1,556,324and Dr Yamada received $697,663. Mr Coombe has waived
hisdeferred bonusof £383,924. The company will make acontribution to the pension plan in 2005of£383,924 to enhance his pension entitlements.
These amounts are not included in the table above.RemunerationReportGlaxoSmithKline 51
d) Mr Coombe has waived his 2004annualbonus of £650,370. Thecompany will make acontribution to the pension plan in 2005of£650,370 to
enhance his pension entitlements.This amount is not included within fees and salary above.
e) Dr Shapiro is a member of GlaxoSmithKline’s Scientific Advisory Board for which she received fees of $85,000 (2003 – $85,000),of which$30,000
(2003 – $30,000) was in the form of ADSs. These are included within fees and salary above.
f) Dr Barzach received fees of €83,005(2003 – €72,268) fromGlaxoSmithKline Francefor healthcare consultancy provided. These are included
within fees and salary above.
g) In addition to the remuneration received as a former director, as set out above,Sir Richard Sykes received £20,417(2003– £49,000)for the period
1st January 2004 to 30th May 2004 relating to his appointment as Senior Advisor.
None of the above Directors received expenses during the year requiring separate disclosure as required by the Regulations.
Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration
2004 2003
Total Cash Shares/ADSs Total Cash Shares/ADSs
Fees and salary 000 000 000 000 000 000
Current Non-Executive Directors
MrLCulp $97 – $97 $48 – $48
Sir Deryck Maughan $57 – $57 – – –
Dr L Shapiro $97 $75 $22 $93 $72 $21
Sir Christopher Gent £175 £140 £35 – – –
Sir Crispin Davis £57 – £57 £29 – £29
Sir Ian Prosser £65 £28 £37 £66 £27 £39
Dr R Schmitz £72 £38 £34 £67 £33 £34
Sir Robert Wilson £66 £52 £14 £10 £8 £2
Former Non-Executive Directors
Mr JMcArthur $42 $37 $5 $101 $80 $21
Mr D McHenry $42 $37 $5 $106 $85 $21
Mr PAllaire – – – £28 £25 £3
Dr M Barzach £22 £19 £3 £57 £45 £12
Sir Christopher Hogg £369 £150 £219 £374 £150 £224
Sir Roger Hurn – – – £50 £32 £18
Sir Peter Job £57 – £57 £57 – £57
Total £1,066 £508 £558 £951 £465 £486
The table above sets out the remuneration received as Non-Executive Directors of GlaxoSmithKline. Accordingly, it does not include
Dr Barzach’s fees received from GlaxoSmithKline France for healthcare consultancy provided or Dr Shapiro’s fees received as a member
of GlaxoSmithKline’s Scientific Advisory Board.
From 1st January until 30th September 2004,Non-Executive Directors were required to receive part of their fees in the form of sharesor
ADSs,with the balance received in cash. From 1st October 2004 until 31st December 2004, the Non-Executive Directors were required to
take at least 25 per cent of their total fees in the form of shares allocated to a share account. In both cases they could then elect to receive
either all or part of the cash payment in the form of further sharesorADSs. The total value of these shares and ADSs as at the date of
award,together with the cash payment, forms their total fees,which are included within the Annual remuneration table under ‘Fees and
salary’. The table above sets out the value of their fees received in the form of cash and shares and ADSs.
The shares and ADSs are notionally awarded to the Non-Executive Directors and allocated to their interest accounts and are included
within the Directors’ interests tables on page53. The accumulated balance of these shares and ADSs, together with notional dividends
subsequently reinvested, are not paid out to the Non-Executive Directors until retirement. Upon retirement, the Non-Executive Directors
will receive either the shares and ADSs or a cash amount equal to the value of the shares and ADSs at the date of retirement.52 GlaxoSmithKline RemunerationReport
The table below sets out the accumulated number of shares and ADSs held by each Non-Executive Director as at 31st December 2004
together with the movements in their account over the year.
Number of shares and ADSs
Dividends
Non-Executive Directors’ share arrangements At 31.12.03 Allocated Elected reinvested Paid out At 31.12.04
Current Non-Executive Directors
Sir Christopher Gent – – 2,918 3 – 2,921
MrLCulp - ADSs 1,061 375 1,868 44 – 3,348
Sir Crispin Davis 2,272 750 4,208 103 – 7,333
Sir Deryck Maughan – 125 1,123 – – 1,248
Sir Ian Prosser 9,030 750 2,411 329 – 12,520
Dr R Schmitz 7,550 750 2,194 277 – 10,771
Dr L Shapiro - Shares 1,619 – – 57 – 1,676
- ADSs 2,045 375 144 44 – 2,608
Sir Robert Wilson 167 750 409 11 – 1,337
Former Non-Executive Directors
Dr M Barzach 3,109 250 – – 3,359 –
Sir Christopher Hogg 27,929 6,000 13,003 1,068 – 48,000
Sir Roger Hurn 12,163 – – 422 1,280 11,305
Sir Peter Job 12,228 750 4,208 452 – 17,638
Mr JMcArthur - ADSs 2,084 125 – – 2,209 –
Mr DMcHenry - ADSs 2,045 125 – – 2,170 –
Mr JYoung - Shares 1,978 – – – 1,978 –
- ADSs 1,014 – – – 1,014 –
The table below sets out the settlement of former Non-Executive Directors’share arrangements ontheir leaving the Board:
Value of awards Value of awards Payments
Date ofleaving onallocation onleaving(a) in 2004(b)
2004
Dr M Barzach 17.05.04 £47,032 £40,390 £40,390
Sir Christopher Hogg 31.12.04 £565,857 £586,559 –
Sir Peter Job 31.12.04 £225,360 £215,538 –
Mr JMcArthur 17.05.04 $99,880 $94,861 $94,861
Mr DMcHenry(d) 17.05.04 $98,556 $93,187 $93,187
Prior years
Sir Roger Hurn(c) 05.06.03 £14,806
Mr JYoung(c) 20.05.02 $85,063
a) The change in value of awards between allocation and leaving is attributable to dividends re-invested and the change in share price between the dates
ofaward and the dates ofleaving.
b) Awards to SirChristopher Hogg and Sir Peter Jobunder the Non-ExecutiveDirectors’ sharearrangements weresettledin full, with a transfer of shares in
January 2005.
c) On leaving the Board, Sir Roger Hurn and Mr Young elected to receive the settlement of their Non-Executive Directorssharearrangements in 40quarterly
and three annual cash payments, respectively.
d) In addition to the payments disclosed above Mr McHenry received a payment $970,495 for deferred fees relating to the period Mr McHenry was Director
of SmithKline Beckman prior to the merger with the Beecham Group in 1989. The deferred fees were indexed to the total return of GlaxoSmithKline
ADSsand payable following Mr McHenry’s retirement as a Non-Executive Director of GlaxosmithKline.The total accumulated value of deferred fees paid
was equivalent to 23,190 GlaxoSmithKline ADSs.RemunerationReportGlaxoSmithKline 53
Directors’ interests
The following beneficial interests of the Directors of the company are shown in the register maintained by the company in accordance with
the Companies Act 1985:
Shares ADSs
25th February 31st December 1stJanuary 25th February 31st December 1st January
Footnote 2005 2004 2004 2005 2004 2004
Dr JP Garnier a – – – 224,847 204,430 113,858
Mr JCoombe b 198,629 186,652 173,911 – – –
Dr T Yamada a – – – 66,832 60,923 52,930
Sir Christopher Gent c,d 2,921 2,921 – – – –
MrL Culp c – – – 3,348 3,348 1,061
Sir CrispinDavis c 12,500 12,500 7,439 – – –
Sir Christopher Hogg c,e 52,667 32,450 – – –
Sir Peter Job c,e 19,925 14,482 – – –
Sir Deryck Maughan c,d – – – 1,248 1,248 –
Sir Ian Prosser c 13,430 13,430 9,940 – – –
Dr R Schmitz c 10,771 10,771 7,550 2,840 2,840 2,840
Dr L Shapiro c 1,676 1,676 1,619 6,276 5,958 4,709
Sir Robert Wilson c 2,465 2,465 1,295 – – –
One GlaxoSmithKline ADS represents two GlaxoSmithKline shares.
a) Includes the equivalent number ofADSspurchased in the GlaxoSmithKline Stock Fund within the 401(k) plan.
b) Includes shares purchased through the GlaxoSmithKline ShareReward Plan totalling763shares at 31st December 2004 (2003 – 481) and809shares at
25thFebruary 2005.
c) Includes shares and ADSs received as part or all of their fees as described under Non-Executive Directors’ share arrangements above. Dividends received
on these shares and ADSs were converted to shares and ADSs as at 31st December 2004. These are also included in the Directors’ interests above.
d) Sir Christopher Gent and Sir Deryck Maughan did not own any shares on the date of their appointment to the Board.
e) Sir Christopher Hogg and Sir Peter Job left the board on 31st December 2005, therefore their interests in the company on 25th February 2005 are not
included in the table above.
The interests of the above-mentioned Directors at25thFebruary 2005 reflect changes between the end of the financial year and that date.54 GlaxoSmithKline RemunerationReport
Share options
Options – ADSs Granted
At 31.12.03 Date of grant Exercise period Grant price Number Exercised At 31.12.04
Dr JP Garnier 3,615,700 02.12.04 02.12.07- 01.12.14 $43.73 460,000 231,052 3,844,648
Dr T Yamada 1,085,358 02.12.04 02.12.07- 01.12.14 $43.73 138,000 – 1,223,358
Options – Shares Granted
At 31.12.03 Date of grant Exercise period Grant price Number Exercised At 31.12.04
Mr JCoombe 1,434,249 n/a n/a n/a n/a – 1,434,249
For those options outstanding at 31st December 2004,the earliest and latest vesting and lapse dates for those above and below the
market price for a GlaxoSmithKline share at the year end are given in the table below.Mr Coombewasexcluded from the grant of
options on2nd December 2004,as he retires from the company within 12 months of the date of the grant.
Weighted average Vestingdate Lapse date
Dr JPGarnier grant price Number earliest latest earliest latest
Above market price (“underwater”) at year end: vested options $55.99 2,033,448 23.11.01 28.11.04 22.11.08 27.11.11
$55.99 2,033,448
Below market price at year end: vested options $34.00 441,200 15.11.98 13.11.00 14.11.05 12.11.07
unvested options $41.88 1,370,000 03.12.05 02.12.07 02.12.12 01.12.14
$39.96 1,811,200
Total ADS options as at 31st December 2004 $48.44 3,844,648
Weighted average Vestingdate Lapse date
Dr TYamada grant price Number earliest latest earliest latest
Above market price (“underwater”) at year end: vested options $56.35 660,591 23.11.01 28.11.04 22.11.08 27.11.11
$56.35 660,591
Below market price at year end: vested options $29.07 141,767 25.03.99 13.11.00 24.03.06 12.11.07
unvested options $41.77 421,000 03.12.05 02.12.07 02.12.12 01.12.14
$38.57 562,767
Total ADS options as at 31st December 2004 $48.17 1,223,358
Weighted average Vestingdate Lapse date
Mr JCoombe grant price Number earliest latest earliest latest
Above market price (“underwater”) at year end: vested options £16.97 867,218 04.08.02 28.11.04 03.08.09 27.11.11
unvested options £12.70 276,000 15.12.06 15.12.06 14.12.13 14.12.13
£15.94 1,143,218
Below market price at year end: unvested options £11.78 291,031 01.12.05 03.12.05 31.05.06 02.12.12
£11.78 291,031
Total share options as at 31st December 2004 £15.10 1,434,249
GlaxoSmithKline grants share options to Executive Directors and Senior Managers on an annual basis, generally in November. An initial
grant was made following completion of the merger in March 2001. The measurement period for the options granted in March 2001
commenced on 1st January 2001. The measurement periods for options granted in November 2001and2002 and December 2003 and
2004 commenced on1st January 2002, 2003, 2004and 2005,respectively. The Directors hold these options under the various share
option plans referred to inNote36to the Financial statements, ‘Employee share schemes’. None of the other Directors had an interest
in any option over the company’s shares.
Following the merger, each of the Directors above elected to exchange their outstanding options in the legacy share option plans for
options over GlaxoSmithKline shares. These Directors,and all other participants in those legacy schemes who made such an election, will
receive an additional benefit of a cash sum equal to 10 per cent of the grant price of the original option. This additional benefit will be
given when the new option is exercised or lapses.
Prior to 2003 only those share options granted to Executive Directors were subject to a performance condition. In order for the options to
vest in full, business performance EPS growth, excluding currency and exceptional items, had on average to be at least three percentage
points per annum more than the increase in the UK Retail Prices Index over any three-year performance period.
The options granted to Executive Directors in 2003 were subject to the performance conditions as described on pages 46 to 47.RemunerationReportGlaxoSmithKline 55
In respect of the 2003 grant, if the performance condition is not met after the three-year measurement period, the performance will be
measured again over the four financial years following the date of grant of the options. If the performance conditionis not met at the end
of four years, the option will lapse.
The options granted to the Executive Directors in 2004 were subject to the same performance condition as set in 2003, but to the extent
that the performance conditions have not been met at the end of the three-year performance period, the option will lapse with no
retesting being permitted.
2004 2003
Grant Market
Options exercised Date Number price price Gain Gain
Dr JPGarnier 19.02.04 231,052 $14.53 $43.19 $6,621,049 $5,079,506
At the average exchange rate for the year, the above gain made by Dr Garnier amounted to £3,618,060.An EOI benefit of $335,730
(£183,459) was paid to Dr Garnier on exerciseof these options, this benefit has been included in the table on page50.
On14th February 2005, Dr Garnierexercised 79,054options with an exercise price of $22.07giving rise to a gain of $2,029,561.
Dr Garnier also received $174,472in respect of the Exchange Offer Incentive benefit arising on the exercise of these options.
Mr Coombe did not exercise any share options during 2004 or 2003.Dr Yamada did not exercise any options during 2004.
The highest and lowest closing prices during the year ended 31st December 2004 for GlaxoSmithKline shares were £12.99and£10.42,
respectively. The highest and lowest prices for GlaxoSmithKline ADSs during the year ended 31st December 2004 were $47.50and$39.04,
respectively. The market price for a GlaxoSmithKline share on 31st December 2004 was £12.22(31st December 2003 – £12.80) and for a
GlaxoSmithKline ADS was $47.39(31st December 2003 – $46.62). Thepriceson25th February 2005 were£12.62per GlaxoSmithKline
share and $48.64per GlaxoSmithKline ADS.
Incentive plans
Performance Share Planawards
Dr JPGarnier – ADS
Market Additional
Number price on Vested& exercised ADS by Vested &
Unvested granted date of Vested & Market dividends Unvested deferred
Performance period at 31.12.03 in 2004 grant deferred Number price Gain Lapsed reinvested at 31.12.04 at 31.12.04
01.01.01– 31.12.03 70,000 – $51.30 34,492 508 $43.39 $22,042 35,000 1,023 – 35,515
01.01.02–31.12.04 70,000 – $51.95 – – – – – – 70,000 –
01.01.03 –31.12.05 70,000 – $37.25 – – – – – – 70,000 –
01.01.04 –31.12.06 200,000 – $44.57 – – – – – 5,990 205,990 –
01.01.05 – 31.12.07 – 200,000 $43.73 – – – – – – 200,000 –
The value of awards deferred by DrGarnier at vesting was$1,496,608.
Dr TYamada – ADS
Market Additional
Number price on Vested&exercised ADS by
Unvested granted date of Vested & Market dividends Unvested
Performance period at 31.12.03 in 2004 grant deferred Number price Gain Lapsed reinvested at 31.12.04
01.01.01 – 31.12.03 20,000 – $51.30 – 10,000 $43.39 $433,900 10,000 – –
01.01.02 – 31.12.04 20,000 – $51.95 – – – – – – 20,000
01.01.03– 31.12.05 20,000 – $37.25 – – – – – – 20,000
01.01.04– 31.12.06 60,000 – $44.57 – – – – – 1,797 61,797
01.01.05 – 31.12.07 – 60,000 $43.73 – – - – – – 60,000
Mr JCoombe – Shares
Market Additional
Number price on Vested& exercised sharesby
Unvested granted date of Vested & Market dividends Unvested
Performance period at 31.12.03 in 2004 grant deferred Number price Gain Lapsed reinvested at 31.12.04
01.01.01– 31.12.03 40,000 – £17.93 – 20,000 £11.30 £226,000 20,000 – –
01.01.02– 31.12.04 40,000 – £18.15 – – – – – – 40,000
01.01.03– 31.12.05 40,000 – £11.79 – – – – – – 40,000
01.01.04– 31.12.06 120,000 – £12.70 – – – – – 3,622 123,62256 GlaxoSmithKline RemunerationReport
At the average exchange rate for the year, the above gainsby Dr GarnierandDr Yamadaamounted to £12,045 and £236,612,
respectively.Mr Coombewasexcluded from thegrant of awards made on 2ndDecember 2004 as he retires from the company within
12 months of the date of the grant.
The Performance Share Plan (PSP) is a medium-term incentive scheme introduced during 2001. The PSP replaces the Long-Term Incentive
Plan and the Mid-Term Incentive Plan operated respectively by Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham.
Under the terms of the PSP the number of shares actually vesting is determined following the end of the relevant three-year measurement
period and is dependent on GlaxoSmithKline’s performance during that period as described on page46. The share awards aregranted
annually in November or December and the measurement period commences on the following 1st January, ending after threeyears
on31st December. The three-year measurement period for theawards with a performance periodcommencing1st January 2002,
ended on 31st December 2004. Based on the performance of GlaxoSmithKline during that period,50 per centof theaward vested in
February 2005.Beginning withthe award with a performance period beginning on 1st January 2004,dividends are reinvested on the
PSPs awarded to members of the CET.Under the terms of the PSP, US participants may defer receipt of all or part of their vested awards.
Dr Garnier elected to defer receipt of 34,492 of his awards that vested in 2004untilretirement.
Prior to the performance period beginning 1st January 2004, awards were in two parts: halfcanbe earned by reference to
GlaxoSmithKline’s TSR performance compared to the FTSE 100, of which the company is a constituent, and the other half of the award
isdeliverable if the company’s business performance EPS growth, excluding currency and exceptional items,ison average at least three
percentage points per annum more than the increase in the UK Retail Prices Index over the three-year performance period.For these
awards, if GlaxoSmithKlineisrankedin the top 20 of the FTSE 100 based on TSR performance, then all of the sharesin this part of the
awardwill vest. For the 50th position in the FTSE100, 40 per cent of the shares will vest. If GlaxoSmithKline is ranked below 50th position,
none of the shares,subject to this part of the award,will vest. Between the 20th and 50th positions, vesting will occur on a sliding scale.
The following vesting table appliesto theawards with a performance period from 1st January2004 to 31st December 2006.
TSR rank with 14 companies & GlaxoSmithKline* Percentage of award vesting**
1 100% * The performance comparator group for theseawardscomprised 14 other companies
and GlaxoSmithKline. Both Aventis and Sanofi-Synthelabo were in the comparator
2 100%
groupprior to their merger to form Sanofi-Aventis. For the purposes of calculating
3 90% TSRover the performance period for the awards granted in December 2003, the
4 80% starting price of the shares of the two individual companies will be compared to the
price of the merged company at the end of the performance period, adjusted by the
5 70% merger ratio. Dividends will be treated as having been reinvested during the
6 60% performance period.
7 50% **TSR is measured on a prorata basis. Where GlaxoSmithKline’s performance falls
Median 35% between two of the comparators, the level of vesting will be determined by
Below median 0% the actual relative level of TSR rather than simple ranking.
Vested and Vested and
deferred Dividends deferred
participations reinvested participations
Mid-Term Incentive Plan – ADSs at 31.12.03 in 2004 at 31.12.04
Dr JP Garnier 157,424 5,714 163,138
The Mid-Term Incentive Plan (MTIP) was a share award scheme operated by SmithKline Beecham. The plan closed to new entrants upon
completion of the merger and no further participations have been granted.
Where a final award of ADSs is made, receipt of the award may be deferred by a Director.Dr Garnier deferred receipt of the full amounts
vestedin 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002and 2003. The deferred awards, together with any additional ADSs subsequently received through
dividend reinvestment, arenot included in the Directors’ interests table on page53sincethey are retained in the MTIP until paid out.
Average
Stock Appreciation Rights (SARs) – ADSs At 31.12.03 At 31.12.04 grant price
Dr L Shapiro 1,487 1,487 $50.34
All SARs held by DrShapiro have a grant price above the market price of a GlaxoSmithKline ADS at year end.
Dr Shapiro is a member of GlaxoSmithKline’s Scientific Advisory Board (SAB). Dr Shapiro was a member of SmithKline Beecham’s SAB
from 1993 until the completion of the merger with Glaxo Wellcome. Along with other members of the SAB, she received annual grants
of SmithKline Beecham SARs which, in general, vested three years from the date of grant and will expire 10 years from the date of grant.
Grants of SARs to SAB members ceased in 1999.
SARs entitle the holder to a cash sum at a future date based on share price growth between the date of grant and the date of exercise.
Full provision is made in the financial statements for accrued gains on SARs from the date of grant. In connection with the merger, all
previously granted SARs became immediately exercisable.RemunerationReportGlaxoSmithKline 57
Pensions
The accrued annual pension benefits and transfer values for Executive Directors on retirement are set out below.
The regulations require disclosure of: the accrued benefit at the end of the year; the change in accrued benefit over the year; the transfer
value at both the beginning and end of the year, and the change in the transfer value over the year. The Listing Rules require additional
disclosure of the change in accrued benefit net of inflation and the transfer value of this change.
Change in
Change in Change accrued Transfer value
Accrued Accrued accrued Transfer Transfer over year benefit over of change
benefit benefit benefit value value in transfer year net in accrued
at 31.12.03 at 31.12.04 over year at 31.12.03 at 31.12.04 value* of inflation benefit*
000 pa 000 pa 000 pa 000 000 000 000 pa 000
Dr JP Garnier $1,012 $1,040 $28 $10,089 $11,638 $1,549 $(8) $1,549
Mr JCoombe £317 £345 £28 £6,436 £7,666 £1,230 £19 £432
Dr TYamada $155 $165 $10 $1,044 $1,264 $220 $5 $220
* The change in transfer value is shown net of contributions made by the individual.
Pensions for the Executive Directors have been disclosed in the currency in which the pension is payable.
Dr Garnier and Dr Yamada are members of the all employee US cash balance pension plan, under which GlaxoSmithKline makes annual
contributions calculated as a percentage of the employee’s base salary and bonus.The fund increases at an interest rate set annually
inadvance based on the 30-year treasury bond rate to provide a cash sum at retirement. This cash sum is used to purchase a pension
at retirement based on the annuity rates applicable at that time. Neither has entitlement to a spouse’s pension or to pension increases,
otherthan by reducing their own initial pension.
The normal retirement age under this plan is 65 years of age. DrGarnier’s pension arrangements have been brought into line with the
termsof his service agreement and the assumed retirement age reduced to 60. Similarly Dr Yamada’s assumed retirement age has been
reducedto 62.
The transfer value, or cash sum, of Dr Garnier’s plan has increased by$1,548,679over the year as a result of phased transfers from a
previous scheme, the further accumulation of interest and contributions paid by thecompany.
The transfer value, or cash sum,of Dr Yamada’s plan has increased by $220,097 over the year as a result of the further accumulation of
interest and contributions paid by the company.
Dr Garnier and Dr Yamada are alsomembers of the USRetirement Savings Plan, a money purchase scheme open to all USemployees.
Contributions are invested in a range of funds and the value of the accumulated funds are paid at retirement. During 2004 contributions
of£36,160 ($66,173)were paid into this scheme by the company in respect of Dr Garnier, of which £2,240 ($4,100)was invested in
GlaxoSmithKline shares in a stock ownership account. In respect of Dr Yamada, contributions of£44,840 ($82,057)were paid into the
scheme of which£2,240 ($4,100)was invested in GlaxoSmithKline shares in a stock ownership account. The shares held in this account
are included within the Director’s interests tables on page53.
Mr Coombe’s transfer value has been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note GN11. The
transfer value represents the present value of future payments to be made under the pension plan. Whilst Mr Coombe’s annual accrued
benefit has increased by £28,206(£19,324excluding the effects of inflation), the transfer value has increased by £1,230,000over the year.
This increase has arisen primarily as a result of the following factors:
• Mr Coombe’s pensionable salary increased by £14,850 in 2004.This has accounted for £7,601of the increase in his accrued benefit
and £169,000increase in the transfer value of his accrued benefit as at 31st December 2004
• Annual increases to transfer values become larger the closer an individual is to retirement. Under the terms of Mr Coombe’s service
agreement,he will retire at the age of 60on 31stMarch 2005.As Mr Coombe approaches retirement,the transfer value of his pension
will further increaseto reflect the level of funds required to meet the annual accrued benefit payments
Mr Coombe has waived his 2004 annual bonus of £650,370and 2001 special deferred bonus of £383,924. The company will make a
contribution to the pension plan in 2005 of £1,034,294to enhance his pension benefits.
In 2003, a discretionary increase was applied to the UK Pension Plan uplifting the increase from the UK Retail Price Indexlevel of 2.8%
to 3% for all plan members. As a result, Sir Richard Sykes received adiscretionary increase of £1,265in his accrued benefit in 2004.58 GlaxoSmithKlineRemunerationReport
Directors and Senior Management
For US reporting purposes, it is necessary to provide information on compensation and interests of Directors and Senior Management
asagroup (‘the group’). For the purposes of this disclosure, the group is defined as the Directors, members of the CET and the Company
Secretary. In respect of the financial year 2004, the total compensation paid to members of the group for the periods during which they
served in that capacity was £13,113,720, the aggregateincrease in accrued pension benefits was £49,681and the aggregate payment
to defined contribution schemes was £306,589. During 2004members of the group were granted options over478,650shares and
1,206,750ADSs and awarded216,709shares,540,849ADSs in the Performance Share Planand 3,160 shares in the Restricted Share Plan.
At25th February 2005, the then-current members of the group (comprising23persons) owned552,787shares and476,357ADSs,
constituting less than one per cent of the issued share capital of the company. The group also held, at that date: options to purchase
5,249,150shares and7,813,443ADSs;715,252shares and1,239,292ADSs awarded under the Performance Share Plan, including those
shares and ADSs that are vested and deferred;4,188shares and235,845ADSs under the legacy SmithKline Beecham Mid-Term Incentive
Plan,including those shares and ADSs that are vested and deferred;1,487ADSs awarded under the legacy SmithKline Beecham Stock
Appreciation Rightsand 3,160 shares awarded under the Restricted Share Plan.These holdings were issued under the various executive
share option plansdescribed in Note 36to the Financial statements, ‘Employee share schemes’.
Directors’ interests in contracts
Except as described in Note32to the Financial statements, ‘Related party transactions’, during or at the end of the financial year no
Director or connected person had any material interest in any contract of significance in relation to the Group’s business with a Group
company.
The Directors’ Remuneration Report has been approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by
Sir Christopher Gent
Chairman
2ndMarch 2005GlaxoSmithKline 59
Operating and financial review
and prospects
The Operating and financial review and prospects discusses the
operating and financial performance,the financial outlook and the
financial resources of the Group. The results for each year are
compared primarily with the results for the preceding year under
the following headings:
60 Financial trends and ratios
61 2004 Year– results for the year to 31st December 2004 compared
to the year to 31st December 2003
71 Financial position and resources– at 31st December 2004
76 Outlook and risk factors
Additionally, in accordance with US requirements:
79 2003 Year– results for the year to 31st December 2003 compared
to the year to 31st December 2002
Exchangerates
The Group, as a multinational business, operates in many
countriesand earns revenues and incurs costs in many currencies.
Its results as reported in sterling, are affected bymovements in
exchange rates between sterling and overseascurrencies.
Average exchange rates prevailing during the period areused
to translate the results and cash flows of overseas subsidiary and
associated undertakings and joint ventures into sterling. Period
end ratesare used to translate the net assets of those undertakings.
The currencies which most influence these translations are the
USdollar, the Euro and the Japanese Yen.
In order to illustrate underlying performance, it is the Group’s
practice to discuss its results in terms of constant exchange
rate (CER) growth. This represents growth calculated as if the
exchange rates used to determine the results of overseas
companies in sterling had remained unchanged from those
used in the previous year. CER% represents growth at constant
exchange rates. £% represents growth at actual exchange rates.
Business performance
During the years 2000 to 2003, business performance was the
primary performance measure used by management and was
presented after excluding merger items, integration and
restructuring costs and disposals of businesses. Management
believesthat exclusion of these items providesa better
comparison of the way in which the business was managed
and givesan indication of the performance of the Group in
terms of those elements of revenue and expenditure which
local management was able to influence.
For 2004, with the completion of these programmes, the Group
is reporting results on a statutory basis only. Growth rates are
presented comparing 2004 results both with 2003 business
performance results and 2003 statutory results. Management
considers that the comparison of 2004 statutory results with
2003 business performance results gives the most appropriate
indication of the Group’s performance for the period under
review and therefore commentaries are presented on this basis
unless otherwise stated.
This information is provided in addition to the statutory results
prepared under UK GAAP which appear on pages90and91
to assist shareholders to gain a clear understanding of the
underlying performance of the business and increase
comparability for the periods presented.60 GlaxoSmithKline Operating and financial review and prospects
Financial trends and ratios
2003 2002
Statutory results 2004 Growth (restated) Growth (restated)
£m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m
Turnover-Pharmaceuticals 17,146 1 (6) 18,181 5 1 17,995
-Consumer Healthcare 3,213 3 (1) 3,260 4 1 3,217
Total 20,359 1 (5) 21,441 5 1 21,212
Cost of sales (4,309) (1) (5) (4,544) – (1) (4,609)
Selling, general and administration (7,061) (2) (7) (7,597) (2) (5) (8,023)
Research and development (2,839) 7 2 (2,791) (1) (4) (2,900)
Trading profit 6,150 5 (6) 6,509 21 15 5,680
Profit before taxation 6,119 8 (3) 6,313 20 14 5,524
Earnings 4,302 7 (4) 4,478 19 14 3,930
Basic earnings per share (pence) 75.0p 8 (3) 77.1p 22 16 66.5p
Merger, restructuring and disposal of subsidiaries
Cost of sales – (356) (366)
Selling, general and administration – (18) (498)
Research and development – (21) (168)
Trading profit – (395) (1,032)
Profit before taxation – (390) (1,011)
Earnings – (281) (712)
Business performance results
Turnover 20,359 1 (5) 21,441 5 1 21,212
Cost of sales (4,309) 7 3 (4,188) – (1) (4,243)
Selling, general and administration (7,061) (2) (7) (7,579) 4 – (7,525)
Research and development (2,839) 8 2 (2,770) 4 1 (2,732)
Trading profit 6,150 (1) (11) 6,904 8 3 6,712
Profit before taxation 6,119 2 (9) 6,703 8 3 6,535
Adjusted earnings 4,302 1 (10) 4,759 7 5 4,642
Adjusted earnings per share (pence) 75.0p 2 (9) 82.0p 10 4 78.5p
Research and development – Statutory
Pharmaceuticals 2,730 2,704 2,791
Consumer Healthcare 109 87 109
Total 2,839 2,791 2,900
Interest
Net interest payable 203 161 141
Interest cover 31 times 40 times 40 times
Interest cover is calculated as statutory profit before interest divided by net interest payable.
Tax rate
Business performance 27.8% 27.4% 27.0%
Statutory results 27.8% 27.4% 26.5%
Borrowings
Net debt 1,984 1,648 2,335
Gearing 32% 28% 50%
The gearing ratio is calculated as net debt as a percentage of shareholders’ funds, net debt and minority interests.Operating and financial review and prospectsGlaxoSmithKline 61
2004 Year
World economy World market – pharmaceuticals
Record oil pricesthe continued threat of terrorismand tightened Global pharmaceutical sales increased bynineper cent in 2004 to
monetary policies by the major economies were features of the £284billion.
global economy during 2004. Despite this, there was continued
strong growth in China and the USA, with signs of economic World market by Value % of Growth
recovery in the main economies of Europe, albeit slower. geographic region £bn total CER% £%
USA 124.7 44 10 (2)
Growth in the USAwas4.4per cent, although there were wide
Europe 82.3 29 8 8
predictions that 2005 wouldsee expansion kept to less than four
Germany 15.5 5 6 6
per cent. The Federal Reserve Board raised interest ratesfive times
France 15.0 5 8 8
during 2004to stave off inflationary pressures. There was
UK 10.5 4 10 10
continued concern over the country’s budget deficit and the effect
Italy 9.7 3 6 6
on the global economy of whatever corrective actions were to be
Japan 30.9 11 3 1
adopted. Nevertheless, the USA remained the main driver for
Asia Pacific 19.3 7 13 6
global growth, with strong support from Asia, despite the adverse
Latin America 12.1 4 16 2
impact of higher oil prices.
Middle East, Africa 8.6 3 13 5
Japan’s economydeclined0.5per cent, however a recovery in the Canada 6.0 2 10 8
economy is anticipated in mid-2005. Althoughin China, official Total 283.9 100 9 2
measures to moderate the pace of the country’s economic
expansionweretaken, growthof over nineper centwas achieved. Growth in theUS markethas slowed but remains in double digits
Emerging economies elsewhere in Asia were hit by oil price rises, and now represents 44 per cent of the global prescription
although reasonable growth continued in countries such as Taiwan, pharmaceutical market compared to30per cent a decade ago.
Thailand and Singapore.
At 30th September 2004, GlaxoSmithKline heldsecondposition
In the EU,GDP grew 2.3 per centwheregrowth in the larger in the world pharmaceutical market with a market share of6.5
economies varied from2.8per cent in the UKto1.5per cent in percent, behind Pfizer with a market share of10.1per cent.
Germany. Interest rates were unchanged by the European Central GlaxoSmithKline hadeightproducts in the world’s top60
Bank and while oil prices were expected to have an adverse impact pharmaceutical products; these areAugmentin, Avandia,
on the main European economies in 2005, continued modest Imigran/Imitrex,Lamictal,Seretide/Advair, Seroxat/Paxil, Wellbutrin
growth was predicted. and Zofran.
In the UK,increases in Government and consumer spending fuelled World market – Value % of Growth
initial expansionthat wasdampened later by concerns about top five therapeutic classes £bn total CER% £%
interest rates and house prices. Nevertheless the final growth rate Cardiovascular 48.3 17 9 3
met Government forecasts. The Bank of England raised interest Central nervous system 47.1 17 11 4
ratesfourtimes during the year, but held them at 4.75 per cent as Alimentary tract and metabolic 35.1 12 6 (1)
signs emerged of the slowing in the economy and as concerns Anti-infectives (bacterial,
about inflation receded. viral and fungal) excluding vaccines 30.6 11 6 (1)
Respiratory 19.5 7 5 (1)
Following the substantive recovery of the global equity markets in
2003, share price indices in 2004 showed subdued advances
(Note: data based on 12 months to 30thSeptember 2004.)
despite positive economic and corporate news through the year.
Pharmaceutical turnover
Exchange
All growth rates included in the review of turnover are at constant
The currencies that most influence the Group’s results are the US
exchange rates (CER) unless otherwise stated. The sterling growth
dollar, the Euro and the Japanese Yen.
rates may be found in the tables of pharmaceutical turnover by
The pound hit its highest level against the dollar for more than therapeutic area on page63and by geographic region on
fouryears, climbing to $1.92at the year-end, and the Euro gained page64.
one per cent against sterling and eightper cent against the dollar
Total pharmaceutical turnover in 2004 was£17,146million
in 2004. This was thesecond consecutiveyear that the dollar has
compared with £18,181 million in 2003, an increase ofone
fallen in value against the Euro,due tothe impact of continued
per centCER.In sterling terms turnover declined six per cent
unrest in Iraq, tension elsewhere in the world and concerns for the
principally due tothe weakness of the US dollar.
US economy.
Within the Group’s portfolio, turnover of new products first
launched in a major market within the last five years accounted
for30per cent of total turnover and grew by21per cent to
£5,130 million. Turnover of the more established, franchise
products amounted to£8,767million representing51per cent
of total turnover and declined fiveper cent compared to last year.
Turnover of older products, now less actively promoted, was
£3,249million, a decline ofsevenper cent, representing19per
cent of total turnover.62 GlaxoSmithKline Operating and financial review and prospects
2004 Year continued
Global pharmaceutical turnover in the fourth quarter of 2004 The strong growth of GlaxoSmithKline’s epilepsy and bi-polar
increased threeper cent, reflecting a US turnoverincreaseof disorder treatment Lamictalcontinues, with sales up 32 per cent to
fourper cent to£2,114million; whereas in Europe turnover £678 million. Ongoing US growth, up 49 per cent to £414 million,
grewtwoper cent to£1,397million, and in International turnover is being driven by the indication for the maintenance treatment of
grewfiveper cent to£976million.Turnover in the USAwas bi-polar disorder received last year.
impactedby generic competitionfor Wellbutrinand Paxil.
Excluding sales of these products, turnover grew 10 per cent Anti-virals
in the USA. Global HIV product sales rose four per cent to £1.5 billionand
sales in the USA increased four per cent to £747 million.
Pharmaceutical turnover by therapeutic area GlaxoSmithKline continues to grow its HIV franchise, despitethe
launch of several new products by competitors.
GlaxoSmithKline’s ability to continue to deliver pharmaceutical
turnover growth, despite generic competition to several of its HIV performance was enhanced by the launch of Epzicom, a new
products, is primarily due to an exceptionally broad product combination product (Epivir/Ziagen) in the USA in August 2004
portfolio of fast-growing, high-value products. and in the EU (under the name Kivexa) in January 2005.
These include therespiratory product Seretide/Advair,up 19 per Sales of the herpes treatment Valtrex exceeded£500 millionfor
cent(£2.5 billion),the diabetes treatment Avandia/Avandamet, the first time in 2004 (up 24 per cent to £571 million).
up 32 per cent(£1.1 billion),Lamictalfor epilepsy/bipolar disorder, Performance is being driven by the USA (up 30 per cent to
up 32 per cent(£0.7 billion),Valtrexfor herpes (£0.6 billion),up £369 million) where the product is the clear market leader in
24 per cent, Coregfor heart disease,up 34per cent (£0.4 billion) treatments for genital herpes.
andvaccines,up 11 per cent(£1.2 billion).
Anti-bacterials
In all, 12 GlaxoSmithKline products each had sales of over
Anti-bacterial sales declined nine per cent worldwide and
£500 million in 2004.
24 per cent in the USA reflecting generic competition in all regions.
Respiratory
Metabolic
GlaxoSmithKline continues to be the global leader in respiratory
Thediabetes treatments Avandia/Avandametcontinueto perform
pharmaceuticals with sales of its three key products,
very strongly, with overall sales of £1.1 billion (up 32 per cent).
Seretide/Advair, Flixotide/Floventand Serevent, amounting to
£3.4 billion, up nine per cent. Sales of Seretide/Advair, the Group’s Sales in theUSAgrew 26 per cent to £852 million. Encouragingly,
largest product grew 19 per cent to £2.5 billion although this Avandia/Avandametarealso growing verystronglyin Europe and
contributed to declines in Sereventand Flixotide, its constituent International markets with sales up 49 per cent and62 per cent,
products. respectively. Strong performance in these markets isdriven by the
growing acceptance amongst opinion leaders and physicians of
In the USA, Advairsales grew 20 per cent to £1.3 billion. Growth
the benefits of these new products in improving control for
ofSeretidein Europe was also strong (up 18 per cent to £902
diabetic patients.
million), although reported growth in the fourth quarter was
adversely impacted by a one-off rebate adjustment in Germany
Vaccines
and wholesaler de-stocking in Italy.International sales grew
Thevaccines business had a strong year, with sales up 11 per cent
15 per cent, reflecting good growth in all geographic areas.
to £1.2 billion. Several key products are driving growth –
The older respiratory products Ventolinand Becotidecontinued Pediarix/Infanrixup 12 per cent to £357 million, Priorixup14 per
to decline as patients converted to newer products. cent to £95 millionandFluarixup 38 per cent to £79 million.
Central nervous system (CNS) Oncology and emesis
CNS sales declined 16 per cent to £3.5billion. Sales declined in Sales of Zofrangrew eight per cent to £763 million, driven by
all regions. the US performance, up 10 per cent to £565 million.
Total sales of the Paxilfranchise were down 39 per cent to £1.1
Cardiovascular and urogenital
billion as a result of generic competition to Paxil IR, sales of which
In 2004, Coreg(for heart disease) sales grew 34 per cent to
declined 53 per cent to £667 million. Mitigating this decline was
£432 million.
the strong performance of the product in Japan,up 25 per cent
to £171 millionand the performance of Paxil CRwhich generated
Other therapeutic areas
sales of £396million, up 14 per cent.
Sales of Zantac fell 12 per cent to £273 million with declines
Total sales of Wellbutrinproducts fell 12 per cent to £751 million. in all regions.
Wellbutrin IRand SR sales fell 64 per cent to £284 million as a
result of generic competition. This impact was partially offset,
however, by the exceptionally strong performance of Wellbutrin XL,
the new once-daily product, which achieved sales of £467 million
in its first full year on the market.Operating and financial review and prospectsGlaxoSmithKline 63
Pharmaceutical turnover by therapeutic area 2004
Total USA Europe International
Therapeutic area/ % of 2004 2003 Growth 2004 Growth 2004 Growth 2004 Growth
major products total 0 2000 4000 £m £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Respiratory 26 4,415 4,417 7 – 2,183 9 (3) 1,538 5 4 694 4 –
Serevent, Seretide/Advair
Flixotide/Flovent 3,428 3,352 9 2 1,710 9 (2) 1,253 8 7 465 11 8
Seretide/Advair 2,461 2,214 19 11 1,330 20 8 902 18 17 229 15 11
Flixotide/Flovent 618 705 (7) (12) 251 (12) (21) 189 (7) (9) 178 2 –
Serevent 349 433 (15) (19) 129 (26) (34) 162 (13) (14) 58 24 21
Flixonase/Flonase 578 594 7 (3) 450 9 (2) 59 7 5 69 (5) (10)
CNS 20 3,463 4,455 (16) (22) 2,271 (19) (27) 748 (11) (12) 444 (7) (10)
Depression 1,814 2,830 (30) (36) 1,254 (34) (40) 252 (31) (32) 308 (10) (13)
Seroxat/Paxil 1,063 1,877 (39) (43) 519 (51) (56) 251 (31) (32) 293 (8) (11)
PaxilIR 667 1,490 (53) (55) 131 (82) (84) 251 (31) (32) 285 (10) (13)
Paxil CR 396 387 14 2 388 13 1 – – – 8 >100 >100
Wellbutrin 751 953 (12) (21) 735 (12) (21) 1 >100 >100 15 (37) (40)
Wellbutrin IR, SR 284 883 (64) (68) 270 (65) (69) 1 >100 >100 13 (44) (48)
Wellbutrin XL 467 70 >100 >100 465 >100 >100 – – – 2 >100 –
Migraine 760 849 (3) (10) 527 (3) (13) 176 – (2) 57 (4) (7)
Imigran/Imitrex 682 760 (2) (10) 492 (2) (12) 142 (2) (3) 48 (6) (9)
Lamictal 678 556 32 22 414 49 33 219 10 8 45 12 5
Requip 116 99 25 17 53 26 13 56 22 19 7 35 40
Anti-virals 14 2,360 2,349 8 – 1,165 12 1 725 1 – 470 7 1
HIV 1,463 1,508 4 (3) 747 4 (6) 559 2 1 157 8 1
Combivir 571 589 4 (3) 280 4 (7) 226 5 4 65 (1) (7)
Trizivir 322 376 (8) (14) 177 (10) (19) 130 (8) (9) 15 13 7
Epivir 294 293 7 – 139 4 (6) 115 10 7 40 14 5
Ziagen 155 167 – (7) 73 (5) (15) 60 (1) (2) 22 25 10
Retrovir 43 45 2 (4) 17 – (11) 16 4 – 10 3 –
Agenerase, Lexiva 63 38 80 66 46 >100 84 12 21 20 5 29 67
Herpes 718 669 15 7 380 31 17 138 (5) (7) 200 6 2
Valtrex 571 499 24 14 369 30 17 90 6 5 112 19 15
Zovirax 147 170 (10) (14) 11 38 22 48 (21) (23) 88 (8) (11)
Zeffix 130 129 7 1 11 18 10 22 27 29 97 3 (5)
Anti-bacterials 9 1,561 1,815 (9) (14) 356 (24) (32) 701 (6) (7) 504 1 (6)
Augmentin 708 825 (9) (14) 223 (21) (29) 298 (9) (10) 187 9 3
Augmentin IR 533 584 (5) (9) 59 (15) (20) 293 (10) (11) 181 8 1
Augmentin ES 74 135 (39) (45) 69 (42) (48) – – – 5 >100 >100
Augmentin XR 101 106 6 (5) 95 1 (10) 5 >100 >100 1 >100 –
Zinnat/Ceftin 218 246 (7) (11) 9 (52) (59) 133 – (1) 76 (8) (16)
Metabolic 8 1,253 1,079 27 16 852 26 13 135 19 16 266 35 28
Avandia/Avandamet 1,116 931 32 20 852 26 13 103 49 47 161 62 52
Vaccines 7 1,196 1,123 11 7 268 6 (5) 523 7 6 405 21 17
Hepatitis 406 417 3 (3) 134 (5) (15) 201 7 5 71 9 4
Infanrix, Pediarix 357 336 12 6 129 16 4 162 11 10 66 8 2
Oncology and emesis 5 934 1,001 2 (7) 679 2 (9) 170 6 4 85 (5) (11)
Zofran 763 774 8 (1) 565 10 (2) 130 5 3 68 (2) (7)
Hycamtin 99 110 (3) (10) 64 (7) (17) 29 13 16 6 (19) (25)
Cardiovascularand 5
urogenital 933 771 31 21 563 27 14 262 51 49 108 15 8
Coreg 432 361 34 20 425 37 23 – – – 7 (43) (53)
Levitra 49 37 41 32 20 – (9) 21 87 91 8 >100 100
Avodart 64 19 >100 >100 34 >100 >100 27 >100 >100 3 >100 –
Other 6 1,031 1,171 (7) (12) 88 (1) (11) 326 (5) (8) 617 (8) (14)
Zantac 273 328 (12) (17) 70 1 (9) 72 (22) (23) 131 (13) (17)
100 17,146 18,181 1 (6) 8,425 – (10) 5,128 2 – 3,593 3 (2)
CER% represents turnover growth at constant exchange rates. £% represents growth at actual exchange rates. An analysis of turnover by quarter is given in the Financial record
(pages154to159).64 GlaxoSmithKline Operating and financial review and prospects
2004 Year continued
Regional analysis Parallel trade occurs occasionally elsewhere in the world but it is
not sufficiently material to affect significantly the turnover data by
The turnover reported in the table below represents sales invoiced
market presented on an invoiced basis.
by GlaxoSmithKline’s local entity to its customers in the local
market plus co-promotion income within each market.
Pharmaceutical turnover for Europe region in 2004on a
turnover created basis
Pharmaceutical turnover by geographic region in 2004 on an
invoiced basis Turnover by market within Europe has been adjusted for the effects
of parallel trade to show turnover on the basis of the country
Region/ % of 2004 2003 Growth*
major markets total 0 3000 6000 9000 £m £m CER% £% where the product is finally consumed, not where the product was
sold by GlaxoSmithKline.
USA 49 8,425 9,410 – (10)
Europe 30 5,128 5,114 2 – 2004 2003
Region/ Invoiced Adjustment Created Invoiced Adjustment Created
France 982 1,005 (1) (2) major markets £m £m £m £m £m £m
UK 735 731 1 1
Europe 5,128 – 5,128 5,114 – 5,114
Italy 611 660 (6) (7)
France 982 (32) 950 1,005 (39) 966
Germany 521 538 (2) (3)
UK 735 95 830 731 60 791
Spain 560 528 7 6
Italy 611 (23) 588 660 (8) 652
Poland 148 167 (8) (11)
Germany 521 55 576 538 59 597
Other Europe 1,571 1,485 8 6
Spain 560 (15) 545 528 (21) 507
International 21 3,593 3,657 3 (2) Poland 148 – 148 167 – 167
Asia Pacific 1,162 1,140 8 2 Other Europe 1,571 (80) 1,491 1,485 (51) 1,434
Japan 770 753 5 2
Middle East, Africa 669 693 (1) (3)
Pharmaceutical turnover by geographic region in 2004
Latin America 581 597 8 (3)
on a turnover created basis
Canada 411 474 (11) (13)
Region/ % of 2004 2003 Growth*
100 17,146 18,181 1 (6) major markets total 0 3000 6000 9000 £m £m CER% £%
*CER% represents turnover growth at constant exchange rates. £% represents growth USA 49 8,425 9,410 – (10)
at actual exchange rates.
Europe 30 5,128 5,114 2 –
Individual governments determine the pricing of medicines in most France 950 966 – (2)
countries within Europe, which can result in wide price variations UK 830 791 5 5
for the same product. Parallel trade occurs when third parties Italy 588 652 (9) (10)
exploit this price differential by purchasing products in the market Germany 576 597 (2) (4)
where low prices are enforced and selling them to governments Spain 545 507 9 7
and other purchasers in those markets where higher prices have Poland 148 167 (8) (11)
been agreed. This parallel trade is permitted under the single Other Europe 1,491 1,434 7 4
market rules in the European Union. GlaxoSmithKline does not International 21 3,593 3,657 3 (2)
derive any benefit from the profit on resale at the higher price. Asia Pacific 1,162 1,140 8 2
Japan 770 753 5 2
As a result, management believes that within the European region,
Middle East, Africa 669 693 (1) (3)
turnover by market, on an invoiced basis as presented above, does
LatinAmerica 581 597 8 (3)
not properly represent the consumption of the products within
Canada 411 474 (11) (13)
each market. GlaxoSmithKlineemployeesbased in each market are
instrumental in the promotion of the Group’s products within their 100 17,146 18,181 1 (6)
market, thereby creating a product sale and final consumption in *CER% represents turnover growth at constant exchange rates. £% represents growth
that market. The following tablegives the adjustments made in at actual exchange rates. An analysis of turnover by quarter is given in the Financial
record (pages154to159).
orderto restate the turnover for markets within Europe on a
turnover created basis. These adjustments are GlaxoSmithKline’s
estimates based on the most recent data from independent
external sources, valued in sterling at relevant exchange rates.
Management believes that this turnover created basis of reporting
turnover by market provides a better reflection of the performance
of the businesses in each market within Europe.
The total turnover for the Europe region is unaffected by this
restatement.Operating and financial review and prospectsGlaxoSmithKline 65
USA International
The USA reported flat turnover in the year despite the significant The Internationalregion reported year on year turnover growth of
impact of generic competition to Paxiland Wellbutrin. Excluding three per cent.Strong growth in Asia Pacific upeight percent and
sales of these products, turnover grew 10 per cent. The US Latin America upeightper cent,wasoffset by flat sales in Australia
business represented 49 per cent of total pharmaceutical turnover and declines of five percent in Sub-SahahraAfrica,eightper cent
in 2004. in the Middle East/North Africa and 11 percent in Canada. In
Canada, the sales decline was due to generic erosion of Paxil IR,
Advairmaintained its strong growth with sales of £1,330 million,
excluding this element, Canada grew 4.5 per cent.
up 20 per cent. However, this adversely affected sales of its
constituent products, Floventand Serevent,which both showed Japan recorded turnover growth of five per cent, despite routine
declines. Flonase, indicated for the treatment of perennial rhinitis, government price reductions being implemented in 2004. Paxilup
grew by nine per cent. 25 per cent, Sereventup 74 per cent and Valtrexup 16 per cent
performed particularly well offsetting small declines in Zantacand
Sales of Wellbutrinproducts fell 12 per cent to £735million.
Zovirax.
Wellbutrin IR and SRsales fell 65 per cent to £270 million as a
result of generic competition. The impact was partially offset, Across all markets in International, the key products driving
however, by the exceptionally strong performance of Wellbutrin XL, growthwere Seretide, which grew 15 per cent to record sales
the new once-daily product, which achieved sales of £465 million of £229 million, Avandia/Avandamet, which grew 62 per cent to
in its first full year on the market. £161 million and the vaccines franchise,which recorded growth
of 21 per cent and achieved sales of £405 million.
Total sales of the Paxil franchise were down 51 per cent to
£519 million as a result of generic competition to Paxil IR(sales
Consumer Healthcare sales
of which declined 82 percent to £131 million). Mitigating this
2004 2003 Growth
decline was the performance of Paxil CR which generated sales £m £m CER% £%
of £388 million, up 13 per cent. OTC medicines 1,489 1,556 2 (4)
Analgesics 349 342 7 2
Sales in the anti-virals therapeutic area grew 12 per cent with HIV
Dermatological 193 237 (14) (19)
products up four per cent. Valtrex, for herpes, grew 30 per cent
Gastro-intestinal 256 283 (1) (10)
driven bypatients switching to suppression therapy.
Respiratory tract 152 151 4 1
Sales ofAvandia/Avandametincreased by 26 per cent. Anti- Smoking control 341 325 14 5
bacterial sales declined 24 per cent as a result of generic Natural wellness support 156 166 (1) (6)
competition that began in the third quarter of 2002. Coregsales
increased 37 per cent as it continued to benefit from its wide Oral care 1,088 1,082 4 1
range of indications. Nutritional healthcare 636 622 5 2
3,213 3,260 3 (1)
Vaccines grew six per cent reflecting the good performance of
Pediarix. The growth in Consumer Healthcare sales ofthreeper cent to
£3.2 billioncomprised an OTC medicines sales increase oftwo
Europe per cent, a Nutritional healthcare sales increase offiveper cent
The discussion of individual market performance in the Europe and Oral care sales increase offourper cent.
region is on aturnover created basisrather than aturnover
invoiced basis.
OTCmedicines
Europe region contributed 30 per cent of pharmaceutical turnover. OTCmedicine sales were £1.5billion, up two per cent. Sales
Although overall turnover growth in the region was only two per growthfrom smoking control products in the USA,up 12 per cent,
cent, good growth was recorded in Spain andSouthernand and Europe,up 24 per cent,helped to offset the decline in
Eastern Europe. Government healthcare reforms, including pricing dermatological products, which weredown 14 per cent due to
and reimbursement restrictions, adversely affected turnover in generic competition to Cutivate in the USA. Expansion of the
France, Italy and Germany. Panadol brand in International markets helpedanalgesics grow
seven per cent.
Seretide, GlaxoSmithKline’s largest selling product in Europe, grew
18 per cent and reported notable growth inSpain and the UK. In July, GlaxoSmithKline obtained theOTCmarketing rights in the
Seretideand its constituent products Sereventand Flixotidegrew USA for orlistat, an FDA-approved prescription product for obesity
eight per cent. management marketed by Roche as Xenical.
The decline in sales of theherpes franchise was mainly as a result
Oral care
of generic competition for Zoviraxpartially offset by patients Oral care sales were £1.1 billion, up four per cent. Strong
switching to the newer product, Valtrex. growth in Internationalofnineper cent was led by the
Seroxatsales were down31 per cent reflecting generic competition Sensodyne, Polidentand Poligripbrands.
inthe UKand France.
Nutritional healthcare
Anti-bacterial sales declined six per cent due to generic Sales of Nutritional healthcare products grew five per cent to
competition throughout the region £0.6 billion. Lucozade grew seven per cent to £268 million.
Vaccines grew by seven per cent driven by thehepatitis franchise
andInfanrix.66 GlaxoSmithKline Operating and financial review and prospects
2004 Year continued
Trading profit – statutory results Trading profit
Overall the trading margin declined 0.2 percentage points as
For 2004 the Group is reporting results on a statutory basis only.
trading profit of £6,150 million declined six per cent in sterling
The analysis below of trading profit and subsequent discussion
terms. At constant exchange rates trading profit increased
compares the 2004 results with 2003 statutory results.
five per cent and the margin decreased 0.2 percentage points
2003 reflecting the completion of the merger and manufacturing
2004 (restated) Growth
restructuring programme in 2003, lower charges relating to
£m % £m % CER% £%
programmes to deliver future cost savings offset by higher
Turnover 20,359 100.0 21,441 100.0 1 (5)
legal provisions and increased R&D expenditure.
Cost of sales (4,309) (21.2) (4,544) (21.2) (1) (5)
Selling, general Profit before taxation - statutory results
and administration (7,061) (34.7) (7,597) (35.4) (2) (7)
The analysis and discussion below of profit before taxation relates
Research and
to statutory performance.
development (2,839) (13.9) (2,791) (13.0) 7 2
Trading profit 6,150 30.2 6,509 30.4 5 (6) Other operating income/(expense) 20 £0 m4 20 £0 m3
Royalties and other income 96 75
In 2004, the Group adopted UITF Abstract 38 and the revised Other operating expense (296) (436)
Abstract 17 relating to shares held by the ESOP Trusts and share
(200) (361)
options and awards. Comparative information for 2003 has been
Income from equity investments and
restated accordingly. Trading profit and profit before tax in 2003
other disposals 140 228
have been reduced by £16 million and net assets at 31st
December 2003 by £2,661 million. (60) (133)
Other operating expense includes litigation costs and provisions
Cost of sales
relating to legal claims on withdrawn products, product
Cost of sales as a percentage of turnover remained in line with
withdrawals, anti-trust matters and claims with respect to sales,
the prior year as reduced merger and manufacturing restructuring
marketing and reimbursement. Income from equity investments
costs were offset by a significant weakening of the US dollar
and other disposals includes equity investment carrying value
relative to last year, the loss of higher margin Paxil IRand
adjustments arising from stock market changes, product disposals
Wellbutrin SRsales to generics, and an adverse product mix.
and equity investment sales.
Merger and manufacturing restructuring costs were nil in 2004
but £356 million in 2003. Other operating expense was £60 million in the year compared
with £133 million in 2003. The charge in 2004 reflects provisions
Selling, general and administration related to litigation matters and other legal matters, partly offest
Selling, general and administration (SG&A) costs declined two by minor product divestments, sales of equity investments and
per cent (seven per cent in sterling terms) reflecting savings in other income. The net charge from legal provisions and gain on
general and administration that were partly offset by increased sales of equity investments was lower in 2004 compared with
advertising, promotion and selling costs. These latter costs last year.
increased three per cent, and accounted for a one percentage
point increase in total SG&A. General and administration costs Share of profits/(losses) of joint ventures and associated
declined eight per cent and accounted for a three percentage undertakings
point reduction in total SG&A. This was due to lower charges The share of profits of associates arises principally from the
related to programmes to deliver future cost savings (equal to Group’s holding inQuest Diagnostics Inc.
a two percentage point reduction in total SG&A) and other general
expense reductions (equal to a three percentage point decline in Disposal ofinterest in associates
total SG&A). These reductions were partly offset by higher During 2004, the Group disposed of 3.8 million shares from
provisions for legal matters, equivalent to a two percentage point its investment in Quest Diagnostics Inc. for cash proceedsof
increase in total SG&A. Net of currency movements, there was an £188 million, reducing the Group’s shareholding at
overall reduction of 0.7 percentage points relative to 31st December 2004 to 18.6 per cent. After recognising a
2003 forexpenses expressed as a percentage of turnover. chargeof£17 millionfor goodwill previously written off to
reservesa profit of £139 million was recognised.
The higher provisions for legal matters include a charge of
£141 million inQuarter 4 2004 related to the introduction of an 2004 2003
IBNR(incurred but not reported) actuarial technique to determine Net interest payable £m £m
a reasonable estimate of the Group’s exposure for unasserted Interest payable (298) (214)
claims in relation to a number of product liability matters. Investment income 102 61
(196) (153)
Research and development Share of interest payable of associate (7) (8)
R&D expenditure increased seven per cent reflecting increased
(203) (161)
clinical trial activity. Pharmaceuticals R&D expenditure represented
15.9 per cent of pharmaceutical turnover in the year. Net interest payable increased compared with 2003 largely as a
result of higher average effective Group interest rate and higher
borrowings.Operating and financial review and prospectsGlaxoSmithKline 67
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation - statutory Research and development
results Research and development (R&D) increased eight per cent
Taking account of net other operating income/(expenses), the reflecting increased clinical trial activity. Pharmaceuticals R&D
contribution from associates, business disposals and net interest expenditure represented 15.9 per cent of pharmaceutical
payable, statutory profit before tax was £6,119 million compared turnover in the year.
with £6,313 million in 2003, an increase of eight per cent
(three per cent decline in sterling). Trading profit
Trading profit was £6,150 million, a one per cent decrease (11
Trading profit – business performance per cent decline in sterling terms) compared with 2003 business
performance. The trading margin declined two percentage points
During the years 2000 to 2003, business performance was the
compared with 2003. Net of currency movements the
primary performance measureused by management and was
margin declined 0.7 percentage points, reflecting higher R&D
presented after excluding merger items, integration and
expenditure, a higher cost ofsales due to a less favourable product
restructuring costs and disposal of businesses, as management
mixand higherprovisionsfor legal matters, partially offset by cost
believesthat exclusion of these items providesa better comparison
savings initiatives in general and administration and lower charges
of business performance for the periods presented. For 2004,
related toprogrammesto deliver future cost savings.
with the completion of these programmes, the Group is reporting
results on a statutory basis only. The analysis below of trading
Profit before taxation - business performance
profit and subsequent discussion compares the 2004 results with
2003 business performance results. Accordingly this information The analysis and discussion below of profit before taxation
is provided as a supplement to that contained inthe consolidated relates tostatutory performance in 2004 and business
statement of profit and loss on pages90and91prepared in performance in 2003.
accordance with UKGAAP.
2004 2003
Other operating income/(expense) £m £m
2003
2004 restated Growth Royalties and other income 96 75
£m % £m % CER% £% Other operating expense (296) (436)
Turnover 20,359 100.0 21,441 100.0 1 (5)
(200) (361)
Cost of sales (4,309) (21.2) (4,188) (19.5) 7 3 Income from equity investments and
Selling, general other disposals 140 228
and administration (7,061) (34.7) (7,579) (35.4) (2) (7)
(60) (133)
Research and
development (2,839) (13.9) (2,770) (12.9) 8 2 Other operating expense includes litigation costs and provisions
Trading profit 6,150 30.2 6,904 32.2 (1) (11) relating to legal claims on withdrawn products, product
withdrawals, anti-trust matters and claims with respect to sales,
marketing and reimbursement. Income from equity investments
Cost of sales
and other disposals includes equity investment carrying value
Cost of salesincreasedas a percentage of turnover as a result of a
adjustments arising from stock market changes, product disposals
significant weakening of the USdollar relative to2003, the loss of
and equity investment sales.
higher margin Paxil IR and Wellbutrin SR sales to generics andan
adverseproduct mix. Other operating expensewas£60million in the year compared
with £133 million in 2003.The charge in 2004 reflects provisions
Selling, general and administration related tolegal matters, partly offset by minor product
SG&Acosts declined twoper cent(seven per cent in sterling terms) divestments, sales of equity investments and other income.
reflecting savings in general and administration that were partly
offset by increased advertising, promotion and selling costs. These Share of profits/(losses) of joint ventures and associated
latter costs increased three percent, and accounted for a one undertakings
percentage point increase in total SG&A. General and The share of profits of associates arises principally from the
administration costs declined eight percent and accounted for a Group’s holding inQuest DiagnosticsInc.
three percentage point reduction in total SG&A. This was due to
lower chargesrelated to programmes to deliverfuture cost savings Disposal ofinterest in associates
(equal to a two percentage point reduction in total SG&A) and During 2004, the Group disposed of 3.8 million shares from
other general expense reductions (equal to a three percentage its investment in Quest Diagnostics Inc. for cash proceeds
point decline in total SG&A). These reductions were partly offset by of £188 million, reducing the Group’s shareholding at
higherprovisionsfor legal matters, equivalent to a two percentage 31st December 2004 to 18.6 per cent. After recognisinga
point increase in total SG&A. Net of currency movements, there charge of £17 million for goodwill previously written off to
was an overallreduction of 0.7 percentage points relative to 2003 reservesa profit of £139 million was recognised.
forexpenses expressed as a percentage
of turnover.
The higher provisions for legal matters include a charge of
£141 million in Quarter 4 2004 related to the introduction of an
IBNR(incurred but not reported) actuarial technique to determine
a reasonable estimate of the Group’s exposure for unasserted
claims in relation to a number of product liability matters.68 GlaxoSmithKline Operating and financial review and prospects
2004 Year continued
2004 2003 If the IRS claimsfor the years 1989-2000were upheld, the Group
Net interest payable £m £m would additionally be liable for interest on late payment,estimated
Interest payable (298) (214) to amount to$3.0 billion, net of federal tax relief,at
Investment income 102 61 31st December 2004, giving a totalof $7.6 billionfor the years
(196) (153) 1989-2000. The Group expects to filea petition against thetax
Share of interest payable of associate (7) (8) claims for1997-2000 in April 2005, including a further claim for
refund of taxes, and will ask the Tax Court to consolidate the IRS
(203) (161)
claims for all the years 1989-2000into a single trial.A provisional
trial date for the 1989-1996 claims has been set for October 2006.
Net interest payable increased compared with 2003 largelyas a
result of a higher average effective Group interest rate and higher As similar tax issues remain open for 2001 to date,
borrowings. GlaxoSmithKline expects to receive further substantial claims by the
IRS for these years.GlaxoSmithKline continues to believe that the
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation - business profits reported by its US subsidiaries for the period 1989 to date,
performance on which it has paid taxes in the USA, are more than sufficient to
Taking account of net other operating income/(expense), the reflect the activities of its US operations.
contribution from associates and net interest payable,statutory
TheGroupis in continuing discussions with the Inland Revenue in
proffit before taxwas£6,119million, compared withbusiness
respect of UK transfer pricing disputes.
performance profit before tax of £6,703million in 2003, an
increase oftwoper cent(decline in sterling terms of nine per cent). GlaxoSmithKline uses the best advice in determining its transfer
pricing methodology and in seeking to manage transfer pricing
Merger and manufacturing restructuring
issues to a satisfactory conclusion and, on the basis ofexternal
The merger and manufacturing programmes were substantially
professional advice, continues to believe that it has made adequate
completed in 2003;consequently the Group is only reporting
provision for the liabilities likely to arise from open assessments.
statutory results in 2004.The costs of these programmes in 2003
were £390million (£281million after tax). However, there continues to be a wide difference of views
between the Group, the IRS, the Inland Revenue and other relevant
Taxation taxationauthorities where open issues exist. The ultimate liability
2003
for such matters may vary from amounts provided and is
2004 (restated)
£m £m dependent upon the outcome of litigation proceedings and
Business performance (1,701) (1,838) negotiations with the relevant tax authorities.
Merger, restructuring and disposal
Except as shown in this Annual Report, no provision has been
of subsidiaries – 109
made for taxation which would arise on the distribution of profits
Total (1,701) (1,729) retained by overseas subsidiary and associated undertakings, on
the grounds that no remittance of profit retained at 31st December
The integrated nature of the Group’s worldwide operations,
2004 is required in such a way that incremental tax will arise.
involving significant investment in research and strategic
manufacture at a limited number of locations, with consequential Earnings 2003 Growth
cross-border supply routes into numerous end-markets, gives rise 2004 (restated) CER% £%
to complexity and delay in negotiations with revenue authorities as Statutory earnings (£m) 4,302 4,478 7 (4)
to the profits on which individual Group companies are liable to Basic earnings per share 75.0p 77.1p 8 (3)
tax. Disagreements with, and between, revenue authorities as to Basic earnings per ADS $2.74 $2.53 8 8
intra-Group transactions, in particular the price at which goods
should be transferred between Group companies in different tax Adjusted earnings (£m) 4,302 4,759 1 (10)
jurisdictions, can produce conflicting claims from revenue Adjusted earnings per share 75.0p 82.0p 2 (9)
authorities as to the profits to be taxed in individual territories. Adjusted earnings per ADS $2.74 $2.69 2 2
Resolution of such issues is a continuing fact of life for Weighted average number
GlaxoSmithKline.The Group has open issues with the revenue of shares (millions) 5,736 5,806
authorities in the USA, UK, Japan and Canada.By far the largest
relates to Glaxo heritage products, in respect of which the US Adjusted earnings and adjusted earnings per share are presented
Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and UK Inland Revenue have made above in order to illustrate business performance.
competing and contradictory claims.
During the years 2000 to 2003, business performance was the
GlaxoSmithKline has attempted to settle the US dispute, first primary performance measure used by management and was
through direct discussion with the IRS and subsequently through presented after excluding merger items, integration and
discussions between the US and UK authorities under the terms of restructuring costs and disposals of businesses. Management
the double tax convention between the two countries and believesthat exclusion of these items providesa better comparison
discussions were terminated in July 2003.On 6th January 2004, ofbusinessperformancefor the periods presented.For 2004,
the IRS issued a Notice of Deficiency for the years 1989-1996 with the completion of these programmes, the Group is reporting
claiming additional taxes of $2.7 billion. On 2nd April 2004 the results on a statutory basis only.
Group filed a petition in the US Tax Court disputing the IRS claim
and seeking a refund of $1 billion in taxes.On 25th January 2005
the IRS issued a further Notice of Deficiency for the years 1997-
2000 claiming additional taxes of $1.9 billion.Operating and financial review and prospectsGlaxoSmithKline 69
Adjusted earnings increased one per cent. Adjusted earnings The Group’s largest business is US pharmaceuticals, and the
per share increased two per cent reflecting the reduction in the US market has the most complex arrangements for rebates,
weighted average number of shares resulting from the Group’s discounts and allowances. The following briefly describes the
share buy-back programme. The interest cost of this programme nature of the arrangements in existence in the Group’s US
also impacts the Group’s earnings. pharmaceuticals business.
At actual rates of exchange, adjusted earnings per share • The US Medicaid programme is a state-administered
declined nine per cent. The adverse currency impact on EPS of programme providing assistance to certain poor and
11percentage pointsreflects the significant weakening of the US vulnerable patients. In 1990, the Medicaid Drug Rebate
dollar relative to 2003 and compares with a six per cent adverse Programwas established to reduce state and federal
currency impact on turnover. This difference principally arises from expenditure on prescription drugs. GlaxoSmithKline
a different mix of currencies in profits compared with turnover. participates by providing rebates to states. Provisions for
Medicaid rebates are calculated based on the specific
Statutory EPS in 2004 was75.0 pence compared with77.1
terms of individual state agreements using a combination
pence in 2003.The sterling based decline in statutory EPS of
of historical experience, product and population growth,
three per cent reflected the significant weakening of the dollar.
anticipated price increases and the impact of contracting
Excluding the effects ofcurrency, statutory EPS grew eight per cent
strategies
reflecting the completion of the Group’s merger and restructuring
programmesin 2003as well as underlying business growth. • GlaxoSmithKline has arrangements with certain key parties,
whereby the party is able to buy products from wholesalers at
Dividend lower prices. A chargeback represents the difference between
The Board has declared a fourth interim dividend of12pence the invoice price to the wholesaler and the indirect customer’s
per share making a total for the year of42pence per share. This contractual discounted price. Provisions for estimating
compares with a total dividend of 41pence per share for 2003. chargebacks are calculated based on thetermsofeach
The equivalent dividend receivable by ADR holders is44.438cents agreement, historical experience and product growth rates
per ADS based on an exchange rate of £1/$1.8516. The dividend
• Customer rebates are offered to key managed care and group
will have an ex-dividend date of 16th February 2005 and will be
purchasing organisations and other direct and indirect
paid on 7th April 2005 to shareholders and ADR holders of record
customers. These arrangements require the customer to
on 18th February 2005.
achieve certain performance targets relating to value of
product purchased, formulary status or pre-determined
Critical accounting policies
market sharesrelative to competitors. The provision for these
The consolidatedFinancial statements are prepared in accordance rebates is estimated based on the specific terms in each
with UKgenerally accepted accounting principles, following the agreement, historical experience and product growth rates
accounting policies approved by the Board and described in
• Cash discounts are offered to customers to encourage
Note2to the Financial statements, ‘Accounting policies’.
prompt payment. These are accrued for at the time of
Management is required to make estimates and assumptions that
invoicing and adjusted subsequently to reflect actual
affect the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses
experience
reported in theFinancial statements. Actual amounts and results
could differ from those estimates. The following are considered to • Where there is historical experience of customer returns,
be the critical accounting policies adopted. GlaxoSmithKline records a provision for estimated sales returns
by applying historical experience of customer returns to the
Turnover amounts invoiced, together with market related information
Revenue is recognised when title and risk of loss is passed to such as stock levels at wholesalers, anticipated price increases
the customerand reliable estimates can be made of relevant andcompetitor activity.
deductions. Gross turnover is reduced by rebates, discounts,
A reconciliation of gross turnover to net turnover for the US
allowances and product returns given or expected to be given,
pharmaceuticals business in 2004 is as follows:
which vary by product arrangements and buying groups. These
arrangements with purchasing organisations are dependent £m %
upon the submission of claims some time after the initial
Gross turnover 10,835 100
recognition of the sale.Provisions aremade at the time of sale
for the estimated rebates, discountsor allowancespayable or USGovernment and State programmes 734 7
returnsto be made, based on available market information and Chargebacks 732 7
historical experience. Because the amounts are estimated they Managed care and group purchasing
may not fully reflect the final outcome,andtheamounts are organisation rebates 575 5
subject to change dependent upon, amongst other things, the Cash discounts 208 2
types of buying group and product sales mix. The level of provision Customer returns 86 1
is reviewedand adjusted quarterlyin the light of historical Other 75 –
experience of actual rebates, discounts or allowances given and Total deductions 2,410 22
returns made and any changes in arrangements. Future events
Net turnover 8,425 78
could cause the assumptions on which theprovisionsare based
to change, which could affect the future results of the Group.70 GlaxoSmithKlineOperating and financial review and prospects
2004 Year continued
The total provisions for rebates, discounts, allowances and returns Intangible assets
in the US pharmaceuticals business at 31st December 2004 and Where intangible assets are acquired by GlaxoSmithKline from
31st December 2003wereas follows: third parties the costs of acquisition are capitalised. Licences to
compounds in development are amortised over their estimated
At 31st At 31st
December December useful lives, but not exceeding 15 years. Estimated useful lives are
2004 2003
£m £m reviewed annually and impairment reviews are undertaken if
events occur which call into question the carrying values of the
USGovernment and State programmes 362 262
assets. Brands acquired with businesses are capitalised
Chargebacks 50 49
independently where they are separable and have a long-term
Managed care and group purchasing
value to the Group. Brands are amortised over their estimated
organisation rebates 297 311
useful lives, not exceeding 20 years, except where the end of the
Cash discounts 19 18
useful economic life cannot be foreseen. Where brands are not
Customer returns 97 112
amortised, they are subject to annual impairment reviews.
Other 31 38
Impairment reviews are based on risk-adjusted future cash flows
Total 856 790
discounted using appropriate risk-free interest rates. These future
cash flows are based on business forecasts and are therefore
Amonthly process is operated to monitorstock levels at inherently judgemental. Future events could cause the values of
wholesalersfor any abnormal movements. This process usesgross these intangible assets to be impaired and this would have an
sales volumes, prescription volumes based on third party data adverse effect on the future results of the Group.
sources and information received from key wholesalers.The aim
of this is to maintain stocks at a consistent level from year to year Pensions and post-retirement benefits
based on the pattern of consumption. The costs of providing pensions and other post-retirement benefits
are charged to the profit and loss account in accordance with SSAP
On this basis, US pharmaceutical stock levels at wholesalers and in
24 over the period during which benefit is derived from the
other distribution channels at 31st December 2004 were estimated
employee’s services. The costs are assessed in accordance with
to amount to less than one month ofturnover. This calculation
advice received from independent actuaries on the basis of
uses third party information, the accuracy of which cannot be
assumptions selected by management. These assumptions include
totally verified, but which is believed to be sufficiently reliable for
future earnings and pension increases, discount rates and expected
this purpose.
long term rates of return on assets and are disclosed in Note35to
the Financial statements, ‘Employee costs’. The expected long term
Legal and other disputes
rates of return on assets are determined based on long term
GlaxoSmithKline provides for anticipated settlement costs where a
government bond rates adjusted for risk and current market
reasonable estimate may be made of the likely outcome of the
expectations. This Note also gives the additional disclosures
dispute andlegal and otherexpenses arising fromclaims against
required by FRS17 ‘Retirement Benefits’. The selection of different
theGroup.The company’s Directors, having taken legal advice,
assumptions could affect the future results of the Group.
have established provisions after taking into account insurance and
other agreements and having regard to the relevant facts and
Product rights and goodwill
circumstances of each matter and in accordance with accounting
In addition to the critical accounting policies outlined above, the
requirements. Provisions for product liability claims on certain
accounting policy for product rights and goodwill is deemed to
products have been made on an‘incurred but not reported’ basis
be important in respect of the balance sheet prepared in
where sufficient history of claims made and settlements is
accordance with US accounting principles. Under USGAAP the
available. No provisions have been made for other unasserted
merger of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham in 2000 was
claims or for claims for which no reasonable estimate of the likely
accounted for as an acquisition which gave rise to product rights
outcome can yet be made. The ultimate liability for pending and
of £24 billion and goodwill of £16 billion being recognised.
unasserted claims may vary from the amounts provided, if any,
Goodwill and those product rights determined to have indefinite
and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation proceedings,
lives are not amortised but rather reviewed annually for
investigations and possible settlement negotiations.
impairment. These impairment reviews assess business projections
prepared as part of the Group’s annual budgeting and planning
Impairment of fixed assets
process to determine whether or not an impairment in the value
The carrying values of fixed assets subject to depreciation and
of the goodwill has occurred. The business projections include
amortisation are reviewed for impairment when there is an
assumptions about future events. Changes in future events could
indication that the values of the assets might be impaired.
cause the assumptions in the business projections to change with
Impairment is determined by reference to the higher of net
a consequent adverse effect on the future results of the Group as
realisable value and value in use, measured by reference to risk-
reported under USGAAP.
adjusted future cashflows discounted using appropriate risk-free
interest rates. These future cashflows are based on business
forecasts and are therefore inherently judgemental. Future events
could cause the assumptions used in these impairment reviews to
change with a consequent adverse effect on the future results of
the Group.Operating and financial review and prospectsGlaxoSmithKline 71
Financial position and resources
Financial position The Group observes stringent procedures and uses specialist skills
to manage environmental risks from these activities. Environmental
2003
2004 (restated) issues, sometimes dating from operations now modified or
£m £m
discontinued, are reported under ‘Responsibility for environment,
Goodwill 139 143 health and safety’ (page31) and in Note30to the Financial
Intangible fixed assets 2,003 1,697 statements, ‘Legal proceedings’. GlaxoSmithKline believes that
Tangible fixed assets 6,471 6,441 its facilities are adequate for its current needs.
Investments 332 294
Investments
Fixed assets 8,945 8,575
GlaxoSmithKline heldinvestmentswith a carrying value at
31st December 2004 of£485million(2003 – £458 million).
Equity investments 153 164
The market value at 31st December 2004 was £1,292million
Stocks 2,192 2,109
(2003 – £1,279 million). The investments, which include associates
Debtors 7,309 6,897
and joint ventures, are mainly in equity shares where the holding
Liquid investments 2,818 2,493
derives directly from the Group’s business. These investments
Cash at bank 1,161 962
include stakes in companies where the Group has research
Current assets 13,633 12,625
collaborations, which provide access to biotechnology
Loans and overdrafts (1,582) (1,452) developments of potential interest or interests in companies that
Other creditors (7,140) (7,019) arise from business divestments.
Creditors: amounts due within one year (8,722) (8,471)
Debtors
Net current assets 4,911 4,154
Debtors increased in 2004 reflecting the timing of year-end
Total assets less current liabilities 13,856 12,729 receipts, a higher deferred tax asset, insurance receivables and
additional cash contributions into the UKpension plan.
Loans (4,381) (3,651)
Other creditors (244) (232)
Provisions
Creditors: amounts due after one year (4,625) (3,883) The Group carried provisions of £3,029 million at 31st December
Provisions for liabilities and charges (3,029) (3,042) 2004 in respect of estimated future liabilities, of which
£1,074 million related to legal and other disputes and
Net assets 6,202 5,804
£785million related to pensions and other post-retirement
Called up share capital 1,484 1,487 benefitsfor employees.
Share premium account 304 264
Provision has been made for tax, legal and other disputes,
Other reserves (644) (804)
indemnified disposal liabilities and the costs of manufacturing
Profit and loss account 4,781 4,112
restructuring and merger integration to the extent that at the
Equity shareholders’ funds 5,925 5,059 balance sheet date an actual or constructive obligation existed
and could be reasonably estimated.
Non-equity minority interests – 503
Equity minority interests 277 242
Net debt
Capital employed 6,202 5,804 Group net debt at 31st December comprised:
2004 2003
Tangible fixed assets £m £m
The total costof the Group’s tangible fixed assets at
Cash and liquid investments 3,979 3,455
31st December 2004 was £12.9 billion, with a net book value of
Borrowings – repayable within one year (1,582) (1,452)
£6.5 billion. Of this, land and buildings represented£2.8 billion,
Borrowings – repayable after one year (4,381) (3,651)
plant and equipment£2.8 billion, computer software£0.2 billion
Net debt (1,984) (1,648)
and assets in construction£0.7 billion. In2004, GlaxoSmithKline
invested £993million in new andrenewal property, plant and
Net debtincreasedby £336 million in 2004 to £1,984million
equipment. This is mainly related to a large number of projects for
primarily due tothe negative impact of foreign exchange on
the improvement and expansion of facilities at various worldwide
operating cash flows, the redemption of preference shares
sites. Property is mainly heldfreehold. New investment is financed
issued by a subsidiary, the settlement of some legal matters
from Group liquid resources. At 31st December 2004, the Group
and the acquisition of the Fraxiparine and Arixtra business
had capital contractual commitments for future expenditure of
from Sanofi-Synthelabo.
some £235 million and 2005 operating lease commitments of
£83 million.
Pensions
GlaxoSmithKline’s business is science-based, technology-intensive The Group continues to account for pension arrangements in
and highly regulated by governmental authorities. It allocates accordance with SSAP 24. Under the transitional provisions of
significant financial resources to the renewal and maintenance of FRS 17 the disclosed pension assets and liabilities of the Group at
its property, plant and equipment to minimise risks of interruption 31st December 2004 show a net deficit after allowing for deferred
of production and to achieve compliance with regulatory taxation of £1,020million (2003– £1,300 million).Special cash
standards. A number of its processes use chemicals and hazardous contributions of £256million were made in 2004to reduce the
materials. funding deficits in the UK and US plans.This position will be
reviewed annually andfurther contributions made as appropriate.72 GlaxoSmithKlineOperating and financial review and prospects
Financial position and resources continued
Shareholders’ funds Commitments and contingent liabilities
A summary of the movements in equity shareholders’ funds Financial commitments are summarised in Note26to the
is set out below. Financial statements, ‘Commitments’. Other contingent liabilities
and obligations in respect of short and long-term debt are set
2003
2004 (restated) out in Note24to the Financial statements, ‘Contingent
£m £m
liabilities’ and Note25to the Financial statements, ‘Net debt’.
At beginning of year,as previously reported 7,720 6,581
Amounts provided for pensions and post-retirement benefits,
Prior period adjustment–implementation
restructuring and integration plans and legal, environmental
of UITF 17 (revised) and UITF 38 (2,661) (2,741)
and other disputes are set out inNote23to the Financial
Equity shareholders’funds at beginning
statements, ‘Provisions for liabilities and charges’.
ofyearas restated 5,059 3,840
Profit for the year 4,302 4,478
Contractual obligations and commitments
Dividends (2,402) (2,374)
The following table sets out the Group’s contractual obligations
Shares issued on exercise of share options 42 41
and commitments as they fall due for payment.
Own shares purchased (1,000) (980)
Investment in ESOPshares 26 33 Total Under 1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs+
Exchange movements (48) 106 £m £m £m £m £m
Goodwillwrittenback 20 – Loans 5,870 1,547 525 1,554 2,244
Unrealised (loss)/profit ondisposal Finance lease obligations 93 35 43 8 7
of intellectual property (1) 7 Operating lease
Tax on exchange movements and commitments 407 83 127 78 119
unrealised gains (73) (92) Intangible fixed assets 1,256 145 317 264 530
At end of year 5,925 5,059 Tangible fixed assets 235 208 27 – –
Other commitments 85 25 55 5 –
Equity shareholders’ fundsincreasedfrom £5,059 million at Total 7,946 2,043 1,094 1,909 2,900
31st December 2003 to £5,925million at 31st December 2004.
The increase arises from retained earningspartly offset by shares The Group has entered into a number of research collaborations
purchased and cancelledor held asTreasury shares,and to develop new compounds with other pharmaceutical
exchange movements on overseas net assets. companies. The terms of these arrangements can include up-
front fees, equity investments, loans and commitments to fund
Share purchases
specified levels of research. In addition the Group will often
In 2004, the ESOP Trusts did not make any market purchases of
agree to make further payments if future ‘milestones’ are
shares in GlaxoSmithKline plc (2003 – nil). Shares are held by the
achieved. As some of these agreements relate to compounds in
Trusts to satisfy future exercises of options and awards under the
the early stages of development, milestone payments will
Group share option and award schemes. A proportion of the
continue for a number of years if the compounds move
shares held by the Trusts are in respect of awards where the rules
successfully through the development process. Generally the
of the scheme require the company to satisfy exercises through
closer the product is to marketing approval the greater the
market purchases rather than the issue of new shares. The shares
possibility of success. The payments shown above represent the
held by the Trusts are matched to options and awards granted and
maximum that would be paid if all milestones are achieved. A
diminish the dilutive effect of new share issues on shareholders'
number of commitments were made in 2004 under licensing
capital and earnings.
and other agreements, principally withTheravance Inc., Tanabe
On 23rd October 2002, GlaxoSmithKline announced a second Seiyaka Co. Ltd, Exelixis Inc. and Human Genome SciencesInc..
share repurchase programme of £4 billion. At the 2004 Annual Pension commitments are provided in Note 35to the Financial
General Meetingshareholders renewed approval for statements, ‘Employee costs’.
GlaxoSmithKline to make market purchases of its own shares.
The exact amount and timing of future purchases will depend Contingent liabilities
on market conditions and other factors. In 2004, GlaxoSmithKline The following table sets out contingent liabilities, comprising
purchased a total of 88 million shares, at a cost of £1 billion, under discounted bills, performance guarantees and other items arising
this programme. Of the total shares purchased in 2004, 18 million in the normal course of business and when they are expected to
shares costing £201 million were cancelled, and the remaining expire.
70 million shares costing £799 million are held as Treasury shares. Total Under 1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs+
£m £m £m £m £m
At 31st December 2004 the ESOP Trusts held 174.5million
Guarantees 48 37 4 5 2
GlaxoSmithKline shares, at a carrying value of £2,574 million
Other contingent liabilities 159 16 7 2 134
and market value of £2,133 million, against the future exercise
of share options and share awards. Total 207 53 11 7 136Operating and financial review and prospectsGlaxoSmithKline 73
In the normal course of business the Group has provided various Investment appraisal
indemnification guarantees in respect of business disposals in GlaxoSmithKline has a formal process for assessing potential
which legal and other disputes have subsequently arisen. A investment proposals in order to ensure decisions are aligned with
provision is made where a reasonable estimate can be made of the Group’s overall strategy. This process includes an analysis of
the likely outcome of the dispute and this is included in Note23 the impact on profitand assessment of the return based on
to the Financial statements, ‘Provisions for liabilities and discounted cash flows. The discount rate used to perform financial
charges’. analysis is decided internally,to allow determination of the extent
to which investments cover the Group’s cost of capital. For specific
It is the Group’s policy to provide for the settlement costs of
investments the discount rate may be adjusted to take into account
asserted claims and environmental disputes when a reasonable
country or other risk weightings.
estimate may be made. Prior to this point no liability is recorded.
Legal and environmental costs are discussed in ‘Risk factors’ on
Capitalexpenditure and financial investment
pages76to78.
Cash payments fortangible and intangible fixed assets amounted
GlaxoSmithKline uses the best advice in determining its transfer to £1,043million (2003 – £1,062 million).Disposals realised
pricing methodology and, on the basis of external professional £53million (2003 – £46 million). Cash payments to acquire equity
advice, continues to believe that it has made adequate provision investments of£103million(2003 – £63 million) were madein
for the liabilities likely to arise from open taxation assessments. the year and sales of equity investments realised £58million
The ultimate liability for such matters may vary significantly from (2003 – £125 million).
amounts provided and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation
proceedings and negotiations with the relevant tax authorities. Future cash flow
This is discussed further in Note12to the Financial statements, The Group expects that future operating cash flow will be
‘Taxation’. sufficient to fund its operating and debt service costs, to satisfy
normal levels of capital expenditure, to meet obligations under
Cash flow existing licensing agreements and to meet other routine outflows
including tax and dividends, subject to the risk factors discussed
A summary of the consolidated cash flow statement is set out
on pages76 and 78. The Group may from time to time have
below:
additional demands for finance, such as for acquisitions. The
2003
2004 (restated) Group has access to other sources of liquidity from banks and
£m £m
other financial institutions, in addition to the cash flow from
Net cash inflow from operating activities 6,527 7,005 operations, forsuch needs.
Dividends from joint ventures and
associated undertakings 11 1 Payment policies
Returns on investment and servicing of finance (252) (231)
Group companies are responsible for monitoring and managing
Taxation paid (1,583) (1,917)
their working capital. The terms of sales collections and supplier
Capital expenditure and financial investment (1,035) (954)
paymentsreflect local commercial practice.
Acquisitions and disposals (69) (12)
Equity dividends paid (2,475) (2,333) In the UK, the company and each of its UK subsidiaries have
Net cash inflowbefore management policies to ensure that suppliers are paid on time. In particular,
of liquid resources and financing 1,124 1,559 the UK companies seek:
Management of liquid resources (413) (1,336)
• to settle terms of payment with suppliers when agreeing the
Shares purchased (1,000) (980)
terms of the transaction
Other financing 546 730
• to ensure that suppliers are made aware of the agreed terms
Increase/(decrease)in cash in the year 257 (27) ofpayment
• to abide by the terms of payment.
Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt
The policy includes arrangements for accelerated payment of
2004 2003 small suppliers.
£m £m
Net debt at beginning of year (1,648) (2,335) Payment performance
Increase/(decrease)in cash in the year 257 (27) At 31st December 2004, the average number of days’ purchases
Cash outflowfrom management represented by trade and fixed asset creditors of the parent
of liquid resources 413 1,336 company wasnil(2003 – nil) and in respect of the company and
Net increase in long-term loans (1,350) (1,023) its UK subsidiaries in aggregate was21days(2003 – 21 days).
Net repayment of short-term loans 407 442
Exchange and other movements (63) (41)
Net debt at end of year (1,984) (1,648)
The net cash inflow from operating activities was £6,527million,
adecreaseof £478million over 2003, arising from thenegative
impact of foreign exchange and the settlement of some legal
matters.74 GlaxoSmithKlineOperating and financial review and prospects
Financial position and resources continued
Treasury policies Liquid assets surplus to the immediate operating requirements
of Group companies are generally investedand managed
GlaxoSmithKline plcreportsin sterling and paysdividends out of
centrally by Corporate Treasury. Requirements of Group
sterling profits. The role of Corporate Treasury in GlaxoSmithKline
companies for operating finance are met whenever possible
is to manage and monitor the Group’s external and internal
from central resources.
funding requirements and financial risks in support of Group
corporate objectives. Treasury activities are governed by policies External borrowings, mainly managed centrally by Corporate
and procedures approved by the Board and monitored by a Treasury, comprise a portfolio of long and medium-term
treasurymanagement group. instruments and short-term finance.
GlaxoSmithKline maintains treasury control systems and procedures GlaxoSmithKline does not hold or issue derivative financial
to monitor foreign exchange, interest rate, liquidity, credit and instruments for trading purposes and the Group’s Treasury policies
other financial risks. specifically prohibit such activity. All transactions in financial
instruments are undertaken to manage the risks arising from
Liquidity underlying business activities, not for speculation.
The Group operates globally, primarily through subsidiary
companies established in the markets in which the Group trades. Funding, maturity and counterparty risk
Due to the nature of the Group’s business, with patent protection The Group invests centrally managed liquid assets ingovernment
on many ofthe products in the Group’s portfolio, the Group’s bonds, short-term corporate debt instruments with a minimum
products compete largely on product efficacy rather than on price. short-term credit rating of A-1/P-1, money market funds with a
Selling margins are sufficient to cover normal operating costs and credit rating of AAA/Aaa and fully collateralised preference share
the Group’s operating subsidiaries are substantially cash generative. investments. (Credit ratings shown are from Standard and Poor’s
Operating cash flow is used to fund investment in the research and and Moody’s Investors’ Services respectively).
development of new products as well as routine outflows of capital
The Group manages its net borrowing requirements through a
expenditure, tax, dividends and repayment of maturing debt. The
portfolio of long and medium-term borrowings, including bonds,
Group may, from time to time, have additional demands for
together with short-term finance under the US $10 billion
finance, such as for share purchases and acquisitions.
commercial paper programme.In April 2004a$500 million
GlaxoSmithKline operates with a high level of interest cover and at 3 year 2.375per cent coupon bond, a $500 million10 year 4.375
low levels of net debt relative to itsmarket capitalisation. In per cent coupon bond and a$1,500million30 year 5.375 per cent
addition tothe strong positive cash flow from normal trading coupon bond were issued under theUSShelf Registration
activities, additional liquidity is readily available via itscommercial established in March 2004.
paperprogramme and short-term investments. The Group also has
The Group’s medium-term borrowings mature at dates between
an uncommitted Euro Medium Term Note programme of £5 billion,
2005 and 2014, the private financing matures in 2032, the long-
of which £2,526 million was in issue at 31st December 2004.
dated sterling bond matures in 2033 and the long-dated dollar
In March 2004, the Group established a USShelf Registration of
bond matures in 2034. The private financing may be redeemed by
$5 billion; at 31st December 2004 $2,477 (£1,290) million was
GlaxoSmithKline at any time and, in particular, in the event of any
in issue.
accelerating event that would increase the cost of funding for the
Group. GlaxoSmithKline’s long-term debt rating is AA from
Treasury operations
Standard and Poor’s and Aa2 from Moody’s Investors’ Services.
The objective of treasury activity is to manage the post-tax net
The agencies’ short-term ratingsfor paper issued under the
cost/income of financial operations to the benefit of Group
Group’s commercial paper programmeareA-1+ and P-1
earnings. Corporate Treasury does not operate as a profit centre.
respectively.
GlaxoSmithKline uses a variety of financial instruments, including
derivatives, to finance its operations and to manage market risks Foreign exchange risk management
from those operations. Financial instruments comprise cash and In GlaxoSmithKlineforeign currency transaction exposure arising
liquid resources, borrowings and spot foreign exchange contracts. on normal trade flows,in respect of both external and intra-Group
trade,is not hedged. GlaxoSmithKline’s policy is to minimise the
A number of derivative financial instruments are used to manage exposure of overseas operating subsidiaries to transaction risk
the market risks from Treasury operations. Derivative instruments, bymatching local currency income with local currency costs.
principally comprising forward foreign currency contracts, interest Forthispurpose, intra-Group trading transactions are matched
rate and currency swaps, are used to swap borrowings and liquid centrally and intra-Group payment terms are managed to reduce
assets into the currencies required for Group purposes and to risk. Exceptional foreign currency cash flows are hedged selectively
manage exposure to funding risks from changes in foreign under the management of Corporate Treasury.
exchange rates and interest rates.
A significant proportion of Group borrowings, including the
GlaxoSmithKline balances the use of borrowings and liquid assets commercial paper programme, is in US dollars, to benefit from
having regard to: the cash flow from operating activities and the liquidity of US dollar denominated capital markets. Certain of
thecurrencies in which it is earned; the tax cost of intra-Group these and other borrowings are swapped into other currencies as
distributions; the currencies in which business assets are required for Group purposes. The Group seeks to denominate
denominated; and the post-tax cost of borrowings compared borrowings in the currencies of its principalassets.
tothepost-tax return on liquid assets.Operating and financial review and prospectsGlaxoSmithKline 75
Borrowings denominated in, or swapped into, foreign currencies Financial assets and liabilities
that match investments in overseas Group assets are treated as An analysis of net debt is given in Note25to the Financial
a hedge against the relevant net assets. statements, ‘Net debt’. An analysis of financial assets and liabilities
at carrying value and fair value and a reconciliation to net debt are
Based on the composition of net debt at 31st December 2004 a
given inNote34to the Financial statements, ‘Financial instruments
10per cent appreciation in sterling against major currencies
and related disclosures’, together with a discussion of derivative
would result in a reduction in the Group’s net debt of
financial instruments and quantitative disclosures about market
approximately£120million. A10 per cent weakening in sterling
riskin accordance with the requirements of Financial Reporting
against major currencies would result in an increase in the
Standard 13.
Group’s net debt of approximately £150million.
The Group continues to benefit from strong positive cash flow.
Interest rate risk management Group net debt would have decreased significantly in the year to
GlaxoSmithKline’s policy on interest rate risk management requires 31st December 2004, but for the Group’s purchase of its own
that the amount of net borrowings at fixed rates increases with the shares in the market of £1 billion.
ratio of forecast net interest payable to trading profit.
The financial assets and liabilities at 31st December 2004 are
The Group uses a limited number of interest rate swaps to representative of the treasury policies and strategies of
redenominate external borrowings intothe interest rate coupon GlaxoSmithKline, applied consistently during the year. There were
required for Group purposes. The duration of these swaps matches no significant changes in such policies throughout the year.
the duration of theprincipal instruments. Interest rate derivative
instruments are accounted for as hedges of the relevant assets or
liabilities, where possible.
The Group manages centrally the short-term cash surpluses or
borrowing requirements of subsidiary companies and uses forward
contracts to hedge future repayments back into originating currency.
Sensitivity analysis considers the sensitivity of the Group’s net debt
to hypothetical changes in market rates and assumes that all other
variables remain constant. Based on the composition of net debt at
31st December 2004 a one percentage point (100 basis points)
increase or decrease in average interest rates would result in a
negligible change in the Group’s annual interest expense.
Equity risk management
Equity investments classified as current assets are available for sale
and the Group manages disposals to meet overall business
requirements as they arise. The Group regularly monitors the value
of its equity investments and only enters into hedges selectively
with the approval of the Board.76 GlaxoSmithKlineOperating and financial review and prospects
Outlook and risk factors
Outlook See Note30to the Financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’,for a
discussion of patent-related proceedings in which the Group is
Sales growth of existing products and launch of newproducts
involved.
arekey driversof GlaxoSmithKline’sbusiness performance.It is
anticipated that a number of new products will be launched in Generic drug manufacturers are seeking to market generic versions
2005.Typically, sales of existing products declinedramatically of many of the Group’s most important products, including
when generic competition is introduced eitheron patent expiry Seretide/Advair, Avandia,Zofran, Wellbutrin XL, Imitrex,Lamictal
or earlier if there is a successful challenge to the Group’s patent. andValtrex, prior to the expiration of the Group’s patents, and
GlaxoSmithKline is engaged in legal proceedings regarding the have exhibited a readiness to do so for other products in the
validity and infringement of the Group’s patents relating to many future. Generic products competitive with Augmentin,Paxil and
of its products.These are discussed in‘Risk factors’below and in Wellbutrin SR were launched in the USA in 2002,2003and 2004,
Note30to the Financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’. respectively, and had a significantimpact on the Group’s overall
turnoverand earnings.
Based on reporting under International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRS) GlaxoSmithKline’s published earnings guidance
Weakness of intellectual property protection in certain
for 2005is that the Group is expected todeliver EPS percentage
countries
growth (at constant exchange rates)in the low double-digit range.
In some of the countries in which the Group operates, patent
The Group has net debt of about £2billion, which is low relative protection may be significantly weaker than in the USA or the
to itsmarket capitalisation,and this positions it to take advantage European Union. In addition, in an effort to control public health
of any opportunities that might arise to build the business. crises, some developing countries, such as South Africa and Brazil,
have considered plans for substantial reductions in the scope of
There are risks and uncertainties inherent in the business which
patent protection for pharmaceutical products. In particular, these
may affect future performance including expected earnings
countries could facilitate competition within their markets from
growth. These are discussed in ‘Risk factors’ below.
generic manufacturers who would otherwise be unable to
introduce competing products for a number of years. Any loss of
Risk factors
patent protection, including abrogation of patent rights or
There are risks and uncertainties relevant to the Group’s business. compulsory licensing, is likely to affect adversely the Group’s
The factors listed below are among those that the Group thinks operating results in those national markets but is not expected
could cause the Group’s actual results to differ materially from to be material to the Group overall. Absence of adequate patent
expected and historical results. protection could limit the opportunity to look to such markets
for future sales growth.
Risk that R&D will not deliver commercially successful new
products Risk of substantial adverse outcome of litigation and
Continued development of commercially viable new products is government investigations
critical to the Group’s ability to replace sales of older products that See Note30to the Financial statements, ’Legal proceedings’,
decline upon expiration of exclusive rights, and to increase overall for a discussion of proceedings and governmental investigations
sales. Developing new products is a costly, lengthy and uncertain in which the Group is currently involved. Unfavourable resolution
process. A new product candidate can fail at any stage of the of these and similar future proceedings or investigations mayhave
process, and one or more late-stage product candidates could amaterialadverse effect onthe Group’s financial results. The
fail to receive regulatory approval Group has made material provisions in 2003and 2004related to
legal proceedings and investigations which reduced its earnings.
New product candidates may appear promising in development
The Group may also makeadditional significantprovisions related
but, after significant investments, fail to reach the market or have
to legal proceedingsandinvestigations in the future, which would
only limited commercial success as a result of efficacy or safety
reduce its earnings. In many cases the practice of the plaintiff bar
concerns, inability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals,
is to claim damages – compensatory, punitive and statutory –
difficulty or excessive costs to manufacture, infringement of
in amounts that bear no relationship to the underlying harm.
patents or other intellectual property rights of others or inability
Accordingly it is potentially misleading to quantify the potential
to differentiate the product adequately from those with which it
exposure to claims, proceedings and investigations of the type
competes. The successful development of the Group’s research
described in Note30.
and development pipeline is of particular importance in light of
the recent and anticipated expiration of patent or data exclusivity Recent insurance loss experience, including pharmaceutical product
for a number of the Group’s largest selling products. liability exposures, has increased the cost of,andnarrowed the
coverage afforded by, insurance for pharmaceutical companies
Risk of loss or expiration of patents or marketing exclusivity generally, including the Group.
Patent infringement litigation In order to contain insurance costs in2004and 2005the Group
Efforts by generic manufacturers may involve challenges to the has continued to adjustits coverage profile, accepting a greater
validity of a patent orassertions thatthe alternative compounds degree of un-insured exposure.In addition, where future claims
do not infringe the Group’s patents. If the Group is not successful aremade under insurance policies, insurersmayreservethe right
during the patent protectionor data exclusivity periodsin to deny coverage on various grounds.If denial of coverage is
maintaining exclusive rights to market one or more of its major ultimately upheldon these claims, this could result in material
products, particularly in the USA where the Group has its highest additional chargestothe Group’s earnings.
turnover and margins, the Group’sturnoverand margins would
be adversely affected.Operating and financial review and prospectsGlaxoSmithKline 77
Product liability litigation The Group had12products with over £500millionin annual
Pre-clinical and clinical trials are conducted during the development global sales in 2004. Among these products arePaxilIRand
of potential products to determine the safety and efficacy of AugmentinIR, with respect to each of which the Group now faces
products for use by humans following approval by regulatory generic competition, andZofran, Imitrex, Valtrex, Lamictaland
bodies. Notwithstanding these efforts, when drugs and vaccines Avandia, with respect to which the Group is currently defending its
are introduced into the marketplace, unanticipated side effects may intellectual property rights in the USA, and Flonase, for which the
became evident. The Group is currently a defendant in a number FDA has not yet approved any generic version following expiry of
of product liability lawsuits, including class actions, that involve the US patent in mid-2004.
substantial claims for damages related to the Group’s
If these or any of the Group’s other major products were to
pharmaceutical products.
become subject to a problem such as loss of patent protection,
Litigation, particularly in the USA, is inherently unpredictable and unexpected side effects, regulatory proceedings, publicity affecting
excessive verdicts that are not justified by the evidence can occur. doctor or patient confidence or pressure from competitive
Class actions that sweep together all persons who were prescribed products, or if a new, more effective treatment should be
the Group’s products can inflate the potential liability by the force introduced, the adverse impact on the Group’s revenues and
of numbers. Claims for pain and suffering and punitive damages operating results could be significant. In particular, the Group faces
are frequently asserted in product liability actions and, if allowed, intense competition from manufacturers of generic pharmaceutical
can represent potentially open-ended exposure. products in all of its major markets.
Generic products often enter the market upon expiration of
Anti-trust litigation
patents or data exclusivity periods for the Group’s products.
In the USA it has become increasingly common that following an
Introduction of generic products typically leads to a dramatic loss
adverse outcome in prosecution of patent infringement actions,
of sales and reduces the Group’s revenues and margins for its
the defendants and direct and indirect purchasers and other payers
proprietary products. The expiration dates for patents for the
initiate anti-trust actions as well. Claims by direct and indirect
Group’s major products are set out on pages 30 to 31and legal
purchasers and other payers are typically filed as class actions
proceedings involving patent challengesare setoutin Note30
and the relief sought may include treble damagesand restitution
to theFinancial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’.
claims.Damages in adverse anti-trust verdicts are subject to
automatic trebling in the USA.
Governmental and payer controls
Pharmaceutical products are subject to price controls or pressures
Governmental investigations
and other restrictions in many markets, including Japan, Germany,
The Groupoperates globally in complex legal and regulatory
France and Italy. Some governments intervene directly in setting
environments that often vary among jurisdictions. The failure to
prices. In addition, in some markets major purchasers of
comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations in these
pharmaceutical products (whether governmental agencies or
jurisdictions may result incivil andcriminal legal proceedings. In
private health care providers) have the economic power to exert
the USA, for example, the Group is responding to federal and
substantial pressure on prices or the terms of access to formularies.
state governmental investigationsinto pricing, marketing and
reimbursement ofitsprescription drug products. These The Group cannot predict whether existing controls will increase
investigations could result in related restitution or civil false claims or new controls will be introduced that will reduce the Group’s
act litigation on behalf of the federal or state governments, as margins or affect adversely its ability to introduce new products
well asrelated proceedings initiated againstthe Groupby or on profitably.
behalf of consumers and private payers. Such proceedings may
For example, in the USA, where the Group has its highest margins
result in trebling of damages awarded or fines in respect of each
and most sales for any country, pricing pressures could significantly
violation of law. Criminal proceedings may also be initiated against
increase upon implementation of the pharmaceutical benefit under
Group companies or individuals.
Medicare, or in the event that other state programmes to control
the cost ofpharmaceuticalare adopted. Once the Medicare
Risks of competition, price controls and limitations on sales
programme initiates outpatient pharmaceutical coverage for its
Third party competition beneficiariesin 2006, the US government, or the private insurers
The Group operates in highly competitive businesses. In the through which coverage will be offered, through their enormous
pharmaceuticalsbusiness, it faces competition both from purchasing power under the programmecould demand discounts
proprietary products of large international manufacturers and that may implicitly create price controls on prescription drugs.
producers of genericpharmaceuticals. Significant product Additionally, a number of states have proposed or implemented
innovations, technical advances or the intensification of price various schemes to control prices for their own senior citizens’ drug
competition by competitors could adversely affect the Group’s programmes, including importation from other countries and bulk
operating results.Continued consolidation in the pharmaceutical purchasing of drugs. The growth in the number of patients covered
industry could adversely affect the Group’s competitive position, through large managed care institutions in the USA, which islikely
while continued consolidation among the Group’s customers may to increase with implementation of the Medicare amendments,
increase pricing pressures. also increases pricing pressures on the Group’s products.
These trends may adversely affect the Group’s revenues and
margins from sales in the USA. Until the terms of implementation
of the Medicare pharmaceutical benefit have been finalised,
it is not possible to quantify the impact of that benefit on the
Group’s financial results.78 GlaxoSmithKlineOperating and financial review and prospects
Outlook and risk factors continued
Regulatory controls Reliance on information technology
The Group must comply with a broad range of regulatory controls The Group is increasingly dependent on information technology
on the testing, approval, manufacturing and marketing of many of systems, includingInternet-based systems, for internal
its pharmaceutical and consumer healthcare products, particularly communication as well as communication with customers and
in the USA and countries of the European Union, that affect not suppliers. Any significant disruption of these systems, whether
only the cost of product development but also the time required due to computer viruses or other outside incursions, could
to reach the market and the uncertainty of successfully doing so. materially and adversely affect the Group’s operations.
Stricterregulatory controls also heighten the risk of withdrawal by
Taxation
regulators ofapprovalspreviously granted, which would reduce
The effective tax rate on the Group’s earnings benefits from the
revenues and can result in product recalls and product liability
fact that a portion of its earnings is taxed at more favourable rates
lawsuits. In addition, in some cases the Group may voluntarily
in some jurisdictions outside the UK.Changes in tax laws or in
cease marketing a product (for example the withdrawal of
their application with respect to matters, such as transfer pricing
Lotronexshortly after its initial launch in the USA) or face declining
and the risk of double taxation, that relate to the portion of the
sales based on concerns about efficacy or safety, whether or not
Group’s earnings taxed at more favourable rates, could increase
scientifically justified, even in the absence of regulatory action.
the Group’s effective tax rate and adversely affect its financial
The developmentofthe post-approval adverse event profile for a
results.The Group has open issues with the revenue authorities
product or the product class may have a major impact on the
in the USA, UK, Japan and Canada. By far the largest relates to
marketing and sale of the product.
Glaxo heritage products, in respect of which the US Internal
Revenue Service and UK Inland Revenue have made competing
Risk of interruption of product supply
and contradictory claims.These matters are discussed in Note12
The manufacture of pharmaceutical products and their constituent
to the Financialstatements, ‘Taxation’.
materials requires compliance with good manufacturing practice
regulations. The Group’s manufacturing sites are subject to review
Global political and economic conditions
and approval by the FDA and other regulatory agencies.
The Group conducts a substantial portion of its operations
Compliance failure by suppliers of key materials or the Group’s
outside theUK. The Group’s management of foreign exchange
own manufacturing facilities could lead to product recalls and
rates is discussed in Operating and financial review and prospects,
seizures, interruption of production and delays in the approvals
‘Foreign exchange risk management’. Fluctuations in exchange
of new products pending resolution of manufacturing issues.
rates betweensterling and other currencies, especially the US
Non-compliance can also result in fines and disgorgement of
dollar,the Euro and the Japaneseyen, materially affect the
profits. Any interruption of supply or fines or disgorgement remedy
Group’s financial results.
could materially and adversely affect the Group’s financial results.
The Group’s Cidra, Puerto Rico facility is currently the subject of The Group has no control over changes in inflation and interest
FDAobservations of possible deficiencies in manufacturing rates, foreign currency exchange rates and controls or other
practicesas referred to inNote30to the Financial statements, economic factors affecting its businesses or the possibility of
‘Legal proceedings’. While the Group undertakes business political unrest, legal and regulatory changes or nationalisation
continuity planning, single sourcing for certain components, bulk in jurisdictions in which the Group operates. These factors could
active materials and finished products creates a risk of failure of materially affect the Group’s future results of operations.
supply in the event of regulatory non-compliance or physical
disruption at the manufacturing sites. Accounting standards
New or revised accounting standards and rules promulgated from
Risk from concentration ofsales to wholesalers time to time bythe UK, US or internationalaccounting standard
In the USA, in line with other pharmaceutical companies, the setting boards could have a material adverse impact on the Group’s
Group sells its products through a small number of wholesalers reported financial results. With the adoption of International
in addition to hospitals, pharmacies, physicians and other groups. Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), changes in the market
Sales to the three largest of which amounted to approximately valuation of certain financial instruments (such as the equity collar
80 per cent of the Group’s US pharmaceutical sales. The Group is linked to the Group’s investment in QuestDiagnostics, the put and
exposed to a concentration of credit riskin respectofthese call options linked to the Group’s strategic alliance with Theravance
wholesalers such that, if one or more of them is affected by and impairments of equity investments) will be reflected in the
financial difficulty, it could materially and adversely affect the Group’s reported results before those gains or losses are actually
Group’s financial results. realised and could have a significant impact on the profit and loss
statement in any given period.The Group believes that it complies
Environmental liabilities with the appropriate regulatory requirements concerning its
The environmental laws of various jurisdictions impose actual and financial statements and disclosures. However, other companies
potential obligations on the Group to remediate contaminated have experienced investigations into potential non-compliance with
sites. The Group has also been identified as a potentially accounting and disclosure requirements that have resulted in
responsible party under the US Comprehensive Environmental significant penalties.
Response Compensation and Liability Act at a number of sites for
remediation costs relating to the Group’s use or ownership of such Human resources
sites.Failure tomanage properly the environmental risks could The Grouphasapproximately100,000employeesaround the
result in additional remedial costs that could materially and world and is subject to laws and regulations concerning its
adversely affect the Group’s operations. See Note30to the employees – ranging from discrimination and harassment to
Financialstatements, ‘Legal proceedings’,for a discussion of personal privacy to labour relations – that vary significantly from
environmental-related proceedings in which the Group is involved. jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Failure to comply with applicable
requirements could have a significant adverse affect on the Group.Operating and financial review and prospectsGlaxoSmithKline 79
2003 Year
In accordance with USSEC disclosure requirements, the following Pharmaceutical turnover
discussion compares results for the year to 31st December 2003
All growth rates included in the review of turnover are at constant
with the results for the year to 31st December 2002.
exchange rates (CER) unless otherwise stated. The sterling growth
All growth rates included in the review of turnover are at constant rates may be found in the tables of pharmaceutical turnover by
exchange rates (CER) unless otherwise stated. The sterling growth therapeutic area on page81.
rates may be found in the table of pharmaceutical sales by
Total pharmaceutical turnover in 2003 was £18,181 million
therapeutic area on page81.
compared with £17,995 million in 2002, an increase of five per
cent. Approximately one per cent of this overall growth came from
Exchange
price increases. Growth in sterling terms of one per cent was
The currencies that most influence the Group’s results are the US significantly impacted by the weakness of the US dollar and other
Dollar, the Euro and the Japanese Yen. currencies.
The pound hit its highest level against the dollar for more than Within the Group’s portfolio, turnover of new products launched
three years, climbing to $1.79and the Euro gained 20 per cent in a major market within the last five years accounted for 25 per
against the dollar in 2003, the first year that the Dollar has fallen cent of total turnover and grew by 29 per cent to £4,633 million.
in value against the Euro, as investors weighed up the impact of Turnover of the more established, franchise products amounted
continued unrest in Iraq, tensions elsewhere in the world and to £9,888 million representing 54 per cent of total turnover and
concerns for the US economy. grew one per cent compared to last year. Turnover of older
products, now less actively promoted, was £3,660 million, a
World market – pharmaceuticals decline of eight per cent, representing 21 per cent of total
turnover.
Global pharmaceutical sales increased by almost nine per cent CER
(five per cent sterling) in 2003 to £279billion. Global pharmaceutical turnover in the fourth quarter of 2003
declined two per cent, reflecting a US turnover decline of
World market by Value % of Growth six per cent to £2,188 million; whereas in Europe turnover grew
geographic region £bn total CER £% two per cent to £1,363 million, and in International turnover
USA 127 46 11 2 grew four per cent to £964 million. Turnover in the US declined
Europe 76 27 8 15 due to generic competition to Paxilwhich began in September
Germany 15 5 7 15 2003.
France 14 5 6 14
UK 9 3 11 11 Pharmaceutical turnover by therapeutic area
Italy 9 3 5 13
GlaxoSmithKline’s ability to continue to deliver pharmaceutical
Japan 31 11 2 (1)
turnover growth, despite generic competition to several of its
Asia Pacific 19 7 9 4
products, is primarily due to an exceptionally broad product
Latin America 12 4 (3) (11)
portfolio of fast-growing, high-value products.
Middle East, Africa 8 3 17 13
Canada 6 2 12 11 These include the Respiratory product Seretide/Advair (£2.2 billion)
Total 279 100 9 5 up 39 per cent, the diabetes treatment Avandia/Avandamet
(£0.9 billion) up 24 per cent, Wellbutrinfor depression
The US market, although less buoyant than 2002 maintained (£0.9 billion) up 18 per cent, the emesis treatment Zofran
double digit growth and now represents 46 per cent of the global (£0.8 billion) up 16 per cent, Lamictalfor epilepsy (£0.6 billion)
prescription pharmaceutical market compared to 31 per cent a up 31 per cent, Trizivir, for HIV (£0.4 billion) up 22 per cent,
decade ago. Valtrexfor herpes (£0.5 billion) up 23 per cent, Coregfor heart
disease (£0.4 billion) up 28 per cent and the pediatric vaccine
At 30th September 2003, GlaxoSmithKline held second position in
Infanrix/Pediarix(£0.3 billion) up 32 per cent.
the world pharmaceutical market with a market share of 6.9 per
cent, behind Pfizer with a market share of 10.3 per cent.
Central nervous system (CNS)
GlaxoSmithKline had seven products in the world’s top 50
CNS sales grew four per cent to £4,455 million. Sales in the USA
pharmaceutical products; these are Augmentin, Avandia,
and Europe grew three per cent. International sales grew
Imigran/Imitrex, Seretide/Advair, Seroxat/Paxil, Wellbutrinand
15 per cent.
Zofran.
Sales of Seroxat/Paxil, GlaxoSmithKline’s leading product for
World market – Value % of Growth depression and anxiety disorders, declined four per cent to
top five therapeutic classes £bn total CER £% £1,877 million. US sales declined nine per cent to £1,179 million
Cardiovascular 47 17 7 4 following the launch of a generic paroxetine in September 2003.
Central nervous system 46 16 13 8 GlaxoSmithKline's innovative new product Paxil CR, increased its
Alimentary tract and metabolic 36 13 8 4 share of total Paxil prescriptions (branded and generic) since the
Anti-infectives (bacterial, generic launch from 33 per cent to 37 per cent. Paxil CRsales in
viral and fungal) excluding vaccines 31 11 7 2 2003 were £387 million. In EuropeSeroxatsales declined eight
Respiratory 20 7 2 (2) per cent to £369 million reflecting competition and pricing
pressures. International sales grew 25 per cent to £329 million
(Note: data based on 12 months to 30thSeptember 2003.)
led by continued strong growth in Japan.80 GlaxoSmithKline Operating and financial review and prospects
2003 Year continued
Sales of Wellbutrin, for depression, grew 18 per cent to Metabolic
£953 million, reflecting increased physician awareness of the Worldwide sales for the metabolic category were £1.1 billion, up
product’s outstanding efficacy and favourable side-effect profile. 20 per cent. The Avandiafranchise (Avandiaand Avandamet)
A new once-daily formulation, Wellbutrin XL, was launched in grew 24 per cent for the year with US sales up 20 per cent to
September 2003. This formulation accounted for 40 per cent of £755 million.
branded Wellbutrinprescriptions in early February 2004 and
Avandamet, a combination of Avandiaand metformin HCI,
seven per cent of sales in 2003.
expanded the Avandiametabolic franchise with its US launch in
Limited generic competition to Wellbutrinbegan in the USA in the fourth quarter 2002. In Europe, Avandiahas benefited from
January 2004 for the 100mg dose. increasing physician acceptance with sales of £70 million, up
57 per cent. The franchise should benefit further from the EU
GlaxoSmithKline’s medicine for epilepsy, Lamictal, continued to
approval of Avandametin December 2003. Avandiaalso did very
grow across all regions achieving sales of £556 million, up
well in International markets with sales of £106 million, up
31 per cent. In June 2003, the FDA approved Lamictalfor long-
40 per cent.
term maintenance treatment of bi-polar disorder.
Vaccines
Respiratory
Sales of vaccines grew two per cent to £1.1 billion, supported by
GlaxoSmithKline continues to be the global leader in respiratory
the Infanrix/Pediarix franchise, up 32 per cent to £336 million. The
pharmaceuticals with sales of its three key products,
hepatitis franchise declined 13 per cent to £417 million reflecting
Seretide/Advair, Flixotide/Floventand Serevent, amounting to
competitive pressure in the USA and Europe.
£3.4 billion, up 17 per cent. Sales of Seretide/Advair, the Group’s
largest product, grew 39 per cent to £2.2 billion although this In the USA, GlaxoSmithKline’s new Pediarixvaccine was launched
contributed to declines in Sereventand Flixotide, its constituent in January 2003. Pediarixadds protection against hepatitis B and
products. Seretide/Advairis now one of the top ten pharmaceutical poliomyelitis to theInfanrixcombination and results in up to six
brands in the world. In the USA, sales grew 54 per cent to fewer injections for infants.
£1,235 million.
Cardiovascular and urogenital
Seretide also continued to perform strongly in Europe (up
In 2003, Coregsales grew 28 per cent to £361 million, benefiting
18 per cent) and International markets (up 37 per cent). The
from recent data that showed a highly significant statistical
growth prospects for Advairwere further strengthened with an
difference in survival between Coregand metoprolol in patients
FDA approval for use in the treatment ofCOPDin the fourth
with heart failure.
quarter 2003.
Levitra (vardenafil), a new agent for the treatment of erectile
The older respiratory products Ventolinand Becotidecontinued
dysfunction, was launched in the USA in August 2003 and in
to decline as patients converted to newer products.
Europe in the first half of the year. Levitrawas researched and
developed by Bayer AGand is co-promoted with GlaxoSmithKline.
Anti-virals
HIV medicines grew across all regions and totalled £1.5 billion in
Oncology and emesis
sales, up six per cent. Sales of Trizivir, GlaxoSmithKline’s triple
Sales of Zofrangrew 16 per cent to £774 million, driven by
combination therapy, grew 22 per cent to £376 million. Lexiva,
astrong US performance, up 20 per cent to £575 million.
for HIV, was launched in December 2003, with initial sales of
£7 million.
Other therapeutic areas
Global sales of Valtrex, which received FDA approval in August Sales of Zantacfell 13 per cent to £328 million with declines
2003 to reduce the risk of transmission of genital herpes, rose inall regions.
23 per cent to £499 million.
Anti-bacterials
Anti-bacterial sales declined 16 per cent worldwide and
41 per cent in the USA. Augmentin’sUSsales were down
51 per cent in the year as a result of generic competition that
began in the third quarter 2002.
In the USA, GlaxoSmithKline’s two new antibiotics, Augmentin ES
for children, and Augmentin XRfor adults, recorded combined
sales of £237 million in 2003 in spite of generic competition.Operating and financial review and prospectsGlaxoSmithKline 81
Pharmaceutical turnover by therapeutic area 2003
Total USA Europe International
Therapeutic area/ % of 2003 2002 Growth 2003 Growth 2003 Growth 2003 Growth
major products total 0 2000 4000 £m £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £m £m CER% £%
CNS 25 4,455 4,511 4 (1) 3,112 3 (6) 847 3 10 496 15 14
Depression 2,830 2,937 2 (4) 2,107 1 (7) 369 (8) (2) 354 25 23
Seroxat/Paxil 1,877 2,055 (4) (9) 1,179 (9) (17) 369 (8) (2) 329 25 23
Wellbutrin 953 882 18 8 928 18 8 – – – 25 30 25
Migraine 849 888 1 (4) 609 (1) (9) 179 3 11 61 7 7
Imigran/Imitrex 760 798 – (5) 560 (1) (9) 147 3 11 53 7 8
Naramig/Amerge 89 90 1 (1) 49 (3) (9) 32 7 14 8 7 –
Lamictal 556 438 31 27 311 38 26 202 26 34 43 9 8
Requip 99 89 13 11 47 9 – 47 15 24 5 43 25
Zyban 75 99 (25) (24) 28 (35) (40) 32 12 19 15 (45) (40)
Respiratory 24 4,417 3,987 14 11 2,242 21 11 1,481 4 10 694 13 11
Serevent, Seretide/Advair
Flixotide/Flovent 3,352 2,937 17 14 1,750 23 12 1,170 7 15 432 18 19
Seretide/Advair 2,214 1,631 39 36 1,235 54 41 773 18 27 206 37 40
Flixotide/Flovent 705 783 (8) (10) 319 (10) (18) 208 (10) (5) 178 1 1
Serevent 433 523 (15) (17) 196 (27) (33) 189 (5) (1) 48 26 26
Flixonase/Flonase 594 534 19 11 461 22 12 56 1 8 77 14 12
Ventolin 265 265 (1) – 4 (50) (50) 134 (5) 1 127 7 2
Becotide 111 130 (16) (15) – – – 93 (15) (11) 18 (23) (28)
Anti-virals 13 2,349 2,299 5 2 1,159 4 (4) 726 5 14 464 7 3
HIV 1,508 1,465 6 3 798 2 (7) 555 11 20 155 12 6
Trizvir 376 315 22 19 219 20 10 143 28 39 14 27 17
Combivir 589 588 3 – 301 (3) (11) 218 8 17 70 16 9
Epivir 293 295 2 (1) 148 (1) (10) 107 5 14 38 6 3
Retrovir 45 50 (10) (10) 19 (12) (17) 16 (14) (6) 10 1 –
Ziagen 167 173 (1) (3) 86 (6) (15) 61 7 15 20 7 5
Agenerase 31 44 (25) (30) 19 (33) (39) 9 (5) – 3 1 (25)
Herpes 669 653 6 2 325 15 5 148 (3) 6 196 (2) (4)
Valtrex 499 425 23 17 316 26 15 86 9 18 97 25 26
Zovirax 170 228 (26) (25) 9 (72) (74) 62 (16) (7) 99 (19) (22)
Zeffix 129 123 11 5 10 (4) (17) 17 2 6 102 14 7
Anti-bacterials 10 1,815 2,210 (16) (18) 524 (41) (46) 755 1 8 536 6 (1)
Augmentin 825 1,191 (29) (31) 312 (51) (56) 332 (2) 5 181 11 5
Zinnat/Ceftin 246 243 – 1 22 (29) (35) 134 6 15 90 4 (2)
Fortum 184 201 (9) (8) 27 (22) (27) 95 (9) (1) 62 (3) (9)
Amoxil 117 136 (11) (14) 19 (36) (41) 36 (26) (20) 62 15 5
Metabolic 6 1,079 960 20 12 755 20 10 116 32 38 208 16 11
Avandia/Avandamet 931 809 24 15 755 20 10 70 57 67 106 40 34
Vaccines 6 1,123 1,080 2 4 281 6 (3) 495 (1) 6 347 4 8
Hepatitis 417 483 (13) (14) 157 (18) (26) 192 (12) (6) 68 1 –
Infanrix 336 254 32 32 124 71 57 147 17 26 65 10 12
Oncology and emesis 6 1,001 977 9 2 743 10 – 163 1 7 95 13 12
Zofran 774 708 16 9 575 20 10 126 1 8 73 13 11
Hycamtin 110 94 23 17 77 33 22 25 – 4 8 14 14
Cardiovasular and 4
urogenital 771 661 22 17 495 24 14 176 10 20 100 34 28
Coreg 361 306 28 18 346 28 17 – – – 15 33 36
Levitra 37 – – – 22 – – 11 – – 4 – –
Avodart 19 6 >100 >100 14 >100 >100 5 – – – – –
Other 6 1,171 1,310 (8) (11) 99 (15) (22) 355 (16) (13) 717 (3) (8)
Zantac 328 382 (13) (14) 77 (1) (10) 94 (25) (19) 157 (10) (13)
100 18,181 17,995 5 1 9,410 5 (4) 5,114 2 9 3,657 8 5
CER% represents turnover growth at constant exchange rates. £% represents growth at actual exchange rates.82 GlaxoSmithKline Operating and financial review and prospects
2003 Year continued
USA International
The USA reported five per cent turnover growth in the year and An eight per cent turnover growth in the International region
this business represents 52 per cent of total pharmaceutical reflected a mixture of good growth in the Middle East and Africa,
turnover. Canada, Japan and Asia Pacific. Latin America also grew strongly
as Mexico rebounded following poor economic conditions and a
Advairmaintained its strong growth with sales of £1,235 million
re-alignment of wholesaler stock levels in 2002.
driving the overall respiratory growth of 21 per cent. However,
this adversely affected sales of its constituent products, Flovent Overall International growth was driven by Seretide, Seroxat/Paxil
and Serevent, which both showed declines. Flonaseindicated for and Avandia, partly offset by declines in Zantacand Zovirax.
the treatment of perennial rhinitis grew strongly by 22 per cent.
The Asia Pacific area grew due to the performance of Seretide
Sales growth of three per cent in the central nervous system and Avandia. Strong growth in a number of markets was partly
products included sales of Wellbutrinup 18 per cent, reflecting offset by a decline of one per cent in the largest market, Australia,
the performance of the new once a day formulation Wellbutrin XL. reflecting reduced sales of Zyban,Zantacand the older antibiotics.
Paxil sales declined nine per cent due to the launch of generic
The growth in Japan reflected strong growth of Paxil, Serevent
paroxetine in September 2003. GlaxoSmithKline's innovative new
and Valtrexpartly offset by the declines of Zovirax, Zantac, and
product Paxil CR, increased its share of total Paxilprescriptions
government price reductions.
(branded and generic) since the generic launch from 33 per cent
to 37 per cent. Paxil CRsales in 2003 were £387 million. The Middle East and Africa area followed the trends of most
other markets with growth in Seretide, Avandia, and vaccines.
Sales in the anti-virals therapeutic area grew four per cent with
In Canada growth was driven by Seretide and Avandia.
HIV led by a strong performance of Trizivirup 20 per cent, which
partially drew sales from its constituent products. Valtrex, for
Consumer Healthcare sales
herpes, grew 26 per cent driven by the FDA approval for the
2003 2002 Growth
reduced risk of transmission of genital herpes. £m £m CER% £%
Sales of Avandiaincreased by 20 per cent, benefiting from the OTC medicines 1,556 1,586 2 (2)
Analgesics 342 339 4 1
launch of Avandametin November 2002. Anti-bacterial sales
Dermatological 237 188 31 26
declined 41 per cent as a result of generic competition that began
Gastro-intestinal 283 312 (2) (9)
in the third quarter 2002. Coregsales increased 28 per cent
Respiratory tract 151 142 6 6
reflecting the benefit from recent data that showed a highly
Smoking control 325 378 (8) (14)
significant statistical difference in survival betweenCoregand
Natural wellness support 166 162 3 2
metopropol in patients with heart failure.
Oral care 1,082 1,052 3 3
Europe
The discussion of individual market performance in the Europe Nutritional healthcare 622 579 9 7
region is on a ’turnover created basis’ rather than a ’turnover 3,260 3,217 4 1
invoiced basis’; see pages 64 to 65for further details.
The growth in Consumer Healthcare sales of four per cent to
Europe region contributed 28 per cent of pharmaceutical turnover. £3,260 million comprised an OTC medicines sales increase of
Although overall turnover growth in the region was only two per two per cent, a Nutritional Healthcare sales increase of nine
cent, good growth was recorded in Italy and Central and Eastern per cent and Oral care sales increase of three per cent.
Europe, but government healthcare reforms, including pricing and
reimbursement restrictions, adversely affected turnover in France,
OTCmedicines
Spain and Germany. Seretide, GlaxoSmithKline’s largest selling Over-the-counter medicine sales were £1.6 billion, up two per cent.
product in Europe, reported notable growth in France, Italy and Sales of smoking control and gastro-intestinal products were down
the UK, although this was partly offset by expected declines in significantly in the USA primarily due to flat market conditions and
Sereventand Flixotide. Trizivirshowed strong growth in all of the to private label competition. Growth from smoking control
major markets in the region. The decline in sales of the herpes products recently launched in Europe and sales of dermatological
franchise was mainly as a result of generic competition for Zovirax products acquired earlier this year helped to offset these declines.
partially offset by patients switching to the newer Valtrexproduct.
Oral care
Oral care sales were £1.1 billion, up three per cent.
GlaxoSmithKline's Sensodyne brand continues to grow in all
regions.
Nutritional healthcare
Nutritional healthcare products grew nine per cent to £0.6
billion. Lucozade Sportand Lucozade Hydroactivecontinued
to drive growth in this category.Operating and financial review and prospectsGlaxoSmithKline 83
Trading profit – statutory results Profit before taxation - statutory results
Statutory results include merger items, integration and The analysis and discussion below of profit before taxation relates
restructuring costs, and the disposal of subsidiaries. to statutory performance.
2003 2002 2003 2002
(restated) (restated) Growth Other operating income/(expense) £m £m
£m % £m % CER% £% Royalties and other income 75 75
Turnover 21,441 100.0 21,212 100.0 5 1 Other operating expense (436) (209)
Cost of sales (4,544) (21.2) (4,609) (21.7) – (1) (361) (134)
Selling, general Income from equity investments and
and administration (7,597) (35.4) (8,023) (37.8) (2) (5) other disposals 228 23
Research and
(133) (111)
development (2,791) (13.0) (2,900) (13.7) (1) (4)
Trading profit 6,509 30.4 5,680 26.8 21 15 Other operating income/(expense) includes litigation costs and
provisions relating to legal claims on withdrawn products,
product withdrawals and anti-trust matters, equity investment
Cost of sales
carrying value adjustments arising from stock market price
Cost of sales reduced as a percentage of turnover as a result of
changes, royalty income, product disposals and equity
benefits arising from merger and manufacturing restructuring
investment sales.
savings and a favourable product mix. A small pricing benefit was
more than offset by an adverse exchange impact. Merger and Other operating expenses were £133 million in the year
manufacturing costs incurred of £356 million were £10 million compared with £111 million in 2002. The year on year
lower than in 2002. movement reflects higher provisions in 2003 for product liability,
anti-trust and other claims, partially offset by higher 2003
Selling, general and administration proceeds from product disposals and equity investment sales.
Selling, general and administration (SG&A) costs declined two per
cent reflecting reduced merger integration costs and operational Business disposals
excellence cost savings initiatives. These were partly offset by The profit on disposal of businesses in 2003 of £5 million reflects
increased selling costs to support new product launches, charges the final settlements regarding the disposal of Healthcare
relating to cost saving programmes and increased pension costs. Services businesses in 1999.
Without the merger integration costs SG&A grew four per cent
driven by selling cost increases, which accounted for a three Share of profits/(losses) of joint ventures and associated
percentage point increase. The charges relating to operational undertakings
excellence and pension cost increases each individually added one The share of profits of associates arises principally from the
percentage point, while cost savings reduced growth by one Group’s holding inQuest DiagnosticsInc.
percentage point. Together these produced a reduction of 2.4 2003 2002
percentage points relative to 2002 for the expenses expressed Net interest payable £m £m
as a percentage of turnover. Interest payable (214) (206)
Investment income 61 73
Research and development (153) (133)
R&D declined one per cent reflecting reduced merger integration Share of interest payable of associate (8) (8)
costs, partly offset by increased clinical trial and in-licensing activity
(161) (141)
and the reinvestment of merger synergies. Pharmaceuticals R&D
expenditure represented 14.9 per cent of pharmaceutical turnover Net interest payable increased compared with 2002 largely as
in the year. a result of the unwinding of the discounts on provisions and
long-term receivables.
Trading profit
Statutory trading profit was £6,509 million with a growth of Profit on ordinary activities before taxation - statutory
21 per cent, stronger than turnover growth of five per cent, results
demonstrating an improved trading margin of 3.6 percentage Taking account of net other operating income/(expenses), the
points. This was principally due to lower merger integration costs, contribution from associates, business disposals and net interest
cost savings derived from merger integration, manufacturing and payable, statutory profit before tax was £6,313 million compared
other initiatives partly offset by charges relating to operational with £5,524million in 2002, an increase of 20per cent.
excellence cost saving programmes and higher pension costs.84 GlaxoSmithKline Operating and financial review and prospects
2003 Year continued
Trading profit – business performance Profit before taxation - business performance
To illustrate GlaxoSmithKline performance in 2003, the analysis The analysis and discussion below of profit before taxation
below of trading profit and the subsequent discussion excludes relates to business performance.
merger items, integration and restructuring costs and the
2003 2002
disposal of businesses. Management believes that exclusion of Other operating income/(expense) £m £m
these items provides a better reflection of the way in which the Royalties and other income 75 75
business is managed. Accordingly this information is provided Other operating expense (436) (209)
as a supplement to that contained in the consolidated statement
(361) (134)
of profit and loss on pages90and91prepared in accordance
Income from equity investments and
with UKGAAP.
other disposals 228 23
2003 2002
(133) (111)
(restated) (restated) Growth
£m % £m % CER% £%
Other operating income/(expense) includes litigation costs and
Turnover 21,441 100.0 21,212 100.0 5 1
provisions relating to legal claims on withdrawn products,
Cost of sales (4,188) (19.5) (4,243) (20.0) – (1) product withdrawals and anti-trust matters, equity investment
Selling, general carrying value adjustments arising from stock market price
and administration (7,579) (35.4) (7,525) (35.5) 4 1 changes, royalty income, product disposals and equity
Research and investment sales.
development (2,770) (12.9) (2,732) (12.9) 4 1
Other operating expenses were £133 million in the year
Trading profit 6,904 32.2 6,712 31.6 8 3
compared with £111 million in 2002. The year-on-year
movement reflects higher provisions in 2003 for product liability,
Cost of sales anti-trust and other claims, partially offset by higher 2003
Cost of sales reduced as a percentage of turnover as a result proceeds from product disposals and equity investment sales.
of benefits arising from merger, manufacturing restructuring
savings, and a favourable product mix. A small pricing benefit Share of profits/(losses) of joint ventures and associated
was more than offset by an adverse exchange impact. undertakings
The share of profits of associates arises principally from the
Selling, general and administration Group’s holding inQuest DiagnosticsInc.
Selling, general and administration (SG&A) costs grew four per
cent reflecting increased selling costs to support new product 2003 2002
Net interest payable £m £m
launches, charges relating to operational excellence cost saving
Interest payable (214) (206)
programmes and increased pension costs, partly offset by cost
Investment income 61 73
saving initiatives. These cost saving initiatives were relatively small
restructuring activities in 2002 and 2003. It is estimated that (153) (133)
without the operational excellence charges SG&A would have Share of interest payable of associate (8) (8)
grown three per cent, driven principally by selling cost increases. (161) (141)
Pension cost increases added one percentage point, but these
were offset by cost saving initiatives. Together these produced a Net interest payable increased compared with 2002largely as a
reduction of 0.2 percentage points expressed as a percentage of result of the unwinding of the discounts on provisions and long-
turnover. term receivables.
Research and development Profit on ordinary activities before taxation - business
Research and development (R&D) increased four per cent reflecting performance
increased clinical trial and in-licensing activity and the reinvestment Taking account of net other operating income/(expense), the
of merger synergies. Pharmaceuticals R&D expenditure represented contribution from associates, business disposals and net interest
14.8 per cent of pharmaceutical turnover in the year. payable, business performance profit before tax was£6,703
million, compared with £6,535million in 2002, an increase of
Trading profit eightper cent.
Business performance trading profit was £6,904million with a
growth ofeightper cent, stronger than turnover growth of five
per cent, demonstrating an improved trading margin of 0.8points
to 32.2per cent compared with 2002. This was principally due to
cost savings derived from merger integration, manufacturing and
other initiatives, partly offset by charges relating to operational
excellence cost saving programmes and higher pension costs.
The focus of operational excellence is on value creation and the
elimination of waste and bureaucracy. This programme has
become an integral part of the way the business is managed
and so any charges are booked to business performance.Operating and financial review and prospectsGlaxoSmithKline 85
Merger items, restructuring costs and disposal of businesses The Group has now received a claim for additional taxes that the
IRS asserts legacy company Glaxo Wellcome owes for the years
Merger and manufacturing restructuring
1989 to 1996. This statutory notice of deficiency for $2.7 billion
GlaxoSmithKline has made good progress with its merger and
(£1.5 billion) in tax principally relates to the allocation of profits
manufacturing restructuring plans. The merger programmes
for Glaxo heritage products between the USA and other
weresubstantially complete at the end of 2003. Combined these
countries. To the extent that the IRS were successful in its claim,
programmes have now produced annual savings which exceeded
interest would be payable. GlaxoSmithKline estimates the
the published target of £1.8 billion.
interest on the full claim to date would be approximately
Costs of £369 million were incurred in the year in respect of $2.5 billion (£1.4 billion), net of federal tax relief. As similar tax
merger and manufacturing restructuring. Aftertax relief of issues remain open for 1997 to date, GlaxoSmithKline expects
£91 million, the net charge was £278 million. The costs in 2003 to receive further claims by the IRS for these years.
include severance, asset write-downs, professional fees and site
Since GlaxoSmithKline has exhausted all administrative remedies
closure.
open to it, theGroupplans to contest this claim for additional
taxes by filing a petition in the USTax Court, where a trial is
Block Drug Company, Inc.
not expected until sometime in 2005 or 2006.
GlaxoSmithKline acquired Block Drug in January 2001. The costs
incurred in integrating this business were £26 million in 2003 GlaxoSmithKline continues to believe that the profits reported by
including redundancies, asset write-downs and site closures. the US subsidiaries for the period 1989 to date, on which it has
paid taxes in the USA, are more than sufficient to reflect the
Disposal of businesses activities of its USoperations.
The profit on disposal of businesses in 2003 of £5 million reflects
GlaxoSmithKline uses the best advice in determining its transfer
the final settlements regarding the disposal of the Healthcare
pricing methodology and in seeking to manage transfer pricing
Services businesses in 1999.
issues to a satisfactory conclusion and, on the basis of external
professional advice, continues to believe that it has made
Taxation
adequate provision for the liabilities likely to arise from open
2003 2002
(restated) (restated) assessments.However, there continues to be a wide difference
£m £m
of views between the Group and the IRS. The ultimate liability
Business performance (1,838) (1,763) for such matters may vary significantly from amounts provided
Merger, restructuring and disposal and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation proceedings
of subsidiaries 109 299 and negotiations with the relevant tax authorities.
Total (1,729) (1,464)
The credit for taxation on merger and restructuring items
amounting to £109 million reflects the actual tax rate applicable
The integrated nature of the Group’s worldwide operations, to the transactions in the territories in which they arise.
involving significant investment in research and strategic
For the latest position on taxation, see ‘Taxation’ in the2004Year
manufacture at a limited number of locations, with
Operating and financial review and prospects on page68.
consequential cross-border supply routes into numerous
end-markets, gives rise to complexity and delay in negotiations
with revenue authorities as to the profits on which individual
Group companies are liable to tax. Disagreements with, and
between, revenue authorities as to intra-Group transactions, in
particular the price at which goods should be transferred
between Group companies in different tax jurisdictions, can
produce conflicting claims from revenue authorities as to the
profits that fall to be taxed in individual territories. Resolution
of such issues is a continuing fact of life for GlaxoSmithKline.
The Group has open issues with the revenue authorities in the
USA, UK, Japan and Canada, but by far the largest relates to
Glaxo heritage products in the USA.
In the USA, for a number of years, GlaxoSmithKline has had
significant open issues relating to transfer pricing.
GlaxoSmithKline has attempted to settle the dispute, first
through direct discussion with the USInternal Revenue Service
(IRS) and subsequently through discussions between the USA
and UK authorities under the terms of the double tax convention
between the two countries. GlaxoSmithKline understands that
the views of the two tax authorities were so different that they
were unable to reach agreement, and discussions were
terminated in July 2003.86 GlaxoSmithKlineOperating and financial review and prospects
2003 Year continued
Earnings 2003 2002 Growth
(restated) (restated) CER% £%
Statutory earnings (£m) 4,478 3,930 19 14
Basic earnings per share 77.1p 66.5p 22 16
Basic earnings per ADS $2.53 $2.00 23 27
Adjusted earnings (£m) 4,759 4,642 7 5
Adjusted earnings per share 82.0p 78.5p 10 4
Adjusted earnings per ADS $2.69 $2.36 10 14
Weighted average number
of shares (millions) 5,806 5,912
Adjusted earnings and adjusted earnings per share are
presented above in order to illustrate business performance
which is the primary measure used by management. Adjusted
earnings increased by seven per cent. Adjusted earnings per
share increased by 10 per cent reflecting the reduction in the
weighted average number of shares resulting from the Group’s
share buy-back programme. The interest cost of this programme
also impacts the Group’s earnings.
Adjusted earnings per shareincreased four per cent in sterling
terms, compared with 10 per cent in CER terms. The adverse
currency impact on EPS of six per cent in the year reflected the
significant weakening of the US dollar relative to 2002 and
compares with a four per cent adverse currency impact on
turnover. This difference principally arises from a different mix
of currencies in profits compared with turnover.
Taken together with other expenses, taxation and business
disposals this resulted in a basic EPS of 77.1 pence compared
with 66.5 pence in 2002 and a diluted EPS of 76.9 pence
compared with 66.3 pence in 2002. Merger and manufacturing
restructuring costs were lower in 2003 than in 2002 and as a
result, the sterling based growth in basic EPS of 16 per cent
was significantly higher than the CERbased growth in adjusted
EPS despite the overall negative impact of currencies in 2003.
Dividend
The Board has declared a fourth interim dividend of 14 pence
per share making a total for the year of 41 pence per share. This
compares with a total dividend of 40 pence per share for 2002.
In 2004, GlaxoSmithKline expects a similar increase in the total
dividend as has been declared in 2003. The allocation of the
quarterly dividends will be rebalanced in 2004. GlaxoSmithKline
intends to increase the first three interim dividends from nine
pence to 10 pence, with the remainder of the total dividend
for the year being allocated to the fourth quarter dividend.GlaxoSmithKline 87
Financial statements
This section comprises the Directors’ statements of responsibility,
the Independent Auditors’ report on the Financial statements, the
Financial statements consisting of the principal Financial statements
and supporting notes.
88 Directors’ statements of responsibility
89 Independent Auditors’ report
Financial statements
90 Consolidated statement of profit and loss
90 Consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses
92 Consolidated statement of cash flow
94 Consolidated balance sheet
94 Reconciliation of movements in consolidated equity shareholders’
funds
95 Company balance sheet
Notes to the financial statements
96 1. Presentation of the Financial statements
97 2. Accounting policies
99 3. New accounting policies and future requirements
99 4. Exchange rates
100 5. Merger of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham
100 6. Segment information
102 7. Merger items, restructuring costs and divested businesses
103 8. Other operating income/(expense)
104 9. Operating profit
104 10. Joint ventures and associated undertakings
105 11. Net interest payable
105 12. Taxation
107 13. Earnings per share
107 14. Dividends
108 15. Goodwill
108 16. Other intangible assets
109 17. Tangible fixed assets
109 18. Fixed asset investments
110 19. Equity investments
110 20. Stocks
110 21. Debtors
110 22. Other creditors
111 23. Provisions for liabilities and charges
111 24. Contingent liabilities
112 25. Net debt
113 26. Commitments
114 27. Share capital and share premium account
114 28. Non-equity minority interests
115 29. Reserves
116 30. Legal proceedings
122 31. Post balance sheet event
122 32. Related party transactions
123 33. Acquisitions and disposals
125 34. Financial instruments and related disclosures
129 35. Employee costs
136 36. Employee share schemes
139 37. Reconciliation to US accounting principles
150 38. Principal Group companies88 GlaxoSmithKline
Directors’ statements of responsibility
Directors’ statement of responsibility in relation to the Internal control
Financial statements
The Board, through the Audit Committee, has reviewed the
The Directors are: assessment of risks and the internal control framework that
operates in GlaxoSmithKline and has considered the effectiveness
• responsible for ensuring the maintenance of proper accounting
of the system of internal control in operation intheGroup for the
records, which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial
year covered by this report and up to the date of its approval by
position of the Group at any time and from which financial
the Board of Directors.
statements can beprepared to comply with the Companies
Act1985
TheCombined Code
• required by law to prepare financial statements for each
The Board considers that GlaxoSmithKline plc applies the principles
financial period which give a true and fair view of the state
of theCombined Codeon Corporate Governance of the Financial
of affairs of the company and the Group as at the end of
Reporting Council, asdescribed under ‘Corporate governance’
the financial period and ofthe profit or loss for that period
(pages33to42), and has complied with itsprovisionsexcept as
• responsible also for ensuring the operation of systems of described on page41.
internalcontrol and for taking reasonable steps to safeguard
As required by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority,
the assets of the Group and for preventing and detecting
the auditors haveconsidered the Directors’ statement of
fraud and other irregularities.
compliance in relation to those points of theCombinedCode
The Financial statements for the year ended 31st December 2004, which are specified for theirreview.
comprising principal statements and supporting notes, are set out
in‘Financial statements’ onpages90 to 152of this report. Annual Report
The Directors confirm that suitable accounting policies have been The Annual Report for the year ended 31st December 2004,
consistently applied in the preparation of the Financial statements, comprising the Report of the Directors, the Remuneration Report,
supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates the Financial statements and additional information for investors,
asnecessary; applicable accounting standards have been followed, has been approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its
and the Financial statements have been prepared on the going behalf by
concern basis.
The responsibilities of the auditors in relation to the Financial
statements are set out in the Independent Auditors’ report
(page89opposite).
The Financial statements for the year ended 31st December 2004
are included in the Annual Report 2004, which is published in Sir Christopher Gent
hard-copy printed form and made available on the website. The Chairman
Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 2ndMarch 2005
AnnualReport on the website in accordance with UK legislation
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial
statements. Access to the website is available from outside the
UK, where comparable legislation may be different.
Directors’ remuneration
The Remuneration Report (pages43 to 58of this report) sets
out the remuneration policies operated by GlaxoSmithKline and
disclosures on Directors’ remuneration and other disclosable
information relating to Directors and officers and their interests.
It has been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985
and complies with Section B of theCombined Codeon Corporate
Governance.
Going concern basis
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable
expectationthat the Group and company have adequate resources
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Forthis reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis
inpreparing the Financial statements.GlaxoSmithKline 89
Independent Auditors’ report
to the members of GlaxoSmithKline plc
We have audited the Financial statements which comprise the Basis of audit opinion
consolidated statement of profit and loss, consolidated statement
We conducted our audit in accordance withauditingstandards
of total recognised gains and losses, consolidated statement of
issued by theAuditing Practices Board. An audit includes
cash flow, consolidated and company balance sheets and the
examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevantto the amounts
related notes, which have been prepared under the historical cost
and disclosures in the Financial statements andthe auditable part
convention and the accounting policies set out in the statement
of theDirectors’RemunerationReport. It also includes an
of accounting policies. We have also audited the disclosures
assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by
required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985
thedirectors in the preparation of the Financial statements, and
contained in theDirectors’RemunerationReport (‘the auditable
of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the
part’).
company’scircumstances, consistently applied and adequately
disclosed.
Respective responsibilities ofDirectors andAuditors
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the
TheDirectors’ responsibilities for preparing theannualreportand
information and explanations which we considered necessary in
theFinancial statements in accordance with applicable United
order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable
Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the
assurance that theFinancial statements and the auditable part
statement ofDirectors’ responsibilities. TheDirectors are also
of the Directors’RemunerationReport are free from material
responsible for preparing theDirectors’RemunerationReport.
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or
Our responsibility is to audit the Financial statements and the error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall
auditable part of theDirectors’RemunerationReport in accordance adequacy of the presentation of information in the Financial
with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United statements.
Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices
Board. This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for Opinion
and only for the company’s members as a body in accordance with
In our opinion:
Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility • the Financial statements give a true and fair view of the state
for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report of affairs of the company and the Group at 31st December
is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly 2004andthe profit and cash flows of the Group for theyear
agreed by our prior consent in writing. then ended
• the Financial statements have been properly prepared in
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Financial
accordance with the Companies Act 1985,and
statements give a true and fair view and whether the Financial
• those parts of theDirectors’RemunerationReport required by
statements and the auditable part of theDirectors’Remuneration
Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been
Report have been properly prepared in accordance with the
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Companies Act 1985. We also report to you if, in our opinion,
theDirectors’Reportis not consistent with the Financial
statements, if the company has not kept proper accounting
records, if we have not received all the information and
explanations we require for our audit, or if information specifiedby
law regardingDirectors’ remuneration and transactions is not
disclosed.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
We read the other information contained in theAnnualReport Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
and consider the implications for our report if we become aware Embankment Place
of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the London, England
Financial statements. The other information comprises only the
Financial summary, description of business, unauditable part of the
DirectorsRemunerationReport, the joint statement by the 2ndMarch 2005
Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer, the operating and
financial review and prospects and the corporate governance
statement.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects
the company’s compliance with thenineprovisions of the 2003
FRC Combined Codespecified for our review by the Listing Rules
of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether theBoard’s statements
on internal control cover all risks and controls, orform an opinion
on the effectiveness of the company’s or Group’s corporate
governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.90 GlaxoSmithKline
Consolidated statement of profit and loss
for the year ended 31st December 2004
2004
Statutory
Notes £m
Turnover 6 20,359
Cost of sales (4,309)
Gross profit 16,050
Selling, general and administrative expenditure (7,061)
Research and development expenditure (2,839)
Trading profit 6,150
Other operating income/(expense) 8 (60)
Operating profit 9 6,090
Share of profits/(losses) of joint ventures and associated undertakings 10 95
Profit on disposal of interest in associates 33 138
Product divestments 7 –
(Loss)/profiton disposal of businesses (1)
Profit before interest 6,322
Net interest payable 11 (203)
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 6,119
Taxation 7,12 (1,701)
Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 4,418
Equity minority interests (114)
Preference share dividends (2)
Earnings (Profit attributable to shareholders) 13 4,302
Basic earnings per share 13 75.0p
Adjusted earnings per share 13 75.0p
Diluted earnings per share 13 74.8p
Profit attributable to shareholders 4,302
Dividends 14 (2,402)
Retained profit 1,900
.
Consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses
for the year ended 31st December 2004
2004
£m
Profit attributable to shareholders 4,302
Exchange movements on overseas net assets (54)
Unrealised (loss)/profit on disposal of intellectual property (1)
Tax on exchange movements and unrealised gains (73)
Total recognised gains and losses relating to the year 4,174
Prior year adjustment – implementation of UITF17 (revised) and UITF 38 368
Total recognised gains and losses 4,542Consolidated statement of profit and lossGlaxoSmithKline 91
2003 2002
Merger, Merger,
Business restructuring Business restructuring
performance and disposal Statutory performance and disposal Statutory
(restated) of subsidiaries (restated) (restated) of subsidiaries (restated)
£m £m £m £m £m £m
21,441 – 21,441 21,212 – 21,212
(4,188) (356) (4,544) (4,243) (366) (4,609)
17,253 (356) 16,897 16,969 (366) 16,603
(7,579) (18) (7,597) (7,525) (498) (8,023)
(2,770) (21) (2,791) (2,732) (168) (2,900)
6,904 (395) 6,509 6,712 (1,032) 5,680
(133) – (133) (111) – (111)
6,771 (395) 6,376 6,601 (1,032) 5,569
93 – 93 75 – 75
– – – – – –
– – – – 11 11
– 5 5 – 10 10
6,864 (390) 6,474 6,676 (1,011) 5,665
(161) – (161) (141) – (141)
6,703 (390) 6,313 6,535 (1,011) 5,524
(1,838) 109 (1,729) (1,763) 299 (1,464)
4,865 (281) 4,584 4,772 (712) 4,060
(94) – (94) (110) – (110)
(12) – (12) (20) – (20)
4,759 (281) 4,478 4,642 (712) 3,930
– 77.1p – 66.5p
82.0p – 78.6p –
– 76.9p – 66.3p
4,478 3,930
(2,374) (2,346)
2,104 1,584
2003 2002
(restated) (restated)
£m £m
4,478 3,930
113 (82)
7 7
(92) (65)
4,506 3,79092 GlaxoSmithKline
Consolidated statement of cash flow
for the year ended 31st December 2004
Reconciliation of operating profit to operating cash flows 2003 2002
2004 (restated) (restated)
Notes £m £m £m
Operating profit 6,090 6,376 5,569
Depreciation 785 773 764
Impairment and assets written off 88 250 288
Amortisation of goodwill and intangible fixed assets 106 87 72
Loss on sale of tangible fixed assets 2 – 26
Profit on sale of equity investments (33) (89) (46)
Increasein stocks (33) (76) (2)
Increase in trade and other debtors (447) (552) (72)
Increase/(decrease)in trade and other creditors 163 (69) 459
(Decrease)/increase in provisions (176) 260 256
Other (18) 45 (59)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 6,527 7,005 7,255
Cash flow statement
Net cash inflow from operating activities 6,527 7,005 7,255
Dividends from joint ventures and associated undertakings 11 1 2
Returns on investment and servicing of finance (252) (231) (237)
Taxation paid (1,583) (1,917) (1,633)
Capital expenditure and financial investment (1,035) (954) (1,178)
Acquisitions and disposals 33 (69) (12) (20)
Equity dividends paid (2,475) (2,333) (2,327)
Net cash inflowbefore management of liquid resources and financing 1,124 1,559 1,862
Management of liquid resources (413) (1,336) 52
Financing (454) (250) (1,509)
Increase/(decrease)in cash in the year 257 (27) 405
Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt
Net debt at beginning of year (1,648) (2,335) (2,101)
Increase/(decrease) in cash in the year 257 (27) 405
Cash outflow/(inflow) from management of liquid resources 413 1,336 (52)
Net increase in long-term loans (1,350) (1,023) (1,005)
Net repayment of short-term loans 407 442 542
Net repayment of obligations under finance leases 22 – 1
Net non-cash funds of subsidiary undertakings acquired – – (4)
Exchange adjustments 24 (37) (121)
Other non-cash movements (109) (4) –
Movement in net debt (336) 687 (234)
Net debt at end of year 25 (1,984) (1,648) (2,335)Consolidated statement of cash flowGlaxoSmithKline 93
Analysis of cash flows Notes 2003 2002
2004 (restated) (restated)
£m £m £m
Returns on investment and servicing of finance
Interest received 95 65 83
Interest paid (272) (197) (215)
Dividends paid to minority shareholders (73) (84) (85)
Dividends paid on preference shares (2) (15) (20)
(252) (231) (237)
Capital expenditure and financial investment
Purchase of tangible fixed assets (865) (869) (1,044)
Sale of tangible fixed assets 53 46 59
Purchase of intangible assets (178) (193) (182)
Product divestments – – (1)
Purchase of equity investments (103) (63) (75)
Sale of equity investments 58 125 65
(1,035) (954) (1,178)
Acquisitions and disposals 33
Purchase of businesses (297) (12) (21)
Disposal of businesses 42 3 6
Investment in joint ventures and associated undertakings (2) (3) (5)
Disposal of interests in associates 188 – –
(69) (12) (20)
Financing
Issue of share capital 27 42 41 56
Redemption of preference shares issued by asubsidiary (489) – –
Share capital purchased for cancellation (201) (980) (2,220)
Share capital purchased and held as Treasury shares (799) – –
Proceeds from own shares for employee share options 23 26 58
Other financing cash flows 49 82 135
Increase in long-term loans 1,365 1,046 1,094
Repayment of long-term loans (15) (23) (89)
Net repayment of short-term loans (407) (442) (542)
Net repayment of obligations under finance leases (22) – (1)
(454) (250) (1,509)
Analysis of changes in net debt At 1.1.04 Exchange Other Cash flow At 31.12.04
£m £m £m £m £m
Cash at bank 962 (21) – 220 1,161
Overdrafts (155) 6 – 37 (112)
807 (15) – 257 1,049
Debt due within one year:
Commercial paper (836) – (1) 7 (830)
Eurobonds and Medium-Term Notes (383) 9 (552) 374 (552)
Other (78) (3) (42) 35 (88)
(1,297) 6 (595) 416 (1,470)
Debt due after one year:
Eurobonds, Medium-Term Notes and private financing (3,617) 116 548 (1,349) (4,302)
Other (34) 5 (62) 12 (79)
(3,651) 121 486 (1,337) (4,381)
Management of liquid resources:
Liquid investments 2,493 (88) – 413 2,818
Net debt (1,648) 24 (109) (251) (1,984)
For further information on significant changes in net debt see Note25‘Net debt’.94 GlaxoSmithKline
Consolidated balance sheet
at 31st December 2004
2003
2004 (restated)
Notes £m £m
Goodwill 15 139 143
Other intangible assets 16 2,003 1,697
2,142 1,840
Tangible assets 17 6,471 6,441
Investments 18 332 294
Fixed assets 8,945 8,575
Equity investments 19 153 164
Stocks 20 2,192 2,109
Debtors 21 7,309 6,897
Liquid investments 25 2,818 2,493
Cash at bank 25 1,161 962
Current assets 13,633 12,625
Loans and overdrafts 25 (1,582) (1,452)
Other creditors 22 (7,140) (7,019)
Creditors: amounts due within one year (8,722) (8,471)
Net current assets 4,911 4,154
Total assets less current liabilities 13,856 12,729
Loans 25 (4,381) (3,651)
Other creditors 22 (244) (232)
Creditors: amounts due after one year (4,625) (3,883)
Provisions for liabilities and charges 23 (3,029) (3,042)
Net assets 6,202 5,804
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 27 1,484 1,487
Share premium account 27 304 264
Other reserves 29 (644) (804)
Profit and loss account 29 4,781 4,112
Equity shareholders’ funds 5,925 5,059
Non-equity minority interests 28 – 503
Equity minority interests 277 242
Capital employed 6,202 5,804
Approved by the Board on 2nd March 2005
Sir Christopher Gent, Chairman
Reconciliation of movements in consolidated equity shareholders’ funds
for the year ended 31st December 2004
2003
2004 (restated)
Notes £m £m
Equity shareholders’ funds as previously reported 7,720 6,581
Prior period adjustment – implementation of UITF 17 (revised) and UITF38 (2,661) (2,741)
Equity shareholders’ funds at beginning ofyearas restated 5,059 3,840
Total recognised gains and losses for the period 4,174 4,506
Dividends 14 (2,402) (2,374)
Ordinary shares issued 42 41
Ordinary shares purchased and cancelled (201) (980)
Ordinary shares purchased and held as Treasury shares (799) –
Proceeds from own shares for employee share options 23 26
Employee share schemes 3 7
Goodwill written back 20 –
Exchange movements on goodwill written off to reserves 6 (7)
Equity shareholders’ funds at end of year 5,925 5,059GlaxoSmithKline 95
Company balance sheet
at 31st December 2004
2004 2003
Notes £m £m
Shares in subsidiary companies – at cost 38 17,930 17,612
Fixed assets 17,930 17,612
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 108 2,969
Taxation 110 52
Cash at bank 22 8
Current assets 240 3,029
Dividends payable 14 (1,258) (1,331)
Amounts owed to Group undertakings (6,821) (8,578)
Creditors: amounts due within one year (8,079) (9,909)
Net current liabilities (7,839) (6,880)
Net assets 10,091 10,732
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 27 1,484 1,487
Share premium account 27 304 264
Other reserves 29 81 76
Profit and loss account 29 8,222 8,905
Equity shareholders’ funds 10,091 10,732
Approved by the Board on 2nd March 2005
Sir Christopher Gent
Chairman96 GlaxoSmithKline
Notes to the financial statements
1 Presentation of the Financial statements Additional information in accordance with the requirements of
USgenerally accepted accounting principles (US GAAP) is included
Description of business
in the Notes to the Financial statements. In Note37a statement
GlaxoSmithKline is a major global healthcare group which is
of differences, and reconciliations of net income and shareholders’
engaged in the creation and discovery, development, manufacture
equity, between UK and US GAAP are provided.
and marketing of pharmaceutical products, including vaccines,
over-the-counter (OTC) medicines and health-related consumer
Presentation of statement of profit and loss
products. GlaxoSmithKline’s principal pharmaceutical products
During the years 2000 to 2003, acolumnar presentationwas
include medicines in the following therapeutic areas:
adopted in the statementof profit and loss in order to illustrate
central nervous system, respiratory, anti-virals, anti-bacterials,
underlying business performance,as thiswasthe primary measure
vaccines, oncology and emesis, metabolic, cardiovascular and
used by management. For this purpose certain itemswere
urogenital.
identified separately andexcluded from business performance.
These comprised: merger and integration items, including product
Financial period
divestments; costs relating to previously announced manufacturing
These Financial statements cover the financial year from
and other restructuring, and theeffect of disposals of subsidiaries.
1st January to 31stDecember 2004, with comparative figures for
Management believes that exclusion of these items provideda
the financial years from 1st January to 31st December 2003 and
better reflection for those years of the way in which the business
from 1st January to31st December 2002.
wasmanaged and gives an indication of the performance of the
Group in terms of those elements of revenue and expenditure
Composition of the Group
which local management is able to influence.
A list of the subsidiary and associated undertakings which, in the
opinion of the Directors, principally affected the amount of profit For 2004, with the completion of these programmes, the Group
or the net assets of the Group is given in Principal Group is reporting results on a statutory basis only. Growth rates are
companies, Note38. presented comparing 2004 results both with 2003 business
performance results and 2003 statutory results. Management
Composition of financial statements considers that the comparison of 2004 statutory results with 2003
The consolidated Financial statements are drawn up in accordance business performance results gives the most appropriate indication
with UK generally accepted accounting principles (UKGAAP) and of the Group’s performance for that period.
with UK accounting presentation.
Trading profit reflects turnover less: cost of sales, comprising
The Financial statements comprise: costs ofmanufacture and external royalties; selling, general and
administrative expenditure, comprising the costs of selling,
• Consolidated statement of profit and loss
distribution and medical support of currently marketed products
• Consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses
and the costs of administration; and the costs of research and
• Consolidated statement of cash flow
development to create future products for sale.
• Consolidated balance sheet
• Reconciliation of movements in consolidated equity
Accounting convention
shareholders’ funds
The Financial statements have been prepared using the historical
• Company balance sheet
cost convention.
• Notes to the financial statements.
As permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, the Accounting standards
profitand loss account of the company is not presented. The Financial statements comply withapplicable UK accounting
standards.
The consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses
includes:
Accounting principles and policies
• the realised profit attributable to shareholders as reflected The preparation of the Financial statements in conformity with
in theconsolidated statement of profit and loss generally accepted accounting principles requires management
• the unrealised gain or loss in the value of the Group’s to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported
overseas net assets, less related foreign currency borrowings, amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent
attributable to currency movements over the period assets and liabilities at the date of the Financial statements and
• tax on the above items. the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the
reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
The reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders’ funds
comprises the items contributing to the increase or decrease The Financial statements have been prepared in accordance with
over the period in shareholders’ funds. Such items include: the company’s accounting policies approved by the Board and
described in Note2.
• the total recognised gains and losses for the period
• dividends paid and proposed
• the proceeds of shares issued during the period
• the cost of shares purchased as Treasury shares or for
cancellation under theshare buy-back programme
• changes to goodwill, arising on acquisitions prior to
1st January 1998, which has been set directly against
reserves.Notes to the financial statements GlaxoSmithKline 97
2 Accounting policies Foreign currency transactions
Foreign currency transactions by Group companies are booked
Consolidation
inlocal currency at the exchange rate ruling on the date of
The consolidated Financial statements include:
transaction, or at the forward rate if hedged by a forward
• the assets and liabilities, and the results and cash flow, of the exchangecontract. Foreign currency assets and liabilities are
company and its subsidiary undertakings, including Employee translated into local currency at rates of exchange ruling at the
Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) Trusts balance sheet date, or at the forward rate. Exchange differences
• the Group’s share of the net assets and results of joint ventures areincluded in trading profit.
and associated undertakings.
Revenue
The Financial statements of undertakings consolidated are made
Revenue is recognised in the profit and loss account when goods
up to 31st December.
are supplied or made available to external customers against orders
Undertakings in which the Group has a material interest are receivedandwhen title and risk of loss passesto the customer.
accounted for as subsidiaries where the Group exercises dominant Turnover represents net invoice value after the deduction of
influence, as joint ventures where the Group exercises joint control discounts given at the point of sale, and accruals for estimated
and as associates where the Group can exercise significant future rebates and returns. The methodology and assumptions
influence. used to estimate rebates and returns are monitored and adjusted
regularly in the light ofcontractual and historical information and
Interests acquired in undertakings are consolidated from the
past experience. Turnover also includes co-promotion income
effective date of acquisition and interests sold are consolidated
where the Group records its share of the revenue but with no
upto the date of disposal.
related cost of sales. Value added tax and other sales taxes are
Transactions and balances between subsidiary undertakings are excluded from revenue.
eliminated; no profit is taken on sales between subsidiary
undertakings or sales to joint ventures and associated undertakings Expenditure
until the products are sold to customers outside the Group. Expenditure is recognised in respect of goods and services received
when supplied in accordance with contractual terms. Provision is
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of interestsin subsidiary
made when an obligation exists for a future liability in respect of a
undertakings, joint ventures and associated undertakings,
past event and where the amount of the obligation can be reliably
representing the excess of the purchase consideration over the
estimated. Advertising and promotion expenditure is charged to
Group’s share of the separable net assets acquired, is capitalised
the profit and loss account as incurred. Shipment costs on inter-
asa separate item in the case of subsidiary undertakings and as
company transfers are charged to cost of sales; distribution costs
part of the cost of investment in the case of joint ventures and
on sales to customers are included in selling, general and
associated undertakings. Goodwill is denominated in the currency
administrative expenditure. Restructuring costs are recognised in
inwhich the acquisition is made and financed. In the case of
respect of the direct expenditures of a business reorganisation
acquisitions prior to 1998, goodwill was written off against
where the plans are sufficiently detailed and well advanced, and
reserves; on a subsequent disposal of assets from such acquisitions,
where appropriate communication to those affected has been
any related goodwill is removed from consolidated reserves and
undertaken at the balance sheet date.
charged to the consolidated profit and lossaccount.
The Group’s interests in its joint ventures are accounted for using Research and development
thegross equity method. The Group’s interests in its associated Research and development expenditure is charged to the profit
undertakings are accounted for using the equity method. and loss account in the period in which it is incurred. Tangible
fixed assets used for research and development are depreciated
Deferred taxation relief on unrealised intra-Group profit is
in accordance with the Group’s policy.
accounted for only to the extent that it is considered recoverable.
Assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiary and associated Environmental expenditure
undertakings and joint ventures including related goodwill, are Environmental expenditure related to existing conditions resulting
translated into sterling at rates of exchange ruling at the balance from past or current operations and from which no current or
sheet date. The results and cash flows of overseas subsidiary and future benefit is discernible is charged to the profit and loss
associated undertakings and joint ventures are translated into account. The Group determines its liability on a site-by-site basis
sterling using average rates of exchange. Exchange adjustments and records a liability at the time when it is probable and can be
arising when the opening net assets and the profits for theyear reasonably estimated. This liability includes the Group’s own
retained by overseas subsidiary and associated undertakings and portion of the costs and also a portion of other potentially
joint ventures are translated into sterling, less exchange differences responsible parties’ costs when it is probable that they will not be
arising on related foreign currency borrowings, are taken directly able to satisfy their respective shares of the clean-up obligation.
to reserves and reported in the statement of total recognised When recoveries of reimbursements are virtually certain they are
gains andlosses. recorded as assets.
In translating into sterlingassets, liabilities, results and cash flows
Pensions and post-retirement benefits
of overseas subsidiary and associated undertakings and joint
The cost of providing pensions and other employee post-retirement
ventures reported in currencies of hyper-inflationary economies,
benefits is charged to the consolidated profit and loss account on a
adjustments aremade to reflect current price levels. Any loss on
systematic and rational basis, based on actuarial assumptions, over
net monetary assetsis charged to the consolidated profit and loss
the period during which benefit is derived from employees’ services.
account.
Any difference between this charge and the contributions paid is
included as an asset or liability in the consolidated balance sheet.98 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
2 Accounting policiescontinued Brands are valued independently as part of the fair value of
businesses acquired from third parties where the brand has a
Legal and other disputes
value which is substantial and long-term and where the brands
Provision is made foranticipated settlement costs where a
can be sold separately from the rest of the businesses acquired.
reasonable estimate can be made of the likely outcome of legal or
Brands areamortised over the estimated useful lives but no longer
other disputes against the Group. In addition provision is made for
than 20years, except where the end of the useful economic life
legaland other expensesarising fromclaims receivedorother
of the brand cannot be foreseen.
disputes.In respect of product liability claims related toproducts
where there is sufficient history of claims made and settlements,an Prior to 1998, acquired minor brands and similar intangibles were
“incurred but not reported” (IBNR) actuarial techniqueisused to eliminated in the Group balance sheet against reserves in the year
determine a reasonable estimate of the Group’s exposureto of acquisition.
unasserted claims for those productsand a provision is made on
that basis. No provision ismade for other unasserted claims or Tangible fixed assets
where an obligation exists under a dispute but it is not possible to Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less provisions for
make a reasonable estimate. Costs associated with claims made by depreciation or impairment. The costs of acquiring and developing
the Group against third parties are charged to the profit and loss computer software for internal use and internet sites for external
account as they are incurred. use are capitalised as a tangible fixed asset where the software or
site supports a significant business system and the expenditure
Employee share plans leads to the creation of a durable asset.
Incentives in the form of shares are provided to employees under
Depreciationis calculated to write off the cost of tangible fixed
share option and share award schemes. In respect of certain award
assets, excluding freehold land, in equal annual instalments over
schemes andshare option grants, the company provides finance to
their expected useful lives. The normal expected useful lives of the
ESOPTrusts to purchase company shares on the open market to
major categories of tangible fixed assets are reviewed annually
meet the company’s obligation to provide shares when employees
and are:
exercise their option or award. Anyexcess of the fair valueof the
shares at the date of the award overthe exercise price of the
Freehold buildings 20 to 50 years
optionsorawards is charged to the profit and loss account over
Leasehold land and The shorter of lease term and 50
the periods of service in respect of which the options and awards
buildings years
are granted. In respect of other share option grants, share options
Plant and machinery 10 to 20 years
when exercised are accounted for as share issues at exercise price.
Fixtures and equipment 3 to 10 years
Additional employer costs in respect of options and awards are
ERP systems software 7 years
charged to the profit and loss account over the periods of service.
Other computer software 3 to 5 years
Assets and liabilities of the ESOP Trusts are included in the Group
Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP)systems software generally
balance sheet. Costs of running theTrusts are charged to the profit
involves significant customisation prior to implementation and is
and loss account. Company shares held by theTrusts are deducted
expected to have a useful economic life of seven years, rather than
from other reserves and held at a value whichrecognisesany
the maximum five years of other computer software. Ondisposal
shortfall in the proceeds receivable from employees on exercise.
of a tangible fixed asset, the cost and related accumulated
Ifthere is deemed to be a further permanent impairment in value
depreciation are removed from the financial statements and the
this is reflected by a transfer to profit and loss account reserve.
net amount, less any proceeds, is taken to the consolidated profit
and loss account.
Goodwill
Goodwill is stated at cost less a provision for amortisation.
Leases
Amortisation is calculated to write off the cost in equal annual
Leasing agreements which transfer to the Group substantially all
instalments over its expected useful life. The useful life is not
the benefits and risks of ownership of an asset are treated as
normally expected to exceed 20 years.
finance leases, as if the asset had been purchased outright. The
assets are included intangible fixed assets and the capital element
Intangible fixed assets
of the leasing commitments is shown as obligations under finance
Intangible assets are stated at cost less a provision for amortisation.
leases. Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the
Acquired licences, patents, know-how and marketing rights are shorter ofthe lease terms and the useful lives of the assets. The
amortised over their estimated useful lives in equal instalments, interest element of the lease rental is charged against profit.
but no longer than 15 years. Items capitalised are restricted to All other leases are operating leases and the annual rentals are
those related to specific compounds or products which are being charged against profit on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
developed for commercial applications. The estimated useful lives
for determining the amortisation charge are reviewed annually, Impairment of fixed assets
andtake into account the estimated time it takes to bring the The carrying values of fixed assets are reviewed for impairment
compounds or products to market as marketable products. when there is an indication that the assets might be impaired.
Anydevelopment costs which are incurred by the Group and Any provision for impairment is charged against profit in the year
areassociated with an acquired licence, patent, know-how or concerned. Firstyear impairment reviews are conducted for
marketing rights are written off to the profit and loss account acquired goodwill and intangible assets. Certain intangibles are
whenincurred. considered to have anindefinite life and are therefore not
amortised. Such intangibles are subject to annual impairment tests.
Impairment is determined byreference to the higher of net
realisable value and value in use, which is measured by reference
to discounted future cash flows.Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 99
2 Accounting policiescontinued Gains and losses on foreign exchange contracts designated as
hedges of forecast foreign exchange transactions are deferred
Investments in joint ventures and associates
and included in the measurement of the related foreign currency
Investments in joint ventures and associated undertakings are
transactions in the period they occur. Gains and losses on balance
carried in the consolidated balance sheet at the Group’s share
sheet hedges are accrued and are taken directly to reserves, except
oftheir net assets at date of acquisition and of their post-
that forward premiums/discounts are recognised as interest over
acquisition retained profits or losses together with any goodwill
the life of the contracts.
arising on the acquisition, net of amortisation.
Interest differentials under interest swap agreements are recognised
Stocks in the profit and loss account by adjustment ofinterest expense
Stocksare included in the financial statements at the lower of over the life of the agreement.
cost (including manufacturing overheads, where appropriate) and
net realisable value. Cost is generally determined on a first in, Debt instruments
firstout basis. Debt instruments are stated at the amount of net proceeds
adjustedto amortise the issue cost of debt evenly over the
Taxation termof the debt.
The Group accounts for taxation which is deferred or accelerated
by reason of timing differences which have originated but not 3 New accounting policies and future requirements
reversed by the balance sheet date. Deferred tax assets are only
In December 2003,the Urgent Issues Task Force issued Abstract
recognised to the extent that they are considered recoverable
38 and amended Abstract 17,relating to the accounting for and
against future taxable profits. Deferred tax on the retained
presentation of ESOPTrustsand share options and awards granted
earnings of overseas subsidiaries is only provided when there is a
to employees. These requirements became mandatory for 2004
binding commitment to distribute past earnings in future periods.
reporting and require the shares held by the ESOP Trusts to be
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected shown as a deduction in arriving at shareholders’ funds. The
to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are charge to the profit and loss account for employee share options
expected to reverse. Deferred tax liabilities and assets are not is restricted to the intrinsic loss, the difference between the market
discounted. price and exercise price, at the date of grant. Comparative data
for prior periods has been restated for comparability.Trading profit
Current asset investments and profit before tax in 2003 have been reduced by £16 million
Current asset investments are stated at the lower of cost and net and net assets at 31st December 2003 by £2,661 million. It is not
realisable value. practicable to quantify the effect on 2004 because of the different
measurement basis adopted.
In the case of securities acquired at a significant premium or
discount to maturity value, and intended to be held to redemption, In June 2002, the Council of the European Union adopted a
cost is adjusted to amortise the premium or discount over the life Regulation requiring listed companies in its Member States to
tomaturity of the security. Floating rate bonds are stated at cost. prepare their consolidated financial statements in accordance
Interest income is taken to the profit and loss account on a with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) from 2005.
receivable basis. GlaxoSmithKlinehas completed itsconversion project,subject to
any changes in standards and pronouncements, andunaudited
Equity investments are included as current assets when regarded
information for 2004 and 2003 restated onto anIFRS basis,is
asavailable for sale.
given on pages163to173.
Derivative financial instruments
4 Exchange rates
The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments
for trading purposes. The Group uses the average of exchange rates prevailing during
the period to translate the results and cash flows of overseas
Derivative financial instruments are used to manage exposure to
subsidiaries, joint ventures and associated undertakings into
market risks from treasury operations. The principal derivative
sterling and period end rates to translate the net assets of those
instruments are currency swaps, forward exchange contracts and
undertakings. Thecurrencies which most influence these
interest rate swaps. The derivative contracts are treated from
translations, and the relevant exchange rates, were:
inception as an economic hedge of the underlying financial
instrument, with matching accounting treatment and cash flows. 2004 2003 2002
The derivative contracts have high correlation with the specific Average rates:
financial instrument being hedged both at inception and £/US$ 1.83 1.64 1.50
throughout the hedge period. Derivative instruments no longer £/Euro 1.47 1.45 1.59
designated as hedges are restated at market value and any future £/Yen 197.00 191.00 188.00
changes in value are taken directly to the profit and loss account. Period end rates:
£/US$ 1.92 1.79 1.61
Currency swaps and forward exchange contracts used to fix the
£/Euro 1.41 1.42 1.54
value of the related asset or liability in the contract currency and
£/Yen 197.00 192.00 192.00
at the contract rate are accrued to the profit and loss account
over the life of the contract.100 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
5 Merger of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham
The combination of Glaxo Wellcome plc and SmithKline Beecham plc was treated as a merger at 27th December 2000 under UKGAAP.
Under the mergerrelief provisions of the Companies Act 1985, the shares issued by GlaxoSmithKline plc to acquire Glaxo Wellcome and
SmithKline Beecham were accountedfor at par and no share premium arose; the shares acquired by GlaxoSmithKline in Glaxo Wellcome
and SmithKline Beecham were similarly accounted for at the nominal value of the shares issued. In the consolidated Financial statements
of GlaxoSmithKline, the results and net assets of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham were combined at their book amounts, subject
to alignment adjustments.
6 Segment information
An analysis of turnover, profit before taxation, total assetsandnet assetsby business and geographical sector, tangible fixed assets by
geographical sector and turnover by location of customerareset out below. The business sectors consist of Pharmaceuticals (prescription
pharmaceuticals and vaccines) and Consumer Healthcare (oralcare, OTC medicines and nutritional healthcare). Assets by business sector
in 2003 have been adjusted to ensure consistency with 2004. Thegeographical sectors reflect the Group’s most significant regional
markets and are consistent with the Group’s regional market management reportingstructure. Business sector data includes an allocation
of corporate costs to each sector. There are no sales between business sectors.
The Group’s activities are organised on a global basis. The geographical sector figures are therefore influenced by the location of the
Group’s operating resources, in particular manufacturing and research, and by variations over time in intra-Group trading and funding
arrangements.
Where the Group co-promotes a product and the third party records the sale, the Group records its share of revenue as co-promotion
income within turnover. The nature of co-promotion activitiesissuch that the Group records no costs of sales. Pharmaceutical turnover
includes co-promotion income of £65million (2003 – £35 million, 2002 – £nil).
2003 2002
2004 (restated) (restated)
Turnover by business sector £m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals 17,146 18,181 17,995
Consumer Healthcare 3,213 3,260 3,217
External turnover 20,359 21,441 21,212
Statutory profit before tax by business sector
Pharmaceuticals 5,428 5,785 5,085
Consumer Healthcare 662 591 484
Operating profit 6,090 6,376 5,569
Share of profits of joint ventures and associated undertakings 95 93 75
Profit on disposal of interest in associate 138 – –
(Loss)/profit on disposal of businesses (1) 5 10
Product divestments – – 11
Net interest payable (203) (161) (141)
Profit before taxation 6,119 6,313 5,524
Profit before taxation 6,119 6,313 5,524
Taxation (1,701) (1,729) (1,464)
Minority interests (114) (94) (110)
Preference share dividends (2) (12) (20)
Statutory earnings 4,302 4,478 3,930
Total assets by business sector
Pharmaceuticals 18,875 17,384
Consumer Healthcare 3,703 3,816
Total assets 22,578 21,200
Net assets by business sector
Pharmaceuticals 3,698 3,316
Consumer Healthcare 2,504 2,488
Net assets 6,202 5,804Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 101
6 Segment informationcontinued
2003 2002
2004 (restated) (restated)
Turnover by location of subsidiary undertaking £m £m £m
USA 9,524 10,569 11,096
Europe 11,431 11,798 10,423
International 7,847 7,945 6,824
Turnover including inter-segment turnover 28,802 30,312 28,343
USA (289) (219) (168)
Europe (4,278) (4,690) (3,873)
International (3,876) (3,962) (3,090)
Inter-segment turnover (8,443) (8,871) (7,131)
USA 9,235 10,350 10,928
Europe 7,153 7,108 6,550
International 3,971 3,983 3,734
External turnover 20,359 21,441 21,212
Statutory profit before tax by location of subsidiary undertaking
USA 1,266 1,983 2,117
Europe 2,739 3,045 2,508
International 2,085 1,348 944
Operating profit 6,090 6,376 5,569
Share of profits of joint ventures and associated undertakings 95 93 75
Profit on disposal of interest in associate 138 – –
Profit on disposal of businesses (1) 5 10
Product divestments – – 11
Net interest payable (203) (161) (141)
Profit before taxation 6,119 6,313 5,524
Profit before taxation 6,119 6,313 5,524
Taxation (1,701) (1,729) (1,464)
Minority interests (114) (94) (110)
Preference share dividends (2) (12) (20)
Statutory earnings 4,302 4,478 3,930
Total assets by location of subsidiary undertaking
USA 4,351 4,385
Europe 11,374 10,362
International 2,874 2,998
Total operating assets 18,599 17,745
Cash at bank and liquid investments 3,979 3,455
Total assets 22,578 21,200
Net assets by location of subsidiary undertaking
USA 233 484
Europe 5,973 4,922
International 1,980 2,046
Net operating assets 8,186 7,452
Net debt (1,984) (1,648)
Net assets 6,202 5,804102 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
6 Segment informationcontinued 2004 2003
Plant,
Land and equipment Computer Assets in
buildings and vehicles software construction Total Total
Tangible fixed assets by location of subsidiary undertaking £m £m £m £m £m £m
USA 662 399 40 157 1,258 1,295
Europe 1,591 2,023 159 500 4,273 4,184
International 503 357 11 69 940 962
Total 2,756 2,779 210 726 6,471 6,441
2004 2003 2002
Turnover by location of customer £m £m £m
USA 9,243 10,333 10,807
Europe 6,658 6,611 6,064
International 4,458 4,497 4,341
External turnover 20,359 21,441 21,212
UK segment
Information is given separately in respect of the UK, which, although included in the Group’s Europe market region, is considered the
Group’s home segment for the purposes of segmental reporting.
2003 2002
2004 (restated) (restated)
£m £m £m
Turnover by location of customer 1,461 1,404 1,366
Turnover including inter-segment turnover 4,467 4,678 4,945
Inter-segment turnover (2,709) (2,883) (3,230)
Turnover by location of subsidiary 1,758 1,795 1,715
Operating profit 1,403 1,519 1,294
Total assets 7,578 7,145
Net operating assets 2,635 2,023
7 Merger items, restructuring costs and divested businesses
Manufacturing and other restructuring costs were incurred by GlaxoSmithKline during 2003 and 2002 in the implementation of previously
announced plans for the restructuring of manufacturing and other activities.
Merger integration costs relate to the integration of Glaxo Wellcomeand SmithKline Beecham into a unified GlaxoSmithKline business.
These costs include consultancy fees in respect of integration planning, severance costs, asset write-offs, costs related to the early vesting
or lapse of performance conditions on share options and share incentive awards and costs of the programme to encourage staff to convert
Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham share options into GlaxoSmithKline share options. Integration costs were incurred in 2003 and
2002 relating to the integration of the Block Drug businesses. These costs include professional fees, severance costs and asset write-offs.
Product divestment income arising in 2002 related to the finalisation of the disposals of Famvir, Kytrilandother products required in 2000
in order to obtain regulatory approval for the merger.
The disposal of businesses in 2003 and 2002 related to the finalisation of the disposals of Clinical Laboratories and Healthcare Services
in 1999.Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 103
7 Merger items, restructuring costs and divested businesses continued
Disposal of
Merger Restructuring Block Drug subsidiaries Total
2003 £m £m £m £m £m
Manufacturing and other restructuring – (83) – – (83)
Merger integration costs (286) – – – (286)
Block Drug integration costs – – (26) – (26)
Effect on operating profit (286) (83) (26) – (395)
Profit on disposal of businesses – – – 5 5
Effect on profit before tax (286) (83) (26) 5 (390)
Effect on taxation – operating items 98
Effect on taxation – non-operating items 11
Effect on taxation 109
Effect on earnings (281)
Disposal of
Merger Restructuring Block Drug subsidiaries Total
2002 £m £m £m £m £m
Manufacturing and other restructuring – (121) – – (121)
Merger integration costs (851) – – – (851)
Block Drug integration costs – – (60) – (60)
Effect on operating profit (851) (121) (60) – (1,032)
Product divestments 11 – – – 11
Profit on disposal of businesses – – – 10 10
Effect on profit before tax (840) (121) (60) 10 (1,011)
Effect on taxation – operating items 266
Effect on taxation – non-operating items 33
Effect on taxation 299
Effect on earnings (712)
8 Other operating income/(expense)
2004 2003 2002
£m £m £m
Royalties and other income 96 75 75
Other operating expense (296) (436) (209)
(200) (361) (134)
Income from equity investments and other disposals 140 228 23
(60) (133) (111)
Royalties and other income is principally a core of recurring income in the form of royalties from the out-licensing of intellectual property.
Other operating expense includes litigation costs and provisions relating to legal claims on withdrawn products, product withdrawals,
anti-trust mattersand claims with respect to sales, marketing and reimbursement. Income from equity investments and other disposals
includes equity investment carrying value adjustments arising from stock market changes, product disposals and equity investment sales.104 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
9 Operating profit 2003 2002
2004 (restated) (restated)
£m £m £m
The following items have been charged in operating profit:
Employee costs(Note 35) 4,704 5,074 4,922
Advertising 599 615 688
Distribution costs 271 284 281
Depreciation of tangible fixed assets:
Owned assets 780 771 760
Leased assets 5 2 4
Amortisation of goodwill 12 13 12
Amortisation of intangible fixed assets 94 74 60
Exchange losses on foreign currency deposits/loans – (1) –
Operating lease rentals:
Plant 56 90 50
Land and buildings 63 62 61
Audit fees 7.2 6.9 6.1
Fees to auditors for other work:
Auditors’ UKfirm 2.6 1.7 5.2
Auditors’ overseas firms 4.7 5.9 9.6
Analysis of fees to auditors for other work:
Further assurance (audit-related) services 3.4 2.6 1.8
Tax services 3.0 4.6 4.9
Merger of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham – – 6.0
Other services 0.9 0.4 2.1
Included within audit fees above is a fee of£10,000(2003 – £10,000, 2002 – £10,000) relating to the company audit of
GlaxoSmithKline plc. Included in further assurance services in 2004 and 2003 are amounts related to the Group’s preparation for the
adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards and preparation for section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002. Tax services
relates to fees paid for corporate tax compliance, tax planning and advice. Other services include human resources advisory, compliance
and treasury related services. Included within fees to auditors for other work in 2002 is £6.0 million paid to the auditor’s management
consulting practice, which was sold by them in 2002.
In 2004 and 2003, the Group applied discounting to certain long-term assets and liabilities, using risk-free rates of return.
10 Joint ventures and associated undertakings
2004 2003 2002
£m £m £m
Associated undertakings:
Share of profits of Quest Diagnostics Inc. 100 102 94
Share of losses of other associated undertakings (1) (3) –
Amortisation of goodwill (5) (6) (6)
94 93 88
Share of profits/(losses)of joint ventures 1 – (13)
95 93 75
Share of turnover of joint ventures 31 31 29
Sales to joint ventures and associated undertakings 50 51 49Notes to the financial statements GlaxoSmithKline 105
11 Net interest payable 2004 2003 2002
£m £m £m
Interest payable
On bank loans and overdrafts (6) (6) (6)
On other loans (273) (186) (198)
In respect of finance leases (2) (2) (2)
Realised losses (1) – –
Unwinding of discount on provisions (16) (20) –
(298) (214) (206)
Share of interest payable of associate (7) (8) (8)
(305) (222) (214)
Investment income
Interest income 99 58 71
Realised gains – – 2
Unwinding of discount on assets 3 3 –
102 61 73
(203) (161) (141)
12 Taxation
2003 2002
2004 (restated) (restated)
Taxation charge based on profits for the period £m £m £m
UK corporation tax at the UK statutory rate 429 673 479
Less double taxation relief (156) (290) (117)
273 383 362
Overseas taxation 1,394 1,578 1,036
Deferred taxation (6) (272) 32
1,661 1,689 1,430
Share of taxation charge of associates 40 40 34
1,701 1,729 1,464
2003 2002
2004 (restated) (restated)
Reconciliation of the current taxation rate on Group profits % % %
UKstatutory rate of taxation 30.0 30.0 30.0
Overseas taxes 1.2 0.1 0.1
Average Group tax rate 31.2 30.1 30.1
Effect of special tax status in manufacturing locations (3.6) (3.9) (3.9)
Share option deductions (0.2) (0.1) (0.2)
Merger and restructuring costs – (0.1) 0.7
R&D credits (1.5) (1.1) (1.2)
Other permanent differences 2.1 1.1 (0.8)
Capital allowances in excess of depreciation 0.3 (0.3) (0.5)
Intra-Group profit 0.3 (0.1) 1.3
Reversing timing differences on tax losses (1.6) – –
Other timing differences (0.7) 4.0 2.2
Prior year items 1.0 1.5 (2.4)
Current tax rate on ordinary activities 27.3 31.1 25.3
Capital allowances in excess of depreciation (0.3) 0.3 0.5
Intra-Group profit (0.3) 0.1 (1.3)
Reversing timing differences on tax losses 1.6 – –
Other timing differences 0.7 (4.0) (2.2)
Share of taxation charge of associates 0.6 0.6 0.6
Prior year items (1.8) (0.6) 3.6
UITF 17 restatement – (0.1) –
Tax rate on ordinary activities 27.8 27.4 26.5
The Group operates in countries where the tax rate differs from the UKtax rate. The average Group tax rate has been determined
by aggregating the local standard tax rates and weighting these in proportion to accounting profits. Profits arising from manufacturing
operations in Singapore, Puerto Rico and Ireland are taxed at reduced rates. The effect of this reduction in the taxation charge increased
earnings per share by 3.8pin 2004,4.2p in 2003 and 3.7p in 2002.106 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
12 Taxation continued
The integrated nature of the Group’s worldwide operations, involving significant investment in research and strategic manufacture at a
limited number of locations, with consequential cross-border supply routes into numerous end-markets, gives rise to complexity and
delayin negotiations with revenue authorities as to the profits on which individual Group companies are liable to tax. Disagreements
with, and between, revenue authorities as to intra-Group transactions, in particular the price at which goods should be transferred
between Group companies in different tax jurisdictions, can produce conflicting claims from revenue authorities as to the profits to be
taxed in individual territories. Resolution of such issues is a continuing fact of life for GlaxoSmithKline. The Group has open issues with
the revenue authorities in the USA, UK, Japan and Canada. By far the largest relates to Glaxo heritage products, in respect of which the
US Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and UK Inland Revenue have made competing and contradictory claims.
GlaxoSmithKline has attempted to settle the US dispute, first through direct discussion with the IRS and subsequently through discussions
between the US and UK authorities under the terms of the double tax convention between the two countries and discussions were
terminated in July 2003. On 6th January 2004, the IRS issued a Notice of Deficiency for the years 1989-1996 claiming additional taxes
of$2.7 billion. On 2nd April 2004 the Group filed a petition in the US Tax Court disputing the IRS claim and seeking a refund of $1 billion
in taxes.On 25th January 2005 the IRS issued a further Notice of Deficiency for the years 1997-2000 claiming additional taxes of
$1.9 billion.If the IRS claims for the years 1989-2000were upheld, the Group would additionally be liable for interest on late payment,
estimated to amount to$3.0 billionnet of federal tax relief at 31st December 2004,giving a total of $7.6 billionfor the years 1989-2000.
The Group expects tofile a petition against thetax claims for 1997-2000in April 2005, including a further claim for refund of taxes, and
will ask the Tax Courtto consolidatethe IRS claims for all the years 1989-2000 into a single trial. A provisional trial date for the
1989-1996 claims has been setfor October 2006. As similar tax issues remain open for 2001 to date, GlaxoSmithKline expects to receive
further substantial claims by the IRS forthese years.GlaxoSmithKline continues to believe that the profits reported by its US subsidiaries
for the period 1989 to date, on which ithas paid taxesin the USA, are more than sufficient to reflect the activities of its US operations.
GlaxoSmithKlineis in continuing discussions with the Inland Revenue in respect of UK transfer pricing disputes.
GlaxoSmithKline uses the best advice in determining its transfer pricing methodology and in seeking to manage transfer pricing issues to
a satisfactory conclusion and, on the basis ofexternal professional advice, continues to believe that it has made adequate provision for the
liabilities likely to arise from open assessments. However, there continues to be a wide difference of views between the Group, the IRS,
the Inland Revenue and other relevanttaxation authorities where open issues exist. The ultimate liability for such matters may vary from
amounts provided and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation proceedings and negotiations with the relevant tax authorities.
Except as shown in this Annual Report, no provision has been made for taxation which would arise on the distribution of profits retained
by overseas subsidiary and associated undertakings, on the grounds that no remittance of profit retained at31st December 2004 is
required in such a way that incremental tax will arise.
At 31st December 2004, the Group had income tax losses of approximately£385million (2003 – £225 million) and capital losses estimated
to be in excess of£10billion (2003 – in excess of £10 billion) on which the related deferred tax assets are not recognisedbecause there is
insufficient evidence that these losses will be used.
Current Deferred Deferred
tax creditor tax debtor tax provision
Tax balances £m £m £m
At 1st January 2004 (1,458) 1,441 (618)
Exchange adjustments 67 (52) –
Charge to profit and loss account (1,667) 148 (142)
Cash paid 1,583 – –
Other movements (123) – 50
At 31st December 2004 (1,598) 1,537 (710)
2003
2004 (restated)
Deferred taxation asset/(liability) £m £m
Accelerated capital allowances (664) (689)
Stock valuation adjustment (51) (52)
Intra-Group profit 594 485
Product and business disposals (31) (59)
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits 38 113
Tax losses 20 94
Legal and other disputes 157 167
Merger integration and manufacturing restructuring 89 157
Other net timing differences 675 607
827 823
Deferred taxation provided on stock valuation adjustments, intra-Group profit and other timing differences shown above arecurrent. All
deferred taxation movements arise from the origination and reversal of timing differences. Other net timing differences include accrued
expenses and other provisions.Notes to the financial statements GlaxoSmithKline 107
13 Earnings per share
2003 2002
2004 (restated) (restated)
p p p
Basic earnings per share 75.0 77.1 66.5
Adjustment for merger items, restructuring costs and disposal of subsidiaries:
Merger integration and transaction costs – 3.8 10.8
Restructuring costs – 1.0 1.5
Block Drug integration costs – 0.3 0.7
Disposal of businesses – (0.2) (0.9)
Adjusted earnings per share 75.0 82.0 78.6
Diluted earnings per share 74.8 76.9 66.3
Basic and adjusted earnings per share have been calculated by dividing the profit attributable to shareholders by the weighted average
number ofshares in issue during the period. The numbers used in calculating basic and diluted earnings per share are reconciledbelow.
Adjusted earnings per share is calculated using business performance earnings.During the years 2000 to 2003, business performance was
the primary performance measure used by management and was presented after excluding merger items, integration and restructuring
costs and disposals of businesses, as management believed that exclusion of theseitems provided a better comparison of business
performance for the periods presented. For 2004, with the completion of these programmes, the Group is reporting results on a statutory
basis only.This information, which is provided in addition to the statutory results prepared under UKGAAP, is given to assist shareholders
to gain a clearer understanding of the underlying performance of the business and to increase comparability for the periods presented.
Net profit for the period attributable to shareholders £m £m £m
Earnings – basic and diluted 4,302 4,478 3,930
Adjustments for merger items, restructuring costs and disposal of subsidiaries – 281 712
Adjusted earnings 4,302 4,759 4,642
Weighted average number of shares in issue millions millions millions
Basic and adjusted 5,736 5,806 5,912
Dilution for share options 12 18 22
Diluted 5,748 5,824 5,934
Shares held by the ESOPTrustsare excluded. The trustees have waived their rights to dividends on the shares held by the ESOP Trusts.
14 Dividends 2004 2003 2002
£m £m £m
First interim 575 524 535
Second interim 573 522 530
Third interim 571 520 527
Fourth interim 683 808 754
2,402 2,374 2,346
2004 2003 2002
Dividends per share p p p
First interim 10 9 9
Second interim 10 9 9
Third interim 10 9 9
Fourth interim 12 14 13
42 41 40108 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
15 Goodwill Total
£m
Cost at 1st January 2004 195
Exchange adjustments 13
Asset written off (2)
Cost at 31st December 2004 206
Amortisation at 1st January 2004 (52)
Exchange adjustments (4)
Provision for the year (12)
Asset written off 1
Amortisation at 31st December 2004 (67)
Net book value at 1st January 2004 143
Net book value at 31st December 2004 139
Licences,
16 Other intangible assets patents, etc. Brands Total
£m £m £m
Cost at 1st January 2004 838 1,169 2,007
Exchange adjustments (24) (25) (49)
Additions 462 – 462
Disposals (1) (1) (2)
Assets written off (19) – (19)
Cost at 31st December 2004 1,256 1,143 2,399
Amortisation at 1st January 2004 (229) – (229)
Exchange adjustments 7 – 7
Provision for the year (94) – (94)
Disposals 1 – 1
Assets written off 1 – 1
Amortisation at 31st December 2004 (314) – (314)
Impairment at 1st January 2004 (58) (23) (81)
Exchange adjustments 1 1 2
Impairment loss (4) – (4)
Disposals – 1 1
Impairment at 31st December 2004 (61) (21) (82)
Total amortisation and impairment at 31st December 2004 (375) (21) (396)
Net book value at 1st January 2004 551 1,146 1,697
Net book value at 31st December 2004 881 1,122 2,003
The additions to licences and patentsin the year relate to thepurchasesof Fraxiparineand Arixtraproduct rightsfromSanofi-Synthelabo,
the OTC marketing rights for orlistat from Rocheand various other compound rights(see Note26).
Brands largely comprise a portfolio of products acquired with the acquisition of Sterling Winthrop Inc. in 1994, such as Panadol, Solpadeine
and Hedex, and the products acquired with the acquisition of The Block Drug Company in 2001, such as Sensodyne, Polident andPoligrip.
Each of these is considered to have an indefinite life given the strength and durability of the brand and the level of marketing support.
Accordingly, they are not amortised. Thevaluation of each Sterling brand is reviewed annually using a 10 year cash flow forecast as this
was the basis for the original independent assessment when they were acquired in 1994 and a post-tax discount rate of eight per cent.
The valuation of each Block Drug brand is also reviewed annually using a five year cash flow forecast and a post-tax discount rate of
eight per cent.Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 109
Plant,
Land and equipment Computer Assets in
17 Tangible fixed assets buildings and vehicles software construction Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Cost at 1st January 2004 3,999 7,206 431 768 12,404
Exchange adjustments (78) (91) (6) (3) (178)
Additions 91 363 8 531 993
Disposals (61) (270) (13) (6) (350)
Reclassifications 113 291 133 (537) –
Cost at 31st December 2004 4,064 7,499 553 753 12,869
Depreciation at 1st January 2004 (1,112) (4,276) (239) – (5,627)
Exchange adjustments 25 63 4 – 92
Provision for the year (122) (569) (94) – (785)
Disposals 29 215 12 – 256
Reclassifications 8 (6) (2) – –
Depreciation at 31st December 2004 (1,172) (4,573) (319) – (6,064)
Impairment at 1st January 2004 (129) (157) (22) (28) (336)
Exchangeadjustments 4 2 – – 6
Impairment loss (17) (9) (2) – (28)
Disposals 6 17 – 1 24
Impairment at 31st December 2004 (136) (147) (24) (27) (334)
Total depreciation and impairment at 31st December 2004 (1,308) (4,720) (343) (27) (6,398)
Net book value at 1st January 2004 2,758 2,773 170 740 6,441
Net book value at 31st December 2004 2,756 2,779 210 726 6,471
The net book value at 31st December 2004 of the Group’s land and buildings comprises freehold properties£2,557million
(at 1st January 2004 – £2,532million), properties with leases of 50 years or more£143million (at 1st January 2004 – £182million) and
properties with leases of less than 50 years£56million (at 1stJanuary 2004 – £44million). Included in plant, equipment and vehicles at
31st December 2004 are leased assets with a cost of£93million (at 1st January 2004 – £3 million), accumulated depreciation of
£25million (at 1st January 2004 – £2 million) and a net book value of£68 million (at 1st January 2004 – £1million).
The impairment loss principally arises from decisions to rationalise facilities and is calculated based on either net realisable value or value
in use, typically usinga discount rate of eight per cent.
Joint Associated Equity
18 Fixed asset investments ventures undertakings investments Total
£m £m £m £m
At 1st January 2004 13 183 98 294
Exchange adjustments – (14) (5) (19)
Additions – 2 84 86
Impairment – – (20) (20)
Transfers – (1) (4) (5)
Disposals – (31) (8) (39)
Retained profit for the year (1) 41 – 40
Goodwill amortisation – (5) – (5)
At 31st December 2004 12 175 145 332
Investments in joint ventures comprise£14million share of gross assets (2003 – £15 million) and£2million share of gross liabilities
(2003 – £2 million).
The principal associated undertaking is Quest DiagnosticsInc., a US clinical laboratory business listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
The investment has a book value at 31st December 2004 of£153million (2003 – £158million) and a market value of£908million
(2003 – £904 million). At 31st December 2004, the Group owned18.6percent of Quest (2003 – 21 per cent). The book value includes
goodwill which is being amortised over 20 years; the amortisation charge for 2004 was£5million(2003 - £6 million). The goodwill at
31st December 2004 amounts to£61million (2003 – £85 million). Goodwill of£80million which relates to the continuing Group interest in
ClinicalLaboratories assets attributed to Quest, remains eliminated against Group reserves. Equity investments comprise listed investments
of£91million (2003 – £7 million) and unlisted investments of£54million (2003 – £91 million). The market value of listed investments at
31st December 2004 was£98 million (2003 – £9 million).110 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
19 Equity investments
Total
£m
At 1st January 2004 164
Exchange adjustments (6)
Additions 19
Impairments (5)
Transfers 5
Disposals (24)
At 31st December 2004 153
Equity investments include listed investments of£127million (2003 – £111 million). Themarket value of listed investments was
£172million (2003 – £184 million).
20 Stocks 2004 2003
£m £m
Raw materials and consumables 629 636
Work in progress 644 474
Finished goods 919 999
2,192 2,109
21 Debtors
2004 2003
£m £m
Amounts due within one year
Trade debtors 3,786 3,715
Other debtors 374 532
Prepaid pension contributions 733 440
Other prepayments and accrued income 282 247
Amounts due after one year
Other debtors 596 512
Prepayments and accrued income 1 10
Deferred taxation (Note12) 1,537 1,441
7,309 6,897
Debtors include trading balances of£7million (2003 – £1 million) due from joint ventures and associated undertakings. Other debtors
due after one year include insurance recovery receivables which have been discounted using a risk-free rate of return.
22 Other creditors 2003
2004 (restated)
£m £m
Amounts due within one year
Trade creditors 707 686
Taxation (Note12) 1,598 1,458
Social security 114 108
Other creditors 351 313
Accruals and deferred income 3,110 3,121
Dividends payable 1,260 1,333
7,140 7,019
Amounts due after one year
Other creditors 178 130
A . ccruals and deferred income 66 102
244 232
Accruals include obligations for wages and salaries of£639million (2003 – £689 million).Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 111
23 Provisions for
Pensions and other Legal
liabilities and charges post-retirement Manufacturing Merger and other Deferred Other
benefits restructuring integration disputes taxation provisions Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1st January 2004 807 99 305 1,007 618 206 3,042
Exchange adjustments (40) (2) (5) (59) – (4) (110)
Charge for the year 145 (25) – 660 142 24 946
Unwinding of discount – – 4 11 – 1 16
Applied (208) (25) (80) (545) – (122) (980)
Reclassifications and other movements 81 (1) – – (50) 85 115
At 31st December 2004 785 46 224 1,074 710 190 3,029
During 2004, the Group made special cash contributions totalling£256million (2003 – £368 million) into the UK and US pension schemes.
The contribution relating to the US pension scheme is included within the amounts applied to the provision above; the contributions
relating to the UK pension scheme have increased the pension prepayment amount shown under debtors inNote 21.
The Group has recognised costsin previous years in respect of plans for manufacturingtheother restructuring initiated in 1998, 1999
and in 2001 following the merger of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham and the acquisition of Block Drug. These plans are largely
completed. Costs recognised as a provision, principally in respect of identified severances at sites where it has been announced that
manufacturing activities will cease, are expected to be incurred mainly in 2005 and 2006. Costs of asset write-downs have been recognised
asimpairmentsof fixed assets.
The Group has recognised costs inprevious yearsin respect of plans for the integration of the Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham
businesses. Implementation of the integration following the merger is substantially complete. Costs recognised as a provision in respect of
identified severances are expected to be incurred in 2005and in respect of the programme to encourage staff to convert Glaxo Wellcome
or SmithKline Beecham share options into GlaxoSmithKline share options when employees exercise these options up to 2010. This latter
provision was discounted by £21million in 2004 (2003 – £28 million)using risk-free rates of return.
GlaxoSmithKline is involved in a number of legal and other disputes, including notification of possible claims. Provisions for legal and other
disputesinclude amounts relating to US anti-trust, product liability, contract terminations, self-insurance, environmental clean-up and
property rental. The company’s Directors, having taken legal advice, have established provisions after taking into account insurance and
other agreements and having regard to the relevant facts and circumstances of each matter andin accordance with accounting
requirements. These provisions were discounted by£11million in 2004 (2003 – £25 million)using risk-free rates of return.GlaxoSmithKline
has undertaken a review of its product liability claims and assessed that a number of products now have a history of claims made and
settlements which makes it possible to use an IBNR (incurred but not reported) actuarial technique to determine a reasonable estimate
of the Group’s exposure for unasserted claims in relation to those products.Apart from the IBNR provision, no provisions have been
made for unasserted claims. The ultimate liability for such matters may vary from the amounts provided and is dependent upon the
outcome of litigation proceedings, investigations and possible settlement negotiations.
It is in the nature of the Group’s business that a number of these matters, including those provided using the IBNR actuarial technique,
may be the subject of negotiation and litigation over severalyears. The largest individual amounts provided are expected to be settled
within three years.
For a discussion of legal issues, refer to Note30, ‘Legal proceedings’.
24 Contingent liabilities
At 31st December 2004 contingent liabilities, comprising guarantees, discounted bills and other items arising in the normal course of
business, amounted to£207million (2003 – £236 million). For a discussion of tax issues, refer to Note12, ‘Taxation’ and of legal issues,
refer to Note30, ‘Legal proceedings’.112 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
25 Net debt
2004 2003
£m £m
Liquid investments 2,818 2,493
Cash at bank 1,161 962
3,979 3,455
Loans and overdrafts due within one year:
7.375 per cent US$ US Medium Term Note 2005 (52) –
8.75 per cent sterling Euro Bond 2005 (500) –
Floating rate US$ European Medium Term Notes – (277)
2.0 per cent CHF Bond 2004 – (106)
Commercial paper (830) (836)
Bank loans and overdrafts (163) (230)
Other loans (2) (2)
Obligations under finance leases (35) (1)
(1,582) (1,452)
Loans due after one year:
7.375 per cent US$ Medium Term Note 2005 – (56)
8.75 per cent sterling Euro Bond 2005 – (499)
6.125 per cent US$ Notes 2006 (260) (279)
2.375 per cent US$ US Medium Term Note 2007 (260) –
3.375 per cent euro European Medium Term Note 2008 (705) (699)
4.875 per cent sterling European Medium Term Note 2008 (498) (498)
3.25 per cent euro European Medium Term Note 2009 (348) (357)
4.375 per cent US$ US Medium Term Note 2014 (772) –
5.25 per cent sterling European Medium Term Note 2033 (975) (974)
5.375 per cent US$ US Medium Term Note 2034 (258) –
Loan Stock (12) (13)
Bank loans (4) (4)
Other loansand private financing (231) (260)
Obligations under finance leases (58) (12)
(4,381) (3,651)
Net debt (1,984) (1,648)
At the balance sheet date the Group’s liquid investments had an aggregate market value of£2,820million (2003 – £2,509million).Liquid
investments include redeemable preference shares, which are fully collateralised with highly rated bonds, of£1 billion(2003 – £1 billion).
Loans and overdrafts due within one year
Commercial paper comprises a US$10 billion programme, of which$1,593 million (£830million)was in issue at 31st December 2004
(2003– $1,497 million (£836 million)), backed up by committed facilities of 364 days duration of$900 million (£469million)
(2003 – $1,404 million (£784million))renewable annually, and liquid investmentsas shown in the table above.
The weighted average interest rate on commercial paper borrowings at 31st December 2004 was2.35per cent (2003 – 1.1 per cent).
The weighted average interest rate on bank loans and overdrafts due within one year at 31st December 2004 was3.0per cent.
Loans due after one year
In 2004,threebonds were issued under theUSMedium Term Note programme; a US$500 million, 2.375 per cent coupon bond,
aUS$1.5billion,4.375per cent coupon bondand aUS$500 million,5.375per cent coupon bond.
Loans due after one year are repayable over various periods as follows:
2004 2003
£m £m
Between one and two years 289 562
Between two and three years 279 281
Between three and four years 1,210 2
Between four and five years 352 1,199
After five years 2,251 1,607
4,381 3,651
The loans repayable after five years carry interest at effective rates between4.4per cent and5.4per cent. The repayment dates range
from2010 to 2034.Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 113
25 Net debt continued
Secured loans
Loans amounting to£11million (2003 – £13 million) are secured by charges on fixed and current assets.
2004 2003
Finance lease obligations £m £m
Rental payments due within one year 36 1
Rental payments due between one and two years 28 2
Rental payments due between two and three years 17 1
Rental payments due between three and four years 5 1
Rental payments due between four and five years 3 2
Rental payments due after five years 7 6
Total futurerental payments 96 13
Future finance charges (3) –
Total finance lease obligations 93 13
Financial instruments
Further information is given in Note34.
26 Commitments
2004 2003
Capital commitments £m £m
Contracted for but not provided in the financial statements:
Intangible fixed assets 1,256 1,412
Tangible fixed assets 235 171
1,491 1,583
A number of commitments were made in 2004 under licensing and other agreements, principally with Theravance Inc.,Exelixis Inc.,
Tanabe Seiyaku Co. Ltd.,and Human Genome Sciences, Inc.
The Group also has other commitments of£85million (2003 – £144 million) relating to revenue payments to be made under licences
and other alliances, principally to Exelixis Inc.
2004 2003
Commitments under operating leases to pay rentals for the next year £m £m
Operating leases on land and buildings which expire:
In one year or less 4 6
Between one and five years 16 19
After five years 30 35
50 60
Operating leases on plant, equipment and vehicles which expire:
In one year or less 10 8
Between one and five years 23 50
After five years – 2
33 60
Commitments under operating leases to pay rentals in future years
2005 83 94
2006 73 78
2007 54 54
2008 42 43
2009 36 36
2010 and thereafter 119 122
407 427114 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
Share
27 Share capital and share premium account Ordinary Shares of 25p each p are ccm oi uu nm t
Number £m £m
Share capital authorised
At 31st December 2002 10,000,000,000 2,500
At 31st December 2003 10,000,000,000 2,500
At 31st December 2004 10,000,000,000 2,500
Share capital issued and fully paid
At 1st January 2002 6,172,965,989 1,543 170
Share capital issued under share option schemes 7,049,394 2 54
Share capital purchased and cancelled (155,749,038) (39) –
At 31st December 2002 6,024,266,345 1,506 224
Share capital issued under share option schemes 6,041,283 1 40
Share capital purchased and cancelled (80,844,000) (20) –
At 31st December 2003 5,949,463,628 1,487 264
Share capital issued under share option schemes 6,300,203 2 40
Share capital purchased and cancelled (18,075,000) (5) –
At 31st December 2004 5,937,688,831 1,484 304
31st December 31st December 31st December
2004 2003 2002
Number (‘000) of shares issuable under outstanding options(Note 36) 276,954 259,990 217,953
Number (‘000) of unissued shares not under option 3,785,358 3,790,546 3,757,781
At 31st December 2004, of the issued share capital, 174,527,097shares were held in the ESOP Trust, 69,948,000 shares were held in
Treasury and 5,693,213,734shares were in free issue.
In October 2002, GlaxoSmithKline commenced a new £4 billion share buy-back programme. This followedthe completion of the £4 billion
buy-back programme announced in 2001. A total of £2.2 billion has been spent on the new share buy-back programme, of which
£1billion was spent in 2004.The exact amount and timing of future purchases, and whether some repurchased shares will be held
as Treasury sharesor becancelled, will be determined by the company and is dependent on market conditions and other factors. No
shares were purchased in the period 1st January 2005 to 10th February 2005.In the period11th February2005 to 25th February 2005
a further5.55million shares have been purchasedat a cost of£70million.All purchases were through the publicly announced
buy-back programme.
The table below sets out the monthly purchases under the current share buy-back programme:
Average share price excluding
Number of shares commisson and stamp duty
Month (000) £
January 2004 Nil –
February 2004 4,950 11.09
March 2004 20,545 10.81
April 2004 1,010 11.85
May 2004 7,832 11.73
June 2004 10,156 11.43
July 2004 1,800 11.06
August 2004 11,850 10.88
September 2004 8,485 11.72
October 2004 Nil –
November 2004 10,305 11.60
December 2004 11,090 11.64
Total 88,023 11.29
For details of substantial shareholdings refer to ‘Substantial shareholdings’ on page177.
28 Non-equity minority interests
At 1st January 2004SmithKline Beecham Holdings Corporation (SBH Corp), a subsidiary incorporated in Delaware, USA, had in issue
$500 million of Flexible Auction Market Preferred Stock (Flex AMPS), comprising 5,000 shares of $100,000 each, issued in six series. SBH
Corp also had in issue $400 million of Auction Rate Preference Stock (ARPS), comprising 4,000 shares of $100,000 each issued in five
series. The ARPS and the Flex AMPS together constituted the preference shares, which represented the non-equity minority interests.
These were redeemed in March and April 2004.Notes to the financial statements GlaxoSmithKline 115
Other Profit and
29 Reserves reserves loss account Total
(restated) (restated) (restated)
£m £m £m
At 31st December 2001 as previously reported 1,866 3,811 5,677
Prior year adjustment – implementation of UITF 17 (revised) and UITF 38 (2,970) 63 (2,907)
At 31st December 2001as restated (1,104) 3,874 2,770
Exchange movements – (82) (82)
UKtax on exchange movements – (65) (65)
Ordinary shares purchased and cancelled 39 (2,220) (2,181)
Investment in ESOPshares 144 (67) 77
Profit attributable to shareholders – 3,930 3,930
Dividends – (2,346) (2,346)
Unrealised profit on disposal of intellectual property – 7 7
At 31st December 2002 (921) 3,031 2,110
Exchange movements – 113 113
Tax on exchange movements and unrealised profits – (92) (92)
Ordinary shares purchased and cancelled 20 (980) (960)
Investment in ESOPshares 97 (64) 33
Profit attributable to shareholders – 4,478 4,478
Dividends – (2,374) (2,374)
Unrealised profit on disposal of intellectual property – 7 7
Revaluation of goodwill due to exchange _ (7) (7)
At 31st December 2003 (804) 4,112 3,308
Goodwill written back – 20 20
Exchange movements – (54) (54)
Tax on exchange movements and unrealised profits – (73) (73)
Ordinary shares purchased and cancelled 5 (201) (196)
Ordinary shares purchased and held as Treasury shares – (799) (799)
Investment in ESOPshares 155 (129) 26
Profit attributable to shareholders – 4,302 4,302
Dividends – (2,402) (2,402)
Unrealised loss on disposal of intellectual property – (1) (1)
Revaluation of goodwill due to exchange – 6 6
At 31st December 2004 (644) 4,781 4,137
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before 1st January 1998 which has been written off against profit and loss account reservesamounts to
£6,180million, including goodwill of £4,840 million previously held as a goodwill reserve which was offset againstprofit and loss account
reservesin2000. The goodwill written back in 2004 relates to the disposal of part of the Group’s holding in Quest DiagnosticsInc. and
the disposal of the Group’s holding in GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals (Chongqing) Limited. Goodwill denominated in local currencies
which is subject to revaluation amounted to £294million at 31st December 2004.Goodwill on acquisitions after 1st January 1998 has
been capitalised, in accordance with the accounting policy set out in Note 2.
Exchange movements taken to reserves in 2004 include losses of £86million (2003 – losses £27million, 2002 – losses £1,179million) on
foreign currency loans less deposits, gains of £38million (2003 – gains £133 million, 2002 – gains £1,097 million) on the retranslation of
net assets and £6million (2003 – £7 million, 2002 – £nil) on goodwill eliminated against reserves.The tax on exchange movements and
unrealised profits in2004of £73million (2003 – £92million, 2002 – £65million) relates to the taxable element of the foreign currency
loans less deposits and unrealised profits taken to reserves.
Exchange adjustments debited to reserves cumulatively amount to £1,291million (2003 – £1,243million, 2002 – £1,356million).
Other reserves include the merger reserve created on the merger of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham amounting to £1,561million
at 31st December 2004 (2003 – £1,561 million; 2002 – £1,561 million). Other reserves also include the capital redemption reserve created
as a result of the share buy-back programme amounting to £81million at 31st December 2004 (2003 – £76 million, 2002 – £56 million).
Following the implementation of UITF 38, investments in own shares held by the ESOPTrusts amounting to £2,574million at
31st December 2004 (2003 – £2,729 million, 2002 – £2,826 million) are now shown as a deduction from other reserves.
Total reserves amounted to £4,137million at 31st December 2004 (2003 – £3,308million, 2002 – £2,110million), of which £8,303million
(2003 – £8,981 million; 2002 – £10,879 million) relates to the company and £97million (2003 – £86 million, 2002 – £76million) relates
to joint ventures and associated undertakings.
The profit of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year was £2,719million (2003 –£1,436 million, 2002–£10,598 million), which after dividends
of £2,402million (2003 – £2,374 million, 2002 – £2,352 million), gave a retainedprofitof £317million (2003 – loss £938 million,
2002 – profit£8,246 million). After the cost of shares purchased and cancelled of £201million (2003 – £980 million, 2002 – £2,220
million), shares purchased and held as Treasury shares of £799million(2003 – £nil, 2002 – £nil) and an unrealised profit on capital
reduction by subsidiary of £nil(2003 – £nil, 2002 – £4,096 million), the profit and loss account reserve at 31st December 2004 stood
at £8,222million (2003 – £8,905 million, 2002 – £10,823 million), of which £4,096million is unrealised (2003 – £4,096 million,
2002 – £4,096 million).116 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
30 Legal proceedings In July 1998,GlaxoSmithKline filed an action against Apotex in
the US District Court for the Northern District of Illinois for
The Group is involved in various legal and administrative
infringement of the Group’s patent for paroxetine hydrochloride
proceedings, principally product liability, intellectual property, tax,
hemihydrate. Apotex had filed an Abbreviated New Drug
anti-trust and governmental investigations and related private
Application (ANDA) with the US Food and Drug Administration
litigation. The Group makes provision for these proceedings on a
(FDA)seeking approval to introduce a generic form of Paxil.
regular basis as summarised in Notes2and23. The Group may
Following a trial in February 2003 the judge ruled
make additional significant provisions for such legal proceedings,
GlaxoSmithKline’s patent valid but not infringed by Apotex’s
as required in the event of further developments in these matters,
product. On the Group’s appeal of the ruling of non-infringement,
consistent with generally accepted accounting principles. Litigation,
the US Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit (CAFC), which
particularly in the USA, is inherently unpredictable and excessive
hears all appeals from US District Courts onpatentmatters, ruled
awards that may not be justified by the evidencemay occur. The
that the Group’s patent was infringed but invalid based upon
Group could in the future incur judgments or enter into
‘public use’ in clinical trials prior to the filing date
settlements of claims that could result in payments that exceed
in the USA. The Group filed a petition to the CAFC for rehearing
its current provisions by an amount that would have a material
of its appeal by the full court but as of the date of this report
adverse effect on the Group’s financial condition and results
no decision on that petition has yet been announced.
of operations.
In June 1999,GlaxoSmithKline filed an action against Geneva
Intellectual property claims include challenges to the validity of the
Pharmaceuticals, a subsidiary of Novartis Pharmaceuticals, in the
Group’s patents on various products or processesandassertions of
US District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania for
non-infringement of those patents. A loss in any of these cases
infringement of the Group’s patents for paroxetine hydrochloride
could result in loss of patent protection for the product at issue.
following notice of Geneva’s ANDA filing. That case has been
The consequence of any such loss could be a significant decrease
consolidated with similar infringement actions against other
in sales of that product and could materially affect future results
generic companies that subsequently filed ANDAs. Additional
of operations for the Group.
infringement actions have been brought based on patents issued
Legal expenses incurred, relating to the defence of the Group’s subsequent to the original filing against Apotex in the Northern
intellectual property, and litigation costs and provisions related to District of Illinois. The Group also filed an action against Apotex
product liability claims on existing products, are charged to selling, relating to those new patents in the Eastern District of
general and administration costs. Litigation costs and provisions Pennsylvania. In December 2002 the judge granted in part and
relating to legal claims on withdrawn products, anti-trust and denied in part summary judgement motions filed by Apotex with
pricing matters are charged to other operating income/expense. the result that issues of validity and infringement of three of the
Provisions are made, after taking appropriate legal advice, when four new patents remain for trial. The Group has petitioned the
a reasonable estimate can be made of the likely outcome of the District Court to permit an interim appeal to the CAFCof summary
dispute. In 2004 the Group established an actuarially determined rulings that one of the four new patents and certain claims of
provision for product liability claims incurred but not yet reported the other three are invalid. In June 2003 the Group requested the
as described in Note23. At 31st December 2004 the Group’s FDAto remove three patents related to Paxilfrom the register of
aggregate provision for legal and other disputes (not including tax pharmaceutical patents maintained by the FDA (the Orange Book).
matters described under ‘Taxation’ in Note12) was justover The delisting did not affect the validity of these patents or the
£1billion. The ultimate liability for legal claims may vary from the related patent litigation. Following FDA approval of its ANDA,
amounts provided and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation Apotex subsequently launched a generic version of Paxil
proceedings, investigations and possible settlement negotiations. in September 2003.
The most significant of those matters are described below. The Group continues to pursue patent infringement claims in
litigation in the Eastern District of Pennsylvania against Apotex,
Intellectual property Geneva, Alphapharm, Andrx, Teva Pharmaceuticals and Zenith,
USA and bulk suppliers BASF and Sumika Fine Chemicals. Apotex,
Alphapharm, BASF and Sumika have filed counterclaims in these
Paxil
actions alleging that the Group has violated anti-trust or unfair
In the USA a number of distributors of generic drugs filed
competition laws. In February 2003 the CAFC heard Apotex’s
applications with the FDA to market generic versions of
appeal from a decision by the US District Court for the District
Paxil/Seroxat(paroxetine hydrochloride) prior to the expiration
of Columbia denying Apotex’s request that the FDA be required
in 2006 of the Group’s patent on paroxetine hydrochloride
to delist certain of the Group’s patents for Paxilfrom the Orange
hemihydrate. Apotex launched its generic version ofPaxilin
Book. In October 2003 the CAFC affirmed the district court
September 2003. Other distributors sought to bring to market
decision and dismissed the case.Certain but not all of the claims
anhydrate or other versions of paroxetine hydrochloride and in
and counterclaims with respect to Geneva, Alphapharm, BASF
one case paroxetine mesylate. In response the Group filed actions
and Sumika have now been settled.
against all those distributors for infringement of various of the
Group’s patents on the basis that the generic anhydrate and In March 2000,GlaxoSmithKline filed an action against Pentech
other versions infringe because they contain and/or convert to Pharmaceuticals in the US District Court for the Northern District
the hemihydrate form and/or infringe other Group patents. of Illinois for infringement of the Group’s patents for paroxetine
hydrochloride. Pentech filed an ANDA for a capsule version of
Paxil, asserting that its compound and presentation do not
infringe the Group’s patents or that the patents are invalid.Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 117
30 Legal proceedings continued In June 2003,the Group commenced an action in the US District
Court for the District of New Jersey against the Faulding
In April 2003,the Group reached a settlement with Pentech and
Pharmaceutical Company alleging infringement of the two method
Par Pharmaceuticals to which Pentech had granted rights under
of use patents for ondansetron. Faulding did not challenge the
Pentech’s ANDA for paroxetine hydrochloride capsules.
compound patent. That case, as of the date of this report, has
The settlement allowed Par to distribute in Puerto Rico been stayed pending decisions in the Teva, Reddy and Kali cases.
substitutable generic paroxetine hydrochloride immediate release
In August 2004,the Group commenced an action in the US
tablets supplied and licensed from the Group for a royalty payable
District Court for the District of New Jersey against Pliva alleging
to the Group. Par became entitled to distribute the same product
infringement of the Group’s patent for a reduced crystal size of
in the US market once Apotex’s generic version of Paxilbecame
ondansetron, which expires in March 2012 taking into account
available there in September 2003. In the settlement Par and
the extension for paediatric exclusivity. Pliva did not challenge the
Pentech acknowledge that the GlaxoSmithKline patent covering
compound patent or the emesis use patents. The case is in its
the hemihydrate form of paroxetine hydrochloride is valid and
preliminary stages.
enforceable and would be infringed by Pentech’s proposed capsule
product. The Bureau of Competition of the US Federal Trade In January 2005,the Group commenced two additional actions,
Commission reviewed the settlement. The review was voluntary both in the US District Court for the District of New Jersey, for
and was conducted at the request of the Group, Par and Pentech. the same reduced crystal size patent against Kali and Apotex. In
Pentech’s former supplier Asahi Glass Co. filed claims alleging that contrast to its previous ANDA for orally disintegrating tablets,
the settlement violated the anti-trust laws. Those claims have been Kali did not challenge the emesis use patents in its recent ANDA
dismissed by the court. Similar claims brought by Apotex and for oral tablets nor did it challenge the compound patent. Apotex
Sumika are pending in the US District Court for the Eastern did not challenge either compound or emesis use patents in
District of Pennsylvania. connection with their ANDA.
Zofran Lamictal
In August 2001 the Group commenced an action in the US District In August 2002,the Group commenced an action in the US District
Court for the District of New Jersey against Reddy-Cheminor and Court for the District of New Jersey against Teva Pharmaceuticals
DrReddy’s Laboratories. Dr Reddy had certified invalidity of three USA, Inc., alleging infringement of the Group’s compound patent
patents for ondansetron, the active ingredient in Zofrantablets, for lamotrigine, the active ingredient in Lamictaloral tablets. That
including the compound patent that expires in July 2005 and two patent affords protection through January 2009 after giving effect
method of use patents, the later of which expires in December to an expected grant of paediatric exclusivity by FDA. The
2006, in both instances taking into account the extension for defendant hadfiled an ANDA with the FDA with a certification of
paediatric exclusivity. In July 2003 the Group filed an action against invalidity of the Group’s patent. The Hatch-Waxman stay on the
DrReddy’s Laboratories in the same district court for infringement FDA approval of that ANDA has expired. The trial in the Teva case
of the Group’s patents related to the orally disintegrating tablet concluded in January 2005.Following the trial the parties reached
presentation of Zofran. In October 2003 the Group filed an action a settlement agreement subject to government review, pursuant
against West-ward Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in the same district court to which the Group has granted Teva an exclusive royalty-bearing
for infringement of the Group’s patents related to an injectable licence to distribute in the USAa generic version of lamotrigine
presentation of Zofran. Both the Dr Reddy disintegrating tablet chewable tablets on a date not later than June 2005 and the
case and the West-ward case were consolidated with the earlier exclusive right to manufacture and sell Teva’s own generic version
Dr Reddy case. Prior to trial both Reddy-Cheminor and West-ward of lamotrigine tablets in the USA with an expected launch date in
withdrew their challenges to the compound patent. The trial 2008.
over infringement of the Group’s method of use and process
Imitrex
patents was completed in June 2004 but as of the date of this
In December 2003,the Group commenced an action in the US
report closing arguments have not been held and no decision
District Court for the Southern District of New York against
has been announced.
Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, alleging infringement of one of two
In March 2002,the Group filed a similar action against Teva primary compound patents for sumatriptan, the active ingredient
Pharmaceuticals USA Inc. in the US District Court for the District of in Imitrex. Thepatent at issue affords protection through February
Delaware alleging infringement of the two method of use patents 2009 after giving effect to a grant of paediatric exclusivity by the
for ondansetron. Teva had certified invalidity or non-infringement FDA. The defendant has filed an ANDA with the FDA with a
of the two method of use patents. Teva did not challenge the certification of invalidity of that compound patent but did not
compound patent. The trial judge ruled in the Group’s favour, certify invalidity or non-infringement of the second compound
upholding the validity of the method of use patents. Teva appealed patent that expires inJune 2007 after giving effect to paediatric
that decision to the CAFC and oral argument is expected in the exclusivity. The case is in its early stages. Six other generic
thirdquarter of 2005. In September 2003, November 2003 and companies have filed ANDAs for Imitrexbut of those only Cobalt
January 2004 the Group filed actions against Teva in the same Pharmaceuticals has certified invalidity of the same compound
court for infringement of the Group’s patents related to the patentat issue in the Dr. Reddy’s case. The Group has commenced
injectable and orally disintegrating tablet presentations of Zofran. an infringement action against Cobalt which has recently been
These cases were consolidated into the case now on appeal. transferred to the US District Court for the Southern District
of New York.In February 2005,the Group commenced an action
An earlier ondansetron case, involving orally disintegrating Zofran
in the USDistrict Court for the District of Delaware against
tablets, was commenced by the Group in January 2003 against
Spectrum Pharmaceuticals, alleging infringement of thesame
Kali Laboratories in the US District Court for the District of New
compound patentatissue in the Dr. Reddy’s case. Spectrum filed
Jersey. Both Kali and the Group have subsequently filed motions
itscertification of invalidity or non-infringement of that patent as
for summary judgement.
part of an ANDA filing for approval for sumatriptan injection.
The case is in its early stages.118 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
30 Legal proceedings continued Advair
In September 2004,the Group applied to the US Patent and
Valtrex
Trademark Office (USPTO) for re-issue of its combination patent
In May 2003,the Group commenced an action in the US District
for Advair, an inhaled combination of salmeterol and fluticasone
Court for the District of New Jersey against Ranbaxy Laboratories,
propionate, which expires in September 2010. This followed
alleging infringement of the Group’s compound patent for
an internal review which concluded that the language in the
valaciclovir, the active ingredient in Valtrex. That patent expires
patent may not accurately describe all of the circumstances of
in 2009. The defendant has filed an ANDA with the FDA with a
the invention and may not claim the invention as precisely as it
certification of invalidity of the Group’s compound patent and
could. The objective of seeking re-issuance is to strengthen the
non-infringement of two other patents expiring in 2016 that are
protection afforded by the patent. It is expected that the
listed in the Orange Book. FDA approval of that ANDA is stayed
administrative process with the USPTO will take one to two years.
until the earlier of October 2005 or resolution of the patent
While the application for re-issue is pending, the patent remains
infringement litigation. Discovery is underway in the case.
in forceand is listed in the Orange Book.
Avandia and Avandamet
The Group holds other patents relating to Advairwhich are not
In August 2003,the Group filed an action in the US District Court
affected by the re-issue application, including the compound
for the District of New Jersey against Teva Pharmaceuticals USA Inc.
patent related to the active ingredient salmeterol which affords
for infringement of the Group’s patent relating to the maleate salt
protection through August 2008 (after giving effect to an expected
form of rosiglitazone, the active ingredient in Avandia, which
grant of paediatric exclusivity by the FDA), various patents relating
expires in 2015. In September 2003 the Group filed a comparable
to the Diskusdevice which expire over a period from 2011 to 2016
action in the same court against Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, alleging
and patents relating to the HFA formulation and related technology
infringement of the same patent for the maleate salt form. Both
which expire over a period from 2015 to 2021.
Dr Reddy’s Laboratories and Teva filed ANDAs with the FDA with
certifications of invalidity of the Group’s maleate salt patent. FDA Levitra
approval of those ANDAs is stayed until the earlier of November In October 2002,Pfizer Inc. filed an action against Bayer AG and
2006 or resolution of the respective patent infringement actions. GlaxoSmithKline in the US District Court for the District of
Delaware, alleging that the manufacture and sale of Levitra
Teva subsequently filed an additional certification challenging the
(vardenafil) would infringe a patent newly issued to Pfizer and
validity of the Group’s basic compound patent for rosiglitazone,
asking that Bayer and GlaxoSmithKline be permanently enjoined.
and in January 2004 the Group commenced an action against
In September 2003 the US Patent and Trademark Office initiated
Teva in the same court for infringement of that patent. The basic
a re-examination of the Pfizer patent based on questions of
compound patent currently expires in 2008, although expiry is
patentability in light of prior art. The Pfizer action, including an
expected to be extended to 2012after the US Patent and
additional suit filed in the same court following the launch of
Trademark Office has granted patent term restoration.
Levitrain the USA, was predicated on the validity of that patent
In January 2005,the Group filed an action in the US District Court and was stayed pending the outcome of the re-examination. In
for the District ofNew Jersey against Teva for infringement of the December 2004the parties entered into an agreement to settle
same two patents.Teva had filed an ANDA with the FDA for a patent infringement and validity proceedings on a worldwide
generic version of Avandametwith certifications of invalidity and basis, including the US action.
non-infringementof those patents. FDA approval of that ANDA is
Cervarix
stayed until the earlier of June 2007 or resolution of the patent
In February 2005, Merck & Co. and the Group announced a cross
infringementaction but since Avandametis protected by the same
licence and settlement agreement for certain patent rights related
patents as Avandia, should the Avandiapatents at issue be found
to human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccine.The Group will receive
invalid during the litigation with Teva or Dr. Reddy’s, that ruling
an upfront payment androyaltiesfrom Merck based upon sales
wouldbe dipositive for Avandametas well.
of an HPV vaccine upon development and launch. The agreement
Wellbutrin XL resolves competing intellectual property claims related to the
In December 2004,Biovail commenced actions in the US District Merck and GlaxoSmithKline HPV vaccines, respectively.
Court for the Central District of California against Anchen
Pharmaceuticals and inthe US District Court for the Southern UK and Europe
District of Florida against Abrika Pharmaceuticals, in each case
Seroxat
alleging infringement of Biovail formulation patents for Wellbutrin
Following settlement in August 2004 of most of the Group’s
XL. Those patents expire in 2018. Each of Anchen and Abrika
patent litigation with Synthon BV, Synthon is free to market its
had filed an ANDA with the FDA with a certification of invalidity
paroxetine mesylate product in many markets globally where it
or non-infringement of the Biovail patents. FDA approval of each
has obtained marketing authorisations. Paroxetine mesylate is a
of those ANDAs is stayed until the earlier of May 2007 or
different salt form of paroxetine than that used in the marketed
resolution of the applicable patent infringement action. The
form of Seroxat/Paxil.In certain markets patent litigation with
Group is a party to the action as a licensee under those patents
Synthon is ongoing and Synthon is asserting counterclaims for
and owner of the New Drug Application for Wellbutrin XL.Both
unfair competition against the Group.
cases are in their early stages.Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 119
30 Legal proceedings continued Phenylpropanolamine
Following a report from the Yale Haemorrhagic Stroke Project
Another generic version of Seroxat/Paxil’sactive ingredient is
that found a suggestion of an association between first use of
paroxetine hydrochloride anhydrate. Generic products containing
phenylpropanolamine (‘PPA’) decongestant and haemorrhagic
the anhydrate are now on the market in most European countries.
stroke, the Group and most other manufacturers have voluntarily
Whilst some of these products are the subject of continuing
withdrawnconsumer healthcare products in which PPA was an
litigation, most actions have now been settled and it is expected
active ingredient. Since the PPA product withdrawal the Group
that more will be settled in the future. In the UK, litigation of
has been named as a defendant in numerous personal injury and
several years standing between the Group and Apotex culminated
class action lawsuits filed in state and federal courts alleging
in an Appeal Court decision that the Group’s anhydrate process
personal injury or increased risk of injury from use of products
patent was validbutnot infringed. That decision is not subject to
containing PPA and unfair and deceptive business practices.
further appeal. As a result of the litigation, Apotex was enjoined
Plaintiffs seek remedies including compensatory and punitive
from launching its product for about one year but it is now on
damages and refunds. The federal cases have been consolidated
the market. A damages enquiry relating to theinjunction will
in a multidistrict litigation proceeding in the US District Court for
take place in due course.
the District of Washington. The judge responsible for those
proceedings has denied class certification and struck all class
Product liability
allegations in the federal personal injury and consumer refund
Paxil
class actions. A limited number of cases in which the Group or
The Group has received lawsuits and claims filed on behalf
other manufacturers are defendants are now reaching trial in
of patients alleging that they have suffered symptoms on
state courts. Class certification has been denied in California
discontinuing treatment with Paxil(paroxetine). Separately, the
state court and a Pennsylvania state court putative class action
Group has received lawsuits and claims that patients who had
has been dismissed, leaving no putative class actions pending
commenced Paxiltreatment committed or attempted to commit
against the Group in this litigation.
suicide and/or acts of violence.There are also private consumer
lawsuits alleging that the Group concealed and misrepresented Baycol
data from paediatric clinical trials of Paxil. In August 2001,Bayer AG withdrew Baycol(cerivastatin sodium)
worldwide in light of reports of adverse events, including deaths,
The Group has received lawsuits filed in state and federal courts
involving rhabdomyolosis. GlaxoSmithKline had participated in
in the USA and Canada on behalf of thousands of plaintiffs,
the marketing of Baycolin the USA pursuant to a co-promotion
including 14 purported class actions, alleging that paroxetine
agreement with Bayer which was the licenceholder and
(the active ingredient in Paxil) is addictive and causes dependency
manufacturer of the product.
and withdrawal reactions. Plaintiffs seek remedies including
compensatory, punitive and statutory damages and the cost of Following the withdrawal, Bayer and GlaxoSmithKline have been
a fund for medical monitoring. In 2003 a federal judge in the US named as defendants in thousands of lawsuits filed in state and
District Court for the Central District of California denied class federal courts in the USA on behalf of both individuals and
action certifications for a nationwide class and a California putative classes of former Baycolusers. A number of the suits
statewide class as to cases filed in federal court in that district. allege that the plaintiffs have suffered personal injuries, including
Subsequently, on petition from plaintiffs’ counsel all federal court rhabdomyolosis, from the use of Baycol. Others claim that persons
cases have been transferred to that District Court for consolidation who took Baycol, although not injured, may be at risk of future
in Multidistrict Litigation (MDL). The first five cases are scheduled injury or may have suffered economic damages from purchasing
to start trial in the MDL court in May 2005. There has been no and using Baycol. Plaintiffs seek remedies including compensatory,
determination as to whether any of the other lawsuits pending punitive and statutory damages and creation of funds for medical
in the MDL or in state courts will be permitted to proceed as monitoring. GlaxoSmithKline and Bayer Corporation, the principal
class actions. US subsidiary of Bayer AG, have signed an allocation agreement
under which Bayer Corporation has agreed to pay 95 per cent
The Group has received a number of claims and lawsuits alleging
of all settlements and compensatory damages judgements with
that treatment with Paxilhas caused homicidal or suicidal
each party retaining responsibility for its own attorneys’ fees and
behaviour exhibited by users of the product. None of these are
any punitive damages. The federal cases have been consolidated
or purport to be class actions. In October 2004 the FDA
in a multidistrict litigation proceeding in the US District Court for
announced that it would require a black box warning about
the District of Minnesota. Numerous cases are scheduled for trial
suicidality and other strengthened warnings for selective serotonin
in state and federal courts during 2005. To date, a statewide
reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) products, including Paxil, as a class.
medical monitoring class action against Bayer and GlaxoSmithKline
Avandia has been certified in Pennsylvania, and another class action, in
The Group has received lawsuits and claims filed in state and which GlaxoSmithKline was not named as a defendant, has been
federal courts in the USA on behalf of numerous patients alleging certified in Oklahoma.A substantial number of claims for death
that rosiglitazone (the active ingredient in Avandia) has caused or serious injury have been settled.
congestive heart failure or liver damage. None of the cases
purports to be a class action. Most of the cases are in their early
stages although certain state court trials are scheduled to take
place in 2005.120 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
30 Legal proceedings continued In particular the government has inquired about alleged promotion
of these drugs for off-label uses as well as Groupsponsored
Fen-Phen
continuing medical education programmes, other speaker events,
In 1997,the FDA became aware of reports of cardiac valvular
special issue boards, advisory boards, speaker training programmes,
problems in individuals for whom fenfluramine or dexfenfluramine
clinical studies, and related grants, fees, travel and entertainment.
alone or in combination with phentermine was prescribed as part
Although the original subpoena issued from the US Attorney’s
of a regimen of weight reduction and requested the voluntary
office in Colorado, the scope of the inquiry is nationwide. The
withdrawal of fenfluramine and dexfenfluramine from the market.
Group is co-operating with the investigation which is in its early
The reports of cardiac valvular problems and the subsequent
stages. The Group had earlier responded to an October 2002 letter
withdrawal of those products from the market spawned numerous
from the FDA’s Division of Drug Marketing, Advertising and
product liability lawsuits filed against the manufacturers and
Communication requesting information on the Group’s alleged
distributors of fenfluramine, dexfenfluramine and phentermine.
promotion of Wellbutrin SR for off-label use.
As one of a number of manufacturers of phentermine, the Group
is a defendant in thousands of lawsuits in various state and federal Average wholesale price
district courts in the USA. Most of the lawsuits seek relief including GlaxoSmithKline has responded to subpoenas from the Office
some combination of compensatory and punitive damages, of the Inspector General of the US Department of Health and
medical monitoring and refunds for purchases of drugs. In 1997 Human Services, the US Department of Justice and the states of
the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation issued an order Texas and California in connection with allegations that
consolidating and transferring all federal actions to the District pharmaceutical companies, including GlaxoSmithKline, have
Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. That court approved violated federal fraud and abuse laws such as the Federal False
a global settlement proposed by defendant Wyeth, which sold Claims Act (and, with respect to Texas and California, comparable
fenfluramine and dexfenfluramine. The settlement, subsequently state laws) as a result of the way ‘average wholesale price’ (AWP)
confirmed by the Third Circuit Court of Appeals, does not include was determined and reported for certain drugs and the way the
any of the phentermine defendants, including the Group. Medicare and Medicaid programmes reimburse for those drugs.
Individual plaintiffs may elect to opt out of the class settlement
Subsequently, several states through their respective attorneys
and pursue their claims individually and tens of thousands of
general and several counties in New York state filed civil lawsuits
plaintiffs have elected to do so. Wyeth continues to settle
in state and federal court against GlaxoSmithKline and several
individual state court cases before trial and the Group continues
other drug companies. The actions claim,on behalf of the states
to be dismissed from lawsuits as they are settled by Wyeth.
as payers and on behalf of in-state patients as consumers,
Thimerosal damages and restitution due to AWPbased price reporting for an
GlaxoSmithKline, along with a number of other pharmaceutical undefined set of pharmaceutical products covered by the states’
companies, has been named as a defendant in numerous individual Medicaid programmes. In addition, private payer class action
personal injury lawsuits in state and federal district courts in lawsuits have been filed against GlaxoSmithKline in several
the USA alleging that thimerosal, a preservative used in the federal district and state courts. All the federal cases have been
manufacture of vaccines, causes neurodevelopmental disorders consolidated in a multidistrict litigation proceeding in the US
and other injuries, including autism. Three of the cases are District Court for the District of Massachusetts. The Group is
purported class actions; there has been no determination as to oneof five companies designated for ‘fast track’ discovery in
whether any of those cases will be permitted to proceed as a that proceeding. A hearing on the private-payer plaintiffs’ motion
class action. A number of purported class actions in other for class certification took place in February 2005but the judge
jurisdictions have been withdrawn or dismissed. Plaintiffs seek has not yet ruled on that motion. All of the civil suits filed in state
remedies including compensatory, punitive and statutory court by state attorneys general and a private payer class action
damages and the cost of a fund for medical monitoring and case remanded to state court are in their early stages.
research. Although many of the lawsuits are in their early stages,
Nominal pricing
a number of cases are scheduled for trial in 2005.
The Group has been advised by the US Department of Justice
Lotronex that they are investigating certain of the Group’s nominal pricing
Following the voluntary withdrawal of Lotronexin the USA in arrangements to determine whether those arrangements qualify
November 2000 a number of lawsuits have been filed against under the nominal price exception to best price reporting
the Group in state and federal district courts, including individual requirements under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Programme or
personal injury actions and purported class actions asserting violate civil statutes or laws. The Group is cooperating in that
product liability and consumer fraud claims. Plaintiffs seek remedies investigation which is being conducted by the same government
including compensatory, punitive and statutory damages. The class attorneys involved in the AWP investigation and has provided
previously certified in West Virginia has been decertified and the documents and information regarding nominal pricing
action has been dismissed.A large number of claims brought arrangements for a number of the Group’s products.
following the withdrawal have now been settled.
Paxil/Seroxat
Following announcement of the New York State Attorney General’s
Government investigations
office over the state’s lawsuit, subsequently settled in August 2004,
Marketing and promotion
alleging failure to disclose data on the use of Paxilin children
In February 2004,GlaxoSmithKline received a subpoena from
and adolescents, similar cases, some of which purport to be
the US Attorney’s office in Colorado regarding the Group’s sales
class actions, have been filed in state and federal courts by
and promotional practices relating to nine of its largest selling
private plaintiffs. All those cases are in their early stages.
products for the period from January 1997 to the present.Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 121
30 Legal proceedings continued Relafen
In August 2001,the US District Court for the District of
In the UK an investigation remains pending by the UK Medicines
Massachusetts ruled the Group’s patent for nabumetone (Relafen)
and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) to determine
invalid for anticipatory art and unenforceable on the grounds of
whether the Group has complied with its pharmacovigilance
inequitable conduct. In August 2002 the CAFC issued a decision
obligations in reporting of data from clinical trials for Seroxat/Paxil
affirming the District Court’s judgement of invalidity but declining
in children and adolescents.
to rule on the judgement of inequitable conduct.
Cidra, Puerto Rico manufacturing site
Following the District Court decision,anti-trustclaims alleging
In October 2003,the FDAinspectedthe Group’s manufacturing
competitive injury and overcharges were filed by Teva and Eon
facility in Cidra, Puerto Rico. The Cidra site is engaged in tableting
Pharmaceuticals, generic manufacturers of nabumetone, by
and packaging for a range of GlaxoSmithKline products – primarily
purported classes of direct and indirect purchasers and payers
for the US market – including Paxil, Paxil CR, Coreg, Avandia
and by individual retail chains.
and Avandamet.Following that inspectionthe FDA has issued
two Forms 483 (‘observations’ of possible deficiencies in The plaintiffs’ claims are based on allegations of fraudulent
manufacturing practices) to the Group.The FDA carried out a procurement of a patent, wrongful listing of the patent in the
further inspection in November 2004 and subsequently issued FDA Orange Book and prosecution of sham patent infringement
two further Forms 483. litigation. Those cases, which were originally filed in the US District
Courts for the District of Massachusetts and the Eastern District of
The FDA observations relate to certain aspects of production
Pennsylvania, were all transferred to the District of Massachusetts.
controls, process validation and laboratory investigations.The
The Group has settled the cases filed by Teva, Eon, a group of
Group continues to cooperate with the FDA in respondingto
major retail pharmacy chains and the class of direct purchasers.
the observations contained in the Forms 483, but there can be
The court has given preliminary approval tothesettlement that
no assurance as to any remedy the FDA may ultimately seek.
the Group has reached with a class of indirect purchasers. A
hearing on final approval of that settlement is scheduled for
Anti-trust
4thMay 2005. Additionally, asettlementagreementhas been
Paxil
signedwith the states regarding their ‘global claim’ for alleged
In November 2000,the US Federal Trade Commission (FTC) staff
overcharges in connection with state purchases of the drug.
advised the Group that they were conducting a non-public
investigation to determine whether the Group was violating Augmentin
Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act by ‘monopolizing In 2002, the US District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia
or attempting to monopolize’ the market for paroxetine found various patents covering Augmentininvalid. That holding
hydrochloride by preventing generic competition to Paxiland was subsequently affirmed by the CAFC. Following the adverse
requested the Group to submit certain information in connection trial court decision, purportedanti-trustclass actions were filed
with that investigation. In October 2003 the FTC closed its on behalf of classes of direct and indirect purchasers that were
investigation on the basis of its finding that no further action is ultimately consolidated in the US District Court for the Eastern
warranted. District of Virginia. Plaintiffs alleged that the Group knowingly
obtained invalid patents and engaged in other anticompetitive
Following public reference to the FTC investigation regarding Paxil,
conduct to prevent entry of generic products in violation of the
purported class actions were filed in the US District Court for the
monopolization section of the USanti-trustlaws. The court has
Eastern District of Pennsylvania on behalf of indirect purchasers,
approved the Group’s settlement of those class action claims. In
including consumers and third party payers, and direct purchasers.
February 2005 the Group reached an agreement in principle with
The plaintiffs claimed that the Group monopolized a ‘market’ for
Lek Pharmaceuticals, a wholly-owned subsidiaryof Novartis, to
Paxilby bringing allegedly sham patent litigation and allegedly
resolve the anti-trust lawsuit filed by Lek in that same District
abusing the regulatory procedures for the listing of patents in the
Court which soughtlost profits, treble damages, injunctive relief
FDA Orange Book. The court has grantedfinalapproval to
and attorneys’ fees.
settlement with the direct purchaser class and preliminary approval
to settlement with the purported class of indirect purchasers. Canadianimportation
The hearing date for final approval for the indirect purchaser class The Group has been named in seven purported class action
settlement is9thMarch 2005. The Group has also reached a final lawsuits along with eight other pharmaceutical companies.
settlement with a group of chain drugstores. In state courts a Following the Group’s actions in 2003 toreduceillegal importation
purported consumer fraud class action in California remains at of prescription drugs from Canada, the lawsuits
an early stage and, separately, both a state court class action in allege that the companies entered an unlawful conspiracy to
California and a federal class action in Florida, each of which is prevent Canadian pharmacies from selling their products to
a purported indirect purchaser class action, have been stayed US customers.
pending disposition of the federal court settlement. A separate
The Group has also been named as a defendant, along with
action by the City of New York for alleged overcharges is also in
thirteen other drug companies, in a state court action in California,
its early stages.
in which the plaintiffs, independent pharmacies, allege that the
Apotex, Alphapharm, BASF and Sumika have filed anti-trust and defendants unlawfully conspired to keep prices artificially high
unfair competition counterclaims against the Group based on in the USA to the detriment of the plaintiffs. In relation to the
allegations similar to those made in the purported class actions same matter, the Minnesota State Attorney General has filed a
identified in the proceeding paragraph. While discovery in the complaint alleging that the Group has violated state anti-trust
Apotex matter is in the early stages, the three other actions have and commercial laws. All of theseactions are in their early stages.
been stayed.122 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
30 Legal proceedings continued 31 Post balance sheet event
Wellbutrin SR On 10th January 2005, GlaxoSmithKline announced it had
In December 2004,and January and February 2005, lawsuits, agreed to transfer most of its European and International
several of which purported to be class actions, were filed in the co-promotion rights for Levitrato Bayer for a cash consideration
US District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania against the of £148 million and a reduction in the Group’s commitment to
Group on behalf of direct and indirect purchasers of Wellbutrin SR. fund future research and development on the product.
The complaints allege violations of US anti-trust laws through sham GlaxoSmithKline retains co-promotion or co-marketing rights
litigation and fraud on the patent office by the Group in obtaining to Levitrain theUSA and more than 20 other markets.
and enforcing patents covering Wellbutrin SR. The complaints
follow the introduction of generic competition to Wellbutrin SR in 32 Related party transactions
April 2004 after district and appellate court rulings that a generic
GlaxoSmithKline held an 18.6 per cent interest in Quest
manufacturer did not infringe the Group’s patents. The cases are
Diagnostics Inc. at 31st December 2004 (2003 – 21 per cent).
in their early stages.
The Group and Quest Diagnostics are parties to a long-term
contractual relationship under which Quest Diagnostics is the
Environmental matters
primary provider of clinical laboratory testing to support the
GlaxoSmithKline has been notified of its potential responsibility
Group’s clinical trials testing requirements worldwide. During
relating to past operations and its past waste disposal practices
2004, Quest Diagnostics provided services of £35 million
at certain sites, primarily in the USA. Some of these matters are
(2003 – £31 million) to the Group.
the subject of litigation, including proceedings initiated by the
US federal or state governments for waste disposal site In 2004, both the Group and Shionogi &Co. Ltd. entered into
remediation costs and tort actions brought by private parties. transactions with their 50/50 USjoint venture company in support
of the research and development activities conducted by that
GlaxoSmithKline has been advised that it may be a responsible
joint venture company. During 2004, GlaxoSmithKline provided
party at approximately 27 sites, of which 14 appear on the
services to the joint venture of £1 million (2003 – £1 million).
National Priority List created by the Comprehensive Environmental
At 31st December 2004 the balance due to GlaxoSmithKline
Response Compensation and Liability Act (Superfund).
from the joint venture was £2 million (2003 – £3 million).
These proceedings seek to require the operators of hazardous
Dr Shapiro, a Non-Executive Director of GlaxoSmithKline plc,
waste facilities, transporters of waste to the sites and generators
received fees of $85,000 (2003 – $85,000) of which $30,000
of hazardous waste disposed of at the sites to clean up the sites
(2003 – $30,000) was in the form of ADSs, from a subsidiary of
or to reimburse the government for cleanup costs. In most
the company, for the membership onthe Group’s Scientific
instances, GlaxoSmithKline is involved as an alleged generator
Advisory Board. These are included within ‘Annual remuneration’
of hazardous waste although there are a few sites where
in the Remuneration Report on pages43to58.
GlaxoSmithKline is involved as a current or former operator of
the facility. Although Superfund provides that the defendants Dr Barzach, a former Non-Executive Director of GlaxoSmithKline
are jointly and severally liable for cleanup costs, these proceedings plc, received fees of €83,005 (2003– €72,268) from a subsidiary
are frequently resolved on the basis of the nature and quantity of of the company for healthcare consultancy provided. These are
waste disposed of at the site by the generator. GlaxoSmithKline’s included within ‘Annual remuneration’ in the Remuneration
proportionate liability for cleanup costs has been substantially Report.
determined for about 20 of the sites referred to above.
GlaxoSmithKline’s potential liability varies greatly from site to site.
While the cost of investigation, study and remediation at such
sites could, over time, be substantial, GlaxoSmithKline routinely
accrues amounts related to its share of liability for such matters.
Tax matters
Pending tax matters are described in Note12.Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 123
33 Acquisitions and disposals
Details of the acquisition and disposal of subsidiary and associated undertakings,joint ventures and other businesses are given below:
2004 Book Fair value Net assets Goodwill Cost of
values adjustments acquired capitalised acquisition
Acquisitions £m £m £m £m £m
Fraxiparine, Fraxodi andArixtra 135 162 297 – 297
Fraxiparine, Fraxodi andArixtra
InSeptember2004,for a cash consideration of £297 million the Group acquired Fraxiparine, Fraxodiand Arixtraandrelated assets
including a manufacturing facility.
Euclid SRPartners, LP
During the year an additional £2 million was invested in Euclid SRPartners, LP,an associate company in which the Group has a
38.7 per cent interest.
Disposals
Quest Diagnostics Inc.
During 2004, the Group disposed of3.8 million shares from its investment in Quest DiagnosticsInc.for cash proceeds of £188 million,
reducing the Group’s shareholding at 31st December 2004 to 18.6 per cent. After recognising a charge for goodwill previously written
offto reserves of £17 million a profit of £139 million was recognised.
GlaxoSmithKline Vehicle Finance Ltd
During 2004,the Group disposed of its employee vehicle financingsubsidiaryresulting in a loss of £3 million.
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals (Chongqing) Ltd
During 2004, the Group disposed of GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals (Chongqing) Ltd,a Group subsidiary located in China, for £7 million.
A profit on disposal of £1 million was realised, after recognising a charge forgoodwill previously writtenoff to reserves of £3 million.
Beeyar Investments (Pty) Ltd
In July 2004, the Group disposed ofBeeyar Investments (Pty) Ltd,asubsidiary located in South Africa, for cash proceeds of £1 million,
realisingaprofitof£1 million.
OptiLead S.r.l.
During the year, part of the Group’s holding in an associated undertaking, OptiLead S.r.l. was sold, resulting in a loss of £1 million.
Fraxiparine GSK GSK
Fraxodi Quest Vehicle Pharmaceuticals Beeyar
and Arixtra EuclidSR Diagnostics Finance (Chongqing) Investments Total
Cash flows £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cash consideration paid 297 2 – – – – 299
Net cash proceeds from disposals – – 188 34 7 1 230
2003 Book Fair value Net assets Goodwill Cost of
values adjustments acquired capitalised acquisition
Acquisitions £m £m £m £m £m
Europharm 1 – 1 2 3
Europharm
During 2003, the Group completed the buyout of the minority interests in Europharm Holdings SA, a Group subsidiary located in Romania,
for £3 million, giving rise to goodwill of a further £2 million, which has been capitalised.
Iterfi- Sterilyo
During 2003, a further payment of £9 million was made pursuant to the 2002 acquisition agreement based on the financial performance
of the acquired company. This amount has been included as deferred compensation in 2002.124 GlaxoSmithKlineNotes to the financial statements
33 Acquisitions and disposals continued
Disposals
SB Clinical Laboratories
An additional cash refund of £3 million was received during 2003 in respect of indemnified liabilities arising from the SB Clinical Laboratories
disposal which occurred in 1999. This refund follows the successful outcome of a case in the USCourt of Appeal.
Iterfi- SB Clinical
Sterilyo Europharm Laboratories Other Total
Cash flows £m £m £m £m £m
Cash consideration paid 9 3 – 3 15
Net cash proceeds from disposals – – 3 – 3
2002 Book Fair value Net assets Goodwill Cost of
values adjustments acquired capitalised acquisition
Acquisitions £m £m £m £m £m
Iterfi– Sterilyo (7) 4 (3) 21 18
Human Kft 10 – 10 1 11
Other – – – 1 1
3 4 7 23 30
Iterfi– Sterilyo
During 2002,the Group acquired Iterfi-Sterilyo Group for an initial cash consideration of £9 million. A further payment was paid during
2003, of £9 million, which was based on the financial performance of the acquired company during 2002. The net assets of Iterfi-Sterilyo
have been incorporated in the financial statements at their provisional fair values. No adjustments were made to these values in 2003.
Human Kft
During 2002,the Group acquired the vaccine related assets of Human Kft, a manufacturing business located in Hungary, for a cash
consideration of £11 million.
Disposals
SB Clinical Laboratories
A cash refund of £6 million was received during 2002 in respect of indemnified liabilities arising from the SB Clinical Laboratories disposal
which occurred in 1999. The refund follows the successful outcome of a case in the US Court of Appeal.
SB Clinical Iterfi- Human
Laboratories Sterilyo Kft Other Total
Cash flows £m £m £m £m £m
Cash consideration paid – 9 11 6 26
Net cash proceeds from disposals 6 – – – 6Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 125
34 Financial instruments and related disclosures The Group applies Board-approved limits to the amount of credit
exposure to any one counterparty and employs strict minimum
Policies
credit worthiness criteria as to the choice of counterparty.
Discussion of the Group’s objectives and policies for the
management offinancial instruments and associated risks is
Fair value of financial assets and liabilities
included under ‘Treasury Policies’ in the Operating and financial
The table on page126presents the carrying amounts under
review and prospects on pages74 to 75.
UK GAAP and the fair values of the Group’s financial assets and
liabilities at 31st December 2004 and 31st December 2003.
Investments
Debtors and creditors due within one year have been excluded.
The Group holds a number of equity investments, frequently in
entities where the Group has entered into research collaborations. The fair values of the financial assets and liabilities are included
The Group seeks to realise the value in these investments, which atthe amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a
inpart the research collaboration helps to create, and therefore current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced
certain of these investments are regarded as available for sale and or liquidationsale. The following methods and assumptions were
are accounted foras current asset investments. For the purposes used to estimate thefair values:
ofUSGAAP all the current asset investments are classified as
• Equity investments – market value based on quoted market
available for sale.
prices in the case of listed investments; market value by
In 2002, GlaxoSmithKline hedged part of the equity value of its reference to quoted prices for similar companies or recent
holdings in its largest equity investment, Quest DiagnosticsInc. financing information in the case of material unlisted
through a series of variable sale forward contracts. These contracts investments
(the ‘equity collar’) are structured in five series, each over one • Cash at bank – approximates to the carrying amount
million Quest shares,and mature between 2006 and 2008. • Liquid investments – based on quoted market prices for similar
companies or recent financing information in the case of
The Group has liquid investments, representing funds surplus to
marketable securities; approximates to the carrying amount
immediate operating requirements, which are accounted for as
inthe case of time deposits because of their short maturity
current asset investments. For the purposes of USGAAP the
• Short-term loans and overdrafts – approximates to the carrying
investments are classified as available for sale. The proceeds from
amount because of the short maturity of these instruments
sale of investments classified as available for saleunder US GAAP
• Medium-term loans – market value based on quoted market
were£15,048millionin the year ended 31stDecember 2004.
prices in the case of the Eurobonds and other fixed rate
The proceeds include the roll-over of liquid funds on short-term
borrowings; approximates to the carrying amount in the case
deposit. Under USGAAP the gross gains and losses reflected in
offloating rate bank loans and other loans
the consolidated profit and loss account in respect of investments
• Forward exchange contracts – based on market prices and
classified as available for sale were £34million and£2million,
exchange rates at the balance sheet date
respectively.
• Currency swaps – based on market valuations at the balance
sheetdate
Foreign exchange risk management
• Equity collar– fair value is determined based on an option
The Group has entered into forward foreign exchange contracts
pricing model
inorder to swap liquid assets and borrowings into the currencies
• Interest rate instruments –fair value is determined using the net
required for Group purposes. At 31st December 2004 the Group
present value of discounted cash flows
had outstanding contracts to sell or purchase foreign currency
• Debtors and creditors – approximates to the carrying amount
having a total notional principal amount of £11,137million
• Provisions – approximates to the carrying amount
(2003 – £8,544 million). The majority of contracts are for periods
• Auction rate preference stock–approximates to the carrying
of 12 months or less.
amount in the case of floating rate instruments
At the end of 2004,the Group had a number of currency swaps • Flexible auction market preferred stock–based on market
inplace in respect of medium-term debt instruments. Borrowings valuations at the balance sheet date.
denominated in, or swapped into, foreign currencies which match
investments in overseas Group assets are treated as ahedge Fair value of investments in own shares
against the relevant net assets and exchange gains or losses are The Group had at 31st December 2004 investments in own
recorded in reserves. shares of £2,574million (2003 – £2,729million) with a fair
value of £2,123million (2003 – £2,276million)based on quoted
Interest rate risk management market price.The shares represent purchases by the ESOP Trusts
To manage the fixed/floating interest rate profile of debt, the to satisfy future exercises of options and awards under employee
Group had several interest rate swaps outstanding with incentive schemes.They are excluded from financial instrument
commercial banks at 31st December 2004. disclosure.
Concentrations of credit risk and credit exposures of
financialinstruments
The Group does not believe it is exposed to major concentrations
of credit risk on its financial instruments. The Group is exposed
to credit-related losses in the event of non-performance by
counterparties to financial instruments, but does not expect any
counterparties to fail to meet their obligations.126 GlaxoSmithKlineNotes to the financial statements
34 Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Classification and fair values of financial assets and liabilities
The following table sets out the classification of financial assets and liabilities and provides a reconciliation to Group net debt in Note25.
Short-term debtors and creditors have been excluded from financial assets and liabilities. Provisions have been included where there is a
contractual obligation to settle in cash.
2004 2003
Carrying Fair Carrying Fair
amount value amount value
£m £m £m £m
Net debt
Liquid investments 2,818 2,820 2,493 2,509
Cash at bank 1,161 1,161 962 962
Current asset financial instruments 3,979 3,981 3,455 3,471
Sterling notes and bonds (1,475) (1,533) (1,474) (1,552)
(1,475) (1,533) (1,474) (1,552)
US dollar notes, bonds and private financing (1,828) (1,817) (866) (893)
Notes and bonds swapped into US dollars (498) (497) (498) (499)
Currency swaps – 92 – 59
Interest rate swaps – (28) – (2)
(2,326) (2,250) (1,364) (1,335)
Notes and bonds swapped into Yen (348) (338) (463) (457)
Currency swaps – 10 – 3
(348) (328) (463) (454)
Euro notes and bonds (705) (717) (699) (700)
Interest rate swap – 12 – (4)
(705) (705) (699) (704)
Other medium-term borrowings (79) (79) (34) (34)
Other short-term loans and overdrafts (1,030) (1,030) (1,069) (1,069)
Total borrowings (5,963) (5,925) (5,103) (5,148)
Total net debt (1,984) (1,944) (1,648) (1,677)
Fixed asset equity investments 145 151 98 100
Current asset equity investments 153 199 164 237
Other debtors due after 1 year 597 499 522 522
Other creditors due after 1 year (244) (244) (232) (232)
Provisions (256) (256) (245) (245)
Other foreign exchange derivatives (67) (79) 52 71
Non-hedging derivatives – (59) – 36
Auction rate preference stock – – (224) (224)
Flexible auction market preferred stock – – (279) (279)
Total non-equity minority interests – – (503) (503)
Total financial assets and liabilities (1,656) (1,733) (1,792) (1,691)
Total financial assets 4,874 4,830 4,291 4,437
Total financial liabilities (6,530) (6,563) (6,083) (6,128)
Where appropriate,currency and interest rate swaps have been presented alongside the underlying principal instrument. The carrying
amounts of these instruments have been adjusted for the effect of the currency and interest rate swaps acting as hedges.
The difference between the carrying amount and the fair value of equity (fixed and current assets) and liquid investments represents
gross unrealised gains of £52million and £2million, respectively.Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 127
34 Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Currency and interest rate risk profile of financial liabilities
Financial liabilities, after taking account of currency and interest rate swaps, are analysed below.
Total financial liabilities comprise total borrowings of £5,963million (2003 – £5,103 million), other creditors due after one year of
£244million (2003– £232million), provisions of £256million (2003 – £245 million) and non-equity minority interest preference shares
ofnil(2003 – £503 million)but exclude creditors due within one year and foreign exchange derivatives of £67 million (2003 – £nil).
The benchmark rate for determining interest payments for all floating rate financial liabilities in the tables below is LIBOR.
Non-interest
Fixed rate Floating rate bearing
Weighted Weighted
average average Weighted
At 31st December 2004 interest years for average
rate which rate years to Total
Currency £m % is fixed £m £m maturity £m
US dollars 571 5.9 13.8 1,764 411 8.9 2,746
Sterling 1,489 6.4 19.3 842 123 2.1 2,454
Euro – – – 747 44 5.3 791
Japanese Yen 348 0.4 4.6 – – – 348
Other currencies – – – 89 35 6.1 124
2,408 5.4 15.9 3,442 613 4.6 6,463
Non-interest
Fixed rate Floating rate bearing
Weighted Weighted
average average Weighted
At 31st December 2003 interest years for average
rate which rate years to Total
Currency £m % is fixed £m £m maturity £m
US dollars 279 6.1 2.1 1,676 311 10.5 2,266
Sterling 1,478 6.4 20.4 852 100 4.1 2,430
Euro 3 – – 750 34 5.6 787
Japanese Yen 463 0.5 4.3 52 – – 515
Other currencies 14 – – 39 32 4.8 85
2,237 5.1 14.7 3,369 477 8.4 6,083
Currency and interest rate risk profile of financial assets
Total financial assets comprise fixed asset equity investments of £145million (2003 – £98 million), current asset equity investments
of £153million (2003 – £164 million), liquid investments of £2,818 million (2003 – £2,493 million), cash at bank of £1,161million
(2003 – £962 million)and debtors due after one year of £597million (2003 – £522 million),but exclude foreign exchange derivatives
of £nil(2003 – £52 million).The benchmark rate for determining interest receipts for all floating rate assets in the tablesbelow is LIBOR.
Non-interest
Fixed rate Floating rate bearing
Weighted Weighted
At 31st December 2004 Fixed average average years
rate interest rate for which Total
Currency £m % rate is fixed £m £m £m
US dollars 164 6.2 11.9 1,429 757 2,350
Sterling – – – 1,088 89 1,177
Euro – – – 629 57 686
Japanese Yen – – – 1 28 29
Other currencies 155 3.0 0.2 353 124 632
319 4.7 6.2 3,500 1,055 4,874
Non-interest
Fixed rate Floating rate bearing
Weighted Weighted
At 31st December 2003 Fixed average average years
rate interest rate for which Total
Currency £m % rate is fixed £m £m £m
US dollars 300 6.6 5 1,248 479 2,027
Sterling 20 7.8 2.6 1,209 60 1,289
Euro 1 3.0 0.6 328 77 406
Japanese Yen – – – 1 33 34
Other currencies 103 2.7 0.1 293 87 483
424 5.0 3.6 3,079 736 4,239128 GlaxoSmithKlineNotes to the financial statements
34 Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Currency exposure of net monetary assets/(liabilities)
The Group’s currency exposures that give rise to net currency gains and losses that are recognised in the profit and loss account arise
principally in companies with sterling functional currency. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in overseas functional currency
andborrowings designated as a hedge against overseas net assetsare excluded from the table below.
At 31st December 2004 Functional currency of Group operation
Net monetary assets/(liabilities)
Sterling US$ Euro Yen Other Total
held in non-functional currency £m £m £m £m £m £m
Sterling _ 5 (53) – (130) (178)
US dollars 234 – 18 (1) (23) 228
Euro (97) (15) – – (46) (158)
Japanese Yen 29 – 1 – 1 31
Other 39 (8) (4) – – 27
205 (18) (38) (1) (198) (50)
At 31st December 2003 Functional currency of Group operation
Net monetary assets/(liabilities)
Sterling US$ Euro Yen Other Total
held in non-functional currency £m £m £m £m £m £m
Sterling – 157 (30) – 242 369
US dollars 41 – 12 – 45 98
Euro (55) 111 – – 6 62
Japanese Yen 7 (1) – – – 6
Other (145) (55) (12) – – (212)
(152) 212 (30) – 293 323
Finance Total Total
Debt leases Other 2004 2003
Maturity of financial liabilities £m £m £m £m £m
Within one year or on demand 1,547 35 53 1,635 2,032
Between one and two years 262 27 88 377 630
Between two and five years 1,817 24 132 1,973 1,597
After five years 2,244 7 227 2,478 1,824
5,870 93 500 6,463 6,083
2004
Gains Losses Net
Hedges £m £m £m
Unrecognised gains and losses at the beginning of the year 171 (60) 111
Unrecognised gains and losses arising in previous years and recognised in the year (27) – (27)
Unrecognised gains and losses arising in the year 8 (77) (69)
Total unrecognised gains and losses at the end of the year 152 (137) 15
Expected to be recognised within one year – (9) (9)
Expectedto be recognised after one year 152 (128) 24
Total unrecognised gains and losses at the end of the year 152 (137) 15
The unrecognised gains and losses above represent the difference between the carrying amount and the fair value of the currency
swaps, interest rate swaps, equity collar and other foreign exchange derivatives.
Committed facilities
The Group has committed facilities to back up the commercial paper programme of $900 million (£469million)(2003 – $1,404 million
(£784million))of 364 daysduration,renewable annually. At 31st December 2004, undrawn committed facilities totalled $900 million
(£469million)(2003 – $1,404 million (£784 million)).Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 129
35 Employee costs 2003 2002
2004 (restated) (restated)
£m £m £m
Wages and salaries 3,864 3,999 3,876
Social security costs 430 444 385
Pension and other post-retirement costs 295 386 257
Cost of share-based incentive plans 24 (20) 117
Severance costs arising from integration and restructuring activities 80 222 228
Pension and other post-retirement costs arising from integration and restructuring activities 6 43 59
4,699 5,074 4,922
The Group provides benefits to employees, commensurate with local practice in individual countries, including, in some markets, healthcare
insurance, subsidised car schemes and personal life assurance.
Information on Directors’ remuneration is given in the Remuneration Report on pages43to58.
2004 2003 2002
The average number of persons employed by the Group (including Directors) during the year Number Number Number
Manufacturing 31,427 34,265 36,548
Selling, general and administration 53,513 54,128 54,810
Research and development 14,897 14,773 14,808
99,837 103,166 106,166
The average number of Group employees excludes temporary and contract staff.
The numbers of Group employees at the end of each financial year are given in the Financial record (page162).
2004 2003 2002
Pension and other post-retirement costs £m £m £m
UK pension schemes 96 113 18
US pension schemes 28 75 86
Other overseas pensions schemes 69 74 52
Unfunded post-retirement healthcare schemes 84 100 61
Post-employment costs 18 24 40
295 386 257
Analysed as:
Funded defined benefit/hybrid schemes 148 213 92
Unfunded defined benefit schemes 22 24 34
Defined contribution schemes 23 25 30
Unfunded post-retirement healthcare schemes 84 100 61
Post-employment costs 18 24 40
295 386 257
Pension and other post-retirement costs arising from integration and restructuring 6 43 59
Pensions
Group undertakings operate pension arrangements which cover the Group’s material obligations to provide pensions to retired employees.
Thesearrangements have been developed in accordance with local practices in the countries concerned. Pension benefits can be provided
by state schemes; by defined contribution schemes, whereby retirement benefits are determined by the value of funds arising from
contributions paid in respect of each employee, or by defined benefit schemes, whereby retirement benefits are based on employee
pensionable remuneration and length ofservice. Some defined benefit schemes now also include defined contribution sections and
aredescribed as ‘hybrid’ schemes in the table.
In the majority of cases the contributions to defined benefit schemes are determined in accordance with the advice of independent,
professionally qualified actuaries. Formal, independent, actuarial valuations of the Group’s main plans are undertaken regularly, normally
at least every three years. Theassets of funded schemes are generally held in separately administered trusts or are insured. Assets are
invested in different classes in order to maintain a balance between risk and return. Investments are diversified to limit the financial
effect of the failure of any individual investment.130 GlaxoSmithKlineNotes to the financial statements
35 Employee costs continued
Pension costs of defined benefit schemes for accounting purposes have been assessed in accordance with independent actuarial advice,
generally using the projected unit method and by spreading surpluses or deficits over the average expected remaining service lives of the
respective memberships.In certain countries pension benefits are provided on an unfunded basis, some administered by trustee companies.
Whereassets are not held with the specific purpose of matching the liabilities of unfunded schemes, a provision is included within
provisions for pensions and other post-retirement benefits. Liabilities are generally assessed annually in accordance with the advice of
independent actuaries.
The market value of the assets of the Group’s funded defined benefit pension funds at the dates of the latest actuarial valuations, some
of which date back to 2001, was £5.1billion and the actuarial value of assets was sufficient to cover approximately97per cent of the
benefits that had accrued to members after allowing for future salary andpension increases. The UK defined benefit pension schemes
account for approximately60per cent of the Group’s plans in asset valuation and projected benefit terms and the US defined benefit
pension schemes account for approximately30per cent of the Group’s plans in asset valuation and projected benefit terms.
During 2004, the Group made special funding contributions to the UK and US pension schemes totalling £256million. The Group has
agreed with the trustees of certain of the pension schemes to make additional contributions dependent on the funding status of those
schemes.In 2005, following the move to IFRS, pension costs for the Group are expected to be approximately£35million higher than
they were in 2004.
UK
In the UK the defined benefit pension schemes operated for the benefit of former Glaxo Wellcome employees and former SmithKline
Beecham employees remain separate. These schemes were closed to new entrants in 2001 and subsequent UK employees are entitled
tojoin a defined contribution scheme. The relevant assumptions used in calculating the pension costs ofall of the UK defined benefit
schemes for accounting purposes are as follows:
2004 2003
% pa % pa
Rate of increase of future earnings 3.75 3.75
Discount rate 7.75 7.75
Expected long-term rate of return on investments 7.75 7.75
Expected pension increases 2.25 2.25
The regular cost for the Glaxo Wellcome pension arrangements in 2004 was £57million, which reduced to an accounting cost of
£47million, after allowance was made for spreading the surplus disclosed as a level percentage of salary over the expected future
working lifetime of the existing members (some9years). The most recent triennial actuarial valuations for funding purposes were
carried out asat 31st December 2002. At that date the assets of the schemes represented 92 per cent of the actuarial value of all
benefits accrued to members after allowing for future salary and pension increases. Themarket value of the assets held by the
schemes at31st December 2002 was £2,103million.
The regular cost for the SmithKline Beecham schemes in 2004 was £15million, which increased to an accounting cost of £49million
after allowance was made for the spreading of the deficit over the expected future working lifetime of current employees in the
scheme (some 10years). The latest valuation was carried out at 31st December 2002 and at that date the scheme assets represented
56per cent of the actuarial value of the accrued service liabilities based on the 2003 assumptions. Themarket value of assets held
by the scheme at 31st December 2002 was £856 million.
USA
In the USA the former Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham defined benefit and hybrid schemes were merged during 2001. The
relevant assumptions used in calculating the pension costs for accounting purposes are as follows:
2004 2003
% pa % pa
Rate of increase of future earnings 5.50 5.50
Discount rate 7.75 8.50
Expected long-term rate of return on investments 7.75 8.50
Cash balance credit/conversion rate 5.25 5.75
The regular cost for the main US schemesin 2004 was £51million, whichdecreased to an accounting cost of £28million after allowance
was made for the spreading of thesurplusover the expected future working lifetime of current employees in the schemes. The latest
valuation was carried out at 1st January 2004 and at that date the actuarial value of scheme assets represented110per cent of the
actuarial value of theaccrued service liabilities. Themarket value of assets held by the scheme at 1st January 2004 was £1,593million.
Post-retirement healthcare
The Group operates a number of post-retirement healthcare schemes, the principal one of which is in the USA. The cost of the USscheme
has been assessed using the same assumptions as for the US pension scheme, together with the assumption for future medical inflation
of10per centreducing by one per cent per year to five per cent. The total provision for post-retirement benefits at 31st December 2004
amounted to £594million (2003 – £569 million).Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 131
35 Employee costs continued
FRS 17 disclosures
The Group continues to account for pension arrangements in accordance with SSAP 24 ‘Accounting for Pension Costs’. Under the
transitional provisions of FRS 17 ‘Retirement Benefits’ certain disclosures are required on the basis of the valuation methodology adopted
by FRS 17. For defined benefit schemes the fair values of pension scheme assets at 31st December 2004 are compared with the future
pension liabilities calculated under the projected unit method applying the following assumptions:
UK USA Rest of World
2004 2003 2002 2004 2003 2002 2004 2003 2002
% pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa
Rate of increase of future earnings 4.00 4.00 3.75 5.00 5.50 5.50 3.25 3.00 3.00
Discount rate 5.25 5.25 5.75 5.75 6.25 6.75 4.25 4.75 4.75
Expected pension increases 2.50 2.50 2.25 n/a n/a n/a 2.00 2.00 1.50
Cash balance credit/conversion rate n/a n/a n/a 4.75 5.25 5.75 1.75 1.50 n/a
Inflation rate 2.50 2.50 2.25 2.50 2.50 2.25 1.75 1.50 1.50
The expected long-term rates of return on the assets determined based on actuarial advice and the fair values of the assets and liabilities of
the UK and US defined benefit schemes, together with aggregated data for other defined benefit schemes in the Group are as follows:
UK USA Rest of World Group
Average
At 31st December 2004 Expected rate Fair Expected rate Fair expected rate Fair Fair
of return value of return value of return value value
% £m % £m % £m £m
Equities 8.25 2,716 8.50 1,229 7.50 205 4,150
Property – – 6.50 58 6.25 7 65
Bonds 4.50 1,404 5.75 307 3.75 270 1,981
Other assets 4.00 44 2.50 50 2.25 62 156
Fair value of assets 4,164 1,644 544 6,352
Present value of scheme liabilities (5,326) (1,750) (760) (7,836)
(1,162) (106) (216) (1,484)
Value of schemes in surplus 18 7 25
Deferred tax liability (7) (2) (9)
11 5 16
Value of schemes in deficit (1,162) (124) (223) (1,509)
Deferred tax asset 349 46 78 473
(813) (78) (145) (1,036)
Group total (1,020)
UK USA Rest of World Group
Average
At 31st December 2003 Expected rate Fair Expected rate Fair expected rate Fair Fair
of return value of return value of return value value
% £m % £m % £m £m
Equities 8.25 2,927 8.50 1,201 7.75 174 4,302
Property – – 6.50 52 6.50 6 58
Bonds 4.50 574 5.75 314 4.00 226 1,114
Other assets 4.00 185 1.00 26 2.00 18 229
Fair value of assets 3,686 1,593 424 5,703
Present value of scheme liabilities (5,181) (1,743) (674) (7,598)
(1,495) (150) (250) (1,895)
Value of schemes in surplus 7 7
Deferred tax liability (2) (2)
5 5
Value of schemes in deficit (1,495) (150) (257) (1,902)
Deferred tax asset 449 53 95 597
(1,046) (97) (162) (1,305)
Group total (1,300)132 GlaxoSmithKlineNotes to the financial statements
35 Employee costs continued
UK USA Rest of World Group
Average
At 31st December 2002 Expected rate Fair Expected rate Fair expected rate Fair Fair
of return value of return value of return value value
% £m % £m % £m £m
Equities 8.25 2,523 9.25 804 6.75 172 3,499
Property – – 7.00 53 7.00 5 58
Bonds 4.50 299 6.25 265 4.50 145 709
Other assets 4.00 137 1.50 240 1.75 9 386
Fair value of assets 2,959 1,362 331 4,652
Present value of scheme liabilities (4,153) (1,782) (578) (6,513)
(1,194) (420) (247) (1,861)
Value of schemes in surplus 11 11
Deferred tax liability (3) (3)
8 8
Value of schemes in deficit (1,194) (420) (258) (1,872)
Deferred tax asset 358 147 97 602
(836) (273) (161) (1,270)
Group total (1,262)
The UK defined benefit schemes also have defined contribution sections with account balances totalling £404million at 31st December
2004 (2003 – £327million, 2002 – £281 million). The defined benefit sections of the UK schemes have been closed to new members and,
under the projected unit method of valuing the pension scheme liabilities, the current service cost will increase as a percentage of payroll
as the members of the schemes approach retirement. The deficits under FRS 17reflectthe different basis for valuing liabilities compared
with SSAP 24.
The liability under FRS 17 for the US post-retirement healthcare scheme has been assessed using the same assumptions as for the US
pension scheme, together with the assumption for future medical inflation of9per cent,reducing by one per cent per year to five per cent.
On this basis the liability for the USscheme has been assessed at £895million (2003 – £908 million; 2002 – £766 million), which reduced
to £564million (2003 – £590 million; 2002 – £475 million) after taking account of deferred tax.
If the defined benefit pension and post-retirement benefit schemes had been accounted for under FRS17, the following amounts would
have been recorded in the profit and loss account and statement of total recognised gains and losses for the three years ended
31st December 2004.
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
2004 UK USA Rest of World Group Group
£m £m £m £m £m
Amounts charged to operating profit
Current service cost (117) (58) (42) (217) (37)
Past service cost (3) – (2) (5) –
Curtailments/settlements (5) – – (5) –
(125) (58) (44) (227) (37)
Amounts credited/(charged) to net interest
Expected return on pension scheme assets 274 118 20 412
Interest on scheme liabilities (269) (104) (27) (400) (55)
5 14 (7) 12 (55)
Amounts recorded in statement of total
recognised gains and losses
Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets 106 82 1 189
Experience gains/(losses)arising on scheme liabilities 11 (6) 43 48 47
Changes in assumptions relating to present
value of scheme liabilities – (62) (31) (93) (82)
117 14 13 144 (35)Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 133
35 Employee costs continued
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
2003 UK USA Rest of World Group Group
£m £m £m £m £m
Amounts charged to operating profit
Current service cost (108) (67) (44) (219) (29)
Past service cost – 7 16 23 3
Curtailments/settlements (78) (15) – (93) –
(186) (75) (28) (289) (26)
Amounts credited/(charged) to net interest
Expected return on pension scheme assets 231 111 17 359
Interest on scheme liabilities (246) (119) (25) (390) (64)
(15) (8) (8) (31) (64)
Amounts recorded in statement of total
recognised gains and losses
Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets 368 230 10 608
Experience (losses)/gains arising on scheme liabilities (193) 5 (28) (216) (123)
Changes in assumptions relating to present
value of scheme liabilities (616) (61) (32) (709) (67)
(441) 174 (50) (317) (190)
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
2002 UK USA Rest of World Group Group
£m £m £m £m £m
Amounts charged to operating profit
Current service cost (118) (74) (32) (224) (24)
Past service cost (28) (34) – (62) –
Curtailments/settlements – – (1) (1) –
(146) (108) (33) (287) (24)
Amounts credited/(charged) to net interest
Expected return on pension scheme assets 293 129 14 436
Interest on scheme liabilities (235) (129) (22) (386) (53)
58 – (8) 50 (53)
Amounts recorded in statement of total
recognised gains and losses
Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets (1,024) (293) (56) (1,373)
Experience gains/(losses) arising on scheme liabilities 34 (3) 2 33 95
Changes in assumptions relating to present
value of scheme liabilities (15) (57) 10 (62) (124)
(1,005) (353) (44) (1,402) (29)134 GlaxoSmithKlineNotes to the financial statements
35 Employee costs continued
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
Movements in deficits UK USA Rest of World Group Group
£m £m £m £m £m
Deficits in schemes at 1st January 2002 (255) (245) (214) (714) (854)
Exchange adjustments – 37 (9) 28 85
Charged to operating profit (146) (108) (33) (287) (24)
Employer contributions 154 249 61 464 41
Other finance income/(expense) 58 – (8) 50 (53)
Actuarial losses recognised in statement of total
recognised gains and losses (1,005) (353) (44) (1,402) (29)
Deficits in schemes at 31st December 2002 (1,194) (420) (247) (1,861) (834)
Exchange adjustments – 20 (15) 5 96
Charged to operating profit (186) (75) (28) (289) (26)
Employer contributions 341 159 98 598 41
Other finance income/(expense) (15) (8) (8) (31) (64)
Actuarial (losses)/gains recognised in statement of total
recognised gains and losses (441) 174 (50) (317) (190)
Deficits in schemes at 31st December 2003 (1,495) (150) (250) (1,895) (977)
Exchange adjustments – 9 4 13 59
Charged to operating profit (125) (58) (44) (227) (37)
Employer contributions 336 65 68 469 40
Other finance income/(expense) 5 14 (7) 12 (55)
Actuarial (losses)/gains recognised in statement of total
recognised gains and losses 117 14 13 144 (35)
Deficits in schemes at 31st December 2004 (1,162) (106) (216) (1,484) (1,005)
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
History of experience gains and losses UK USA Rest of World Group Group
£m £m £m £m £m
2004
Difference between the expected and actual
return on scheme assets (£m) 106 82 1 189
Percentage of scheme assets at 31st December 2004 3% 5% – 3%
Experience gains/(losses)of scheme liabilities (£m) 11 (6) 43 48 47
Percentage of present value of scheme liabilities
at 31st December 2004 – – 6% 1% 5%
Total amount recognised in statement of total
recognised gains and losses (£m) 117 14 13 144 (35)
Percentage of present value of scheme
liabilities at 31st December 2004 2% 1% 2% 2% 3%Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 135
35 Employee costs continued
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
History of experience gains and losses UK USA Rest of World Group Group
£m £m £m £m £m
2003
Difference between the expected and actual
return on scheme assets (£m) 368 230 10 608
Percentage of scheme assets at 31st December 2003 10% 14% 2% 11%
Experience (losses)/gains of scheme liabilities (£m) (193) 5 (28) (216) (123)
Percentage of present value of scheme liabilities
at 31st December 2003 4% – 4% 3% 13%
Total amount recognised in statement of total
recognised gains and losses (£m) (441) 174 (50) (317) (190)
Percentage of present value of scheme
liabilities at 31st December 2003 9% 10% 7% 4% 19%
2002
Difference between the expected and actual
return on scheme assets (£m) (1,024) (293) (56) (1,373)
Percentage of scheme assets at 31st December 2002 35% 22% 17% 30%
Experience gains/(losses) of scheme liabilities (£m) 34 (3) 2 33 95
Percentage of present value of scheme liabilities
at 31st December 2002 1% – – 1% 11%
Total amount recognised in statement of total
recognised gains and losses (£m) (1,005) (353) (44) (1,402) (29)
Percentage of present value of scheme
liabilities at 31st December 2002 24% 20% 8% 22% 3%
If the FRS17 valuation basis had been applied in the financial statements instead of the SSAP 24 valuation basis, the effect on the profit and
loss account reserve after taking account of deferred tax would have been as follows:
2003
2004 (restated)
£m £m £m £m
Profit and loss account reserve per balance sheet 4,781 4,112
Pension liability under FRS 17 (1,020) (1,300)
Net pension assetunder SSAP 24 per balance sheet 387 152
(1,407) (1,452)
Post-retirement healthcare schemes under FRS 17 (640) (638)
Net post-retirement healthcare schemes provision per balance sheet (379) (372)
(261) (266)
Profit and loss account reserve including FRS17 pension and post-retirement healthcare liability 3,113 2,394136 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
36 Employee share schemes
The Group operates share option schemes, whereby options are granted to employees to acquire shares or ADSs in GlaxoSmithKline plc
at the grant price, and share award schemes, whereby awards are granted to employees to acquire shares or ADSs in GlaxoSmithKline plc
at no cost, subject tothe achievement of performance targets. In 2004, the Group introduced a new share award scheme, the Restricted
Share Plan, whereby awards are granted to employees to acquire shares or ADSs in GlaxoSmithKline plc at no cost after a three year
period. The granting of restricted share awards has replaced the granting of options to certain employeesas the cost of the scheme
more readily equates to the potential gain to be made by the employee.
The Group operates share option schemes and savings-related share option schemes. Grants under share option schemes are normally
exercisable between three and ten years from the date of grant. Grants under savings-related share option schemes are normally
exercisable after three years’ saving.
Options under the share option schemes are normally granted at the market price ruling at the date of grant. In accordance with UK
practice, the majority of options under the savings-related share option schemes are granted at a price 20 per cent below the market
price ruling at the date of grant. In accordance with the exemption granted in UITF17 (revised) no charge to the profit and loss
accountismade in relation to these savings-related share option schemes.
Options outstanding Share option Share option Savings-related
schemes – shares schemes – ADSs share option schemes
Weighted Weighted Weighted
Number exercise Number exercise Number exercise
(000) price (000) price (000) price
At 31st December 2001 179,936 £15.67 73,825 $50.31 8,200 £14.13
Options granted 33,454 £11.91 22,991 $37.57 9,793 £9.16
Options exercised (8,857) £10.55 (1,504) $21.75 (398) £14.04
Options cancelled (7,061) £17.53 (4,435) $54.69 (4,607) £14.41
At 31st December 2002 197,472 £15.20 90,877 $47.34 12,988 £10.29
Options granted 32,750 £12.84 23,630 $43.34 1,416 £10.20
Options exercised (4,728) £4.75 (1,828) $22.22 (112) £10.23
Options cancelled (19,789) £7.45 (6,150) $32.73 (3,709) £12.23
At 31st December 2003 205,705 £14.89 106,529 $46.58 10,583 £9.59
Options granted 9,837 £11.23 9,222 $42.99 1,580 £9.52
Options exercised (5,764) £6.54 (1,845) $25.65 (232) £9.18
Options cancelled (11,997) £15.33 (3,427) $48.28 (1,790) £10.46
At 31st December 2004 197,781 £14.92 110,479 $46.57 10,141 £9.44
Range of exercise prices £3.98 – £19.77 $12.83 – $61.35 £9.16 – £14.12
In order to encourage employees to convert options, excluding savings-related share options, held over Glaxo Wellcome or SmithKline
Beecham shares or ADSs, into those over GlaxoSmithKline shares or ADSs, a programme was established to give an additional cash benefit
of10per cent of the exercise price of the original option provided that the employeedidnot voluntarily leave the Group for two years
from the date of the merger anddidnot exercise the option before the earlier of six months from the expiry date of the original option
and two years from the date of the merger. The cash benefit will also be paid if the options expire unexercised if the market price
is below the exercise price on the date of expiry.
Options outstanding Share option Share option Savings-related
schemes – shares schemes – ADSs share option schemes
at 31st December2004
Weighted Latest Weighted Latest Weighted Latest
Number exercise exercise Number exercise exercise Number exercise exercise
Year of grant (000) price date (000) price date (000) price date
1995 3,266 £7.17 15.11.05 522 $21.82 15.11.05 – – –
1996 3,980 £8.41 01.12.06 956 $27.60 21.11.06 – – –
1997 7,979 £11.64 13.11.07 3,978 $40.30 13.11.07 – – –
1998 16,270 £16.93 23.11.08 6,041 $54.25 23.11.08 – – –
1999 17,344 £18.17 01.12.09 7,619 $60.13 24.11.09 – – –
2000 18,759 £14.87 11.09.10 366 $58.88 16.03.10 – – –
2001 59,320 £18.09 28.11.11 37,939 $51.82 28.11.11 270 £14.12 31.05.05
2002 31,280 £11.90 03.12.12 21,231 $37.53 03.12.12 7,419 £9.16 31.05.06
2003 29,960 £12.65 15.12.13 22,682 $43.38 15.12.13 878 £10.20 31.05.07
2004 9,623 £11.21 02.12.14 9,145 $42.98 02.12.14 1,574 £9.52 31.05.08
Total 197,781 £14.92 110,479 $46.57 10,141 £9.44
All of the above options are exercisable, except all options over shares and ADSs granted in 2002, 2003 and 2004 and the savings-related
share options granted in 2002, 2003 and 2004.
There has been no change in the effective exercise price of any outstanding options during the year.Nofurther options were granted
between 31st December 2004 and25th February2005.Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 137
36 Employee share schemes continued
Options exercisable Share option Share option Savings-related
schemes – shares schemes – ADSs share option schemes
Weighted Weighted Weighted
Number exercise Number exercise Number exercise
(000) price (000) price (000) price
At 31st December 2002 72,611 £14.33 27,129 $48.89 2,227 £13.27
At 31st December 2003 79,693 £14.56 22,364 $49.82 192 £16.48
At 31st December 2004 126,917 £16.49 57,421 $51.75 270 £14.12
GlaxoSmithKline share award schemes
PerformanceSharePlan
The Group operates a Performance Share Plan whereby awards are granted to Directors and senior executives at no cost. The percentage
of each award that vests is based upon the performance of the Group over a three year measurement period. The performance conditions
consist of two parts, each of which applies to 50 per cent of the award. Forawardsgranted in 2002 and 2003,the first part of the
condition compares GlaxoSmithKline’s Total Shareholder Return (TSR) over the period with the TSR of companies in the UKFTSE 100 Index
over the same period. For awards granted in 2004 the first part of the condition compares GlaxoSmithKline’s TSR over the period with TSR
of 13 pharmaceutical companies in thecomparatorgroup over the same period. The second part of the performance condition compares
GlaxoSmithKline’s earnings per share growth to the increase in the UKRetail Prices Index over the three year performance period. Awards
granted to Directors and members of the CET from 15th December 2003 are subject to a single performance condition which compares
GlaxoSmithKline’s TSR over the period with the TSR of companies in thecomparatorgroup over the same period.
Other awards
Shares ADSs
Number of shares and ADSs issuable Number (000) Number (000)
At 31st December 2001 3,181 1,760
Awards granted 863 477
Awards exercised (728) (197)
Awards cancelled (152) (97)
At 31st December 2002 3,164 1,943
Awards granted 1,070 832
Awards exercised (625) (189)
Awards cancelled (109) (107)
At 31st December 2003 3,500 2,479
Awards granted 1,778 1,339
Awards exercised (409) (187)
Awards cancelled (520) (276)
At 31st December 2004 4,349 3,355
RestrictedSharePlan
The Group operates a Restricted Share Plan whereby awards are granted to employees at no cost. The award vests after three yearswith
no performance criteria attached.
Shares ADSs
Number of shares and ADSs issuable Number (000) Number (000)
At 31st December 2003 – –
Awards granted 4,419 3,562
At 31st December 2004 4,419 3,562138 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
36 Employee share schemescontinued
Employee Share Ownership Plan Trusts
The Group sponsors Employee Share OwnershipPlan(ESOP) Truststo acquire and hold shares in GlaxoSmithKline plc to satisfy awards
made under employee incentive plans and options granted under employee share option schemes. The trustees of the ESOP Trusts
purchase shares onthe open market with finance provided by the Group by way of loans or contributions. The expected cost ofthe
obligations to deliver shares under the schemes are normally spread over the periods of service in respect of which the awards and options
are granted. An accelerated charge was made in 2000 in respect of the outstanding cost of providing shares for awards and options which
became exercisable solely as a result of the merger.
Shares held for share award schemes 2003
2004 (restated)
Number of shares (000) 22,992 7,748
£m £m
Nominal value 6 2
Carrying value 213 84
Market value 281 99
Shares held for share option schemes 2004 2003
Number of shares (000) 151,535 170,066
£m £m
Nominal value 38 43
Carrying value 2,361 2,645
Market value 1,852 2,177
Results in 2003 have been restated following the implementation of UITF17(revised).UITF17(revised)requires that the minimum expense
should be the difference between the fair value of the shares at the date of award and the amount that an employee may be required to
pay for the shares (i.e. the intrinsic value of the award).
The Trusts also acquire and hold shares to meet notional dividends re-invested on deferred awards under the SmithKline BeechamMid-Term
Incentive Plan. The trustees have waived their rights to dividends on the shares held by the Employee Share Ownership Trusts.
Option pricing
For the purposes of valuing options to arrive at the stock-based compensation adjustment in the Reconciliation to US accounting principles
inNote37, the Black-Scholes option pricing model has been used. The assumptions used in the model for 2004and 2003are as follows:
2004 2003
Risk-free interest rate 3.3% – 4.6% 4.2% – 4.9%
Dividend yield 3.1% 2.9%
Volatility 26% – 29% 34%
Expected lives of options granted under:
Share option schemes 5 years 5 years
Savings-related share option schemes 3 years 3 yearsNotes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 139
37 Reconciliation to USaccounting principles Additionally, the Group reassesses the useful lives of existing
recognised intangible assets. Intangible assets deemed to have
The analyses and reconciliations presented in this Note represent
indefinite lives are no longer amortised, instead they are tested
the financial information prepared on the basis of US Generally
annually for potential impairment. Separable intangible assets
Accepted Accounting Principles (USGAAP) rather than UKGAAP.
with finite lives continue to be amortised over their useful lives.
Summary of material differences between UK and US GAAP The Group adopted SFAS142 as of 1st January 2002. The
Acquisition of SmithKline Beecham implementation of SFAS142 resulted in no impairment of the
The combination of Glaxo Wellcome plc and SmithKline Beecham Group’s goodwill and an initial impairment of £173 million
plc was accounted for as a merger (pooling of interests) in (£127 million net of tax) on indefinite-lived assets. This is shown
accordance with UKGAAP. Under US GAAP, this business as a cumulative effect of an accounting change.
combination did not qualify for pooling of interests accounting
Under UKGAAP, costs to be incurred in integrating and
and Glaxo Wellcome was determined to be the accounting
restructuring the Wellcome, SmithKline Beecham and Block Drug
acquirer in a purchase business combination.
businesses following the acquisitions in 1995, 2000 and 2001
Accordingly the net assets of SmithKline Beecham were fair valued respectively were charged to the profit and loss account post
as at the date of acquisition. As a result of the fair value exercise, acquisition. Under USGAAP, certain of such costs were considered
increases in the values of SmithKline Beecham’s inventory, tangible in the allocation of purchase consideration thereby affecting
fixed assets, investments and pension obligations were recognised the goodwill arising on acquisition.
and fair market values attributed to its intangible assets, mainly
Under UKGAAP,certain intangible assets related to specific
product rights (inclusive of patents and trade marks) and in-process
compounds or products which are purchased from a third party
research and development, together with appropriate deferred
and are developed for commercial applications are capitalised.
taxation effects. The difference between the cost of acquisition
Under USGAAP, payments made for these compounds or products
and the fair value of the assets and liabilities of SmithKline
which are still in development and have not yet received regulatory
Beecham has been recorded as goodwill.
approval are charged directly to the profit and loss account
until such timethat they receive regulatory approval.
Capitalised interest
Under UK GAAP, the Group does not capitalise interest. USGAAP
Restructuring costs
requires interest incurred as part of the cost of constructing fixed
Under UKGAAP, restructuring costs incurred following acquisitions
assets to be capitalised and amortised over the life of the asset.
were charged to the profit and loss account post acquisition.
For USGAAP purposes, certain of these costs were recognised
Computer software
as liabilities upon acquisition in the opening balance sheet.
Under UK GAAP, the Group capitalises costs incurred in acquiring
and developing computer software for internal use where the Other restructuring costs are recorded as a provision under UK
software supports a significant business system and the GAAP when a restructuring plan has been announced. Under US
expenditure leads to the creation of a durable asset. For US GAAP, a provision may only be recognised when further criteria
GAAP, the Group applies SOP 98-1,‘Accounting for the Costs of are met or the liability is incurred. Accordingly, adjustments have
Computer Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use’, been made to eliminate the UKGAAPprovisions for restructuring
which restricts the categories of costs which can be capitalised. costs that do notmeet USGAAPrequirements.
Goodwill and intangible fixed assets Marketable securities
Under UKGAAP, goodwill arising on acquisitions before 1998 Marketable securities consist primarily of equity securities and
accounted for under the purchase method has been eliminated certain other liquid investments. Under UKGAAP,these securities
against shareholders’ funds. Additionally, UKGAAP requires that are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Under
on subsequent disposal or closure of a business, any goodwill USGAAP these securities are considered available for sale under
previously taken directly to shareholders’ funds is then charged SFAS 115 ‘Accounting for certain investments in debt and equity
against income. Under UKGAAP, goodwill arising on acquisitions securities’ and are carried at fair value, with the unrealised gains
from 1998 is capitalised and amortised over a period not exceeding and losses, net of tax, recorded as a separate component of
20 years. Intangible assets are amortised over their estimated shareholders’ equity.
useful economic life except in the case of certain acquired brands
Equity securities are reviewed at least annually for other
where the end of the useful economic life of the brand cannot be
than temporary impairment. The factors considered are:
foreseen.
• the investee’s current financial performance and future
Under US GAAP, goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to
prospects
30thJune 2001 was capitalised and amortised over a period not
• the general market condition of the geographic or
exceeding 40 years. All intangible assets, including brands, were
industry area in which the investee operates
amortised over a finite life. In July 2001, the Financial Accounting
• the duration and extent to which the market value
Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting
(ifavailable) has been below cost.
Standard (SFAS)142,‘Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets’.
SFAS 142 requires that goodwill no longer be amortised over its Gross unrealised gains and losses on marketable securities were
estimated useful life. The Group must instead identify and value £60million and £3million respectively at 31st December 2004
its reporting units for the purpose of assessing, at least annually, (£68 million and £5 million respectively at 31st December 2003).
potential impairment of goodwill allocated to each reporting unit.140 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
37 Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued These changes have been accounted for as prior year adjustments
under UKGAAP and the reconciliations of Profit attributable to
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits
shareholders and Equity shareholders’ funds from UKGAAP to
The key differences between UK (SSAP 24) and USGAAP
USGAAP have been restated accordingly to reconcile from the
in relation to defined benefit pension plans are:
restated UKGAAP figures.
• under UKGAAP,the effect of variations in cost can be
A reconciling difference between UKGAAP and USGAAP remains
accumulated at successive valuations and amortised on an
in respect of the charge recognised against profit. Under USGAAP,
aggregate basis. Under US GAAP the amortisation of the
shares purchased by the ESOP Trusts are accounted for within
transition asset and the costs of past service benefit
shareholders’ equity with gains and losses on issuance of shares to
improvements are separately tracked: experience gains/losses
employees being recorded as adjustments to shareholders’ equity.
are dealt with on an aggregate basis but amortised only
if outside a 10 per cent corridor
Guarantor obligations
• UK GAAP allows measurements of plan assets and liabilities The Group adopted the FASB’s Financial Interpretation No. 45
to be based on the result of the latest actuarial valuation. (FIN45),‘Guarantor’s Accounting and Disclosure Requirements
USGAAP requires measurement of plan assets and liabilities for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness
to be made at the date of the Financial statements or up to of Others’ with effect from 1st January 2003.
three months prior to that date
This requires that the Group recogniseand measure, at fair value,
• the pension adjustment also includes the impact of changes on a prospective basis, certain guarantees issued or modified after
in minimum pension liabilities included within accumulated 31st December 2002. Under UKGAAP,such guarantor obligations
other comprehensive income. are recognised when further additional criteria are met or the
liability is incurred.
During 2002, the Group decided to align the measurement
datefor all of its pension and post-retirement benefit plans to
Derivative instruments
31st December as certain of the Group’s plans had a measurement
SFAS 133, ‘Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
date for assets and liabilities of 30th September.
Activities’,as amended by SFAS 137 and SFAS 138 and as
The impact, reflected as a cumulative effect of an accounting interpreted by the Derivatives Implementation Group, was adopted
change, was a £37 million credit, net of tax, to income. by the Group with effect from 1st January 2001. SFAS 133
establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative
Stock-based compensation instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded
Under UK GAAP,share options are accounted for as equity when in other contracts (collectively, referred to as derivatives) and for
exercised, valued at the issuance price. Under USGAAP, the Group hedging activities. Under UKGAAP, some derivative instruments
applies SFAS 123,‘Accounting for stock-based compensation’,and used for hedging are not recognised on the balance sheet and
related accounting interpretations in accounting for its option plans the matching principle is used to match the gain or loss under
which require options to be fair valued at their grant date and these hedging contracts to the foreign currency transaction or
included in profit and loss over the vesting period of the options. profits to which they relate. SFAS 133 requires that an entity
recognise all derivatives as either assets or liabilities in the
The Group is entitled to receive a tax deduction for the amount
consolidated balance sheet and measure those instruments at
treated as compensation under US tax rules for employee
fair value. Changes in fair value over the period are recorded in
stock options which have been exercised by USemployees during
current earnings unless hedge accounting is obtained. The Group
the year. Under UKGAAP,this is treated as a reduction of tax
does not designate any of its derivatives as qualifying hedge
expense whereas,under USGAAP,a portion of this amount
instruments under SFAS133.SFAS 133 prescribes requirements
is credited to equity.
for designation and documentation of hedging relationships and
ongoing assessments of effectiveness in order to qualify for hedge
Employee Share Ownership Plan Trusts
accounting.
Prior to 2004, under UK GAAP shares of the Group’s stock held by
the ESOP Trustswererecorded at cost, less a provision representing The Group also evaluates contracts for ‘embedded’ derivatives,
the difference between the cost and the option exercise price, and and considers whether any embedded derivatives have to be
accounted for as fixed asset investments. Projected losses on the bifurcated, or separated, from the host contracts in accordance
exercise of the options covered by the shares were recorded with SFAS 133 requirements. If embedded derivatives exist and
through the profit and loss account over the life of theoptions. In are not clearly and closely related to the host contract, they are
2004, UITFAbstract 38,‘Accounting for ESOPTrusts’,and related accounted for separately from the host contract as derivatives.
amendments to UITFAbstract 17,‘Employee share schemes’,were
Gains and losses related to the fair value adjustments of all
implemented in the Group’s UKGAAP financial statements. UITF38
derivative instruments are classified in the consolidated statement
changes the presentation of an entity’s own shares held in an ESOP
of income and cash flows in accordance with the nature of
Trust from requiring them to be recognised as assets to requiring
the derivative.
them to be deducted in arriving at shareholders’ funds, as under
USGAAP. UITF17 (revised) requires that the minimum expense The fair value and book value of derivative instruments in respect
should be the difference between the fair value of the shares at of financial assets and liabilities as at 31st December 2004 is
the date of award and the amount that an employee may be disclosed in the ‘Classification and fair value of financial assets
required to pay for the shares (i.e. the intrinsic value of the award). and liabilities’ table in Note34.Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 141
37 Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued Sales incentives
In accordance with UKGAAP, certain amounts paid by the Group
Valuation of derivative instruments
to its customers are recorded as promotional expense included in
The fair value of derivative instruments is sensitive to movements
operating income. Under USGAAP, these items are recorded as a
in the underlying market rates and variables. The Group monitors
reduction in revenue. While these items do not result in a net
the fair value of derivative instruments on at least a quarterly basis,
impact to the income statement under USGAAP, the amount that
with a formal review every six months. Derivatives including
would be classified as a reduction in revenue in 2004 would
interest rate swaps and cross-currency swaps are valued using
be £373million (2003 – £324 million).
standard valuation models, counterparty valuations, or third party
valuations. Standard valuation models used by the Group consider
Variable interest entities
relevant discount rates, the market yield curve on the valuation
In January 2003, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 46 (FIN 46),
date, forward currency exchange rates and counterparty risk. All
‘Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities’, and in December
significant rates and variables are obtained from market sources.
2003 issued FIN 46R, a revision of this Interpretation. Under the
All valuations are based on the remaining term to maturity of the
revised Interpretation, certain entities, known as Variable Interest
instrument. Foreign exchange contracts are valued using forward
Entities (VIEs), must be consolidated by the ‘primary beneficiary’
rates observed from quoted prices in the relevant markets when
of the entity. The primary beneficiary is generally defined as
possible. The Group assumes parties to long-term contracts are
having the majority of the risks and rewards arising from the VIE.
economically viable but reserves the right to exercise early
Additionally, for VIEs in which a significant, but not majority,
termination rights if economically beneficial when such rights
variable interest is held, certain disclosures are required.
exist in the contract.
The Group has completed a review of potential VIEs and,as a
Dividends consequence,has consolidated Theravance Inc.from May 2004
Under UK GAAP, dividends proposed are provided for in the year (see Note (c) on page145).No other VIEs of which the Group is
in respect of which they are recommended by the Board the primary beneficiary were identified.
ofDirectors for approval by the shareholders. Under USGAAP,
suchdividends are not provided for until declared by the Board Recent Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB)
ofDirectors. pronouncements
In May 2004, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position (FSP)
Consolidated summary statement of cash flows FAS106-2,‘Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to
The USGAAP cash flow statement reports changes in cash and the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization
cash equivalents, which includes short-term highly liquid Act of 2003’,superseding FSP 106-1. FSP106-2 addresses the
investments with original maturities of three months or less. accounting implications of the Act for an entity that sponsors a
Onlythree categories of cash flows are reported: operating post-retirement health care plan providing prescription drug
activities (including tax and interest); investing activities benefits. The Act introduces in the USA a prescription drug
(including capital expenditure, acquisitions and disposals together benefit under Medicare,as well as a federal subsidy to sponsors
with cashflows from available for sale current asset investments); of certain post-retirement health care plans. For companies that
andfinancing activities (including dividends paid). A summary elected for deferral under FSP 106-1, FSP106-2 is effective for
statement ofcash flows is presented on page143. reporting periods commencing after 15th June 2004. The
estimated amountof the federal subsidy is treated as a prior
Cash and cash equivalents service gain and credited to the profit and loss account over the
Under UK GAAP,the cash balance includes only cash at bank and average service lives of the employees.Under USGAAP, this
other cash balances. Under USGAAP,cash and cash equivalents change resulted in a decrease of £71million in the accumulated
include cash at bank and certain liquid investments with original benefit obligation and a reduction of £2million in net periodic
maturities of three months or less. post-retirement benefit cost for the year ended
31st December 2004.
Comprehensive income statement
The requirement of SFAS 130,‘Reporting comprehensive income’,
to provide a comprehensive income statement is met under
UKGAAP by the Statement of total recognised gains and losses
(pages90and91).
Reclassifications
Certain prior year balances have been reclassified for comparative
purposes. Certain amounts previously presented in aggregate
in the reconciliation of profit under USGAAP to UKGAAP have
been presented separately in the current year presentation to
provide more information related to these adjustments.142 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
37 Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued
The following is a summary of the material adjustments to profit and shareholders’ funds which would be required if US GAAP had been
applied instead of UK GAAP.
2003 2002
2004 (restated) (restated)
Profit Notes £m £m £m
Profit attributable to shareholders under UKGAAP 4,302 4,478 3,930
Goodwill amortisation reversal including goodwill in associated undertakings (a) 17 19 18
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets (b) (1,426) (2,292) (4,089)
Acquisition and disposal ofproduct rights (b) (210) (105) (181)
Capitalised interest (17) 23 20
Tangible fixed assets (2) 5 25
Disposal of interest in associate (81) – –
Disposal of goodwill in subsidiaries 3 – –
Product divestments (1) 7 7
Equity investments (30) (31) (8)
Recognition of cost of sales on fair value step-up of inventory (13) – –
Pensions and post-retirement benefits (f) (162) (122) (138)
Stock-based compensation (296) (372) (320)
Derivative instruments and hedging 33 (41) 37
Fair value of put option granted to minority shareholders (c) 17 – –
Guarantor obligations 19 (21) –
Restructuring (12) 98 37
Tax benefits on exercise of US stock options (d) (10) (13) (13)
Deferred taxation (d) 661 787 1,178
Variable interest entities (c) (60) – –
Net income under US GAAP before cumulative effect of changes
in accounting principles 2,732 2,420 503
Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles – – (90)
Net income after cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 2,732 2,420 413
Certain items for the year ended 31st December 2002 have been reclassified for comparative purposes.
2004 2003 2002
Earnings per share under USGAAP p p p
Basic net income per share before cumulative effect of changes
in accounting principles under USGAAP 47.6 41.7 8.5
Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles per share
under USGAAP – – (1.5)
Basic net income per share after cumulative effect of changes
in accounting principles under USGAAP 47.6 41.7 7.0
Diluted net income per share before cumulative effect of changes
in accounting principles under USGAAP 47.5 41.6 8.5
Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles per share
under USGAAP – – (1.5)
Diluted net income per share after cumulative effect of changes
in accounting principles under USGAAP 47.5 41.6 7.0
2004 2003 2002
Earnings per ADS under USGAAP $ $ $
Basic net income per ADS before cumulative effect of changes
in accounting principles under USGAAP 1.74 1.37 0.26
Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles per ADS
under USGAAP – – (0.05)
Basic net income per ADS after cumulative effect of changes
in accounting principles under USGAAP 1.74 1.37 0.21
Diluted net income per ADS before cumulative effect of changes
in accounting principles under USGAAP 1.74 1.36 0.26
Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles per ADS
under USGAAP – – (0.05)
Diluted net income per ADS after cumulative effect of changes
in accounting principles under USGAAP 1.74 1.36 0.21Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 143
37Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued
2003
2004 (restated)
Equity shareholders’ funds Notes £m £m
Equity shareholders’ funds under UK GAAP 5,925 5,059
USGAAPadjustments:
Goodwill (a) 17,982 17,986
Product rights (b) 13,994 15,652
Pension intangible asset (b) 102 128
Tangible fixed assets 43 45
Capitalised interest 180 198
Marketable securities 49 84
Other investments 554 832
Fair value step-up of inventory 1 –
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits (f) (1,287) (1,702)
Restructuring costs 80 92
Derivative instruments and hedging (15) 26
Fair value of put option granted to minority shareholders (c) 17 –
Guarantor obligations (2) (21)
Dividends 683 808
Deferred taxation (e) (4,204) (5,071)
Variable interest entities (c) (60) –
Shareholders’ equity under US GAAP 34,042 34,116
2004 2003 2002
Consolidated statement of cash flows under USGAAP £m £m £m
Net cash provided by operating activities 4,618 4,895 5,345
Net cash used in investing activities (988) (904) (1,051)
Net cash used in financing activities (3,038) (3,051) (4,002)
Net increasein cash and cash equivalents 592 940 292
Exchange rate movements (93) (36) (42)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 1,986 1,082 832
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 2,485 1,986 1,082
Notes to the Profit and Equity shareholders’ funds reconciliations
(a) Goodwill
The following tables set out the UK to USGAAP adjustments required to the UK GAAP statement of profit and loss and balance sheet
in respect of goodwillincluding goodwill in respect of associated undertakings:
2004 2003 2002
Income statement £m £m £m
Amortisation under UKGAAP (17) (19) (18)
Amortisation under USGAAP – – –
UK to USGAAP adjustment for amortisation (including goodwill in respect of associated undertakings) 17 19 18
2004 2003
Balance sheet £m £m
Goodwill under UKGAAP 139 143
Goodwill under USGAAP 18,121 18,129
UK to USGAAP adjustments 17,982 17,986
Of the £18,121million (2003 - £18,129 million)USGAAP goodwill balance at 31st December 2004, £15,875million (2003 - £15,875 million)
is in respect of the goodwill arising on the acquisition of SmithKline Beecham by Glaxo Wellcome in 2000.144 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
37 Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued
The following tables present the changes in goodwill allocated to the Group’s reportable segments:
Consumer
Pharmaceuticals Healthcare Total
£m £m £m
At 31st December 2002 15,679 2,481 18,160
Additions 2 – 2
Exchange adjustments (13) (20) (33)
At 31st December 2003 15,668 2,461 18,129
Asset written off (1) – (1)
Exchange adjustments 5 (12) (7)
At 31st December 2004 15,672 2,449 18,121
(b) Intangible assets
The following tables set out the UKto USGAAP adjustments required to the UKGAAP statement of profit and loss and balance sheet
in respect of intangible assets:
2004 2003 2002
Income statement £m £m £m
Amortisation charge under UKGAAP 94 74 60
Amortisation charge under USGAAP 1,516 1,641 1,787
UKto USGAAP adjustment for amortisation 1,422 1,567 1,727
Impairment charge under UKGAAP 22 41 46
Impairment charge under USGAAP 26 766 2,581
UKto USGAAP adjustment forimpairments 4 725 2,535
Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle – – (173)
UK to USGAAP adjustment forimpairments for the period 4 725 2,362
Following the initial implementation of SFAS142 in 2002, the carrying value of the brands determined to have indefinite lives were reviewed
and an impairment of £173 million (£127 million net of tax) was recognised. This was recorded as a cumulative effect of a change in
accounting principle.
In addition to the above adjustmentsfor amortisation and impairments,further UK to USGAAP adjustmentsarose during the year of
£173million (2003 - £105 million; 2002 - £181 million) in respect of the acquisition of licences, patents etc. which are capitalised under
UKGAAP but charged directly toresearch and development expenseunder USGAAP, and £37 million (2003 and 2002 – £nil) in respect
of disposals of product rights which have a higher carrying value under USGAAP than under UKGAAP.
2004 2003
Balance sheet £m £m
Intangible assets under UKGAAP 2,003 1,697
Intangible assets under USGAAP 16,099 17,477
UKto USGAAP adjustments 14,096 15,780
Less pensions intangible asset (102) (128)
Net UKto USGAAP product rights adjustments 13,994 15,652
Intangible assets under USGAAP are analysed as follows:
2004 2003
£m £m
Acquired products 10,589 12,054
Licences, patents etc. 371 126
Brands 5,037 5,169
Pensions 102 128
Intangible assets under USGAAP 16,099 17,477
The following tables present details of the Group’s intangible assets, differentiating between those subject to amortisation and those
whichare not subject to amortisation:
2004 2003
£m £m
Intangible assets subject to amortisation 11,922 13,234
Intangible assets not subject to amortisation 4,177 4,243
Intangible assets under USGAAP 16,099 17,477Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 145
37 Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued
The following intangible assets are subject to amortisation:
2004 2003
Product Product
rights rights
£m £m
Cost 21,555 21,329
Accumulated amortisation (6,872) (5,360)
Impairment (2,761) (2,735)
Net 11,922 13,234
The carrying values of certain product rights were reviewed and an impairment of £26 million has been recorded. In 2003, impairments
of £658 million were recorded, of which £633 million related to Paxilwhich was impaired following the launch in the USA of a generic
Paxilproduct. Fair values are determined using a discounted cash flow model.
As discussed in Note30‘Legal proceedings’, a number of distributors of generic drugs have filed applications to market generic versions
ofa number of the Group’s products prior to the expiration of the Group’s patents. If generic versions of products are launched in future
periods at earlier dates than the Group currently expects, impairments of the carrying value of the products may arise.
The estimated future amortisation expense for the next five years for intangible assets subject to amortisation as of 31st December
2004 is as follows:
Year £m
2005 1,528
2006 1,487
2007 1,473
2008 1,472
2009 756
Total 6,716
Intangible assets which are not subject to amortisation include a pension asset of £102million at 31st December 2004 (£128 million at
31st December 2003) and certain product rights. The intangible assets relating to product rights are analysed as follows:
2004 2003
£m £m
Cost 4,652 4,693
Impairment (577) (578)
Net 4,075 4,115
An impairment charge of £nilwas recognised during 2004(2003 – £108 million).
(c) Theravance
In May 2004, the Group formed a strategic alliance with TheravanceInc.to develop and commercialise novel medicines across a variety
of important therapeutic areas. Under the terms of the alliance, Theravance received $129 million, a significant part of which related to the
Group’s purchase of Theravance shares. The Group has a call option in 2007 to further increase its ownership to over 50 per cent at
a significant premium to the price paid in the 2004 transaction. Theravance’s shareholders have a put option at a lower exercise price to
cause GlaxoSmithKline to acquire up to half of their outstanding stock in 2007. Given the maximum number of shares subject to the put
option,the Group’s obligation is capped at $525 million. The Group has an exclusive option to license potential new medicines from all of
Theravance’s programmes until August 2007. Upon exercising its option over a Theravance programme, the Group will be responsible for
the relevant development, manufacturing and commercialisation activities. Depending on the success of such programmes, Theravance will
receive clinical, regulatory and commercial milestone payments and royalties on the subsequent sales of medicines. Based on the assessment
performed, the Group is the primary beneficiary of Theravance, as defined by FIN 46R, and as a result Theravance has been consolidated
into the Group’s US GAAP financial statements from May 2004. The net assets acquired were measured at fair value. The principaladjustment
to the carrying value of the net assets in Theravance’s balance sheet prior to the acquisition was recognition of in-process research and
development (IPR&D) at a valuation of £273 million. The IPR&Dwas written-off immediately after the acquisition in accordance with USGAAP
purchase accounting. The effect of consolidating Theravance has been todecrease shareholders’ equityandnet income by £60million.
Additionally, the Group has accounted for the Theravance put option discussed above in accordance with SFAS 150, ‘Accounting for Certain
Financial Instruments with Characteristics of both Liabilities and Equity’, which requires the Group to record the fair value of the put option
as a liability. The fair value ofthe Theravance put optionat 31st December 2004is£69 million; as at the initial consolidation of Theravance,
the value of the put option was £86 million.In accordance with SFAS 133, ‘Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities’
the call option is not recognised in the financial statements as it is not readily convertible into cash.146 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
37 Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued
(d) Taxation
2003 2002
2004 (restated) (restated)
Total tax expense £m £m £m
UK GAAP:
Current tax expense 1,707 2,001 1,432
Deferred tax (credit)/expense (6) (272) 32
Total tax expense 1,701 1,729 1,464
US GAAP:
Current tax expense 1,717 2,014 1,445
Deferred taxcredit (667) (1,059) (1,146)
Total tax expense 1,050 955 299
Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles – – (34)
Total tax expense 1,050 955 265
UKto USGAAP adjustments:
Current tax expense 10 13 13
Deferred taxcredit (661) (787) (1,178)
Total tax expense (651) (774) (1,165)
Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles – – (34)
Total tax expense (651) (774) (1,199)
(e) Deferred taxation under USGAAP
Classification of GlaxoSmithKline’s deferred taxation liabilities and assets under US GAAP is as follows:
2003
2004 (restated)
£m £m
Liabilities
Stock valuation adjustment (51) (52)
Current deferred taxation liabilities (51) (52)
Accelerated capital allowances (664) (689)
Product rights (4,454) (4,917)
Other timing differences 66 (229)
Total deferred taxation liabilities (5,103) (5,887)
Assets
Intra-Group profit 594 485
Other timing differences 675 607
Current deferred taxation assets 1,269 1,092
Asset disposal (31) (59)
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits 57 86
Tax losses 20 94
Manufacturing restructuring 66 132
Legal and other disputes 157 167
Other timing differences 188 127
Total deferred taxation assets 1,726 1,639
Net deferred taxation under US GAAP (3,377) (4,248)
Net deferred taxation under UKGAAP 827 823
UK to USGAAP adjustment (4,204) (5,071)Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 147
37 Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued
(f) Pensions and post-retirement costs under USGAAP
2004 2003 2002
£m £m £m
UK pension schemes 225 278 103
US pension schemes 54 79 67
Other overseas pension schemes 77 83 51
Unfunded post-retirement healthcare schemes 96 118 78
Post-employment costs 18 24 40
470 582 339
Analysed as:
Funded defined benefit/hybrid schemes 298 389 149
Unfunded defined benefit schemes 37 26 48
Defined contribution schemes 21 25 24
Unfunded post-retirement healthcare schemes 96 118 78
Post-employment costs 18 24 40
470 582 339
The disclosures below include the additional information required by SFAS 132R. The pension costs of the UK, US and major overseas
defined benefit pension plans have been restated in the following tables in accordance with US GAAP. Pension costs in 2004 of £5million
(2003 – £9million; 2002 –£12 million), in respect of minor retirement plans, which have not been recalculated in accordance with
the requirements of SFAS 87, have been excluded.
2004 2003 2002
Net periodic pension costfor the major retirement plans £m £m £m
Service cost 213 211 219
Interest cost 400 392 388
Expected return on plan assets (431) (408) (470)
Amortisation of prior service cost 14 17 20
Amortisation of transition obligation 2 3 (6)
Amortisation of net actuarial loss 115 79 3
Net periodic pension costunder US GAAP 313 294 154
Termination benefits and curtailment costs 13 112 56
Adjustment for change in accounting principle – – (62)
During 2002, the Group decided to align the measurement date for all of its pension plans. As certain of the Group’s pension plans had
a measurement date for pension assets and liabilities of 30th September, the Group elected to change the measurement date for these
plans from 30th September to 31st December.
2004 2003 2002
Major assumptions used in computingpension costs %pa %pa %pa
Rates of future pay increases 4.25 4.25 4.25
Discount rate 5.25 5.50 6.00
Expected long-term rates of return on plan assets 7.00 7.50 7.75
In aggregate, average international plan assumptions did not vary significantly from US assumptions.
Estimated future benefit payments £m
2005 297
2006 306
2007 317
2008 330
2009 346
2010–2014 2,011148 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
37 Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued
2004 2003
Change in benefit obligation £m £m
Benefit obligation at beginning of year 7,866 6,760
Amendments 2 (20)
Service cost 213 211
Interest cost 400 392
Plan participants’ contributions 15 16
Actuarial loss 137 899
Benefits paid (345) (328)
Termination benefits and curtailment costs 5 92
Exchange (122) (156)
Benefit obligation at end of year 8,171 7,866
Benefit obligation at end of year for pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets 5,554 6,960
The accumulated benefit obligation at 31st December 2004 was £7,691million (31st December 2003 – £7,391 million).
2004 2003
Change in plan assets £m £m
Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year 5,968 4,855
Actual return on plan assets 651 979
Employer contributions 465 596
Plan participants’ contributions 15 16
Benefits paid (345) (328)
Exchange (64) (150)
Fair value of plan assets at end of year 6,690 5,968
Fair value of plan assets at end of year for pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets 4,519 5,525
Plan assets consist primarily of investments in UK and overseas equities, fixed interest securities, securities linked to the UK Retail Prices
Index and property. At 31st December 2004 UK equities included0.3million GlaxoSmithKline shares (2003 – 0.5 million shares) with a
market value of £4million (2003 – £7 million).
Normal employer contributions are expected to be approximately £360million in 2005.
2004 2003
Funded status £m £m
Funded status (1,481) (1,898)
Unrecognised net actuarial loss 1,900 2,123
Unrecognised prior service cost 75 96
Unrecognised transition obligation 24 26
Net amount recognised 518 347
2004 2003
Amounts recognised in the statement of financial position £m £m
Prepaid benefit cost 365 18
Accrued pension liability (1,065) (1,471)
Intangible asset 102 128
Accumulated other comprehensive income 1,116 1,672
Net amount recognised 518 347Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 149
37 Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued
Post-retirement healthcare under USGAAP
The post-retirement healthcare costs of the UK, US and major overseas post-retirement healthcare schemes have been restated in the
following tables in accordance with USGAAP. Costs in 2004of £nil(2003– £13 million, 2002– £nil), which have not been
recalculated, have been excluded.
2004 2003 2002
Net healthcare cost £m £m £m
Service cost 32 29 23
Interest cost 55 64 53
Amortisation of prior service cost (1) (2) (1)
Amortisation of net actuarial loss 11 14 3
Net healthcare cost 97 105 78
The major assumptions used in calculating the net healthcare cost were: %pa %pa %pa
Rate of future healthcare inflation 9.0 to 5.0 10.0 to 5.0 11.0 to 5.0
Discount rate 5.75 6.25 6.75
The rate of future healthcare inflation reflects the fact that the benefits of certain groups of participants are capped.
2004 2003
Change in benefit obligation £m £m
Benefit obligation at beginning of year 975 830
Amendments – (3)
Service cost 32 29
Interest cost 55 64
Plan participants’ contributions 8 8
Actuarial loss 6 192
Benefits paid (47) (49)
Exchange (64) (96)
Benefit obligation at end of year 965 975
Change in plan assets
Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year – –
Employer and plan participants’ contributions 47 49
Benefits paid (47) (49)
Fair value of plan assets at end of year – –
Funded status
Funded status (965) (975)
Unrecognised net actuarial loss 340 371
Unrecognised prior service cost (14) (17)
Accrued post-retirement healthcare cost (639) (621)
1% decrease 1% increase
Impact of a one per cent variation in the rate of future healthcare inflation £m £m
Effect on total service and interest cost (7) 8
Effect on provision for post-retirement benefits (75) 82150 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
38 Principal Group companies
The following represent the principal subsidiary and associated undertakings of the GlaxoSmithKline Group at 31stDecember2004.
Details are given of the principal country of operation, the location of the headquarters, the business segment and the business activities.
The equity share capital of these undertakings is wholly owned by the Group except where its percentage interest is shown otherwise.
All companies are incorporated in their principal country of operation except where stated.
Europe Location Subsidiary undertaking Segment Activity %
England Brentford +GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (One)Limited Ph,CH h
Brentford +GlaxoSmithKline Services Unlimited Ph,CH s
Brentford +GlaxoSmithKline Finance plc Ph,CH f
Brentford GlaxosmithKline Capital plc Ph f
Brentford SmithKline Beecham p.l.c. Ph,CH d e h m p r
Brentford Wellcome Limited Ph,CH h
Greenford Glaxo Group Limited Ph h
Greenford Glaxo Operations UK Limited Ph p
Brentford Glaxo Wellcome International B.V.(Footnote (i)) Ph,CH h
Brentford Glaxo Wellcome Investments B.V.(Footnote (i)) Ph,CH h
Stockley Park Glaxo Wellcome UK Limited Ph h m p
Brentford GlaxoSmithKline Export Limited Ph e
Brentford GlaxoSmithKline Research & Development Limited Ph dr
Brentford GlaxoSmithKline UKLimited Ph m p
Brentford SmithKline Beecham (Investments) Limited Ph,CH f
Brentford SmithKline Beecham (SWG) Limited CH e m
Brentford SmithKline Beecham Research Limited Ph m
Brentford Stafford-Miller Limited CH m p
Greenford The Wellcome Foundation Limited Ph p
Brentford Setfirst (No. 2) Limited Ph,CH fh
(formerly GlaxoSmithKline Luxembourg S.A.) (Footnote (ii))
Austria Vienna GlaxoSmithKline Pharma G.m.b.H Ph m
Belgium Genval GlaxoSmithKline S.A. Ph m
Rixensart GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals S.A. Ph d em pr
Rixensart GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals Manufacturing S.A. Ph h
Guernsey St. Peter Port SmithKline BeechamLimited Ph,CH i
Denmark Ballerup GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare A/S CH m
Brøndby GlaxoSmithKline PharmaA/S Ph m
Finland Espoo GlaxoSmithKline Oy Ph m
France Marly le Roi Groupe GlaxoSmithKline S.A.S Ph h
Marly le Roi Laboratoire GlaxoSmithKline S.A.S Ph m
Marly le Roi Glaxo Wellcome Production S.A.S Ph m p
Marly le Roi GlaxoSmithKline Sante Grand Public S.A.S. CH m
Germany Buehl GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare GmbH & Co KG CH d h m pr s
Buehl GlaxoSmithKline Healthcare GmbH CH h
Greece Athens GlaxoSmithKline A.E.B.E Ph,CH h m
Hungary Budapest GlaxoSmithKline Kft Ph,CH e m
Italy Verona GlaxoSmithKline S.p.A. Ph d h mr
Milan GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare S.p A. CH h m
Luxembourg Mamer GlaxoSmithKline International (Luxembourg) S.A. Ph,CH f hNotes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 151
38 Principal Group companies continued
Europe Location Subsidiary undertaking Segment Activity %
Netherlands Zeist GlaxoSmithKline B.V. Ph m
Zeist GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare B.V. CH m
Norway Oslo GlaxoSmithKline AS Ph m
Poland Poznan GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals S.A. Ph m p 97
Warsaw GlaxoSmithKline Consumer HealthcareSp.zo.o. CH me
Portugal Lisbon GlaxoSmithKline-Produtos Farmaceuticos Lda Ph m
Republic of Dublin GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (Ireland) Limited (Footnote (iii)) CH m
Ireland Carrigaline SmithKline Beecham (Cork) Limited(Footnote (iii)) Ph p
Carrigaline SmithKline Beecham (Manufacturing)Limited(Footnote (iii)) Ph p
Spain Tres Cantos GlaxoSmithKline, S.A. Ph m
Aranda de Duero GlaxoSmithKline, S.A. Ph p
AlcaladeHenares SmithKline Beecham S.A. Ph p
Sweden Mölndal GlaxoSmithKline AB Ph m
Switzerland Muenchenbuchsee GlaxoSmithKline Investments (Switzerland) GmbH Ph,CH h
Muenchenbuchsee GlaxoSmithKline AG Ph m
Zug Adechsa GmbH Ph e
USA
USA Philadelphia SmithKline Beecham Corporation Ph,CH d e hm p r s
Pittsburgh GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare, L.P. CH m p 88
Pittsburgh Block Drug Company, Inc CH h m p
Wilmington GlaxoSmithKline Financial Inc Ph f
Wilmington GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (Americas) Inc Ph,CH h
Americas
Bermuda Hamilton GlaxoSmithKline Insurance Ltd Ph,CH i
Canada Mississauga GlaxoSmithKline Inc Ph,CH m p r
Asia Pacific
Australia Boronia Glaxo Wellcome Australia Pty Ltd Ph,CH d e m p r
China Hong Kong GlaxoSmithKline Limited Ph,CH m
Tianjin Sino-American Tianjin Smith Kline & French Laboratories Ltd Ph d m p r 55
India Mumbai GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Limited Ph m p 59
Nabha GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Limited(Footnote (iv)) CH m p 40
Malaysia Petaling Jaya
Selangor GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceutical Sdn Bhd Ph m
Darul Ehsan
New Zealand Auckland GlaxoSmithKline NZ Limited Ph,CH m
Pakistan Karachi GlaxoSmithKline Pakistan Limited Ph,CH m pe 79
Philippines Makati GlaxoSmithKline Philippines Inc. Ph,CH m
Singapore Singapore Glaxo Wellcome Manufacturing Pte Ltd Ph p
Singapore GlaxoSmithKline Pte Ltd Ph m
South Korea Seoul GlaxoSmithKline Korea Ph m p
Taiwan Taipei Glaxo Wellcome Taiwan Limited Ph m p152 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
38 Principal Group companies continued
Japan Location Subsidiary undertaking Segment Activity %
Japan Tokyo GlaxoSmithKline K.K. Ph,CH d m p r 85
Latin America
Argentina Buenos Aires GlaxoSmithKline Argentina S.A. Ph,CH m p
Brazil Rio de Janeiro GlaxoSmithKline Brasil Ltda Ph,CH m p
Colombia Bogota GlaxoSmithKline Colombia S.A. Ph,CH m
Mexico Mexico City GlaxoSmithKline Mexico, S.A.de C.V. Ph,CH e m ps
Puerto Rico Guaynabo GlaxoSmithKline Puerto Rico Inc. Ph m
San Juan SB Pharmco Puerto Rico Inc. Ph p
Venezuela Caracas GlaxoSmithKline Venezuela C.A. Ph,CH m
Middle East&
Africa
Egypt Cairo GlaxoSmithKlineS.A.E Ph m p 90
South Africa Bryanston GlaxoSmithKline South Africa (Pty) Ltd Ph,CH m p
Turkey Istanbul GlaxoSmithKline Ilaclari Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S. Ph m p
USA Location Associated undertaking Business %
USA Teterboro Quest DiagnosticsIncorporated(Footnote (v)). Clinical testing 19
Footnotes
(i) Incorporated in the Netherlands
(ii) Originally incorporated in Luxembourg, now registered in Guernsey
(iii) Exempt from the provisions of Section 7 of the Companies (Amendment)Act 1986 (Ireland)
(iv) Consolidated as a subsidiary undertaking in accordance with Section 258 (4)(a) of the Companies Act on the grounds ofdominant
influence
(v) Equity accounted on the grounds of significant influence
+ Directly held wholly owned subsidiary of GlaxoSmithKline plc
Business segment: PhPharmaceuticals, CHConsumer Healthcare
Business activity: ddevelopment, eexporting, ffinance, hholding company, iinsurance, mmarketing, pproduction, rresearch,
sservice
Full details of all Group subsidiary and associated undertakings will be attached to the company’s Annual Return to be filed with the
Registrar ofCompanies.GlaxoSmithKline 153
Investor information
This section includes the financial record presentinghistorical
information prepared under UKGAAP. In addition, historical
information restated in accordance with International Financial
Reporting Standards is presented. This section alsodiscusses
shareholder return – the return to shareholders in the form of
dividends and share price movements – and provides other
information for shareholders.
Financial record
Information prepared under UKGAAP
154 Quarterly trend
160 Five yearrecord
Financial information under International Financial
Reporting Standards(IFRS)
163 Background
164 IFRS accounting policies
167 IFRSadjustments
169 IFRS pharmaceutical turnover- total Group
170 IFRSConsolidated income statement
172 IFRSConsolidated balance sheet
172 IFRSConsolidated statement of recognised income and expense
173 IFRSConsolidated cash flow statement
174 Shareholder return
175 Shareholder information
176 Share capital
178 Taxation information for shareholders154 GlaxoSmithKline
Financial record
Quarterly trend
An unaudited analysis is provided by quarter of the Group results in sterling for the financial year 2004. The analysis comprises statutory
results, business performance results and pharmaceutical sales by therapeutic area.
Profit and loss account – statutory 12 months2004 Q42004
£m CER % £% £m CER % £%
Turnover–Pharmaceuticals 17,146 1 (6) 4,487 3 (1)
– Consumer Healthcare 3,213 3 (1) 846 1 (2)
Total turnover 20,359 1 (5) 5,333 3 (1)
Cost of sales (4,309) (1) (5) (1,158) (4) (7)
Selling, general and administrative expenditure (7,061) (2) (7) (2,047) 4 2
Research and development expenditure (2,839) 7 2 (846) 7 3
Operating costs (14,209) (4,051)
Trading profit –Pharmaceuticals 5,530 1,110
–Consumer Healthcare 620 172
Total trading profit 6,150 5 (6) 1,282 5 (2)
Other operating income/(expense) (60) 40
Operating profit 6,090 6 (4) 1,322 24 16
Share of profits/(losses) of joint ventures and associated undertakings 95 23
Business disposals (1) (1)
Profit on disposal of interests in associates 138 97
Profit before interest 6,322 1,441
Net interest payable (203) (51)
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 6,119 8 (3) 1,390 34 24
Taxation (1,701) (401)
Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 4,418 7 (4) 989 30 21
Equity minority interests (114) (28)
Preference share dividends (2) –
Earnings (Profit attributable to shareholders) 4,302 7 (4) 961 30 21
Basic earnings per share 75.0p 8 (3) 16.8p 31 22
Profit and loss account – business performance
Turnover – Pharmaceuticals 17,146 1 (6) 4,487 3 (1)
– Consumer Healthcare 3,213 3 (1) 846 1 (2)
Total turnover 20,359 1 (5) 5,333 3 (1)
Cost of sales (4,309) 7 3 (1,158) 7 4
Selling, general and administrative expenditure (7,061) (2) (7) (2,047) 6 4
Research and development expenditure (2,839) 8 2 (846) 8 4
Operating costs (14,209) (4,051)
Trading profit –Pharmaceuticals 5,530 1,110
–Consumer Healthcare 620 172
Total trading profit 6,150 (1) (11) 1,282 (7) (13)
Other operating income/(expense) (60) 40
Operating profit 6,090 – (10) 1,322 8 1
Share of profits/(losses) of joint ventures and associated undertakings 95 23
Business disposals (1) (1)
Profit ondisposalof interest in associates 138 97
Profit before interest 6,322 1,441
Net interest payable (203) (51)
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 6,119 2 (9) 1,390 17 8
Taxation (1,701) (401)
Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 4,418 1 (9) 989 14 6
Equity minority interests (114) (28)
Preference share dividends (2) –
Adjusted earnings (Profit attributable to shareholders) 4,302 1 (10) 961 14 6
Adjusted earnings per share 75.0p 16.8pFinancial recordGlaxoSmithKline 155
9 months2004 Q32004 6 months2004 Q22004 Q12004
£m CER % £% £m CER % £% £m CER % £% £m CER % £% £m CER % £%
12,659 – (7) 4,213 (1) (9) 8,446 1 (6) 4,266 1 (7) 4,180 1 (6)
2,367 4 (1) 806 3 (3) 1,561 5 – 798 4 (1) 763 6 1
15,026 1 (6) 5,019 – (8) 10,007 2 (6) 5,064 2 (6) 4,943 2 (5)
(3,151) – (5) (1,096) 2 (3) (2,055) (2) (6) (1,031) 1 (3) (1,024) (4) (8)
(5,014) (4) (10) (1,647) (10) (15) (3,367) (1) (8) (1,641) (3) (12) (1,726) 2 (3)
(1,993) 7 1 (682) 6 – (1,311) 7 2 (680) 9 4 (631) 5 –
(10,158) (3,425) (6,733) (3,352) (3,381)
4,420 1,412 3,008 1,557 1,451
448 182 266 155 111
4,868 5 (6) 1,594 7 (7) 3,274 4 (6) 1,712 4 (5) 1,562 4 (8)
(100) (33) (67) (102) 35
4,768 2 (9) 1,561 7 (7) 3,207 – (10) 1,610 (7) (14) 1,597 7 (4)
72 22 50 28 22
– – – – –
41 – 41 41 –
4,881 1,583 3,298 1,679 1,619
(152) (61) (91) (48) (43)
4,729 2 (9) 1,522 6 (8) 3,207 – (9) 1,631 (6) (13) 1,576 7 (5)
(1,300) (418) (882) (449) (433)
3,429 2 (9) 1,104 6 (8) 2,325 – (9) 1,182 (5) (13) 1,143 7 (6)
(86) (39) (47) (25) (22)
(2) – (2) – (2)
3,341 2 (9) 1,065 6 (9) 2,276 – (9) 1,157 (5) (13) 1,119 7 (6)
58.2p 3 (8) 18.7p 7 (7) 39.5p 1 (8) 20.1p (4) (12) 19.4p
12,659 – (7) 4,213 (1) (9) 8,446 1 (6) 4,266 1 (7) 4,180 1 (6)
2,367 4 (1) 806 3 (3) 1,561 5 – 798 4 (1) 763 6 1
15,026 1 (6) 5,019 – (8) 10,007 2 (6) 5,064 2 (6) 4,943 2 (5)
(3,151) 7 3 (1,096) 8 3 (2,055) 6 2 (1,031) 9 4 (1,024) 4 –
(5,014) (4) (10) (1,647) (12) (16) (3,367) – (7) (1,641) (3) (12) (1,726) 2 (3)
(1,993) 8 2 (682) 6 – (1,311) 8 3 (680) 11 6 (631) 6 –
(10,158) (3,425) (6,733) (3,352) (3,381)
4,420 1,412 3,008 1,557 1,451
448 182 266 155 111
4,868 1 (10) 1,594 5 (9) 3,274 (1) (11) 1,712 (1) (9) 1,562 (2) (13)
(100) (33) (67) (102) 35
4,768 (2) (13) 1,561 5 (9) 3,207 (6) (14) 1,610 (12) (18) 1,597 1 (10)
72 22 50 28 22
– – – – –
41 – 41 41 –
4,881 1,583 3,298 1,679 1,619
(152) (61) (91) (48) (43)
4,729 (2) (13) 1,522 4 (10) 3,207 (5) (14) 1,631 (10) (17) 1,576 1 (11)
(1,300) (418) (882) (449) (433)
3,429 (2) (13) 1,104 4 (10) 2,325 (5) (14) 1,182 (9) (17) 1,143 – (11)
(86) (39) (47) (25) (22)
(2) – 2 – (2)
3,341 (2) (13) 1,065 4 (11) 2,276 (5) (14) 1,157 (10) (17) 1,119 – (11)
58.2p 18.7p 39.5p 20.1p 19.4p156 GlaxoSmithKline Financial record
Pharmaceutical turnover – total Group
Q42004 Q32004 Q22004 Q12004
£m CER % £% £m CER % £% £m CER % £% £m CER % £%
Respiratory 1,173 4 – 1,070 10 1 1,086 6 (1) 1,086 7 (1)
Seretide/Advair,
Flixotide/Flovent, Serevent 920 5 2 832 10 2 852 12 5 824 8 1
Seretide/Advair 668 13 8 609 20 10 603 22 14 581 22 13
Flixotide/Flovent 167 (8) (10) 141 (8) (15) 156 (3) (10) 154 (9) (14)
Serevent 85 (17) (17) 82 (13) (19) 93 (9) (15) 89 (21) (26)
Flixonase/Flonase 143 5 (1) 145 28 14 133 (11) (19) 157 11 (1)
Central Nervous System 837 (9) (13) 835 (26) (33) 877 (17) (24) 914 (8) (17)
Seroxat/Paxil 242 (23) (26) 246 (51) (55) 284 (41) (45) 291 (36) (41)
Paxil IR 144 (34) (35) 144 (65) (67) 189 (54) (56) 190 (51) (53)
Paxil CR 98 1 (6) 102 4 (7) 95 21 8 101 37 20
Wellbutrin 164 (24) (28) 173 (30) (38) 193 (7) (16) 221 17 2
Wellbutrin IR, SR 30 (85) (84) 45 (79) (82) 76 (64) (67) 133 (30) (38)
Wellbutrin XL 134 >100 >100 128 >100 >100 117 >100 – 88 >100 >100
Imigran/Imitrex 177 – (6) 175 (3) (12) 158 (9) (17) 172 4 (6)
Lamictal 182 31 25 172 29 19 171 38 27 153 29 18
Requip 32 23 19 29 22 12 29 29 21 26 24 18
Anti-virals 606 8 4 597 11 2 595 6 (2) 562 6 (2)
HIV 375 6 2 372 8 (1) 368 2 (6) 348 – (7)
Combivir 147 4 – 144 7 (1) 141 – (7) 139 4 (3)
Trizivir 75 (12) (15) 79 (6) (14) 87 (7) (15) 81 (8) (14)
Epivir 73 8 4 73 6 (3) 77 11 4 71 4 (4)
Ziagen 38 1 (3) 42 7 (2) 37 (2) (12) 38 (7) (12)
Retrovir 11 8 – 11 5 – 11 – (8) 10 (4) (9)
Agenerase, Lexiva 21 66 62 18 >100 >100 15 >100 88 9 9 –
Herpes 183 14 8 179 15 5 182 10 2 174 23 15
Valtrex 146 20 13 147 27 15 145 19 10 133 31 21
Zovirax 37 (6) (10) 32 (21) (24) 37 (15) (20) 41 3 –
Zeffix 34 – – 33 13 3 33 14 3 30 4 (3)
Anti-bacterials 396 (20) (22) 353 (10) (16) 386 (1) (8) 426 (4) (9)
Augmentin 170 (30) (32) 156 (7) (12) 178 6 (1) 204 – (6)
Augmentin IR 135 (17) (19) 125 (9) (13) 134 11 6 139 (3) (6)
Augmentin ES 5 (93) (90) 14 32 17 22 (18) (30) 33 (15) (25)
Augmentin XR 30 (12) (17) 17 (12) (19) 22 (10) – 32 41 23
Zinnat/Ceftin 58 (15) (17) 45 (16) (21) 52 1 (5) 63 2 (2)
Metabolic 324 18 11 320 25 13 339 52 38 270 16 4
Avandia/Avandamet 287 21 14 284 31 18 307 59 45 238 18 5
Vaccines 350 23 21 328 22 15 278 4 (2) 240 (6) (9)
Hepatitis 109 10 7 102 7 – 105 6 (1) 90 (11) (16)
Infanrix/Pediarix 100 35 32 95 22 14 86 (9) (16) 76 6 1
Oncology and emesis 229 5 (1) 246 9 (1) 237 (5) (13) 222 (1) (10)
Zofran 190 7 2 201 12 1 192 2 (7) 180 10 (1)
Hycamtin 24 (7) (8) 26 – (10) 25 (5) (14) 24 1 (8)
Cardiovascular and urogenital 280 50 44 233 14 3 220 35 24 200 27 16
Coreg 115 29 20 110 29 13 113 50 35 94 27 12
Levitra 12 78 71 11 (53) (56) 9 >100 >100 17 >100 >100
Avodart 23 >100 >100 17 >100 >100 14 >100 >100 10 >100 >100
Other 292 8 4 231 (13) (20) 248 (14) (19) 260 (6) (12)
Zantac 69 (6) (9) 66 (12) (18) 70 (15) (21) 68 (14) (18)
Total 4,487 3 (1) 4,213 (1) (9) 4,266 1 (7) 4,180 1 (6)
Pharmaceutical turnover includes co-promotion income.Financial recordGlaxoSmithKline 157
Pharmaceutical turnover – USA
Q42004 Q32004 Q22004 Q12004
£m CER % £% £m CER % £% £m CER % £% £m CER % £%
Respiratory 568 7 – 556 15 2 511 3 (8) 548 10 (4)
Seretide/Advair
Flixotide/Flovent, Serevent 458 8 – 431 12 (1) 405 9 (2) 416 7 (6)
Seretide/Advair 367 16 8 342 22 8 304 18 6 317 24 9
Flixotide/Flovent 64 (11) (17) 59 (13) (23) 65 (6) (16) 63 (18) (28)
Serevent 27 (25) (29) 30 (22) (32) 36 (20) (28) 36 (36) (44)
Flixonase/Flonase 105 2 (4) 119 32 16 100 (15) (24) 126 22 7
Central Nervous System 536 (6) (12) 544 (32) (40) 579 (20) (28) 612 (11) (22)
Seroxat/Paxil 108 (20) (25) 117 (64) (68) 146 (52) (57) 148 (48) (55)
Paxil IR 13 (69) (68) 17 (92) (93) 53 (77) (79) 48 (77) (80)
Paxil CR 95 (1) (8) 100 2 (9) 93 20 7 100 36 19
Wellbutrin 159 (24) (28) 168 (30) (38) 191 (5) (15) 217 18 3
Wellbutrin IR, SR 25 (87) (86) 41 (81) (83) 75 (63) (67) 129 (29) (39)
Wellbutrin XL 134 >100 >100 127 >100 >100 116 >100 – 88 >100 >100
Imigran/Imitrex 130 5 (2) 127 (5) (15) 109 (11) (21) 126 3 (9)
Lamictal 113 58 47 106 42 26 104 55 41 91 39 20
Requip 15 40 36 13 21 – 13 25 8 12 20 9
Anti-virals 291 12 4 307 19 6 296 12 (1) 271 6 (7)
HIV 186 7 – 198 13 1 191 6 (5) 172 (8) (19)
Combivir 70 3 (4) 73 12 (1) 69 3 (8) 68 (2) (14)
Trizivir 38 (12) (19) 47 (4) (13) 49 (6) (18) 43 (16) (26)
Epivir 32 – (3) 35 6 (8) 39 17 8 33 (6) (20)
Ziagen 17 (6) (11) 20 3 (9) 18 (4) (14) 18 (13) (25)
Retrovir 4 (3) – 5 12 – 4 1 (20) 4 (10) (20)
Agenerase, Lexiva 15 76 50 13 >100 >100 12 >100 >100 6 17 –
Herpes 95 24 14 99 32 16 97 25 13 89 43 25
Valtrex 92 23 14 96 34 19 95 28 14 86 38 21
Zovirax 3 93 50 3 (19) (25) 2 (45) (33) 3 >100 >100
Zeffix 3 6 – 3 30 50 2 4 (33) 3 34 50
Anti-bacterials 85 (45) (49) 71 (25) (34) 89 (13) (21) 111 (8) (20)
Augmentin 50 (55) (57) 42 (14) (22) 53 (2) (12) 78 8 (6)
Augmentin IR 19 (41) (42) 14 (31) (36) 11 67 57 15 36 15
Augmentin ES 3 (95) (94) 13 26 8 21 (22) (30) 32 (17) (28)
Augmentin XR 28 (15) (20) 15 (18) (29) 21 2 (8) 31 39 21
Zinnat/Ceftin 2 (43) (67) 1 (77) (75) 2 (44) (50) 4 (50) (50)
Metabolic 218 17 9 216 24 10 233 56 40 185 11 (3)
Avandia/Avandamet 218 17 9 216 24 10 233 56 40 185 11 (3)
Vaccines 79 30 22 67 9 (4) 67 2 (8) 55 (14) (25)
Hepatitis 34 (6) (13) 34 1 (13) 35 16 3 31 (23) (31)
Infanrix, Pediarix 40 63 54 33 20 6 32 (9) (18) 24 1 (14)
Oncology and emesis 165 6 (1) 182 13 – 172 (7) (17) 160 (2) (14)
Zofran 140 10 3 152 16 3 141 1 (9) 132 12 (3)
Hycamtin 15 (14) (21) 17 (6) (19) 16 (10) (24) 16 4 (6)
Cardiovascular and urogenital 151 36 27 142 2 (9) 141 44 28 129 34 17
Coreg 114 33 24 108 33 17 112 55 38 91 29 12
Levitra 5 >100 >100 3 (82) (85) 1 – – 11 – –
Avodart 11 >100 >100 10 77 67 7 >100 – 6 >100 >100
Other 21 33 31 21 (2) (19) 24 (5) (11) 22 (15) (27)
Zantac 16 23 14 17 10 (6) 20 – (9) 17 (17) (26)
Total 2,114 4 (3) 2,106 (4) (15) 2,112 – (10) 2,093 1 (12)
Pharmaceutical turnover includes co-promotion income.158 GlaxoSmithKline Financial record
Pharmaceutical turnover – Europe
Q42004 Q32004 Q22004 Q12004
£m CER % £% £m CER % £% £m CER % £% £m CER % £%
Respiratory 403 (2) (1) 358 7 4 403 11 7 374 5 6
Seretide/Advair
Flixotide/Flovent, Serevent 328 (1) 8 295 11 8 329 16 13 301 9 9
Seretide/Advair 238 7 8 213 21 17 240 29 25 211 18 19
Flixotide/Flovent 50 (13) (12) 43 (5) (9) 48 (6) (8) 48 (6) (8)
Serevent 40 (22) (22) 39 (11) (11) 41 (12) (15) 42 (8) (9)
Flixonase/Flonase 14 5 8 12 7 – 19 5 6 14 10 8
Central Nervous System 183 (19) (18) 181 (10) (12) 191 (7) (10) 193 (6) (5)
Seroxat/Paxil 55 (38) (37) 58 (32) (35) 67 (29) (30) 71 (27) (27)
Paxil IR 55 (38) (37) 58 (32) (35) 67 (29) (30) 71 (27) (27)
Paxil CR – – – – – – – – – – – –
Wellbutrin 1 >100 >100 – – – – – – – – –
Wellbutrin IR, SR 1 >100 >100 – – – – – – – – –
Wellbutrin XL – – – – – – – – – – – –
Imigran/Imitrex 35 (15) (15) 36 2 – 36 2 (3) 35 6 6
Lamictal 58 (2) – 54 10 8 56 17 12 51 15 16
Requip 15 8 7 14 22 17 14 32 27 13 28 30
Anti-virals 189 3 3 170 (1) (4) 183 (3) (6) 183 6 7
HIV 146 2 3 132 – (4) 141 (1) (5) 140 9 9
Combivir 60 6 5 54 3 2 56 1 (5) 56 13 14
Trizivir 32 (15) (14) 30 (10) (14) 34 (10) (11) 34 3 3
Epivir 30 10 11 27 5 – 29 8 4 29 16 16
Ziagen 16 4 7 14 (3) (7) 15 (4) (6) 15 (3) –
Retrovir 4 14 – 4 (3) – 4 4 – 4 2 –
Agenerasee, Lexiva 4 65 100 3 28 – 3 (9) – 2 2 –
Herpes 35 2 3 31 (8) (14) 35 (12) (15) 37 (2) –
Valtrex 23 12 15 22 6 – 23 (4) (8) 22 12 16
Zovirax 12 (13) (14) 9 (31) (36) 12 (23) (25) 15 (17) (17)
Zeffix 6 13 20 6 37 50 5 38 25 5 24 25
Anti-bacterials 184 (11) (11) 154 (8) (10) 169 3 (2) 194 (5) (5)
Augmentin 78 (12) (11) 63 (14) (17) 75 5 1 82 (12) (13)
Augmentin IR 76 (13) (13) 62 (16) (18) 74 2 – 81 (13) (14)
Augmentin ES – – – – – – – – – – – –
Augmentin XR 2 >100 100 1 >100 – 1 >100 >100 1 >100 >100
Zinnat/Ceftin 36 (17) (14) 25 1 (4) 31 14 7 41 9 11
Metabolic 37 13 12 36 15 9 31 26 24 31 25 24
Avandia/Avandamet 29 32 32 27 49 42 25 47 47 22 83 83
Vaccines 156 20 21 150 17 14 116 (5) (9) 101 (6) (6)
Hepatitis 56 19 17 52 17 16 51 (3) (7) 42 (5) (5)
Infanrix/Pediarix 48 23 30 41 14 8 38 (4) (10) 35 13 17
ONCOLOGY AND EMESIS 42 2 2 42 6 5 44 7 2 42 8 8
Zofran 32 – – 32 4 – 34 7 6 32 8 7
Hycamtin 8 15 33 7 14 17 7 11 – 7 14 17
Cardiovascular and urogenital 96 100 100 64 53 45 53 29 26 49 16 17
Coreg – – – – – – – – – – – –
Levitra 6 47 50 5 99 67 5 >100 >100 5 93 >100
Avodart 10 >100 >100 7 >100 >100 6 >100 >100 4 >100 >100
Other 107 20 19 67 (13) (16) 73 (16) (20) 79 (14) (16)
Zantac 17 (22) (26) 17 (26) (23) 18 (18) (25) 20 (22) (20)
Total 1,397 2 2 1,222 3 – 1,263 2 (2) 1,246 – –
Pharmaceutical turnover includes co-promotion income.Financial recordGlaxoSmithKline 159
Pharmaceutical turnover – International
Q42004 Q32004 Q22004 Q12004
£m CER % £% £m CER % £% £m CER % £% £m CER % £%
Respiratory 202 8 5 156 – (7) 172 9 4 164 (1) (2)
Seretide/Advair
Flixotide/Flovent, Serevent 134 13 11 106 3 (3) 118 14 9 107 13 14
Seretide/Advair 63 21 15 54 5 – 59 17 11 53 18 20
Flixotide/Flovent 53 3 2 39 (3) (7) 43 4 (2) 43 5 8
Serevent 18 22 29 13 14 – 16 45 45 11 16 10
Flixonase/Flonase 24 23 9 14 14 17 14 3 (7) 17 (38) (39)
Central Nervous System 118 (10) (12) 110 (7) (13) 107 (15) (18) 109 6 5
Seroxat/Paxil 79 (13) (16) 71 (11) (14) 71 (13) (17) 72 11 9
Paxil IR 76 (16) (18) 69 (13) (17) 69 (15) (19) 71 10 8
Paxil CR 3 >100 >100 2 >100 – 2 >100 100 1 >100 >100
Wellbutrin 4 (29) (33) 5 (8) (29) 2 (78) (67) 4 (28) (33)
Wellbutrin IR, SR 4 (34) (33) 4 (18) (43) 1 (86) (83) 4 (36) (33)
Wellbutrin XL – – – 1 >(100) – 1 – – – – –
Imigran/Imitrex 12 (2) (14) 12 (2) (8) 13 (16) (13) 11 – –
Lamictal 11 14 – 12 12 9 11 10 – 11 11 10
Requip 2 23 – 2 43 100 2 39 100 1 35 –
Anti-virals 126 7 5 120 10 1 116 5 (1) 108 5 –
HIV 43 13 8 42 11 2 36 (4) (10) 36 12 6
Combivir 17 3 – 17 – (11) 16 (13) (11) 15 8 (6)
Trizivir 5 12 25 2 (2) (33) 4 5 – 4 52 33
Epivir 11 31 10 11 11 10 9 1 (10) 9 15 13
Ziagen 5 18 – 8 54 33 4 13 (20) 5 14 25
Retrovir 3 16 – 2 4 – 3 (8) – 2 (1) –
Agenerase,Lexiva 2 (10) 100 2 >100 100 – – – 1 (19) –
Herpes 53 5 – 49 2 – 50 4 (2) 48 13 12
Valtrex 31 18 11 29 19 16 27 15 13 25 27 25
Zovirax 22 (9) (12) 20 (15) (17) 23 (7) (15) 23 1 –
Zeffix 25 (4) (4) 24 7 (8) 26 10 4 22 (1) (12)
Anti-bacterials 127 (3) (7) 128 (1) (9) 128 3 (4) 121 4 (2)
Augmentin 42 (6) (13) 51 14 9 50 19 11 44 10 7
Augmentin IR 40 (5) (15) 49 12 7 49 17 9 43 7 5
Augmentin ES 2 (12) 100 1 >100 – 1 >100 >100 1 >100 >100
Augmentin XR – – – 1 >100 – – – – – – –
Zinnat/Ceftin 20 (3) (9) 19 (24) (30) 19 (8) (14) 18 10 (5)
Metabolic 69 23 19 68 35 28 75 53 42 54 29 23
Avandia, Avandamet 40 40 33 41 73 64 49 90 75 31 43 35
Vaccines 115 24 20 111 40 35 95 19 12 84 1 –
Hepatitis 19 21 27 16 (5) (11) 19 16 12 17 3 (6)
Infanrix/Pediarix 12 14 (8) 21 47 50 16 (16) (24) 17 – –
Oncology and emesis 22 2 (4) 22 (11) (19) 21 (2) (9) 20 (9) (9)
Zofran 18 1 (5) 17 (9) (11) 17 2 (11) 16 (1) –
Hycamtin 1 (9) – 2 15 – 2 (15) 100 1 (51) (67)
Cardiovascular and urogenital 33 22 18 27 15 4 26 9 – 22 15 10
Coreg 1 (52) (75) 2 (53) (60) 1 (47) (67) 3 (18) –
Levitra 1 40 – 3 47 50 3 >100 >100 1 – –
Avodart 2 >100 – – – – 1 >100 – – – –
Other 164 – (6) 143 (15) (21) 151 (15) (20) 159 (1) (8)
Zantac 36 (8) (8) 32 (14) (20) 32 (21) (26) 31 (7) (11)
Total 976 5 1 885 3 (4) 891 3 (4) 841 3 (1)
Pharmaceutical turnover includes co-promotion income.160 GlaxoSmithKline Financial record
Five year record
A record of financial performance is provided analysed in accordance with current reporting practice.
2004 2003 2002 2001 2000
Turnover by business segment £m £m £m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals 17,146 18,181 17,995 17,205 15,429
Consumer Healthcare 3,213 3,260 3,217 3,284 2,650
20,359 21,441 21,212 20,489 18,079
Pharmaceutical turnover by therapeutic area
Central nervous system 3,463 4,455 4,511 4,007 3,279
Respiratory 4,415 4,417 3,987 3,537 2,789
Anti-bacterials 1,561 1,815 2,210 2,604 2,472
Anti-virals 2,360 2,349 2,299 2,128 1,899
Metabolic 1,253 1,079 960 875 589
Vaccines 1,196 1,123 1,080 948 842
Oncology and emesis 934 1,001 977 838 710
Cardiovascular and urogenital 933 771 661 591 463
Others 1,031 1,171 1,310 1,677 1,939
Continuing business 17,146 18,181 17,995 17,205 14,982
Divested products – – – – 447
17,146 18,181 17,995 17,205 15,429
Pharmaceutical turnover by geographic area
USA 8,425 9,410 9,797 9,037 7,705
Europe 5,128 5,114 4,701 4,561 4,268
International:
Asia Pacific 1,162 1,140 1,100 1,047 975
Japan 770 753 712 741 832
Latin America 581 597 606 790 682
Middle East, Africa 669 693 652 611 585
Canada 411 474 427 418 382
International 3,593 3,657 3,497 3,607 3,456
17,146 18,181 17,995 17,205 15,429
Pharmaceutical turnover in2004and 2003 includes co-promotion income.
Consumer Healthcare sales
OTC medicines 1,489 1,556 1,586 1,603 1,454
Oral care 1,088 1,082 1,052 1,106 642
Nutritional healthcare 636 622 579 575 535
Continuing business 3,213 3,260 3,217 3,284 2,631
Divested products – – – – 19
3,213 3,260 3,217 3,284 2,650Financial recordGlaxoSmithKline 161
2003 2002 2001 2000
2004 (restated) (restated) (restated) (restated)
Statutory results £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 20,359 21,441 21,212 20,489 18,079
Operating profit 6,090 6,376 5,569 4,701 4,836
Profit before taxation 6,119 6,313 5,524 4,484 6,136
Earnings (profit attributable to shareholders) 4,302 4,478 3,930 3,027 4,204
Dividends (2,402) (2,374) (2,346) (2,356) (2,097)
Retained profit 1,900 2,104 1,584 671 2,107
Basic earnings per share (p) 75.0 77.1 66.5 49.9 69.3
Diluted earnings per share 74.8 76.9 66.3 49.5 68.5
Weighted average number of shares in issues:
Basic 5,736 5,806 5,912 6,064 6,065
Diluted 5,748 5,824 5,934 6,116 6,134
Return on capital employed (per cent) 101.9 120.8 110.6 75.6 94.0
Return on capital employed is calculated as statutory profit before taxation as a percentage of average capital employed over the year.
Merger, restructuring and disposal of subsidiaries
Manufacturing and other restructuring – (83) (121) (162) (171)
Merger costs and product divestments – (286) (840) (1,069) 895
Other items – (21) (50) (421) (22)
(Loss)/profit before taxation – (390) (1,011) (1,652) 702
(Loss)/profit attributable to shareholders – (281) (712) (1,330) 452
Business performance results
Turnover 20,359 21,441 21,212 20,489 18,079
R&D expenditure 2,839 2,770 2,732 2,555 2,510
per cent of sales 14% 13% 13% 12% 14%
Trading profit 6,150 6,904 6,712 6,041 5,061
per cent of sales 30% 32% 32% 30% 28%
Net interest payable (203) (161) (141) (88) (182)
Profit before taxation 6,119 6,703 6,535 6,157 5,362
Adjusted earnings (profit attributable to shareholders) 4,302 4,759 4,642 4,371 3,686
During the years 2000 to 2003, business performance was the primary performance measure used by management and was presented
after excluding merger items, integration and restructuring costs and disposals of business. Management believesthat exclusion of these
items providesa better comparison of the way in which the business was managed and givesan indication of the performance of the
Group in terms of those elements of revenue and expenditure which local management was able to influence. This information, which is
provided in addition to the statutory results prepared under UKGAAP, is given to assist shareholders to gain a clearer understanding of the
underlying performance of the business and to increase comparability for the periods presented. Statutory results include these items.For
2004, withthe completion of these programmes, the Group is reporting results on a statutory basis only.
2004 2003 2002 2001 2000
Amounts in accordance with US GAAP £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 19,986 21,117 21,212 20,489 9,559
Net income/(loss) 2,732 2,420 413 (143) (5,228)
Basic net income/(loss) per share (pence) 47.6 41.7p 7.0p (2.4)p (145.6)p
Diluted net income/(loss) per share (pence) 47.5 41.6p 7.0p (2.4)p (145.6)p
The information below presents US GAAP net income/(loss) and net income/(loss) per share as if the results for the years ended
31st December 2000 and 2001 were adjusted to reverse the amortisation expense for goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets,
that is, as if SFAS142 had also applied in those years.
Adjusted net income/(loss) 1,456 (4,658)
Adjusted basic net income/(loss) per share (pence) 24.0p (129.7)p
Adjusted diluted net income/(loss) per share (pence) 23.8p (129.7)p162 GlaxoSmithKline Financial record
Balance sheet
2003 2002 2001 2000
2004 (restated) (restated) (restated) (restated)
Net assets £m £m £m £m £m
Fixed assets 8,945 8,575 8,752 8,984 8,005
Other assets and liabilities (759) (1,123) (1,770) (1,538) (881)
Net operating assets 8,186 7,452 6,982 7,446 7,124
Net debt (1,984) (1,648) (2,335) (2,101) (611)
Net assets 6,202 5,804 4,647 5,345 6,513
Capital employed
Share capital and share premium 1,788 1,751 1,730 1,713 1,586
Other reserves 4,137 3,308 2,110 2,770 3,683
Equity shareholders’ funds 5,925 5,059 3,840 4,483 5,269
Minority interests 277 745 807 862 1,244
6,202 5,804 4,647 5,345 6,513
Capital expenditure (tangible fixed assets) 993 870 1,027 1,113 1,018
2004 2003 2002 2001 2000
Amounts in accordance with US GAAP £m £m £m £m £m
Total assets 55,841 56,400 57,671 61,341 65,786
Net assets 34,429 34,861 35,729 40,969 46,239
Shareholders’ equity 34,042 34,116 34,922 40,107 44,995
Number of employees 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000
USA 23,782 24,036 23,527 23,613 22,745
Europe 44,679 44,559 46,028 46,508 45,929
International:
Asia Pacific 16,109 18,373 17,289 18,364 19,058
Japan 2,965 2,842 2,952 2,985 3,165
Latin America 5,603 5,916 6,876 7,800 7,704
Middle East, Africa 5,134 3,400 5,973 6,344 7,133
Canada 1,747 1,793 1,854 1,856 1,783
International 31,558 32,324 34,944 37,349 38,843
100,019 100,919 104,499 107,470 107,517
Manufacturing 31,143 32,459 35,503 36,849 35,681
Selling 44,646 43,978 43,994 44,499 43,325
Administration 9,193 9,550 10,378 11,081 11,980
Research and development 15,037 14,932 14,624 15,041 16,531
100,019 100,919 104,499 107,470 107,517
The number of employees is the number of permanent employed staff at the end of the financial period. It excludes those employees who
are employed and managed by GlaxoSmithKline on a contract basis.
Exchange rates
As a guide to holders of ADRs, the following tables set out, for the periods indicated, information on the exchange rate of US dollars
for sterling as reported by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (‘noon buying rate’).
Average 1.84 1.63 1.51 1.44 1.51
The average rate for the year is calculated as the average of the noon buying rates on the last day of each month during the year.
Feb Jan Dec Nov Oct Sept
2005 2005 2004 2004 2004 2004
High 1.91 1.91 1.95 1.91 1.84 1.81
Low 1.86 1.86 1.91 1.83 1.78 1.77
The noon buying rate on25thFebruary 2005 was £1=US$1.91.GlaxoSmithKline 163
Financial information under International Financial Reporting Standards
(IFRS)
Background • Financial instruments: Financial instruments in the comparative
periods to be presented in the Annual Report 2005 (i.e. 2004
The IFRS project
and 2003) are recorded on the existing UK GAAP basis, rather
In June 2002, the Council of the European Union adopted a
than in accordance with IAS 32‘Financial Instruments:
Regulation requiring listed companies in its Member States to
Disclosure and Presentation’and IAS 39‘Financial Instruments:
prepare their consolidated financial statements in accordance
Recognition and Measurement’(see below).
with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) from 2005.
The first GlaxoSmithKline Annual Report prepared under IFRS The IFRSfinancial informationhas been prepared on the basis
will be that for the year ending 31st December 2005. The first of taking these exemptions.
financial results announcement prepared in accordance with IFRS
will be that for the first quarter of 2005. Financial instruments
GlaxoSmithKline intends to adopt IAS39 in full. However,one
The Group’s project to convert its financial reporting from UK
of the exemptions available under IFRS 1 relaxes the requirement
GAAP to IFRS has now been completed, subject to any changes
for comparative informationpresented in the Annual Report 2005
in standard and pronouncements. A training programmehas
to comply with IAS 32 and IAS 39.GlaxoSmithKline intends to
been rolled out to all finance staff worldwide and the adjusted
take advantage of this exemption,and so,in 2003 and 2004,
historical data, which will provide the comparative information
financial instruments willbe accounted for and presented on a
under IFRS in 2005, has been prepared.
UK GAAP basis.
The unaudited consolidated results of GlaxoSmithKline plc
On 1st January 2005 therewasan adjustment to the opening
converted from the currentUK GAAPbasis onto an IFRS basis
balance sheet to reflect the movements from the UK GAAP
for2003 and 2004 are presented on pages170to173. As 2003
carrying values to the IAS 32and IAS 39 values, which for many
willbethe earliest year for which full IFRS financial statements
financial instruments will be fair value.
willbe presented in the Annual Report 2005, the transition
date to IFRS for GlaxoSmithKline is 1st January 2003. Normally The financial instruments concerned are:
accounting changes of this nature would require full retrospective
• Held at fair value under IFRS with movements recorded in
application, but under the IFRS transitional rules, certain
equity:
adjustments onlyhave to be applied with effect from the
– Equity investments
transition date of1st January 2003.
– Liquid investments
– Derivatives classified as cash flow hedging instruments
Basis of preparation of data
The IFRS financial informationhas been prepared on the basis • Held at fair value under IFRS with movements recorded in
ofall IFRS and Standing Interpretations Committee (SIC) and the income statement:
International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) – Equity collar linked to the Group’s investment in Quest
interpretations issued by the IASB effective for 2005 reporting. DiagnosticsInc.
– Put and call options linked to the Group’s strategic
GlaxoSmithKline has chosen to adopt the IASB’s amendments to
alliance with TheravanceInc.
IAS19, Employee Benefits, early. This permits actuarial gains and
– Other derivatives not classified as hedging instruments,
losses, differences between the expected and actual returns and
including embedded derivatives
the effect of changes in actuarial assumptions to be recognised
– Derivatives classified as fair value hedges together with
in the Statement ofrecognisedincome andexpense.
the hedged element of the relevant asset or liability
The financial information presentedunder IFRSis unaudited.
• Presentation differences only:
– Non-equity minority interests (repaid during 2004).
IFRS1exemptions
IFRS1,First-Time Adoption of International Financial Reporting If the IAS39 valuationrules had been applied in 2004 there
Standards,permits those companies adopting IFRS for the first would have been a charge to profit before tax,the largest
time to take some exemptions from the full requirements of IFRS elements of which arise from the Quest collar (£42million;
in the transition period.GlaxoSmithKline intends to take the 2003 – £42 million) and the Theravance put and call options
following key exemptions: (£53million; 2003 –nil). Valuationsare inherently unpredictable
and changes in the fair values of financial instruments could
• Business combinations: Business combinations prior to the
havea material impact on the future resultsand financial
transition date (1st January 2003) have not been restated
positionof GlaxoSmithKline.
onto an IFRS basis
• Employee benefits: All cumulative actuarial gains and losses
have been recognised in equity at the transition date
• Share-based payments: IFRS 2,Share-based Payment,applies
to equity instruments, such as share optionsgranted since
7th November 2002, but GlaxoSmithKline has elected to
adopt full retrospective application of the standard164 GlaxoSmithKlineFinancialinformation under IFRS
IFRS accounting policies Foreign currency transactions
Foreign currency transactions by Group companies are booked
The following IFRS accounting policies are expected to be applied
inlocal currency at the exchange rate ruling on the date of
by GlaxoSmithKline plc in its consolidatedffinancial statements for
transaction. Foreign currency assets and liabilities are retranslated
2005.
into local currency at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet
date. Exchange differences areincluded inthe income statement.
Consolidation
The consolidated Financial statements include:
Revenue
• the assets and liabilities, and the results and cash flows, Revenue is recognised in the income statement when goods or
of the company and its subsidiaries, includingESOPTrusts; services are supplied or made available to external customers
• the Group’s share of the net assets and results of joint against orders received and when title and risk of loss passes to
ventures and associates. the customer. Turnover represents net invoice value after the
deduction of discounts and allowances givenand accruals for
The Financial statements ofundertakings consolidated are madeup
estimated future rebates and returns. The methodology and
to 31st December.
assumptions used to estimate rebates and returns are monitored
Entities over which the Group has the ability to exercise control are and adjusted regularly in the light of contractual and historical
accounted for as subsidiaries;where the Group has the ability to information and past experience. Turnover also includes co-
exercise joint control, they are accounted for as joint ventures, and promotion income where the Group records its share of the
where the Group has the ability to exercise significant influence, revenue but no related cost of sales. Value added tax and other
they are accounted for as associates. sales taxes are excluded from revenue.
Interests acquired in entities are consolidated from the effective
Expenditure
date of acquisition and interests sold are consolidated upto the
Expenditure is recognised in respect of goods and services received
date of disposal.
when supplied in accordance with contractual terms. Provision is
Transactions and balances between subsidiaries are eliminated; made when an obligation exists for a future liability in respect of
no profit is taken on sales between subsidiaries or on sales to joint a past event and where the amount of the obligation can be
ventures and associates until the products are sold to customers reliably estimated. Advertising and promotion expenditure is
outside the Group.Deferred tax relief on unrealised intra-Group charged to the income statement as incurred. Shipment costs on
profit is accounted for only to the extent that it is considered intercompany transfers are charged to cost of sales; distribution
recoverable. costs on sales to customers are included in selling, general and
administrative expenditure. Restructuring costs are recognised in
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of interestsin subsidiaries, joint
respect of the direct expenditures of a business reorganisation
ventures and associates, representing the excess of the purchase
where the plans are sufficiently detailed and well advanced, and
consideration over the Group’s share of the fair values of the
where appropriate communication to those affected has been
identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired,
undertaken at the balance sheet date.
is capitalised asa separate item in the case of subsidiaries and as
part of the cost of investment in the case of joint ventures and
Research and development
associates. Goodwill is denominated in the currency of the
Research and development expenditure is charged to the income
operation acquired. In the case of acquisitions prior to 1998,
statement in the period in which it is incurred. Development
goodwill was written off directly to equity; on a subsequent
expenditure iscapitalised when the criteria for recognising an asset
disposal of assets from such acquisitions, any related goodwill
aremet,usually at the point of regulatory filing in a major market.
remains in equity and is not charged to the consolidated income
Property, plant and equipmentused for research and development
statement.
isdepreciated in accordance with the Group’s policy.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates and joint ventures
are incorporated into the consolidated financial statements using Environmental expenditure
the equity method of accounting. Environmental expenditure related to existing conditions resulting
from past or current operations and from which no current or
Assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint
future benefit is discernible is charged to the income statement.
ventures including related goodwill, are translated into sterling at
The Grouprecognisesits liability on a site-by-site basiswhen itcan
rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. The results and
be reliablyestimated. This liability includes the Group’sportion of
cash flows of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures
the total costs and also a portion of other potentially responsible
are translated into sterling using average rates of exchange.
parties’ costs when it is probable that they will not be able to
Exchange adjustments arising when the opening net assets and
satisfy their respective shares of the clean-up obligation.Recoveries
the profits for theyear retained by overseas subsidiaries, associates
of reimbursements are recorded as assets when virtually certain.
and joint ventures are translated into sterling, less exchange
differences arising on related foreign currency borrowings which
hedge the Group’s net investment in these operations, are taken
to a separate component of equity.
When translating into sterling theassets, liabilities, results and
cash flows of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures
which are reported in currencies of hyper-inflationary economies,
adjustments aremade to reflect current price levels. Any loss on
net monetary assetsis charged to the consolidated income
statement.Financial information under IFRSGlaxoSmithKline 165
IFRS accounting policies continued Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment (PP&E) is stated at the cost of
Pensions and other post-employmentbenefits
purchase or construction less provisions for depreciation and
The costs of providing pensions under defined benefit schemes are
impairment. Financing costs are not capitalised.
calculated using the projected unit credit method and spread over
the period during which benefit is expected to be derived from the Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost of PP&E, excluding
employees’ services,in accordance with the advice of qualified freehold land, using the straight-line basis over its expected useful
actuaries. Pension obligations are measured as the present value life. The normal expected useful lives of the major categories of
of estimated future cash flows discounted at rates reflecting the PP&E are reviewed annually and are:
yields of high quality corporate bonds. Pension scheme assets are
measured at fair value at the balance sheet date. Actuarial gains Freehold buildings 20 to 50 years
and losses, differences between the expected and actualreturns, Leasehold land and Lease term or 20 to 50 years
andthe effect of changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised buildings
in the Statement ofrecognisedincome andexpensein the Plant and machinery 10 to 20 years
year they arise. Fixtures and equipment 3 to 10 years
The Group’s contributions to defined contribution plans are Ondisposal of PP&E, the cost and related accumulated
charged to the income statement as incurred. depreciation and impairments are removed from the financial
statements and the net amount, less any proceeds, is taken to
The costs of other post-employment liabilities are calculated in a
the income statement.
similar way to defined benefit pension schemes and spread over
the period during which benefit is expected to be derived from
Leases
the employees’ services,in accordance with the advice of qualified
Leasing agreements which transfer to the Group substantially
actuaries.
all the benefits and risks of ownership of an asset are treated as
finance leases, as if the asset had been purchased outright. The
Legal and other disputes
assets are included inPP&E or computer software and the capital
Provision is made foranticipated settlement costswhere a
elements of the leasing commitments are shown as obligations
reasonable estimate can be made of the likely outcome of legal or
under finance leases. Assets held under finance leases are
other disputes against the Group. In addition provision is made for
depreciated on a basis consistent with similar owned assets or
legalorother expensesarising fromclaims receivedorother
the lease term if shorter. The interest element of the lease rental
disputes.In respect of product liability claims related to products
is included in the income statement. All other leases are operating
where there is sufficient history of claims made and settlements, an
leases and the annual rentals are included in the income statement
“incurred but not reported” (IBNR) actuarial technique is used to
on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
determine a reasonable estimate of the Group’s exposure to
unasserted claims for those products and a provision is made on
Goodwill
that basis. No provision is made for other unasserted claims or
Goodwill is stated at cost lessimpairments. Goodwill is deemed to
where an obligation exists under a dispute but it is not possible to
have an indefinite useful life and is tested for impairment annually.
make a reasonable estimate. Costs associated with claims made by
the Group against third parties are charged to the income Where the fair value of the interest acquired in an entity’s assets,
statementas they are incurred. liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the consideration paid,
this excess is recognised immediately as a gain in the income
Employee share plans statement.
Incentives in the form of shares are provided to employees under
share option and share award schemes. Theseoptions and awards
are fair valued at their grant datesand the cost is charged to the
income statement over the relevant vesting periods.
TheGroupprovides finance to ESOPTrusts to purchase company
shares on the open market to meet theobligation to provide
shares when employees exercise their optionsor awards.Costs
of running the ESOP Trusts are charged to the income statement.
Shares held by the ESOPTrusts are deducted from other reserves
and held at the value ofthe proceeds receivable from employees
on exercise. If there is deemed to be apermanent impairment in
value this is reflected bya transfer toretained earnings.166 GlaxoSmithKlineFinancial information under IFRS
IFRS accounting policies continued Inventories
Inventories are included in the financial statements at the lower
Intangible fixed assets
of cost (including raw materials, direct labour, other direct costs
Intangible assets are stated at cost lessprovisionsfor amortisation
and related production overheads)andnet realisable value.
and impairments.
Costis generally determined on a first in, first out basis.
Licences, patents, know-how and marketing rights separately
acquired or acquired as part of a business combination are Taxation
amortised over their estimated useful lives from the time they Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on
are available for use. The estimated useful lives for determining temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets
the amortisation charge are reviewed annually, andtake into and liabilities and their carrying amountsin the financial
account the estimated time it takes to bring the compounds or statements. Deferred tax assets are recognisedto the extent
products to market. Anydevelopment costsincurred by the Group that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available
andassociated withacquired licences, patents, know-how or against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
marketing rights are written off to the income statement
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on
whenincurred, unless the criteria for recognition of an internally
investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, except
generated intangible asset are met.
where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can
Brands are valued independently as part of the fair value of be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference
businesses acquired from third parties where the brand has a will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
value which is substantial and long-term and where the brands
Deferred tax is provided using rates of tax that have been enacted
can be sold separately from the rest of the businesses acquired.
or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. Deferred tax
Brands areamortised over theirestimated useful lives, except
liabilities and assets are not discounted.
where it is considered that the useful economic lifeis indefinite.
Prior to 1998, acquired minor brands and similar intangibles were Derivative fifnancial instruments and hedging activities
eliminated in the Group balance sheet against reserves in the year Derivative financial instruments are used to manage exposure to
of acquisition. market risks from treasury operations. The principal derivative
instruments used by GlaxoSmithKlineareforeign currency swaps,
The costs of acquiring and developing computer software for
interest rateswaps and forward foreign exchange contracts.
internal use and internet sites for external use are capitalised as
The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments
intangible fixed assets where the software or site supports a
for trading or speculative purposes.
significant business system and the expenditure leads to the
creation of a durable asset. ERP systems software is amortised Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised in the
over seven years and other computer software over three to balance sheet at cost and thenremeasured at subsequent
five years. reporting dates tofair value.Hedging derivatives are classified
on inception as fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or net
Impairment ofnon-currentassets investment hedges.
The carrying values of allnon-currentassets are reviewed for
Changes in the fair value of derivativesdesignatedas fair value
impairment when there is an indication that the assets might
hedges are recorded in the income statement,withthe changes
be impaired. Additionally, goodwill, intangible assets with
in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability.
indefinite useful livesand intangible assets which are not yet
available forusearetestedfor impairment annually. Any Changes in the fair value of derivativesdesignatedas cash flow
provision for impairment is charged to the income statement hedges are recognised in equity. Amounts deferred in equity are
in the year concerned. transferred to the income statement in line withthe hedged
forecasttransaction.
Investments in joint ventures and associates
Hedges of net investmentsin foreign entities are accounted for
Investments in joint ventures and associates are carried in the
ina similar wayto cash flow hedges.
consolidated balance sheet at the Group’s share oftheir net assets
at date of acquisition and of their post-acquisition retained profits Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do
or losses together with any goodwill arising on the acquisition. not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in
the income statement.
Available-for-sale investments
Available-for-sale investments are initially recorded at cost and Debt instruments
then remeasured at subsequent reporting dates to fair value. Unhedgeddebt instruments are stated at the amount of net
Unrealised gains and losses on available-for-sale investments are proceeds,adjustedto amortise the issue costsof the debtover
recognised directly in equity. On disposal or impairment of the itsterm.
investments, the gains and losses in equity are recycled into the
income statement. Equity investments are recorded in non-current
assets unless they are expected to be sold within one year.Financial information under IFRSGlaxoSmithKline 167
IFRS adjustments The adjustment for share-based payments is expected to reduce
to a more normal level of £200-£250 million by 2005. The
Asummary of the principal differences between UK GAAP and
considerably higher charge in 2004 and 2003 arises from two
IFRS as they apply to GlaxoSmithKlineisset out below and the
main factors. Relatively few share options were granted during
financial effect is shown on pages170to173.
2000 when the GW/SB merger was being finalised, but then in
Customer allowances 2001 there was a full “catch-up” grant early in the year followed
This adjustment isa reclassification between turnover and by the normal annual grant in November 2001.In addition, the
expenses with no profit or cash flow effect. IFRS has no detailed grants in 2001 were made at an average share price in excess of
rules in relation to when certain marketing and promotional £18. These share options will become exercisable in 2004 and
expenditure should be deducted from turnover rather than therefore fall out of the charge in 2005, when the charge will
recorded as an expense. However,these rules do exist under US reflect more current share prices and more normal grant levels.
GAAP in EITF 01-09,Accounting for Consideration Given by a
Vendor to a Customer, which requires most marketing, advertising, Coregcapitalisation and amortisation
and promotion payments made to customers to be deducted from The North American rights to Coregwere acquired at the time of
turnover. This has the most significant impact inthe Consumer the GW/SB merger as partial consideration for the required disposal
Healthcare business where payments to large retailers for in-store of Kytril to Roche. Under UK GAAP this was accounted for as
advertising, preferential shelf-space, product listings etc. are an exchange of assets with no value being attributed to Coreg
commonplace. on the balance sheet. IFRS, however, requires the acquired rights
to Coregto be added to intangible assets at their fair value on
GlaxoSmithKline believes that this reflects best practice in revenue
the date of acquisition of $400 million, and then amortised over
recognitionandhence, in the absence of detailed guidance under
their remaining useful life of eight years. This adjustment reduces
IFRS, has decided to adopt a revenue recognition policy under
2004 profit before tax by £27 million (2003 – £31 million) and
IFRS in line with EITF 01-09. Therefore going forward there would
EPS by 0.3 pence (2003 – 0.3 pence).
be no difference between turnover reported under IFRS and
turnover reported under US GAAP. This adjustment has no impact
Other intangible assets amortisation
on profit before tax or EPS.
Under UK GAAP, GlaxoSmithKline amortises intangible assets over
their estimated expected useful lives from acquisition, which can
Share-based payments
be up to a maximum of 15 years. IFRS only permits amortisation to
The present UK GAAP approach to share-based payments is to
commence when the asset becomes available for use, with annual
record any intrinsic loss on grant suffered by the company. This
impairment testing required before this point. GlaxoSmithKline has
means that for share options granted at the market price, there
determined that the point at which amortisation of product-related
is no charge to the income statement. Where shares or options
assets commences under IFRS will normally be regulatory approval.
are granted at no cost to the employee (e.g. under long-term
The majority of GlaxoSmithKline’s intangible assets relates to the
incentive plans) the income statement is charged with an amount
acquisition of rights to compounds in development and so has not
equal to the market price on the date of the award, spread over
reached the point at which amortisation commences. This has led
the performance period (usually three years).
to a reduction in the amortisation charge in the periods presented,
IFRS 2, Share-based Payment, and its UKGAAP equivalent FRS20, which is likely to reverse in the future as these compounds reach
Share-based Payment, both of which came into force in 2005, regulatory approval and amortisation is then charged over a shorter
requirethe fair value of the equity instruments issued tobe period. Profit before tax in 2004 increases by £43 million
charged to the income statement. Forshare awards granted to (2003 – £43 million) and EPS by 0.5 pence (2003 – 0.5 pence).
senior executives, although the calculation is different, the resultant
charge is not materially different from that under UK GAAP. Goodwill amortisation
The major difference arises in respect of share options;of the UK GAAP requires goodwill to be amortised over its estimated
£368 million adjustmentin 2003,some £350 million arises from expected useful life, which GlaxoSmithKline has determined
the grant of share options at market price to approximately to be normally no longer than 20 years. Under IFRS, however,
12,000 employees. GlaxoSmithKline has chosen to recognise all goodwillis considered to have an indefinite life and so is not
unvested options and awards retrospectively. amortised,but is subject to annual impairment testing. This
adjustment therefore reverses the goodwill amortisation charged
GlaxoSmithKline receives a tax credit, as appropriate, which relates
under UK GAAP, including that recorded in the profit on share
to share options and awards when exercised, based on the gains
of associates line relating to the acquisition of the Group’s interest
theholders makeand dependant on the tax rules in the country
in Quest DiagnosticsInc. Under the business combinations
in which the deduction is claimed. The deferred tax asset
exemption of IFRS 1, goodwill previously written off direct to
represents an estimate of future tax relief for this gain and is
reserves under UK GAAP is not recycled to the income statement
based on the potential gains available to the option or award
on the disposal or part-disposal of the subsidiary or associate,
holders at the balance sheet date. The movement in deferred
as it would be under UK GAAP. The adjustment increases 2004
tax asset from one balance sheet to the nextmayresultin either a
profit before tax by£38 million (2003 – £26 million) and EPS by
tax credit or a tax charge recorded in the income statement.
0.7 pence(2003 – 0.4 pence).
This adjustment reduces profit before tax in 2004 by £309 million
(2003 – £368 million), earnings by £314 million
(2003 – £344 million)and EPS by 5.5 pence (2003 – 5.9 pence).168 GlaxoSmithKlineFinancial information under IFRS
IFRS adjustments continued Deferred tax on intercompany profit
Under UK GAAP,deferred tax on the provision for intercompany
Pensions and other post-employment benefits
profit held in inventory is calculated at the supplying company’s
GlaxoSmithKline accounts under UK GAAP for pensions and other
effective tax rate. IFRS, however, takes a balance sheet approach
post-employment benefits (OPEBs) in accordance with SSAP 24,
to the recognition of deferred tax which results in the tax rate of
which spreads the costs of providing the benefits over the
the company holding the inventory at the balance sheet date
estimated average service lives of the employees. The additional
being applied to the provision. If the proportions of the Group’s
FRS 17 disclosures give the pension fund surpluses and deficits
inventory held in specific locations change significantly from one
and the liabilities for OPEBs based on the valuation methodologies
balance sheet date to the next there could be a significant change
required by that Standard.
in the value of the deferred tax asset, which is reflected through
IAS 19,Employee Benefits,takes a similar valuation approach to the tax charge for the year.
FRS 17, and in accordance with the transitional provisions ofIFRS1
the surpluses and deficits have been recognised on the balance Other adjustments
sheet at the transition date of 1st January 2003. In addition, There are a number of other minor adjustments and
following anamendmentto IAS19 issued by the IASB in December reclassifications, including:
2004, it is permitted to recognise any movements in the surpluses
• Computer software, which is recorded as an intangible asset
or deficits immediately in balance sheets, but outside the income
unless it forms an integral part of the operating system of a
statement, in a similar way to FRS17. This means that, in most
tangible fixed asset
cases, the balance sheet reflects the full surplus or deficit positions
• Deferred tax on brands acquired with a company, where if
of the funds.
there is a difference between the fair value of the brands on
The Group’s policy is to charge out to the operating businesses acquisition and thetaxvalue, a taxable temporary difference
the service cost element of the pension charge, which then gets arises
reported withincost of sales,selling, general and administrative • Cash equivalents reclassification, where liquid investments
expenditure orresearch and development as appropriate, but not with maturities of less than three months at acquisition are
to charge out the element related to the funding deficit, which included within cash and cash equivalents,and
is all reported in Selling, general and administrative expenditure. • Provisions reclassification,where the elements of provisions
Under IAS 19, the service cost element of the total charge is expected to be paid within one year of the balance sheetdate,
considerably higher than under SSAP 24 and the funding deficit with the exception of pensions and OPEBs, are presented
element lower. This leads to an additional reclassification within current liabilities.
adjustment between the income statement expense headings.
Cash flow statement
In the USA, the recently enacted Medicare Prescription Drug,
The move from UKGAAP to IFRS does not change any of the cash
Improvement and Modernization Act is expected to lead to
flows of the Group. The IFRS cash flow format is similar to UK
payments being received by GlaxoSmithKline from the US
GAAP but presents various cash flows in different categories and
Government in respect of its employee healthcare plans. At
in a different order from the UKGAAP cash flow statement. All
present there is no clear consensus on how these receipts should
of the IFRS accounting adjustments net out within cash generated
be accounted for under IAS 19. GlaxoSmithKline has recognised
from operations except for the intangible assets reclassification
these receipts asactuarial adjustmentsand so the impact of them
and the inclusion of liquid investments with a maturity of less
is recognised in the balance sheet.This treatment would change if
than three months on acquisition, together with related exchange
guidance is issued which requires a different accounting treatment.
adjustments,within cash and cash equivalents under IFRS.
The overall impact of the adjustments to pensions and OPEBs
in 2004 is a decrease in profit before tax of £36 million
(2003 – increase of £11 million) and a decrease in EPS of
0.4 pence (2003 – nil).
Share of profits of associates
Under UKGAAP the share of profits of associates is reported
within profit before tax for the Group. However, IFRS requires
this share of profits tobe the net profit attributable to the Group,
i.e. after interest, tax and minority interests of the associate. This
leads to a reclassification adjustment removing the share of the
associates’ interest, tax and minority interests from those lines in
the income statement and netting them all together in the share
of profitsof associates line. This adjustment reduces 2004 profit
beforetax by £42 million (2003 – £42 million) but does not
affect EPS.Financial information under IFRSGlaxoSmithKline 169
IFRS pharmaceutical turnover – total Group
12 months 2004 12 months 2003 Q4 2004 Q3 2004 Q2 2004 Q1 2004
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Respiratory 4,394 4,390 1,167 1,065 1,080 1,082
Seretide/Advair,
Flixotide/Flovent, Serevent 3,408 3,328 914 827 847 820
Seretide/Advair 2,441 2,192 662 604 598 577
Flixotide/Flovent 618 704 167 141 156 154
Serevent 349 432 85 82 93 89
Flixonase/Flonase 578 594 143 145 133 157
Central Nervous System 3,462 4,446 836 835 877 914
Seroxat/Paxil 1,063 1,877 242 246 284 291
Paxil IR 667 1,490 144 144 189 190
Paxil CR 396 387 98 102 95 101
Wellbutrin 751 953 164 173 193 221
Wellbutrin IR, SR 284 883 30 45 76 133
Wellbutrin XL 467 70 134 128 117 88
Imigran/Imitrex 682 759 177 175 158 172
Lamictal 677 549 181 172 171 153
Requip 116 98 32 29 29 26
Anti-virals 2,359 2,345 605 597 595 562
HIV 1,462 1,505 374 372 368 348
Combivir 570 588 146 144 141 139
Trizivir 322 375 75 79 87 81
Epivir 294 293 73 73 77 71
Ziagen 155 167 38 42 37 38
Retrovir 43 45 11 11 11 10
Agenerase, Lexiva 63 31 21 18 15 9
Herpes 718 668 183 179 182 174
Valtrex 571 498 146 147 145 133
Zovirax 147 170 37 32 37 41
Zeffix 130 129 34 33 33 30
Anti-bacterials 1,547 1,800 393 350 382 422
Augmentin 708 825 170 156 178 204
Augmentin IR 533 584 135 125 134 139
Augmentin ES 74 135 5 14 22 33
Augmentin XR 101 106 30 17 22 32
Zinnat/Ceftin 205 232 56 42 48 59
Metabolic 1,251 1,077 324 320 338 269
Avandia/Avandamet 1,114 929 287 284 306 237
Vaccines 1,194 1,121 349 328 278 239
Hepatitis 405 417 109 101 105 90
Infanrix/Pediarix 356 336 99 95 86 76
Oncology and emesis 934 1,000 229 246 237 222
Zofran 763 774 190 201 192 180
Hycamtin 99 110 24 26 25 24
Cardiovascular and urogenital 932 770 280 232 220 200
Coreg 432 361 115 110 113 94
Levitra 49 37 12 11 9 17
Avodart 64 19 23 17 14 10
Other 1,027 1,165 292 229 248 258
Zantac 273 328 69 66 70 68
Total 17,100 18,114 4,475 4,202 4,255 4,168
Pharmaceutical turnover includes co-promotion income.170 GlaxoSmithKlineFinancial information under IFRS
IFRSConsolidatedincome statement– statutory
12 months 2004 12 months 2003
UK GAAP Adjustments IFRS Growth UKGAAP Adjustments IFRS
£m £m £m £% CER% £m £m £m
Turnover 20,359 (373) 19,986 (5) 1 21,441 (371) 21,070
Cost of sales (4,309) (51) (4,360) (5) – (4,544) (33) (4,577)
Selling, general and administrative expenditure (7,061) 156 (6,905) (7) (4) (7,597) 145 (7,452)
Research and development expenditure (2,839) (65) (2,904) 1 8 (2,791) (74) (2,865)
Operating costs (14,209) 40 (14,169) (14,932) 38 (14,894)
Trading profit 6,150 (333) 5,817 (6) 5 6,509 (333) 6,176
Other operatingincome/(expense) (60) (1) (61) (133) 7 (126)
Operating profit 6,090 (334) 5,756 (5) 6 6,376 (326) 6,050
Share of profits/(losses) of joint ventures
and associates 95 (35) 60 93 (36) 57
Disposal of interests in associates 138 11 149 – – –
Disposal of businesses (1) 1 – 5 – 5
Profit before interest 6,322 (357) 5,965 6,474 (362) 6,112
Financecosts, net (203) 17 (186) (161) 8 (153)
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 6,119 (340) 5,779 (3) 9 6,313 (354) 5,959
Taxation (1,701) (56) (1,757) (1,729) 78 (1,651)
Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 4,418 (396) 4,022 (7) 4 4,584 (276) 4,308
Equity minority interests (114) 2 (112) (94) (1) (95)
Preference share dividends (2) – (2) (12) – (12)
Earnings (Profit attributable to shareholders) 4,302 (394) 3,908 (7) 4 4,478 (277) 4,201
Basic earnings per share 75.0p (6.9)p 68.1p (6) 6 77.1p (4.8)p 72.3p
IFRSConsolidatedincome statement– business performance
12 months 2004 12 months 2003
UK GAAP Adjustments IFRS Growth UKGAAP Adjustments IFRS
£m £m £m £% CER% £m £m £m
Turnover 20,359 (373) 19,986 (5) 1 21,441 (371) 21,070
Cost of sales (4,309) (51) (4,360) 3 9 (4,188) (33) (4,221)
Selling, general and administrative expenditure (7,061) 156 (6,905) (7) (3) (7,579) 145 (7,434)
Research and development expenditure (2,839) (65) (2,904) 2 9 (2,770) (74) (2,844)
Operating costs (14,209) 40 (14,169) (14,537) 38 (14,499)
Trading profit 6,150 (333) 5,817 (11) (1) 6,904 (333) 6,571
Other operatingincome/(expense) (60) (1) (61) (133) 7 (126)
Operating profit 6,090 (334) 5,756 (11) – 6,771 (326) 6,445
Share of profits/(losses) of joint ventures
and associates 95 (35) 60 93 (36) 57
Disposal of interests in associates 138 11 149 – – –
Disposal of businesses (1) 1 – – – –
Profit before interest 6,322 (357) 5,965 6,864 (362) 6,502
Financecosts, net (203) 17 (186) (161) 8 (153)
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 6,119 (340) 5,779 (9) 2 6,703 (354) 6,349
Taxation (1,701) (56) (1,757) (1,838) 78 (1,760)
Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 4,418 (396) 4,022 (12) (2) 4,865 (276) 4,589
Equity minority interests (114) 2 (112) (94) (1) (95)
Preference share dividends (2) – (2) (12) – (12)
Adjusted earnings (Profit attributableto
shareholders) 4,302 (394) 3,908 (13) (2) 4,759 (277) 4,482
Adjusted earnings per share 75.0p (6.9)p 68.1p (12) (1) 82.0p (4.8)p 77.2pFinancial information under IFRSGlaxoSmithKline 171
IFRSConsolidatedincome statement– statutory
Q4 2004 9 months 2004 Q3 2004
UKGAAP Adjustments IFRS UKGAAP Adjustments IFRS UKGAAP Adjustments IFRS
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 5,333 (97) 5,236 15,026 (276) 14,750 5,019 (95) 4,924
Cost of sales (1,158) (18) (1,176) (3,151) (33) (3,184) (1,096) (9)(1,105)
Selling, general and administrative expenditure (2,047) 42 (2,005) (5,014) 114 (4,900) (1,647) 54 (1,593)
Research and development expenditure (846) (7) (853) (1,993) (58) (2,051) (682) (14) (696)
Operating costs (4,051) 17 (4,034) (10,158) 23 (10,135) (3,425) 31 (3,394)
Trading profit 1,282 (80) 1,202 4,868 (253) 4,615 1,594 (64) 1,530
Other operating income/(expense) 40 (1) 39 (100) – (100) (33) – (33)
Operating profit 1,322 (81) 1,241 4,768 (253) 4,515 1,561 (64) 1,497
Share of profits/(losses) of joint ventures and
associates 23 (7) 16 72 (28) 44 22 (8) 14
Disposal of interests in associates 97 7 104 41 4 45 – – –
Disposal of business (1) 1 – – – – – – –
Profit before interest 1,441 (80) 1,361 4,881 (277) 4,604 1,583 (72) 1,511
Financecosts, net (51) 12 (39) (152) 5 (147) (61) 1 (60)
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 1,390 (68) 1,322 4,729 (272) 4,457 1,522 (71) 1,451
Taxation (401) (120) (521) (1,300) 64 (1,236) (418) 14 (404)
Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 989 (188) 801 3,429 (208) 3,221 1,104 (57) 1,047
Equity minority interests (28) 1 (27) (86) 1 (85) (39) – (39)
Preference share dividends – – – (2) – (2) – – –
Earnings (Profit attributable to shareholders) 961 (187) 774 3,341 (207) 3,134 1,065 (57) 1,008
Basic earnings per share 16.8p (3.3)p 13.5p 58.2p (3.6)p 54.6p 18.7p (1.0)p 17.7p
IFRSConsolidatedincome statement– statutory
6 months 2004 Q2 2004 Q1 2004
UKGAAP Adjustments IFRS UKGAAP Adjustments IFRS UKGAAP Adjustments IFRS
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 10,007 (181) 9,826 5,064 (93) 4,971 4,943 (88) 4,855
Cost of sales (2,055) (24) (2,079) (1,031) (13) (1,044) (1,024) (11)(1,035)
Selling, general and administrative expenditure (3,367) 60 (3,307) (1,641) 37 (1,604) (1,726) 23 (1,703)
Research and development expenditure (1,311) (44) (1,355) (680) (16) (696) (631) (28) (659)
Operating costs (6,733) (8) (6,741) (3,352) 8 (3,344) (3,381) (16)(3,397)
Trading profit 3,274 (189) 3,085 1,712 (85) 1,627 1,562 (104) 1,458
Other operating income/(expense) (67) – (67) (102) – (102) 35 – 35
Operating profit 3,207 (189) 3,018 1,610 (85) 1,525 1,597 (104) 1,493
Share of profits/(losses) of joint ventures and
associates 50 (20) 30 28 (12) 16 22 (8) 14
Disposal of interests in associates 41 4 45 41 4 45 – – –
Profit before interest 3,298 (205) 3,093 1,679 (93) 1,586 1,619 (112) 1,507
Financecosts, net (91) 4 (87) (48) 2 (46) (43) 2 (41)
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 3,207 (201) 3,006 1,631 (91) 1,540 1,576 (110) 1,466
Taxation (882) 50 (832) (449) 23 (426) (433) 27 (406)
Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 2,325 (151) 2,174 1,182 (68) 1,114 1,143 (83) 1,060
Equity minority interests (47) 1 (46) (25) – (25) (22) 1 (21)
Preference share dividends (2) – (2) – – – (2) – (2)
Earnings (Profit attributable to shareholders) 2,276 (150) 2,126 1,157 (68) 1,089 1,119 (82) 1,037
Basic earnings per share 39.5p (2.6)p 36.9p 20.1p (1.2)p 18.9p 19.4p (1.4)p 18.0p172 GlaxoSmithKlineFinancial information under IFRS
IFRS Consolidated balance sheet 31st December 2004 31st December 2003
UKGAAP Adjustments IFRS UKGAAP Adjustments IFRS
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Property, plant and equipment 6,471 (274) 6,197 6,441 (285) 6,156
Goodwill 139 26 165 143 12 155
Other intangible assets 2,003 510 2,513 1,697 533 2,230
Investments in associates and joint ventures 187 22 209 196 14 210
Other investments 298 – 298 262 – 262
Deferred tax assets 1,537 495 2,032 1,441 498 1,939
Other non-current assets 234 14 248 522 9 531
Non-current assets 10,869 793 11,662 10,702 781 11,483
Current assets
Inventories 2,192 1 2,193 2,109 – 2,109
Trade and other receivables 5,538 (724) 4,814 4,934 (439) 4,495
Liquid investments 2,818 (1,306) 1,512 2,493 (1,024) 1,469
Cash and cash equivalents 1,161 1,306 2,467 962 1,024 1,986
Assets held for sale – 2 2 – – –
Current assets 11,709 (721) 10,998 10,498 (439) 10,059
Total assets 22,578 72 22,650 21,200 342 21,542
Short-term borrowings (1,582) – (1,582) (1,452) – (1,452)
Trade and other payables (5,542) 704 (4,838) (5,561) 844 (4,717)
Current tax payable (1,598) – (1,598) (1,458) – (1,458)
Short-term provisions – (962) (962) – (968) (968)
Current liabilities (8,722) (258) (8,980) (8,471) (124) (8,595)
Long-term borrowings (4,381) – (4,381) (3,651) – (3,651)
Deferred tax provision (710) 333 (377) (618) 449 (169)
Pensions and other post-employment benefits (785) (1,734) (2,519) (807) (2,137) (2,944)
Other provisions (1,534) 965 (569) (1,617) 962 (655)
Other non-current liabilities (244) – (244) (232) – (232)
Non-current liabilities (7,654) (436) (8,090) (6,925) (726) (7,651)
Total liabilities (16,376) (694) (17,070) (15,396) (850) (16,246)
Net assets 6,202 (622) 5,580 5,804 (508) 5,296
Equity
Share capital 1,484 – 1,484 1,487 – 1,487
Share premium account 304 – 304 264 – 264
Shares held by ESOPTrusts (2,574) 38 (2,536) (2,729) 11 (2,718)
Other reserves 1,930 – 1,930 1,925 – 1,925
Retained earnings 4,781 (655) 4,126 4,112 (514) 3,598
Equity shareholders’ funds 5,925 (617) 5,308 5,059 (503) 4,556
Non-equity minority interests – – – 503 – 503
Equity minority interests 277 (5) 272 242 (5) 237
Capital employed 6,202 (622) 5,580 5,804 (508) 5,296
IFRS Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense 31st December 2004 31st December 2003
UKGAAP Adjustments IFRS UKGAAP Adjustments IFRS
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Exchange movements (54) 24 (30) 113 14 127
Tax on exchange movements and unrealised gains (73) – (73) (92) 2 (90)
Loss from own shares for employee share schemes (55) – (55) (39) – (39)
Goodwill written back 20 (20) – – – –
Revaluation of goodwill due to exchange 6 – 6 (7) – (7)
Unrealisedloss on disposal of intellectual property (1) 1 – 7 (7) –
Actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit plans – 91 91 – (311) (311)
Net gains/(losses) recognised directly in equity (157) 96 (61) (18) (302) (320)
Profit attributable to shareholders 4,302 (394) 3,908 4,478 (277) 4,201
Totalrecognised income and expense for the year 4,145 (298) 3,847 4,460 (579) 3,881Financial information under IFRSGlaxoSmithKline 173
IFRSConsolidated cash flow statement
12 months 2004 12 months 2003 Q4 2004 Q3 2004 Q2 2004 Q1 2004
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from operations 6,527 7,005 1,406 2,006 1,783 1,332
Taxation paid (1,583) (1,917) (467) (391) (454) (271)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 4,944 5,088 939 1,615 1,329 1,061
Cash flow from investing activities
Purchase of tangible fixed assets (788) (746) (283) (195) (189) (121)
Proceeds from sale of tangible fixed assets 53 46 15 24 12 2
Purchase of intangible assets (255) (316) (86) (96) (48) (25)
Purchase of equity investments (103) (63) (26) (6) (67) (4)
Proceeds from sale of equity investments 58 125 3 18 34 3
Purchase of businesses, net of cash acquired (297) (12) 9 (306) – –
Disposal of businessesand interest in associates 230 3 174 – 56 –
Investment in joint ventures and associates (2) (3) – – (2) –
Interest received 317 195 89 79 89 60
Dividends from joint ventures and associates 11 1 3 4 2 2
Net cash outflow from investing activities (776) (770) (102) (478) (113) (83)
Cash flow from financing activities
(Increase)/decreasein liquid investments (53) (373) (19) (37) 10 (7)
Proceeds from own shares for employee share options 23 26 7 4 8 4
Issue of share capital 42 41 17 9 6 10
Share capital purchased for cancellation (201) (980) – – (23) (178)
Purchase of Treasury shares (799) – (267) (247) (195) (90)
Redemption of preference shares issued by subsidiary (489) – – – (49) (440)
Increasein long-term loans 1,365 1,046 – – 1,365 –
Repayment of long-term loans (15) (23) (4) (7) – (4)
Net repayment of short-term loans (407) (442) 19 59 (475) (10)
Net repayment of obligations under finance leases (22) – (22) – – –
Interest paid (494) (327) (135) (133) (130) (96)
Dividends paid to GSK shareholders (2,475) (2,333) (56) (1,092) (807) (520)
Dividends paid to minority interests (73) (84) (9) (4) (9) (51)
Dividends paid on preference shares (2) (15) – – – (2)
Other financing cash flows 49 82 19 55 (58) 33
Net cash outflow from financing activities (3,551) (3,382) (450) (1,393) (357) (1,351)
Exchange adjustments (93) (110) (77) 3 28 (47)
Increase/(decrease)in cash and cash equivalents 524 826 310 (253) 887 (420)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 1,831 1,005 2,045 2,298 1,411 1,831
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 2,355 1,831 2,355 2,045 2,298 1,411
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period comprise:
Cash and cash equivalents 2,467 1,986 2,467 2,244 2,529 1,526
Overdrafts (112) (155) (112) (199) (231) (115)
2,355 1,831 2,355 2,045 2,298 1,411174 GlaxoSmithKline
Shareholder return
Share price Dividends per share
As a guide to shareholders, the table below sets out the dividends
2004 2003 2002
per share paid in the last five years.
(£) (£) (£)
At 1st January 12.80 11.92 17.23
Year GSK (p) GW (p) SB (p)
High during the year 12.99 13.90 17.80
2004 42.0
Low during the year 10.42 10.00 10.57
2003 41.0
At 31st December 12.22 12.80 11.92
2002 40.0
(Decrease)/Increase (5)% 7% (31)%
2001 39.0
2000 38.0 29.66
The table above sets out the middle market closing prices
derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List.
Dividends paid to Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham
The company’s share pricedecreasedbyfiveper cent in2004
shareholders are expressed as dividends per GlaxoSmithKline
from a price of £12.80 at 1st January2004to£12.22at
share.
31st December2004. This compares with anincreasein
the FTSE 100 index ofeightper cent during the year.
Dividends per ADS
As a guide to holders of ADRs, the tablebelow setsout the
Market capitalisation
dividendsper ADS paid in US dollars in the last five years. They
The market capitalisation of GlaxoSmithKline at 31st December
are translated into US dollars at applicable exchange rates.
2004was£72billion. At that date GlaxoSmithKline was the
fourthlargest company by market capitalisation on the FTSE Year GSK ($) GW ($) SB ($)
index.
2004 1.53
2003 1.39
SmithKline Beecham plc Floating Rate Unsecured Loan Stock
2002 1.24
1990/2010
2001 1.11
The loan stock is not listed on any exchange but holders may 2000 1.10 0.87
require SmithKline Beecham plc to redeem their loan stock at
Dividends paid to Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham
par, i.e. £1 for every £1 of loan stock held, on the first business
ADR holders are expressed as dividends per GlaxoSmithKline
day of March, June, September and December. Holders wishing
ADS.One GlaxoSmithKline ADS represents two GlaxoSmithKline
to redeem all or part of their loan stock should complete the
shares.
notice on the back of their loan stock certificate and return it
to the registrar, to arrive at least 30 days before the relevant
Dividend calendar
redemption date.
Fourth quarter2004
Taxation
Ex-dividend date 16th February 2005
General information concerning the UK and US tax effects of Record date 18th February 2005
share ownership is set out in 'Taxation information for Payable 7thApril 2005
shareholders'on page 178.
First quarter 2005
Dividends Ex-dividend date 11th May 2005
Record date 13th May 2005
GlaxoSmithKline pays dividends quarterly. The Board declared
Payable 7th July 2005
dividends for 2004 as follows:
2004 2003 Second quarter 2005
Dividends per share pence pence
Ex-dividend date 3rd August 2005
First interim–paid 1st July 2004 10 9
Record date 5th August 2005
Second interim–paid 30th September 2004 10 9
Payable 6th October 2005
Third interim–paid 6th January 2005 10 9
Fourth interim–payable 7th April 2005 12 14 Third quarter 2005
Total 42 41 Ex-dividend date 2nd November 2005
Record date 4th November 2005
Payable 5th January 2006GlaxoSmithKline 175
Shareholder information
Ordinary shares Share price information
Share price information is available on the company's website at
The company's shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
www.gsk.com. Information in the UK is also available on Ceefax,
Teletext, andfrom FTCityline by calling 0906 003 5694 or 0906
Registrar
843 5694 (calls charged at 60p a minute plus VAT at all times).
The company's share register is administered by Lloyds TSB
Registrars, who also provide the following services:
Annual General Meeting 2005
• GlaxoSmithKline Investment Plan
The plan enables shareholders to reinvest quarterly dividends The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre,25th May 2005
and/or make monthly investments in the company's ordinary Broad Sanctuary, Westminster,
shares using a special dealing arrangement. London SW1P 3EE
• GlaxoSmithKline Individual Savings Account The Annual General Meeting is the company's principal forum for
The GlaxoSmithKline Individual Savings Account (ISA) is a communication with private shareholders. In addition to the formal
tax-efficient way to invest in the company's ordinary shares. resolutions to be put to the meeting, there will be a presentation
by the Chief Executive Officer on the performance of the business
• GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Sponsored Nominee
and its future development. There will be opportunity for questions
The corporate sponsored nominee provides a facility for
to the Board, and the Chairmen of the Board's committees will
shareholders to hold shares without the need for share
take questions on matters relating to those committees.
certificates. Shareholders' details will not be held on the main
share register, and so will remain confidential. Investors holding shares in the company through a nominee service
should arrange with that nominee service to be appointed as a
• Shareview service
corporate representative or proxy in respect of their shareholding
The shareview portfolio service provides shareholders with
in order to attend and vote at the meeting.
information on their investment in the company. Shareholders
may register for this service at www.shareview.co.uk. ADR holders wishing to attend the meeting must obtain a proxy
from The Bank of New York which will enable them to attend the
• Shareview Dealing service
meeting and vote on the business to be transacted. ADR holders
Shareview Dealing Service is a telephone and internal share
may instruct The Bank of New York as tothe way in which the
dealing facility available to ordinary shareholders by logging on
shares represented by their ADRs should be voted by completing
to www.shareview.co.uk/dealing or by calling 0870 850 0852.
and returning the voting card provided bythe bankin accordance
with the instructions given.
American Depositary Shares
The company's shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange Financial reporting
in the form of American Depositary Shares (ADSs) and these are
Financial reporting calendar 2005
evidenced by American Depositary Receipts (ADRs), each one of
which represents two ordinary shares. Announcement of 1st Quarter Results 28th April 2005
Announcement of 2nd Quarter Results 28th July 2005
ADR programme administrator
Announcement of 3rd Quarter Results 27th October 2005
The ADR programme is administered by The Bank of New York,
Preliminary Announcement of Annual Results 9th February 2006
and provides the Global BuyDIRECT service which is a direct ADS
purchase/sale and dividend reinvestment plan for ADR holders. Publication of Annual Report/Review March 2006
Share dealing facility Results Announcements
Hoare Govett Limited operates a postal share dealing service in The Results Announcements are issued to the London Stock
the company’s ordinary shares. It enables investors to buy or sell Exchange, andareavailable on theirnews service.At the same
shares at competitive commission charges. Transactions are time, or shortly afterwards,theyare issued to the media,made
executed and settled by Pershing Securities Limited. Further details available on the website andsent to the USSecurities and
of this service together with purchase and sale forms may be Exchange Commission and the New York Stock Exchange.
obtained by telephoning +44 (0)20 7661 6555.
Financial reports
Smith Barney, part of Citigroup, also offers a share dealing service
The company publishes an Annual Report and, for the investor
in the company’s ordinary shares and ADSs. Further details of this
not needing the full detail of the Report, an Annual Review.
service can be obtained by contacting them, see contact details
These are available from the date of publication on the website.
inside back cover.
The Annual Review is sent to all shareholders on the date of
The provision of the details above are not intended to be an
publication. Shareholders may also elect to receive the Report
invitation or inducement to engage in an investment activity.
by writing to the company’s registrars. Alternatively shareholders
Advice on share dealing, should be obtained from a stockbroker
may elect to receive notification by email of the publication of
or independent financial adviser.
financial reports by registering on www.shareview.co.uk.
Copies of previous financial reports are available on the website.
Printed copies can be obtained from the registrar in the UK and
from the Customer Response Center in the USA.176 GlaxoSmithKline
Share capital
Nature of trading market Glaxo Wellcome
The Ordinary Shares of the company were listed on the London Fiscal period
Stock Exchange on 27th December 2000. The shares were also from 1st January to 26th December 2000
Pence per share
listed on the New York Stock Exchange (inthe form of American
High Low
Depositary Shares ‘ADSs’) from the same date.
2000 2110 1440
The following table sets out, for the periods indicated, the high
and low middle market closing quotations in pence for the shares
Fiscal period
on the London Stock Exchange, as derived from its Daily Official from 1st Januaryto 26th December 2000
List, and the high and low last reported sales prices in US dollars USdollars per ADS
for the ADSs on the New York Stock Exchange, as derived from High Low
the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape.
2000 633⁄4 46
Information relating to the share and ADS prices for Glaxo
Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham prior to the date of
SmithKline Beecham
themerger is also given.
Fiscal period
GlaxoSmithKline Pence per share from 1st Januaryto 26th December 2000
Pence per share
Fiscal periods from 27th December 2000 High Low
High Low
Quarter ended 31st March 2005* 1295 1175
February 2005* 1295 1178 2000 955 671
January 2005 1250 1175
December 2004 1222 1114 Fiscal period
from 1st January to 26th December 2000
November 2004 1209 1101
USdollars per ADS
October 2004 1215 1121
High Low
September 2004 1209 1137
Quarter ended 31st December 2004 1222 1101 2000 7115⁄16 521⁄2
Quarter ended 30th September 2004 1209 1042
Quarter ended 30th June 2004 1201 1067
Quarter ended 31st March 2004 1299 1060
Quarterended 31st December 2003 1390 1250
Quarter ended 30th September 2003 1306 1158
Quarter ended 30th June 2003 1335 1131
Quarter ended 31st March 2003 1242 1000
Yearended 31st December 2002 1780 1057
Yearended 31st December 2001 2032 1626
27th to 31st December 2000 1920 1890
US dollars per ADS
Fiscal periods from 27th December 2000 High Low
Quarter ended 31st March 2005* 48.85 44.48
February 2005* 48.85 44.55
January 2005 47.35 44.48
December 2004 47.50 43.25
November 2004 45.04 42.54
October 2004 44.01 41.15
September 2004 43.84 40.68
Quarter ended 31st December 2004 47.50 41.15
Quarter ended 30th September 2004 43.84 39.04
Quarter ended 30th June 2004 43.50 39.44
Quarter ended 31st March 2004 46.93 39.38
Quarter ended 31st December 2003 47.64 42.09
Quarter ended 30th September 2003 43.22 36.91
Quarter ended 30th June 2003 43.87 35.40
Quarter ended 31st March 2003 40.13 31.85
Yearended 31st December 2002 50.87 32.86
Yearended 31st December 2001 58.00 47.15
27th to 31st December 2000 5613/16 553/8
*to 25th February 2005Share capitalGlaxoSmithKline 177
Analysis of shareholdings
Number of % of total % of total Number of
Analysis of shareholdings at 31st December 2004: accounts accounts shares shares
Holding of shares
Up to 1,000 153,285 70 1 55,899,970
1,001 to 5,000 49,861 23 2 107,541,323
5,001 to 100,000 13,634 6 3 206,901,953
100,001 to 1,000,000 1,226 1 7 402,558,721
Over 1,000,000 513 – 87 5,164,786,864
Totals 218,519 100 100 5,937,688,831
Held by
Nominee companies 40,211 18 79 4,662,105,341
Investment and trust companies 71 – 1 31,564,510
Insurance companies 26 – – 25,620,938
Individuals and other corporate bodies 178,209 82 6 369,095,973
BNY (Nominees) Limited 1 – 13 779,354,069
Held as Treasury Shares by GlaxoSmithKline 1 – 1 69,948,000
Totals 218,519 100 100 5,937,688,831
The Bank of New York’s holding held through BNY (Nominees) Limited represents the company’s ADR programme, whereby each ADS
represents two Ordinary Shares of 25p nominal value.
At25th February 2005, the number of holders of record of shares in the USA was1,187with holdings of1,776,334shares, and
thenumberof registered holders of the ADRs was44,537with holdings of401,140,809ADRs. Certain of these shares and ADRs were
held by brokers or other nominees, as a result the number of holders of record or registered holders in the USA is not representative of
the number of beneficial holders orofthe residence of beneficial holders.
Control of company
As far as is known to the company, it is not directly or indirectly owned or controlled by one or more corporations or by any government.
Thecompany does not know of any arrangements, the operation of which might result in a change in control of the company.
Substantial shareholdings
At 25th February 2005, the company had received notification of the following interestsof three per cent or more inthe shares in issue,
excluding Treasury shares:
• BNY(Nominees) Limited holds802,281,619shares representing 13.68per cent. These shares are held on behalf of holders of ADRs,
which evidence ADSs.
• Legal &General Investment Management Limited holds 215,495,981shares representing 3.67per cent.
• Barclays plc holds 229,512,017shares representing3.91per cent.
As far as is known to the company, no other person was the owner of three per cent or more of the shares in issue, excluding Treasury
shares of the company.
Directors and Officers
The interests of the Directors and Officers of the company,as defined in theCompanies Act 1985,in share options of the company are
given in theRemuneration Report(pages43 to 58).
Exchange controls and other limitations affecting securityholders
There are currently no UK laws, decrees or regulations restricting the import or export of capital or affecting the remittance of dividends
orother payments to holders of the company’s shares who are non-residents of the UK. There are no limitations relating only to
non-residents of the UK under English law or the company’s Memorandum and Articles of Association on the right tobe a holder of,
and tovote in respect of, the company’s shares.
Documents on display
The Memorandum and Articles of Association of thecompany and otherdocuments referred to in this Annual Report are available for
inspection at the Registered Office of the company.
Publications
This year GlaxoSmithKline is again producing a Corporate Responsibility Report covering performance in areas including community
investment, business ethics and integrity, access to medicines, R&D and environmental health and safety. The report will be published
onthe website at the end of March.178 GlaxoSmithKline
Taxation information for shareholders
Information for shareholders Stamp duty
UK stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax (SDRT) will, subject to
A summary of the main tax consequences for holders of shares
certain exemptions, be payable on the purchase of shares at a
and ADRs who are citizens or residents of the UK or the USA is
rate of 0.5 per cent of the purchase price. There is a minimum
set out below. It is not a complete analysis of all the possible tax
charge of £5 where a stamp duty liability arises.
consequences of purchase or ownership of these securities. It is
intended only as a general guide. Holders are advised to consult
US shareholders
their advisers with respect to the tax consequences of the
purchase and ownership of their shares or ADRs, and the The following is a summary of certain UK taxation and USA
consequences under state and local tax laws in the USA and federal income tax considerations that may be relevant to a
the implications of the new UK/US Income Tax convention. USholder of shares or ADRs. This summary only applies to a
shareholder that holds shares or ADRs as capital assets, is a
This statement is based upon UK and US tax laws and practices
citizen or resident of the USA or a domestic corporation or that
at the date of this report.
is otherwise subject to United States federal income taxation on
The new UK/US Income Tax Convention came into force on a net income basis in respect of the shares or ADRs, and is not
31st March 2003. The provisions of the new treaty apply for UK resident in the UK for UKtax purposes and does not hold shares
tax purposes from 1st April 2003 (UKCorporation Tax), 6th April for the purposes of a trade, profession or vocation that is carried
2003 (UK Income Tax and Capital Gains Tax) and 1st May 2003 on in the UK through a branch or agency.
(Withholding Taxes). For UStax purposes, the provisions of the
new treaty apply from 1st May 2003 (Withholding Taxes) and Taxation of dividends
1st January 2004 (all other UStaxes). However, holders of shares The gross amount of dividends received (including amounts in
or ADRs have the ability to elect to continue to use the respect of associated tax credit and UK withholding tax) is treated
provisions of the previous treaty for 12 months following the as foreign source dividend income for US tax purposes. It is not
new treaty’s entry into force. An election must be made in eligible for the dividend received deduction allowed to US
advance of the first event to which the new treaty would apply. corporations. Dividends on ADRs are payable in US dollars;
dividends on shares are payable in Sterling. Dividends paid in
US holders of ADRs generally will be treated as the owners of
pounds Sterling will be included in income in the US dollar
the underlying shares for the purposes of the current USA/UK
amount calculated by reference to the exchange rate on the day
double taxation conventions relating to income and gains
the dividends are received by the holder.Subject to certain
(Income Tax Convention), estate and gift taxes (Estate and Gift
exceptions, an individual eligible US holder will be subject to US
Tax Convention) and for the purposes of the US Internal Revenue
taxation at a maximum rate of 15 per cent in respect of qualified
Code of 1986, as amended (the Code).
dividends received before 2009. Shareholders are advised to
The following analysis deals with dividends paid after 6th April consult their own Tax Advisers to confirm their eligibility.
1999 when Advance Corporation Tax (ACT) was abolished.
Taxation of capital gains
UK shareholders Generally, US holders will not be subject to UK capital gains tax,
but will be subject to US tax on capital gains realised on the sale
Taxation of dividends
or other disposal of shares or ADRs.
From 6th April 1999, the rate of tax credits was reduced to one
ninth. As a result of compensating reductions in the rate of tax
Estate and gift taxes
on dividend income, there is no increase in the tax borne by UK
Under the Estate and Gift Tax Convention, a US shareholder
resident individual shareholders. Tax credits are, however, no
is not generally subject to UK inheritance tax.
longer repayable to shareholders with a tax liability of less than
the associated tax credit.
Stamp duty
UK stamp duty or SDRT will, subject to certain exemptions, be
Taxation of capital gains
payable on any issue or transfer of shares to the ADR custodian
UK shareholders may be liable for UK tax on gains on the
or depository at a rate of 1.5 per cent of their price (if issued),
disposal of shares or ADRs. They may also be entitled to
the amount of any consideration provided (if transferred on
indexation relief and taper relief on such sales. Indexation relief
sale), or their value (if transferred for no consideration).
is calculated on the market value of shares at 31st March 1982
and on the cost of any subsequent purchases from the date of No SDRT would be payable on the transfer of an ADR. No UK
such purchase. Indexation relief for individual shareholders stamp duty should be payable on the transfer of an ADR
ceased on 5th April 1998. Taper relief is available to individual provided that the instrument of transfer is executed and remains
shareholders who hold or are deemed to hold shares for at least at all times outside the UK. Any stamp duty on the transfer of
three years before they are sold. an ADR would be payable at a rate of 0.5 per cent of the
consideration for the transfer. Any sale of the underlying shares
Inheritance tax would result in liability to UK stamp duty or, as the case may be,
Individual shareholders may be liable to inheritance tax on the SDRT at a rate of 0.5 per cent. There is a minimum charge of
transfer of shares or ADRs. Tax may be charged on the amount £5 where a stamp duty liability arises.
by which the value of the shareholder's estate is reduced as a
result of any transfer by way of gift or other disposal at less than
full market value. Such a gift or other disposal is subject to both
UK inheritance tax and US estate or gift tax. The Estate and Gift
Tax Convention would generally provide for tax paid in the USA
to be credited against tax payable in the UK.GlaxoSmithKline 179
Cross reference to Form 20-F
This table has been provided as a cross reference from the information included in this Annual Report to the requirements of Form 20-F.
Item Page Item Page
1 Identity of directors, senior management and advisors n/a 8 Financial information
A Consolidated statements and other financial information
2 Offer statistics and expected timetable n/a
Financial statements See Item 18
3 Key information
Legal proceedings 116-122
A Selected financial data 160-162,174
B Significant changes
D Risk factors 76-78
Note 31 – Post Balance Sheet Event 122
4 Information on the company
9 The offer and listing
A History and development of the company Inside front cover
A Share price history 176
B Business overview
C Markets 176
Products 25-26,28
10Additional information
Competition 27-28
B Memorandum and Articles of Association Footnote (i)
Regulation 29-30
C Material contracts n/a
Marketing and distribution 18,23
D Exchange controls 177
Manufacture and supply 24
E Taxation 178
Research and development 07-17
H Documents on display 177
Intellectual property 30-31
Environment, health and safety 31-32 11Quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk
Access to medicines 19 Treasury policies 74-75
Investment in communities 21-22 Note 34-Financial instruments and related disclosures125-128
C Organisational structure 150-152 12Description of securities other than equity securities n/a
D Property, plantsand equipment 71
13Defaults, dividend arrearages and delinquencies n/a
Environmental responsibility 71
Note 6 – Segment information 100-102 14Material modifications to the rights of security holders
Note 17 – Tangible fixed assets 109 and use of proceeds n/a
5 Operating and financial review and prospects 15Controls and procedures 39-42
A Operating results 16[Reserved]
2004 and 2003 61-78 A Audit Committee financial expert 40
2003 and 2002 79-86 B Code of ethics 41
B Liquidity and capital resources 71-75 C Principal accountant fees and services 104
C Research and development, patents and licenses, etc. 07-17,60 D Exemptions from the listing standard for audit committees n/a
D Trend information 60 E Purchases of equity securities by the issuer and affiliated
E Balance sheet arrangements n/a purchasers 114
F Tabular disclosure ofcontractualobligations 72
17Financial statements n/a
6 Directors, senior management and employees
18Financial statements
A Directors and senior management 34-35
Independent auditors’ report Footnote (ii)
B Compensation
Consolidated statement of profit and loss 90-91
RemunerationReport 43-58
Consolidated statement of total recognised gains and
C Board practices
losses 90-91
Corporate governance 36-42
Consolidated statement of cash flow 92-93
D Employees
Consolidated balance sheet 94
GlaxoSmithKline people 20
Reconciliation of movements in consolidated equity
Note 35– Employee costs 129-135
shareholders’ funds 94
Financial record 162
Company balance sheet 95
E Share ownership
Notesto the financial statements 96-152
GlaxoSmithKline people 20
19Exhibits Footnote (ii)
Note 36– Employee share schemes 136-138
Share options 54-55
Incentive plans 55-56 Footnote
Directors’ interests 53,58 i) Information responsive to this item is incorporated by reference
to ‘Memorandum and Articles of Association of GlaxoSmithKline’
7 Major shareholders and related party transactions at pages 35–36 of the Group’s Annual Report on Form 20-F for
A Major shareholders 177 the year ended 31st December 2000.
B Related party transactions
ii) See the company’s Form 20-F filing with the Securities and Exchange
Note 32 – Related party transactions 122
Commission.180 GlaxoSmithKline
Glossary of terms
Terms used in the Annual Report US equivalent or brief description
Accelerated capital allowances Tax allowance in excess of depreciation arising from the purchase of fixed assets that
delay the charging and payment of tax. The US equivalent of tax depreciation.
Advance Corporation Tax (ACT) An advance payment of UK tax that was made when dividends are paid. No direct US
equivalent.
American Depositary Receipt (ADR) Receipt evidencing title to an ADS. Each GlaxoSmithKline ADR represents two ordinary
shares.
American Depositary Shares (ADSs) Ordinary Shares registered on the New York Stock Exchange.
Called-up share capital Ordinary Shares, issued and fully paid.
CER growth Growth at constant exchange rates.
Combined Code Guidelines required by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority to address the
principal aspects of Corporate Governance.
The company GlaxoSmithKline plc.
Creditors Accounts payable.
Currency swap An exchange of two currencies, coupled with a subsequent re-exchange of those
currencies, at agreed exchange rates and dates.
Debtors Accounts receivable.
Defined benefit plan Pension plan with specific employee benefits, often called ‘final salary scheme’.
Defined contribution plan Pension plan with specific contributions and a level of pension dependent upon the
growth of the pension fund.
Derivative financial instrument A financial instrument that derives its value from the price or rate of some underlying
item.
Diluted earnings per share Diluted income per share.
Earnings per share Basic income per share.
Employee Share Ownership Plan Trusts Trusts established by the Group to satisfy share based employee incentive plans.
Equity shareholders’ funds The aggregation of shares and reserves owned by shareholders. The US equivalent is
shareholders’ equity.
Finance lease Capital lease.
Freehold Ownership with absolute rights in perpetuity.
Gearing ratio Net debt as a percentage of shareholders’ funds net debt and minority interests.
The Group GlaxoSmithKline plc and its subsidiary undertakings.
Hedging The reduction of risk, normally in relation to foreign currency or interest rate
movements, bymaking off-setting commitments.
Intangible fixed assets Assets without physical substance, such as brands, licences, patents, know-how and
marketing rights purchased from outside parties.
Interest cover The number of times profit before interest exceeds net interest payable.
Interest payable Interest expense.
Interest receivable Interest income.
Non-equity minority interest Preference shares issued by a subsidiary to outside parties.
Preference shares Shares issued at varying dividend rates that are treated as outside interests.
Profit Income.
Profit and loss account reserve Retained earnings.
Profit attributable to shareholders Net income.
Share capital Ordinary Shares, capital stock or common stock issued and fully paid.
Share option Stock option.
Share premium account Additional paid-up capital or paid-in surplus (not distributable).
Shares in issue Shares outstanding.
Statement of total recognised gains and losses Statement of comprehensive income.
Stocks Inventories.
Subsidiary undertaking An affiliate in which GlaxoSmithKline holds a majority shareholding and/or exercises
control.
Tangible fixed assets Property, plant and equipment.
Turnover Revenue.Contact details
INTERNET
Information for investors and about the company
is available on GlaxoSmithKline’s corporate website
at www.gsk.com
HEAD OFFICE AND REGISTERED OFFICE
GlaxoSmithKline plc
980 Great West Road
Brentford
Middlesex TW8 9GS
Tel: +44 (0)20 8047 5000
UNITED KINGDOM UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Investor relations Investor relations
980 Great West Road One Franklin Plaza
Brentford PO Box 7929
Middlesex TW8 9GS Philadelphia PA 19101
Tel: +44 (0)20 8047 5557 / 5558 Tel: 1 888 825 5249 toll free
Fax: +44 (0)20 8047 7807 Tel: +1 215 751 7003 outside the USA
Fax:+1 215 751 3233
Registrar
Lloyds TSB Registrars ADR programme administrator
The Causeway The Bank of New York
Worthing Shareholder Relations
West Sussex BN99 6DA PO Box 11258
www.shareview.co.uk Church Street Station
New York NY 10286-1258
General enquiries, Annual Report orderline and
www.adrbny.com
Corporate Nominee service
Tel: 1 877 353 1154 toll free
Tel: 0870 600 3991 inside the UK
Tel: +1 610 382 7836 outside the USA
Tel: +44 (0)121 415 7067 outside the UK
Customer response center
Shareholder Investment Plans
Tel: 1 888 825 5249 toll free
Dividend re-investment enquiries
Tel: 0870 241 3018 inside the UK Corporate Share dealing facility
Tel: +44 (0)121 415 7067 outside the UK- Ordinary holders Smith Barney
Tel: +44 (0)121 415 7146 outside the UK - Employees Attn: GSKServices
53 State Street
Monthly Savings Plan enquiries
39th Floor
Tel: 0870 606 0268 inside the UK
Boston, MA 02109
Tel: +44 (0)131 527 3746 outside the UK
Tel: 1 800 347 6179 toll free
ISA enquiries Tel: +1 617 589 3341 outside the USA
Tel: 0870 242 4244 inside the UK Fax:+1 617 589 3474
Tel: +44 (0)1903 854 062outside the UK TheTaylorGroup@SmithBarney.com
Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham corporate PEPs
The Share Centre Limited
Oxford House
Oxford Road
Aylesbury
Bucks HP21 8SZ
Tel: +44 (0)1296 414 144
Corporate Share dealing facility
Smith Barney
Attn: GSKServices
Citigroup Centre, Level 20
Canada Square, Canary Wharf
London E14 5LB
Tel: +44 (0)20 7508 1795
Fax:+44 (0)20 7890 7281
TheBalaesGroup@Citigroup.com
Printed by The Midas Press in the UK. The paper used in the production of this document is made from pulp harvestedfrom sustainable forests,
also using sawmill residues and forest thinnings. It is elemental chlorine-free.www.gsk.com