Connecting...
Annual Report 2001Mission Our global quest is to improve the quality of human life
by enabling people to do more, feel better and live longer.
Our Spirit We undertake our quest with the enthusiasm of entrepreneurs,
excited by the constant search for innovation. We value
performance achieved with integrity. We will attain
success as a world class global leader with each and every
one of our people contributing with passion and an unmatched
sense of urgency.
Strategic Intent We want to become the indisputable leader in our industry.
GlaxoSmithKline plc is an English public limited company.
Its shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange and the New
York Stock Exchange.
GlaxoSmithKline plc acquired Glaxo Wellcome plc and
SmithKline Beecham plc on 27th December 2000 by way of a
scheme of arrangement for the merger of the two companies
which became effective on 27th December 2000.
This report is the Annual Report of GlaxoSmithKline plc for
the year ended 31st December 2001. It comprises in a single
document the Annual Report of the company in accordance
with United Kingdom requirements and the Annual Report on
Form20-F to the Securities and Exchange Commission in the
United States of America.
A summary report on the year, the Annual Review 2001, intended
for the investor not needing the full detail of the Annual Report,
is produced as a separate document. The Annual Review includes
the joint statement by the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer,
a summary review of operations, summary financial statements
and a summary remuneration report.
The Annual Review is issued to all shareholders. The Annual
Report is issued to shareholders who have elected to receive it.
Both documents are available on GlaxoSmithKline’s web site –
visit “Corporate Home” at www.gsk.com.GlaxoSmithKline 01
GlaxoSmithKline plc
Annual Report
for the year ended 31st December 2001
Contents
Report of the Directors
02 Financial summary
03 Joint statement by the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer
05 Description of business
29 Corporate governance
35 Remuneration report
43 Operating and financial review and prospects
65 Financial statements
66 Directors’ statements of responsibility
67 Independent auditors’ report
68 Consolidated statement of profit and loss
68 Consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses
70 Consolidated statement of cash flow
72 Consolidated balance sheet
72 Reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders’ funds
73 Company balance sheet
74 Notes to the financial statements
130 Principal financial statements in US$
132 Financial record
141 Investor information
142 Shareholder return
144 Taxation information for shareholders
145 Shareholder information
146 Share capital
148 Cross reference to Form 20-F
150 Glossary of terms
The Annual Report was approved by the Board
151 Index
of Directors on 12th March 2002 and published
on 28th March 2002. Contact details02 GlaxoSmithKline
Financial summary
2001 2000 Increase
Business performance £m £m CER% £%
Sales 20,489 18,079 11 13
Trading profit 6,053 5,026 16 20
Profit before taxation 6,169 5,327 12 16
Earnings/Net income 4,391 3,697 14 19
Earnings per share 72.4p 61.0p 14 19
Total results
Profit before taxation 4,517 6,029
Earnings/Net income 3,059 4,154
Earnings per share 50.4p 68.5p
Business performance, which is the primary performance measure used by management, is presented after excluding merger items,
integration and restructuring costs and the disposal of subsidiaries. Management believes that exclusion of these non-recurring items
provides a better comparison of business performance for the periods presented. Accordingly, this information is provided as a supplement
to that included in the consolidated statement of profit and loss on pages 68 and 69 prepared in accordance with UKGAAP. Total results
include these non-recurring items.
CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates. £% represents growth at actual exchange rates.
Financial highlights
• Pharmaceutical sales up 12 per cent (excluding divested products):
– Strong growth in all regions: USA 16 per cent; Europe seven per cent; Rest of World 10 per cent
– Strong growth in key therapy areas: Central nervous system 16 per cent; Respiratory 24 per cent; HIV/AIDS 14 per cent
– New products up 48 per cent to £3.7 billion representing 22 per cent of total pharmaceutical sales
– Seretide/Advairachieved sales of £850 million;Advairlaunch – one of the most successful ever in the US pharmaceutical industry.
• Active in-licensing programme delivered 10 new products into clinical development.
• 2001 merger and manufacturing cost savings of over £750 million achieved.
• £4 billion share buy-back programme – £2 billion share purchases completed.
• Strong business performance EPS growth – up 19 per cent (14 per cent CER).
Shareholder return 2001 2000
Dividends per GlaxoSmithKline share 39.0p
former Glaxo Wellcome shareholder – 38.0p
former SmithKline Beecham shareholder – 29.7p
2000 dividends represent dividends paid to Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham shareholders expressed as dividends per
GlaxoSmithKline share.
Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements
The Group's reports filed with the US Securities and Exchange Commission (the Commission), including this document and written information released, or oral
statements made, to the public in the future by or on behalf of the Group may contain, forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements give the
Group's current expectations or forecasts of future events. An investor can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or
current facts. They use words such as ‘anticipate’, ‘estimate’, ‘expect’, ‘intend’, ‘will’, ‘project’, ‘plan’, ‘believe’, and other words and terms of similar meaning in
connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, prospective
products or product approvals, future performance or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, the outcome of contingencies such as
legal proceedings, and financial results. The Group undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information,
future events or otherwise.
Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties. The Group cautions investors that a number of important factors including those in this
document could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement. Such factors include, but are not limited to,
those discussed under ‘Risk factors’ on pages 56 and 57 of this Annual Report.GlaxoSmithKline 03
Joint statement by the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer
At the same time, the enhanced marketing power made possible
through our combined salesforces has given us the size, quality
and flexibility to achieve a rapid uptake and acceptance of
GlaxoSmithKline’s products. For example, Seretide/Advair, our
newest asthma treatment, has enjoyed remarkable success
around the world. It is now our fourth largest product globally
and is number one in Europe, achieving £850 million in
worldwide sales in 2001. In the USA, the Advairlaunch was
one of the most successful ever in the US pharmaceutical industry.
The merger has helped to position GlaxoSmithKline – with our
marketing power and development expertise – as the partner of
choice for companies seeking a large pharmaceutical company to
maximise the value of their new products. Our active in-licensing
programme during 2001 delivered ten new products into clinical
development. These agreements include exciting compounds such
as vardenafil for erectile dysfunction, which we expect to launch
with our partner Bayer in 2002. Further innovative agreements will
provide access to the pipelines of two of the largest pharmaceutical
Successful first year for GlaxoSmithKline
companies in Japan, Shionogi and Tanabe.
Our first year as a merged company was completed successfully,
We have reorganised and rejuvenated the entire R&D organisation,
connecting over 100,000 employees together in what is now
taking advantage of our size while still maintaining flexibility and
the world’s second largest pharmaceutical company, the largest
efficiency through smaller, entrepreneurial Centres of Excellence for
pharmaceutical company in Europe and one of the fastest
Drug Discovery (CEDDs). The current R&D expenditure of £2.6billion
growing pharmaceutical companies in the key US market.
is one of the largest in the industry and the merger will also enable
In line with our commitment to shareholders, we are pleased to us to save and reinvest a further £250 million in R&D by 2003.
report that we delivered business performance earnings per share
It was disappointing to lose tranilast, for the prevention of restenosis,
growth for 2001 of 19 per cent, or 14 per cent at constant
and compound ‘570’ for the treatment of diabetes, from the
exchange rates.
phaselll pipeline in 2001.
Our confidence in the continued performance of our company has
We currently have one of the strongest early-stage pipelines in the
led us to expect business performance earnings per share growth
industry with 118 projects in clinical development, including 56
in the mid-teens in 2002 and low-teens or better in 2003. This
new chemical entities, 21 new vaccines and 41 line extensions.
guidance assumes that GlaxoSmithKline successfully defends its
intellectual property surrounding Augmentinand Paxilin the USA. Our discovery and development programme, together with our
in-licensing activities, hasgiven GlaxoSmithKline a strong start in
Delivering merger benefits achieving our ambition to build one of the best pipelines in the
industry by 2005.
When we announced the merger, we informed shareholders that
we expected to create a company with significant financial strength, Block Drug has been successfully integrated into our Consumer
enhanced marketing power and improved R&D productivity. We Healthcare business which achieved sales of £3.3 billion last year.
have made great progress during 2001 in turning these expectations This acquisition added Sensodyne, Polidentand Poligripto our Oral
into reality. care business and a number of significant brands to our over-the-
counter medicines. As a result of the acquisition, GlaxoSmithKline
GlaxoSmithKline is in strong financial shape. In 2001, business
has become the number two company globally in oral care and
performance profit before tax was up 12 per cent at constant
further critical mass has been added in the USA, Europe and the
exchange rates to £6.2 billion while net operating cashflow was
Rest of the World.
£6.5 billion, nearly £1.1 billion more than the previous year. We also
achieved merger and manufacturing restructuring savings in excess
Positioned for success
of £750 million. During the year we increased our estimate of the
annual savings from the merger by £200 million and we remain on As we begin our second year as GlaxoSmithKline, the company is
track to deliver total annual merger and manufacturing in excellent shape and we are well positioned to realise continued
restructuring savings of £1.8 billion by 2003. future success. Our strong portfolio is built on six core products of
over $1 billion in global sales: Seroxat/Paxilfor depression,
This financial strength has enabled us to announce in 2001 a
Augmentin, an antibiotic, Flixotide/Floventfor asthma,
£4billion share buy-back programme which at the year end was
Seretide/Advairfor asthma, Imigran/Imitrexfor migraine
half way towards completion. The Group has the financial power
and Avandiafor diabetes.
to undertake this programme whilst retaining the flexibility to
consider other investment opportunities that may arise. New products represent 22 per cent of total pharmaceutical
sales and grew at 48 per cent at constant exchange rates to over
£3.7 billion in 2001. GlaxoSmithKline is the global leader in three
key therapy areas, anti-infectives, respiratory and central nervous
system products.04 GlaxoSmithKlineJoint statement by the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer
We expect several new product indications will further contribute The company also recognises that, even in the USA, some of the
to future growth. In 2001, we received US approval of Seroxat/Paxil poorest citizens may not be able to afford the medicines they need.
indications for generalised anxiety disorder and post-traumatic GlaxoSmithKline took a leadership position and launched the
stress disorder, Coregfor severe heart failure, Augmentin ESfor Orange Cardprogramme in January 2002 to help people on low
ear infections in children, and Twinrix, the first combination incomes who do not have public or private prescription drug
hepatitis A and B vaccine. In January 2002, a US FDA Advisory coverage.
Committee recommended approval of Seretide/Advairfor the
These programmes reflect our fundamental commitment to
treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)
improving the quality of life for patients across the globe and
associated with bronchitis.
connecting with the needs of those communities where our
GlaxoSmithKline is planning to make several key regulatory filings employees live and work.
in 2002: compound ‘908’ for HIV, Ariflofor COPD, ibandronate
In May 2002 we will publish a review of GlaxoSmithKline’s
for post-menopausal osteoporosis, which will be filed with our
commitment to society entitled ‘Performance with Integrity’
development partner Roche, Lamictalfor bipolar disorder and
which will incorporate information about the most pressing
Wellbutrin XLfor depression.
social and environmental issues that are core to our business.
GlaxoSmithKline is involved in legal challenges in the USA and
Europe regarding infringement of its patents relating to some of Acknowledgements
its major products. We will continue to defend our intellectual
property rights in these and other countries. We want to thank our Board members and our employees for
their support during this first year of our newly merged company.
Commitment to communities In particular, we would like to thank Sir Peter Walters and
Mr John Young, who will retire as Non-Executive Directors of
The Group is delivering on its commitment to support
GlaxoSmithKline at the conclusion of the company’s Annual
communities globally. During 2001, GlaxoSmithKline continued to
General Meeting in May for the invaluable service they have given
play an international leadership role for increasing access to
to the Boards of both SmithKline Beecham and GlaxoSmithKline.
HIV/AIDS treatments in developing countries. We maintained our
commitment to reduce prices to governments through the United
On behalf of the Board and the Corporate Executive Team, we
Nations AIDS Accelerating Access Initiative which we announced
also thank our shareholders for their support of our company.
in May 2000. We outlined the full range of our activities to
We hope you are as proud of our people and their achievements
improve the quality of healthcare in developing countries in a
as we are and that you share our enthusiasm for the tremendous
publication called ‘Facing the Challenge’. This included extending
future prospects of GlaxoSmithKline.
our preferential pricing to more products, countries and customers,
including global funds. All our anti-retrovirals and anti-malarials are
now offered at fixed, not-for-profit prices to public sector customers
and non-profit organisations in the least developed countries and
sub-Saharan Africa.
Additionally, because of the gravity of the HIV/AIDS problem
in sub-Saharan Africa, we offer these preferential prices for
anti-retrovirals to employers who provide HIV/AIDS treatment
to their staff through workplace clinics.
We have also reconfirmed our commitment to a global programme Sir Richard Sykes J P Garnier
to eliminate lymphatic filariasis with what will become the industry’s Chairman Chief Executive Officer
largest donation programme. In addition to drug donation,
GlaxoSmithKline provides an extensive programme of support to
other partners working to prevent this disfiguring tropical disease.
A message from Sir Richard Sykes A message from J P Garnier
You will have seen the recent announcement that I have decided to On behalf of the Board, I would like to pay tribute to Sir Richard,
retire from the Board of Directors with effect from this year’s Annual who has made a tremendous contribution to Glaxo,
General Meeting on 20th May. At that time, Sir Christopher Hogg, Glaxo Wellcome and GlaxoSmithKline. He is a strong and
currently a Non-Executive Director of GlaxoSmithKline, will become committed ambassador for the pharmaceutical industry and a
Chairman. great champion of the UK science base. I wish him well for the
future. At the same time, we welcome Sir Christopher as our new
I feel now is the right time to depart having overseen the successful
Chairman and look forward to benefiting from his wide-ranging
merger of GlaxoSmithKline and as I approach my 60th birthday in
experience and knowledge.
August. I wish to devote my time and energy to my role as Rector
of Imperial College and leave GlaxoSmithKline in great shape for
the future.
I would like to record my thanks to the company’s employees for
all their dedication and hard work and also to thank shareholders
for their support over many years.GlaxoSmithKline 05
Description of business
The Description of business discusses the activities, the
resourcesandthe operating environment of the business and
identifies developments and achievements in 2001, under the
following headings:
The business
06 History and development of the company
07 Products
Operating environment
10 Competition
11 Regulation
Operating activities
12 Marketing and distribution
12 Manufacture and supply
13 Research and development
Operating resources
22 Intellectual property
23 Information technology
23 GlaxoSmithKline people
24 Property, plant and equipment
The business and the community
25 Performance with integrity
25 Environmental responsibility
26 Access to medicines in the developing world
26 Global community partnerships and corporate donations
Discussion of the Group’s management structures and corporate
governance procedures is set out in Corporate governance
(pages29to34).
The Remuneration report gives details of the Group’s policies on
Directors’ remuneration and the amounts earned by Directors and senior
management in 2001 (pages 35 to 42).
Discussion of the Group’s operating and financial performance and
financial resources is given in the Operating and financial review
andprospects (pages 43 to 64).
In this report: ‘GlaxoSmithKline’ or the ‘Group’ means GlaxoSmithKline plc
and its subsidiary undertakings and the‘company’ means GlaxoSmithKline
plc;‘GlaxoSmithKline share’ means an Ordinary Share ofGlaxoSmithKline
plc of 25p.
Throughout this report, figures quoted for market size, market share and
market growth rates relate to the 12 months ended 30th September
2001 (orlater where available). These are GlaxoSmithKline estimates
based onthe most recent data from independent external sources,
valued in sterling at relevant exchange rates. Figures quoted for product
market share reflect sales by GlaxoSmithKline and licensees.
Brand names appearing in italics throughout this report are trade marks
of GlaxoSmithKline plc, its subsidiaries or associated companies, with
theexception of Baycola trade mark of Bayer AG, Bexxar, a trade mark
of Corixa Corporation, Inc, Coreg, a trade mark of Roche Laboratories,
Inc, Factive, a trade mark ofLGChemical, Ltd, Natrecora trade mark of
Scios Inc, Navelbine, a trade mark of Pierre Fabre Médicament and
Nicoderm, a trade mark of Aventis SA, all of which are used under
licence by the Group.06 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business
The business
History and development of the company
GlaxoSmithKline plc, and its subsidiary and associated
undertakings, constitute a major global healthcare group engaged
in the creation and discovery, development, manufacture and
marketing of pharmaceutical and consumer health-related
products.
GlaxoSmithKline has its corporate head office in the London area at:
980 Great West Road
Brentford
Middlesex TW8 9GS
England
Tel: 020 8047 5000
GlaxoSmithKline also has operational headquarters in Philadelphia,
PA and Research Triangle Park, NC, USA, and operating companies
in some 70 countries, with products sold in over 140 countries.
The principal research and development (R&D) facilities are in the
UK, USA, Japan, Italy and Belgium and products are currently
manufactured in some 40 countries.
The major markets for the Group’s products are the USA, Japan,
theUK, France, Germany and Italy.
GlaxoSmithKline plc is a public limited company incorporated on
6thDecember 1999 under English law. On 27th December 2000
the company acquired Glaxo Wellcome plc and SmithKline
Beecham plc, both English public limited companies, by way of a
scheme of arrangement for the merger of the two companies.
Both Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham were major global
healthcare businesses.
On 1st October 2001 Glaxo Wellcome plc changed its name to
GlaxoSmithKline Services plc. Historical references to Glaxo
Wellcome plc in this document have not been changed.
Business segments
GlaxoSmithKline operates principally in two industry segments:
• Pharmaceuticals (prescription pharmaceuticals and vaccines)
• Consumer Healthcare (over-the-counter medicines, oral care and
nutritional healthcare).Description of businessGlaxoSmithKline 07
Products – Pharmaceuticals
Therapeutic area Trade mark Compound Mechanism Indication (may vary by country)
CNS disorders Seroxat/Paxil paroxetine selective serotonin re-uptake depression, panic, anxiety
inhibitor
Wellbutrin bupropion noradrenaline re-uptake inhibitor depression
Imigran/Imitrex sumatriptan 5HT agonist migraine, cluster headache
1
Naramig/Amerge naratriptan 5HT agonist migraine
1
Lamictal lamotrigine sodium channel modulator epilepsy
Requip ropinirole dopamine D2 agonist Parkinson’s disease
Zyban bupropion SR noradrenaline re-uptake inhibitor smoking addiction
Respiratory Flixotide/Flovent fluticasone propionate inhaled anti-inflammatory asthma, bronchial conditions
Serevent salmeterol xinafoate bronchodilator bronchial asthma, bronchitis
Seretide/Advair salmeterol and fluticasone bronchodilator/anti-inflammatory asthma
propionate
Flixonase/Flonase fluticasone propionate intranasal anti-inflammatory hayfever, perennial rhinitis
Ventolin salbutamol/albuterol bronchodilator bronchial asthma, bronchitis
Becotide/Beclovent beclomethasone dipropionate inhaled anti-inflammatory bronchial asthma, bronchitis
Beconase beclomethasone dipropionate intranasal anti-inflammatory hayfever, perennial rhinitis
Anti-bacterials Augmentin amoxicillin/ broad spectrum oral/injectable common infections
/anti malarials clavulanate potassium antibiotic
Zinnat/Ceftin cefuroxime axetil oral antibiotic common infections
Fortum/Fortaz ceftazidime injectable antibiotic severe, life threatening infections
Amoxil amoxicillin broad spectrum oral/injectable common infections
antibiotic
Malarone atovaquone/proguanil electron transport system inhibitortreatment and prophylaxis of malaria
Zinacef cefuroxime injectable antibiotic surgical infections
Anti-virals Trizivir lamivudine, zidovudine reverse transcriptase inhibitor HIV/AIDS
and abacavir
Combivir/Biovir lamivudine and zidovudine reverse transcriptase inhibitor HIV/AIDS
Epivir/3TC lamivudine reverse transcriptase inhibitor HIV/AIDS
Retrovir/AZT zidovudine reverse transcriptase inhibitor HIV/AIDS
Ziagen abacavir reverse transcriptase inhibitor HIV/AIDS
Agenerase amprenavir protease inhibitor HIV/AIDS
Valtrex/Zelitrex valaciclovir DNA polymerase inhibitor shingles, genital herpes
Zovirax aciclovir DNA polymerase inhibitor herpes infections, shingles,
chicken pox, cold sores
Zeffix/Heptavir/ lamivudine reverse transcriptase inhibitor chronic hepatitis B infection
Heptodin/Epivir HBV
Relenza zanamivir neuraminidase inhibitor influenza treatment
Metabolic and Avandia rosiglitazone PPAR-gamma agonist type 2 diabetes
gastro-intestinal Zantac ranitidine hydrochloride anti-secretory duodenal ulcers, stomach ulcers,
reflux and dyspepsia
Vaccines Havrix hepatitis A
Engerix-B hepatitis B
Twinrix hepatitis A and B
Infanrix diphtheria, tetanus, acellular pertussis
Oncology Zofran ondansetron 5HT receptor antagonist nausea and vomiting from cancer
3
and emesis therapy
Hycamtin topotecan topoisomerase 1 inhibitor ovarian cancer, small cell lung cancer
Navelbine vinorelbine cytotoxic non-small cell lung cancer, breast
cancer
Cardiovascular Coreg carvedilol alpha/beta blocker congestive heart failure
Lanoxin digoxin cardiac anti-arrhythmic congestive heart failure,
cardiac arrhythmia
Flolan epoprostenol inhibitor of blood clotting primary pulmonary hypertension
Lacipil lacidipine calcium channel blocker hypertension
Pritor telmisartan angiotensin II antagonist hypertension
Arthritis Relafen nabumetone non steroidal anti-inflammatory osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis08 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business
Products – Pharmaceuticals (by therapeutic area) Anti-bacterials and anti-malarials
Augmentinis a broad-spectrum antibiotic suitable for the treatment
GlaxoSmithKline’s principal pharmaceutical products are presently
of a wide range of common bacterial infections, and is particularly
directed to 10 major therapeutic areas. An analysis of salesby these
effective against respiratory tract infections. New Augmentin ES-600
therapeutic areas, and a description of the principal products, are
is an extra strength suspension specifically designed to treat children
setout below:
with recurrent or persistent middle ear infections.
2001 2000 1999
Sales by therapeutic area £m £m £m Zinnatis an oral antibiotic used primarily for community-acquired
Central nervous system 4,007 3,279 2,720 infections of the lower respiratory tract. Fortumand Zinacefare
Respiratory 3,537 2,789 2,382 used in the hospital-based injectable antibiotics market.
Anti-bacterials 2,604 2,472 2,383
Malaroneis an oral anti-malarial used for the treatment and
Anti-virals 2,128 1,899 1,610
prophylaxis of malaria caused by Plasmodium falciparum.
Metabolic and gastro-intestinal 1,480 1,232 886
Vaccines 948 842 776
Anti-virals
Oncology and emesis 838 710 613
Combivir, a combination of Retrovirand Epivir, has consolidated
Cardiovascular 591 463 449
the position of these two reverse transcriptase inhibitors as the
Arthritis 156 210 275
cornerstone of many multiple anti-HIV product regimens. Physician
Others 916 1,086 1,096
acceptance has clearly demonstrated the value placed on
Divested products – 447 428
minimising the ‘pill burden’ faced by patients.
17,205 15,429 13,618
Ziagenis the Group’s new reverse transcriptase inhibitor. The
product’s potency, ease of use and resistance profile will allow it
Central nervous system (CNS) disorders to play a significant role in a variety of highly active, well tolerated,
Seroxat/Paxilis a selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitor (SSRI) andsimplified HIV treatment regimens.
approved for depression, panic, obsessive compulsive disorder and
Triziviris a combination of Combivirand Ziagen, combining three
social anxiety disorder. Approval was received in 2001 for post
anti-HIV therapies in one tablet, for twice daily administration.
traumatic stress disorder and generalised anxiety disorder in the
USA, UK and some European markets. Ageneraseis a new protease inhibitor for the treatment of HIV,
the first medicine of this class to be brought to the market by
Wellbutrinis also an anti-depressant, available in the USA in normal
GlaxoSmithKline. Agenerasehas a twice daily dosing regimen
orsustained release tablet formulations.
and no significant food or drink restrictions.
Imigran/Imitrexis a 5HT receptor agonist used for the treatment
1 Zeffixhas been approved for marketing in the USA, Europe, China
ofsevere or frequent migraine and cluster headache, and has
and other markets for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B.
become the reference product in this sector. Naramig/Amergeis
the Group’s newer migraine product. Zoviraxis used for the treatment of herpes infections such as
chicken pox, genital herpes, shingles and cold sores. The newer
Lamictalis a treatment for epilepsy. Used alone or in combination
anti-herpes compound, Valtrex, reinforces the Group’s presence
with other products, it has achieved penetration of this mature
inthis market as a treatment for zoster and the episodic and
market through successful treatment of severe cases.
long-term suppression of genital herpes.
Requipis a specific dopamine D2-like receptor for the treatment
ofParkinson’s disease. Metabolic and gastro-intestinal
Avandiais a potent insulin sensitising agent which acts on the
Zybanis a novel, nicotine-free prescription medicine, available
underlying pathophysiology of type 2 diabetes.
asasustained-release tablet, for treating the problem of
smokingaddiction. Zantac, for the treatment of peptic ulcer disease and a range
ofgastric acid related disorders, continues to play a major role in
Respiratory treatment in a number of markets, even where patent protection
Sereventis a long-acting bronchodilator, and Ventolina selective has been lost. Pylorid/Tritecis used, in combination with antibiotics,
short-acting bronchodilator, both for the treatment of asthma. for the eradication of helicobacter pylori, a causative agent
inulcers.
Flixotide/Floventand Becotide/Becloventare inhaled steroids for the
treatment of inflammation associated with bronchial asthma and
chronic bronchitis.
Seretide/Advair, a combination of Sereventand Flixotide, offers
along-acting bronchodilator and an anti-inflammatory in a single
inhaler.
Flixonase/Flonaseand Beconaseare intra-nasal preparations for the
treatment of perennial and seasonal rhinitis.
The Group’s respiratory products are now available in a wide
choice of delivery systems, including the Diskus/Accuhaler, a dry
powder multi-dose inhaler.Description of businessGlaxoSmithKline 09
Vaccines Sales in 2001 include sales of Block Drug products amounting to
GlaxoSmithKline markets a range of hepatitis vaccines. Havrix £594 million. Divested products include those which were divested
protects against hepatitis A and Engerix-Bagainst hepatitis B. due to the merger of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham.
Twinrixis a combined hepatitis A and B vaccine, protecting against
The major products are:
both diseases with one vaccine and available in both adult and
paediatric strengths. Category Product
Infanrixis a range of paediatric vaccine combinations. Infanrix Over-the-counter medicines
provides protection against diphtheria, tetanus and pertussis Analgesics Panadol
(whooping cough). Infanrix PeNta provides additional protection Dermatologicals Oxy
against hepatitis B and polio, andInfanrix HeXafurther adds Zovirax
protection against haemophilus influenzae type b, which Abreva
causesmeningitis. Gastro-intestinal Tums
Citrucel
Additionally GlaxoSmithKline markets Priorix,a measles, Respiratory tract Contac
mumps and rubella vaccine, Typherix, a vaccine for protection Beechams
against typhoid fever, and Varilirix, a vaccine against varicella or Smoking control Nicorette
chicken pox. NicoDerm CQ
NiQuitin CQ
Oncology and emesis Nicabate
Zofranis used to prevent nausea and vomiting associated with Vitamins and naturals Abtei
chemotherapy and radiotherapy for cancer, and is available in
Oral care Aquafresh
bothoral and injectable forms. It is also approved for use in the
Corega
prevention and treatment of post-operative nausea and vomiting.
DrBest
Hycamtinis a second line treatment both for ovarian cancer and Macleans
forsmall cell lung cancer. Odol
Polident
Cardiovascular Poligrip
Coregis an alpha/beta blocker which has been proven to be Sensodyne
effective intreating mild, moderate and severe heart failure.
Nutritional healthcare Horlicks
Lucozade
Arthritis
Ribena
Relafenis a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug for the treatment
of arthritis.
Over-the-counter medicines
The leading products are Panadol, a widely available non-aspirin
Other
analgesic; Nicorettegum; the Nicoderm,NiQuitinCQand
Other categories include the Group’s principal dermatological
Nicabaterange of smoking cessation patches; Tums, a calcium
products; Betnovate, thehigher potency Dermovateand the newer
based antacid; Citrucellaxative; Contacfor the treatment of colds
Cutivateare anti-inflammatory steroid products used to treat skin
and influenza, Abtei, a natural medicines and vitamin range;
diseases suchas eczema and psoriasis.
Oxyacne treatment and Zoviraxand Abreva for the treatment
of cold sores.
Divested products
In accordance with agreements for regulatory approvals of the
Oral care
merger between Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham, the
The leading oral care products are Aquafresh, Macleansand Odol
products Kytril, for the treatment of chemotherapy – and
toothpastes and mouthwashes and a range of toothbrushes sold
radiotherapy – induced nausea and vomiting, and Famvir, an
under the Aquafreshand Dr Bestnames. The acquisition of Block
anti-viral for the treatment of shingles and herpes, were divested
Drug in January 2001 added Sensodynetoothpaste and a range
inDecember 2000.
of denture care products available principally under the Polident,
Poligripand Coregabrand names.
Products – Consumer Healthcare
GlaxoSmithKline’s principal consumer products are presently Nutritional healthcare
directedto three major areas. An analysis of sales by these areas Lucozadeglucose energy and sports drinks; Ribenablackcurrant-
isset out below: based juice drink rich in vitamin C and Horlicks, a range of
milk-based malted food and chocolate drinks are the leading
2001 2000 1999
£m £m £m products in this category.
Over-the-counter medicines 1,603 1,454 1,434
Oral care 1,106 642 614
Nutritional healthcare 575 535 488
Divested products – 19 10
3,284 2,650 2,54610 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business
Operating environment
Competition – Pharmaceuticals Anti-bacterials and anti-malarials
Major products competing with GlaxoSmithKline’s semi-synthetic
The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive. GlaxoSmithKline’s
penicillins are other anti-infectives including, but not limited to,
principal competitors are large international pharmaceutical
generic brands, cephalosporins and, to an increasing degree,
companies with substantial resources. Some of these companies
particularly in Japan, quinolones. Augmentinhas been experiencing
and their major products are mentioned below.
increased competition in the USA, particularly from Pfizer’s
Pharmaceuticals may be subject to competition from different Zithromax, Bayer’s Cipro, and Johnson &Johnson’s Levaquin and
therapies during the period of patent protection and, once off has lost patent protection in various countries in Europe. The
patent, from generic versions. The manufacturers of generic success of Augmentinhas made it a target for generic
products typically donot bear research and development costs and manufacturers in the USA, against whom GlaxoSmithKline
consequently areable to offer their products at considerably lower continues to respond appropriately (see Note 30 to the Financial
prices than thebranded competitors. A research and development- statements, ‘Legal proceedings’). Amoxilhas been without patent
based pharmaceutical company will normally seek to achieve a protection for a number of years and is subject to competition from
sufficiently high profit margin and sales volume during the period generic brands. Malarone’s safety profile and convenient dosing
of patent protection to repay the original investment and to fund regimen have helped put this product in a strong position versus
research forthe future. Competition from generic products mefloquine following its recent launch for malaria prophylaxis.
generally occurs as GlaxoSmithKline’s patents in major markets
expire. Anti-virals
GlaxoSmithKline has a pioneering role in the HIV market, with
GlaxoSmithKline undertakes a range of activities, including:
Retrovirand Epiviracting as the cornerstone of combination
• introducing innovative products into as many markets as possible therapy, and available as Combivirin a single tablet. The launch of
• accelerating the process by which new products are brought Ziagen, Ageneraseand Trizivirhave broadened theGroup’s portfolio
tomarket of HIV products. Valtrexhas helped strengthen the company’s
• increasing brand recognition among customers. position in the anti-herpes area, although Zoviraxfaces competition
from generic aciclovir.
Ultimately, GlaxoSmithKline believes that its competitive position is
dependent upon the discovery and development of new products,
Metabolic and gastro-intestinal
together with effective marketing of existing products. Within the
The major competitor for Avandiais Takeda Chemical’s Actos, which
pharmaceutical industry, the introduction of new products and
is co-promoted with Eli Lilly in the USA. In the gastro-intestinal
processes by competitors may affect pricing levels or result in
market, Zantacfaces significant competition from omeprazole, a
product replacement, and there can be no assurance that
proton pump inhibitor, and from generic ranitidine hydrochloride.
GlaxoSmithKline’s products may not become outmoded,
notwithstanding patent or trademark protection. In addition,
Vaccines
increasing government and other pressure for physicians and
GlaxoSmithKline’s major competitors in the vaccine market include
patients to use generic pharmaceuticals rather than brand-name
Aventis Pasteur, Merck and Wyeth. Engerix-Band Havrixcompete
medicines may increase competition for products that have gone
with vaccines produced by Merck – Comvax and Recombivax HB for
off patent.
hepatitis B and Vaqta for hepatitis A. Infanrix’smajor competitors
are Aventis Pasteur’s Tripedia and TriHIBit, and Wyeth’s Acel-Imune
CNS disorders
and Tetramune.
Major competitors to Paxilin the US selective serotonin reuptake
inhibitor (SSRI) market are Prozac from Eli Lilly (generic fluoxetine
Competition – Consumer Healthcare
became available from August 2001), Zoloft from Pfizer and Forest
Laboratories’ Celexa. The success of Seroxat/Paxilhas made it a The major competitors in the consumer healthcare markets are
target for generic manufacturers, against whom GlaxoSmithKline the major international companies Procter & Gamble, Colgate-
continues to respond appropriately (see Note 30 to the Financial Palmolive, American Home Products, Unilever and Johnson &
statements, ‘Legal proceedings’). Johnson. In addition, there are many other large and small
companies that compete with GlaxoSmithKline in selected markets.
Imigranhas grown to be one of GlaxoSmithKline’s leading products
through addressing the previously unmet needs of migraine In the USA, the major competitor products in over-the-counter
sufferers. Although other companies have launched competing (OTC) medicines are: Tylenol Cold (cold remedy), Clearasil (acne
products, newer formulations of Imigran,such as the nasal spray, treatment), Pepcid (indigestion) and private label smoking cessation
and the introduction of Naramighave helped GlaxoSmithKline products. In the UK the major competitor products are: Lemsip (cold
to retain its lead over its competitors in the migraine market and remedy), Nurofen and Anadin (analgesics) and Nicotinell (smoking
maintain growth. cessation remedy).
In Oral care, Colgate-Palmolive, Procter & Gamble and Unilever are
Respiratory
the major international competitors.
The combined performance of GlaxoSmithKline’s Flixotide, Serevent
and the recently launched Seretide/Advair, have continued to drive In Nutritional healthcare the major competitors to Horlicksare
growth in this market. The established products such as Ventolin Ovaltine and Milo malted food and chocolate drinks. The competitors
and Becotidehave faced generic competition for some years to Ribenaare primarily local fruit juice products while Lucozade
but have maintained significant sales. A major competitor to competes with other energy drinks.
GlaxoSmithKline’s respiratory products in the USA is Singulair
GlaxoSmithKline holds leading global positions in all its key
from Merck.
consumer product areas. It is the second largest company
worldwide in both OTC medicines and Oral care, and the fifth
largest company worldwide in Nutritional healthcare.Description of businessGlaxoSmithKline 11
Regulation – Pharmaceuticals In the USA, debate over the reform of the healthcare system has
resulted in an increased focus on pricing. Although there are
The international pharmaceutical industry is highly regulated.
currently no government price controls over private sector purchases
National regulatory authorities administer a panoply of laws
in the USA, federal legislation requires pharmaceutical manufacturers
andregulations governing the testing, approval, manufacturing,
to pay prescribed rebates on certain drugs to enable them to be
labelling and marketing of drugs and also review the safety
eligible for reimbursement under Medicaid healthcare programmes.
andefficacy of pharmaceutical products. These regulatory
requirements are a major factor in determining whether a substance During 2001 the pharmaceutical market worldwide continued to
can be developed into a marketable product and the amount of experience increasing pressure on pricing and reimbursement from
time and expense associated with such development. governments and healthcare providers, though it is non-price factors
(new products and higher volumes) which are principally driving the
Of particular importance is the requirement in many countries that
growth of pharmaceutical expenditure.
products be authorised or registered prior to marketing and that
such authorisation or registration be maintained subsequently. In Europe, historically affected by government regulation in pricing
and reimbursement, the pharmaceutical industry continued to
The national regulatory authorities in many jurisdictions, including
experience pressure on its prices through a range of measures,
the USA, the European Union, Japan and Australia, have high
including across-the-board price cuts, linking of prices to low-cost
standards of technical appraisal and consequently the introduction
countries (price referencing) and delays in agreeing reimbursement.
of new pharmaceutical products generally entails a lengthy
There is an increasing pressure for generic substitution. In some
approvalprocess.
countries cross-border imports fromlow-priced markets exert a
In the European Union, there are two procedures for obtaining commercial pressure on in-countrypricing.
marketing authorisations for medicinal products:
In Japan discussions are ongoing as to which new price and
• The Centralised Procedure, with applications made direct to reimbursement controls the government will introduce.
theEuropean Medicines Evaluation Agency and leading to an
authorisation valid in all member states, is compulsory for Value for money
products derived from biotechnology and optional for new It is becoming increasingly necessary to demonstrate the value
activesubstances and other innovative medicinal products. formoney of new products, in particular the impact upon drug
• The Mutual Recognition Procedure, which is applicable to the budget expenditure and the burden of the disease that will be
majority of conventional medicinal products, operates by mutual treated. In some markets, the need to satisfy healthcare purchasers
recognition of national marketing authorisations; where as to value for money is becoming an additional hurdle for product
agreement cannot be reached, it is resolved by procedure of acceptance over and above the regulatory tests ofsafety, efficacy
binding arbitration. and quality. This can delay bringing effective and improved
medicines to the market and reduce their effective patent
Grant of a marketing authorisation affords the company a data
protection time.
protection period during which a competitor cannot rely on
confidential data in the regulatory file as a basis for its own In many markets it is becoming increasingly difficult for a significant
marketing authorisation. The data protection period begins on improved therapy to obtain a premium price over existing
thedate an authorisation is first granted in the European Union medication. Philosophies founded on value-based pricing are
andexpires after ten years for authorisations granted via the difficult to follow in such circumstances. In the USA it is still
Centralised Procedure, or ten or six years for authorisations possible to price products to reflect their value.
grantedvia the Mutual Recognition procedure, depending
onthecountry concerned. Future developments
It is not possible to predict whether, and to what extent, the
Across International markets (ie. countries outside USA and Europe),
Group’sbusiness may be affected by future legislative and
regulations and the regulatory environment continue to be
regulatory developments relating to specific pharmaceutical
extremely varied and challenging.
products or the pricing of such products.
GlaxoSmithKline anticipates that the introduction of new products
will continue to require substantial effort, time and expense to Regulation – Consumer Healthcare
comply with regulatory requirements.
The consumer healthcare industry is subject to national regulation
regarding the testing, approval, manufacturing, labelling and
Price controls
marketing of products. In many countries high standards of
In addition to the forms of regulation already referred to, in
technical appraisal entail a lengthy approval process before a new
manycountries the prices of pharmaceutical products are controlled
product is launched.
by law.
National regulatory authorisation is also required to approve the
Governments may also influence the prices of pharmaceutical
switch of products from prescription to OTC. The requirements
products through their control of national healthcare organisations
include long-term experience of the quality, safety and efficacy
which may bear a large part of the cost of supplying such products
oftheproduct in a wide patient population and data to confirm
to consumers.
thatthe relevant condition is both self-limiting and can easily be
In some countries, such as France and Japan, the prices of individual diagnosed bythe consumer.
products are regulated. In the UK, prices are controlled by reference
to limits upon the overall profitability, measured by the rate of
return on capital employed, of sales of products supplied under the
National HealthService.12 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business
Operating activities
Marketing and distribution Direct-to-consumer (DTC) advertising is a major component of
product marketing in the USA. DTC advertisements are now the
GlaxoSmithKline sells its products worldwide through an
primary source of information for patients requesting specific brand
extensivenetwork of subsidiaries, licensees and distributors.
name products from their physicians in the USA.
The gross profit margins earned on sales of pharmaceutical
Outside the USA, DTC is either prohibited or has a more limited
products are generally higher than those earned on sales of
rolein informing patients. In the European Union and in Canada,
consumer products, reflecting the many risks and uncertainties
DTC is currently prohibited. In Australia, the government allow DTC
inherent in developing and marketing pharmaceuticals. These risks
advertising of pharmacy-only products subject to certain safeguards.
include the high level of research and development expenditure
In New Zealand, DTC is allowed and self-regulated by the industry
required to discover, test and obtain patent protection for new
in collaboration with the Advertising Standards Agency. Other
products and the competition from new and generic products.
markets allow DTC, but to date the impact has been more limited.
GlaxoSmithKline’s worldwide business is subject to a number of
In addition to the direct marketing of products by its subsidiaries.
risks inherent in conducting business in certain countries, including
GlaxoSmithKline has entered into agreements withother
possible nationalisation, expropriation and other restrictive
pharmaceutical companies for the co-marketing and co-promotion
government actions such as capital regulation. In addition, currency
of its products in many markets.
fluctuations and other changes in economic conditions occur from
time to time, which can have either a favourable or unfavourable
Marketing and distribution – Consumer Healthcare
effect on trading income. GlaxoSmithKline does not regard these
factors as deterrents to further expansion of its international The principal markets for Consumer Healthcare’s OTC medicines are
operations. However, the company closely reviews its methods of the USA, the UK, Germany, Australia, Argentina, Italy, Mexico,
operation, particularly in developing countries, and develops Japan, Canada and France. The nutritional drinks business is
strategies to respond to changing economic and political conditions. particularly strong in the UK, Ireland and India, although the range
of products is available in other markets. The principal markets for
Marketing and distribution – Pharmaceuticals the Oral care products are the US, Germany and the UK.
An analysis of total pharmaceutical sales including, in 2000 and OTC and Oral care products are primarily distributed through
1999, divested products, by geographic region is set out below: pharmacy or mass market outlets directly or through wholesalers.
2001 2000 1999 Nutritional healthcare products are distributed through a similar but
Sales by geographic region £m £m £m
more extensive retail and wholesale network.
USA 9,037 7,705 6,276
Europe 4,561 4,268 4,288 Manufacture and supply
Rest of World:
GlaxoSmithKline has a large portfolio of products, ranging from
Asia Pacific 1,119 1,049 929
tablets and toothpaste to inhalers and complex capsules, in over
Japan 741 832 704
36,000 different pack sizes and presentations.
Latin America 790 682 636
Middle East, Africa 539 511 461 Manufacture of medicines begins with the development of a
Canada 418 382 324 therapeutic active ingredient (bulk active) in a selected formulation.
17,205 15,429 13,618 Global Manufacture & Supply (GMS) develops manufacturing
processes for full scale volume production of active compounds at
GlaxoSmithKline sells its prescription medicines primarily to 'primary' manufacturing sites. Converting active compounds into a
wholesale drug distributors, independent and chain retail finished dosage formulation is the responsibility of the 'secondary'
pharmacies, physicians, hospitals, clinics, government entities and manufacturing sites.
other institutions. These products are ordinarily dispensed to the
Following the merger between Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline
public by pharmacies through prescriptions written by physicians.
Beecham in December 2000, GMS operates as a single global
In the USA, the world’s largest pharmaceutical market, the network of 107 sites in 40 countries employing over 35,000
pressureto contain healthcare costs has encouraged the growth of people. Each year GMS produces around 5,900 tonnes of bulk
managed care organisations and pharmacy benefit managers. These actives and over 4.0 billion packs, which are packaged and
intermediaries use a range of methods to lower costs, including the delivered for sale in over 140 countries. Throughout the world it
substitution of generic products or other cheaper therapies for also supports approximately 2,000 new product and line extension
branded products prescribed by doctors. GlaxoSmithKline contracts launches a year.
with the managed care sector due to its increasing importance as a
GMS is focused on delivering:
supplier of healthcare to the community.
• a secure source of supply of high quality products
In each market, GlaxoSmithKline deploys salesforces of
• compliance with regulatory requirements and customer
representatives and supporting medical staff to promote its
expectations
prescription products to medical prescribers and healthcare
• best in class cost
purchasers through personal visits.
• leading edge practices and performance – at sites, in
Promotion of GlaxoSmithKline’s products is supplemented by procurement and in other global functions.
scientific seminars, advertising in medical and other journals,
television advertising, the provision of samples, the direct mailing
ofprinted material and information contained on the company’s
site on the World Wide Web.Description of businessGlaxoSmithKline 13
Organisation As part of the network rationalisation plan, production ceased
GMS operations are structured into Supply Chains and Regions. in 2001 at sites in seven countries, including Hungary, Sri Lanka
and Taiwan. The disposal or closure of a further six sites were
Antibiotics supply chain announced in the year.
This is a global organisation with 16 sites, spread across 10
countries. In total, around 4,800 staff are employed across all of External suppliers
these sites, where a broad range of antibiotic products are Procurement is a global function supporting all functions and areas
manufactured and packaged. of the GlaxoSmithKline business. Manufacturing is one of the
largest areas with over £2 billion spend with external suppliers every
Other actives supply chain year, including the purchase of active ingredients, chemical
The active ingredients of non-antibiotic products are produced at intermediates, part finished and finished products. GMS has taken
ten sites across the network, located in Australia, India, Ireland, appropriate steps to protect its supply chains from any disruption
Singapore, the UK and the USA. Approximately 3,600 staff are resulting from interrupted external supply through appropriate stock
employed in manufacturing and supplying these active ingredients levels, contracting and alternative registered suppliers.
to the secondary pharmaceutical sites in the regions.
Research and development – Pharmaceuticals
European region
The global biological and pharmaceutical Research and
There are 13 sites in the European region spread across seven
Development (R&D) function in GlaxoSmithKline is responsible for
countries employing around 8,300 people in total. Between them
discovering, developing, registering, commercialising and supporting
the European sites manufacture nearly all of the major
effective marketing of innovative prescription medicines, vaccines
pharmaceutical products marketed globally by GlaxoSmithKline in a
and delivery systems for the treatment and prevention of human
wide variety of finished dosage forms.
disease.
North America region Fundamental to this goal is a thorough understanding of the
There are three pharmaceutical sites in the North America region diseases under investigation, increasingly involving pioneering work
located in Puerto Rico, Canada and the USA. These sites employ ingenetics and predictive medicine as well as the more traditional
around 1,900 staff. research disciplines of pharmacology and medicinal chemistry. In
addition to the work to create new medicines and vaccines,
International region extensive efforts are made to gain a clear understanding of the
The International region comprises 35 manufacturing sites in unmet needs of patientsand of healthcare providers and payers as
19 countries spread across six distinct areas and employs around a contribution to the overall direction of R&D.
8,300 people. There are five sites in Middle East/Africa, 17 sites
In 2001 GlaxoSmithKline invested over £2.4 billion in
spread across the Asia Pacific area, four sites in China, two in Japan
pharmaceuticals R&D. Approximately 15,000 staff are involved in
and seven in Latin America.
biological and pharmaceutical R&D activities, at more than 20 sites
worldwide, including:
Vaccines supply chain
Vaccine production is located principally at Rixensart, Belgium and • UK: Beckenham, Brentford, Cambridge, Dartford,
at Dresden, Germany. These sites employ around 2,500 staff. Greenford, Harlow, Stevenage, Tonbridge, Ware,
Vaccines production operates as a separate network. Welwyn Garden City
• USA: Bristol, Tennessee; Philadelphia, Upper Merion and
Consumer Healthcare supply chain Upper Providence, Pennsylvania; Research Triangle
There are 30 Consumer Healthcare manufacturing sites spread Park, North Carolina
across 17 countries, employing around 7,000 staff. The seven sites • Belgium: Rixensart
added as a result of the January 2001 acquisition of Block Drug • Canada: Mississauga
have been incorporated into this supply organisation. The • France: Les Ulis, Evreux
Consumer Healthcare supply chain is diverse and includes the • Italy: Verona
manufacturing and supply of OTC medicines, Oral care, Nutritional • Japan: Tsukuba Science City and Takasaki
healthcare and smoking cessation products. • Spain: Tres Cantos, Madrid.
During the first year of merger and integration R&D has undergone
GlaxoSmithKline integration
significant changes but, despite this, progress with the portfolio has
The former Glaxo Wellcome Strategic Master Plan (SMP) and the
been maintained. A range of products across many therapeutic
SmithKline Beecham Global Supply Initiative (GSI) programmes,
areas has been delivered to the market and an extensive
which both focused on improvements to the overall site network,
programme of regulatory submissions in all markets worldwide has
have been consolidated into one GlaxoSmithKline programme
continued the progression of the portfolio through the development
in 2001.
cycle. In addition, an unprecedented in-licensing initiative has
This long term, integrated change programme is called the Global strengthened the pipeline, particularly in the later stages. Practical
Supply Network (GSN) and is structured to deliver benefits through management of the portfolio of compounds in development has
five major streams of activity: also been a focus, ensuring that GlaxoSmithKline R&D invests its
resource in projects that will achieve the optimum value.
• Reduction in above site infrastructure and costs
• Procurement initiatives
• Continued network rationalisation
• Logistics improvements
• Operational excellence and lean sigma improvements.14 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business
Product development pipeline
The product development pipeline, set out below shows considerable breadth and depth: at the end of 2001 GlaxoSmithKline had 161
pharmaceutical and vaccine projects in development, of which 118 are in the clinic.
Key
S: Date of first submission
A: Date of first Regulatory approval (for MAA, this is the first EU approval letter)
AL: Approvable letter
Compound Type Indication Phase MAA NDA
Antimicrobials & host defence
SB249417 anti-Factor IX monoclonal antibody severe sepsis & septic shock (also stroke) I
Augmentin(granules) beta lactam antibiotic respiratory tract infections I 2003 N/A
(incl. penicillin-resistant S. pneumoniae) –
modified release granule formulation
Augmentin beta lactam antibiotic respiratory tract infections (incl. penicillin-resistant I 2004 2004
S. pneumoniae) – once daily formulation
GR270773 phospholipid anti-endotoxin emulsion sepsis II
sitamaquine unknown treatment of visceral leishmaniasis III 2003 N/A
tafenoquine (SB252263) 8-aminoquinoline malaria prophylaxis (adults) III 2004 2004
Lapdap antifolate treatment of uncomplicated malaria III 2002 N/A
oxibendazole polymerase inhibitor treatment of adult & paediatric helminth III 2003 N/A
intestinal infections
Augmentin ES beta lactam antibiotic acute otitis media (incl. penicillin-resistant III N/A 2003
S. pneumoniae) – high-dose chewable tablet
Augmentin XR beta lactam antibiotic respiratory tract infections (incl. penicillin-resistant Submitted S:Dec00 S:Dec00
S. pneumoniae) – modified release formulation
Factive broad spectrum fluoroquinolone antibiotic respiratory & urinary tract infections – oral formulation Submitted S:Feb00 S:Dec99
Anti-viral
GW810781 (S-1360) 1 HIV integrase inhibitor HIV infections II
Ziagen/Epivir reverse transcriptase inhibitors HIV infection – combination tablet III 2003 2003
GW433908 protease inhibitor; Agenerase pro-drug HIV infection III 2002 2002
Valtrex/Zelitrex nucleoside analogue HSV suppression in immunocompromised patients III N/A 2002
Valtrex/Zelitrex nucleoside analogue prevention of HSV transmission III 2002 2002
Valtrex/Zelitrex nucleoside analogue cold sores Submitted N/A S:Nov01
Epivir reverse transcriptase inhibitor HIV infection – once daily dosing Approved A:Nov01 S:Aug01
Zeffix reverse transcriptase inhibitor paediatric hepatitis B Approved S:Jun01 A:Aug01
Cardiovascular & urogenital
GW590735 peroxisome proliferator-activator receptor dyslipidaemia I
(PPAR) agonist
GW501516 PPAR agonist dyslipidaemia I
SB249417 anti-Factor IX monoclonal antibody stroke (also severe sepsis & septic shock) I
SB480848 Lp-PLA2 inhibitor atherosclerosis I
GW473178 thrombin inhibitor prevention of stroke secondary to atrial fibrillation; II
prevention and treatment of venous thrombosis
GW660511 angiotensin converting enzyme-neutral hypertension II
endopeptidase inhibitor
talnetant (SB223412) tachykinin (NK3) antagonist urinary incontinence (also irritable bowel syndrome, II
COPD , cough and schizophrenia)
SB424323 indirect thrombin inhibitor prevention of stroke secondary to atrial fibrillation; II
prevention and treatment of venous thrombosis
SB207266 5HT antagonist atrial fibrillation II
4
SB237376 potassium-calcium channel blocker cardiac arrhythmia II
dutasteride (GI198745) 5-alpha reductase inhibitor alopecia (also BPH) II
Natrecor(nesiritide) 2 recombinant beta-type natriuretic peptide acute heart failure III 2002 N/A
Pritor(telmisartan) angiotensin II antagonist hypertension – in combination with hydrochlorothiazide Submitted S:Apr01 N/A
vardenafil 3 PDE-V inhibitor erectile dysfunction Submitted S:Jan02 S:Sep01
dutasteride 5-alpha reductase inhibitor benign prostatic hyperplasia (also alopecia) Approved S:Sep01 A:Nov01
Coreg beta blocker severe heart failure Approved N/A A:Nov01
Metabolic & musculoskeletal
GI181771 CCK-A agonist obesity I
GW427353 beta3 adrenergic agonist type 2 diabetes I
SB418790 beta3 adrenergic agonist type 2 diabetes & obesity I
GW320659 (1555U88) noradrenaline re-uptake inhibitor obesity (also attention deficit hyperactivity disorder) II TBD
ibandronate 4 bisphosphonate (3rd generation) postmenopausal osteoporosis III 2002 2002
Avandia+metformin PPAR gamma agonist plus metformin type 2 diabetes
combination tablet
Avandia PPAR gamma agonist type 2 diabetes – in combination with insulin Submitted AL:Feb01Description of businessGlaxoSmithKline 15
Compound Type Indication Phase MAA NDA
Neurology & gastro-intestinal
SB723620 corticotropin releasing factor (CRF-R1) irritable bowel syndrome (also anxiety & depression) I
antagonist
SB683698 (TR 14035) dual alpha4 integrin antagonist (VLA4) multiple sclerosis (MS) & inflammatory bowel disease I
(also asthma & RA)
GW493838 adenosine A1 antagonist neuropathic pain & migraine I
SB281832 p38 kinase inhibitor inflammatory bowel disease (also RA) I
talnetant (SB223412) tachykinin (NK3) antagonist irritable bowel syndrome (also urinary incontinence, I
COPD & cough)
GW406381 COX-2 inhibitor (second generation) pain including inflammatory pain I
SB271046 5HT antagonist Alzheimer’s Disease I
6
SB641257 (YH 1885) reversible proton pump antagonist gastro-esophageal reflux disease I
SB737004 (S-0139) 1 endothelin A antagonist haemorrhagic & ischaemic stroke II
SB737552 (S-8510) 1 benzodiazepine inverse agonist Alzheimer’s Disease & vascular dementia II
carabersat (SB204269) benzopyran epilepsy & migraine II
Imigran/Imitrex 5HT agonist migraine – needle-free injection II 2003 2003
1
ReQuip non-ergot dopamine agonist Parkinson’s disease – controlled release formulation II 2004 2004
ReQuip non-ergot dopamine agonist restless leg syndrome III 2003 2003
Lotronex 5HT antagonist irritable bowel syndrome Submitted N/A S:Dec01
3
(sNDA)
Imigran/Imitrex 5HT agonist adolescent migraine – nasal formulation Submitted S:Feb00 S:Dec99
1
Oncology
SB485232 recombinant human interleukin-18 immunologically-sensitive cancers (melanoma & renal cell) I
immunomodulator
GW572016 ErbB-2 and EGFR dual kinase inhibitor solid tumours I 2004 2004
SB251353 Groß-T CXC chemokine prevention of chemotherapy-induced cytopaenias I
GW120918 multi-drug resistance/breast cancer solid tumours I
resistant protein inhibitor
SB408075 tumour activated pro-drug colorectal cancer second line therapy & pancreatic
(maytansine-antibody conjugate) cancer first line therapy I
repifermin keratinocyte Growth Factor-2 mucositis (also wound care & inflammatory bowel disease) II
ethynylcytidine (SB596168) selective RNA polymerase inhibitor solid tumours II
Hycamtin topo-isomerase I inhibitor small cell lung cancer first line therapy II 2004 2004
Hycamtin topo-isomerase I inhibitor non-small cell lung cancer second line therapy III
Hycamtin topo-isomerase I inhibitor small cell lung cancer second line therapy – III 2003 2003
oral formulation
Hycamtin topo-isomerase I inhibitor ovarian cancer first line therapy III 2004 2004
Navelbine vinca alkaloid Non-small cell lung cancer – oral therapy III N/A 2002
Bexxar I131radiolabelled anti-B1 monoclonal Non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma Submitted N/A S:Sep00
antibody
Psychiatry
GW353162 noradrenaline/dopamine re-uptake depression & bipolar disorder I
inhibitor
talnetant (SB223412) tachykinin (NK3) antagonist schizophrenia (also for urinary incontinence,
irritable bowel syndrome, COPD & cough) I
SB723620 corticotropin releasing factor (CRF-R1) anxiety & depression (also irritable bowel syndrome) I
antagonist
GW468816 glycine antagonist smoking cessation I
GW597599 NK1 antagonist depression & anxiety I
SB271046 5HT antagonist schizophrenia (& Alzheimer disease) II
6
vilazodone SB659746A SSRI + 5HT1 partial agonist depression II 2004
a
(EMD 68843)
Lamictal sodium channel inhibitor bipolar disorder – acute treatment III N/A 2002
Lamictal sodium channel inhibitor bipolar disorder – long-term prophylaxis III 2002 2002
Wellbutrin XL (bupropion) aminoketone depression – CR formulation for once daily dosing III
Seroxat/Paxil CR selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitor premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD) – III TBD 2002
controlled release formulation
Seroxat/Paxil CR selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitor panic disorder – controlled release formulation Submitted TBD A:Feb02
Seroxat/Paxil selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitor post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) Approved A:Sep00 A:Dec0116 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business
Compound Type Indication Phase MAA NDA
Respiratory & inflammation
SB281832 p38 kinase inhibitor rheumatoid arthritis (also IBD) I
GW559090 alpha4 integrin antagonist (inhaled) asthma & upper respiratory inflammatory I
disease (URID)
SB273005 osteoclast vitronectin antagonist rheumatoid arthritis I
SB683698 (TR 14035) dual alpha4 integrin antagonist (VLA4) asthma & rheumatoid arthritis (also MS & IBD) I
GW328267 adenosine A2 agonist asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease II
(COPD), URID
talnetant (SB223412) tachykinin (NK3) antagonist COPD & cough (also for urinary incontinence, II
irritable bowel syndrome & schizophrenia)
mepolizumab (SB240563) anti-IL5 monoclonal antibody asthma & atopic dermatitis II
Ariflo PDE IV inhibitor COPD III 2004 2002
Flovent inhaled corticosteroid asthma – once daily dosing Submitted N/A S:Oct01
Flixotide/Flovent inhaled corticosteroid COPD Approved A:Sep99 S:May01
Non-CFC Metered Dose
Inhaler Propellants
(GR 106642)
Serevent beta2 agonist asthma & COPD III 2004 2004
Flixotide/Flovent inhaled corticosteroid asthma & COPD Approved A:Apr97 S:Feb02
Seretide/Advair beta2 agonist/inhaled corticosteroid asthma Approved A:Jun00 AL:Oct01
Diskus/Accuhaler(dry powder inhaler)
Seretide/Advair beta2 agonist/inhaled corticosteroid adult & paediatric asthma – once daily dosing III 2005 2003
Seretide/Advair beta2 agonist/inhaled corticosteroid COPD Submitted S:Sep01 S:May01
Seretide/Advair beta2 agonist/inhaled corticosteroid asthma – first line therapy Submitted S:Jun01 S:Apr01
Serevent beta2 agonist COPD Submitted 2002 S:May01
Ventolin beta2 agonist asthma Approved A:Dec95 AL:Jul00
Hepatitis vaccines
Hepatitis E recombinant hepatitis E prophylaxis II
Extra strength hepatitis B recombinant extra strength hepatitis B prophylaxis III 2002 TBD
(poor/non-responders)
Twinrix2 doses recombinant combined hepatitis A and B prophylaxis (child/adolescent) Submitted S:Jun01 2003
Paediatric vaccines
Rotarix live attenuated – oral rotavirus prophylaxis II
N. meningitidis A/C conjugated meningitis prophylaxis II 2004
Meningitis B (Cuba) subunit meningitis B prophylaxis II TBD
S. pneumoniae paediatric conjugated S. pneumoniae disease prophylaxis for children III 2004
MMR-varicella live attenuated measles, mumps, rubella and varicella prophylaxis III 2004 TBD
Infanrix PeNta-HepB-IPV recombinant diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, hepatitis B and
inactivated polio prophylaxis Approved A:Oct00 S:Jul99
Infanrix HeXa-Hep B- conjugated/recombinant diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, hepatitis B and Approved A:Oct00 TBD
IPV/Hib inactivated polio prophylaxis and Haemophilus
influenzae type B prophylaxis
Other vaccines
New influenza subunit influenza prophylaxis – new delivery I 2004
HIV recombinant HIV prophylaxis I
S. pneumoniae elderly conjugated S. pneumoniae disease prophylaxis I
Epstein-Barr virus recombinant EBV prophylaxis II
Malaria recombinant malaria prophylaxis II
Human papilloma virus recombinant prophylaxis of HPV infections II
Simplirix recombinant genital herpes prophylaxis II
Boostrix subunit adolescent/adult booster for diphtheria, tetanus Approved A:Oct00 2002
and pertussis
Pharmaccines
GW/PowderJect recombinant hepatitis B treatment I
SB M00026 recombinant treatment of chronic hepatitis B II
SB249553 recombinant treatment of lung cancer/melanoma II
1. Joint venture with Shionogi
2. License agreement with Scios Inc
3. Co-promotion with Bayer AG
4. Co-development & co-promotion with Roche
The content of the drug development portfolio will change over time as new compounds progress from discovery to development and
from development to the market. Owing to the nature of the drug development process, it is not unusual for some compounds, especially
those in early stages of investigation, to be terminated as they progress through development.
For competitive reasons, new projects in pre-clinical development have not been disclosed and some project types may not have been
identified.Description of businessGlaxoSmithKline 17
Compounds progressed into Phase I clinical development in 2001
During 2001 several discovery projects, listed in the table below, were progressed through non-clinical safety testing and into early (Phase I)
clinical development. These compounds are continuing their rigorous non-clinical, clinical and commercial assessments, leading to proof of
concept decisions over the next 12–18 months.
Compound Mechanism Indication
SB281832 p38 kinase inhibitor rheumatoid arthritis, asthma
exacerbations and inflammatory
bowel disease
GW328267 adenosine A2a agonist intranasal upper respiratory
inflammatory disease
GW353162 noradrenaline/dopamine reuptake inhibitor unipolar depression, bipolar disorder
SB480848 lipoprotein-associated phospholipase A2 inhibitor atherosclerosis
SB485232 Interleukin 18 melanoma carcinoma
GW493838 adenosine A1 agonist migraine, neuropathic pain
GW559090 alpha-4 integrin antagonist asthma (inhaled) and upper respiratory
inflammatory disease
GW590735 peroxisome proliferator activator receptor agonist dyslipidaemia
SB723620 corticotropin-releasing factor 1 antagonist unipolar depression, anxiety and
irritable bowel syndrome
Augmentin beta-lactam antibiotic and beta-lactamase inhibitor once-daily treatment of bacterial infections
Carabersat gap junction modulator epilepsy, migraine prophylaxis
Product approvals and submissions
In 2001 approvals were received for a number of new products, including several significant new indications and formulations for existing
products, as summarised in the table below.
Country/Region
Product (Approval date) Description
Alkeran USA (May) Reformulated tablet of the cytotoxic melphalan, for cancer
Augmentin ES-600 USA (June) Paediatric high dose (600/42.9mg/5ml) suspension formulation of
amoxicillin (a beta-lactam antibiotic) with clavulanate (a beta lactamase
inhibitor) for acute otitis media
Becotide Europe (July) Non-CFC, metered-dose device for the inhalation delivery of this
corticosteroid for the treatment of asthma
Boostrix European & other countries Combined diphtheria, tetanus and acellular pertussis vaccine for
(January – November) booster indication only
Coreg USA (November) Beta-blocker, carvedilol, for the treatment of severe heart failure
Deroxat (Seroxat) France (May) Selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitor for the treatment of social
anxiety disorder
dutasteride USA (November) 5-alpha reductase inhibitor for benign prostatic hyperplasia
Epivir Europe (November) Once daily presentation of the reverse transcriptase inhibitor, lamivudine,
for HIV
Flixonase Europe (May) Intra-nasal formulation of the corticosteroid fluticasone propionate, for
treating sinus pain and pressure
Influenza vaccine 2001-02 Europe (July – August) Influenza vaccine for the strains prevalent in 2001-02
Malarone Europe (April) Combination of atovaquone and proguanil for malaria prophylaxis
Paxil/Seroxat USA (April) Selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitor for the treatment of generalised
some European countries anxiety disorder
incl. UK (March-Sept)
Paxil/Seroxat some European countries Selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitor for the treatment of post-traumatic
incl. UK (February–July) stress disorder
USA (December)
Seretide Europe (January–June) Combination of salmeterol and fluticasone propionate in a non-CFC
metered dose inhaler for treating asthma
Twinrixadult USA (May) Combined hepatitis A and B vaccine, for adults
Ventolin USA (April) Non-CFC, metered-dose inhaler formulation of the bronchodilator
salbutamol, for treating asthma
Zeffix USA (August) Reverse transcriptase inhibitor, lamivudine, for the treatment of
hepatitis B, for paediatric use18 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business
A number of significant regulatory submissions were made in 2001 as set out below.
Product Region Description
Ambirix Europe A combined hepatitis A and B vaccine with a two-dose treatment regimen
dutasteride Europe 5-alpha reductase inhibitor for benign prostatic hyperplasia
dutasteride USA 5-alpha reductase inhibitor, two years’ data on benign prostatic hyperplasia
Epivir USA Lamivudine, a reverse transcriptase inhibitor, for the once daily treatment
of HIV
Flovent USA Fluticasonepropionate, an inhaled corticosteroid, for once daily dosing
in asthma
Flovent USA Treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
Myleran USA New tablet formulation of busulphan for cancer
Seretide/AdvairDiskus Europe and USA Combination of salmeteroland fluticasonepropionate in a Diskusas first
line therapy for asthma
Seretide/Advair Diskus Europe and USA Treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
Serevent Diskus USA Salmeterolfor the treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
telmisartan and hydrochlorthiazide Europe Fixed-dose combination of telmisartan (an angiotensin II antagonist)
and hydrochlorthiazide (a diuretic), for hypertension
Ultiva Europe Remifentanil, a short-acting opioid, for use as an anaesthetic in
intensive-care units
Valtrex USA Valaciclovir, a nucleoside analogue for the treatment of cold sores
Zeffix Europe and USA Lamivudine, a reverse transcriptase inhibitor for the paediatric treatment
of hepatitis B
In-licensing • Establishing a joint venture with Shionogi was completed; the
One focus during 2001 has been to identify compounds that would joint venture has exclusive rights to develop and commercialise
enhance our existing and future franchises and to create innovative selected compounds contributed by both companies. The initial
collaborations to ensure that GlaxoSmithKline is regarded as the compounds provided by Shionogi are S-1360 (GW810781), an
partner of choice for both large and small companies. The following HIV integrase inhibitor for HIV infection in Phase II; S-8510
compounds were the subject of in-licensing or co-promotion deals (SB737552), a benzodiazepine partial inverse agonist for
during 2001: Alzheimer’s disease and vascular dementia in Phase II; S-0139
(SB737004), an endothelin-A receptor antagonist for treating
• SB659746A, a mixed selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitor and
haemorrhagic and ischaemic stroke in Phase II, and S-1746
5HT1A receptor partial agonist, in Phase II for depression, in-
(SB737005), an AMPA/NMDA antagonist for stroke and head
licensed from Merck KGaA
injury in preclinical development.
• GR270773X, a phospholipid anti-endotoxin emulsion, in Phase II
for sepsis, in-licensed from Sepsicure • SB715992, a kinesin spindle protein inhibitor for the treatment
• a controlled-release formulation of bupropion (Wellbutrin), in of cancer, was in-licensed as part of an alliance with Cytokinetics
Phase III development for once-daily treatment of depression, centred on therapeutics targeting mitotic kinesins.
in-licensed from Biovail
• An agreement was also signed with Tanabe Seiyaku – a broad
• ibandronate, a bisphosphonate, in Phase III development for
ranging global collaboration for the research, development and
osteoporosis, for co-development and co-promotion with
commercialisation of a series of Tanabe pre-clinical compounds
Hoffman-La Roche
covering a range of potential therapeutic areas, including
• vardenafil, a selective phosphodiesterase-5 inhibitor for male
psychiatry, neurology, urology and diabetes.
erectile dysfunction to be co-promoted with Bayer AG
• nesiritide (Natrecor) a B-type natriuretic peptide in Phase III for • A research and development collaboration with 3M Drug
the treatment of acute heart failure, in-licensed for Europe from Delivery Systems (DDS) Division was initiated to formulate novel
Scios Inc. drugs to fight respiratory diseases such as asthma and chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
In addition, several broader collaborative initiatives were completed
in 2001, providing further in-licensed compounds: • Agreement was also reached with Inex Pharmaceuticals
Corporation to develop targeted cancer drugs that encapsulate
• GlaxoSmithKline signed a worldwide development and
GlaxoSmithKline's proprietary camptothecin anticancer agents
commercialisation agreement with Neurocrine Biosciences for
inside Inex’s drug delivery technology called Transmembrane
Corticotropin Releasing Factor Receptor antagonists (CRF-R1 and
Carrier System. The first drug that will be developed with Inex
CRF-R2), an entirely new class of compounds to treat psychiatric,
is Hycamtin.
neurological and gastro-intestinal diseases including anxiety,
depression and other mood disorders, and irritable bowel
syndrome. Neurocrine’s lead CRF-R1 antagonist (SB723620) is
currently in Phase I development.Description of businessGlaxoSmithKline 19
R&D Processes – Discovery, Commercialisation & Delivery In this regard, the integrated New Product Development function
combines responsibility for the clinical, regulatory and commercial
activities necessary to bring a new medicine to the marketplace.
Similarly, the creation of the New Product Supply organisation
bridges the traditional divide between Development and
Manufacturing, by taking responsibility for scale-up production and
Centres
Genetics Pre-clinical the subsequent manufacture of the physical product. Another
Research of Excellence Development New important step is that GlaxoSmithKline’s R&D in Japan will in future
Medicines
of Proven be fully integrated with the company’s global development and
for Drug Discovery
Discovery New Product Value commercialisation processes in order to eliminate work duplication
Research Development
"CEDDs" and to speed up regulatory filings. Plans for rationalising Discovery
work in Japan at the Tsukuba site and Development at the Takasaki
facility were agreed in 2001.
As part of the continuing focus on optimising the operational
effectiveness of R&D, during 2001, GlaxoSmithKline completed the
sale of Affymax, a drug discovery operation based in Santa Clara,
California, to a syndicate of venture capital firms. R&D also closed
sites in Rennes, France which was acquired by Bioproject and Milan,
Intellectual property
validated targets Drugs Products Italy which became the location of NiKem Research, a new company
and leads
created by the demerger of the former local GlaxoSmithKline
medicinal chemistry group.
R&D processes
In line with GlaxoSmithKline's strategic intent to become the Early research and the role of genetics
indisputable leader in the industry, R&D has set itself the goal of The early stages of finding new medicines requires essentially two
becoming the most productive R&D organisation in the industry. components: targets that can be shown to affect mechanisms of
important pathological processes in human disease (i.e. a target)
GlaxoSmithKline R&D measures this productivity, not just by the
and compounds, typically small molecules but also including
number and innovativeness of the products it creates, but also by
macromolecules, protein therapeutics and vaccines, able to
their value. Commercial value is a measure of the product's ability
modulate the behaviour of that target. GlaxoSmithKline's heritage
to address the unmet needs of healthcare customers, including
from SmithKline Beecham and Glaxo Wellcome in genomics and
patients, healthcare professionals, budget holders and regulators,
genetics research means that the company is well-placed to select
each with their own perspective on what constitutes a valuable
from the human genome this sub-set of therapeutically-relevant
new product. R&D is now positioned to ensure that it generates the
targets and hence to focus its early-stage research efforts.
right information to respond to these different perspectives, i.e.
safety, efficacy and quality information, and also data As part of this target validation process, GlaxoSmithKline aims to
demonstrating the overall reductions in healthcare utilisation as a identify the genes most relevant to common diseases with large
result of the use of the new medicine, increased length or quality of unmet medical needs, such as asthma, non-insulin dependent
life, and increased workplace productivity. diabetes, migraine, osteoarthritis, metabolic syndrome, depression,
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, early onset heart disease
In order to implement operationally this drive towards product value
and Alzheimer’s disease. Many diseases arise through complex
as the primary objective of R&D, GlaxoSmithKline has in 2001
interactions between a number of gene variants and environmental
implemented the many R&D processes devised during the merger
factors, so the challenge involved in unravelling this picture should
planning period in 2000, especially those designed to eliminate the
not be under-estimated. Nevertheless, identifying the genes that
traditional barriers between successful R&D and successful
predispose patients to a particular disease and understanding their
commercialisation. This allows the value of each asset to be
role in disease progression leads to the identification of new ways
maximised through consistent prioritisation and strategic direction
to intervene in these diseases.
from the earliest stages of R&D, up to product launch and
subsequent life-cycle management.
Discovery Research
The key to GlaxoSmithKline’s R&D organisation is the development The purpose of Discovery Research (DR) is to identify lead
of a design philosophy that enables both the leverage of critical compounds that can form the basis of new drug discovery efforts
mass in areas such as research and clinical development where this in the Centres of Excellence for Drug Discovery (CEDDs). Investment
creates a strategic advantage and the focused, agile structure in in DR is focused on improving both the quality and the number of
Drug Discovery commensurate with an entrepreneurial approach to lead compounds produced. To this end, R&D began building new
ensure the most efficient and rapid validation of lead candidates automation facilities at Tres Cantos and Harlow in 2001 and
through preclinical testing against proof of concept criteria. completed plans for a facility at Upper Providence. Conducting
pharmacological exploration of the effects of new compounds
with similar speed, capacity and degree of automation is more
challenging, but substantive progress has been made in 2001 in
implementing such “high throughput biology” plans. This new
discipline can also help determine the most relevant therapeutic
applications of new drugs modulating pathological mechanisms
that may underpin several different diseases.20 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business
Crucial to the success of R&D will be its capacity to embrace and Preclinical Development
develop new technologies to streamline the Drug Discovery process. The scientific and technical activities that support the work of
Through the establishment of the new Technology Development Discovery Research, the CEDDs and New Product Development are
organisation, R&D will keep abreast of emerging technologies that collected within Preclinical Development. This grouping
may advance the creation of new medicines, evaluate those encompasses disciplines developing an understanding of how
technologies and then provide the investment and knowledge compounds are absorbed into the body through pharmacokinetics
required to develop selected technologies to best advantage. As and pharmacology and how they will then be metabolised as well
R&D generates and modifies technologies, it will not only focus as establishing the probability of either short-term or long-term
them on GlaxoSmithKline's own internal goals but also maximise toxicological effects. Additionally, the Chemical Development
the return on R&D assets through sales, spin-outs and out-licensing. Division is responsible for the definition of an efficient synthesis
mechanism for the candidate molecules from the minute quantities
Centres of Excellence for Drug Discovery required for initial testing to the appropriate scale to support
The two crucial steps in converting lead compounds into drug commercialisation. The pharmaceutical development of the final
candidates are (i) optimising the lead for potency, selectivity, dosage form and its testing to establish optimum quality standards
efficacy, safety and other intrinsic characteristics of the molecule, under the storage conditions that are experienced around the world
and (ii) demonstrating the validity of the therapeutic hypothesis is also performed in this organisation.
through early clinical trials of the resulting candidate molecule. As
The efficient delivery and rapid worldwide uptake of our new
part of the merger, GlaxoSmithKline established six innovative
products are closely linked to their ease of manufacture. Such issues
CEDDs to take responsibility from Lead Optimisation through to
as scale-up and manufacturing technology are considered at an
Proof of (therapeutic) Concept, each focusing on specific disease
early stage of product development, so that the process of moving
areas. The CEDDs are designed to be nimble, entrepreneurial,
from small-scale production of experimental materials for early
largely autonomous matrix teams with the range of skills and scale
clinical studies through to large-scale industrial manufacturing for
of resources required to drive mid-stage development projects
product supply can be fast and efficient. This is the responsibility of
through to their key decision-point, before major investments are
New Product Supply, a partnership between R&D and Global
made to fund large-scale (Phase III) clinical trials.
Manufacturing and Supply. The partnership ensures that the
The disease responsibilities of the three USA based CEDDs were re- Development organisation delivers a product that has already been
aligned in 2001 in order to increase their focus and increase the optimised in terms of large-scale commercial manufacturing.
efficient use of resources:
New Product Development
• Cardiovascular & Urogenital Diseases, centred in Upper Merion
To provide focus for the development and commercialisation
• Metabolic & Viral Diseases, centred in Research Triangle Park
process, which must proceed in unison, all the major functional
• Microbial, Musculoskeletal & Proliferative Diseases, including
components, Medical, Regulatory and Product Strategy, have been
cancer, centred in Upper Merion and Upper Providence.
integrated into this single management organisation. There are six
These CEDDs are complemented by three in Europe: cross-functional Therapeutic Area Strategy Teams, each covering
one group of diseases:
• Neurology, centred in Harlow (UK)
• Psychiatry, centred in Verona (Italy) • Cardiovascular, Urogenital and Metabolic
• Respiratory, Inflammation and Respiratory Pathogens, centred in • Infectious Diseases including Developing World Diseases
Stevenage (UK). • Neurology & Gastro-intestinal
• Oncology, Musculoskeletal and Inflammation
The CEDDs' autonomy includes the freedom to select their new
• Psychiatry
compounds from either internal or external sources, which
• Respiratory.
reinforces the close integration of GlaxoSmithKline's in-licensing
function (Business Development) as a part of the R&D organisation. These matrix teams are responsible for maximising the worldwide
Each CEDD is then responsible for selecting the optimal candidate development opportunities for each product within their remit. They
from a series of similar chemical compounds and for ensuring this work to ensure that there is alignment between regional marketing
candidate is safe in animal models and can be developed from a needs and the clinical and commercial information generated for a
technical perspective. Once this is achieved, the CEDDs are new product as it is developed. The teams also collaborate at an
responsible for proving that the compound is safe and efficacious in early stage with the CEDDs to define target product profiles for
patients – the proof-of-concept or provision-of-confidence decision new molecules and with integrated technical development and
point. A decision is then made on the basis of the information manufacturing functions to ensure rapid, effective launch and
generated to date to progress the compound into late stage drug delivery of the product.
development where the necessary large-scale clinical trials are
Genetic research again becomes highly informative at the stages
conducted to successfully register and commercialise the product.
when a drug candidate enters clinical trials, and indeed after launch
At this point, responsibility for the project passes to cross-functional
and the more extensive use that this brings. Such research can
teams led by members of New Product Development.
elucidate the genetic basis that underpins the variable responses
As part of GlaxoSmithKline's major response to the challenges of (both with regard to therapeutic efficacy and side-effects) seen for
diseases affecting the developing world, the Microbial, Musculoskeletal some medicines. Knowing this can enable healthcare providers to
& Proliferative Diseases CEDD will have responsibility for a new drug prescribe medicines more accurately and more safely.
discovery unit, based at Tres Cantos in Spain and dedicated to
finding new medicines to treat these diseases.Description of businessGlaxoSmithKline 21
Discontinuations Animals and research
All research and development carries a risk of failure commensurate For ethical, regulatory and scientific reasons, research using animals
with the extension of scientific knowledge of a compound and its remains a small but vital part of the research and development of
effects. Not all lead compounds that are identified to possess new medicines and vaccines. Animals are only used where no
positive activity against a validated target will prove to be safe alternative is available and GlaxoSmithKline constantly aims to
enough to introduce to humans or feasible to manufacture on a reduce the numbers used. GlaxoSmithKline strives to exceed
commercial scale. GlaxoSmithKline R&D endeavours to ensure that industry standards in the care and welfare of the animals it uses:
as far as possible these risks are ameliorated by extensive predictive laboratory animals are usually bred specifically for research and are
testing as early as possible in the development process. During well cared for throughout their lives by qualified, trained staff.
2001 a number of new activities in Genetics Research, Discovery When animals are used in research unnecessary pain or suffering
Research and Preclinical Development were initiated to establish isscrupulously avoided.
and validate leading-edge predictive toxicology that will enable
GlaxoSmithKline is actively engaged in research to develop and
optimisation of the early portfolio through informed decision-
validate experimental methods that can provide more and better
making prior to large-scale investment of effort and resources.
alternatives to the use of animals in research.
Despite these efforts, the ultimate test for a product remains the
point at which it is administered to large numbers of patients with GlaxoSmithKline acknowledges that use of animals for research
the disease. purposes is a subject of enormous sensitivity that rightly commands
a high level of public interest. The full GlaxoSmithKline Public
Review of the data from the Phase IIIa trial for tranilastshowed no
PolicyPosition 'The Care and Ethical Use of Animals in Research'
benefit over placebo. No further development of this compound
isavailable to the public on the company internet site:
will therefore take place.
www.gsk.com/tomorrow/animals.htm, or on request from the
A review of data on GI262570, a peroxisome proliferator activated Company Secretary.
receptor (PPAR) agonist, in Phase III clinical trials for the treatment
of type 2 diabetes indicated that it did not meet the target profile Research and development – Consumer Healthcare
that had been established. Further development of the product
The principal centres for Consumer Healthcare research and
for diabetes has been terminated but work is ongoing for other
development are in the UK and in the USA. The focus of R&D is
indications.
on the identification and rapid development of novel products that
Other late-stage projects terminated during 2001 were the bring significant health benefits to consumers in the OTC, Oral care
development of a micronised preparation of the non-steroidal and Nutritional healthcare markets. Consumer Healthcare liaises
anti-inflammatory drug nabumetone, for treating osteo-arthritis closely with Pharmaceuticals to maximise the Group’s assets, where
and pain, a therapeutic antigen disabled infections single cycle prescription products can also find application in the OTC
vaccine for the treatment of herpes and a nebuliser formulation of marketplace.
Flixotide, the inhaled corticosteroid fluticasone propionate, for acute
paediatric asthma.
Research collaborations
GlaxoSmithKline has entered into a number of agreements with
third parties to co-develop and then co-market certain compounds.
These arrangements range from milestone payments to third parties
to acquire rights to their intellectual property, to joint ventures to
develop and commercialise specified compounds. Under many of
these agreements the Group has obligations to make payments in
the future if specified milestones are achieved. These financial
commitments are summarised in Note 26 to the Financial statements
‘Commitments’.
Vaccines R&D
Worldwide vaccines R&D is conducted by the Biologicals team
located principally at Rixensart, Belgium. As part of the
Pharmaceuticals sector, this team follows an essentially similar
approach to development for vaccines.22 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business
Operating resources
Intellectual property Lamictal. The patents on the active ingredient lamotrigine are not
due to expire until 2008ain the USA (2009 by virtue of paediatric
GlaxoSmithKline regards its intellectual property as a key business
exclusivity) and 2005bin Europe.
asset and the effective legal protection of its intellectual property as
a key element in ensuring an effective return on its investment in Retrovir.Basic patents on the active ingredient zidovudine have
R&D. Intellectual property can be protected by patents, trade marks, expired. Patents covering pharmaceutical formulations containing
registered designs, copyrights and domain name registrations. zidovudine and their medical use are not due to expire until 2006 in
GlaxoSmithKline regards its patent and trade mark rights as the USA and in Europe.
particularly valuable.
Epivir.The patents on the active ingredient lamivudine are not due
to expire until 2009 in the USA and 2011bin Europe.
Patents
GlaxoSmithKline’s policy is to obtain patent protection on all Combivir.The patents on the specific combination of lamivudine
significant products discovered or developed through its R&D and zidovudine are not due to expire until 2012 in the USA and
activities. Patent protection for new active ingredients is available in 2013bin Europe.
all significant markets. In addition, protection can also be obtained
Valtrex. The patents on the active ingredient valaciclovir are not due
for new pharmaceutical formulations and manufacturing processes
to expire until 2009ain the USA and 2009bin Europe .
as well as for new medical uses and special devices for
administering products. Ziagen. The patents on the active ingredient abacavir are not due
to expire until 2011ain the USA and 2014bin Europe.
GlaxoSmithKline continues to have patent protection for one or
more forms of its key pharmaceutical products in major markets Zofran. The patents on the active ingredient ondansetron are
and, in addition, has obtained patents or anticipates that patent not due to expire until 2005 in the USA and 2005bin Europe.
protection will be granted for new products that are in Patents on use for emesis expire in 2006. GlaxoSmithKline has
development. initiated legal action under these patents against generic
manufacturers in the US.
The patent position with respect to significant products is as follows:
Seretide/Advair.The patents on the specific combination of active
Paxil/Seroxat.The patent protecting the commercial form of
ingredients salmeterol and fluticasone propionate are not due to
Paxil/Seroxatis not due to expire, in most major markets, until
expire until 2010 in the USA and 2013bin Europe
2006. However, GlaxoSmithKline has initiated patent infringement
litigation in the USA and Europe against a number of generic Avandia.The patents on the active ingredient rosiglitazone maleate
manufacturers who are attempting to launch their own versions of are not due to expire until 2015 in the USA and 2013bin Europe.
the product prior to this patent expiry.
Serevent. Patents on the active ingredient salmeterol xinafoate are
Augmentin.The basic patent on the key active ingredient potassium not due to expire until 2005bin most of Europe (2008b in France
clavulanate has expired in all markets except the USA (2018) and and 2012bin Italy) and until 2008 in the USA.
Italy (2007). The US patents providing protection until 2018 are
In common with many other companies, GlaxoSmithKline is
currently under legal challenge in the US courts.
routinely engaged in legal disputes in defence of patent rights on
Flixotide/Floventand Flixonase/Flonase.In the USA the patent on its products (see Note 30 to the Financial statements, ‘Legal
the active ingredient fluticasone propionate expires in 2003, but Proceedings’)
protection is expected to be extended by virtue of paediatric
exclusivity until May 2004. In most European countries the patents Trade marks
are not due to expire until 2005b. All of GlaxoSmithKline’s pharmaceutical products are protected by
registered trade marks in major markets. In general the same mark
Wellbutrin SR andZyban.Patents on the basic active ingredient
is used for a product in each market around the world, but there
have expired. Various formulation patents protect the currently
may be local variations, for example in the United States the trade
marketed SR formulations, the latest of which are not due to expire
mark Paxilis used instead of Seroxatand Advairis used instead of
in the USA until 2013. These patents are under legal challenge in
Seretide.
the UScourts. In Europe, regulatory data exclusivity additionally
provides protection until at least 2005, and until 2009 in some Trade mark protection may generally be extended for as a long as
countries. the trade mark is used by renewing it when necessary.
GlaxoSmithKline’s trade marks on pharmaceutical products generally
Zinnat/Ceftin. The patents on the active ingredient cefuroxime
assume an increasing importance when the patent for that product
axetil have generally expired or will expire during or after 2002 in
has expired in a particular country and generic versions of the
those European countries where the patent has been extended.
product become available.
The patents on the specific amorphous form used in the
GlaxoSmithKlineproduct are not due to expire until during or In the Consumer Healthcare business trade marks are particularly
after 2003. GlaxoSmithKline has initiated legal action under these important, as the business is very brand orientated and many
patents against two generic manufacturers in the USA. products do not have patent protection.
Imigran/Imitrex. The patents on the active ingredient sumatriptan GlaxoSmithKline is routinely engaged in legal disputes in defence
are not due to expire until 2008 in the USA and 2006bin Europe. of its trade mark rights, and takes action against companies found
infringing versions of its products.
a Including extension of term
b Including extension of term by supplementary protection certificate.Description of businessGlaxoSmithKline 23
Information technology Enhancing business performance
Virtually all GlaxoSmithKline’s major business processes rely heavily
Information technology plays three strategic roles in
on the use of information technology. There are major programmes
GlaxoSmithKline. It:
to capture key information, at source, in electronic form and make
• facilitates communication and access to information on a it available wherever required.
global basis
Improving the quality and potential value of the molecules that
• supports key business processes at the local, regional,
move from discovery to development is a key aim of R&D. IT has
functional and global levels
developed web-based tools that provide chemists and biologists
• enables the transformation and extension of key business
with the information they need on candidate medicines. This is
activities.
information such as the targets against which a molecule has been
As well as computer infrastructure, hardware and software, the IT tested, the results that were obtained, what is unique about the
organisation is responsible for voice and video technologies, molecule, and what other molecules might have similar
monitoring business and technology trends that could have an IT characteristics. In this way, early-phase R&D teams can draw up
impact on GlaxoSmithKline, and preparing the company for the short lists of molecules for consideration as possible treatments for
risks associated with modern information technology. specific diseases faster than before and with more confidence in the
qualities of the shortlist. Other areas in R&D where IT is playing an
Throughout the year, IT has focused on helping business units to
important role are high-throughput biology, laboratory automation,
achieve their merger synergies and on establishing the networks
imaging, electronic data capture, and document, knowledge and
and systems for the new company. Whenever possible, one of the
clinical data management.
legacy companies’ systems has been selected for GlaxoSmithKline,
not a combination. Completing critical systems integration and Work began to extend the Manufacturing Enterprise Resources
meeting synergy targets will remain the highest priority for IT in Planning Solution over the next four to five years. The ability to
theshort-term. consolidate mission critical operations in this way reflects the
growing availability and reliability of global data networks. It
Within Consumer Healthcare, the integration of the Block Drug
ensures that GlaxoSmithKline will have compliant systems in place
business with GlaxoSmithKline systems was achieved within
with common processes.
sixmonths of the acquisition and led to an over 60 per cent
reduction in combined IT costs. In the USA, ways have been identified to improve the speed of
data delivery from vendors and to streamline IT data processing.
Financial data and systems in all European countries adopting the
This will reduce by 30 per cent the time taken to provide retail
Euro as the base currency were converted in readiness for the
prescription data and reports to the business. As a result, sales
January 2002 introduction.
representatives and managers will be able to make faster and
better informed decisions.
Communication and access to information
The importance to GlaxoSmithKline of the Internet and the internal
Transforming and extending business activities
intranet continues to grow. Internal web-sites allow information to
Insights gained from genomics and proteomics are transforming the
be shared across the company on a global basis and are supported
way that disease targets are identified and validated. Information
by search engines analogous to those used externally on the
obtained from a variety of external sources needs to be integrated
Internet. The ability to provide shared access to information has
with internally generated information in a rapid and flexible manner
enabled the growing use of ‘virtual teams’, which work
that relies heavily on information technology support. The analysis
collaboratively, spanning multiple geographies and time zones,
of these databases also requires significant amounts of processing
often subject to stringent time constraints. GlaxoSmithKline’s
power, taking full advantage of advances in computer technology.
intranet has adopted a portal strategy in order to assist employees
to choose and receive the information they most need. Access to information for regulatory agencies, clinical opinion
leaders, healthcare professionals, patients and the public has been
Information is exchanged electronically with a broad array of
enhanced in a number of markets. Steps have been taken to reduce
suppliers, customers and partners. Hence protection against
reliance on paper based processes for clinical trials and registration
unauthorised access to information assets and the growing risks
of new medicines through use of wireless, handheld technologies as
posed by computer viruses is a major issue.
well as the internet.
The telephone and video conferences that are a familiar aspect of
business life are being complemented by computer-based GlaxoSmithKline people
collaborative working and screen-sharing tools that help teams
GlaxoSmithKline people are fundamental to the current and future
respond to the practical challenges posed by operating in a global
success of the business. Their skills and intellect are key
organisation. Enabling GlaxoSmithKline knowledge workers to be
components in the successful implementation of sound business
more productive is a key goal for IT. A standard desktop has been
strategy. It is GlaxoSmithKline’s human capital that maximises the
adopted globally, which will assist IT to support employees’ use of
potential of the Group’s scientific, commercial and financial assets.
software more efficiently.
The outcome of effective human resources policy is GlaxoSmithKline’s
solid reputation as an international employer of choice.
As an employer of choice, the Group initiated Candidate Care –
the commitment to seeking and acquiring the best employment
candidates who reflect a diversity of background, experience
and perspective and who can contribute most to the success
of GlaxoSmithKline.24 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business
Performance and reward Executive development programmes have been designed to identify
The importance of people must translate into employment practices and prepare the talent required to grow the business worldwide.
that demonstrate the value of each individual. Compensation and These programmes develop skills in areas key to future business
benefit packages (GlaxoSmithKline’s TotalReward) are competitive, success: entrepreneurialism, strategic insight, global mindset,
innovative, and either global or local in orientation, depending on cross-functional/cultural collaboration and competitive intelligence.
what best drives business performance and rewards individual They are innovative, based on peer interaction and idea exchange,
contribution. and contribute to strategy deployment.
Compensation philosophy and programme development underscore
Human Resources services and information systems
GlaxoSmithKline’s commitment to a performance culture.
Human Resources services and information are delivered through
Performance-based pay (base and variable), share awards, share
low cost, highly effective channels that make it easy for job
options, performance and development planning and evaluation
candidates, employees, and retirees to access information about
contribute to retention of key talent, superior performance and
employment, compensation and benefits, policies and programmes.
accomplishment of business targets.
GlaxoSmithKline’s human resource delivery strategy is designed to
A commitment to flexible working (flex-time, teleconferencing, make the most of the technology available today, to deliver valuable
remote working and flexible work schedules) recognises that information to employees at their convenience, and to allow them
employees work best in an environment that helps them integrate to return to work quickly. Comprehensive content and core
their work and personal lives. transactions are delivered through intuitive, personalised web-based
tools, available to employees in many locations. For example, in the
Communication and involvement USA, employees may be supported through the Employee Response
An extensive range of communications programmes stimulates Center, a state-of-the-art call centre which provides information and
involvement in GlaxoSmithKline goals and progress, including services.
presentations of business results, Group-wide magazines, site
newspapers, videos, recorded voice mail messages from senior Property, plant and equipment
executive officers and access to the GlaxoSmithKline intranet.
GlaxoSmithKline has operating establishments in some 70 countries.
All of these tools have facilitated the successful integration of
The geographical spread of the Group‘s activities is indicated in
the two companies into one company.
Note 37 to the Financial statements ‘Principal Group companies’.
Share ownership schemes encourage participation as owners of the GlaxoSmithKline conducts research and development at more than
business, increasing awareness of short and long-term business 20 sites and manufactures product at more than 100 sites in 40
objectives. Global and local employee opinion surveys allow countries. Refer to ‘Research and development – Pharmaceuticals’
employees the opportunity to express their views and perspectives (page 13) and ‘Manufacture and supply’ (page 12).
on important company issues.
GlaxoSmithKline has invested some £4 billion in its property, with
acarrying value in the financial statements of £2.7 billion, with a
Diversity
further £2.7 billion at carrying value invested in plant and equipment.
The company wide Diversity Strategy focuses on creating an
In2001 GlaxoSmithKline invested £1 billion in new andrenewal
inclusive work environment that benefits employees, customers,
property, plant and equipment. Property is mainly heldfreehold.
and stakeholders. The approach aims to enhance employee
New investment is financed from existing Group liquid resources.
innovation and productivity by valuing and drawing on the
At 31st December 2001 the Group had contractual commitments
differing knowledge, perspectives, experiences and styles resident
for future expenditure of some £480 million and in 2002 operating
in the global community. The Diversity Initiative is lead by the
lease commitments of £105 million.
Corporate Executive Team. Jack Ziegler, President Consumer
Healthcare, is the sponsor of this key objective: to create and GlaxoSmithKline’s business is science-based, technology-intensive
communicate diversity strategies that measurably improve employee and highly regulated by governmental authorities. GlaxoSmithKline
attraction, development and retention. allocates significant financial resources to the renewal and
maintenance of its property and plant to minimise risks of
GlaxoSmithKline remains committed to employment policies which
interruption of production and to achieve compliance with
do not discriminate against potential or existing staff on the
regulatory standards. The research and development and
grounds of colour, race, ethnic and national origin, gender, marital
manufacture of active pharmaceutical ingredient require the use
status, religious beliefs or disability.
ofchemicals and hazardous materials. GlaxoSmithKline observes
stringent procedures and uses specialist skills to manage
Leadership development and talent management
environmental risks from these activities. Environmental issues,
Comprehensive leadership development opportunities are available
sometimes dating from operations now modified or discontinued,
to employees at all levels. These opportunities are targeted to help
are referenced under ‘Environmental responsibility’ (page 25) and in
leaders meet the challenges they face in a global economy and in
Note 30 to the Financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’.
a matrixed organisation. They ensure GlaxoSmithKline’s leadership
motivates and enables teams and individuals to do their best work. GlaxoSmithKline believes that its facilities are adequate for its
Development planning is a key element in overall performance current needs. The integration of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline
planning each year. Beecham operations has involved a series of announcements of
rationalisation and potential disposal of a number of sites and
properties. It is considered that there will be further changes.Description of businessGlaxoSmithKline 25
The business and the community
Performance with integrity Integrating environment, health and safety planning into decision-
making on manufacturing processes, packaging design and product
For the first time GlaxoSmithKline is producing a social and
labelling helps differentiate products and protect and extend their
environmental review entitled “Performance with Integrity” which
lives.
will incorporate information about the most pressing issues that are
core to our business and have generated significant interest from As a global corporate citizen GlaxoSmithKline demonstrates its
external shareholders. These include medicines for the developing responsibility by implementing global standards, guidelines, targets
world, community investment, the environment and health and and management systems and by auditing and reporting publicly
safety. “Performance with Integrity” will be available from the and openly on performance. It seeks dialogue with external
Secretariat at the company’s head office and on the company web stakeholders and considers their views when developing approaches
site at www.gsk.com in May. Information made available on the to EHS management.
web site does not constitute part of this document.
GlaxoSmithKline’s operations must achieve legal compliance with
EHS regulations and continuously improve performance particularly
Environmental responsibility
in the areas of accident prevention, waste minimisation and
The environment, health and safety (EHS) section of “Performance emissions reductions. It seeks to align business processes, ensuring
with Integrity” will incorporate information about the Group’s that EHS is incorporated into all planning, decision-making,
environmental responsibility as well as covering issues, programmes budgeting, training, and communications.
and performance.
Although the Group makes ongoing capital expenditures for
environmental protection equipment, as well as cash expenditures
Environment, health and safety management
for site remediation and operation and maintenance of
Successful management of environment, health and safety is a high
environmental facilities, it does not anticipate any such expenditures
priority for GlaxoSmithKline. During the company’s first year, the
to have a material impact upon the Group’s capital expenditures or
primary focus was to create a management organisation and a
cash flows.
management system that integrated concepts and features of the
high standards of practice from both heritage companies. It
Objectives, metrics and targets
represents a systematic approach in alignment with established
The broad goal for environment, health and safety in 2001 was the
international standards and starts with a comprehensive EHS policy
establishment of the organisation, framework and management
that was among the first policies approved by GlaxoSmithKline.
system for the new company. These are now established. The year
The policy is supported by standards that are the foundation of the
2001 was also the baseline year for establishing performance levels.
EHS management system and establish the basic requirements with
An intensive consultation process was followed to establish targets,
which all operations must comply to ensure compliance with local
to be accomplished by the end of 2005, which were based on
laws and regulations. Guidelines giving detailed information on
feasible improvement projects specific to sites' opportunities for
recommended ways to meet the standards are in development and
improvement. The targets set by individual sites were rolled up to
will be followed by additional technical information and training
form the overall company targets.
resulting in a complete framework of EHS programmes and
associated documentation.
Environment, health and safety audits
GlaxoSmithKline performed audits at selected sites to assess the
Stakeholder dialogue
status of environment, health and safety programs in 2001. During
The Group has extensive internal stakeholder dialogue on the EHS
the development of the GlaxoSmithKline EHS standards, audits
programmes and initiatives including a target setting process, which
were conducted against the standards that had been established in
engages with major contributors to develop concrete plans for
the heritage companies. The audit protocol that follows the new
improvements in the Group’s environmental profile.
standards will be developed and implemented in 2002 and will
GlaxoSmithKline has also worked with key external stakeholders
form the basis for exploring ISO 14001 certification.
to ensure that the approach to EHS meets their expectations.
Injury and illness
Environment, health and safety strategy
GlaxoSmithKline aspires to have a work environment that does not
Environment, health and safety considerations are integral to the
result in injury or illness for any employee. The target set for injury
way GlaxoSmithKline does business. The EHS strategy is aligned
and illness improvement is to reduce the rate by 15 per cent per
with the business drivers and embraces the principles of continuous
year from a 2001 baseline by the end of 2005, which should result
improvement. It also supports corporate social responsibilities.
in a rate that is one of the lowest in the pharmaceutical industry.
It is vital to protect the health and safety of employees and of
contractors, visitors and others affected by the company’s Important issues
operations. The Group designs facilities and processes, conducts There are several issues that are important for GlaxoSmithKline
risk assessments and provides training in order to eliminate work either because of the global significance of the issue or because of
related safety and health hazards. the specific Group impact. These issues include climate change, air
emissions, use of material resources, the efficiency of processes,
GlaxoSmithKline’s products are carefully designed to create a
how the company generates, handles and disposes of waste, the
biological change in patients and as a result have potential EHS risks
profile of contract manufacturers and key suppliers and public
and impacts throughout their lifecycle. Applying the principles of
issues such as pharmaceuticals in the environment. GlaxoSmithKline’s
product stewardship throughout the organisation delivers positive
commitment to these issues is covered in the web-based social and
EHS benefits and minimises risk. These principles will also apply to
environmental review, “Performance with Integrity”.
contract manufacturers and key suppliers.26 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business
Access to medicines in the developing world Preferential pricing arrangements
GlaxoSmithKline understands the need for prices to reflect, as far
Healthcare in developing countries is a pressing problem, and it
as possible, ability to purchase, and has offered sustainable
is now widely acknowledged that poverty is the root cause. Large
preferential pricing arrangements in Least Developed Countries
parts of the populations of some developing countries do not have
and sub-Saharan Africa for its vaccines for over 20 years, and
secure or regular access to food and clean water, let alone
for its HIV/AIDS medicines since 1997. The Group’s long-term
healthcare services. GlaxoSmithKline has a vital role to play in
commitment is to make contributions to world health that are
developing suitable products and making them available at
sustainable. These preferential prices are therefore set at
preferential prices, and in encouraging and supporting others to
commercially viable levels that can be sustained for as long as
play their full part. The company does not, however, have the
patients need treatment.
mandate, expertise or resources to address the underlying problems
that exist. All sectors of global society - governments and
Working in partnership
international agencies, as well as the private sector - must work
The significant barriers that stand in the way of access to
together to improve healthcare in the developing world, and these
medicines in the developing world must be tackled as a shared
efforts must be backed by funding on a massive scale.
responsibility by all sectors of global society. During 2001
GlaxoSmithKline welcomes, therefore, the creation of the Global
GlaxoSmithKline continued to engage with stakeholders working
Fund to fight AIDS, TB and Malaria (GFATM), and looks forward to
on access to medicines in the developing world including many
the time when it can provide appropriate funding to maximise the
non-governmental organisations (NGOs). The company also
benefit to patients of the company’s preferential pricing offers.
consulted and worked with governments of both the developed
Much of the focus in the debate on access to medicines has been and developing world, the UN, the WHO and with the
on patents. GlaxoSmithKline does not believe that patents restrict investment community and will continue constructive dialogue
access to medicines but that the contrary is true. Patents stimulate with organisations that share its aim of trying to improve access
and fundamentally underpin the framework on which medical to medicines in the developing world.
advances depend, and which has led to sustained investment in
GlaxoSmithKline is making a vital contribution to improving health
research and development (R&D). Effective intellectual property
care in the developing world. The Group will continue with its
legislation, and mechanisms to enforce it, are essential for
efforts, focusing on areas where it can make the most difference
maintaining R&D into new and better medicines, including those
and helping to find innovative ways of making its medicines
for diseases prevalent in the developing world.
available and accessible to developing countries, as part of a more
GlaxoSmithKline takes an innovative, responsible and, above all, holistic approach to care. In May 2002 the company will publish its
sustainable approach to addressing the healthcare challenges of the social and environmental review which will expand on the Group’s
developing world. In June 2001, the company published “Facing approach, and progress made, on addressing the issue of access
the Challenge”, a report which sets out its principles, commitment to medicines in the developing world.
and contribution to improving healthcare in the developing world.
There are three key areas in which the company can contribute: Global community partnerships and corporate donations
continuing its investment in R&D into diseases that particularly
GlaxoSmithKline's community investment and charitable donations
affect the developing world; offering sustainable preferential pricing
in 2001 totalled £72 million. This was equivalent to 1.6 per cent of
arrangements and taking a leading role in partnership and
Group profit before tax.
community activities that promote effective healthcare.
Many of the programmes are long-term commitments that help
R&D for diseases of the developing world bring about and sustain change. These donations are made over a
Continued investment in research into diseases that affect the number of years. The Group's community investment activities are
developing world is essential if there is to be improvement in the focused on the following areas: disease programmes, regional
health of the people who live in these regions, not least because community initiatives, education, product donations and employee
of challenges such as drug resistance and poor patient compliance. involvement.
A lack of funding for healthcare means there is often no
commercial market for products. Therefore, GlaxoSmithKline Disease programmes
frequently works in partnership to share expertise, costs and risks
The Global Alliance to Eliminate Lymphatic Filariasis
to make R&D into developing world diseases viable.
GlaxoSmithKline is a key member of the Global Alliance to
The scale of GlaxoSmithKline’s commitment is substantial. Eliminate Lymphatic Filariasis (LF); a unique partnership which
GlaxoSmithKline is the only company currently involved in research includes the World Health Organization, the Ministries of Health
and development for both the prevention and treatment of all three in endemic countries, NGOs, community-based organisations,
top priority diseases of the World Health Organization (WHO): academic institutions, international organisations and the private
malaria, tuberculosis and HIV/AIDS. The company has numerous sector. GlaxoSmithKline supports the alliance by donating its anti-
R&D projects for medicines, and the largest programme for research parasitic drug albendazole and through help with coalition-building,
into vaccines, for diseases prevalent in the developing world. planning, training and communications initiatives. GlaxoSmithKline
GlaxoSmithKline recognises the importance of this work and is has committed to donate as much albendazole as is required to
now investing more effort in basic research. In 2001 a centre in achieve the goal of eliminating LF over the anticipated 20 year life
Tres Cantos, Spain was established as a site for research into drugs of the programme. In 2001, the third year of the programme,
for diseases of the developing world. approximately 45 million tablets were shipped to 30 countries and
these numbers will expand as the programme extends to the
1billion people at risk in 80 countries.Description of businessGlaxoSmithKline 27
Positive Action on HIV/AIDS Just over £500,000 was donated in total to the British Retinitis
Positive Action is GlaxoSmithKline’s long-term international Pigmentosa Society, Marie Curie Institute, Mental Health
programme of HIV/AIDS education, care and community support. Foundation, Parkinson’s Disease Society and Research into Ageing
Through the programme GlaxoSmithKline works in partnership with in support of medical research. A donation of £248,000 was made
networks of people living with HIV/AIDS, community groups, to equip a laboratory for @Bristol, an interactive exhibition that
international agencies, non-government organisations and combines science, nature and the arts.
governments to intensify community responses to HIV/AIDS. The
The GlaxoSmithKline International Impact Awards recognise the
diverse array of partners is reflective of community identified needs
work of voluntary community healthcare organisations. Ten winners
and their requirements to respond effectively to the HIV epidemic.
in 2001 each received an award of an unrestricted £25,000. The
Such requirements include implementation of initiatives to deliver
Group donated £500,000 to the Noah’s Ark Appeal, which has
HIV education, prevention, psychosocial care and support and
helped to kick-start the fund to build the first children’s hospital in
alleviate stigma and discrimination. Positive Action supports capacity
Wales. The Group is supporting The Red Cross Gateway project in
building programmes which provide organisations with advocacy,
Scotland, donating £165,000 to help young people with disabilities
fund raising, strategic management, leadership and communication
live independent lives.
skills, thus promoting the rights and improving the quality of lives of
people living with HIV/AIDS. For example: The company sponsored the American Sublime exhibition at Tate
Britain (February to May 2002). Most of the works in this exhibition
• Positive Action has partnered with the International Council
have never before been seen in the UK.
of AIDS Service Organisations to implement the programme
‘Dialogue on Care and Treatment Infrastructure Issues: The Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew have redeveloped their extensive
Community Mobilisation Project 2001+’; a two-year programme collection of grasses from around the world on display in the
to advance the community discussion on infrastructure issues for gardens with a donation of £43,900 from the company.
HIV/AIDS care and treatment and to strengthen the community
Europe
based response to HIV/AIDS.
Programmes in Europe focused on children's health with total
• The Centre for African Family Studies initiative supports the funding of £1 million supporting a range of long-term programmes,
organisational development of people living with HIV/AIDS in including:
Africa. GlaxoSmithKline has funded a pilot programme to
£169,614 for Reaching Young Europe, a programme run by
increase the participation of community-based groups and
Befrienders International (the umbrella organisation for the
networks of people living with HIV/AIDS at local, national and
Samaritan movement worldwide) to help children in Denmark and
international HIV/AIDS policy discussions. The programme has
Lithuania develop stress coping skills.
enabled participating organisations to deliver more effective
services, including home based care, and will now be extended. £60,000 for Project Hope to run a programme in Russia and
Ukraine to combat substance abuse and £27,000 for a paediatric
• Positive Action supports community attendance at regional and rehabilitation programme in Bosnia.
international HIV/AIDS conferences. This support includes
The Barretstown Gang Camp in Ireland and L'Envol in France, both
community scholarship programmes, support of meeting areas
of which provide therapeutic recreation for seriously ill children from
exclusive to people living with HIV/AIDS and implementation of
all over Europe, received £125,000 and £100,000 respectively.
community orientation sessions. This support enables individuals
from under-resourced communities to attend conferences, share North America
experiences and in particular address discrimination, stigma Programmes in North America focused on improving access to
and violation of human rights in their home countries. In 2001 better healthcare. Partnership funding of $2.2 million was allocated
Positive Action was the main supporter of community through the North America Community Partnerships Team. A
attendance at conferences in Trinidad and Thailand. further $4.7 million was invested in regional community activities.
In addition a $1 million donation was made to the New York City
Community malaria programme
disaster fund.
In July 2001, it was announced that the MalaroneDonation
Programme, established in 1997, would end in September 2001 A three-year grant of more than $2 million was made to support
upon completion of the pilot phase. The donation programme the Children’s Health Fund’s Referral Management Initiative (RMI).
proved not to be an efficient and effective use of resources to The grant ensures continuity of care for medically underserved,
achieve the objective of reducing suffering and death from malaria. high-risk children, who are often homeless.
The company has committed to focus resources allocated to the The third annual SHARE Awards recognise community-based
MalaroneDonation Programme on a new community partnership programmes that meet the needs of racially, ethnically and
malaria initiative to be announced in 2002. culturally diverse elders. A total of $4.5 million in awards has been
distributed over the three-year period. The awards are administered
Regional community initiatives by the University of Pennsylvania Institute on Aging.
United Kingdom A three-year, $860,220, partnership exists with the Ovarian Cancer
GlaxoSmithKline made charitable donations of £4.1 million to UK National Alliance to heighten the awareness of ovarian cancer
charities through its UK Corporate Donations Committee. More among women, physicians and managed care organisations.
than 200 projects in science education and medical research,
The Carter Center’s Rosalynn Carter Fellowships for Mental Health
healthcare, the arts and the environment were funded. In
Journalism is a three year $300,000 programme to promote long-
addition GlaxoSmithKline companies in the UK provided a further
term, systemic change in the American public’s belief and
£1.9 million for community investment purposes, giving a combined
perception about mental illness.
total of £6 million in support of projects in the UK.28 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business
GlaxoSmithKline’s three year grant of $555,000 to the United Way The Concern for Children Trust, a charity established to promote
of Southeastern Pennsylvania will create more effective healthcare the health and wellbeing of children in Pakistan, with specific
delivery at the United Way’s 91 member agencies. GlaxoSmithKline’s focus on preventive and primary healthcare and education.
International Impact Awards acknowledge and reward excellence in GlaxoSmithKline has provided funding of £10,000 for healthcare
the non-profit healthcare community, in the Greater Philadelphia screening and education for immigrant children in low-income
area. Ten winners each received $40,000. areas of Karachi.
Around GlaxoSmithKline’s facilities in North Carolina community The Health Education for Mothers on Major Childhood Killers
relations staff work to address issues that affect employees, their programme, which completed its third and final year.
families, and their communities. Here, GlaxoSmithKline supports GlaxoSmithKline provided £288,000 over three years for a nine-
programmes in health, education, arts, and civic affairs: country initiative aimed at providing mothers in developing
countries with the basic information needed to recognise major
Promising Practices, which supports the prevention and treatment
childhood killers.
of chronic diseases that affect low-wealth communities, received
$60,000 over three years.
Education and schools links
GlaxoSmithKline supported education through contributions (over Through its education programme GlaxoSmithKline works with a
$700,000), in-kind donations, and volunteerism supporting the NC range of partners to develop young people’s knowledge,
Business Committee for Education, various education foundations, understanding technical and personal skills in a number of areas,
and the Governor’s Entrepreneurial Schools Award. with a particular focus on science. Programmes include:
PlayMaker’s Repertory Company’s educational matinee series brings • Science Across The World, an international educational
the arts into the classroom. GlaxoSmithKline provided $15,000. programme encouraging communication and shared learning
across different cultures
Habitat for Humanity received $75,000 toward construction of
• the annual Health Matters European Schools Awards, which
three homes for low-wealth families. GlaxoSmithKline employees
introduce students to the importance of health issues in today's
volunteered to build these and other Habitat homes.
society, and develop their teamworking, investigation, research
GlaxoSmithKline’s Investment in Volunteer Excellence (GIVE) and communication skills
provided $500 grants to qualifying non-profit organisations based • support for The Royal Institution Christmas Lectures, which
on employee/partner volunteer time. GIVE grants totalled $349,000 provide an opportunity for young people to learn about science
and GlaxoSmithKline employees volunteered over 100,000 hours. from eminent scientists
• Active Science, a new web resource for pupils aged five plus
Finally, the North Carolina GlaxoSmithKline Foundation for the
• People and Medicine, a new web-based resource supporting
Advancement of Education, Science and Health is an endowed,
science for students aged 11 to 16.
self-funding organisation which operates as a separate entity. The
foundation publishes its own annual report, which is available on GlaxoSmithKline's local sites also participated actively in promoting
request, and uses its asset base to support maths, science and learning and education in their local communities.
health education in North Carolina.
Product donations
International GlaxoSmithKline donates essential products for humanitarian relief
GlaxoSmithKline's International Community Partnerships projects efforts. Donations are made at the request of governments and
addressed health education and mobilisation, providing partnership major charitable organisations and are made from product
funding of £1 million in 2001. Programmes included: inventory. Non-governmental organisations complete a needs
assessment then order the product needed in their international
£369,000 to support its PHASE initiative (Personal Hygiene And
communities. This ensures that the right product reaches the right
Sanitation Education) in Kenya, Uganda, Nicaragua and Peru.
person at the right time. In 2001, the total value of the Group’s
PHASE provides hygiene and sanitation education for school children
international product donations, excluding the LFprogramme, was
with the aim of reducing diarrhoea-related disease and deaths.
$28.7 million (at wholesale acquisition cost).
£140,000 allocated to two health improvement programmes for
indigenous population communities in Australia. Employee involvement
GlaxoSmithKline employees are encouraged to contribute to their
£100,000 provided to fund a new HIV/AIDS clinic in the Masoyi
local communities through employee volunteering schemes.
tribal area of Mpumalanga, South Africa. The clinic is part of a
Support for this varies around the world but includes paid time off,
three-year, £300,000 GlaxoSmithKline programme to provide a
donations to charities where employees have completed voluntary
quality continuum of care to all those in the region who are
work, and matched giving, where GlaxoSmithKline matches
infected and affected by HIV/AIDS.
personal cash contributions by employees to qualifying institutions.
GlaxoSmithKline's Rural Nursing Excellence programme in In 2001, through its Matching Gifts programme in the USA,
Thailand, which sponsors female high school graduates from rural GlaxoSmithKline matched more than 8,900 employee gifts, at a
areas to complete four year nursing degrees. GlaxoSmithKline has value of $3.8 million.
donated £500,000 over five years to train 200 nurses, and March
In addition, a special Disaster Relief Fund was established to help
2001 saw the first graduates of the programme.
the victims of the tragedy that took place in the USA on 11th
September 2001. A total of 2,169 gifts were made, totalling
$348,455. GlaxoSmithKline also matched these gifts.GlaxoSmithKline 29
Corporate governance
This section discusses GlaxoSmithKline’s management
structures and governance procedures.
30 The Board
31 Corporate Executive Team
32 Governance and policy
32 Dialogue with shareholders
33 Annual General Meeting
33 Accountability and audit
34 The Combined Code30 GlaxoSmithKline Corporate governance
b
The Board Sir Peter Job (Aged 60)
cg Non-Executive Director. Sir Peter was formerly a Non-Executive
Sir Richard Sykes (Aged 59)
Director of Glaxo Wellcome plc. He is the former Chief Executive
Non-Executive Chairman. Sir Richard was Chairman of Glaxo
of Reuters Group PLC and is a Non-Executive Director of Schroders
Wellcome plc from 1997 until the completion of the merger to
plc, Shell Transport and Trading Company plc, TIBCO Software Inc
formGlaxoSmithKline plc. He is Rector of the Imperial College of
and Instinet Group LLC.
Science, Technology & Medicine. He has a Doctorate in Microbial
f
Biochemistry from Bristol University and a Doctor of Science degree John McArthur (Aged 67)
from the University of London. A Fellow of the Royal Society, he sits Non-Executive Director. Mr McArthur was formerly a Non-Executive
on a number of government and scientific committees. He received Director of Glaxo Wellcome plc. He is a former Dean of the Harvard
his knighthood for services to the pharmaceutical industry. He is Business School, and is a Non-Executive Director of BCE Inc., Cabot
also a Non-Executive Director of Rio Tinto plc. Corporation, Rohm and Haas Company, Springs Industries Inc. and
df The AES Corporation.
Sir Roger Hurn (Aged 63)
fh
Non-Executive Deputy Chairman. Sir Roger was appointed a Donald McHenry (Aged 65)
Non-Executive Director of Glaxo Wellcome plc in 1996 and Deputy Non-Executive Director. Mr McHenry was formerly a Non-
Chairman in 1997. He is Non-Executive Chairman of Prudential plc Executive Director of SmithKline Beecham plc. He is a
and a Non-Executive Director of Cazenove Group plc. He is also Distinguished Professor in the Practice of Diplomacy at the School
Chairman of the Court of Governors of the Henley Management of Foreign Service at Georgetown University and President of the
Centre. IRC Group, LLC. His other Non-Executive directorships include
bd Coca-Cola Company, FleetBoston Financial Corporation and AT&T
Sir Peter Walters (Aged 71)
Corporation. He previously served as Ambassador and US
Non-Executive Deputy Chairman. Sir Peter had been a Non-
Permanent Representative to the United Nations.
Executive Director of SmithKline Beecham plc since 1989 and
b
Chairman from 1994 until completion of the merger. He is also Sir Ian Prosser (Aged 58)
Chairman of the Institute of Economic Affairs. Non-Executive Director. Sir Ian was formerly a Non-Executive
d Director of SmithKline Beecham plc. He is Chairman of Six
Dr Jean-Pierre Garnier (Aged 54)
Continents PLC and Non-Executive Deputy Chairman of BP plc. He
Chief Executive Officer. Dr Garnier was appointed an Executive
is also Chairman of the Executive Committee of the World Travel &
Director of SmithKline Beecham plc in 1992. He served as
Tourism Council and a member of the CBI President’s Committee.
Chairman, Pharmaceuticals from 1994 until his appointment as
a
Chief Operating Officer in 1995 and became Chief Executive Officer Dr Ronaldo Schmitz (Aged 63)
in April 2000. He is a Non-Executive Director of United Technologies Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Corporation and a member of the Board of Trustees of the Dr Schmitz was formerly a Non-Executive Director of Glaxo
Eisenhower Exchange Fellowships. He holds a PhD in pharmacology Wellcome plc. He is a Non-Executive Director of Legal & General
from the University of Louis Pasteur in France and an MBA from Group plc and a member of the Board of Directors of Rohm
Stanford University in the USA. and Haas Company and Cabot Corporation. He was formerly a
d member of the Board of Executive Directors of Deutsche Bank AG.
John Coombe (Aged 56)
h
Chief Financial Officer. Mr Coombe was formerly an Executive Dr Lucy Shapiro (Aged 61)
Director of Glaxo Wellcome plc where he was responsible for Non-Executive Director. Dr Shapiro was formerly a Non-Executive
Finance and Investor Relations. He is a member of the UK Director of SmithKline Beecham plc. She is Professor in the
Accounting Standards Board and the Code Committee of the UK Department of Developmental Biology and Director of the
Takeover Panel. Beckman Centre at the Stanford University School of Medicine.
f She holds a PhD in molecular biology from Albert Einstein College
Paul Allaire (Aged 63)
of Medicine.
Non-Executive Director. Mr Allaire was formerly a Non-Executive
e
Director of SmithKline Beecham plc. He is a Non-Executive Director John Young (Aged 69)
of Lucent Technologies Inc., Sara Lee Corporation and priceline.com Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration &
Inc. He is Chairman of The Ford Foundation and was Chairman of Nominations Committee. Mr Young was formerlyNon-Executive
Xerox Corporation. Mr Allaire will succeed Mr Young as Chairman Vice Chairman of SmithKline Beecham plc. His other Non-
of the Remuneration & Nominations Committee. Executive appointments include directorships of ChevronTexaco
fh Corp, Lucent Technologies Inc., Affymetrix Inc., Perlegen Sciences
Dr Michèle Barzach (Aged 58)
Inc., Ciphergen Biosystems, Fluidigm, Grassroots Enterprise and
Non-Executive Director. Dr Barzach was formerly a Non-Executive
Agere Systems.
Director of Glaxo Wellcome plc. She is Chairman of the External
Advisory Panel for Health, Nutrition and Population for the World Sir Richard Sykes, Sir Peter Walters and Mr Young will be retiring
Bank and Director of the Board of International AIDS Vaccine from the Board at the Annual General Meeting in May 2002.
Initiative. A consultant on health strategy, she was formerly French
Minister of Health and the Family. Membership of Board committees is indicated by the following
bd symbols:
Sir Christopher Hogg (Aged 65)
Non-Executive Director. Sir Christopher was formerly a Chairman Member
Non-Executive Director of SmithKline Beecham plc. He is Non- Audit a b
Executive Chairman of Reuters Group PLC and, until 31st March Finance c d
2002, Allied Domecq PLC and aNon-Executive Director of Air Remuneration & Nominations e f
Liquide S.A. and Chairman of The Royal National Theatre Board. Corporate Social Responsibility g hCorporate governanceGlaxoSmithKline 31
Corporate Executive Team Howard Pien
President
JP Garnier Pharmaceuticals International
Chief Executive Officer Having worked at Abbott Laboratories and Merck, Mr Pien joined
Formerly Chief Executive Officer of SmithKline Beecham, Dr Garnier SmithKline Beecham in 1991, held commercial positions in the US,
joined SmithKline Beecham in 1990 as President of its UK and Asia, and in 1998 he became President, Pharmaceuticals,
pharmaceutical business in North America and was Chairman, with responsibility for the commercial operations of the worldwide
Pharmaceuticals, from 1994 until his appointment as Chief pharmaceuticals and vaccines business.
Operating Officer in 1995. He was elected to SmithKline Beecham's
Board of Directors in 1992. David Stout
President
Rupert Bondy US Pharmaceuticals
Senior Vice President and General Counsel Mr Stout became President, Pharmaceuticals, North America, at
Mr Bondy joined SmithKline Beecham in 1995 as Senior Counsel for SmithKline Beecham in 1998, having joined in 1996 as Senior Vice
Corporate and in 1998 was appointed head of the Corporate Legal President and Director, Sales and Marketing - US. Before that he was
and Secretarial group. Before joining SmithKline Beecham, he was a President of Schering Laboratories with responsibilities that included
lawyer in private practice. Mr Bondy is responsible for legal matters US pharmaceutical operations and worldwide manufacturing.
across GlaxoSmithKline.
Tim Tyson
Ford Calhoun President
Senior Vice President Global Manufacturing & Supply
Information Technology Mr Tyson joined Glaxo in 1988 and was appointed Senior Vice
Dr Calhoun joined SmithKline &French in 1984 from the faculty President and Director, Worldwide Manufacturing & Supply, Glaxo
of Mount Sinai School of Medicine. He has doctoral training in Wellcome, in 1998. Previously he was Vice President and General
Microbial Genetics and postdoctoral training in Biomathematics Manager of Business Operations and Marketing for Glaxo Wellcome
and Computer Science. Notable accomplishments at SmithKline Inc. He was a member of the Glaxo Wellcome Executive Committee.
Beecham were in bioinformatics, drug development processes,
collaborative computing, healthcare information products and Chris Viehbacher
internet products and services. President
Pharmaceuticals Europe
John Coombe As Regional Director for Europe, Mr Viehbacher was a member of
Chief Financial Officer the Glaxo Wellcome Executive Committee. In addition to his role as
Joining Glaxo in 1986 as Group Financial Controller, Mr Coombe Chairman and Chief Executive (President Directeur General) of Glaxo
was appointed to the Board in 1992 as Executive Director Wellcome France, he became Director, Continental Europe in 1999.
responsible for finance. Investor Relations was later added to He joined Wellcome in 1988.
his responsibilities. He was Group Finance Director for Glaxo
Wellcome plc. Tachi Yamada
Chairman
Bob Ingram Research & Development
Chief Operating Officer and President At SmithKline Beecham, Dr Yamada was appointed Chairman,
Pharmaceutical Operations Research and Development, Pharmaceuticals, in 1999. Previously
Mr Ingram was Chief Executive of Glaxo Wellcome plc and he was President, SmithKline Beecham Healthcare Services. He
Chairman of Glaxo Wellcome Inc, the US subsidiary. He joined joined SmithKline Beecham as a Non-Executive member of the Board
Glaxo Inc in 1990 from Merck and was appointed to the Board of Directors in 1994.
of Glaxo Wellcome in 1995. He became Chief Executive of Glaxo
Wellcome in 1997. Jennie Younger
Senior Vice President
James Palmer Corporate Communications & Community Partnerships
Senior Vice President Mrs Younger was appointed to her current post in December 2001.
New Product Development Pharmaceuticals R&D She joined Glaxo Wellcome in 1996 as Director of Investor Relations
Dr Palmer is responsible for GlaxoSmithKline’s New Product after three years at British Gas as Head of Investor Relations. Before
Development including worldwide responsibility for Medical, that Mrs Younger was a financial analyst with Kleinwort Benson and
Regulatory and Product Strategy. He held a similar position in Glaxo Barclays de Zoete Wedd.
Wellcome and was a member of the Glaxo Wellcome Executive
Committee. A physician by training, he joined Glaxo in 1985. Jack Ziegler
President
Dan Phelan Consumer Healthcare
Senior Vice President Mr Ziegler was appointed President of Consumer Healthcare,
Human Resources SmithKline Beecham, in 1998. He joined SmithKline Beecham in
Mr Phelan joined SmithKline Beecham in 1981 as Manager of 1991 as head of the North American Consumer Healthcare division,
Labour Relations and in 1989 became Vice President and Director, became President of the North America Division, and in 1996 was
Personnel - US, Pharmaceuticals. In 1994, he was appointed Senior appointed Executive Vice President.
Vice President and Director, Human Resources.32 GlaxoSmithKline Corporate governance
Governance and policy The Corporate Social Responsibility Committee consists entirely of
Non-Executive Directors and provides a Board level forum for the
The Board and Executive
regular review of external issues that have the potential for serious
The Directors listed under ‘The Board’ (page 30) were appointed
impact upon the Group’s business and reputation.
on 23rd May 2000 and have served since that date.
The Board of GlaxoSmithKline plc is responsible for the Group's Corporate Executive Team
system of corporate governance and is ultimately accountable for The executive management of the Group is the responsibility of the
the Group's activities, strategy and financial performance. Chief Executive Officer and other senior managers, who form the
Corporate Executive Team which meets 11 times per year. The
The Board comprises Executive and Non-Executive Directors. The
members of the Corporate Executive Team and their responsibilities
role of Non-Executive Directors is to bring independent judgement
are listed under 'Corporate Executive Team' (page 31).
to Board deliberations and decisions.
Sir Richard Sykes is Non-Executive Chairman and Dr Jean-Pierre Remuneration of Directors
Garnier is Chief Executive Officer. Information on the remuneration of Directors is given in the
Remuneration report.
Sir Roger Hurn and Sir Peter Walters are Non-Executive Deputy
Chairmen.
Dialogue with shareholders
Sir Richard Sykes was employed by GlaxoSmithKline Services plc
The company announces financial results quarterly.
(formerly Glaxo Wellcome plc) as Executive Chairman until
completion of the merger. All of the other Non-Executive Directors The company reports formally to shareholders twice a year, when
are considered by the Board to be independent. Given that two its half-year and full-year results are announced and a full Report
Non-Executive Deputy Chairmen have been appointed, each and/or summary Review are issued to shareholders. The Chief
independent, the company does not consider it necessary to Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer give presentations on
appoint either one as senior independent director. the final year end results to institutional investors, analysts and the
media in London and in New York. In addition, the company holds
Board process teleconferences after the release of the first, second and third
The Board meets regularly throughout the year. It has a formal quarter results for institutional investors, analysts and the media
schedule of matters reserved to it for decision but otherwise which may also be accessed via the company’s web site.
delegates specific responsibilities to Board committees, as described
The Annual General Meeting of the company takes place in London
below. The Board works to an agreed agenda in reviewing the key
and formal notification is sent to shareholders at least one month
activities of the business, and receives papers and presentations to
in advance. At the Meeting a business presentation is made to
enable it to do so effectively. Minutes of Board committees, except
shareholders and all Directors able to attend are available, formally
the Remuneration & Nominations Committee, are placed on the
during the Meeting, and informally afterwards, for questions.
agenda of the Board.
Details of the 2002 Annual General Meeting are set out in the
The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board and is available section 'Annual General Meeting'.
to individual Directors in respect of Board procedures. The Company
The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer maintain
Secretary is Simon Bicknell.
a dialogue with institutional shareholders on company plans and
objectives through a programme of regular meetings. They both
Board committees
speak regularly at external conferences and presentations.
The Audit Committee reviews the financial and internal reporting
process, the system of internal control and management of risks The company's Investor Relations department, with offices in
and the external and internal audit process. The Committee consists London and Philadelphia, acts as a focal point for contact with
entirely of Non-Executive Directors. It meets four times a year with investors throughout the year.
the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the General
The company's internet site, www.gsk.com, gives access to
Counsel, the heads of internal audit and corporate compliance with
current financial and business information about the Group.
the external auditors in attendance.
Information made available on the web site does not constitute
The Finance Committee reviews and approves the major financial part of this document.
and securities transactions of the company, as well as dividends,
results announcements and the business of the Annual General Share buy-back programme
Meeting. The committee consists of the Chief Executive Officer, the In October 2001, the company announced plans to invest up to
Chief Financial Officer and four Non-Executive Directors. It meets £4billion buying its shares in the market. The programme covers
four times a year and additional meetings may be held at any time. purchases by the company’s employee trusts relating to share
option grants and other share based incentives. It also covers
The Remuneration & Nominations Committee determines the terms
purchases by the company of shares for cancellation, in accordance
of service and remuneration of the Executive Directors and
with the authority given by shareholders at the company’s Annual
Corporate Officers and considers appointments of Directors and
General Meeting in 2001. In total £2 billion was spent in 2001.
Corporate Officers. The Committee consists entirely of Non-
Executive Directors. It meets four times a year and otherwise as The company was authorised to purchase a maximum of 623
necessary. The Chief Executive Officer attends meetings except million shares and 70.6 million shares were purchased for
when his own remuneration is being considered. cancellation during 2001; details are given in Note 27 to the
Financial statements, ‘Share capital and share premium account’.
The exact amount and timing offuture purchases will be
determined by the company and is dependent on market
conditions and other factors.Corporate governanceGlaxoSmithKline 33
Annual General Meeting The company has identified a number of areas of significant risk
which are subject to regular reporting:
The company's Annual General Meeting will be held at 2.30pm on
20th May 2002 at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad
Intellectual property
Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE.
Specific risks include maintaining and enforcing intellectual property
rights in compliance with relevant legislation, infringement of third
Directors
party intellectual property rights and protection of in-licensed
Mr Allaire and Dr Barzach will retire and offer themselves for re-
products and technologies.
election to the Board under article 93 of the company's Articles of
Association. Biographical details for each of them are given under
Litigation and legal
'The Board' (page 30).
In the normal course of its business GlaxoSmithKline is subject to
proceedings, legal actions and other claims. All these matters are
Auditors
subject to risks and uncertainties and the outcomes cannot be
Resolutions will be proposed to re-appoint PricewaterhouseCoopers
predicted with any level of certainty. The nature of these risks is
as auditors and to authorise the Directors to determine their
discussed further in Note 30 to the Financial statements, ‘Legal
remuneration.
proceedings’.
Special business
Information technology
The company will seek to renew its authority to:
Protecting GlaxoSmithKline electronic assets is increasingly complex
• make donations to EU Political Organisations and incur EU as business partnerships extend networks, systems, and electronic
Political Expenditure data to third parties, and as dependency on the Internet for
• give the Directors authority to dis-apply pre-emption rights communications increases. Ensuring proper systems validation and
when allotting new shares in certain circumstances up to a electronic records and signatures are key regulatory issues and
maximum of five per cent of the current issued share capital matters of potential risk for the company. Similarly, web systems
• obtain authority to purchase its own Ordinary Shares up to a accessible to the public must comply with legal and regulatory
maximum of just under ten per cent of the current issued requirements.
share capital.
Other areas of potential risk include use of personally identifiable
data, electronic record retention, outsourced business applications,
Accountability and audit
and the potential susceptibility to viruses and outside incursions.
The Board recognises its responsibility to present a balanced and
understandable assessment of the Group’s position and prospects. Human resources
The discussion which follows sets out the procedures of The legal requirements regarding discrimination and harassment,
accountability and control that are operated in GlaxoSmithKline. the integrity of the workforce and the control and use of
contractors and temporary staff are risks inherent to a company
Internal control framework with over 100,000 employees.
The company operates, and attaches importance to, clear principles
and procedures designed to achieve the accountability and control Corporate ethics and compliance programme
appropriate to a science-based business operating multinationally The Group operates in a complex legal and regulatory environment
in a highly regulated business sector. There is central direction, that spans the globe often with inconsistencies from one jurisdiction
resource allocation and risk management of the key functional to the next. The cornerstone of the Group’s compliance effort is
activities of commercial strategy, research and development, due diligence in preventing and detecting misconduct and legal
manufacture, information systems, human resources and financial non-compliance by promoting ethical behaviour, compliance with
practice. Commercial and financial responsibility is clearly delegated all laws and regulations, corporate responsibility at all levels and
to local operating units, supported by a regional management effective compliance systems.
structure.
Product safety
These principles are designed to provide an environment of central
All pharmaceutical products bring with them benefits and risks,
leadership and local operating autonomy as the framework for the
some of the latter of which are side effects. The intent of pre-
exercise of accountability and control within the Group. The key
clinical and clinical trials conducted during the development of
functional activities and management sectors are represented on
potential products is to determine the safety and efficacy of
the Corporate Executive Team.
products for use by humans following approvals from regulatory
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and bodies. In spite of these efforts, when drugs are introduced into
managing the significant risks affecting the business and the the marketplace, unanticipated adverse side effects may occur.
policies and procedures by which these risks are managed. This
process has been in operation for the whole of the year under Manufacturing
review and continues to operate up to the date of approval of this Loss of a manufacturing site key to the production of products
report. The process accords with the guidance on internal control important to GlaxoSmithKline is a significant risk. The Group’s policy
issued by the Turnbull Committee in 1999. The assessment of is that manufacturing is conducted in accordance with applicable
Group risks is reviewed and updated at least annually. Similarly at laws and regulations as well as with corporate standards that may
the operating level, business units are required to have processes for exceed such requirements. Failure to meet legal and regulatory
identifying, evaluating and managing risks significant to the requirements is one of a number of risks that may result in closing
business. Specialist teams review and report on compliance. asite critical to the supply of important products.34 GlaxoSmithKline Corporate governance
Environment and safety Audit Committee and Board
Employee injury, changes in health due to occupational conditions, The Audit Committee of the Board has responsibility for reviewing
and plant management and the potential impact of plants on the on behalf of the Board the effectiveness of the system of internal
environment are risks the company addresses through a control and management of risks and the process for monitoring
comprehensive architecture that sets targets and provides guidance compliance with laws, regulations and ethical codes of practice.
on how results can be achieved.
The Audit Committee receives regular reports on areas of significant
risk to the company, and on related internal controls. Following
Financial risk and appraisal
consideration of these reports, the Committee reports annually to
There are risks surrounding the Group’s ability to forecast the
the Board on the overall framework and effectiveness of controls.
future and thus uncertainty with its ability to meet financial targets
set out in its budgeting process. The Group invests in new products In addition the Audit Committee keeps under review the scope and
and ventures based on assumptions about the success of those results of the audit and the independence and objectivity of the
efforts that may prove to be inaccurate. In addition, there are risks external auditors. The committee also reviews the nature and extent
around the Group’s treasury operations including tax liabilities, of non-audit services the external auditors provide in order to
transfer pricing, and the possibility of trading losses and ensure that the fees for services do not become so significant as to
counterparty fraud. Extensive financial controls, procedures, call into question their independence for the Group.
self-assessment exercises, and auditing measures – reviewed by the
The Board after having considered the Audit Committee report on
Group’s internal auditors – are in place to minimise the effect of
the effectiveness of controls believes that the systems of internal
these risks.
control provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against
As part of the financial risk management process there is a material mis-statement or loss.
comprehensive planning system with an annual budget approved
Such controls may mitigate but cannot eliminate risks. In addition,
by the Directors. The results of operating units are reported
there are areas of the company’s business where it is necessary to
monthly and compared to the budget. Forecasts are prepared
take risk in order to achieve a satisfactory return for shareholders.
regularly throughout the year. The company announces results
In these cases it is the company’s objective to apply its expertise in
on a quarterly basis.
the prudent management, rather than elimination, of risk.
Risk Oversight and Compliance Council (ROCC) The Directors’ review relates to the company and its subsidiaries
The ROCC is responsible for co-ordinating the internal control and and does not extend to material associated undertakings, joint
risk management activities of the company and ensuring the ventures or other investments. The company has a 23 per cent
assignment of designated managers to manage significant risks. interest in Quest Diagnostics Inc, (Quest) which is accounted for
Membership comprises several members of the CET and the heads as an associated company. The activities of Quest are not part of
of department with internal control, risk management, audit and/or the company's core business and competencies, and the interest
compliance responsibilities. The terms of reference also include in Quest is held only as an investment. The company has not
ensuring that regular 'gap analysis' is carried out to identify gaps in therefore reviewed Quest's system of internal control.
internal controls and providing reports to the Audit Committee in
addition to the reports provided by the separate internal control, The Combined Code
audit and compliance departments within the company. The ROCC
The company seeks to uphold, and to report on compliance with,
is supported by the Corporate Compliance department.
best practice in corporate governance. 'The Combined Code –
Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice' (the
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee (CSRC)
Combined Code) is issued by the UK Listing Authority. The
The CSRC is a Committee of the Board, chaired by Sir Richard
Combined Code comprises recommendations as to best practice
Sykes, and comprising three other Non-Executive Directors. The
in terms of the control and reporting functions of the Board of
Committee advises the Board on social, ethical and environmental
a company. The Combined Code sets out principles under the
issues that have the potential to seriously impact GlaxoSmithKline’s
headings of:
business and reputation.
• directors
The Committee meets formally twice a year, and has additional ad
• directors' remuneration
hoc meetings and consultations as required. GlaxoSmithKline
• relations with shareholders
executives, who have functional responsibility for the business areas
• accountability and audit
relating to the issues or are involved in risk control and interface
with external stakeholders, attend meetings and provide input to and prescribes more detailed provisions in respect of each principle.
the Committee. The Committee’s activities feed into the internal Specifically the provisions require directors to report in the Annual
control framework and help the Board to ensure that the Group Accounts on:
complies with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
• directors' remuneration
• directors' responsibility for the accounts
• going concern
• internal control.
Compliance
The Directors' report on compliance with the Combined Code, and
their reports in accordance with the provisions of the Combined
Code, are set out under Directors' statements of responsibility
(page66).GlaxoSmithKline 35
Remuneration report
The Remuneration report sets out the remuneration policies
operated by GlaxoSmithKline.
36 Remuneration policy
This describes the processes, policies and programmes which took
effect from completion of the merger on 27th December 2000.
38 Directors’ remuneration 2001
This sets out the remuneration earned in 2001 by Directors of
GlaxoSmithKline, together with their interests in share options and
share incentive plans.
42 Directors and Senior Management
This sets out the interests of Directors of GlaxoSmithKline in shares
of GlaxoSmithKline plc and in contracts. Information is also
provided on the aggregate remuneration and interests of Directors
and Senior Management of GlaxoSmithKline.
References to GlaxoSmithKline shares and ADSs mean, respectively,
Ordinary Shares of GlaxoSmithKline plc of 25p and American
Depositary Shares of GlaxoSmithKline plc. Each ADS represents two
GlaxoSmithKline shares.36 GlaxoSmithKline Remuneration report
Remuneration policy
GlaxoSmithKline remuneration policy Special deferred bonus
In recognition of the extraordinary effort made by the Corporate
As a leading global healthcare company, GlaxoSmithKline aims to
Executive Team (CET) during 2001 to integrate successfully the two
have remuneration policies and programmes that will enable it to
legacy companies, while at the same time delivering improved
recruit, retain and motivate the top calibre executive talent which it
business performance, the R&N Committee decided to award a
needs and for which it competes in an international market place.
special deferred bonus to each member of the CET, including the
GlaxoSmithKline believes that its remuneration policies and Executive Directors. To provide the bonus, an amount equivalent
programmes represent a competitive advantage and best practice to the salary on 31st December 2001 of each CET member was
through a heavy emphasis on pay for performance and ‘at risk’ treated as having being notionally invested in GlaxoSmithKline
compensation for its top executives. Long-term incentive plans have shares on 15th February 2002. To receive the bonus, the CET
been designed to align executive reward with shareholders’ members are required not to leave the company voluntarily before
interests, in particular, the creation of enhanced shareholder value. 15th February 2005. The payment made in 2005 will be an amount
equivalent to the then value of the shares notionally acquired in
The Remuneration & Nominations Committee February 2002 plus dividends reinvested over the period. This
amount may then be converted into shares in the company.
A committee of the Board, the Remuneration & Nominations (R&N)
Deferring payment in this way fully aligns executive interest with
Committee, develops the company’s policy on Executive Directors’
that of the shareholders and acts as a strong retention tool. The
remuneration for approval by the Board and determines the
deferred bonus is not pensionable and a change in control of the
remuneration package of each Executive Director. The R&N
company will not automatically trigger payment. This deferred
Committee consists exclusively of independent Non-Executive
bonus is in addition to their annual bonus for 2001. However, in
Directors. The current members of the Committee are Mr John
agreeing to the deferred bonus, the Committee held the Individual
Young (Chairman), Mr Paul Allaire, Dr Michèle Barzach, Sir Roger
Performance Multiplier (IPM) under the normal annual bonus plan
Hurn, Mr John McArthur and Mr Donald McHenry. Mr Allaire will
to no more than 100 per cent for each CET member (with the
succeed Mr Young as chairman of the committee.
exception of Dr Garnier, whose IPM was held to 140 per cent),
Remuneration of the company’s Non-Executive Directors is which, given individual achievements, was considerably less than
determined by the GlaxoSmithKline Board itself, upon receipt of would have been paid in the absence of the special deferred bonus.
advice from external consultants.
Long-term incentives
Policy on remuneration of Executive Directors These comprise share options and participation in a Performance
Share Plan that link reward to shareholder value over the long and
The R&N Committee, with advice from a leading firm of
medium term respectively, as described below.
compensation and benefit consultants, aims to provide a package
of incentives and rewards which will be competitive by reference to Share options
other global healthcare companies as well as other multinational Share options allow the holder to buy shares at a future date at a
companies considered similar to GlaxoSmithKline in terms of size, price determined by reference to the open market price of shares
geographical spread and complexity of business. at the time of grant. Share options are granted to more than
13,000 managers at GlaxoSmithKline including Executive Directors.
In constructing and reviewing remuneration packages, the
emphasisis on linking pay to performance by rewarding effective Vesting of options granted to Executive Directors will be subject
management as well as individual achievement. The mix within tothe performance condition that earnings per share growth,
apackage is designed to align personal reward with enhanced excluding currency and exceptional items, should be at least
shareholder value over both the short and the long term. The ninepercent more than the increase in the UK Retail Price Index
Executive Directors’ remuneration consists of four components: over any three-year measurement period. With respect to future
grants, the R&N Committee will review performance conditions
• Salary
against market conditions.
• Performance bonus
• Long-term incentives Performance Share Plan
• Benefits. Participations in the Performance Share Plan are granted to
approximately 700 top executives in the company, including
Salary Executive Directors, designating a target number of shares for
This reflects an Executive Director’s experience, responsibility and eachparticipant. Vesting of awards under the plan is subject
market value. toa performance condition which applies during a three year
measurement period. The performance condition consists of
Performance bonus twoparts, each of which applies to 50 per cent of the award.
This is based on annual performance by business teams against
demanding financial targets and individual accomplishments against
objectives. Bonuses are subject to upper limits. On target business
performance brings total compensation into line with the
competitor panel. Compensation rises if the target performance is
exceeded but the executives’ total compensation falls well below
the level of compensation of competitors if these targets are not
achieved. There is an option to invest the bonus in GlaxoSmithKline
shares, inwhich case the bonus is enhanced by ten per cent but
the shares must be held for a minimum of three years.Remuneration reportGlaxoSmithKline 37
The first part of the condition compares GlaxoSmithKline’s Directors’ service contracts
TotalShareholder Returns (TSR) over the period with the TSR
Executive Directors are employed on service contracts under which
ofcompanies in the UK FTSE 100 Index over the same period.
GlaxoSmithKline is required to give two years’ notice of termination
IfGlaxoSmithKline is ranked in the top 20 of the FTSE 100
and the Executive Directors are required to give 12 months’ notice.
inrelation to TSR performance, then 100 per cent of the
sharessubject to this part of the performance condition will vest. Dr Garnier’s contract specifies the compensation to be paid by the
Iftheranking is at the 50th position in the FTSE 100, 40 per company on termination of his employment, including an
centofthe shares will vest. If GlaxoSmithKline is ranked below immediate payment of two years salary and bonus. Dr Garnier is
50thposition, none of the shares subject to this part of the also entitled to continue to participate in the company’s long-term
performance condition will vest. Between the 20th and 50th incentive plans for the first 12 months following notice of
positions, vesting will occur on a slidingscale. termination by the company. Dr Garnier’s notice period was reduced
to two years from three years in 1998. Dr Garnier will also receive
The second part of the performance condition requires
three years’ pension accrual on termination and, in certain
GlaxoSmithKline earnings per share growth, excluding currency
circumstances, a further three years’ accrual.
andexceptional items, to be at least nine per cent more than
theincrease in the UK Retail Price Index over the three-year Mr Coombe’s contract specifies compensation to be paid in the
performance period. If this condition is met, then all of the shares event of redundancy. In the event that notice of termination is
subject to this part of the performance condition will vest. If this given, other than in the case of redundancy, Mr Coombe is
condition is not met, then none of the shares subject to this part required to mitigate any loss of earnings resulting thereafter.
ofthe performance condition will vest.
Executive Directors’ service contracts contain garden leave,
Benefits non-competition, non-solicitation and confidentiality clauses.
Executive Directors participate in GlaxoSmithKline’s senior executive
The R&N Committee believes that one year contracts would not
pension plans. These are defined benefit plans in the UK and cash
bein the best interest of GlaxoSmithKline with regard to offering
balance plans in the USA. Benefits are payable at age 60. The US
aglobally competitive overall remuneration package and securing
cash balance plans provide a pension payable from a fund to which
maximum protection for its intellectual property rights.
contributions of up to tenpercent of earnings are paid and interest
accrues based on Treasury Bill rates. Bonuses are pensionable for all Non-Executive Directors of GlaxoSmithKline do not have service
participating employees in the US plans, including Executive contracts.
Directors.
Payment of Non-Executive Directors in GlaxoSmithKline
Executive Directors participate in legacy Glaxo Wellcome and
shares
SmithKline Beecham employee share plans in either the UK or USA
and in the GlaxoSmithKline plans that replaced them. Under the To enhance the link between Directors and shareholders,
US arrangements Dr Garnier received four per cent of his basic pay GlaxoSmithKline requires Non-Executive Directors to receive a
in the form of GlaxoSmithKline shares. Under the UKarrangements significant part of their fees in the form of shares allocated to a
Mr Coombe is a member of a sharesave plan and from November share account and offers the opportunity to invest part or all of
2001 joined the employee ShareReward Plan contributing £125 the balance of fees in a share account. These shares are not paid
per month to buy shares. The number of shares bought each month out until the Director’s retirement from the Board, or at a later date,
is matched by the company. onthe basis of dividends being reinvested in the interim.
Other benefits, such as healthcare, are provided in line with the
practice in the market where the executive is employed.
Share ownership guidelines
To align executive interest with that of shareholders, Executive
Directors are required to hold shares in the company. The Chief
Executive Officer is required to hold shares to the value of four
times base pay. Other Executive Directors of GlaxoSmithKline are
required to hold shares to the value of three times base pay.
For purposes of these requirements shares and ADSs held in
SmithKline Beecham’s bonus deferral plans and vested but deferred
awards under long-term incentive plans are included. As at the
year-end Dr Garnier’s total shareholding on this basis was 130,058
ADSs and Mr Coombe’s was 99,920 shares and as a result both
Directors exceeded the share ownership guidelines.38 GlaxoSmithKline Remuneration report
Directors’ remuneration 2001
The table below sets out the remuneration earned by Directors of GlaxoSmithKline plc in 2001. The comparative amounts represent the
remuneration earned by Directors of Glaxo Wellcome plc and SmithKline Beecham plc in 2000. Statutory disclosures in respect of Directors’
remuneration attributable to Directors of GlaxoSmithKline plc in 2000, in relation to their services to the company and its subsidiaries, from
27th to 31st December 2000, are set out in Note 34 to the Financial statements.
Annual compensation 2001 2000
Other Annual and Total Other Total
Fees and emoluments deferred annual Fees and emoluments annual
salary and benefits bonus compensation salary and benefits Bonus compensation
Notes £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Executive Directors
Dr J P Garnier a,e 991 101 2,417 3,509 820 111 1,151 2,082
Mr J D Coombe b,e 475 3 848 1,326 468 2 321 791
Total 1,466 104 3,265 4,835 1,288 113 1,472 2,873
Non-Executive Directors
Sir Richard Sykes c,f 411 3 – 414 1,034 3 708 1,745
Sir Roger Hurn d,f,g 135 – – 135 60 – – 60
Sir Peter Walters f,g,h 135 1 – 136 324 285 – 609
Mr P A Allaire f,h 68 – – 68 63 – – 63
Dr M Barzach d,f 63 39 – 102 35 37 – 72
Mr D C Bonham d,f 29 – – 29 35 – – 35
Sir Christopher Hogg f,h 63 – – 63 65 – – 65
Sir Peter Job d,f,g 63 – – 63 35 – – 35
Mr J H McArthur d,f,g 68 5 – 73 35 13 – 48
Mr D F McHenry f,h 68 – – 68 60 – – 60
Sir Ian Prosser f,g,h 63 – – 63 53 – – 53
Dr R Schmitz d,f,g 70 – – 70 35 – – 35
Dr L Shapiro f,g,h,i 68 – – 68 63 – – 63
Mr J A Young f,g,h 80 – – 80 66 – – 66
Total 1,384 48 – 1,432 1,963 338 708 3,009
Total compensation 2,850 152 3,265 6,267 3,251 451 2,180 5,882
a Dr Garnier was an Executive Director of SmithKline Beecham during 2000. His salary and fees also include the company match on
compensation that is deferred.
b Mr Coombe was an Executive Director of Glaxo Wellcome during 2000. Included within his bonus for 2001 is the company match on
deferred 2001 bonus. In addition to the bonus shown above for 2001, Mr Coombe received £142,500 awarded in respect of the
second half of 2000 but not paid until 2001.
c Sir Richard Sykes was Executive Chairman of Glaxo Wellcome during 2000. He was remunerated as an Executive Director andreceived
an annual performance bonus. From 1st January 2001 he has been remunerated as Non-Executive Chairman of GlaxoSmithKline.
In addition, Sir Richard received a bonus of £314,700 awarded in respect of the second half of 2000 but not paid until 2001.
d Non-Executive Director of Glaxo Wellcome during 2000. Mr Bonham resigned as a Non-Executive Director of GlaxoSmithKline on
21stMay 2001.
e The bonuses above include the special deferred bonus which is not payable until 2005, as described on page 36.
f Shares and ADSs were automatically allocated to the following Non-Executive Directors as part of their fees: Sir Richard Sykes 6,000
shares (£110,995); Sir Roger Hurn 3,000 shares (£55,498); Sir Peter Walters 3,000 shares (£55,498); Mr P A Allaire 500 ADSs ($26,578);
Dr M Barzach 1,000 shares (£18,499); Mr D C Bonham 250 shares (£4,539); Sir Christopher Hogg 1,000 shares (£18,499); Sir Peter Job
1,000 shares (£18,499); Mr J H McArthur 500 ADSs ($26,578); Mr D F McHenry 500 ADSs ($26,578); Sir Ian Prosser 1,000 shares
(£18,499); Dr R Schmitz 1,000 shares (£18,499); Dr L Shapiro 500 ADSs ($26,578); Mr J A Young 500 ADSs ($26,578). The shares
allocated to their accounts are also included in Directors’ interests (page 42).
g The following Non-Executive Directors elected to receive part or all of the balance of their fees above in the form of shares and ADSs:
Sir Roger Hurn £30,000; Sir Peter Walters £30,000 (2000 – £25,000); Sir Peter Job £33,750; Mr J H McArthur $27,000; Sir Ian Prosser
£16,875; Dr R Schmitz £16,170; Dr L Shapiro £nil (2000 – $10,000); Mr J A Young $66,000 (2000 – $40,000). The shares allocated to
their accounts are also included in Directors’ interests (page 42).
h Non-Executive Director of SmithKline Beecham during 2000. Additional remuneration awarded to the Non-Executive Directors in 2000
was paid in the form of SmithKline Beecham shares and ADSs: Sir Peter Walters 6,000 shares (£48,360); Mr P A Allaire 400 ADSs
($25,676); Sir Christopher Hogg 2,000 shares (£16,120); Mr D F McHenry 400 ADSs ($25,676); Sir Ian Prosser 2,000 shares (£16,120);
Dr L Shapiro 400 ADSs ($25,676); Mr J A Young 400 ADSs ($25,676). The shares allocated to their accounts are also included in
Directors’ interests as GlaxoSmithKline shares (page 42).
i Dr Shapiro is a member of GlaxoSmithKline’s Scientific Advisory Board for which she received, in addition to the fees shown above, fees
of $85,000 (2000 – $85,000) with $30,000 (2000 – $30,000) in the form of ADSs.Remuneration reportGlaxoSmithKline 39
Share options
Lapsed Granted
Average Average
Options – ADSs grant price At 31.12.01 Exercised Number Grant price Number grant price At 31.12.00
Dr J P Garnier $46.67 2,897,443 77,370 – – 900,000 $51.63 2,074,813
Lapsed Granted
Average Average
Options – shares grant price At 31.12.01 Exercised Number Grant price Number grant price At 31.12.00
Mr J D Coombe £16.97 867,948 – – – 580,000 £18.04 287,948
Sir Richard Sykes £14.82 634,701 248 – – – – 634,949
None of the other Directors had an interest in any option over the company’s shares.
GlaxoSmithKline intends to grant share options to Directors and Senior Managers on an annual basis in November. An initial grant was
made following completion of the merger in March 2001. The measurement period for the options granted in March 2001 commenced
on 1st January 2001. The measurement period for the options granted in November 2001 commenced on 1st January 2002. At both
the March and November grants, Dr Garnier received 450,000 ADS options and Mr Coombe received 290,000 share options.
As a consequence of the merger all options granted prior to the merger became exercisable, with the exception of the options granted
to MrCoombe during 2000. Those options together with the options granted to Mr Coombe and Dr Garnier during 2001 will become
exercisable at varying times between February 2003 and November 2004. All of the options will lapse if not exercised at varying times
between May 2004 and November 2011. The Directors hold these options under the various share option plans referred to in Note 33
to the Financial statements, ‘Employee share schemes’. The share price on 6thMarch 2002 was £16.85 per GlaxoSmithKline Share and
$47.95 per GlaxoSmithKline ADS.
In connection with the merger, a circular and listing particulars were sent to shareholders in July 2000, at which time holders of options
over Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham shares and ADSs were offered the opportunity to exchange those options for options over
GlaxoSmithKline shares. Each of the Directors above elected to exchange all of their then outstanding Glaxo Wellcome or SmithKline
Beecham options, as applicable, into new options over GlaxoSmithKline shares and, along with all other Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline
Beecham share option plan participants who elected to exchange their options, will receive an additional benefit of a cash sum equal to
ten per cent of the exercise price of the original option. This additional benefit will be given when the new option is exercised, provided
the exercise is on or after the second anniversary of the effective date of the merger (or, as in the case of Sir Richard Sykes, on cessation
of executive employment, if earlier).
The highest and lowest prices during the year ended 31st December 2001 for GlaxoSmithKline shares were £20.32 and £16.26
respectively. The highest and lowest prices for GlaxoSmithKline ADSs during the year to 31st December 2001 were $58.00 and $47.15
respectively. The market prices for a GlaxoSmithKline share on 31st December 2001 was £17.23 (on 31st December 2000 – £18.90) and
for a GlaxoSmithKline ADS was $49.82 (on 31st December 2000 – $56.00).
Grant Market
Options exercised – ADSs Date Number price price
Dr J P Garnier 27.07.01 77,370 $12.89 $57.19
Grant Market
Options exercised – shares Date Number price price
Sir Richard Sykes 23.02.01 248 £13.27 £19.30
The gain on options exercised by Directors during the year to 31st December 2001 was £2,408,992, comprising £2,407,497 relating to
DrGarnier and £1,495 relating to Sir Richard Sykes. This compares to a gain on exercise of options during the year to 31st December
2000 of £936,315, comprising £461,840 relating to Dr Garnier and £474,475 relating to Sir Richard Sykes.40 GlaxoSmithKline Remuneration report
Incentive plans
ADSs ADSs
Performance Share Plan – ADSs at 31.12.01 Lapsed Awarded Granted at 31.12.00
Dr J P Garnier – 2001 plan 70,000 – – 70,000 –
2002 plan 70,000 – – 70,000 –
Shares Shares
Performance Share Plan – shares at 31.12.01 Lapsed Awarded Granted at 31.12.00
Mr J D Coombe – 2001 plan 40,000 – – 40,000 –
2002 plan 40,000 – – 40,000 –
The Performance Share Plan (PSP) is a medium-term incentive scheme introduced during 2001. The PSP replaces the Long-Term Incentive
Plan and the Mid-Term Incentive Plan operated respectively by Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham.
Under the terms of the PSP the number of shares actually vesting is determined following the end of the relevant measurement period of
three years and is dependent on GlaxoSmithKline’s performance during that period. Usually, the award of shares will be made in November
of the year preceding the start of the three year measurement period. An initial grant was made following completion of the merger in
March 2001. The measurement period, relating to shares awarded in March 2001, commenced on 1st January 2001 and will end on
31st December 2003. For shares awarded in November 2001 the measurement period commenced on 1st January 2002 and will end
on 31st December 2004.
Shares exercised
Average Money
market price value on
Shares on exercise exercise Shares not Shares
Long-Term Incentive Plan – shares at 31.12.01 Number £ £ vesting at 31.12.00
Mr J D Coombe 41,100 25,120 18.45 463,464 – 66,220
Sir Richard Sykes – 147,344 19.30 2,843,739 – 147,344
The Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) was a share award scheme operated by Glaxo Wellcome. The plan closed to new entrants upon
completion of the merger and no further grants have been made. The awards made to Mr Coombe in March 1999 and February 2000
will vest in March 2002 and February 2003 respectively. The awards made in March 1999 and February 2000 to Sir Richard Sykes
vested when Sir Richard left executive office on completion of the merger. Awards made under the LTIP will lapse if not exercised within
12 months of vesting. Performance conditions lapsed upon completion of the merger. Shares under the LTIP are awarded atnominal cost
to the recipient.
Vested and Vested and
deferred deferred Unvested Participations Participations Unvested
participations participations participations lapsed awarded participations
Mid-Term Incentive Plan – ADSs at 31.12.01 at 31.12.00 at 31.12.01 in 2001 in 2001 at 31.12.00
Dr J P Garnier 76,323 56,231 73,970 – 18,891 92,861
The Mid-Term Incentive Plan (MTIP) was a share award scheme operated by SmithKline Beecham. The plan closed to new entrants upon
completion of the merger and no further participations have been granted. In connection with the merger, the performance conditions in
respect of grants made in 1998 and 1999 have lapsed, although the final award will not be made to employees who resign before the end
of the relevant measurement period.
Where a final award of shares is made, receipt of the award may be deferred by a Director. Dr Garnier deferred receipt of the full amount
awarded in 1999, 2000 and 2001. The deferred awards, together with any additional ADSs subsequently received through dividend
reinvestment, arenot included in the Directors’ interests table on page 42 since technically they are retained in the MTIP until paid out.
Average
Stock Appreciation Rights (SARs) – ADSs grant price At 31.12.01 Exercised Granted At 31.12.00
Dr L Shapiro $50.34 1,487 – – 1,487
Dr Shapiro is a member of GlaxoSmithKline’s Scientific Advisory Board (SAB). Dr Shapiro was a member of SmithKline Beecham’s SAB
from 1993 until the completion of the merger with Glaxo Wellcome. Along with other members of the SAB, she received annual grants
of SmithKline Beecham SARs which, in general, vested three years from the date of grant. Grants of SARs to SAB members ceased in 1999.
SARs entitle the holder to a cash sum at a future date based on share price growth between the date of grant and the date of exercise.
Full provision is made in the accounts for accrued gains on SARs from the date of grant. In connection with the merger, all previously
granted SARs became immediately exercisable.Remuneration reportGlaxoSmithKline 41
Pensions
Pension benefits are accruing to the following Directors under defined benefit schemes. The accrued annual benefits for individual
Directors on retirement are set out below:
Change over
year net of
31.12.01 inflation
Age £000 £000
Dr J P Garnier 54 966 78
Mr J D Coombe 57 274 8
Sir Richard Sykes 59 700 22
Dr Garnier is a member of the SmithKline Beecham all-employee US Pension Plans. He has no entitlement to a spouse’s or children’s
pension other than by surrendering a part of his own pension. On early retirement, his pension will be reduced by the same factors,
relating to age and service, that apply to all employees. However, in Dr Garnier’s case, he receives an additional three years’ service when
he retires from GlaxoSmithKline and in certain circumstances a further three years accrual. Pension increases may be granted on a
discretionary basis. No transfer values are payable on leaving thePlans. Dr Garnier is also a member of a money purchase scheme.
During 2001 contributions of £4,722 were paid into this scheme.
Mr Coombe and Sir Richard Sykes are members of the Glaxo Wellcome UK Pension Plan. Their spouses would be provided with a
pension of two-thirds of the executive’s pension in the event of their death. In the event that either decided to take early retirement,
the pension would be reduced by three per cent for each year before the age of 60 that they retire. The company has agreed to procure
that Sir Richard Sykes’ pension from the age of 60 will be calculated on the basis of his salary as at 31st December 2000 and as if he had
remained in full-time employment until his 60th birthday. Pensions are guaranteed to increase in payment by the rate of increase in the
UK Retail Price Index (RPI) up to a maximum of 12 per cent a year. Discretionary increases may be paid in addition. No allowance would
be made for discretionary increases in the transfer values on leaving.42 GlaxoSmithKline Remuneration report
Directors and Senior Management
Directors’ interests
The following beneficial interests of the Directors of the company are shown in the register maintained by the company in accordance with
the Companies Act 1985:
Shares ADSs
6th March 31 December 31 December 6th March 31 December 31 December
Note 2002 2001 2000 2002 2001 2000
Dr J P Garnier – – – 54,180 53,735 52,867
Mr J D Coombe a,b 150,870 150,836 164,203 – – –
Sir Richard Sykes c,e 498,466 498,466 538,665 – – –
Sir Roger Hurn e 15,519 15,519 10,539 – – –
Sir Peter Walters e 36,617 36,617 31,486 – – –
Mr P A Allaire e – – – 6,660 6,660 6,148
Dr M Barzach e 1,990 1,990 812 – – –
Sir Christopher Hogg e 6,216 6,216 5,128 – – –
Sir Peter Job e 5,027 5,023 2,003 – – –
Mr J H McArthur e – – – 5,654 5,631 3,558
Mr D F McHenry d,e – – – 6,562 6,562 6,043
Sir Ian Prosser e 4,255 4,255 2,321 – – –
Dr R Schmitz e 1,878 1,878 – 3,840 3,840 3,752
Dr L Shapiro e 1,518 1,518 1,372 2,218 2,218 1,174
Mr J A Young e 5,373 5,373 5,144 9,035 9,035 7,286
One GlaxoSmithKline ADS represents two GlaxoSmithKline shares.
a Includes shares purchased through the GlaxoSmithKline ShareReward Plan totalling 14 shares at 31st December 2001 (2000 – nil) and
42shares at 6th March 2002.
b Includes a non-beneficial interest in trusts which hold 16,901 shares at 31st December 2001 (2000 – 20,396) and 16,901 shares at 6th
March 2002.
c Includes a non-beneficial interest in trusts which hold 36,612 shares at 31st December 2001 (2000 – 36,612) and 36,612 shares at 6th
March 2002.
d In addition to the interests shown above, Mr McHenry has interests in a deferred fees plan relating to the period during which
MrMcHenry was a Director of SmithKline Beckman priorto the merger with Beecham Group in 1989. The deferred fees are now
indexed to the total return on GlaxoSmithKline shares and are payable over seven years following Mr McHenry’s retirement. The total
accumulated value of deferred fees on 31st December 2001 (restated to reflect the merger) was equivalent to 21,307 GlaxoSmithKline
ADSs and has been fully provided for.
e Includes shares and ADSs received as part or all of their fees as described in footnotes f, g and h to the Annual compensation table
under ‘Directors’ remuneration 2001’ on page 38. Dividends received on these shares and ADSs were converted to shares and ADSs as
at 31st December 2001. These are also included in the Directors’ interests above.
The interests of the above-mentioned Directors at 6thMarch 2002 reflect changes between the end of the financial year and 6thMarch 2002.
Each of the Directors beneficially owns less than one per cent of the issued share capital of the company.
Directors’ interests in contracts
Except as described, during or at the end of the financial year, no Director or connected person had any material interest in any contract
of significance in relation to the Group’s business with a Group company.
Directors and Senior Management
For US reporting purposes, it is necessary to provide information on compensation and interests of Directors and Senior Management
asagroup (‘the group’). For the purposes of this disclosure, the group is defined as the Directors, members of the Corporate Executive
Team and the Company Secretary at 6th March 2002 numbering 28 persons. GlaxoSmithKline aims to provide a package of incentives and
rewards which will be competitive by reference to other global healthcare companies as well as other multinational companies considered
similar to GlaxoSmithKline in terms of size, geographical spread and complexity of business. The remuneration of the Group consists of:
salary; performance bonus; long-term incentives in the form of share options and participation in a Performance Share Plan and benefits.
In respect of the financial year 2001, the total compensation paid to the group was £15,485,337, the aggregate increase in accrued
pension benefits was £386,729 and the aggregate payment to defined contribution schemes was £172,081. As of 6thMarch 2002, the
group owned 944,144 shares and 296,662 ADSs, constituting less than one per cent of the issued share capital of the company. The group
also held, as of that date, options to purchase 3,758,311 shares and 6,267,754 ADSs, all of which were issued pursuant to the various
executive share option plans described in Note 33 to the financial statements. The group were also awarded shares and ADSs under
GlaxoSmithKline’s Performance Share Plan and as at 6th March 2002 held 212,000 shares and 435,000 ADSs.GlaxoSmithKline 43
Operating and financial review
and prospects
The Operating and financial review and prospects discusses the
operating and financial performance of the Group, the financial
outlook and the financial resources of the Group, under the
following headings:
44 Financial trends and ratios
45 2001 Year – results for the year to 31st December 2001 compared
to the year to 31st December 2000
52 Financial position and resources – at 31st December 2001
56 Outlook and risk factors
Additionally, in accordance with US requirements:
58 2000 Year – results for the year to 31st December 2000 compared
to the year to 31st December 1999
63 Selected financial data UK/US GAAP
64 Results under US accounting principles 2001 and 2000
The results for each year are compared primarily with the results
for the preceding year. Reference is made also to quarterly and
half-yearly trends within the results.
Exchange
The Group, as a multinational business, operates in many
countriesand earns revenues and incurs costs in many currencies.
The results of the Group, as reported in sterling, are therefore
affected bymovements in exchange rates between sterling and
overseascurrencies.
The company uses the average exchange rates prevailing during the
period to translate the results and cash flows of overseas Group
subsidiary and associated undertakings and joint ventures into
sterling and period end rates to translate the net assets of those
undertakings. The currencies which most influence these translations
are the USdollar, the Euro and the Japanese yen.
In order to illustrate underlying business performance, excluding
theeffect of exchange rate movements on translation, it is the
Group’s practice to discuss its results in terms of constant exchange
rate (CER) growth. This represents growth calculated as if the
exchange rates used totranslate the results of overseas companies
into sterling had remained unchanged from those used in the
previous period. The discussion in this review is therefore in terms
of CER unless otherwise stated.44 GlaxoSmithKline Operating and financial review and prospects
Financial trends and ratios
2001 2000 1999
% of % % of % % of %
Business performance £m total CER £m total CER £m total CER
Sales:
Pharmaceuticals 17,205 84.0 9 15,429 85.3 10 13,618 84.2 7
Consumer Healthcare 3,284 16.0 22 2,650 14.7 3 2,546 15.8 8
Total 20,489 100.0 11 18,079 100.0 9 16,164 100.0 7
Cost of sales (4,430) (21.6) (3,811) (21.1) (3,499) (21.6)
Selling, general and administration (7,451) (36.4) (6,732) (37.2) (6,002) (37.2)
Research and development (2,555) (12.5) (2,510) (13.9) (2,285) (14.1)
Trading profit – retained businesses 6,053 29.5 16 5,026 27.8 12 4,378 27.1 3
Trading profit – divested businesses – – 25
Trading profit – total 6,053 5,026 4,403
Profit before taxation 6,169 12 5,327 11 4,708 6
Earnings 4,391 14 3,697 13 3,222 8
Earnings per share (pence) 72.4p 14 61.0p 14 52.7p 8
Research and development – business performance
Pharmaceuticals 2,453 2,435 2,211
Consumer Healthcare 102 75 74
Total 2,555 2,510 2,285
Business performance, which is the primary performance measure used by management, is presented after excluding merger items,
integration and restructuring costs and the disposal of subsidiaries. Management believes that exclusion of these non-recurring items
provides a better comparison of business performance for the periods presented. Accordingly, this information is provided as a supplement
to that included in the consolidated statement of profit and loss on pages 68 and 69 prepared in accordance with UKGAAP. Total results
include these non-recurring items.
2001 2000 1999
Total results £m £m £m
Profit before taxation 4,517 6,029 4,236
Earnings 3,059 4,154 2,859
Earnings per share (pence) 50.4p 68.5p 46.7p
Interest
Net interest payable 88 182 162
Interest cover 52times 34 times 27 times
Interest cover is calculated as total profit before interest divided by net interest payable.
Tax rate
Business performance 26.7% 27.3% 28.2%
Total results 29.4% 28.2% 28.8%
Borrowings
Net debt 2,101 611 2,357
Gearing ratio 20% 6% 26%
The gearing ratio is calculated as net debt as a percentage of shareholders’ funds, net debt and minority interests.Operating and financial review and prospects GlaxoSmithKline 45
2001 Year
World economy World market – pharmaceuticals
2001 was characterised by a sharp deterioration in the global Global pharmaceutical sales increased by 12 per cent in 2001 to
economic outlook. While some sort of downturn (“soft-landing”) £247billion, the same rate of growth as in 2000.
was unequivocally emerging during the second part of 2000, the
real magnitude of the slowdown only became apparent on moving World market by Value % of Growth
geographic region £bn total %
into 2001. Many factors contributed to this: a significant over-
investment in 1999 – 2000, especially in technology; a significant USA 110 45 17
impact from energy costs, due to higher oil prices, which tempered Europe 61 25 10
consumer demand; the weakness of Japan’s economy; and last but Germany 12 5 9
not least, the tragic events in the USA in September which left the France 12 5 9
economy in a world of uncertainty. Italy 8 3 13
UK 8 3 9
The USA and Asia were the regions most affected by the downturn,
Japan 32 13 4
with US GDP growth decelerating swiftly from 4.1 per cent in 2000
Latin America 15 6 1
to 1.0 per cent in 2001, due to strong exposure to technology, and
Asia Pacific 17 7 15
excess capacity. The Euro-area, which at the beginning of the year
Middle East, Africa 7 2 2
seemed to be able to weather the slowdown much better than
Canada 5 2 16
other economies, also started to decelerate significantly, particularly
Total 247 100 12
in Germany. Japan continued to be the laggard, trapped by
deflation, bad credit problems, and soaring public debt. During the
The US market remained buoyant and now represents 45 per cent
year, emerging markets were hit by the turmoil in Turkey and
of the global prescription pharmaceutical market compared to
Argentina, but contagion effects have been relatively limited so far,
31per cent a decade ago.
compared with previous crises.
GlaxoSmithKline holds second position in the world pharmaceutical
Against this background, economic policy response has been
market with a market share of 7.04 per cent (excluding products
remarkable. The USFederal Reserve acted swiftly at the beginning
divested as a result of the merger), behind Pfizer with a market
of the year, with a half per cent interest rate cut, followed by a very
share of 7.11 per cent.
aggressive stance thereafter, for an overall easing of 4.75 per cent
in 2001. The European Central Bank reduced its rates by 1.5per GlaxoSmithKline has eight products in the world’s Top 50 products;
cent in 2001. In Japan, although the Bank of Japan moved to a these are Avandia, Augmentin, Flixotide, Imigran, Serevent,
quantitative easing, monetary policy continued to be generally Seroxat/Paxil, Wellbutrin and Zofran.
ineffective, due to the problem of non-performing loans affecting
the banking system. These differences in monetary policy reflected World market – Value % of Growth
top five therapeutic classes £bn total %
the different degree of slowdown – deepest in the USA, shallower
Cardiovascular 43 18 10
in Europe – but also the developments in the currency markets,
Central nervous system 38 15 16
where the US dollar reached the highest level in the past 15 years.
Alimentary tract and metabolic 34 14 10
The events in September hit the global economy hard, when it was Anti-infectives (bacterial,
already heading towards recession, creating further disruption. viral and fungal) excluding vaccines 28 11 6
Specific sectors, particularly transport and insurance, were severely Respiratory 19 8 14
hit. Confidence collapsed around the world and global trade
continued to decline. However in the last few months of the year,
(Note: Data based on 12 months to 30th September 2001.)
business and consumer confidence were stabilising towards the
pre-September levels, boding well for a recovery in 2002.
Exchange
With the significant injection of liquidity at global level, fiscal policy
remaining stimulatory, and the inventory cycle turning strongly £/Euro £/US$ £/JPY Jun 96 = 100
favourable, the global economy seems to be set for a rebound in 150
2002. But there are doubts about the pace of recovery. Due to
rising unemployment, the still high degree of leverage both at
corporate and consumer levels, and the overhang of global spare
capacity, real GDP growth in 2002 is still only likely to be moderate.
Pharmaceutical markets generally showed consistent growth
100
throughout the year but prices remained under pressure with
legislators and regulators in several of the world’s largest and
wealthiest economies introducing, or proposing, legislative
Jun 96 Dec 96 Jun 97 Dec 97 Jun 98 Dec 98 Jun 99 Dec 99 Jun 00 Dec 00 Jun 01 Dec 01
measures to cut prices and/or slow the rate of growth of spending
on medicines.
On average during 2001 sterling exchange rates were weaker
against the US dollar and the Euro and stronger against the Yen
compared with 2000. In aggregate, currency movements in 2001
compared with 2000 had a net favourable effect on sterling results
of two per cent in respect of sales and five per cent in respect of
business performance earnings per share.46 GlaxoSmithKline Operating and financial review and prospects
Pharmaceutical sales An application for the EU registration of Seretidefor the treatment
of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) was submitted in
Total pharmaceutical sales in 2001 were £17,205 million compared
September. In January 2002, an FDA Advisory Committee
to £15,429 million in 2000, an increase of nine per cent. On a like
recommended approval of Advairand Floventfor the treatment of
for like basis, if sales of products divested in 2000 as part of the
COPD associated with bronchitis. Flixotideand Serevent,as
regulatory approval for the merger of Glaxo Wellcome and
individual agents, are already approved in several countries for the
SmithKline Beecham are excluded, sales grew 12 per cent from
treatment of COPD.
£14,982 million in 2000. Approximately one per cent of this overall
growth came from price increases. As expected, sales of Flixotide/Floventand Sereventdeclined in
various markets due to the increased momentum of Seretide/Advair.
Within GlaxoSmithKline’s existing portfolio, sales of new products,
Sales of Flixonase/Flonase, used in the treatment of perennial
those launched in a major market within the last five years,
rhinitis, grew strongly.
accounted for 22 per cent of total sales and grew by 48 per cent to
£3,709 million. Sales of the more established, franchise products The older respiratory products Ventolinand Becotidecontinued to
amounted to £9,481 million representing 55 per cent of total sales decline as patients converted to newer products.
and growth of 11 per cent compared to last year. Although older
products, now less actively promoted, at £4,015 million account for Anti-bacterials
23 per cent of total sales, sales of these products declined by seven Although overall sales in anti-bacterials showed little growth, the
per cent. broad-spectrum antibiotic, Augmentin,is still one of the highest
selling products in the Group’s portfolio and achieved 13 per cent
Pharmaceutical sales growth in the fourth quarter of 2001 was
growth worldwide. Augmentin ES-600(extra strength) was
12 per cent to £4,719 million, with sales in the USA contributing
launched in the USA in October for the treatment of children
£2,466 million; a growth of 15 per cent. Although US wholesaler
with recurrent or persistent middle ear infections. A submission
buying patterns distorted some product sales, total reported
for FDA approval of Augmentin XR(extended release) has been
sales growth was in line with underlying demand as indicated by
submitted but extra data and other information has been requested
prescription data. In Europe sales improved five per cent to
by the FDA.
£1,228 million, and in the Rest of the World sales improved `
13 per cent to £1,025 million. Overall, sales of the older products, Zinnat/Ceftin, Fortumand
Amoxilcontinued to decline, although sales of Zinnat/Ceftingrew
Pharmaceutical sales by therapeutic area in Central and Eastern Europe by 13 per cent.
Central nervous system
Anti-virals
This major therapeutic area in GlaxoSmithKline’s portfolio recorded
GlaxoSmithKline continues to expand its leadership in HIV/AIDS
a sales growth of 16 per cent. Seroxat/Paxiland Wellbutrindrove
with a current global market share of 40 per cent.
sales growth in the anti-depressant sector up 20 per cent. In April
2001 Paxilwas approved by the US Food and Drug Administration Trizivir, GlaxoSmithKline’s new triple combination medicine for
(FDA) for the treatment of generalised anxiety disorder (GAD) and HIV/AIDS available in one tablet, was the key driver of growth in
in December for the treatment of post-traumatic stress disorder the HIV/AIDS franchise. It was launched in a number of key markets
(PTSD). Seroxat/Paxilis now approved in 28 countries for the during the year including much of Europe, the USA and Canada.
treatment of GAD and in 20 countries for the treatment of PTSD.
Sales of Combivir, which is a combination of Epivirand Retrovir,
Wellbutrinsales were driven by US sales growth of 37 per cent, as
grew five per cent. The major growth markets were Japan, Asia
a result of increased awareness amongst physicians of its efficacy
Pacific, Middle East, Latin America and Africa.
and favourable side effect profile in non-anxious depressed patients.
Sales of Ziagenincreased five per cent. Approval was received for
In the migraine sector the successful launch in Japan of Imigran
a paediatric indication in October for use in the EU. Ziagenis
Tablets 50,where this treatment had previously been available only
approved already in more than 45 countries worldwide for the
as an injection, helped Imigran/Imitrexsales grow by four per cent.
treatment of HIV/AIDS in adults.
Lamictalfor the treatment of epilepsy grew strongly as did sales of
Requipfor Parkinson’s disease. Zybanthe smoking cessation Sales of Zeffix, for hepatitis B, grew in all market regions. In the
product was launched in France. USA, Zeffix, where it is marketed under the name Epivir-HBV, was
approved for the treatment of children over two years old in August.
Respiratory
The performance of the herpes treatments Valtrexand Zovirax
The successful launch of the asthma treatment Seretide/Advair
produced a combined sales growth of five per cent. In the USA
in the USA and in a number of further countries in Europe and
Valtrex sales were helped by a DTC advertising campaign and the
the Rest of the World helped boost sales growth. This product,
approval in the USA of a shorter, three-day, course of therapy for
a combination of Flixotide/Floventand Serevent, is now available
recurrent genital herpes. The decline of Zoviraxin some regions of
in 36 countries. Worldwide sales of Seretide/Advairexceeded
the world results from both a transfer to the newer Valtrexproduct
$1billion in 2001. In the USA three million prescriptions were
and generic competition.
written in the nine months following its launch in April 2001.
The speed at which patients have adopted Seretide/Advairin the
USA makes it one of the most successful pharmaceutical product
launches ever. Seretide/Advair is GlaxoSmithKline's largest product
in Europe with sales of £441 million in 2001.Operating and financial review and prospectsGlaxoSmithKline 47
Pharmaceutical sales by therapeutic area 2001
Total USA Europe RoW
Therapeutic area/ % of 2001 2000 % CER* 2001 % CER 2001 % CER 2001 % CER
major products total 0 500 1,000 1,500 2000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 4,500 £m £m growth £m growth £m growth £m growth
CNS 23 4,007 3,279 16 2,835 14 779 13 393 34
Depression 2,504 2,002 20 1,880 20 378 12 246 40
Seroxat/Paxil 1,857 1,550 16 1,252 13 378 12 227 41
c
Wellbutrin 647 452 37 628 37 – – 19 27
Migraine 849 782 5 630 2 165 8 54 33
Imigran/Imitrex 758 705 4 575 1 136 7 47 34
Naramig/Amerge 91 77 15 55 15 29 12 7 25
Lamictal 355 289 20 179 23 139 18 37 12
Requip 75 58 25 36 31 36 19 3 35
Zyban 129 115 11 54 (14) 42 20 33 67
Respiratory 21 3,537 2,789 24 1,646 40 1,276 13 615 16
Flixotide/Flovent,
Serevent, Seretide/Advair 2,410 1,710 38 1,179 52 929 24 302 38
Flixotide/Flovent 915 880 2 470 9 263 (15) 182 18
Serevent 645 622 1 381 10 225 (13) 39 4
Seretide/Advair 850 208 >100 328 >100 441 >100 81 >100
Flixonase/Flonase 504 408 20 374 21 54 19 76 13
Ventolin 306 343 (9) 29 (10) 134 (11) 143 (8)
Becotide 161 205 (22) – – 122 (20) 39 (20)
Anti-bacterials 15 2,604 2,472 3 1,304 10 702 (1) 598 (4)
Augmentin 1,421 1,219 13 912 21 322 (2) 187 6
Zinnat/Ceftin 409 430 (7) 180 (17) 123 6 106 (3)
Fortum 209 213 (2) 41 (1) 92 3 76 (7)
Amoxil 149 199 (26) 31 (44) 50 (20) 68 (20)
Anti-virals 12 2,128 1,899 10 1,071 11 589 9 468 8
HIV 1,347 1,145 14 794 11 405 16 148 31
Trizivir 167 7 >100 115 >100 49 >100 3 >100
Combivir 606 562 5 358 (1) 182 4 66 50
Epivir 302 309 (5) 161 (6) 95 (7) 46 4
Retrovir 55 61 (11) 24 (9) 20 (13) 11 (13)
Ziagen 167 154 5 98 (7) 51 15 18 66
Agenerase 50 52 (7) 38 (21) 8 76 4 >100
Herpes 646 616 5 255 29 157 (5) 234 (7)
Valtrex 350 242 42 212 38 69 18 69 99
Zovirax 296 374 (19) 43 (1) 88 (17) 165 (24)
Zeffix 103 70 49 7 29 12 60 84 50
Metabolic and
gastro-intestinal 9 1,480 1,232 10 730 17 299 (3) 451 9
Avandia 707 462 46 623 37 32 >100 52 >100
Zantac 505 575 (11) 106 (16) 162 (15) 237 (5)
Vaccines 6 948 842 10 261 20 396 – 291 19
Hepatitis 445 462 (6) 187 9 183 (14) 75 (15)
Infanrix 238 171 36 72 97 116 16 50 32
Oncology and emesis 5 838 710 14 611 17 142 8 85 9
Zofran 601 491 19 428 21 108 14 65 14
Hycamtin 90 95 (9) 60 (11) 23 (5) 7 (4)
Cardiovascular 3 591 463 23 385 30 135 20 71 (2)
Coreg 251 148 56 242 56 – – 9 66
Arthritis (Relafen) 1 156 249 (29) 134 (28) 10 (45) 12 (22)
Other 5 916 1,047 (4) 60 (62) 233 (2) 623 11
Total sales
continuing business 100 17,205 14,982 12 9,037 16 4,561 7 3,607 10
Divested products – 447 – – – – – – –
Total pharmaceutical sales100 17,205 15,429 9 9,037 4,561 3,607
*CER represents sales growth at constant exchange rates. Sterling growth can be calculated from the figures given above. An analysis of sales by quarter is given in the Financial record (pages 134 to 137).48 GlaxoSmithKline Operating and financial review and prospects
Metabolic and gastro-intestinal USA
Avandia, a glitazone for the treatment of type 2 diabetes, was the The Group earned 53 per cent of total pharmaceutical revenue
key driver of growth in the metabolic and gastro-intestinal therapy in the USA in the year, recording a growth of 16 per cent.
area. In the USA Avandiasales benefited from increased acceptance Advair/Seretide launched in mid-April 2001 achieved sales of
of this revolutionary class of drugs to record growth of 37 per cent. £328million. Although this launch slowed sales growth of its
Avandia, launched in China and Italy in 2001, is currently approved constituent products, Flixotide/Floventand Serevent, combined
in over 70 countries and was filed for marketing approval in Japan sales of these three products amounted to £1,179 million with
in December. growth of 52 per cent.
Sales of Zantachave continued their decline in the face of generic In the CNS therapeutic area Seroxat/Paxil, launched for generalised
competition. anxiety disorder in April, grew strongly and Wellbutrincontinued its
good growth record. Both of these products benefited from the
Vaccines growing anti-depressant market in the USA. Lamictal,indicated for
Infanrix, GlaxoSmithKline’s combination vaccine for diphtheria, epilepsy, grew 23 per cent.
tetanus, and pertussis (whooping cough) drove total vaccines sales
In the anti-bacterials sector Augmentinreflected gains in share of
growth of 10 per cent. This together with strong growth by Priorix,
both the adult and paediatric markets. Growth was bolstered by
Tritanrixand Typherixmore than offset a decline in the hepatitis
the launch of the ES (extra strength) formulation, which is indicated
portfolio of Twinrix, Havrixand Engerix-B. Subsequent to the year
for the treatment of children with acute otitis media (middle ear
end GlaxoSmithKline announced the discontinuation of LYMErixin
infections).
the USA as a result of poor demand for the product.
The combination treatment Trizivirwas launched into the US market
Oncology and emesis in late 2000. Sales in its first full financial year amounted to
The continued sales growth of Zofran, used for management of £115 million helping to produce 11 per cent sales growth in the
nausea and vomiting associated with chemotherapy and HIV/AIDS sector of anti-virals. Also in the anti-virals market, Valtrex
radiotherapy cancer treatment, benefited the oncology and emesis for herpes showed a strong performance.
therapy area which grew by 14 per cent overall. Sales of Hycamtin,
approved for the treatment of recurrent ovarian cancer, declined Europe
by 9 per cent, principally as a result of adverse wholesaler buying Europe region contributed 26 per cent of pharmaceutical sales with
patterns in the USA. the largest market, France, showing strong growth. Good growth
was recorded in other major markets including Italy, Spain and
Cardiovascular Central and Eastern Europe. Seretidewas a major sales driver in the
Sales of Coreggrew 56 per cent. In November the FDA gave it region although, as in the USA, this affected sales of its constituent
approval for the treatment of severe heart failure. Coregis the only products. Seretide/Advairis now the largest product in Europe with
beta-blocking agent indicated to increase survival in mild, moderate, sales of £441 million.
and severe heart failure patients. GlaxoSmithKline has exclusive
In the CNS area Seroxat, coupled with the launch of Zybanin most
rights to market Coregin the USA.
markets, contributed most of the growth. Launches of Trizivir
helped produce a 16 per cent growth in the HIV/AIDS sector.
Other therapeutic areas
Sales of Relafenfor arthritis fell reflecting generic competition in In metabolic and gastro-intestinal, Zantacsales continued to decline
the USA. in the face of increased generic competition. This was partially
offset by the performance of Avandiawith launchesin a number of
Regional analysis markets including the UK and Germany.
Pharmaceutical sales by geographic area 2001 Anti-bacterials declined one per cent reflecting generic competition
for Augmentinand Amoxil. Vaccines showed no growth due to a
Region/ % of 2001 2000 % CER*
major markets total 0 3,000 6,000 9,000 £m £m growth decline in the hepatitis market in Germany, although sales improved
in other European countries principally UK, Spain and Italy.
USA 53 9,037 7,464 16
Europe 26 4,561 4,225 7 In the Oncology area most of the growth was attributable to strong
France 5 823 756 10 sales of Zofranin France and Germany offset by a decline in
UK 5 791 772 5 Hycamtinsales in most European countries.
Italy 4 627 553 11
Germany 3 519 502 5
Spain 2 440 408 8 Rest of the World
Central & 2 350 277 20 A 10 per cent sales growth in the Rest of the World region reflected
Eastern Europe strong growth in all major markets in this region.
Other Europe 5 1,011 957 –
The market growth in Japan was driven by a number of therapeutic
Rest of World 21 3,607 3,293 10
areas. The launch of the tablet form of Imigranin August 2001 and
Asia Pacific 7 1,119 1,033 9
Seroxatin late 2000 were key drivers. The switch from Becotideto
Japan 4 741 702 13
Latin America 5 790 680 8 the newer product Flixotideand from Zoviraxto the newer Valtrex
Middle East, Africa 3 539 504 11 contributed to the sales growth of the newer products but led also
Canada 2 418 374 13
to a decline in the older products.
100 17,205 14,982 12
In Canada significant growth was achieved by Seretideand
*CER represents sales growth at constant exchange rates. Sterling growth can be calculated Avandia, which was launched in March 2001. In other therapeutic
from the figures given above. An analysis of sales by quarter is given in the Financial record
areas, Trizivirfor HIV treatment was launched in November.
(pages 134 to 137). The sales are presented on a retained product basis and exclude divested
products. Sales by market within Europe are adjusted for the effects of parallel trade.Operating and financial review and prospectsGlaxoSmithKline 49
Seven per cent of total sales are derived from the Asia Pacific area, Oral care
principally Australia, where sales growth was 17 per cent. The The acquisition of Block Drug added a number of significant brands
metered dose inhaler of Seretidewas launched in this market to the Oral care business namely Sensodyne, Polidentand Poligrip.
in May. Sales of Zybangrew after its successful launch in late 2000. Excluding Block Drug, Oral care sales grew three per cent reflecting
strong growth in Europe partly offset by strong competitive
Latin America reported eight per cent sales growth reflecting strong
pressures for Aquafreshin the US market.
growth in Mexico of 16 per cent. This area predominately
benefited from the Seretide/Serevent/Flixotide market, which grew
Nutritional healthcare
by 47 per cent. The HIV/AIDS and vaccines markets showed good
The Nutritional healthcare business grew seven per cent reflecting
return but anti-bacterials declined due to generic competition.
the strong performances of Lucozadeand Horlicks.
The Middle East and Africa area followed the trends of most other
markets with growth in the Seretide, Avandiaand HIV/AIDS Trading profit – business performance
markets. The vaccines area recorded growth of over 50 per cent
To illustrate GlaxoSmithKline business performance in 2001, the
and Zofran,in the Oncology area, drove growth to 72 per cent.
analysis below of trading profit and the subsequent discussion
In sub-Saharan and South Africa, the key drivers of growth were excludes merger items, integration and restructuring costs and the
anti-virals and vaccines. disposals of subsidiaries. Management believes that exclusion of
these non-recurring items provides a better comparison of business
Consumer Healthcare sales
performance for the periods presented. Accordingly this information
2001 2000
£m £m CER% is provided as a supplement to that contained in the consolidated
statement of profit and loss on pages 68 and 69 prepared in
OTC medicines 1,603 1,454 8
accordance with UKGAAP.
Analgesics 335 267 27
Dermatological 190 128 49
Gastro intestinal 342 318 6 2001 2000 Growth
£m % £m % CER%
Respiratory tract 164 171 (3)
Sales 20,489 100.0 18,079 100.0 11
Smoking control 337 357 (10)
Vitamins & naturals 158 140 10 Cost of sales (4,430) (21.6) (3,811) (21.1) (15)
Oral care 1,106 642 71 Selling, general
Nutritional healthcare 575 535 7 and administration (7,451) (36.4) (6,732) (37.2) (8)
Research and
Total sales continuing business 3,284 2,631 23
development (2,555) (12.5) (2,510) (13.9) 1
Divested products – 19 –
Trading profit 6,053 29.5 5,026 27.8 16
Total Consumer Healthcare sales 3,284 2,650 22
Cost of sales
The acquisition of the Block Drug Company, Inc. was completed in
Cost of sales increased as a percentage of sales as the loss of the
January 2001 adding £594 million to sales. This purchase added
high-margin products divested in December 2000, the inclusion of
the Sensodynetoothpaste brand, a range of denture care brands
lower margin Block Drug products and higher stock provisions were
worldwide and significant additions to its OTC medicines, largely
only partly offset by the benefits of merger and manufacturing
in the USA. The former Block Drug business was integrated into
restructuring savings.
GlaxoSmithKline in 2001.
As a result of this acquisition, GlaxoSmithKline has become the Selling, general and administration
number two company globally in oral care and has added Selling, general and administration (SG&A) costs benefited from
significant extra scale to its business particularly in North America, merger savings, principally in general and administration expenditure,
Japan and Europe. but the inclusion of Block Drug costs distorts the year on year
comparison. Excluding estimated Block Drug expenses, growth in
OTC medicines SG&A expenses would have been four per cent and SG&A expressed
Reported sales of OTC medicines grew eight per cent to as a percentage of sales would have been 1.3 per cent lower.
£1,603million primarily as a result of the acquisition of Block Drug.
Excluding Block Drug, OTC medicines declined two per cent Research and development
reflecting private label competition for smoking control in the Research and development expenditure was broadly level with last
US market and sluggish growth in the global OTC market. year as savings from the merger have been made. Expenditure on
research and development is planned to increase in the future as
In June, GlaxoSmithKline reached agreement with Taisho to
merger savings begin to be reinvested in this area.
establish a partnership to introduce its nicotine replacement
products into Japan.
Trading profit
Significant new product introduction in OTC medicines included Business performance trading profit growth was 16 per cent,
NiQuitin Lozenge, the most effective OTC product yet launched reflecting improved trading margins. The trading margin improved
tohelp smokers quit; Eumovate, a topical steroid – the first 1.7 per cent to 29.5 per cent as a result of cost savings from
GlaxoSmithKline switch from prescription to OTC, and two major merger integration, partly offset by the divestment of certain high
new extensions of Panadolanalgesic – a fast acting formula margin products required by regulatory authorities as a condition
marketed as ‘Actifast’ and a slow release product targeted at of the merger.
persistent pain introduced in Scandinavia as ‘Extend’.50 GlaxoSmithKline Operating and financial review and prospects
Profit before taxation – business performance Merger items, restructuring costs and disposal of businesses
The analysis and discussion below of profit before taxation relates The key items in 2001 are discussed below.
to business performance.
Merger
2001 2000 Costs arising from the integration of the Glaxo Wellcome and
Other operating income/(expense) £m £m
SmithKline Beecham businesses into a unified GlaxoSmithKline
Royalties and other income 34 43
business, referred to as merger integration costs, amounted in 2001
Other operating expense (126) (58)
to £1,069 million. The costs primarily include consultancy fees,
(92) (15) severance, asset write-offs and share option retention incentives.
Income from equity investments 129 289
37 274 Manufacturing and other restructuring
Costs of £147 million were incurred in implementing the previously
Other operating income was significantly lower in 2001 than in announced Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham plans for
2000 due to lower sales of equity investments, lower product restructuring of manufacturing and other activities. A further
disposals, and higher costs related to product withdrawals. £15million was charged in respect of post-merger restructuring
activities. The costs in 2001 include consultancy fees, severance
Profit on disposal of interest in associate and asset write-offs.
The Group sold 1.5 million shares in Quest Diagnostics, Inc. during
the year realising a gain of £96 million. As at 31st December 2001, Block Drug Company, Inc.
after a 2 for 1 share split by Quest after the share sale, GlaxoSmithKline acquired Block Drug in January 2001. The costs
GlaxoSmithKline held 22.1 million shares. incurred in acquiring and integrating this business were
£125million in 2001 comprising professional fees, severance and
Share of profits/(losses) of joint ventures and associated asset write offs.
undertakings
The share of profits of associates arises principally from the Group’s Disposal of businesses
holding inQuest Diagnostics, Inc. The loss on disposal of businesses in 2001 primarily arose on the
sale of Affymax. The charge includes a £299 million write-off of
2001 2000 goodwill which was previously eliminated against reserves.
Net interest payable £m £m
Interest payable (198) (317) Taxation 2001 2000
Investment income 129 158 £m £m
(69) (159) Business performance (1,647) (1,454)
Share of interest payable of associate (19) (23) Merger restructuring and disposal
of subsidiaries 320 (245)
(88) (182)
Total taxation (1,327) (1,699)
Net interest payable was lower due to a lower average level of net
debt in 2001 than in 2000 and to lower interest rates.
Business performance taxation
The charge for taxation on business performance profit amounting
Profit before taxation
to £1,647 million represents an effective tax rate of 26.7 per cent.
Other operating income/(expense), together with the disposal of
The tax rate benefits from lower rates of tax applicable to
part of the interest inanassociate, added £133 million to profit
manufacturing operations in Singapore, Puerto Rico and Ireland.
before taxation in 2001, compared to £418 million in 2000. This
reduction in one-time profits was planned to improve the overall Transfer pricing issues are inevitable for a global business such as
quality of the Group’s earnings. Taking account of the contribution GlaxoSmithKline. The integrated nature of the Group’s worldwide
from associates, comprising share of profit less share ofinterest, operations, involving significant investment in research and strategic
less theGroup’s own net interest payable, business performance manufacture at a limited number of locations, with consequential
profit before tax was £6,169million, compared to £5,327 million cross-border supply routes into numerous end-markets, gives rise to
in 2000, an increase of 12per cent. complexity and delay in negotiations with revenue authorities as to
the profits on which individual Group companies are liable to tax.
Disagreements with, and between, revenue authorities as to the price
at which goods should be transferred between Group companies in
different tax jurisdictions can produce conflicting claims from revenue
authorities as to the profits that fall to be taxed in individual
territories. Resolution of such issues is a continuing fact-of-life for
GlaxoSmithKline.Operating and financial review and prospectsGlaxoSmithKline 51
In the USA for a number of years GlaxoSmithKline has had significant Critical accounting policies
open issues relating to transfer pricing. These issues affect all years
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with
from 1989 to the present and concern a number of products,
UKgenerally accepted accounting principles, following the accounting
although the most significant relates to the success of Zantacin
policies as approved by the Board and described in Note 2 to the
respect of which the claims of the US Internal Revenue Service (IRS)
Financial statements. Management are required to make estimates
substantially exceed the Group’s estimation of its taxation liabilities.
and assumptions that affect the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue
The IRS claims continue to be the subject of discussions between the
and expenses reported in the financial statements. Actual amounts
US and UK tax authorities under the competent authority provisions
and results could differ from those estimates. The following are
of the double tax convention between the two countries. Within
considered to be the critical accounting policies adopted.
these discussions there is a wide variation between the views of the
US and UK tax authorities and, exceptionally, they may be unable to
Legal and other disputes
settle the dispute. In the event of the UK and US tax authorities not
GlaxoSmithKline provides for anticipated settlement costs and
reaching agreement the matter may have to be resolved by litigation.
associated expenses arising from legal and other disputes against the
GlaxoSmithKline uses the best advice in determining its transfer Group where a reasonable estimate can be made of the likely
pricing methodology and in seeking to manage transfer pricing issues outcome of the dispute. Where it is not possible to make a reasonable
to a satisfactory conclusion and, on the basis of external professional estimate, no provision is made.
advice, continues to believe that it has made adequate provision for
Although the outcome of claims, legal proceedings and other matters
the liabilities likely to arise from open assessments.
in which GlaxoSmithKline is involved cannot be predicted with any
certainty, the Directors, having taken appropriate legal advice, do not
Merger and restructuring
expect the Group’s ultimate liability for such matters, after taking into
The credit for taxation on merger and restructuring items
account provisions, tax benefits and insurance, to have a material
amounting to £320 million reflects the estimated actual tax
adverse effect on its financial condition, results of its operations or
rateapplicable to the transactions in the territories in which
cash flows.
theyarise.
Earnings 2001 2000 Intangible assets
Where intangible assets are acquired by GlaxoSmithKline from third
Earnings (£m) 3,059 4,154
parties the costs of acquisition are capitalised. Licences to compounds
Earnings per share 50.4p 68.5p
in development are amortised over their estimated useful lives, but
Earnings per ADS $1.45 $2.08
not exceeding 15 years. Estimated useful lives are reviewed annually
Adjusted earnings (£m) 4,391 3,697 and impairment reviews are undertaken if events occur which call into
Adjusted earnings per share 72.4p 61.0p question the carrying values of the assets.
Adjusted earnings per ADS $2.09 $1.85 Brands acquired with businesses are capitalised independently where
Weighted average number of shares (millions) 6,064 6,065 they are separable and have a long term value to the Group. Brands
are amortised over their estimated useful lives, not exceeding 20
Adjusted earnings and adjusted earnings per share for years, except where the end of the useful economic life cannot be
GlaxoSmithKline arepresented above in order to illustrate business foreseen. Where brands are not amortised, they are subject to annual
performance which is the primary measure used by management, impairment reviews.
as discussed earlier.
Future events could cause the values of these intangible assets to be
Adjusted earnings increased by 14 per cent CER. Adjusted earnings significantly impaired and this would have an adverse effect on the
per share also increased by 14 per cent CER. The weighted average future results of the Group.
number of shares, for the purposes of earnings per share,
decreased slightly due topurchases of shares by the Employee Impairment of fixed assets
Share Ownership Trust to satisfy future exercises of share options The carrying values of fixed assets subject to amortisation are
and shares purchased for cancellation offset by exercise of share reviewed for impairment when there is an indication that the values
options during the year. of the assets might be impaired. Impairment is determined by the
reference to the higher of net realisable value and value in use, which
is measured by reference to discounted cash flows.
Future events could cause the assumptions used in these impairment
reviews to change with a consequent adverse effect on the future
results of the Group.52 GlaxoSmithKline Operating and financial review and prospects
Financial position and resources
Cash flow Group purchases of its own shares in the market for cancellation
amounted to £1,274 million.
A summary of Group cash flow is set out below:
Preference shares, classified as non-equity minority interest,
2001 2000
£m £m amounting to £457 million, were redeemed using existing Group
resources in the first quarter of 2001.
Total operating cash flow 6,507 5,441
Dividends from joint ventures – 1 The major products divested to obtain regulatory approval for the
Net interest, minority and merger generated proceeds of £1,529 million in December 2000.
preference share dividends (191) (322)
In total, net debt increased by nearly £1.5 billion to £2.1 billion.
Tax payments (1,717) (1,240)
Free cash flow 4,599 3,880
Future cash flow
Net capital expenditure (1,240) (1,057)
The Group expects that future operating cash flow will be sufficient
Net cash from operations 3,359 2,823 to fund its operating and debt service costs, to satisfy normal levels
Dividends on shares (2,325) (2,028) of capital expenditure, to meet obligations under existing licensing
Business acquisitions (747) (25) agreements and to meet other routine commitments including
Business disposals 66 (62) tax and dividends subject to the risk factors discussed on pages 56
Sale less purchase of equity investments 92 227 and 57.
Sale less purchase of interest in associates 80 153
In 2002 and subsequent years the Group expects further cash
Purchase of own shares for share options (795) (1,232)
outflows from integrating the operations of Glaxo Wellcome and
Use of own shares on exercise of share options 194 206
SmithKline Beecham into a unified GlaxoSmithKline business, as
Shares issued on exercise of share options 144 185
well as further cash outflows from the continued implementation
Purchase of shares for cancellation (1,274) –
of manufacturing restructuring plans.
Redemption of preference shares issued
by a subsidiary (457) – The Group plans to complete the £4 billion share buy-back
Product divestments (30) 1,529 programme announced in October 2001. The exact amount and
Other movements including exchange 203 (30) timing of such purchases will depend on market conditions, and
(Increase)/reduction in net debt (1,490) 1,746 will be funded from the Group’s existing resources. As at 6th March
2002 a further 8,335,000 shares had been purchased and cancelled
The net cash inflow from total operating activities was at a cost of £145 million.
£6,507million, an increase of £1,066 million over 2000.
The Group may from time to time have additional demands for
After merger and restructuring items of £973 million, net interest finance, such as for acquisitions. The Group has access to other
payments, minority and preference share dividends and tax sources of liquidity from banks and other financial institutions, in
payments, free cash flow, representing cash flow before addition to the cash flow from operations, forsuch needs.
discretionary spending, amounted to £4,599 million, an increase
of £719 million over 2000. Financial position
Capital expenditure on tangible and intangible fixed assets A summarised, re-classified presentation of the Group balance sheet
amounted to £1,311 million in 2001 (2000 – £1,103 million). is set out below:
Disposals realised £71 million (2000 – £46 million).
2001 2000
£m £m
The Group acquired Block Drug for a cash consideration of
£843 million, included within Business acquisitions, and disposed Goodwill 174 170
of part of its interest in Quest Diagnostics, Inc. for the sum of Intangible fixed assets 1,673 966
£124 million. Tangible fixed assets 6,845 6,642
Investments 477 388
A total of £172 million (2000 – £380 million) was realised from Working capital 4,958 4,801
sales, less purchases, of investments in equity shares. Other debtors and creditors (2,708) (1,617)
On 23rd October 2001 GlaxoSmithKline announced plans to invest Provisions (1,810) (1,657)
up to £4 billion buying its shares on the market. The programme Taxation (1,672) (2,101)
covers purchases by the company’s Employee Share Ownership Deferred taxation 871 889
Trusts (ESOTs) relating to share option grants and other share Net operating assets 8,808 8,481
based incentives and also covers purchases by the company of Own shares 2,936 2,327
shares for cancellation. Under this programme over £2 billion was Dividends proposed (1,264) (1,242)
spent in 2001. Net debt (2,101) (611)
The Group funded the purchase by the ESOTs of shares of Net assets 8,379 8,955
GlaxoSmithKline plc to satisfy future exercises of options and
Shareholders’ funds 7,517 7,711
awards under employee share incentive schemes, at a total cost
Minority interests 862 1,244
of £795 million (2000 – £1,232 million). Atotal of £338 million
(2000 – £391 million) was received on employees’ exercise of Financing of net assets 8,379 8,955
share options: exercises satisfied from shares previously purchased
by the ESOTs yielded £194 million (2000 – £206 million); exercises
satisfied from the issue of new shares yielded £144 million
(2000 – £185 million).Operating and financial review and prospectsGlaxoSmithKline 53
The book value of net assets decreased from £8,955 million at Net debt increased in 2001 to £2,101 million primarily due to the
31stDecember 2000 to £8,379 million at 31st December 2001, purchase of Block Drug for a cash consideration of £843 million,
a decrease of £576 million. This reflects the redemption of restructuring and merger costs of £973 million and the purchase of
£457 million of the non-equity minority interest, the purchase and shares by the company for cancellation and by the ESOTs for share
cancellation of shares under the share buy-back programme and option commitments, totalling £2,069 million.
the effect on net assets of exchange rate movements, partly offset
by retained profits of £703 million, after providing for the 2001 Shareholders’ funds
dividends. A summary of the movements in equity shareholders’ funds is set
out below.
Intangible fixed assets 2001 2000
Intangible fixed assets at 31st December 2001 were £1,673 million £m £m
(31st December 2000 – £966 million). These included the fair value At beginning of year 7,711 5,464
of brands acquired of £608 million on the acquisition of Block Drug. Profit for the year 3,059 4,154
The remaining increase in intangible assets reflects acquisition of Dividends (2,356) (2,097)
licences, patents, know-how and marketing rights partially offset by Shares issued on exercise of share options 144 185
amortisation expense and impairment losses. Shares issued and cancelled (1,274) –
Exchange movements on overseas net assets (123) 3
Investments Goodwill written back 356 2
GlaxoSmithKline had investments at 31st December 2001 with a At end of year 7,517 7,711
carrying value of £477 million (31st December 2000 – £388 million).
The investments are mainly in equity shares where the holding Equity shareholders’ funds decreased from £7,711 million at
derives directly from the Group’s business: either arising from a 31st December 2000 to £7,517 million at 31st December 2001.
business divestment, or in connection with a research collaboration, This is primarily due to retained profits, shares purchased for
or as access to biotechnology developments of potential interest to cancellation and the write back from reserves of goodwill.
GlaxoSmithKline. Equity investments are included as current assets
when regarded as available for sale. Otherwise they are included Commitments and contingent liabilities
as fixed assets. The market value of the investments at 31st Financial commitments are summarised in Note 26 to the Financial
December 2001was approximately £1.8 billion (31st December statements, ‘Commitments’. Other contingent liabilities and
2000 – £2.2billion), but the market values can be volatile. obligations in respect of short and long term debt are set out in
Note 24, ‘Contingent liabilities’ and Note 25, ‘Net debt’.
Own shares
At 31st December 2001 the ESOTs held 187.4 million shares of Payment policies
the company against option commitments under employee share
incentive plans at that date over 342.5 million shares, of which Group companies are responsible for monitoring and managing
150.7 million were exercisable. their working capital. The terms of sales collections and supplier
payments will reflect local commercial practice.
Other debtors and creditors
The increase in net creditors in the year reflects increased In the UK, the company and each of its UK subsidiaries operate
accruals for legal disputes, the in-licensing of technologies and procedures to ensure that suppliers are paid on time. In particular,
staff compensation. the UK companies seek:
• to settle terms of payment with suppliers when agreeing the
Provisions terms of the transaction
The Group carried provisions of £1,810 million at 31st December • to ensure that suppliers are made aware of the agreed terms
2001 in respect of estimated future liabilities, of which some ofpayment
£1,022million related to pensions and other post-retirement • to abide by the terms of payment.
benefits for employees. Provision has been made for legal and
other disputes, indemnified disposal liabilities and the costs of The procedures include arrangements for accelerated payment of
manufacturing restructuring and merger integration to the extent small suppliers.
that at the balance sheet date an actual or constructive obligation
existed. In the case of merger integration and manufacturing Payment performance
restructuring the majority of the remaining costs are expected to At 31st December 2001, the average number of days’ purchases
be recognised by the end of 2004. represented by trade and fixed asset creditors of the company was
nil days (2000 – nil days) and in respect of the company and its UK
Net debt subsidiaries in aggregate was 24 days (2000 – 22 days). The
Group net debt at 31st December comprised: company has seen a deterioration in payment performance as a
result of the integration of systems during 2001, but expects this
2001 2000
£m £m to improve in 2002.
Cash and liquid investments 2,131 3,421
Borrowings – repayable within one year (2,124) (2,281)
Borrowings – repayable after one year (2,108) (1,751)
Net debt (2,101) (611)54 GlaxoSmithKline Operating and financial review and prospects
Treasury policies Liquid assets surplus to the immediate operating requirements of
Group companies are invested and managed centrally by Corporate
GlaxoSmithKline plc is a UK-based business, reporting in sterling
Treasury. Requirements of Group companies for operating finance
and paying dividends out of sterling profits.
are met whenever possible from central resources.
The role of Corporate Treasury in GlaxoSmithKline is to manageand
External borrowings, mainly managed centrally by Corporate
monitor the Group’s external and internal funding requirementsand
Treasury, comprise a portfolio of long and medium-term instruments
financial risks in support of Group corporate objectives. Treasury
and short-term finance.
activities are governed by policies and procedures approved by the
Board and monitored by a Treasury Management group. GlaxoSmithKline does not hold or issue derivative financial
GlaxoSmithKline maintains treasury control systems and procedures instruments for trading purposes and the Group’s Treasury policies
to monitor foreign exchange, interest rate, liquidity, credit and other specifically prohibit such activity. All transactions in financial
financial risks. instruments are undertaken to manage the risks arising from
underlying business activities, not for speculation.
Liquidity
The Group operates globally, primarily through subsidiary companies Funding, maturity and counterparty risk
established in the markets in which the Group trades. Due to the The Group invests centrally managed liquid assets primarily in
nature of the Group’s business, with patent protection on many Government bonds and short-term corporate debt instruments
ofthe products in the Group’s portfolio, the Group’s products with a minimum short-term credit rating of A-1/P-1 from Standard
compete largely on product efficacy rather than on price. Selling and Poor’s and Moody’s respectively.
margins are sufficient to cover normal operating costs and the
The Group manages its net borrowing requirement through a
Group’s operating subsidiaries are substantially cash generative.
portfolio of long and medium-term borrowings, including bonds,
Operating cash flow is used to fund investment in the research and together with short-term finance under the US$ commercial paper
development of new products as well as routine outflows of capital programme. The Group’s medium-term borrowings mature at dates
expenditure, tax, dividends and repayment of maturing debt. The between 2002 and 2006 and the long-dated sterling bond matures
Group will from time to time have additional demands for finance, in 2033.
such as for share purchases and acquisitions.
GlaxoSmithKline’s long-term debt rating is AA from Standard and
In December 2001, a £1 billion fixed rate 32 year bond was Poor’s and Aa2 from Moody’s. The agencies’ short-term rating for
issued under a new £5 billion European Medium Term paper issued under the Group’s commercial paper programme is
programme. In addition, a US$10billion Commercial Paper A1+ and P1 respectively.
programme was signed in December 2001. These programmes
replace the pre-merger funding programmes and give flexibility Interest rate risk management
to the Group’s funding options. GlaxoSmithKline’s policy on interest rate risk management requires
that the amount of net borrowings at fixed rates increases with the
GlaxoSmithKline operates at low levels of net debt. In addition
ratio of forecast net interest payable to trading profit.
tothe strong positive cash flow from normal trading activities,
additional liquidity is readily available via the US$ Commercial Sensitivity analysis considers the sensitivity of the Group’s net debt
Paperprogramme backed by committed lines of credit. to hypothetical changes in market rates and assumes that all other
variables remain constant. Based on the composition of net debt at
Treasury operations 31st December 2001 a one per cent increase or decrease in average
The objective of treasury activity is to manage the post-tax net interest rates would result in a negligible change in the Group’s
cost/income of financial operations to the benefit of Group annual interest expense.
earnings. Corporate Treasury does not operate as a profit centre.
Foreign exchange risk management
GlaxoSmithKline uses a variety of financial instruments, including
In GlaxoSmithKline, foreign currency transaction exposure arising on
derivatives, to finance its operations and to manage market risks
normal trade flows both in respect of external and intra-Group
from those operations.
trade is not hedged. GlaxoSmithKline’s policy is to minimise the
Financial instruments comprise cash and liquid resources, exposure of overseas operating subsidiaries to transaction risk
borrowings and spot foreign exchange contracts. bymatching local currency income with local currency costs.
Forthispurpose, intra-Group trading transactions are matched
GlaxoSmithKline uses a number of derivative financial instruments
centrally and intra-Group payment terms are managed to reduce
to manage the market risks from Treasury operations. Derivative
risk. Exceptional foreign currency cash flows are hedged selectively
instruments, principally comprising forward foreign currency
under the management of Corporate Treasury.
contracts, interest rate and currency swaps, are used by Corporate
Treasury to swap borrowings and liquid assets into the currencies Based on the composition of net debt at 31st December 2001 a
required for Group purposes and to manage exposure to market 10per cent appreciation in sterling against major currencies would
risks from changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates. result in a reduction in the Group’s net debt of approximately
£100 million. A10 per cent weakening in sterling against major
GlaxoSmithKline balances the use of borrowings and liquid assets
currencies would result in an increase in the Group’s net debt of
having regard to: the cash flow from operating activities and
approximately £120 million.
thecurrencies in which it is earned; the tax cost of intra-group
distributions; the currencies in which business assets are
denominated; and the post-tax cost of borrowings compared
tothepost-tax return on liquid assets.Operating and financial review and prospects GlaxoSmithKline 55
A high proportion of Group borrowings, including the commercial The company obtained shareholder approval, at the 2001 Annual
paper programme, is in US dollars, to benefit from the liquidity of General Meeting, to make market purchases of its own shares.
US$ denominated capital markets. Certain of these and other On 23rd October 2001, GlaxoSmithKline announced a share
borrowings are swapped into other currencies as required for Group repurchase programme and ESOT share purchase programme of
purposes. The Group seeks to denominate borrowings in the £4billion. From the announcement date to 31st December, 2001,
currencies of its principal overseas assets. Borrowings denominated GlaxoSmithKline purchased 70.6 million shares for cancellation, at
in, or swapped into, foreign currencies which match investments in a total cost of £1,274 million.
overseas Group assets are treated as a hedge against the relevant
net assets. European Monetary Union
GlaxoSmithKline’s European companies made preparations for the
Derivative financial instruments and hedging policy
full introduction of the single currency on 1st January 2002 within
The Group uses a limited number of currency swaps and interest
the 12 countries in Europe directly affected. These preparations
rate swaps to redenominate external borrowings intothe currencies
included the conversion of information systems, data and financial
and interest rate coupon required for Group purposes. The duration
processes as well as the training of staff. Local implementation
of these swaps matches the duration of theprincipal instruments.
teams were supported by a central co-ordination team. Experience
The Group manages centrally the short-term cash surpluses or since the introduction of the Euro at the beginning of 2002 has
borrowing requirements of subsidiary companies and uses forward shown that conversions of the information, systems, data and
contracts to hedge future repayments back into originating financial processes have been successful.
currency. The contracts are all of less than a year’s duration.
In the short-term the company does not expect the costs or
Derivative instruments are accounted for as hedges of the relevant benefits from the introduction of the Euro to have a material effect
assets or liabilities. on the Group’s trading performance.
Equity risk management
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments to manage
equity risk. Equity investments classified as current assets are
available for sale and the Group manages disposals to meet overall
business requirements as they arise.
Financial assets and liabilities
An analysis of net debt is given in Note 25 to the Financial
statements. An analysis of financial assets and liabilities at carrying
value and fair value and a reconciliation to net debt are given
inNote 32, together with a discussion of derivative financial
instruments and quantitative disclosures about market riskin
accordance with the requirements of Financial Reporting Standard 13.
Group net debt increased nearly £1.5 billion between 31st
December 2000 and 31st December 2001. This was primarily
due to the impact of the acquisition of Block Drug, merger and
restructuring costs, the Group’s purchase of its own shares in
the market and the redemption of preference shares, classified
as non-equity minority interest. The Group continues to benefit
from strong positive cash flow.
The Group’s financial assets and liabilities at 31st December 2001
are representative of the treasury policies and strategies of
GlaxoSmithKline, applied consistently during the year. There were
no significant changes in such policies throughout the year.
ESOT share purchases and shares purchased for cancellation
In 2001 the Group funded market purchases by Employee Share
Ownership Trusts of shares in GlaxoSmithKline plc amounting to
£795 million (2000 - £1,232 million). The shares are held by the
Employee Share Ownership Trusts to satisfy future exercises of
options and awards under the Group share option and award
schemes. A proportion of the purchases are in respect of options
where the rules of the scheme require the company to satisfy
exercises through market purchases rather than the issue of new
shares.
The purchases represent an opportunity to acquire shares to satisfy
future exercises at prices below the exercise price. The purchases
are matched to options granted and diminish the dilutive effect of
new share issues on shareholders' capital and earnings.56 GlaxoSmithKline Operating and financial review and prospects
Outlook and risk factors
Outlook Generic drug manufacturers are seeking to market generic versions
of a number of the Group’s most important products, including
Improving pharmaceutical sales growth of existing products –
Augmentin, Paxiland Wellbutrin, prior to the expiration of the
seven per cent CER in 1999, 11 per cent in 2000 and 12 per
Group’s patents, and may do so for other products in the future.
cent in 2001 – is a key driver of GlaxoSmithKline’s current
These efforts may involve challenges to the validity of a patent or
business performance. In 2002, the company expects to launch
the assertion that the alternative compounds do not infringe the
Advair forCOPD, Infanrix PeNta,dutasteride and vardenafil.
Group’s patents. If the Group is not successful in maintaining
Merger savings of over £400 million were achieved in 2001 exclusive rights to market one or more of its major products,
together with manufacturing restructuring savings in excess of particularly in the USA where the Group has its highest margins
£350 million. The Group expects to deliver total annual merger and most sales of any country, during the patent protection period,
and manufacturing restructuring savings, before R&D the Group’s revenues and margins would be adversely affected.
reinvestment, of £1.8 billion by 2003. These savings are See Note 30 to the Financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’ for a
measured against the projected levels of expenditure in 2003 discussion of patent-related proceedings in which the Group is
forecast by Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham involved.
immediately prior to the merger.
In some of the countries in which the Group operates, patent
GlaxoSmithKline expects to deliver business performance earnings protection may be significantly weaker than in the USA or the
per share growth in the mid-teens in 2002 and low-teens or European Union. In addition, in an effort to control public health
better in 2003. This guidance assumes GlaxoSmithKline crises, some developing countries, such as South Africa and Brazil,
successfully defends its intellectual property surrounding have recently announced plans for substantial reductions in the
Augmentinand Paxilin the USA. scope of patent protection for pharmaceutical products. In
particular, these countries could facilitate competition within their
GlaxoSmithKline is engaged in legal proceedings regarding validity
markets from generic manufacturers who would otherwise be
and infringement of the Group’s patents relating to Augmentinand
unable to introduce competing products for a number of years.
Paxil/Seroxat. These are discussed in the risk factors below and in
Any loss of patent protection is likely to affect adversely the Group’s
Note 30 to the Financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’.
operating results.
The Group has net debt of £2.1 billion, which is low relative to its
Pharmaceutical product prices are subject to controls or pressures
market capitalisation and this positions it to take advantage of any
in many markets. Some governments intervene directly in setting
opportunities that might arise to build the business.
prices. In addition, in some markets major purchasers of
There are risks and uncertainties inherent in the business. These pharmaceutical products (whether governmental agencies or
are discussed in ‘Risk factors’ below. private health care providers) have the economic power to exert
substantial pressure on prices. The Group cannot predict whether
Risk factors existing controls will increase or new controls will be introduced
that will reduce the Group’s margins or affect adversely its ability
There are risks and uncertainties relevant to the Group’s business.
to introduce new products profitably.
The factors listed below are those that the Group thinks could
cause the Group’s actual results to differ materially from expected For example, in the USA, where the Group has its highest margins
and historical results. Other factors besides those listed here could and most sales of any country, pricing pressures could significantly
also adversely affect the Group. increase if various proposals under consideration to reform
Medicare, or for other federal or state programmes to control the
The Group operates in highly competitive businesses. In the
cost of pharmaceuticals, are adopted. If the Medicare programme
pharmaceuticals business, it faces competition both from
were to provide outpatient pharmaceutical coverage for its
proprietary products of large international manufacturers and
beneficiaries, the US government, through its enormous purchasing
producers of generic pharmaceuticals. Significant product
power under the programme, could demand discounts that may
innovations, technical advances or the intensification of price
implicitly create price controls on prescription drugs. Additionally,
competition by competitors could adversely affect the Group’s
a number of states have proposed or implemented various schemes
operating results. Continued consolidation in the pharmaceutical
to control prices for their own senior citizens’ drug programmes,
industry could adversely affect the Group’s competitive position,
including importation from other countries and bulk purchasing
while continued consolidation among the Group’s customers may
of drugs. The growth in the number of patients covered through
increase pricing pressures.
large managed care institutions in the USA, which would be likely
In particular, the Group faces intense competition from to increase with Medicare reform, also increases pricing pressures
manufacturers of generic pharmaceutical products in all of its on the Group’s products. These trends may adversely affect the
major markets. Generic products often enter the market upon Group’s revenues and margins from sales in the USA.
expiration of patents or data exclusivity periods for the Group’s
The Group must comply with a broad range of regulatory controls
products. Introduction of generic products typically leads to a
on the testing, approval, manufacturing and marketing of many
dramatic loss of sales and reduces the Group’s revenues and
of its pharmaceutical and consumer healthcare products. In some
margins for its proprietary products. The expiration dates for
countries, including the USA and those of the European Union,
patents for the Group’s major products are set out under
regulatory controls have become increasingly demanding, increasing
‘Description of Business - Patents’ on page 22.
not only the cost of product development but also the time
required to reach the market and the uncertainty of successfully
doing so. The Group expects that this trend will continue and will
expand to other countries.Operating and financial review and prospectsGlaxoSmithKline 57
Stricter regulatory controls also heighten the risk of withdrawal by The Group has no control over changes in inflation and interest
regulators of an approval previously granted, which would reduce rates, foreign currency exchange rates and controls or other
revenues and can result in product recalls and product liability economic factors affecting its businesses or the possibility of
lawsuits. In addition, in some cases the Group may voluntarily political unrest, legal and regulatory changes or nationalisation in
cease marketing a product or face declining sales based on jurisdictions in which the Group operates. These factors could
concerns about efficacy or safety, whether or not scientifically materially affect the Group’s future results of operations.
justified, even in the absence of regulatory action.
The effective tax rate on the Group’s earnings benefits from the
Continued development of commercially viable new products is fact that a portion of its earnings is taxed at more favourable rates
critical to the Group’s ability to replace sales of older products that in some jurisdictions outside the United Kingdom. Changes in tax
decline upon expiration of exclusive rights, and to increase overall laws or in their application with respect to matters, such as transfer
sales. Developing new products is a costly, lengthy and uncertain pricing (see Note 12 to the Financial statements, ‘Taxation’), that
process. A new product candidate can fail at any stage of the relate to the portion of the Group’s earnings taxed at more
process, and one or more late-stage product candidates could fail favourable rates could increase the Group’s effective tax rate
to receive regulatory approval. New product candidates may appear and adversely affect its net earnings.
promising in development but, after significant investment, fail
New or revised accounting standards and rules promulgated from
to reach the market or have only limited commercial success as a
time to time by UK, US or International accounting standard-setting
result of efficacy or safety concerns, inability to obtain necessary
boards could have a material adverse impact on the Group’s
regulatory approvals, difficulty or excessive costs to manufacture
reported financial results.
or infringement of patents or other intellectual property rights
of others.
The Group is currently a defendant in a number of lawsuits,
including class actions, that involve substantial claims for damages
and governmental investigations. The lawsuits include product
liability claims related to the Group’s pharmaceutical products and
antitrust actions. A number of these lawsuits and class actions
include claims for punitive damages. Unfavourable resolution of
these and similar future proceedings may be material to the Group’s
results of operations and cash flows. The Group may also make
material provisions related to legal proceedings, which would
reduce its earnings. Recent insurance loss experience, including
pharmaceutical product liability exposures, has increased the cost
of insurance coverage for the Group. In order to contain insurance
costs in 2001 the Group has adjusted its coverage profile, accepting
a greater degree of self-insurance. See Note 30 to the Financial
statements, ‘Legal proceedings’ for a discussion of proceedings
in which the Group is currently involved.
The environmental laws of various jurisdictions impose actual
and potential obligations on the Group to remediate contaminated
sites. The Group has also been identified as a potentially
responsible party under the US Comprehensive Environmental
Response Compensation and Liability Act at a number of sites for
remediation costs relating to the Group’s use or ownership of such
sites. See Note 30 to the Financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’
for a discussion of environmental-related proceedings in which
the Group is involved.
The Group currently has six products with over £700 million
($1billion) in annual global sales. Among these products are
Augmentin, Paxil/Seroxatand Wellbutrin, in which the Group is
currently defending its intellectual property rights in the USA. If
these or any of the Group’s other major products were to become
subject to a problem such as loss of patent protection, unexpected
side effects, regulatory proceedings, publicity affecting doctor or
patient confidence or pressure from competitive products, or if a
new, more effective treatment should be introduced, the impact
on the Group’s revenues and operating results could be significant.
The Group conducts a substantial portion of its operations outside
the United Kingdom. Fluctuations in exchange rates between the
sterling and other currencies, especially the US dollar and the Euro,
materially affect the Group’s revenues and operating results.58 GlaxoSmithKline Operating and financial review and prospects
2000 Year
In accordance with USSEC disclosure requirements, the following In the rhinitis sector, growth of Flixonase/Flonasewas similarly offset
discussion compares results for the year to 31st December 2000 by decline in the older product, Beconase. Overall, the Group’s
with the results for the year to 31st December 1999 products in this sector grew by 12 per cent, supported by DTC
advertising in the USA.
Exchange
Anti-bacterials
On average during 2000 sterling exchange rates were weaker
Sales of anti-bacterial products increased by two per cent, with
against the US dollar and the Yen and stronger against European
growth in Augmentinoffset by flat sales of Zinnat/Ceftinand
currencies than in 1999. In aggregate, currency movements had a
Amoxiland a decrease in Fortum.
net favourable effect on sterling results in 2000 compared to 1999
of three per cent in respect of sales and two per cent in respect of With sales reaching £1.2 billion, Augmentincontinued to perform
business performance earnings per share. strongly. In the USA sales grew 13 per cent, with a market share
of nearly a quarter. Solid growth was achieved in Latin America and
Pharmaceutical sales South East Asia. In Europe sales were affected by generic
competition.
GlaxoSmithKline pharmaceutical sales in 2000 amounted to
£15,429 million, compared to £13,618 million in 1999, an increase Zinnat/Ceftindeclined by seven per cent in its largest market, the
of ten per cent. Excluding the sales of divested products (products USA, but this was offset by growth in the emerging markets of the
divested in 2000 to fulfil regulatory conditions for approval of the Middle East, Africa, Latin America and Asia Pacific.
Glaxo Wellcome/SmithKline Beecham merger), sales growth of the
continuing business was 11 per cent. The growth was substantially Anti-virals
all volume increase, with only a minor net increase from price. Growth in anti-viral sales of 14 per cent reflected strong growth in
the HIV franchise, where the Group markets a range of reverse
Pharmaceutical sales by therapeutic area transcriptase inhibitors (RTIs) and a recently launched protease
inhibitor, Agenerase; steady growth in sales of herpes products, and
Central nervous system
continued uptake of new products against other viral diseases.
In the anti-depressant sector sales of £2 billion were achieved, with
strong growth of Seroxat/Paxiland Wellbutrincontributing to Sales of RTIs increased by 12 per cent. Combiviragain grew
growth of 17 per cent. In the important US market, Paxilwas strongly, reflecting conversion of patients from its constituent single
supported by a successful direct-to-consumer (DTC) campaign products, Epivirand Retrovir. In aggregate the three products
and promotional efforts also enabled Wellbutrinto increase its achieved real growth of five per cent.
market share. Both products benefited from overall growth in
The Group’s two herpes treatments, the newer Valtrexand the
the US anti-depressant market.
older Zovirax, grew at a combined rate of five per cent. Valtrex
The migraine portfolio of Imigran/Imitrexand Naramig/Amerge continued to protect the Group’s franchise in this area, with strong
grew by five per cent. This reflected a return to growth in the USA, increases in all regions and a successful launch in Japan in August.
which accounted for three quarters of sales, where DTC marketing
Zeffix, for chronic hepatitis B, achieved sales of £70 million. First
campaigns and migraine awareness programmes were instrumental
launched in the Asia Pacific area, it performed strongly in the
in increasing sales. In Europe sales were stable, with strong growth
Chinese and South Korean markets.
in France offsetting declines in other markets.
Relenza, the new influenza treatment, doubled its sales to
Sales of Lamictal, the epilepsy treatment, grew strongly worldwide
£32million and, following launch in Japan in December, is now
and particularly in the USA where greater market penetration was
available in most major markets.
achieved in an expanding market. Requip, for the treatment of
Parkinson’s disease increased sales by 20 per cent. In the smoking
Metabolic and gastro-intestinal
cessation market, Zyban’s growth of 54 per cent reflected its rollout
Avandia, GlaxoSmithKline’s new treatment for Type 2 diabetes,
into European markets following European Union approval in April
achieved sales approaching half a billion pounds, the majority in the
2000. Initial sales were particularly strong in the UK and Germany.
USA, where it was first launched in 1999. In April 2000 the US FDA
approved Avandiain combination with a sulphonylurea, having
Respiratory
previously approved it both as a monotherapy and in combination
Flixotide/Floventsales increased by 29 per cent, notably in the USA
with metformin. In August 2000 Avandiareceived a positive
where DTC promotion and an expanding market led to a 57 per
recommendation in the UK from the National Institute for Clinical
cent increase in sales. In Europe, where the Group’s new
Excellence (NICE).
combination product, Seretide, was launched in most markets,
sales of Flixotidewere maintained despite Seretide’s success. Zantaccontinued to decline in the face of competition from generic
Sereventgrew by eight per cent. Again growth was particularly products and alternative anti-ulcerant treatments. The rate of
strong in the US market. decline slowed to 11 per cent in 2000. Zantac’s largest market is
now Japan, where sales remained stable.
Seretide, the new combination of Flixotideand Sereventgenerated
sales of over £200 million in 2000. Significant new markets in 2000 Lotronex, a treatment for irritable bowel syndrome, was launched
included Spain, Italy and Australia. In the UK and Germany, where in the USA in March 2000 and generated sales of £36 million
Seretidehad been available for over a year, it continued to make before being withdrawn in November 2000 following discussions
strong gains in market share. with the US FDA over the interpretation of data relating to
gastro-intestinal side effects. The company disagreed with the
In total, anti-asthma/COPD sales grew by 16 per cent. This reflected
FDA’s assessment of the safety profile of Lotronex, but agreed to
the strong performance of Flixotide, Sereventand Seretide, offset
withdraw it from the US market and has also withdrawn all other
by declining sales of the older asthma products, Ventolinand
regulatory submissions worldwide.
Becotide, as patients converted to newer products.Operating and financial review and prospectsGlaxoSmithKline 59
Pharmaceutical sales by therapeutic area 2000
Total USA Europe RoW
Therapeutic area/ % of 2000 1999 % CER* 2000 % CER 2000 % CER 2000 % CER
major products total 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 £m £m growth £m growth £m growth £m growth
CNS 21 3,279 2,720 16 2,307 15 678 16 294 28
Depression 2,002 1,636 17 1,495 18 334 11 173 31
Seroxat/Paxil 1,550 1,283 17 1,057 18 334 11 159 29
Wellbutrin 452 353 19 438 19 – – 14 58
Migraine 782 716 5 588 5 152 – 42 11
Imigran/Imitrex 705 653 3 542 4 127 (2) 36 6
Naramig/Amerge 77 63 20 46 20 25 15 6 51
Lamictal 289 223 28 138 34 116 20 35 35
Requip 58 49 20 26 19 30 20 2 26
Zyban 115 72 54 60 1 34 >100 21 23
Respiratory 18 2,789 2,382 15 1,122 26 1,117 9 550 10
Flixotide/Flovent 880 666 29 414 57 305 2 161 49
Serevent 622 569 8 330 24 253 (6) 39 14
Seretide 208 48 >100 – – 179 >100 29 >100
Flixonase/Flonase 408 333 16 294 18 45 10 69 14
Ventolin 343 368 (7) 31 (21) 149 (5) 163 (6)
Becotide 205 277 (25) 4 (82) 152 (12) 49 (40)
Anti-bacterials 16 2,472 2,383 2 1,142 7 705 (4) 625 1
Augmentin 1,219 1,110 8 725 13 320 (3) 174 9
Zinnat/Ceftin 430 420 – 204 (7) 113 3 113 10
Fortum 213 232 (9) 40 (17) 88 (1) 85 (14)
Amoxil 199 197 1 52 55 61 (18) 86 –
Anti-virals 12 1,899 1,610 14 917 17 531 13 451 12
HIV 1,145 982 14 686 16 345 18 114 (9)
Trizivir 7 – >100 6 >100 1 >100 – –
Combivir 562 454 21 345 17 173 38 44 (5)
Epivir 309 325 (7) 164 – 100 (9) 45 (22)
Retrovir 61 86 (30) 25 (22) 23 (35) 13 (33)
Ziagen 154 86 75 100 46 44 >100 10 >100
Agenerase 52 31 60 46 52 4 81 2 >100
Herpes 616 564 5 188 14 162 1 266 3
Valtrex 242 177 32 147 24 58 22 37 >100
Zovirax 374 387 (7) 41 (12) 104 (8) 229 (6)
Zeffix 70 15 >100 5 >100 7 >100 58 >100
Relenza 32 16 97 14 29 6 51 12 >100
Metabolic and 8 1,232 886 33 594 >100 248 (13) 390 3
gastro-intestinal
Avandia 462 89 >100 433 >100 8 >100 21 >100
Zantac 575 632 (11) 119 (18) 189 (16) 267 (4)
Lotronex 36 – >100 36 >100 – – – –
Vaccines 6 842 776 11 212 (5) 390 11 240 29
Hepatitis 462 480 (3) 168 (4) 210 (3) 84 (2)
Infanrix 171 120 47 35 59 98 34 38 84
Oncology and emesis 5 710 613 11 499 12 129 9 82 10
Zofran 491 416 13 338 15 93 12 60 6
Hycamtin 95 92 1 63 (5) 23 6 9 40
Cardiovascular 3 463 449 – 282 (8) 120 19 61 10
Coreg 148 125 11 148 17 – – – –
Dermatologicals 2 249 254 (4) 35 (20) 62 (5) 152 –
Arthritis (Relafen) 1 210 275 (28) 183 (30) 17 (7) 10 (23)
Other 5 837 842 (2) 171 (6) 228 (7) 438 2
Total sales
continuing business 97 14,982 13,190 11 7,464 15 4,225 6 3,293 9
Divested products 3 447 428 (2) 241 (1) 43 (5) 163 (3)
Famvir 152 132 11 114 20 18 (13) 20 (5)
Kytril 219 222 (7) 123 (14) 25 1 71 2
Other 76 74 (9) 4 (40) – – 72 (7)
Total pharmaceutical sales 100 15,429 13,618 10 7,705 15 4,268 6 3,456 8
*CER represents sales growth at constant exchange rates. Sterling growth can be calculated from the figures given above.60 GlaxoSmithKline Operating and financial review and prospects
Vaccines Strong growth in sales of Augmentinand Amoxiloffset declines
Vaccines sales reached £842 million, an increase of 11 per cent. In in Ceftinand Fortum, enabling sales in the anti-bacterial area to
the hepatitis franchise, Engerix-Bdeclined eight per cent due to outperform market growth. Augmentinbenefited from increased
lower sales in the USA, Havrix, for hepatitis A, grew slightly and prescriber awareness of its effectiveness against bacteria resistant
Twinrix, a combined hepatitis A and B vaccine in both adult and to other antibiotics.
paediatric strengths, grew five per cent to £95 million.
There was a minor impact on sales growth from product disposals:
Infanrix, GlaxoSmithKline’s range of combination vaccines for the anaesthesia portfolio in 1999 and the dermatological range in
diphtheria, tetanus, and pertussis (whooping cough), grew 47 per October 2000.
cent. In October 2000 the European Commission approved Infanrix
PeNta, which provides additional protection for hepatitis B and Europe
polio and Infanrix HeXawhich further adds protection against Sales in Europe, representing 28 per cent of the Group’s
haemophilus influenzae typeb disease. pharmaceutical sales, grew by six per cent.
In France, GlaxoSmithKline's largest market within the region, sales
Oncology and emesis
grew strongly, reflecting growth in the HIV portfolio and in the
Zofran, for emesis, a well-established product and a leader in its
asthma franchise. In the major markets of Italy, Germany and Spain,
sector, benefited from market growth in the USA, where over two
Seretidewas a key contributor to growth. The UK market benefited
thirds of its sales were generated.
from increased sales of Seretideand a successful launch of Zyban,
but overall sales declined slightly due to generic competition and
Other therapeutic areas
parallel trade.
Cardiovascular sales were stable, with 11 per cent growth in Coreg
and recent launches of Pritorfor hypertension in European markets The success of Seretidecontributed to a 10 per cent growth in the
offsetting declines in older products. Future sales should benefit asthma/COPD range, while growth in Lamictaland launches of
from new data showing Coreg’s effectiveness in treating severe Zybancontributed to a 16 per cent increase in total CNS sales. Sales
heart failure. of HIV products increased by 18 per cent, a combination of solid
growth in the established product range and uptake of the recently
The disposal of the anaesthesia franchise in the USA at the end of
launched Ziagen. Sales of Infanrix, the combination vaccine for
1999 contributed to a fall in this therapeutic area of 21 per cent.
children, grew by over a third, with recent approvals for Infanrix
In October 2000, Glaxo Wellcome’s US company also disposed
PeNtaand InfanrixHeXaoffering further potential for growth. In
of its portfolio of dermatological products, contributing to the
the cardiovascular area, the launch of Pritorled to a 19 per cent
four per cent decline in this sector.
increase in sales.
Pharmaceutical sales by geographic area Offsetting these strong performances were a decline in sales of
Augmentin, due to a mild 'flu season and the impact of generic
USA
competition in the UK and Germany, and the continuing decline in
Sales in the US market, representing half of total Group
Zantac. Avandiawas launched in the UK and Germany in late 2000.
pharmaceutical sales, grew by 15 per cent.
Avandia, launched in June 1999, achieved sales of £433 million Rest of World
and is the market leader in its class. It benefited from the Overall growth of eight per cent reflected a mix of double digit
withdrawal of a competitor product from the market in the first growth in Asia Pacific, Middle East and Africa, and Canada, with
quarter of the year. slower growth in Japan and Latin America.
Respiratory sales increased by 26 per cent, reflecting in particular In Asia Pacific, the markets principally contributing to sales growth
increased acceptance of inhaled steroids in the treatment of were Australia, the area’s largest market, with launches of Seretide
asthma. in August and Zybanin November, and China, where Zeffix,
launched in 1999, was the key factor in sales growth of 20 per cent.
CNS sales increased by 15 per cent. In the growing anti-
depressant market, DTC campaigns focussing on social anxiety In Japan, the Group’s second largest market, sales grew by five per
disorder helped Paxilto grow by 18 per cent. In the migraine cent. Sales of asthma products grew by a quarter, and the launch
portfolio growth of five per cent reversed the decline seen in the of Paxilin November and Relenzain December together added
previous year, reflecting the promotional efforts in 2000 and £19 million to sales. This was offset by a decline in sales of
some overall expansion in the market. Lamictal, although a antibiotics.
smaller product, contributed significantly to growth as its sales
In Latin America, sales growth of two per cent was affected by
increased by 34 per cent.
difficult conditions in Brazil. Excluding Brazil, sales in the region
In the anti-viral sector, HIV sales grew by 16 per cent, reflecting grew by 10 per cent. In Mexico, the Group’s largest market in the
continuing growth in the established products and uptake of the region, sales grew by 14 per cent, with good performances in most
newer products: Ziagen, Ageneraseand initial sales of Trizivir therapeutic areas, particularly in vaccines. In Brazil sales were affected
together generated over £150 million in sales. Approval to by a government drive to promote generic products and by the
market Trizivirwas received in November 2000. In the herpes impact of HIV contracts in 1999 which were not repeated in2000.
sector strong sales of Valtrexbenefited from the convenience of
The Middle East and Africa region grew by 12 per cent, with
its once-daily dosage form and from its wider usage as a long-
notable increases in HIV products and in antibiotics.
term herpes suppression therapy.
In Canada sales grew by 10 per cent reflecting strong growth in
Paxiland recent launches of Seretideand Avandia. The rest of the
asthma/COPD range and Wellbutrinalso contributed to growth,
while Zybandeclined by 13 per cent.Operating and financial review and prospectsGlaxoSmithKline 61
Consumer Healthcare sales Cost of sales
2000 1999 Cost of sales increased less than the increase in sales. In SmithKline
£m £m CER%
Beecham this reflects the benefits of manufacturing rationalisation;
OTC medicines 1,454 1,434 (1)
changes in product mix, with benefit from newly launched products;
Oral care 642 614 6
and reduced external royalties. In Glaxo Wellcome cost of sales
Nutritional healthcare 535 488 9
increased as a percentage of sales, reflecting lower production
Total sales continuing business 2,631 2,536 3 volumes following stockbuild in 1999, with a reduced rate of
Divested products 19 10 73 increase in the second half of the year as manufacturing
Total Consumer Healthcare sales2,650 2,546 3 rationalisation delivered efficiencies and some benefit from exchange.
Selling, general and administration
OTC medicines Selling, general and administration (SG&A) increased in line with
Sales growth in vitamins and naturals and in dermatologicals was sales growth. Higher selling costs, particularly to support product
offset by declines in other categories, notably in smoking control. launches of Avandia, Seretideand Paxil, were offset by savings in
Gastro-intestinal sales were affected by lower sales of Tumsin the administration costs.
competitive US market. Analgesics were affected by the voluntary
recall of Panadolin Australia following a tampering threat. Research and development
Research and development (R&D) expenditure increased less than
Smoking control sales declined eight per cent, reflecting competition
the increase in sales. Pharmaceuticals R&D was £2,435 million and
in the US market following the introduction of private label Nicotine
Consumer Healthcare R&D was £75 million.
Replacement Therapy(NRT) gum and patch. The introduction of
two new GlaxoSmithKline smoking control products in the US
Trading profit
market, Clear NicoDermPatchand Nicorette Orange Gum,
Trading profit increased 12 per cent, more than the increase in sales,
prevented further inroads from private label brands. Excluding the
reflecting management of SG&A in line with sales growth and lower
USA, smoking control sales grew by 58 per cent.
rates of increase on cost of sales and R&D.
Oral care
Healthcare Services
Sales of Aquafreshtoothpastes and toothbrushes increased by
The Healthcare Services businesses, divested during 1999, contributed
13percent, notably in the USA and in Rest of the World markets.
£25m of trading profit up to the date of divestment in 1999.
This was offset by declines in other Oral care brands.
Profit before taxation – business performance
Nutritional healthcare
Strong sales growth was achieved across the Nutritional healthcare The analysis and discussion below of profit before taxation relates to
range. Sales of Lucozadebenefited from strong growth of Lucozade business performance.
Sportin the UK.
2000 1999
Other operating income/(expense) £m £m
Divested products Royalties and other income 153 387
Divested products are those products which were sold in 2000 as Other operating expense (63) (138)
part of the regulatory approval for the merger.
90 249
Income from equity investments 184 164
Trading profit – business performance
274 413
To illustrate GlaxoSmithKline business performance in 2000, the
analysis below of trading profit and the subsequent discussion Net operating income was lower in 2000 than in 1999 due to fewer
excludes merger items, restructuring costs and the costs arising disposals of older products. Income from equity investments includes
from the disposal of the Healthcare Services businesses in 1999. further disposals of Affymetrix shares in the second half of the year,
Management believes that exclusion of these non-recurring items reducing the Group’s holding to 16 per cent.
provides a better comparison of business performance for the
periods presented. Accordingly this information is provided as a Disposal of associates
supplement to that contained in the consolidated statement of The Group reduced its investment in Affymetrix Inc in the first half
profit and loss on pages 68 and 69 prepared in accordance with UK of 2000, realising a gain of £144 million which is accounted as the
GAAP. The analysis and discussion focus on the retained businesses disposal of an interest in an associate. Subsequently the Group
of Pharmaceuticals and Consumer Healthcare (the performance of ceased to have significant influence over Affymetrix and at that time
Healthcare Services in 1999 is dealt with separately). ceased to equity account for the investment. Further disposals of
shares in Affymetrix were made in the second half of 2000, which
2000 1999
Growth are included as investment disposals in other operating income.
£m % £m % CER%
Sales 18,079 100.0 16,164 100.0 9 Profits/losses of associates and joint ventures
Cost of sales (3,811) (21.1) (3,499) (21.6) (8) The share of profits of associates arises principally from SmithKline
Selling, general (6,732) (37.2) (6,002) (37.2) (9) Beecham’s holding inQuest Diagnostics, Incorporated, which has
and administration been held from August 1999.
Research and (2,510) (13.9) (2,285) (14.1) (7)
development
Trading profit 5,026 27.8 4,378 27.1 1262 GlaxoSmithKline Operating and financial review and prospects
2000 1999
Net interest payable £m £m Manufacturing and other restructuring
Costs of £120 million were incurred by Glaxo Wellcome and
Interest payable (317) (293)
£51 million by SmithKline Beecham in implementation of their
Investment income 158 138
previously announced plans for restructuring of manufacturing
(159) (155)
and other activities.
Share of interest payable of associate (23) (7)
(182) (162) Associate
These costs represent the Group’s share of restructuring costs
Net interest payable includes the Group’s share of the net interest
incurred by the associate, Quest Diagnostics, Inc..
of the associate, Quest Diagnostics, Inc., for the whole of 2000 but
only from August in 1999. Apart from the Quest Diagnostics, Inc.
Divested businesses
interest, interest payable less investment income was broadly stable
The impact of the disposal of the Healthcare Services businesses in
in 2000 compared to 1999, reflecting a consistent average level of
August 1999 was £14 million in 2000 and £9 million net credit in
net debt in 2000 and in 1999. The proceeds from the disposal of
1999. Restructuring costs incurred by Healthcare Services in 1999
divested products were received in late December 2000, with only
were £30 million.
a minor benefit to net interest payablein 2000.
Taxation 2000 1999
Profit before taxation £m £m
Other operating income/(expense), together with the disposal of Business performance (1,454) (1,327)
the interest in anassociate, added £418 million to profit before Merger restructuring and disposal
taxation in 2000, compared to £452 million in 1999. Taking of subsidiaries (245) 109
account of the contribution from associates, comprising share of
Total taxation (1,699) (1,218)
profit less share of interest, less theGroup’s own net interest
payable, profit before tax was £5,327million, compared to
The charge for taxation on business performance profit amounting
£4,708 million in 1999, an increase of 11per cent.
to £1,454 million represents an effective tax rate of 27.3 per cent.
This is consistent with the rate of 27.5 per cent expected by Glaxo
Merger items, restructuring costs and divested businesses
Wellcome for 2000 and the rate of 27 per cent expected by
Merger SmithKline Beecham.
The costs of effecting the merger, referred to as ‘transaction costs’,
amounted to £121 million. The costs comprise the expenses and Earnings 2000 1999
£m £m
fees in preparing and implementing the Scheme of Arrangement
Earnings 4,154 2,859
for the merger, including obtaining approvals from shareholders
Earnings per Ordinary Share 68.5p 46.7p
and regulatory authorities and securing the admission of
Earnings per ADR $2.08 $1.51
GlaxoSmithKline shares to the Official List of the UK Listing
Authority.
Adjusted earnings 3,697 3,222
Costs incurred in planning for, and arising from, the integration of Adjusted earnings per Ordinary Share 61.0p 52.7p
the Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham businesses into a Adjusted earnings per ADR $1.85 $1.71
unified GlaxoSmithKline business, referred to as ‘integration costs’, Weighted average number of shares (millions) 6,065 6,118
amounted in 2000 to £400 million. The costs in 2000 include
consultancy fees in support of integration planning; severance costs Adjusted earnings and adjusted earnings per sharearepresented
recognised in 2000 arising from the initial stages of the integration above in order to illustrate business performance of
appointment process; some initial asset write-offs; costs of £156 GlaxoSmithKline.
million recognised by SmithKline Beecham in respect of the
Adjusted earnings increased by 13 per cent CER. Adjusted earnings
accelerated vesting of share options and share incentive awards as
per share increased by 14 per cent CER, reflecting the lower
a result of the merger; and costs recognised by Glaxo Wellcome
weighted average number of shares. The weighted average number
arising from the lapse of performance conditions attaching to
of shares, for the purposes of earnings per share, decreased due to
share incentive awards as a result of the merger.
purchases of shares by the Employee Share Ownership Trust to
In order to obtain regulatory approval for the merger, Glaxo satisfy future exercises of share options.
Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham agreed to a number of product
divestments. The most significant of these divestments were Famvir
and Kytril, which were sold in December 2000. Famvirwas sold to
Novartis and Kytrilwas sold to Roche. As part of the sale of Kytril
to Roche, GlaxoSmithKline purchased the exclusive rights to Coreg
in the USA and Canada.Operating and financial review and prospectsGlaxoSmithKline 63
Selected financial data UK/US GAAP
Profit and loss account 2001 2000 1999 1998 1997
£m £m £m £m £m
Amounts in accordance with UK GAAP
Business performance – retained businesses
Sales 20,489 18,079 16,164 14,938 14,736
Operating profit 6,090 5,300 4,791 4,412 4,471
Profit before taxation 6,169 5,327 4,683 4,299 4,242
Earnings/Net income 4,391 3,697 3,204 2,891 2,835
Business performance, which is the primary performance measure used by management, is presented after excluding merger items,
restructuring costs, disposal of subsidiaries and in 1999 and earlier years exclude the divested Healthcare Services business. Management
believes that exclusion of these non-recurring items provides a better comparison of business performance for the periods presented.
Accordingly this information is provided as a supplement to that contained in the consolidated statement of profit and loss on pages 68
and 69 prepared in accordance with UKGAAP. Total results include these non-recurring items.
Total results
Sales 20,489 18,079 16,796 16,002 15,716
Operating profit 4,734 4,729 4,343 4,306 4,520
Profit before taxation 4,517 6,029 4,236 3,564 4,210
Earnings/Net income 3,059 4,154 2,859 2,435 2,818
Earnings per share 50.4p 68.5p 46.7p 39.9p 47.7p
Weighted average number of shares (million) 6,064 6,065 6,118 6,100 6,052
Dividends per GlaxoSmithKline share (p):
GlaxoSmithKline shareholder 39
Glaxo Wellcome shareholder 38.0 37.0 36.0 35.0
SmithKline Beecham shareholder 29.66 26.69 24.02 21.85
Dividends per GlaxoSmithKline ADS ($):
GlaxoSmithKline shareholder 1.11
Glaxo Wellcome shareholder 1.16 1.20 1.19 1.17
SmithKline Beecham shareholder 0.91 0.86 0.81 0.74
Dividends are expressed in terms of a GlaxoSmithKline share/ADS.
Amounts in accordance with US GAAP
Total results
Sales 20,489 9,559 8,490 7,983 7,980
Income/(loss) from operations 590 (4,456) 1,634 1,816 1,951
Profit/(loss) before tax 494 (4,399) 1,584 1,804 1,819
Net (loss)/income (143) (5,228) 913 1,010 952
Balance sheet
£m £m £m £m £m
Amounts in accordance with UK GAAP
Total assets 21,917 21,590 18,774 18,104 16,514
Net assets 8,379 8,955 6,607 5,562 4,570
Equity shareholders’ funds 7,517 7,711 5,464 4,449 3,468
Amounts in accordance with US GAAP
Total assets 61,496 65,786 13,901 14,035 13,831
Net assets 40,969 46,239 7,281 8,073 7,839
Shareholders’ equity 40,107 44,995 7,230 8,007 7,792
Exchange rates
As a guide to holders of ADRs, the following tables set out, for the periods indicated, information on the exchange rate of US dollars for
sterling as reported by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (‘noon buying rate’).
Average 1.44 1.51 1.61 1.66 1.64
The average rate for the year is calculated as the average of the noon buying rates on the last day of each month during the year.
Feb Jan Dec Nov Oct Sept
2002 2002 2001 2001 2001 2001
High 1.43 1.45 1.46 1.47 1.48 1.47
Low 1.41 1.41 1.42 1.41 1.42 1.44
The noon buying rate on 6th March 2002 was £1=US$1.42.64 GlaxoSmithKline Operating and financial review and prospects
Results under US accounting principles 2001 and 2000
2001 2000
This review discusses the results of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the Changes in shareholders’ equity £m £m
years 2001 and 2000 and the shareholders’ equity at 31st
At beginning of year 44,995 7,230
December 2001 prepared under US accounting principles.
Net (loss)/income (143) (5,228)
The combination of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham has Shares issued on acquisition – 43,919
been accounted for as a merger under UKGAAP and the financial Share purchased and cancelled (1,274) –
statements of GlaxoSmithKline have been presented as if the two Share issues (share options) 144 121
companies had been combined for all periods presented. Under Treasury stock (501) (218)
USGAAP, Glaxo Wellcome was determined to be the accounting Dividends (2,872) (1,334)
acquirer of SmithKline Beecham in a purchase acquisition dated Other (242) 505
27th December 2000, and the financial statements of At end of year 40,107 44,995
GlaxoSmithKline prior to the merger are therefore those of Glaxo
Wellcome only. The net assets of SmithKline Beecham have been The book values of GlaxoSmithKline and both Glaxo Wellcome and
incorporated. SmithKline Beecham net assets on a UKGAAP basis are adjusted for
the normal UK/USGAAP differences. The principal adjustments are:
Results 2001 and 2000 inclusion of the unamortised goodwill and intangible assets from
Glaxo’s acquisition of Wellcome and Glaxo Wellcome’s acquisition of
2001 2000
Summary of results £m £m SmithKline Beecham; dividends on a declared rather than proposed
Sales 20,489 9,559 basis, and the treatment of shares held by the employee share
Trading profit 4,205 2,348 ownership trusts as treasury stock rather than investments.
Operating profit/(loss) 590 (4,456)
Profit/(loss) before tax 494 (4,399) Prospects
Net loss (143) (5,228)
GlaxoSmithKline has published expectations of future growth in
Basic loss per share (pence) (2.4) (145.6)
earnings per share, on a UKGAAPbasis, and excluding merger
Results are for GlaxoSmithKline in 2001 and Glaxo Wellcome in 2000. and restructuring items. Refer to ‘Outlook’ (page 56).
Sales increased primarily due to the acquisition of SmithKline GlaxoSmithKline expects to incur costs, and to deliver expense
Beecham on 27th December 2000 and Block Drug in January 2001. savings and synergies, from the integration of Glaxo Wellcome
and SmithKline Beecham operations in 2002 and beyond. Under
Trading profit for 2001 increased primarily as a result of the
UKGAAP these costs will be expensed. Under USGAAP certain
acquisition of SmithKline Beecham in December 2000 and Block
of these costs were expensed and others represented an
Drug in January 2001. Trading profit is lower on a USGAAPbasis
adjustment to the value of the acquired goodwill.
than a UK GAAPbasis, resulting primarily from a charge under
SFAS 123 for stock-based compensation and the amortisation of
Adoption of SFAS 133 and recent FASB pronouncements
product rights, purchased in 2001, which have not received
The company adopted SFAS 133, ‘Accounting for Derivative
regulatory approval.
Instruments and Hedging Activities’ on 1st January 2001. SFAS 133
Operating profit/(loss) also includes a significant difference for the requires all derivatives to be carried on the balance sheet at fair
annual charge for amortisation of goodwill and intangible assets value. The company has recorded the transition adjustment and
arising from Glaxo’s acquisition of Wellcome in 1995 and Glaxo movements within the ‘Derivative instruments’ adjustment.
Wellcome’s acquisition of SmithKline Beecham in 2000. These
SFAS 141, ‘Business Combinations’, requires that all business
intangible assets are recognised on the balance sheet and amortised
combinations from 1st July 2001 be accounted for using the
to the profit and loss statement under USGAAP but not for UK
purchase method.
GAAP. Additionally in 2000, a one-time charge of £6,324 million
was made to write off the in-process research and development SFAS 142, ‘Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets’ is required to be
acquired on the acquisition of SmithKline Beecham. The effect of implemented with effect from 1st January 2002. This standard will
these charges is to produce in 2001 a profit before tax of result in a reclassification of certain intangible assets to goodwill.
£494 million and, after tax and minority interest, a net loss for the In addition goodwill, and intangibles with indefinite useful lives,
year of £143 million, compared to a loss before tax for 2000 will no longer be amortised but subject to an annual impairment
of £4,399million and, after tax and minority interest, a net loss test. In 2001, amortisation expense for goodwill and intangibles
for 2000 of £5,228 million. that are considered to have an indefinite life was £1.6 billion.
SFAS143, ‘Accounting for Obligations Associated with the
Shareholders’ equity at 31st December 2001
Retirement of Long-Lived Assets’, was issued in August 2001 and
Shareholders’ equity at 31st December 2001 under UKGAAP in is required to be implemented with effect from 1st January 2003.
respect of GlaxoSmithKline was £7,517 million. The standard requires that the fair value of the obligation
associated with the retirement of tangible long-lived assets
The acquisition of SmithKline Beecham on 27th December 2000,
be capitalised into the asset cost.
financed by issuance of common stock at a premium to par,
increased shareholders’ equity by £43.9 billion. The considerationis In October 2001 the FASB issued SFAS 144, ‘Accounting for the
represented by some £2.7 billion of assets at book value on a US Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets’ which is required to
GAAP basis (£3.8 billion on a UKGAAPbasis), £34.9 billion fair value be implemented with effect from 1st January 2002. The standard
adjustments, principally in respect of intangible assets and goodwill, develops one accounting model for long-lived assets including
and a value of £6.3 billion ascribed to in-process research and discontinued operations to be disposed of by sale. The company
development which has been written off in the income statement. is currently assessing the impact of SFAS 143 and 144.GlaxoSmithKline 65
Financial statements
This section comprises the Directors’ statements, the independent
auditors’ report on the financial statements, the financial statements
consisting of the principal financial statements and supporting
notes, and additional financial data.
66 Directors’ statements of responsibility
67 Independent auditors’ report
Financial statements
68 Consolidated statement of profit and loss
68 Consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses
70 Consolidated statement of cash flow
72 Consolidated balance sheet
72 Reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders’ funds
73 Company balance sheet
74 Notes to the financial statements
1. Presentation of financial statements
2. Accounting policies
3. New accounting policies and requirements
4. Exchange rates
5. Merger of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham
6. Segment information
7. Merger items, restructuring costs and divested businesses
8. Other operating income/(expense)
9. Operating profit
10. Joint ventures and associated undertakings
11. Net interest payable
12. Taxation
13. Earnings per share
14. Dividends
15. Goodwill
16. Intangible assets
17. Tangible fixed assets
18. Fixed asset investments
19. Equity investments
20. Stocks
21. Debtors
22. Other creditors
23. Provisions for liabilities and charges
24. Contingent liabilities
25. Net debt
26. Commitments
27. Share capital and share premium account
28. Non-equity minority interest
29. Reserves
30. Legal proceedings
31. Acquisitions and disposals
32. Financial instruments and related disclosures
33. Employee share schemes
34. Directors’ remuneration
35. Employee costs
36. Reconciliation to US accounting principles
37. Principal Group companies
130 Principal financial statements in US$
Financial record
132 Quarterly trend
138 Five year record66 GlaxoSmithKline
Directors’ statements of responsibility
Directors’ statement of responsibility in relation Internal control
tothefinancial statements
The Board, through the Audit Committee, has reviewed the
The Directors are: assessment of risks and the internal control framework that
operates in GlaxoSmithKline plc and has considered the
• responsible for ensuring the maintenance of proper accounting
effectiveness of the system of internal control in operation
records, which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial
intheGroup for the year covered by this report and up to the
position of the Group at any time and from which financial
date of its approval by the Board of Directors.
statements can beprepared to comply with the Companies
Act1985
The Combined Code
• required by law to prepare financial statements for each
financial period which give a true and fair view of the state The Board considers that GlaxoSmithKline plc applies the principles
of affairs of the company and the Group as at the end of of the Combined Code, asdescribed under Corporate governance
the financial period and ofthe profit or loss for that period (pages 29 to 34), and has complied with the provisions of the
• responsible also for ensuring the operation of systems of Combined Code,withtheexception of the provisions relating to:
internalcontrol and for taking reasonable steps to safeguard
• the appointment of a senior independent director, where the
the assets of the Group and for preventing and detecting fraud
company’s position is described under Board and Executive
and other irregularities.
• Executive Directors’ service contracts, pensionable bonuses and
The financial statements for the year ended 31st December 2001, terminationcommitments, where the company’s position is
comprising principal statements and supporting notes, are set out described in the Remuneration report
inFinancial statements (pages 68 to 129 of this report). • the Chairman of the Remuneration & Nominations Committee
was unable to attend the Annual General Meeting in 2001
The Directors confirm that suitable accounting policies have been
owing to other business commitments.
consistently applied in the preparation of the financial statements,
supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates As required by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority,
asnecessary; applicable accounting standards have been followed, the auditors haveconsidered the Directors’ statement of compliance
and the financial statements have been prepared on the going in relation to those points of the Combined Code which are
concern basis. specified for theirreview.
The responsibilities of the auditors in relation to the financial
Annual Report
statements are set out in the independent auditors’ report
(page 67 opposite). The Annual Report for the year ended 31st December 2001,
comprising the Report of the Directors, the Financial statements
The financial statements for the year ended 31st December 2001
and additional information for investors, has been approved by
are included in the Annual Report 2001, which is published by the
the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by
company in hard-copy printed form and on the company’s web site
on the internet. The Directors are responsible for the maintenance
Sir Richard Sykes, Chairman
and integrity of the Annual Report on the web site in accordance
12th March 2002
with UK legislation governing the preparation and dissemination
of financial statements. Access to the web site is available from
outside the UK, where comparable legislation may be different.
Directors’ remuneration
The Remuneration report (pages 35 to 42 of this report) describes
the Board’s policy on directors’ remuneration that applies in
GlaxoSmithKline plc and sets out details of the remuneration
earned by the Directors in 2001.
For convenience, the Remuneration report includes other disclosable
information relating to Directors and officers and their interests.
Statutory disclosures in respect of the remuneration attributable
toDirectors of GlaxoSmithKline plc are set out in Note 34 to the
Financial statements.
The Remuneration report complies with Section B of the Combined
Code.
Going concern basis
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable
expectationthat the Group and company have adequate resources
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Forthis reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis
inpreparing the accounts.GlaxoSmithKline 67
Independent Auditors’ report
to the members of GlaxoSmithKline plc
We have audited the consolidated financial statements which Basis of Audit Opinion
comprise the consolidated statement of profit and loss,
We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards
consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses,
issued by the United Kingdom Auditing Practices Board and
consolidated statement of cash flow, consolidated balance sheet
withAuditing Standards generally accepted in the United States.
and the related notes, which have been prepared under the
Anaudit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant
historical cost convention and the accounting policies set out in
to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. It also
the statement of accounting policies. We have also examined the
includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements
amounts disclosed relating to the emoluments, share options and
made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial
long-term incentives of the Directors which form part of the
statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate
Remuneration report.
to the company’s circumstances, consistently applied and
adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and
information and explanations which we considered necessary in
the consolidated financial statements in accordance with applicable
order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable
United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the
assurance that the consolidated financial statements are free from
statement of Directors’ responsibilities.
material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other
Our responsibility is to audit the consolidated financial statements in irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the
accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements, United overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the
Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board consolidated financial statements.
and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
United Kingdom Opinion
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial
statements give a true and fair view and are properly prepared In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view of
inaccordance with the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985. the state of affairs of the company and the Group at 31st December
Wealso report to you if, in our opinion, the report of the Directors 2001 and of the profit and cash flows of the Group for the year
is not consistent with the consolidated financial statements, if the then ended and have been properly prepared in accordance with
company hasnot kept proper accounting records, if we have not the United Kingdom Companies Act1985.
received all the information and explanations we require for our
audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules United States Opinion
regarding Directors’ remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
In our opinion the financial statements present fairly, in all material
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and respects, the consolidated financial position of the Group at
consider the implications for our report if we become aware of 31stDecember 2001 and 2000 and the results of its consolidated
anyapparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the operations andits consolidated cash flows for each of the three
consolidated financial statements. The other information comprises years in the period ended 31st December 2001 in conformity with
only the report of the Directors, the joint statement by the accounting principles generally accepted in the United Kingdom.
Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer, the operating and
Accounting principles generally accepted in the United Kingdom
financial review and the corporate governance statement.
vary in certain significant respects from accounting principles
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects generally accepted in the United States. The application of the latter
the company’s compliance with the seven provisions of the would have affected the determination of consolidated net income
Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and expressed insterling for each of the three years in the period ended
we report if it does not. We are not required to consider whether 31stDecember 2001 and the determination of consolidated
the Board’s statements on internal control cover all risks and shareholders’ equity also expressed in sterling at 31st December
controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the 2001 and 2000 to the extent summarised in Note 36 to the
company’s or Group’s corporate governance procedures or its financial statements.
risk and control procedures.
PricewaterhouseCoopers
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
Southwark Towers
London, England
12th March 200268 GlaxoSmithKline
Consolidated statement of profit and loss
2001
Merger,
restructuring
Business and disposal
performance of subsidiaries Total
Notes £m £m £m
Turnover (including £594 million relating to acquisitions in 2001) 6 20,489 – 20,489
Cost of sales (4,430) (303) (4,733)
Gross profit 16,059 (303) 15,756
Selling, general and administrative expenditure (7,451) (957) (8,408)
Research and development expenditure (2,555) (96) (2,651)
Trading profit 6,053 (1,356) 4,697
Other operating income/(expense) 8 37 – 37
Operating profit (including £131 million relating to acquisitions in 2001) 7,9 6,090 (1,356) 4,734
Share of profits/(losses) of joint ventures and associated undertakings 7,9 71 – 71
Profit on disposal of interest in associate 31 96 – 96
Product divestments 7 – – –
Merger transaction costs 7 – – –
Disposal of businesses:
Loss on disposal 7 – (296) (296)
Utilisation of provision 7 – – –
Profit before interest 6,257 (1,652) 4,605
Net interest payable 11 (88) – (88)
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 6,169 (1,652) 4,517
Taxation 7,12 (1,647) 320 (1,327)
Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 4,522 (1,332) 3,190
Minority interests (97) – (97)
Preference share dividends (34) – (34)
Earnings (Profit attributable to shareholders) 13 4,391 (1,332) 3,059
Earnings per share 13 – 50.4p
Adjusted earnings per share 13 72.4p –
Diluted earnings per share 13 – 50.0p
Profit attributable to shareholders 3,059
Dividends 14 (2,356)
Retained profit 703
All items dealt with in arriving at business performance operating profit relate to continuing activities. There is no difference between the
profit on ordinary activities before taxation and the retained profit stated above and their historical cost equivalents.
Consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses
2001
£m
Profit attributable to shareholders 3,059
Exchange movements on overseas net assets (151)
UK tax on exchange movements –
Total recognised gains and losses 2,908Consolidated statement of profit and lossGlaxoSmithKline 69
2000 1999
Merger, Business performance
restructuring Restructuring
Business and disposal Retained Divested and disposal
Performance of subsidiaries Total businesses business Total of subsidiaries Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
18,079 – 18,079 16,164 632 16,796 – 16,796
(3,811) (151) (3,962) (3,499) (436) (3,935) (399) (4,334)
14,268 (151) 14,117 12,665 196 12,861 (399) 12,462
(6,732) (404) (7,136) (6,002) (170) (6,172) (74) (6,246)
(2,510) (16) (2,526) (2,285) (1) (2,286) – (2,286)
5,026 (571) 4,455 4,378 25 4,403 (473) 3,930
274 – 274 413 – 413 – 413
5,300 (571) 4,729 4,791 25 4,816 (473) 4,343
65 (8) 57 15 – 15 (8) 7
144 – 144 39 – 39 – 39
– 1,416 1,416 – – – – –
– (121) (121) – – – – –
– (14) (14) – – – (635) (635)
– – – – – – 644 644
5,509 702 6,211 4,845 25 4,870 (472) 4,398
(182) – (182) (162) – (162) – (162)
5,327 702 6,029 4,683 25 4,708 (472) 4,236
(1,454) (245) (1,699) (1,320) (7) (1,327) 109 (1,218)
3,873 457 4,330 3,363 18 3,381 (363) 3,018
(120) – (120) (110) – (110) – (110)
(56) – (56) (49) – (49) – (49)
3,697 457 4,154 3,204 18 3,222 (363) 2,859
– 68.5p – 46.7p
61.0p – 52.7p –
– 67.7p – 46.3p
4,154 2,859
(2,097) (2,005)
2,057 854
2000 1999
£m £m
4,154 2,859
(23) (272)
16 (44)
4,147 2,54370 GlaxoSmithKline
Consolidated statement of cash flow
Reconciliation of operating profit to operating cash flows 2001 2000 1999
Notes £m £m £m
Operating profit 4,734 4,729 4,343
Depreciation 761 735 650
Impairment and intangible assets written off 178 136 172
Amortisation of goodwill and intangible fixed assets 50 38 55
Loss on sale of tangible fixed assets 99 41 24
Profit on sale of equity investments (118) (225) (171)
Decrease/(increase) in stocks 252 (16) (406)
Increase in trade and other debtors (77) (333) (271)
Increase in trade and other creditors 601 402 155
Increase in pension and other provisions 144 70 265
Other (93) (39) –
Merger transaction costs paid (24) (97) –
Net cash inflow from operating activities 6,507 5,441 4,816
Cash flow statement
Net cash inflow from operating activities 6,507 5,441 4,816
Dividends from joint ventures and associated undertakings – 1 2
Returns on investment and servicing of finance (191) (322) (315)
Taxation paid (1,717) (1,240) (1,095)
Capital expenditure and financial investment (1,779) (327) (2,241)
Acquisitions and disposals 31 (657) 66 973
Equity dividends paid (2,325) (2,028) (1,833)
Net cash (outflow)/inflow before management of liquid resources and financing (162) 1,591 307
Management of liquid resources 994 (223) (36)
Financing (1,444) (546) (175)
(Decrease)/increase in cash in the year (612) 822 96
Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt
Net debt at beginning of year (611) (2,357) (2,717)
(Decrease)/increase in cash in the year (612) 822 96
Cash (outflow)/inflow from management of liquid resources (994) 223 36
Net increase in long-term loans (861) (9) (114)
Net repayment of short-term loans 860 706 456
Net repayment of/(increase in) obligations under finance leases 2 (13) 5
Net non-cash funds of subsidiary undertakings acquired 56 – –
Exchange adjustments 59 24 (113)
Other non-cash movements – (7) (6)
Movement in net debt (1,490) 1,746 360
Net debt at end of year 25 (2,101) (611) (2,357)Consolidated statement of cash flowGlaxoSmithKline 71
Analysis of cash flows 2001 2000 1999
£m £m £m
Returns on investment and servicing of finance
Interest received 134 157 139
Interest paid (196) (328) (291)
Dividends paid to minority shareholders (91) (95) (113)
Dividends paid on preference shares (38) (56) (50)
(191) (322) (315)
Taxation paid (1,717) (1,240) (1,095)
Capital expenditure and financial investment
Purchase of tangible fixed assets (1,115) (1,007) (1,139)
Sale of tangible fixed assets 65 46 116
Purchase of intangible assets (196) (96) (106)
Sale of intangible assets 6 – 1
Product divestments (30) 1,529 –
Purchase of own shares for employee share options and awards (795) (1,232) (1,291)
Proceeds from own shares for employee share options 194 206 45
Purchase of equity investments (47) (62) (37)
Sale of equity investments 139 289 170
(1,779) (327) (2,241)
Acquisitions and disposals(Note 31)
Purchase of businesses (848) (25) (67)
Cash acquired with subsidiary 45 – –
Disposal of businesses 66 (62) 1,002
Investment in joint ventures and associated undertakings (44) (2) (3)
Disposal of interests in associates 124 155 41
(657) 66 973
Financing
Issue of Ordinary Share capital 144 185 171
Redemption of preference shares issued by a subsidiary (457) – –
Ordinary Share capital purchased for cancellation (1,274) – –
Other financing cash flows 144 (47) 1
Increase in long-term loans 973 12 123
Repayment of long-term loans (112) (3) (9)
Net repayment of short-term loans (860) (706) (456)
Net (repayment of)/increase in obligations under finance leases (2) 13 (5)
(1,444) (546) (175)
Analysis of changes in net debt At 31.12.01 Cash flow Acquisitions Exchange Other At 1.1.01
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Cash repayable on demand 716 (619) 45 15 – 1,275
Overdrafts (230) (38) – (1) – (191)
486 (657) 45 14 – 1,084
Debt due within one year:
Commercial paper (1,269) 342 – (12) – (1,599)
Other (625) 518 (99) 14 (567) (491)
(1,894) 860 (99) 2 (567) (2,090)
Debt due after one year:
Euro Bonds and Medium-Term Notes (2,059) (903) (70) (9) 567 (1,644)
Other (49) 44 – 14 – (107)
(2,108) (859) (70) 5 567 (1,751)
Management of liquid resources:
Cash balances not repayable on demand – (8) – – – 8
Liquid investments 1,415 (986) 225 38 – 2,138
1,415 (994) 225 38 – 2,146
Net debt (2,101) (1,650) 101 59 – (611)72 GlaxoSmithKline
Consolidated balance sheet
2001 2000
Notes £m £m
Goodwill 15 174 170
Intangible assets 16 1,673 966
Tangible assets 17 6,845 6,642
Investments 18 3,228 2,544
Fixed assets 11,920 10,322
Equity investments 19 185 171
Stocks 20 2,090 2,277
Debtors 21 5,591 5,399
Liquid investments 25 1,415 2,138
Cash at bank 25 716 1,283
Current assets 9,997 11,268
Loans and overdrafts 25 (2,124) (2,281)
Other creditors 22 (7,306) (6,803)
Creditors: amounts due within one year (9,430) (9,084)
Net current assets 567 2,184
Total assets less current liabilities 12,487 12,506
Loans 25 (2,108) (1,751)
Other creditors 22 (190) (143)
Creditors: amounts due after one year (2,298) (1,894)
Provisions for liabilities and charges 23 (1,810) (1,657)
Net assets 8,379 8,955
Called up share capital 27 1,543 1,556
Share premium account 27 170 30
Other reserves 29 1,866 1,849
Profit and loss account 29 3,938 4,276
Equity shareholders’ funds 7,517 7,711
Non-equity minority interest 28 621 1,039
Equity minority interests 241 205
Capital employed 8,379 8,955
Approved by the Board
Sir Richard Sykes,Chairman
12th March 2002
Reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders’ funds
2001 2000
Notes £m £m
Equity shareholders’ funds at beginning of year 7,711 5,464
Total recognised gains and losses for the year 2,908 4,147
Dividends 14 (2,356) (2,097)
Ordinary Shares issued 144 185
Ordinary Shares purchased and cancelled (1,274) –
Exchange movements on goodwill written off to reserves 28 10
Goodwill written back 29 356 2
Equity shareholders’ funds at end of year 7,517 7,711GlaxoSmithKline 73
Company balance sheet
2001 2000
Notes £m £m
Shares in subsidiary companies – at cost 1,574 1,556
Fixed assets 1,574 1,556
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 2,122 –
Cash at bank – 30
Current assets 2,122 30
Taxation (1) –
Dividends proposed 14 (1,264) –
Creditors: amounts due within one year (1,265) –
Net assets 2,431 1,586
Called up share capital 27 1,543 1,556
Share premium account 27 170 30
Other reserves 29 17 –
Profit and loss account 29 701 –
Equity shareholders’ funds 2,431 1,586
Approved by the Board
Sir Richard Sykes,Chairman
12th March 200274 GlaxoSmithKline
Notes to the financial statements
1 Presentation of financial statements Additional information in accordance with the requirements of
USgenerally accepted accounting principles (US GAAP) is included
Description of business
in the notes to the financial statements. In Note 36 a statement of
GlaxoSmithKline is a major global healthcare group which is
differences, and a reconciliation of net income and shareholders’
engaged in the creation and discovery, development, manufacture
equity, between UK and US GAAP are provided, and the principal
and marketing of pharmaceutical products including vaccines,
financial statements are presented in accordance with US GAAP
over-the-counter (OTC) medicines and health-related consumer
andin a USGAAP format.
products. GlaxoSmithKline’s principal pharmaceutical products
include medicines in the following therapeutic areas: central
Merger of GlaxoWellcome plc and SmithKline Beecham plc
nervous system disorders, respiratory, anti-bacterials, anti-virals,
GlaxoSmithKline plc acquired Glaxo Wellcome plc and SmithKline
metabolic and gastro-intestinal, vaccines, oncology and emesis,
Beecham plc by way of a scheme of arrangement for the merger of
cardiovascular and arthritis.
the two companies which became effective on 27th December 2000.
Financial period Under UKGAAP the financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc
These accounts cover the financial year from 1st January to are prepared as a merger of GlaxoWellcome plc and SmithKline
31stDecember 2001, with comparative figures for the financial Beecham plc. The comparative figures for the years to
years from 1st January to 31st December 2000 and 1st January 31st December 2000 and 31st December 1999 therefore include
to31st December 1999. the results of Glaxo Wellcome plc and SmithKline Beecham plc.
Under US GAAP the financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc
Composition of the Group
are prepared as an acquisition of SmithKline Beecham plc by
A list of the subsidiary and associated undertakings which, in
Glaxo Wellcome plc at 27th December 2000. Accordingly the
the opinion of the Directors, principally affected the amount of
results of SmithKline Beecham for all periods prior to that date
profit or the net assets of the Group is given in Principal Group
are not consolidated.
companies, Note 37.
Presentation of statement of profit and loss
Composition of financial statements
A columnar presentation has been adopted in the statement of
The consolidated financial statements are drawn up in accordance
profit and loss in order to illustrate underlying business performance
with UK generally accepted accounting principles (UKGAAP) and
as this is the primary measure used by management. For this
with UK accounting presentation.
purpose certain items are identified separately and are excluded
The financial statements comprise: from business performance. These comprise: merger and integration
items, including product divestments; costs relating to previously
• Consolidated statement of profit and loss
announced manufacturing and other restructuring, and theeffect
• Consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses
of disposals of subsidiaries.
• Consolidated statement of cash flow
• Consolidated balance sheet Trading profit reflects sales less: cost of sales, comprising costs
• Reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders’ funds ofmanufacture and external royalties; selling, general and
• Company balance sheet administrative expenditure, comprising the costs of selling,
• Notes to the financial statements. distribution and medical support of currently marketed products
and the costs of administration, and the costs of research and
As permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, the
development to create future products for sale.
profitand loss account of the company is not presented.
The consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses Accounting convention
comprises: The financial statements have been prepared using the historical
cost convention.
• the realised profit attributable to shareholders as reflected in
theconsolidated profit and loss account
Accounting standards
• the unrealised gain or loss in the value of the Group’s overseas
The financial statements comply with all applicable UK accounting
net assets, less related foreign currency borrowings, attributable
standards.
to currency movements over the period.
The reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders’ funds Accounting principles and policies
comprises the items contributing to the increase or decrease over The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
the period in shareholders’ funds. Such items include: accepted accounting principles requires management to make
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of
• the total recognised gains and losses for the period
assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and
• dividends paid and proposed
liabilities at the date of the accounts and the reported amounts of
• the proceeds of shares issued during the period
revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results
• the cost of shares purchased for cancellation under the
could differ from those estimates.
share buy-back programme
• changes to goodwill, arising on acquisitions prior to The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the
1st January 1998, which has been set directly against reserves. company’s accounting policies approved by the Board and described
in Note 2. The company has implemented two new Financial
Reporting Standards as described inNote 3.Notes to the financial statements GlaxoSmithKline 75
2 Accounting policies Foreign currency transactions
Foreign currency transactions by Group companies are booked
Consolidation
inlocal currency at the exchange rate ruling on the date of
The consolidated accounts include:
transaction, or at the forward rate if hedged by a forward
• the assets and liabilities, and the results and cash flow, of the exchangecontract. Foreign currency assets and liabilities are
company and its subsidiary undertakings, including Employee translated into local currency at rates of exchange ruling at the
Share Ownership Trusts (ESOTs) balance sheet date, or at the forward rate. Exchange differences
• the Group’s share of the net assets and results of joint ventures areincluded in trading profit.
and associated undertakings.
Revenue
The accounts of undertakings consolidated are made up to
Revenue is recognised in the profit and loss account when goods
31st December.
or services are supplied to external customers against orders
Undertakings in which the Group has a material interest are received. Turnover represents the net invoice value, after the
accounted for as subsidiaries where the Group exercises dominant deduction of discounts given at the point of sale, of products
influence, as joint ventures where the Group exercises joint control despatched to, or available for collection by, customers, less
and as associates where the Group can exercise significant accruals for estimated future rebates and returns. Value added
influence. ESOTs are accounted for as subsidiaries on the grounds tax and other sales taxes are excluded from revenue.
that the Group has de facto control.
Expenditure
Interests acquired in undertakings are consolidated from the
Expenditure is recognised in respect of goods and services
effective date of acquisition and interests sold are consolidated
received when supplied in accordance with contractual terms.
upto the date of disposal.
Provision is made when an obligation exists for a future liability
Transactions and balances between subsidiary undertakings are in respect of a past event and where the amount of the
eliminated; no profit is taken on sales between subsidiary obligation can be reliably estimated. Restructuring costs are
undertakings or sales to joint ventures and associated undertakings recognised in respect of the direct expenditures of a business
until the products are sold to customers outside the Group. reorganisation where the plans are sufficiently detailed and well
advanced, and where appropriate communication to those
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of interestsin subsidiary
affected has been undertaken at the balance sheet date.
undertakings, joint ventures and associated undertakings,
representing the excess of the purchase consideration over the
Research and development
Group’s share of the separable net assets acquired, is capitalised
Research and development expenditure is charged to the profit
asa separate item in the case of subsidiary undertakings and as
and loss account in the period in which it is incurred. Tangible
part of the cost of investment in the case of joint ventures and
fixed assets used for research and development are depreciated
associated undertakings. Goodwill is denominated in the currency
in accordance with the Group’s policy.
inwhich the acquisition is made and financed. In the case of
acquisitions prior to 1998, goodwill was written off against
Environmental expenditure
reserves; on a subsequent disposal of assets from such acquisitions,
Environmental expenditure related to existing conditions resulting
any related goodwill is removed from consolidated reserves and
from past or current operations and from which no current or
charged to the consolidated profit and lossaccount.
future benefit is discernible is charged to the profit and loss
The Group’s interests in its joint ventures are accounted for using account. The Group determines its liability on a site-by-site basis
thegross equity method. The Group’s interests in its associated and records a liability at the time when it is probable and can be
undertakings are accounted for using the equity method. reasonably estimated. This liability includes the Group’s own
portion of the costs and also a portion of other potentially
Deferred taxation relief on unrealised intra-Group profit is
responsible parties costs when it is probable that they will not be
accounted for only to the extent that the related taxation effect
able to satisfy their respective share of the clean-up obligation.
isexpected to reverse.
When recoveries of reimbursements are virtually certain they are
Assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiary and associated recorded as assets.
undertakings and joint ventures including related goodwill, are
translated into sterling at rates of exchange ruling at the balance Legal and other disputes
sheet date. The results and cash flows of overseas subsidiary and Provision is made for the anticipated settlement costs and legal
associated undertakings and joint ventures are translated into and other expenses associated with legal and other disputes
sterling using average rates of exchange. Exchange adjustments against the Group where a reasonable estimate can be made
arising when the opening net assets and the profits for theyear of the likely outcome of the dispute. Where an obligation exists
retained by overseas subsidiary and associated undertakings and under a dispute but it is not possible to make a reasonable
joint ventures are translated into sterling, less exchange differences estimate, no provision is made. Costs associated with claims
arising on related foreign currency borrowings, are taken directly made by the Group against third parties are charged to the
to reserves and reported in the statement of total recognised gains profit and loss account as they are incurred.
andlosses.
In translating into sterling, assets, liabilities, results and cash flows
of overseas subsidiary and associated undertakings and joint ventures
reported in currencies of hyper-inflationary economies, adjustments
aremade to reflect current price levels. Any loss on net monetary
assetsis charged to the consolidated profit and loss account.76 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
2 Accounting policiescontinued Tangible fixed assets
Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less a provision for
Pensions and post-retirement benefits
depreciation. The costs of acquiring and developing computer
The cost of providing pensions and other employee post-retirement
software for internal use and internet sites for external use are
benefits is charged to the consolidated profit and loss account on a
capitalised as a tangible fixed asset where the software or site
systematic and rational basis, based on actuarial assumptions, over
supports a significant business system and the expenditure leads
the period during which benefit is derived from employees’ services.
to the creation of a durable asset.
Any difference between this charge and the contributions paid is
included as an asset or liability in the consolidated balance sheet. Depreciationis calculated to write off the cost of tangible fixed
assets, excluding freehold land, in equal annual instalments over
Employee share plans their expected useful lives. The normal expected useful lives of the
Incentives in the form of shares are provided to employees under major categories of tangible fixed assets are:
share option and share award schemes. In respect of award
schemes and certain share option grants, the company provides Freehold buildings 20 to 50 years
finance to Employee Share Ownership Trusts to purchase company Leasehold land and The shorter of lease term and 50
shares on the open market to meet the company’s obligation to buildings years
provide shares when employees exercise their option or award; Plant and machinery 10 to 20 years
theexcess of the purchase price of the shares above the exercise Fixtures and equipment 3 to 10 years
price of the options and awards is charged to the profit and loss ERP systems software 7 years
account over the periods of service in respect of which the options Other computer software 3 to 5 years
and awards are granted. In respect of other share option grants,
ERP systems software generally involves significant customisation
share options when exercised are accounted for as share issues at
prior to implementation and this is regarded to have a useful
exercise price. Additional employer costs in respect of options and
economic life of seven years, rather than the maximum five years
awards are charged to the profit and loss account over the periods
of other computer software.
of service.
Ondisposal of a tangible fixed asset, the cost and related
Costs of running employee share ownership trusts are charged to
accumulated depreciation are removed from the accounts and the
the profit and loss account.
net amount, less any proceeds, is taken to the consolidated profit
Shares held by employee share ownership trusts are accounted for and loss account.
as fixed asset investments at cost less accrual for costs charged.
Leases
Goodwill Leasing agreements which transfer to the Group substantially all
Goodwill is stated at cost less a provision for amortisation. the benefits and risks of ownership of an asset are treated as
Amortisation is calculated to write off the cost in equal annual finance leases, as if the asset had been purchased outright. The
instalments over its expected useful life. The useful life is not assets are included intangible fixed assets and the capital element
normally expected to exceed 20 years. of the leasing commitments is shown as obligations under finance
leases. Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the
Intangible fixed assets shorter ofthe lease terms and the useful lives of the assets. The
Intangible assets are stated at cost less a provision for amortisation. interest element of the lease rental is charged against profit.
All other leases are operating leases and the annual rentals are
Acquired licences, patents, know-how and marketing rights are
charged against profit on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
amortised over their estimated useful lives in equal instalments, but
no longer than 15 years. This limit has been reduced from the
Impairment of fixed assets
20year maximum allowed in prior periods as management believes
The carrying values of fixed assets are reviewed for impairment
this better reflects the useful economic lives of these assets. Items
when there is an indication that the assets might be impaired.
capitalised are restricted to those related to specific compounds or
Firstyear impairment reviews are conducted for acquired goodwill
products which are being developed for commercial applications.
and intangible assets. Certain intangibles are considered to have
The estimated useful lives for determining the amortisation charge
anindefinite life and are therefore not amortised. Such intangibles
are reviewed annually, andtake into account the estimated time it
are subject to annual impairment tests. Impairment is determined
takes to bring the compounds or products to market as marketable
byreference to the higher of net realisable value and value in use,
products. Anydevelopment costs which are incurred by the Group
which is measured by reference to discounted future cash flows.
and areassociated with an acquired licence, patent, know-how
Any provision for impairment is charged against profit in the
or marketing rights are written off to the profit and loss account
yearconcerned.
whenincurred.
Brands are valued independently as part of the fair value of Investments in joint ventures and associates
businesses acquired from third parties where the brand has a value Investments in joint ventures and associated undertakings are
which is substantial and long-term and where the brands can be carried in the consolidated balance sheet at the Group’s share
sold separately from the rest of the businesses acquired. Brands oftheir net assets at date of acquisition and of their post-
areamortised over the estimated useful lives but no longer than acquisition retained profits or losses together with any goodwill
20years, except where the end of the useful economic life of the arising on the acquisition, net of amortisation.
brand cannot be forseen.
Stocks
Prior to 1998, acquired minor brands and similar intangibles were
Stocksare included in the accounts at the lower of cost (including
eliminated in the Group balance sheet against reserves in the year
manufacturing overheads, where appropriate) and net realisable
of acquisition.
value. Cost is generally determined on a first in, first out basis.Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 77
2 Accounting policiescontinued 3 New accounting policies and requirements
Taxation The company has implemented Financial Reporting Standard 18:
Deferred taxation, calculated using the liability method, is ‘Accounting policies’ and the transitional disclosure requirements
accounted for by each Group company for taxation deferred or of Financial Reporting Standard 17: ‘Retirement benefits’. FRS 18
accelerated by reason of timing differences. Deferred taxation relief updates an existing standard and provides new guidance. It has
is accounted for in full onlong-term timing differences in respect not had a significant effect on measurement of the results and
ofprovisions for unfunded retirement benefits. Taxation deferred assets and liabilities of the company. FRS 17 adopts a market value
oraccelerated by reason of short-term and other timing differences approach to the measurement of retirement benefits and requires
is accounted for to the extent that it is probable that a liability or expanded disclosures. The disclosure requirements have been
asset will crystallise. implemented by the company in 2001. The Standard does not
require implementation of the change in measurement approach
Current asset investments until 2003.
Current asset investments are stated at the lower of cost and net
FRS 19: ‘Deferred tax’ falls to be implemented by the company in
realisable value.
2002. The FRS requires deferred tax to be accounted for on a full
In the case of securities acquired at a significant premium or provision basis, rather than a partial provision basis as at present.
discount to maturity value, and intended to be held to redemption, At 31st December 2001 the effect of the full provision basis would
cost is adjusted to amortise the premium or discount over the life be to reduce the deferred tax asset by approximately £127 million.
tomaturity of the security. Floating rate bonds are stated at cost.
Interest income is taken to the consolidated profit and loss account 4 Exchange rates
on a receivable basis.
The Group uses the average of exchange rates prevailing during
Equity investments are included as current assets when regarded the period to translate the results and cash flows of overseas Group
asavailable for sale. subsidiary, joint venture and associated undertakings into sterling
and period end rates to translate the net assets of those
Debt instruments undertakings. Thecurrencies which most influence these
Debt instruments are stated at the amount of net proceeds translations, and the relevant exchange rates, were:
adjustedto amortise the finance cost of debt evenly over the term
of the debt. 2001 2000 1999
Average rates:
Derivative financial instruments £/US$ 1.44 1.52 1.62
The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments £/Euro 1.61 1.64 1.52
for trading purposes. £/Yen 175.00 163.46 184.05
Period end rates:
Derivative financial instruments are used to manage exposure to
£/US$ 1.45 1.49 1.61
market risks from treasury operations. The principal derivative
£/Euro 1.64 1.61 1.61
instruments are currency swaps, forward exchange contracts and £/Yen 190.00 171.00 164.97
interest rate swaps. The derivative contracts are treated from
inception as an economic hedge of the underlying financial 5 Merger of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham
instrument, with matching accounting treatment and cash flows.
The combination of Glaxo Wellcome plc and SmithKline Beecham plc
The derivative contracts have high correlation with the specific
was treated as a merger at 27th December 2000 under UK GAAP,
financial instrument being hedged both at inception and
reflecting the intentions, and the respective sizes of the merging
throughout the hedge period. Derivative instruments no longer
parties.
designated as hedges are restated at market value and any future
changes in value are taken directly to the profit and loss account. Under merger accounting, the shares issued by GlaxoSmithKline plc
to acquire Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham were accounted
Currency swaps and forward exchange contracts used to fix the
for at par and no share premium arose; the shares acquired by
value of the related asset or liability in the contract currency and at
GlaxoSmithKline in Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham were
the contract rate are accrued to the profit and loss account over the
similarly accounted for at the nominal value of the shares issued.
life of the contract. Gains and losses on foreign exchange contracts
Inthe consolidated accounts of GlaxoSmithKline, the results and
designated as hedges of forecast foreign exchange transactions are
netassets of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham were
deferred and included in the measurement of the related foreign
combined, at their book amounts, subject to alignment adjustments.
currency transactions in the period they occur. Gains and losses on
balance sheet hedges are accrued and are taken directly to reserves, Inview of the proximity of the merger date to the financial year-end
except that forward premium/discounts are recognised as interest date, and the relative insignificance of any business activity between
over the life of the contracts. 27th December 2000 and 31st December 2000, the accounting date
of the merger was for practical purposes taken as 31stDecember
Interest differentials under interest swap agreements are recognised
2000. The whole of the profit for the financial year 2000 of each
in the consolidated profit and loss account by adjustment ofinterest
of Glaxo Wellcome plc and SmithKline Beecham plc wasdeemed
expense over the life of the agreement.
to relate to the period prior to the merger date.78 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
6 Segment information
An analysis of turnover, profit before taxation, total assets, net assets and tangible fixed assets by geographical and business segment
areset out below.The business segments consist of Pharmaceuticals (prescription pharmaceuticals and vaccines), Consumer Healthcare
(oralcare, OTC medicines and nutritional healthcare) and Healthcare Services (clinical laboratory testing and pharmacy benefit management).
Thegeographical segments reflect the Group’s most significant regional markets and are consistent with the Group’s regional market
management reportingstructure. Adjustments to the analysis of profit before tax by geographic segment in 2000 and 1999 have been made
to ensure consistency of treatment with 2001. Following the sale of Diversified Pharmaceutical Services and Clinical Laboratories in 1999, the
Healthcare Services segment no longer forms part of the ongoing business of the Group. Business segment data includes an allocation of
corporate costs to the segments; there are no intra-segment sales.
The Group’s activities are organised on a global basis. The geographical segmental figures are therefore influenced by the location of the
Group’s operating resources, in particular manufacture and research, and by variations over time in intra-group trading and funding
arrangements.
2001 2000 1999
Turnover by business sector £m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals 17,205 15,429 13,618
Consumer Healthcare 3,284 2,650 2,546
Healthcare Services – – 632
External turnover 20,489 18,079 16,796
Turnover by location of customer
USA 10,087 8,554 7,732
Europe 5,855 5,264 5,291
Rest of the World 4,547 4,261 3,773
External turnover 20,489 18,079 16,796
Profit before tax by business sector
Pharmaceuticals 4,302 4,316 3,938
Consumer Healthcare 432 413 410
Healthcare Services – – (5)
Operating profit 4,734 4,729 4,343
Share of profits/(losses) of joint ventures and associated undertakings 71 57 7
Profit on disposals of associates 96 144 39
Divestments (296) 1,402 9
Merger transaction costs – (121) –
Net interest payable (88) (182) (162)
Profit before taxation 4,517 6,029 4,236
Profit before taxation 4,517 6,029 4,236
Taxation (1,327) (1,699) (1,218)
Minority interests (97) (120) (110)
Preference share dividends (34) (56) (49)
Earnings 3,059 4,154 2,859
Total assets by business sector
Pharmaceuticals 18,069 19,403
Consumer Healthcare 3,848 2,187
Total assets 21,917 21,590
Net assets by business sector
Pharmaceuticals 6,700 7,739
Consumer Healthcare 1,679 1,216
Net assets 8,379 8,955
The Block Drug business has been integrated into the Consumer Healthcare segment during the year. The effect on the Group’s turnover
and the estimated effect on operating profit, together with the analysis of net assets acquired, are given in Note 31.Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 79
6 Segment informationcontinued
2001 2000 1999
Turnover by location of subsidiary undertaking £m £m £m
USA 10,517 8,850 7,967
Europe 10,704 9,970 9,592
Rest of the World 7,540 5,112 5,232
Gross turnover 28,761 23,932 22,791
USA (327) (297) (237)
Europe (4,372) (4,294) (3,933)
Rest of the World (3,573) (1,262) (1,825)
Inter-segment turnover (8,272) (5,853) (5,995)
USA 10,190 8,553 7,730
Europe 6,332 5,676 5,659
Rest of the World 3,967 3,850 3,407
External turnover 20,489 18,079 16,796
Profit before tax by location of subsidiary undertaking
USA 934 1,190 1,102
Europe 2,580 2,586 2,785
Rest of the World 1,220 953 456
Operating profit 4,734 4,729 4,343
Share of profits/(losses) of joint ventures and associated undertakings 71 57 7
Profit on disposals of associates 96 144 39
Divestments (296) 1,402 9
Merger transaction costs – (121) –
Net interest payable (88) (182) (162)
Profit before taxation 4,517 6,029 4,236
Profit before taxation 4,517 6,029 4,236
Taxation (1,327) (1,699) (1,218)
Minority interests (97) (120) (110)
Preference share dividends (34) (56) (49)
Earnings 3,059 4,154 2,859
Total assets by location of subsidiary undertaking
USA 5,267 4,616
Europe 10,618 10,167
Rest of the World 3,901 3,386
Total operating assets 19,786 18,169
Cash at bank and liquid investments 2,131 3,421
Total assets 21,917 21,590
Net assets by location of subsidiary undertaking
USA 1,079 573
Europe 6,829 6,287
Rest of the World 2,572 2,706
Net operating assets 10,480 9,566
Net debt (2,101) (611)
Net assets 8,379 8,95580 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
6 Segment informationcontinued At 31.12.01
Plant,
Land and equipment Computer Assets in
buildings and vehicles software construction Total
Tangible fixed assets by location of subsidiary undertaking £m £m £m £m £m
USA 746 448 23 319 1,536
Europe 1,425 1,811 174 728 4,138
Rest of the World 574 448 8 141 1,171
Total 2,745 2,707 205 1,188 6,845
UK segment
Information is given separately in respect of the UK, which, although included in the Group’s Europe market region, is considered the
Group’s home segment for the purposes of segmental reporting.
2001 2000 1999
£m £m £m
Turnover by location of customer 1,328 1,151 1,158
Gross turnover 5,388 3,306 3,437
Inter-segment turnover (3,753) (1,798) (1,939)
Turnover by location of subsidiary 1,635 1,508 1,498
Operating profit 1,772 1,665 2,127
Total assets 7,142 7,152
Net operating assets 4,813 4,425
7 Merger items, restructuring costs and divested businesses
Manufacturing and other restructuring costs were incurred by GlaxoSmithKline during 2001 in implementation of previously announced
plans for restructuring of manufacturing and other activities. These costs were also incurred by Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham
in 2000 and 1999.
Merger integration costs were incurred in 2001 and 2000 relating to the integration of Glaxo Wellcomeand SmithKline Beecham into a
unified GlaxoSmithKline business. These costs include consultancy fees in respect of integration planning, severance costs, asset write-offs,
costs related to the early vesting or lapse of performance conditions on share options and share incentive awards and costs of the
programme to encourage staff to convert Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham share options into GlaxoSmithKline share options.
Integration costs were incurred in 2001 relating to the integration of the Block Drug businesses. These costs include professional fees,
severance costs and asset write-offs. Product divestment income arises in 2000 from the disposal of Famvir, Kytrilandother products
required in order to obtain regulatory approval for the merger. Merger transaction costs were incurred in 2000 in order to effect the
merger. These costs comprise the fees and expenses incurred in preparing and implementing the scheme of arrangement for the merger.
The disposal of businesses in 2001 primarily arose on the sale of Affymax. It includes a £299 million write off of goodwill which was
previously eliminated against Group reserves. The disposal of businesses in 2000 and 1999 relates to the disposal of Healthcare Services
in 1999. Restructuring costs were incurred in Healthcare Services before its disposal.
The share of associate in 2000 and 1999 relates to restructuring costs incurred by Quest Diagnostics.
Restruc- Disposal of
Merger turing Block Drug subsidiaries Total
2001 £m £m £m £m £m
Manufacturing and other restructuring – (162) – – (162)
Merger integration costs (1,069) – – – (1,069)
Block Drug integration costs – – (125) – (125)
Effect on operating profit (1,069) (162) (125) – (1,356)
Disposal of businesses – – – (296) (296)
Effect on profit before tax (1,069) (162) (125) (296) (1,652)
Effect on taxation – operating items 353
Effect on taxation – non-operating items (33)
Effect on taxation 320
Effect on earnings (1,332)Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 81
7 Merger items, restructuring costs and divested businesses continued
Restruc- Disposal of
Merger turing Associate subsidiaries Total
2000 £m £m £m £m £m
Manufacturing and other restructuring – (171) – – (171)
Merger integration costs (400) – – – (400)
Effect on operating profit (400) (171) – – (571)
Share of associate – – (8) – (8)
Product divestments 1,416 – – – 1,416
Merger transaction costs (121) – – – (121)
Disposal of businesses:
Loss on disposal – – – (14) (14)
Effect on profit before tax 895 (171) (8) (14) 702
Effect on taxation – operating items 125
Effect on taxation – non-operating items (370)
Effect on taxation (245)
Effect on earnings 457
Restruc- Disposal of
turing Associate subsidiaries Total
1999 £m £m £m £m
Manufacturing and other restructuring (443) – – (443)
Healthcare Services restructuring – – (30) (30)
Effect on operating profit (443) – (30) (473)
Share of associate – (8) – (8)
Disposal of businesses:
Loss on disposal – – (635) (635)
Utilisation of provision – – 644 644
Effect on profit before tax (443) (8) (21) (472)
Effect on taxation – operating items 108
Effect on taxation – non-operating items 1
Effect on taxation 109
Effect on earnings (363)
8 Other operating income/(expense) 2001 2000 1999
£m £m £m
Royalties and other income 34 43 52
Other operating expense (126) (58) (129)
(92) (15) (77)
Income from equity investments and other disposals 129 289 490
37 274 413
Royalties and other income is principally a core of recurring income in the form of royalties from the out-licensing of intellectual property.
Other operating expense comprises non-recurring costs related to product liability claims and product withdrawals. Income from equity
investments and other disposals arises from equity investment sales and equity investment write-downs due to adverse market conditions,
product and property disposals. The analyses of other operating income/(expense) in 2000 and 1999 have been amended to follow these
classifications.82 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
9 Operating profit 2001 2000 1999
£m £m £m
The following items have been charged in operating profit:
Employee costs (Note 35) 4,686 4,487 4,134
Advertising 696 652 607
Distribution costs 272 260 236
Depreciation of tangible fixed assets:
Owned assets 758 733 648
Leased assets 3 2 2
Amortisation of goodwill 10 11 27
Amortisation of intangible fixed assets 40 27 28
Exchange losses/(gains) on foreign currency deposits/loans – 3 (13)
Operating lease rentals:
Plant and machinery 41 44 39
Land and buildings 70 70 77
Audit fees 7.2 6.3 6.5
Fees to auditors for other work:
Auditors’ UKfirm 13.1 9.4 5.2
Auditors’ overseas firms 22.6 15.3 8.9
Included within audit fees above is a fee of £10,000 (2000 – £10,000) relating to the company audit of GlaxoSmithKline plc.
Included within fees to the auditors for other work is £14.6 million (2000 – £4.4 million) relating to the merger of Glaxo Wellcome and
SmithKline Beecham. These fees relate to the many integration projects undertaken around the Group in 2001, particularly in human
resources, information technology and Global Manufacture and Supply. Fees to other persons for consultancy services amounted to
£265million in 2001.
10 Joint ventures and associated undertakings 2001 2000 1999
£m £m £m
Share of profits/(losses) of joint ventures – 1 (4)
Associated undertakings:
Share of profits of Quest Diagnostics Inc. 79 64 5
Share of (losses)/profits of other associated undertakings (1) (1) 18
Goodwill written off (7) (7) (12)
71 56 11
71 57 7
Share of turnover of joint ventures 8 8 7
Sales to joint ventures and associated undertakings 11 15 14
11 Net interest payable 2001 2000 1999
£m £m £m
Interest payable
On bank loans and overdrafts (26) (45) (53)
On other loans (169) (271) (240)
In respect of finance leases (3) (1) –
(198) (317) (293)
Share of interest payable of associate (19) (23) (7)
(217) (340) (300)
Investment income
Interest income 129 159 140
Provision for market value adjustments – (1) (2)
129 158 138
(88) (182) (162)Notes to the financial statements GlaxoSmithKline 83
12 Taxation
2001 2000 1999
Taxation charge based on profits for the period £m £m £m
UK corporation tax at the UK statutory rate 838 928 844
Less double taxation relief (351) (384) (355)
487 544 489
Overseas taxation 876 1,242 732
Deferred taxation (59) (103) (4)
1,304 1,683 1,217
Share of taxation charge of associates 23 16 1
1,327 1,699 1,218
2001 2000 1999
Reconciliation of the taxation rate % % %
UKstatutory rate of taxation 30.0 30.0 30.3
Deferred taxation not provided on fixed assets 0.1 (0.3) (0.1)
Effect of special taxation status in manufacturing locations (2.7) (3.6) (3.4)
Net cost of different rates of taxation in overseas undertakings 0.3 2.4 2.3
Share option deductions in the USA (0.8) (0.9) (0.7)
Tax losses and R&D credits not previously recognised (0.6) (1.2) (2.7)
Other differences 0.4 0.9 2.5
Taxation rate on business performance 26.7 27.3 28.2
Merger and restructuring costs 2.7 0.9 0.6
Taxation rate on total group results 29.4 28.2 28.8
Profits arising from manufacturing operations in Singapore, Puerto Rico and Ireland are taxed at reduced rates. The effect of this reduction
in the taxation charge increased earnings per share by 2.0p in 2001, by 3.6p in 2000, and by 2.3p in 1999.
The integrated nature of the Group’s worldwide operations, involving significant investment in research and strategic manufacture at a
limited number of locations, with consequential cross-border supply routes into numerous end-markets, gives rise to complexity and delay
in negotiations with revenue authorities as to the profits on which individual Group companies are liable to tax. Disagreements with, and
between, revenue authorities as to the price at which goods should be transferred between Group companies in different tax jurisdictions
can produce conflicting claims from revenue authorities as to the profits that fall to be taxed in individual territories. Resolution of such
issues is a continuing fact-of-life for GlaxoSmithKline.
In the USA, for a number of years, GlaxoSmithKline has had significant open issues relating to transfer pricing. These issues affect all years
from 1989 to the present and concern a number of products, although the most significant relates to the success of Zantac, in respect of
which the claims of the US Internal Revenue Service (IRS) substantially exceed the Group’s estimation of its taxation liabilities. The IRS
claims continue to be the subject of discussions between the US and UK tax authorities under the competent authority provisions of the
double tax convention between the two countries. Within these discussions there is a wide variation between the views of the US and UK
tax authorities and, exceptionally, they may be unable to reach agreement to settle the dispute. In the event of the UK and US tax
authorities not reaching agreement, the matter may have to be resolved by litigation.
GlaxoSmithKline uses the best advice in determining its transfer pricing methodology and in seeking to manage transfer pricing issues to a
satisfactory conclusion and, on the basis of external professional advice, continues to believe that it has made adequate provision for the
liabilities likely to arise from open assessments.
Save as shown in these accounts, no provision has been made for taxation which would arise on the distribution of profits retained by
overseas subsidiary and associated undertakings, on the grounds that no remittance of profit retained at 31st December 2001 is required
in such a way that incremental tax will arise.84 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
12 Taxation continued
Tax creditor Deferred tax
Tax balances £m £m
At 1st January 2001 (2,101) 889
Exchange adjustments (22) 16
Acquisition of subsidiary 4 –
(Charge)/credit to profit and loss account (1,363) 59
Cash paid 1,717 –
Other movements 93 (93)
At 31st December 2001 (1,672) 871
Full potential Provided
At 31.12.01 At 31.12.00 At 31.12.01 At 31.12.00
Deferred taxation asset/(liability) £m £m £m £m
Accelerated capital allowances (691) (619) (31) (11)
Stock valuation adjustment (113) (64) (113) (64)
Intra-Group profit 375 314 74 44
Product and business disposals (161) (61) (152) (61)
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits 298 300 298 300
Manufacturing restructuring 71 55 71 55
Tax losses 97 209 97 209
Other timing differences 868 634 627 417
744 768 871 889
Of the above categories of provided deferred taxation, stock valuation adjustments, intra-group profit and other timing differences
arecurrent.
13 Earnings per share 2001 2000 1999
p p p
Basic earnings per share 50.4 68.5 46.7
Adjustment for merger items, restructuring costs and disposal of subsidiaries:
Merger integration and transaction costs 13.0 6.8 –
Product divestments – (16.8) –
Restructuring costs 2.0 2.2 5.5
Block Drug integration costs 1.6 – –
Disposal of subsidiaries 5.4 0.2 0.4
Associates – 0.1 0.1
Adjusted earnings per share 72.4 61.0 52.7
Diluted earnings per share 50.0 67.7 46.3
Earnings per share has been calculated by dividing the profit attributable to shareholders by the weighted average number ofshares in
issue during the period. The numbers used in calculating basic and diluted earnings per share are reconciledbelow.
To illustrate business performance, which is the primary performance measure used by management, adjusted earnings and adjusted
earnings per share are presented after excluding merger items, integration and restructuring costs and disposals of subsidiaries.
Management believes that exclusion of these non-recurring items provides a better comparison of business performance for the periods
presented. Accordingly this information is provided as a supplement to that contained in the consolidated statement of profit and loss
on pages 68 and 69 prepared in accordance with UKGAAP. Basic and diluted earnings per share include these non-recurring items.
Net profit for the period attributable to shareholders £m £m £m
Earnings – basic and diluted 3,059 4,154 2,859
Adjustments for merger items, restructuring costs and disposal of subsidiaries 1,332 (457) 363
Adjusted earnings 4,391 3,697 3,222
Weighted average number of shares in issue millions millions millions
Basic and adjusted 6,064 6,065 6,118
Dilution for share options 52 69 53
Diluted 6,116 6,134 6,171
Shares held by the Employee Share Ownership Trusts are excluded.Notes to the financial statements GlaxoSmithKline 85
14 Dividends 2001
£m
GlaxoSmithKline plc:
First interim 546
Second interim 546
Third interim 546
Fourth interim 718
2,356
2000 1999
Glaxo Wellcome plc: £m £m
Interim 538 545
Second interim 827 –
Final – 796
1,365 1,341
SmithKline Beecham plc:
First interim 162 148
Second interim 162 148
Third interim 163 147
Fourth interim 245 221
732 664
2,097 2,005
Dividends are stated after deducting dividends receivable by the Trustees of Employee Share Ownership Plans Trusts, whereapplicable.
2001
Dividends per share p
GlaxoSmithKline plc:
First interim 9
Second interim 9
Third interim 9
Fourth interim 12
39
2000 1999
Glaxo Wellcome plc – per Glaxo Wellcome share: p p
Interim 15 15
Second interim 23 –
Final – 22
38 37
The equivalent dividend per GlaxoSmithKline share is the same as the dividend per Glaxo Wellcome share.
SmithKline Beecham plc – per SmithKline Beecham share:
First interim 3.0 2.7
Second interim 3.0 2.7
Third interim 3.0 2.7
Fourth interim 4.5 4.05
13.5 12.15
SmithKline Beecham plc – equivalent dividend per GlaxoSmithKline share:
First interim 6.59 5.93
Second interim 6.59 5.93
Third interim 6.59 5.93
Fourth interim 9.89 8.90
29.66 26.6986 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
15 Goodwill Total
£m
Cost at 1st January 2001 195
Exchange adjustments 2
Additions 13
Cost at 31st December 2001 210
Amortisation at 1st January 2001 (25)
Exchange adjustments (1)
Provision for the year (10)
Amortisation at 31st December 2001 (36)
Net book value at 1st January 2001 170
Net book value at 31st December 2001 174
Licences,
16 Intangible assets patents, etc. Brands Total
£m £m £m
Cost at 1st January 2001 424 655 1,079
Exchange adjustments (3) 8 5
Additions 196 – 196
Acquisition of subsidiary – 608 608
Disposals – (5) (5)
Assets written off (20) – (20)
Cost at 31st December 2001 597 1,266 1,863
Amortisation at 1st January 2001 (84) – (84)
Exchange adjustments 4 – 4
Provision for the year (40) – (40)
Assets written off 1 – 1
Amortisation at 31st December 2001 (119) – (119)
Impairment at 1st January 2001 (6) (23) (29)
Exchange adjustments – (1) (1)
Impairment loss (40) (1) (41)
Impairment at 31st December 2001 (46) (25) (71)
Net book value at 1st January 2001 334 632 966
Net book value at 31st December 2001 432 1,241 1,673
Brands largely comprise a portfolio of Sterling products such as Panadol, Solpadeineand Hedex and the newly acquired Block Drug
products such as Sensodyne, Polidentand Poligrip. Each of these is considered to have an indefinite life given the strength and durability
of the brand and the level of marketing support. Accordingly, they are not amortised. Thevaluation of each Sterling brand is reviewed
annually using a 10 year cash flow forecast as this was the basis for the original independent assessment when they were acquired in
1994. The impairment loss in 2001 has been calculated using a discount rate of ten per cent. The valuation of each Block Drug brand is
also being reviewed annually using a 10 year cash flow forecast and a discount rate of 17 per cent.Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 87
Plant,
Land and equipment Computer Assets in
17 Tangible fixed assets buildings and vehicles software construction Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Cost at 1st January 2001 3,758 6,526 318 953 11,555
Exchange adjustments (18) (17) – 3 (32)
Additions 71 350 12 680 1,113
Acquisition of subsidiary 11 127 – – 138
Disposals (48) (394) (49) (47) (538)
Reclassifications 129 229 19 (377) –
Cost at 31st December 2001 3,903 6,821 300 1,212 12,236
Depreciation at 1st January 2001 (937) (3,694) (89) – (4,720)
Exchange adjustments 10 9 – – 19
Provision for the year (127) (580) (54) – (761)
Disposals 43 263 48 – 354
Depreciation at 31st December 2001 (1,011) (4,002) (95) – (5,108)
Impairment at 1st January 2001 (108) (64) – (21) (193)
Impairment loss (44) (52) – (3) (99)
Disposals 5 4 – – 9
Impairment at 31st December 2001 (147) (112) – (24) (283)
Net book value at 1st January 2001 2,713 2,768 229 932 6,642
Net book value at 31st December 2001 2,745 2,707 205 1,188 6,845
The net book value at 31st December 2001 of the Group’s land and buildings comprises freehold properties £2,516 million
(at 1st January 2001 – £2,452million), properties with leases of 50 years or more £157million (at 1st January 2001 – £135million)
and properties with leases of less than 50 years £72 million (at 1stJanuary 2001 – £126million).
Included in plant, equipment and vehicles at 31st December 2001 are leased assets with a cost of £23 million
(at 1st January 2001 – £20 million), accumulated depreciation of £14 million (at 1st January 2001 – £4 million) and a net book value
of £9 million (at 1st January 2001 – £16 million).
The impairment loss principally relates to reductions in forecast cash flows resulting from decisions to close manufacturing facilities
andhasbeen measured by reference to value in use, using a discount rate of 10 per cent.
Joint Associated Equity Own
18 Fixed asset investments ventures undertakings investments shares Total
£m £m £m £m £m
At 1st January 2001 1 83 133 2,327 2,544
Exchange adjustments – 3 3 – 6
Additions 31 13 57 795 896
Charge for the year – – – 8 8
Impairment – – (15) – (15)
Transfer to current assets – – (30) – (30)
Reclassification – 13 (13) – –
Disposals – (11) (2) (194) (207)
Retained profit for the year – 33 – – 33
Goodwill amortisation – (7) – – (7)
At 31st December 2001 32 127 133 2,936 3,228
Investments in joint ventures comprise £33 million share of gross assets (2000 – £1 million) and £1 million share of gross liabilities
(2000 – £nil).
The principal associated undertaking is Quest Diagnostics, Inc., a US clinical laboratory business listed on the New York Stock Exchange
with a book value at 31st December 2001 of £98 million (2000 – £78 million) and a market value of £1,094 million (2000 – £1,200 million).
The Group owns 23percent of Quest (2000 – 27 per cent). The book value includes goodwill which is being amortised over 20 years; the
amortisation charge for 2001 was £7 million. The goodwill at 31st December 2001 amounts to £118 million (2000 – £137 million). Goodwill
of £127million which relates to the continuing Group interest in Clinical Laboratories assets attributed to Quest, remains eliminated against
Group reserves.
Equity investments comprise listed investments of £8million and unlisted investments of £125million. The market value of listed
investments was £8million.
Investments in own shares consist of shares held by Employee Share Ownership Trusts. Details are given in Note 33.88 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
19 Equity investments
£m
At 1st January 2001 171
Exchange adjustments 3
Additions 4
Transfer from fixed asset investments 30
Impairment (4)
Disposals (19)
At 31st December 2001 185
Equity investments comprise listed investments of £185 million (2000 – £162 million). Themarket value of listed investments was
£531 million (2000 – £851 million).
20 Stocks 2001 2000
£m £m
Raw materials and consumables 565 405
Work in progress 808 1,262
Finished goods 717 610
2,090 2,277
21 Debtors 2001 2000
£m £m
Amounts due within one year
Trade debtors 3,628 3,336
Other debtors 575 616
Prepaid pension contributions 11 1
Other prepayments and accrued income 177 197
Amounts due after one year
Other debtors 320 360
Prepayments and accrued income 9 –
Deferred taxation (Note 12) 871 889
5,591 5,399
Debtors include trading balances of £2 million (2000 – £nilmillion) due from joint ventures and associated undertakings.
22 Other creditors 2001 2000
£m £m
Amounts due within one year
Trade creditors 760 812
Taxation (Note 12) 1,672 2,061
Social security 123 77
Other creditors 345 465
Accruals and deferred income 3,142 2,146
Dividends proposed 1,264 1,242
7,306 6,803
Amounts due after one year
Taxation (Note 12) – 40
Other creditors 58 103
Accruals and deferred income 132 –
190 143
Creditors include trading balances of £nil (2000 – £1 million) due to joint ventures and associated undertakings.
Accruals include accruals for wages and salaries of £617 million (2000 – £252 million).Notes to the financial statements GlaxoSmithKline 89
23 Provisions for Pensions and other Indemnified Legal
post-retirement Manufacturing Merger disposal and other Other
liabilities and charges benefits restructuring integration liabilities disputes provisions Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1st January 2001 896 174 16 144 289 138 1,657
Exchange adjustments 17 (1) (2) 3 4 1 22
Charge for the year 150 29 554 (2) 50 6 787
Applied (82) (76) (327) (39) (135) (19) (678)
Acquisition of subsidiary 24 – – – – 1 25
Other movements 17 – (1) (7) 19 (31) (3)
At 31st December 2001 1,022 126 240 99 227 96 1,810
The Group has recognised costs in 2001 in respect of plans for manufacturing and other restructuring initiated in 1998, 1999 and in 2001
following the merger of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham and acquisition of Block Drug. These plans are to be implemented over
the period to 2004. Costs recognised as a provision, principally in respect of identified severances at sites where it has been announced
that manufacturing activities will cease, are expected to be incurred mainly between 2002 and 2004. Costs of asset write-downs have been
recognised as an impairment of fixed assets.
The Group has recognised costs in 2000 and 2001 in respect of plans for the integration of the Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham
businesses. Additional costs will be incurred as implementation of the integration following the merger continues. Costs recognised as a
provision, principally in respect of the programme to encourage staff to convert Glaxo Wellcome or SmithKline Beecham share options into
GlaxoSmithKline share options and in respect of identified severances, are expected to be incurred in 2002 and 2003.
The provision for indemnified disposal liabilities relates to indemnities granted to third parties in respect of operations disposed of in prior
years, including provisions, indemnities and purchase price adjustments in respect of the exit from the Healthcare Services businesses.
Provisions for legal and other disputes and other matters include amounts relating to US anti-trust, product liability, contract terminations,
self-insurance, environmental clean-up and property rental.
The amounts provided include the Directors’ best estimates of obligations arising from quantified and unquantified claims based on their
current knowledge and after taking appropriate legal advice. The outcome of all legal claims and other matters in which GlaxoSmithKline
is involved cannot be assured until a final judgement has been given or settlement reached. However, the Directors, having taken
appropriate legal advice, do not expect GlaxoSmithKline’s liability for such matters, after taking into account provisions, tax benefits
and insurance, to have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of its operations or cash flows.
GlaxoSmithKline is involved in a number of legal and other disputes (including notification of possible claims) where, because of the early
stage of the matter, no reliable estimate of the outcome can be made. Accordingly no provision has been recorded for these matters.
It is in the nature of the Group’s business that a number of these matters may be the subject of negotiation and litigation over several years.
The largest individual amounts provided are expected to be settled within one or two years.
For a discussion of litigation issues, refer to ‘Legal proceedings’ in Note 30.
24 Contingent liabilities
Contingent liabilities, comprising warranties, discounted bills, performance guarantees and other items arising in the normal course of
business, amounted at 31st December 2001 to £90million (2000 – £42 million).90 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
25 Net debt 2001 2000
£m £m
Liquid investments 1,415 2,138
Cash at bank 716 1,283
2,131 3,421
Loans and overdrafts due within one year:
Bank loans and overdrafts (307) (447)
Commercial paper (1,269) (1,599)
Eurobonds and Medium-Term notes (542) (221)
Obligations under finance leases (2) (2)
Other loans (4) (12)
(2,124) (2,281)
Loans due after one year:
Bank loans (11) (4)
Eurobonds and Medium-Term notes (2,059) (1,644)
Loan Stock (16) (18)
Obligations under finance leases (12) (14)
Other loans (10) (71)
(2,108) (1,751)
Net debt (2,101) (611)
At the balance sheet date the Group’s liquid investments had an aggregate market value of £1,418 million (2000 – £2,142million).
Loans and overdrafts due within one year
Commercial paper comprises a US$10 billion programme, of which £1,269million was in issue at 31st December 2001 (at 31st December
2000 – £1,599 million), backed up by committed facilities of 364 days duration of £968 million, renewable annually, and liquid investments
of £874 million.
The weighted average interest rate on commercial paper borrowings at 31st December 2001 was 2.1per cent. The weighted average
interest rate on other loans and overdrafts due within one year of 31st December 2001 was 6.1per cent.
Loans due after one year
In December 2001 a £1 billion fixed rate 5.25 per cent 32 year bond was issued under a new £5 billion European Medium Term programme.
Loans due after one year are repayable over various periods as follows:
2001 2000
£m £m
Between one and two years 11 646
Between two and three years 116 3
Between three and four years 140 144
Between four and five years 843 936
After five years 998 22
2,108 1,751
The loans repayable after five years carry interest at effective rates between 3.81 per cent and 5.25 per cent. The repayment dates range
from 2007 to 2033.Notes to the financial statements GlaxoSmithKline 91
25 Net debt continued
Secured loans
Loans amounting to £13 million (2000 – £45 million) are secured by charges on fixed and current assets.
2001 2000
Finance lease obligations £m £m
Rental payments due within one year 2 2
Rental payments due between one and two years 2 13
Rental payments due between two and three years 1 1
Rental payments due between three and four years 1 –
Rental payments due between four and five years 1 –
Rental payments due after five years 7 –
Total future rental payments 14 16
Future finance charges – –
Total finance lease obligations 14 16
Financial instruments
Further information is given in Note 32.
26 Commitments
2001 2000
Capital commitments £m £m
Contracted for but not provided in the accounts
Intangible fixed assets 1,103 546
Tangible fixed assets 298 312
Acquisition of Block Drug – 832
1,401 1,690
A number of commitments were made in 2001 under licensing and other agreements, principally with Shionogi, Neurocrine, Tanabe, Bayer
and Roche. Payments become due if future ‘milestones’ are achieved. As some of these agreements relate to compounds in the early
stages of development, milestone payments will continue for a number of years if the compounds move successfully through the
development process. Generally the closer the product is to marketing approval the greater the possibility of success.
2001 2000
Commitments under operating leases to pay rentals for the next year £m £m
Operating leases on land and buildings which expire:
In one year or less 5 8
Between one and five years 18 30
After five years 51 39
74 77
Operating leases on plant, equipment and vehicles which expire:
In one year or less 4 14
Between one and five years 27 38
31 52
Commitments under operating leases to pay rentals in future years
2002 105 129
2003 89 97
2004 79 75
2005 69 51
2006 59 43
2007 and thereafter 241 208
642 60392 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
Share
27 Share capital and share premium account Redeemable preference shares of £1 each Ordinary Shares of 25p each p are ccm oi uu nm t
Number £m Number £m £m
Share capital authorised
At 31st December 2000 50,000 – 9,999,800,000 2,500
At 31st December 2001 – – 10,000,000,000 2,500
Share capital issued and fully paid
Share capital issued prior to scheme of arrangement 50,000 – 8 – –
Share capital issued under scheme of arrangement – – 6,222,462,894 1,556 –
Share capital issued under share option schemes – – 3,199,272 – 30
At 31st December 2000 50,000 – 6,225,662,174 1,556 30
Share capital redeemed at par (50,000) – – – –
Share capital issued under share option schemes – – 17,878,815 4 140
Share capital purchased and cancelled – – (70,575,000) (17) –
At 31st December 2001 – – 6,172,965,989 1,543 170
Number (000)
Number of shares issuable under outstanding options (Note 33)
At 31st December 2000 66,706
At 31st December 2001 155,078
Number of unissued shares not under option
At 31st December 2000 3,707,432
At 31st December 2001 3,671,956
The redeemable preference shares were redeemed by the company on 31st August 2001.The nominal amount of these redeemable
preference shares was converted into 200,000 ordinary shares of 25 pence each resulting in authorised share capital at 31st December
2001 of 10 billion ordinary shares of 25 pence each.
On 23rd October 2001, GlaxoSmithKline announced plans to invest up to £4 billion buying its shares on the market. The programme
covers purchases by the company’s employee trusts relating to share option grants and other share based incentives. It also covers
purchases by the company of shares for cancellation and in total £2 billion was spent in 2001. The exact amount and timing of future
purchases will be determined by the company and is dependent on market conditions and other factors. As at 6th March 2002 a further
8,335,000 shares had been purchased and cancelled at a cost of £145 million.
For details of substantial shareholdings refer to Substantial shareholdings (page 147).
28 Non-equity minority interest
SB Holdings Corporation (SBH Corp), a subsidiary incorporated in Delaware, USA, has in issue $500 million of Flexible Auction Market
Preferred Stock (Flex AMPS), comprising 5,000 shares of $100,000 each, issued in six series. The dividend on half of these shares was fixed
on issuance in 1996 for a seven year period. The dividend on the other half was fixed for a five year period which ended during 2001 and
now varies, predominately with prevailing interest rates, and is set every seven weeks at an auction at which the shares are also traded.
SBH Corp also has in issue $400 million of Auction Rate Preference Stock (ARPS), comprising 4,000 shares of $100,000 each, issued in five
series, the dividend on which also varies under conditions similar to the Flex AMPS described above.
During February and March 2001 SmithKline Beecham Corporation (SB Corp), a subsidiary incorporated in Pennsylvania, USA, repaid $650
million of ARPS, comprising 1,300 shares of $500,000 each, issued in eight series.
Together, the ARPS and the Flex AMPS constitute the preference shares, which represent the non-equity minority interest.
SmithKline Beecham plc in certain circumstances guarantees payment of dividends declared on the preference shares. SmithKline Beecham
plc has also agreed with SBH Corp that in certain circumstances it will provide support to SBH Corp in relation to the principal. However,
any guarantee or support is limited so that in no circumstances could the holder of preference shares be in a more favourable position than
had they been a holder of a preference share in SmithKline Beecham plc. The preference shares represent a long-term non-equity minority
interest in the Group balance sheet in accordance with FRS 4 ‘Capital Instruments’.Notes to the financial statements GlaxoSmithKline 93
Other Profit and
29 Reserves reserves loss account Total
£m £m £m
At 31st December 1998 1,537 1,370 2,907
Goodwill written back – 335 335
Exchange movements – (267) (267)
UK tax on exchange movements – (44) (44)
Shares issued 164 – 164
Profit attributable to shareholders – 2,859 2,859
Dividends – (2,005) (2,005)
Revaluation of goodwill due to exchange – (34) (34)
At 31st December 1999 1,701 2,214 3,915
Goodwill written back – 2 2
Exchange movements – (23) (23)
UK tax on exchange movements – 16 16
Shares issued 148 – 148
Profit attributable to shareholders – 4,154 4,154
Dividends – (2,097) (2,097)
Revaluation of goodwill due to exchange – 10 10
At 31st December 2000 1,849 4,276 6,125
Goodwill written back – 356 356
Exchange movements – (151) (151)
Shares purchased for cancellation 17 (1,274) (1,257)
Profit attributable to shareholders – 3,059 3,059
Dividends – (2,356) (2,356)
Revaluation of goodwill due to exchange – 28 28
At 31st December 2001 1,866 3,938 5,804
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before 1st January 1998 which has been written off against other reserves amounts to £6,180million,
including goodwill of £4,840 million previously held as a goodwill reserve which was offset against other reserves in 1998. The goodwill
written back in 2001 relates primarily to the disposals of Affymax and part of the Group’s holding in Quest Diagnostics, Inc. Goodwill
denominated in local currencies which is subject to revaluation amounted to £297 million at 31st December 2001.
Goodwill on acquisitions after 1st January 1998 has been capitalised, in accordance with the accounting policy set out in Note 2.
Exchange movements taken to reserves in 2001 include losses of £114 million (2000 – losses £84 million, 1999 – gains £113 million) on
foreign currency loans less deposits, losses of £9 million (2000 – gains £71 million, 1999 – losses £414 million) on the retranslation of net
assets and losses of £28 million (2000 – losses £10 million, 1999 – gains £34 million) on goodwill eliminated against reserves.
Exchange adjustments debited to reserves amount cumulatively to £1,298 million.
Other reserves include the merger reserve created on the merger of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham amounting to £1,561 million
at 31st December 2001 (2000 – £1,561 million; 1999 – £1,413 million). Other reserves also include the capital redemption reserve created
as a result of the share buy-back programme amounting to £17 million at 31st December 2001 (2000 – £nil).
Total reserves amounted to £5,804 million at 31st December 2001 (2000 – £6,125 million; 1999 – £3,915 million), of which £718 million
(2000 – £nil; 1999 – £nil) relates to the company, £5,025 million (2000 – £6,097 million; 1999 – £3,893 million) relates to subsidiary
undertakings and £61 million (2000 – £28million; 1999 – £22 million) relates to joint ventures and associated undertakings.
The profit of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year was £4,331 million (6th December 1999 to 31st December 2000 – £nil), which after
dividends of £2,356 million (6th December 1999 to 31st December 2000 – £nil), gave a retained profit of £1,975 million (6th December
1999 to 31st December 2000 – £nil). After the cost of shares purchased for cancellation of £1,274 million (6th December 1999 to 31st
December 2000 – £nil) the profit and loss account reserve at 31st December 2001 stood at £701 million (2000 – £nil).94 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
30 Legal proceedings Marketing authorisations have also been issued in eight European
countries for products containing paroxetine hydrochloride
The Group is involved in various legal and administrative
anhydrate, another variant of the Group’s product. Generic products
proceedings considered normal to its business, principally
containing the anhydrate are now on the market in Germany,
intellectual property cases, product liability, and governmental
Austria and Denmark. GlaxoSmithKline believes that marketing of
investigations, the most significant of which are described below.
either a paroxetine hydrochloride anhydrate product or a paroxetine
mesylate product by third parties in European countries infringes its
Intellectual property
patents and is vigorously litigating its position in actions in many
In the USA a number of distributors of generic drugs have filed
European countries.
applications with the US Food and Drug Administration (‘FDA’) to
market generic versions of Paxil/Seroxat (paroxetine hydrochloride), In May 2001 Geneva Pharmaceuticals commenced an action in
prior to the expiration in 2006 of the Group’s patent on paroxetine theUS District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia over four
hydrochloride hemihydrate. In response, the Group has filed patents recently issued to GlaxoSmithKline covering clavulanic acid,
actions against all those distributors for infringement of various of a key ingredient in Augmentinand Timentin. Geneva has asked the
the Group’s patents. court to declare the new patents, which expire in 2017 and 2018,
invalid. In August Geneva extended its complaint to cover three
In July 1998 GlaxoSmithKline filed an action against Apotex in the
additional patents which expire in 2002. A hearing on Geneva’s
US District Court for the Northern District of Illinois for infringement
summary judgement motions challenging validity was concluded in
of one of the Group’s patents for paroxetine hydrochloride. Apotex
October 2001 but the trial judge has not yet issued a decision.
had filed an Abbreviated New Drug Application (‘ANDA’) with the
Geneva alleges in its suit that it is the holder of a pending ANDA
FDA seeking approval to introduce a generic form of Paxil. No trial
filed in February 2000 by another Novartis subsidiary. Discovery in
date has been set.
the case is continuing.
In June 1999 the Group filed an action against Geneva
In September 2001 Teva Pharmaceuticals filed a similar action
Pharmaceuticals, a subsidiary of Novartis Pharmaceuticals, in the
challenging the four recently issued patents and a patent expiring in
US District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania for
December 2002 that cover Augmentin. The Teva action has been
infringement of the Group’s patents for paroxetine hydrochloride
consolidated with the Geneva case. The court has set a May 2002
following notice of Geneva’s ANDA filing. That case has been
trial date for the consolidated action. At a December 2001 hearing
consolidated with similar infringement actions against other generic
on Teva’s motion for summary judgement the trial judge ruled from
companies that subsequently filed ANDAs. Additional infringement
the bench, holding that the patent expiring December 2002 is not
actions have been brought based on patents issued subsequent to
invalid but that the Group’s patent expiring in 2018 is invalid.
the original filing, and the cases have been consolidated. The Group
Teva has since filed a second motion for summary judgement of
also filed an action against Apotex relating to certain of those new
invalidity of the Group’s patents covering Augmentinwith expiry
patents in the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. The parties to this
dates in 2017. The Group continues to believe that the patents
consolidated action are seeking agreement on a discovery schedule.
expiring in 2017 and 2018 are valid and intends to appeal any
In March 2000 GlaxoSmithKline filed an action against Pentech in ruling to the contrary.
the US District Court for the Northern District of Illinois for
Five distributors of generic pharmaceutical products have filed
infringement of the Group’s patents for paroxetine hydrochloride.
ANDAs for sustained release bupropion hydrochloride tablets
Pentech filed an ANDA for a capsule version of Paxil, asserting that
(Wellbutrin SRand Zyban) in the USA, accompanied in each case
its compound and presentation do not infringe the Group’s patents
with a certification of invalidity of the Group’s patents. The Group
or that the patents are invalid. Even if the US FDA were to approve
has brought suit against each of the filing parties on grounds of
the Pentech ANDA, GlaxoSmithKline believes that the Pentech
patent infringement. The Group filed suit against ANDRx
capsule would not be substitutable for Paxiltablets. Discovery is
Pharmaceuticals, the first to file an ANDA, in the US District Court
continuing in this case.
for the Southern District of Florida. In February 2002 the District
In October 2000 GlaxoSmithKline filed an action against Synthon Court Judge granted ANDRx’s summary judgement motion and
in the US District Court for the Middle District of North Carolina for ruled that its product does not infringe the Group’s patents. The
infringement of the Group’s patents for paroxetine hydrochloride Group is appealing that decision. Actions have also been filed
and paroxetine mesylate. Synthon had filed a 505(b)(2) application against Watson Pharmaceuticals in the US District Court for the
(a ‘paper NDA’) with the US FDA using paroxetine mesylate, a Southern District of Ohio, Eon Labs Manufacturing in the US
different salt form of paroxetine than that used in the marketed District Court for the Eastern District of New York, Impax
form of Paxil. Even if the US FDA approves the Synthon application, Laboratories in the US District Court for the Northern District of
GlaxoSmithKline believes the Synthon compound would not be California and Excel in the US District Court for the New Jersey
substitutable for Paxil. No trial date has been set. District. The Watson case has been settled. All the remaining
cases are still intheir early stages.
Following the expiration of the data exclusivity period in Europe,
a marketing authorisation was issued to Synthon by regulatory The Group filed an action for infringement of its patents for
authorities in Denmark for paroxetine mesylate, a different salt cefuroxime axetil, the active ingredient in the Group’s Ceftinanti-
form of paroxetine hydrochloride than that used in the marketed infective product, against Ranbaxy Pharmaceuticals in the US
form of Seroxat/Paxil. Authorisations have been granted in six District Court for New Jersey. A preliminary injunction was granted
other European countries under the mutual recognition process in favour of GlaxoSmithKline. In August 2001 the US Court of
and are under assessment in others. The Group has initiated Appeals vacated that injunction and remanded the case to the
litigation challenging the approval by the Danish Medicines Agency District Court for a full trial on the merits. In January 2002
on grounds than an authorisation should not have been granted Ranbaxy announced that the US FDA has approved Ranbaxy’s
under the abridged procedure as paroxetine mesylate is not application for its generic version.
essentially similar to Seroxat.Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 95
30 Legal proceedings continued Since the PPA product withdrawal the Group has received numerous
personal injury and class action lawsuits filed in state and federal
The Group has filed a similar action against Apotex, a second
courts alleging personal injury or increased risk of injury from use of
distributor of generic pharmaceutical products, in the US District
products containing PPA and unfair and deceptive business practices.
Court for the Northern District of Illinois. That case is still in its
Plaintiffs seek remedies including compensatory and punitive
earlystages.
damages, medical monitoring and refunds. The federal cases have
In August 2001 the Group commenced an action in the US District been consolidated in a multidistrict litigation proceeding in the US
Court for New Jersey against Reddy-Cheminor and Dr. Reddy’s District Court for the District of Washington. The lawsuits are in
Laboratories, alleging infringement of three patents for their early stages and there has been no determination as to whether
ondansetron, the active ingredient in Zofrantablets. The any of the lawsuits will be permitted to proceed as class actions.
defendants have filed an ANDA with the US Food and Drug
In August 2001 Bayer AG withdrew Baycol(cerivastatin sodium)
Administration. FDA approval of that ANDA is stayed until the
worldwide in light of reports of adverse events, including deaths,
earlier of January 2004 or resolution of the patent infringement
involving rhadomyolysis. GlaxoSmithKline had participated in the
litigation. The case is still in its early stages.
marketing of Baycolin the USA pursuant to a co-promotion
agreement with Bayer which was the licence holder and
Product liability
manufacturer of the product. Following the withdrawal, Bayer and
In 1997 the US Food and Drug Administration became aware
GlaxoSmithKline have received numerous lawsuits filed in state and
of reports of cardiac valvular problems in individuals for whom
federal courts in the USA on behalf of both individual and putative
fenfluramine or dexfenfluramine alone or in combination with
classes of former Baycolusers. A number of the suits allege that
phentermine was prescribed as part of a regimen of weight
the plaintiffs suffered personal injuries, including rhadomyolysis,
reduction and requested the voluntary withdrawal of fenfluramine
from the use of Baycol. Others claim that persons who took Baycol,
and dexfenfluramine from the market. The reports of cardiac
although not injured, may be at risk of future injury or may have
valvular problems and the subsequent withdrawal of those products
suffered economic damages from purchasing and using Baycol.
from the market spawned numerous product liability lawsuits filed
Plaintiffs seek remedies including compensatory, punitive and
against the manufacturers and distributors of fenfluramine,
statutory damages and creation of funds for medical monitoring.
dexfenfluramine and phentermine. As one of a number of
The federal cases have been consolidated in a multidistrict litigation
manufacturers of phentermine, the Group is a defendant in
proceeding in the US District Court for the District of Minnesota.
numerous lawsuits in various state and federal district courts in the
The lawsuits are in their very early stages and there has been no
USA, many of which have been filed as class actions. Most of the
determination as to whether any of the lawsuits will be permitted
lawsuits seek relief including some combination of compensatory
to proceed as class actions.
and punitive damages, medical monitoring, and refunds for
purchases of drugs. In 1997 the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Following the voluntary withdrawal of Lotronexin the USA in
Litigation issued an order consolidating and transferring all federal November 2000, a number of lawsuits have been filed against the
actions to the District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. Group in state and federal district courts, including individual
That court approved a global settlement proposed by defendant personal injury actions and purported class actions asserting product
Wyeth, which sold fenfluramine and dexfenfluramine. The liability and consumer fraud claims. Plaintiffs seek remedies
settlement, subsequently confirmed by the Third Circuit Court of including compensatory, punitive and statutory damages. Most of
Appeals, does not include any of the phentermine defendants, those actions are at their early stages although tentative trial dates
including the Group. Individual plaintiffs may elect to opt out of for some cases have been set for 2002.
the class settlement and pursue their claims individually. Wyeth
GlaxoSmithKline, along with a number of other pharmaceutical
continues to settle individual state court cases before trial and the
companies, has been named as a defendant in a number of
Group continues to be dismissed from lawsuits as they are settled
purported class action and individual personal injury lawsuits in
by Wyeth.
state and federal district courts in the USA alleging that thimerosal,
GlaxoSmithKline has received purported class action and other a preservative used in vaccines, causes neurodevelopmental
lawsuits filed in state and federal courts in the USA alleging that disorders and other injuries. Plaintiffs seek remedies including
paroxetine (the active ingredient in Paxil) is addictive and causes compensatory, punitive and statutory damages and the cost of a
dependency and withdrawal reactions. Plaintiffs seek remedies fund for medical monitoring and research. The lawsuits are in their
including compensatory and punitive damages and the cost of a very early stages and there has been no determination as to
fund for medical monitoring. The lawsuits are in their early stages whether any of the purported class actions will be permitted to
and there has been no determination as to whether any of the proceed as class actions.
lawsuits will be permitted to proceed as class actions.
Government investigations
In the last decade there has been litigation against the
GlaxoSmithKline has received subpoenas from the US Attorney’s
manufacturers of Prozac and other SSRI products for homicidal or
office in Boston, Massachusetts, requesting production of
suicidal behaviour exhibited by users of their products. The Group
documents for the period from 1991 to the present relating to any
has received some such claims and lawsuits with respect to Paxil.
repackaging, relabelling or private label arrangements that
None of these are or purport to be class actions.
GlaxoSmithKline has had or discussed with third-party customers
Following a report from the Yale Haemorrhagic Stroke Project that during such period. At issue in this civil and criminal investigation is
suggested an association between first use of phenylpropanolamine whether the prices charged to such third parties for GlaxoSmithKline
(‘PPA’) decongestant and haemorrhagic stroke, the Group and most products must be counted for Medicaid ‘best price’ purposes. The
other manufacturers voluntarily withdrew consumer healthcare Group is providing documents in response to the subpoenas.
products in which PPA was an active ingredient.96 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
30 Legal proceedings continued Following the District Court decision, antitrust claims alleging
GlaxoSmithKline has also received letters from the Centers for competitive injury and overcharges have been filed by Teva
Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) stating CMS’s position that Pharmaceuticals, a generic manufacturer of nabumetone, and
certain of those prices should have been included in Medicaid purported classes of direct purchasers and payers, respectively,
‘best price’ and requesting that GlaxoSmithKline retroactively resulting from alleged fraudulent procurement of a patent,
adjust its ‘best price’ reports for quarters prior to July 2000 to wrongful listing of the patent in the FDA Orange Book and
include those prices. prosecution of sham patent infringement litigation. Those cases,
filed in US District Courts for the District of Massachusetts and the
GlaxoSmithKline is responding to subpoenas from the Office of the
Eastern District of Pennsylvania between December 2001 and
Inspector General of the US Department of Health and Human
January 2002, are in their early stages.
Services, the US Department of Justice and the states of Texas and
California in connection with allegations that pharmaceutical
Commercial matters
companies, including GlaxoSmithKline, have violated federal fraud
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. initiated arbitration proceedings
and abuse laws such as the Federal False Claims Act (and, with
in December 2001 concerning the Group’s unilateral withdrawal
respect to Texas and California, comparable state laws) as a result
of grepafloxacin (Raxar/Vaxar) in October 1999 for safety reasons.
ofthe way certain drugs are priced and the way the Medicare and
Otsuka alleges that the product withdrawal and simultaneous public
Medicaid programmes reimburse for those drugs. In the first
announcement constituted material breaches of the licence and
quarter of 2002 the Nevada and Montana state attorneys general
supply agreements. The Group believes the underlying product
each filed a civil lawsuit in state court against GlaxoSmithKline and
withdrawal was consistent with the terms of the agreements and
several other drug companies. Each action claims – on behalf of
that valid defences exist to the claims. An answer will be served
the state as a payer and on behalf of in-state patients as consumers
during the first quarter of 2002.
– damages and restitution based on defendants’ pricing for an
undefined set of pharmaceutical products. In addition private
SBCL indemnities
payer class action lawsuits have been filed against GlaxoSmithKline
In connection with the sale of SmithKline Beecham Clinical
in several federal district courts. Those actions are all in very
Laboratories (SBCL) to Quest Diagnostics, Inc., the Group has
early stages.
agreed to indemnify Quest Diagnostics, on an after-tax basis, with
In November 2000 the US Federal Trade Commission staff advised respect to certain liabilities arising from the conduct of the SBCL
the Group that the staff was conducting a non-public investigation business prior to closing, including governmental and private claims
to determine whether the Group was violating Section 5 of the arising from the US government’s investigation into SBCL’s billing
Federal Trade Commission Act by ‘monopolizing or attempting to and marketing practices.
monopolize the market for paroxetine hydrochloride by preventing
generic competition to Paxiland requested the Group to submit Environmental matters
certain information in connection with that investigation. The GlaxoSmithKline has been notified of its potential responsibility
Group has cooperated with the staff’s investigation. relating to past operations and its past waste disposal practices at
certain sites, primarily in the USA. Some of these matters are the
Following public reference to the FTC investigation, four purported
subject of litigation, including proceedings initiated by the US
consumer class actions have been filed alleging that the Group has
federal or state governments for waste disposal site remediation
monopolised the market for Paxil. Treble damages are sought for
costs and tort actions brought by private parties. GlaxoSmithKline
alleged overcharges flowing from the conduct. The cases are at
has been advised that it may be a responsible party at
an early stage with no determination as to whether they will be
approximately 25 sites, of which 13 appear on the National Priority
permitted to proceed as class actions.
List created by the Comprehensive Environmental Response
Compensation and Liability Act (“Superfund”).
Antitrust
Through the US pharmaceutical businesses of both SmithKline These proceedings seek to require the operators of hazardous waste
Beecham and Glaxo Wellcome, the Group is party to a number of facilities, transporters of waste to the sites and generators of
antitrust suits, certain of which have been certified as class actions, hazardous waste disposed of at the sites to clean up the sites or to
instituted by most of the nation’s retail pharmacies and consumers reimburse the government for cleanup costs. In most instances,
in several states, alleging conspiracies in restraint of trade and GlaxoSmithKline is involved as an alleged generator of hazardous
challenging the pricing practices of the Group. A significant waste although there are a few sites where GlaxoSmithKline is
number of other pharmaceutical companies and wholesalers have involved as a current or former operator of the facility. Although
also been sued in the same or similar litigation. These actions, Superfund provides that the defendants are jointly and severally
except for several actions pending in state courts, were consolidated liable for cleanup costs, these proceedings are frequently resolved
for pre-trial purposes in the US District Court for the Northern on the basis of the nature and quantity of waste disposed of at the
District of Illinois. The federal class action component, which site by the generator. GlaxoSmithKline’s proportionate liability for
includes pharmacies representing approximately two-thirds of total cleanup costs has been substantially determined for about 20 of the
US retail sales volume, was settled by both Glaxo Wellcome and sites referred to above.
SmithKline Beecham in 1996. Since that time, the Group has
GlaxoSmithKline’s potential liability varies greatly from site to site.
entered into other settlements on satisfactory terms. The Group
While the cost of investigation, study and remediation at such sites
has not engaged in any conspiracy and no admission of wrongdoing
could, over time, be substantial, GlaxoSmithKline routinely accrues
was made nor was included in the final agreements.
amounts related to its share of liability for such matters.
In August 2001 the US District Court for the District of
Massachusetts ruled the Group’s patent for nabumetone (Relafen) Tax matters
invalid for anticipatory art and inequitable conduct. The Group filed Pending tax matters are described in Note 12.
its appeal from that decision in November 2001.Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 97
31 Acquisitions and disposals
Details of the acquisition and disposal of subsidiary and associated undertakings and joint ventures are given below.
2001 Book Fair value Net assets Goodwill Cost of
values adjustments acquired capitalised acquisition
Acquisitions £m £m £m £m £m
Block Drug 491 352 843 – 843
Shionogi joint venture 31 – 31 – 31
Other 13 (8) 5 13 18
535 344 879 13 892
Block Drug Company, Inc.
In January 2001 the Group acquired Block Drug for a cash consideration of £843 million. The net assets of Block Drug have been
incorporated in the accounts at their fair value, as follows:
Book Fair value Net assets
value adjustments acquired
£m £m £m
Intangible fixed assets – 608 608
Goodwill 176 (176) –
Tangible fixed assets 148 (10) 138
Net current assets 182 (59) 123
Provisions (15) (11) (26)
491 352 843
The fair value adjustment to intangible fixed assets of £608 million reflects the capitalisation of brands.
The Block Drug business has been integrated into the Group during 2001 and so it is not possible to separately identify its post-acquisition
cash flows. Turnover and cost of sales of Block Drug products, together with estimated SG&A and R&D expenditure are as follows:
£m
Turnover 594
Cost of sales (179)
Gross profit 415
Selling, general and administrative expenditure (268)
Research and development expenditure (16)
Operating profit 131
Shionogi joint venture
During 2001 the Group established a joint venture with Shionogi to develop and commercialise a number of compounds contributed by
both parties. The Group acquired 50 per cent of the equity share capital for a cash consideration of £31 million, and has committed to
make further contributions if certain development milestones are achieved.
Disposals
Quest Diagnostics, Inc.
In May 2001 the Group disposed of 1.5 million shares from its investment in Quest Diagnostics, Inc. for cash proceeds of £124 million,
reducing the Group’s holding at 31st December 2001 to 23 per cent. After recognising a charge for goodwill previously written off to
reserves of £17million a profit of £96 million was recognised.
Affymax
During 2001 the Group completed the sale of the Affymax business to Affymax Inc., a new holding company, for 2.3 million non-voting
preference shares in Affymax Inc. representing a value of $19.6 million (£13.6 million). After recognising a charge for goodwill previously
written off to reserves of £299 million a loss of £301 million was made. Disposal costs of £5 million were incurred in completing the sale.
Tagamet
In February 2001 the Group sold Tagamet in Japan to Sumitomo Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. for a cash consideration of £71 million. After
recognising a charge for goodwill previously written off to reserves of £72 million a loss of £1 million was recognised.
Quest
Diagnostics Affymax Tagamet Block Drug Shionogi Other Total
Cash flows £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cash consideration paid – – – 843 31 18 892
Cash acquired – – – (45) – – (45)
Net cash payment on acquisitions – – – 798 31 18 847
Net cash proceeds from disposals 124 (5) 71 – – – 19098 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
31 Acquisitions and disposals continued
2000 Book Fair value Net assets Goodwill Cost of
values adjustments acquired capitalised acquisition
Acquisitions £m £m £m £m £m
Glaxo Wellcome SA 7 – 7 16 23
Acquisition of other minority interests 2 – 2 – 2
9 – 9 16 25
Glaxo Wellcome SA
During 2000 the Group acquired a further 8.7 per cent of the Glaxo Wellcome SA (formerly Polfa Poznan SA) in Poland for a cash
consideration of £23 million. Goodwill of £16 million was capitalised and is being amortised in line with the initial acquisition in 1998.
Disposals
Affymetrix, Inc.
In May 2000 the Group sold two million shares in Affymetrix, Inc. for cash proceeds of £155 million, realising a profit of £144 million.
SB Clinical Laboratories
A final cash settlement of US$95 million (£62 million) was paid in October 2000 to complete the sale of SB Clinical Laboratories.
SB Clinical Glaxo
Laboratories Affymetrix Wellcome SA Other Total
Cash flows £m £m £m £m £m
Cash consideration paid – – 23 2 25
Cash acquired – – – – –
Net cash payment on acquisitions – – 23 2 25
Net cash proceeds from disposals (62) 155 – – 93
1999 Book Fair value Net assets Cost of
values adjustments acquired Goodwill acquisition
Acquisitions £m £m £m £m £m
Amoun Pharmaceuticals Industries Co SAE 11 – 11 61 72
Glaxo Wellcome KK 3 – 3 (3) –
Quest Diagnostics, Incorporated (64) – (64) 268 204
(50) – (50) 326 276
Amoun Pharmaceuticals Industries Co SAE (APIC)
Glaxo Wellcome Egypt acquired 99.5 per cent of APIC for £72 million in cash with goodwill of £61 million capitalised.
Glaxo Wellcome KK
The Group completed the merger of Nippon Glaxo Limited and Nippon Wellcome KK (NW) to form Glaxo Wellcome KK.
Quest Diagnostics, Inc.
The Group acquired a 29.2 per cent equity interest in Quest as part consideration for the disposal of SB Clinical Laboratories. Of the
£268million goodwill arising, £131 million remained eliminated against reserves and £137 million was capitalised.
Disposals
Diversified Pharmaceutical Services (DPS)
The Group sold DPS for £440 million realising a loss of £635 million for which a provision of £629 million had been made in 1998.
SB Clinical Laboratories
The Group sold SB Clinical Laboratories to Quest for £636 million in cash and an equity interest in Quest valued at £204 million. After costs
of £81million and goodwill written back from reserves of £316 million, no profit or loss was made on the transaction.
Affymetrix, Inc.
The Group sold one million shares in Affymetrix, Inc. for cash proceeds of £41 million, realising a profit of £39million.
SB Clinical
Laboratories DPS Affymetrix APIC Total
Cash flows £m £m £m £m £m
Cash consideration paid – – – 72 72
Cash acquired – – – (5) (5)
Net cash payment on acquisitions – – – 67 67
Net cash proceeds from disposals 599 403 41 – 1,043Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 99
32 Financial instruments and related disclosures Fair value of financial assets and liabilities
The table on page 100 presents the carrying amounts under UK
Policies
GAAP and the fair values of the Group’s financial assets and
Discussion of the Group’s objectives and policies for the
liabilities at 31st December 2001 and 31st December 2000. Debtors
management offinancial instruments and associated risks is
and creditors due within one year have been excluded.
included under Treasury Policies in the Financial Review (page 54).
The fair values of the financial assets and liabilities are included
Investments atthe amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a
The Group holds a number of equity investments, frequently in current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced
entities where the Group has entered into research collaborations. or liquidationsale. The following methods and assumptions were
The Group seeks to realise the value in these investments, which used to estimate thefair values:
inpart the research collaboration helps to create, and therefore
• Equity investments – market value based on quoted market
certain of these investments are regarded as available for sale and
prices in the case of listed investments; market value by
are accounted foras current asset investments. For the purposes
reference to quoted prices in the case of material unlisted
ofUSGAAP all the investments are classified as available for sale.
investments
The Group has liquid investments, representing funds surplus to • Cash at bank – approximates to the carrying amount
immediate operating requirements, which are accounted for as • Liquid investments – based on quoted market prices in the case
current asset investments. For the purposes of USGAAP the of marketable securities; approximates to the carrying amount
investments are classified as available for sale. inthe case of time deposits because of their short maturity
• Short-term loans and overdrafts – approximates to the carrying
The proceeds from sale of investments classified as available for
amount because of the short maturity of these instruments
sale(under US GAAP) in the year ended 31stDecember 2001
• Medium-term loans – market value based on quoted market
were£1,119million. The proceeds include the roll-over of liquid
prices in the case of the Eurobonds and other fixed rate
funds on short-term deposit. The gross gains and losses reflected in
borrowings; approximates to the carrying amount in the case
the consolidated profit and loss account in respect of investments
offloating rate bank loans and other loans
classified as available for sale (under US GAAP) were £114million
• Forward exchange contracts – based on market prices and
and£3 million,respectively.
exchange rates at the balance sheet date
• Currency swaps – based on market valuations at the balance
Foreign exchange risk management
sheetdate
The Group has entered into forward foreign exchange contracts
• Interest rate instruments – based on market valuations at the
inorder to swap liquid assets and borrowings into the currencies
balance sheet date
required for Group purposes. At 31st December 2001 the
• Debtors and creditors – approximates to the carrying amount
Group had outstanding contracts to sell or purchase foreign
• Provisions – approximates to the carrying amount.
currency having a total notional principal amount of £7,312million
(at 31stDecember 2000 – £10,531 million). The majority of
Fair value of investments in own shares
contracts are for periods of 12 months or less.
The Group had at 31st December 2001 investments in own shares
At the end of the year the Group had a number of currency swaps of £2,936million (2000 – £2,327million) with a fair value of
inplace in respect of medium-term debt instruments. £3,229million (2000 – £3,049million). The difference between the
carrying amount and the fair value represents gross unrealised gains
Borrowings denominated in, or swapped into, foreign currencies
of £293million. These investments are excluded from financial
which match investments in overseas Group assets are treated as
instrument disclosure. The fair value is the market value based on
ahedge against the relevant net assets and exchange gains or
quoted market price.
losses are recorded in reserves.
The shares represent purchases by employee share ownership trusts
Interest rate risk management to satisfy future exercises of options and awards under employee
To manage the fixed/floating interest rate profile of debt, the Group incentive schemes. The purchases are matched against options at
had several interest rate swaps outstanding with commercial banks pre-determined exercise prices and the gain or loss to be recognised
at 31st December 2001. is measured against exercise price rather than market value.
Concentrations of credit risk and credit exposures of
financialinstruments
The Group does not believe it is exposed to major concentrations of
credit risk. The Group is exposed to credit-related losses in the event
of non-performance by counterparties to financial instruments, but
does not expect any counterparties to fail to meet their obligations.
The Group applies Board-approved limits to the amount of credit
exposure to any one counterparty and employs strict minimum
credit worthiness criteria as to the choice of counterparty.100 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
32 Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Classification and fair values of financial assets and liabilities
The following table sets out the classification of financial assets and liabilities and provides a reconciliation to Group net debt in Note 25.
Short-term debtors and creditors have been excluded from financial assets and liabilities. Provisions have been included where there is a
contractual obligation to settle in cash.
At 31.12.01 At 31.12.00
Carrying Fair Carrying Fair
amount value amount value
£m £m £m £m
Net debt
Liquid investments 1,415 1,418 2,138 2,142
Cash at bank 716 716 1,283 1,283
Current asset financial instruments 2,131 2,134 3,421 3,425
Sterling notes and bonds (1,471) (1,534) (516) (571)
(1,471) (1,534) (516) (571)
US dollar notes and bonds (729) (752) (334) (335)
Notes and bonds swapped into US dollars (61) (53) (656) (673)
Currency swaps – (8) – 17
(790) (813) (990) (991)
Notes and bonds swapped into Yen (340) (346) (377) (335)
Currency swaps – 18 – (24)
(340) (328) (377) (359)
Other medium-term borrowings (49) (49) (89) (89)
Other short-term loans and overdrafts (1,582) (1,582) (2,060) (2,060)
Total borrowings (4,232) (4,306) (4,032) (4,070)
Interest rate swaps – 10 – –
Forward exchange contracts to purchase – – – 4
Forward exchange contracts to sell – – – 52
Total derivative instruments for management of net debt – 10 – 56
Total net debt (2,101) (2,162) (611) (589)
Fixed asset equity investments 133 133 133 164
Current asset equity investments 185 531 171 860
Other debtors due after 1 year 329 329 360 360
Other creditors due after 1 year (110) (110) (103) (103)
Provisions (105) (105) (209) (209)
Other foreign exchange derivatives (6) 1 24 9
Auction rate preference shares of subsidiary – – (436) (436)
Money market preference shares of subsidiary (276) (276) (269) (269)
Flexible auction rate preference shares of subsidiary (345) (355) (334) (342)
Total non-equity minority interest (621) (631) (1,039) (1,047)
Total financial assets and liabilities (2,296) (2,014) (1,274) (555)
Total financial assets 2,778 3,138 4,109 4,874
Total financial liabilities (5,074) (5,152) (5,383) (5,429)
Currency swaps have been presented alongside the underlying principal instrument. The carrying amounts of these instruments have been
adjusted for the effect of the currency swaps acting as hedges.
The difference between the carrying amount and the fair value of equity (fixed and current assets) and liquid investments represents gross
unrealised gains of £346 million and £3million, respectively.Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 101
32 Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Currency and interest rate risk profile of financial liabilities
Financial liabilities, after taking account of currency and interest rate swaps, are analysed below.
Total financial liabilities comprise total borrowings of £4,232 million (2000 – £4,032 million), other creditors due after one year of
£110million (2000– £103million), provisions of £105million (2000 – £209 million) and non-equity minority interest preference shares
of£621million (2000 – £1,039 million) but exclude foreign exchange derivatives of £6 million (2000 – £nil). Creditors due within one year
have been excluded.
The benchmark rate for determining interest payments for all floating rate financial liabilities in the tables below is LIBOR.
Fixed rate Non-interest bearing
Average Average
At 31st December 2001 interest years for Floating Average
rate which rate rate years to Total
Currency £m % is fixed £m £m maturity £m
US dollars 516 6.1 3.2 2,291 131 1.2 2,938
Sterling 1,471 6.5 22.5 45 25 1.3 1,541
Euro 4 7.9 1.0 45 19 0.4 68
Japanese Yen 340 0.5 1.4 3 1 15.0 344
Other currencies – – – 134 43 0.2 177
2,331 5.5 15.1 2,518 219 1.0 5,068
Fixed rate Non-interest bearing
Average Average
At 31st December 2000 interest years for Floating Average
rate which rate rate years to Total
Currency £m % is fixed £m £m maturity £m
US dollars 668 6.1 3.2 2,486 266 2.4 3,420
Sterling 498 8.8 4.9 – 23 2.9 521
Euro 3 5.3 0.4 425 10 2.5 438
Japanese Yen 494 0.6 2.3 211 35 3.5 740
Other currencies 46 9.5 2.4 209 9 1.1 264
1,709 5.4 3.4 3,331 343 2.5 5,383
Currency and interest rate risk profile of financial assets
Total financial assets comprise fixed asset equity investments of £133million (2000 – £133 million), current asset equity investments
of £185million (2000 – £171 million), liquid investments of £1,415million (2000 – £2,138 million), cash at bank of £716million
(2000 – £1,283 million), and debtors due after one year of £329million (2000 – £360 million) but exclude foreign exchange derivatives of
£nil (2000 – £24 million). Debtors due within one year have been excluded.
At 31st December 2001 Fixed Floating Non-interest
rate rate bearing Total
Currency £m £m £m £m
US dollars 404 1,050 406 1,860
Sterling 18 17 66 101
Euro 60 168 96 324
Japanese Yen 7 14 19 40
Other currencies 173 254 26 453
662 1,503 613 2,778
At 31st December 2000 Fixed Floating Non-interest
rate rate bearing Total
Currency £m £m £m £m
US dollars 354 1,588 360 2,302
Sterling 58 1,108 48 1,214
Euro 84 147 53 284
Japanese Yen 3 – 13 16
Other currencies 66 165 38 269
565 3,008 512 4,085102 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
32 Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Currency exposure of net monetary assets/(liabilities)
The Group’s currency exposures that give rise to net currency gains and losses that are recognised in the profit and loss account arise
principally in companies with sterling functional currency. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in overseas functional currency,
andborrowings designated as a hedge against overseas net assets, are excluded from the table below.
At 31stDecember 2001
Functional currency of Group operation
Net monetary assets/(liabilities)
Sterling US$ Euro Yen Other Total
held in non-functional currency £m £m £m £m £m £m
Sterling – (80) 5 (1) (10) (86)
US dollars 329 – 85 – 63 477
Euro 147 7 – – (1) 153
Japanese Yen 13 – (2) – – 11
Other 88 3 1 – – 92
577 (70) 89 (1) 52 647
At 31stDecember 2000
Functional currency of Group operation
Net monetary assets/(liabilities)
Sterling US$ Euro Yen Other Total
held in non-functional currency £m £m £m £m £m £m
Sterling – (50) (50) (1) (30) (131)
US dollars 170 – 3 (1) 19 191
Euro 7 10 – – 2 19
Japanese Yen (27) 1 (1) – – (27)
Other (39) 10 (9) – – (38)
111 (29) (57) (2) (9) 14
Non-equity
Finance minority Total Total
Debt leases interests Other 2001 2000
Maturity of financial liabilities £m £m £m £m £m £m
Within one year or on demand 2,122 2 449 29 2,602 3,161
Between one and two years 9 2 172 85 268 704
Between two and five years 1,096 3 – 84 1,183 1,447
After five years 991 7 – 17 1,015 71
4,218 14 621 215 5,068 5,383
2001
Gains Losses Net
Hedges £m £m £m
Unrecognised gains and losses at the beginning of the year 153 (119) 34
Gains and losses arising in previous years and
recognised in the year (135) 91 (44)
Gains and losses arising before the beginning of the
year and still unrecognised at the end of the year 18 (28) (10)
Unrecognised gains and losses arising in the year 38 (1) 37
Total unrecognised gains and losses at the end of the year 56 (29) 27
Expected to be recognised within one year 24 (20) 4
Expected to be recognised after one year 32 (9) 23
Total unrecognised gains and losses at the end of the year 56 (29) 27
Committed facilities
The Group has committed facilities to back up the commercial paper programme of £968 million (2000 – £940 million) of 364 days
duration renewable annually.Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 103
33 Employee share schemes
The Group operates share option schemes, whereby options are granted to employees to acquire shares or ADSs in GlaxoSmithKline plc
at the grant price, and share award schemes, whereby awards are granted to employees to acquire shares or ADSs in GlaxoSmithKline plc
at no cost, subject tothe achievement of performance targets. The details given below relate to schemes operated by GlaxoSmithKline in
2001 and separately by Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham up to the date of the merger, which became schemes of
GlaxoSmithKline on the merger. Each Glaxo Wellcome option outstanding at the date of the merger was converted into one
GlaxoSmithKline option. Each SmithKline Beecham share option wasconverted into 0.4552 of a GlaxoSmithKline share option and each
SmithKline Beecham ADS option was converted into 1.138 GlaxoSmithKline ADS options, with corresponding adjustments to the grant
price.
GlaxoSmithKline share option schemes
The Group operates share option schemes and savings-related share option schemes. Grants under share options schemes are normally
exercisable between three and ten years from the date of grant. Grants under savings-related share option schemes are normally
exercisable after three years’ saving.
Options under the share option schemes are normally granted at the market price ruling at the date of grant. In accordance with UK
practice, the majority of options under the savings-related share option schemes are granted at a price 20% below the market price ruling
at the date of grant.
Options outstanding Share option Share option Savings-related
schemes – shares schemes – ADSs share option schemes
at 31st December2001
Weighted Weighted Weighted
Number exercise Number exercise Number exercise
(000) price (000) price (000) price
At 27th December 2000:
Converted from GW options 106,748 £13.87 – – 8,397 £12.34
Converted from SB options 35,122 £12.81 37,962 $44.10 – –
Options exercised (4,275) £11.18 – – (62) £11.17
Options cancelled – – – – (59) £13.41
At 31st December 2000 137,595 £13.68 37,962 $44.10 8,276 £12.34
Options granted 67,763 £17.98 42,034 $51.82 4,443 £14.12
Options exercised (21,332) £10.36 (4,705) $13.06 (3,075) £8.48
Options cancelled (4,090) £14.68 (1,466) $52.40 (1,444) £15.90
At 31st December 2001 179,936 £15.67 73,825 $50.31 8,200 £14.13
Range of exercise prices £3.61 – £19.77 $11.68 – $61.35 £13.27 – £16.48
In order to encourage employees to convert options held over Glaxo Wellcome or SmithKline Beecham shares or ADSs into those over
GlaxoSmithKline shares or ADSs, a programme was established to give an additional cash benefit of ten per cent of the exercise price of
the original option provided that the employee does not voluntarily leave the Group for two years from the date of the merger and does
not exercise the option before the earlier of six months from the expiry date of the original option and two years from the date of the
merger.
Options outstanding Share option Share option Savings-related
schemes – shares schemes – ADSs share option schemes
at 31st December2001
Weighted Latest Weighted Latest Weighted Latest
Number exercise exercise Number exercise exercise Number exercise exercise
Year of grant (000) price date (000) price date (000) price date
1992 1,163 £7.33 27.11.02 346 $17.42 27.11.02 – – –
1993 1,011 £5.26 01.12.03 283 $12.97 24.11.03 – – –
1994 4,603 £5.18 22.11.04 1,823 $14.64 22.11.04 – – –
1995 6,835 £7.12 21.11.05 1,176 $21.74 15.11.05 – – –
1996 7,644 £8.42 01.12.06 1,645 $27.69 21.11.06 – – –
1997 12,361 £11.62 13.11.07 5,456 $40.33 13.11.07 – – –
1998 25,247 £16.90 23.11.08 10,781 $54.32 23.11.08 289 £14.29 31.05.02
1999 26,247 £18.16 03.12.09 10,294 $60.16 24.11.09 2,548 £13.27 31.05.03
2000 28,934 £14.88 11.09.10 569 $58.32 09.08.10 920 £16.48 31.05.04
2001 65,891 £18.09 28.11.11 41,452 $51.83 28.11.11 4,443 £14.12 31.05.05
Total 179,936 £15.67 73,825 $50.31 8,200 £14.13
All of the above options are exercisable, except 28,444,000 options over shares granted in 2000, all options over shares and ADSs granted
in 2001 and the savings-related share options granted in 1999, 2000 and 2001.
There has been no change in the effective exercise price of any outstanding options during the year. No further options were granted
between 31st December 2001 and 6th March 2002.104 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
33 Employee share schemes continued
Options exercisable Share option Share option Savings-related
schemes – shares schemes – ADSs share option schemes
Weighted Weighted Weighted
Number exercise Number exercise Number exercise
(000) price (000) price (000) price
At 31st December 1999 – GW 19,401 £7.03 – – 1,969 £5.96
– SB 38,217 £3.22 16,693 $30.82 – –
At 31st December 2000 – GSK 106,805 £13.36 37,962 $44.10 2,358 £6.73
At 31st December 2001 – GSK 85,601 £14.10 32,373 $48.36 289 £14.29
GlaxoSmithKline share award schemes
The Group operates a Performance Share Plan whereby awards are granted to Directors and senior staff at no cost. The percentage of each
award that vests is based upon the performance of GlaxoSmithKline over a three year measurement period. The performance conditions
consist of two parts, each of which applies to 50 per cent of the award. The first part of the condition compares GlaxoSmithKline’s Total
Shareholder Return (TSR) over the period with the TSR of companies in the UKFTSE 100 Index over the same period. The second part of the
performance condition compares GlaxoSmithKline’s earnings per share growth to the increase in the UKRetail Price Index over the three year
performance period.
Shares ADSs
Number of shares and ADSs issuable Number (000) Number (000)
At 27th December 2000
Converted from Glaxo Wellcome awards 2,111 –
Converted from SmithKline Beecham awards 1,623 1,386
Awards exercised (243) –
At 31st December 2000 3,491 1,386
Awards granted 1,778 1,042
Awards exercised (2,016) (598)
Awards cancelled (72) (70)
At 31st December 2001 3,181 1,760
Of the above awards, 39,000relating to shares and 4,000relating to ADSs were exercisable at 31st December 2001.
Employee Share Ownership Trusts
The Group sponsors Employee Share Ownership Trusts to acquire and hold shares in GlaxoSmithKline plc to satisfy awards made under
employee incentive plans and options granted under employee share option schemes. The trustees of the Employee Share Ownership Trusts
purchase shares onthe open market with finance provided by the Group by way of loan or contributions. The expected cost of the
obligations to deliver shares under the schemes are normally spread over the periods of service in respect of which the awards and options
are granted. An accelerated charge was made in 2000 in respect of the outstanding cost of providing shares for awards and options which
became exercisable solely as a result of the merger.
Shares held for share award schemes 2001 2000
Number of shares (000) 6,701 6,263
£m £m
Nominal value 2 2
Cost less amortisation 58 –
Market value 115 118
Shares held for share option schemes 2001 2000
Number of shares (000) 180,708 155,089
£m £m
Nominal value 45 39
Cost less amortisation 2,878 2,327
Market value 3,114 2,931
The trustees have waived their rights to dividends on the shares held by the Employee Share Ownership Trusts.Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 105
33 Employee share schemescontinued
Glaxo Wellcome share option schemes
At the date of the merger, all Glaxo Wellcome options, except for share options granted in 2000 and savings-related share options granted
in 1998, 1999 and 2000, became exercisable and performance conditions, where applicable, lapsed.
Savings-related
Share option schemes share option schemes Total
Weighted Weighted Weighted
exercise exercise exercise
Number of shares issuable under outstanding options Number (000) price Number (000) price Number (000) price
At 31st December 1998 79,187 £10.80 13,062 £7.34 92,249 £10.31
Options granted 16,151 £18.43 3,105 £13.27 19,256 £17.59
Options exercised (11,034) £7.26 (4,072) £5.92 (15,106) £6.90
Options cancelled (1,290) £11.62 (677) £11.97 (1,967) £11.74
At 31st December 1999 83,014 £12.74 11,418 £9.18 94,432 £12.31
Options granted 35,989 £14.81 2,112 £16.48 38,101 £14.91
Options exercised (7,956) £7.77 (4,801) £6.72 (12,757) £7.38
Options cancelled (4,299) £12.53 (332) £11.36 (4,631) £12.44
Converted to GlaxoSmithKline options (106,748) £13.87 (8,397) £12.34 (115,145) £13.76
At 31st December 2000 – – – – – –
Glaxo Wellcome share award schemes
Glaxo Wellcome operated a Long Term Incentive Plan and, between 1996 and 1998, an Annual Incentive Plan. The Long Term Incentive
Plan granted awards over shares to Directors and senior staff at a nominal cost. The percentage of each award that vested was based on
the performance of Glaxo Wellcome over a three-year period. The Annual Incentive Plan was a performance bonus consisting of a basic
award ofshares and a matching award with a three-year retention period. As a result of the merger the awards under the Long Term
Incentive Plan became payable in full and the retention period of the Annual Incentive Plan lapsed.
Number of shares issuable under share award schemes Number (000)
At 31st December 1998 2,672
Awards granted 695
Awards exercised (958)
Awards cancelled (45)
At 31st December 1999 2,364
Awards granted 826
Awards exercised (790)
Awards cancelled (289)
Converted to GlaxoSmithKline awards (2,111)
At 31st December 2000 –106 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
33 Employee share schemescontinued
SmithKline Beecham share option schemes
At the date of the merger, all SmithKline Beecham share options became exercisable.
Shares ADSs
Weighted Weighted
exercise exercise
Number of shares and ADSs issuable under outstanding options Number (000) price Number (000) price
At 31st December 1998 95,562 £4.40 39,127 $37.59
Options granted 22,419 £8.12 9,816 $65.51
Options exercised (14,526) £2.88 (4,752) $23.92
Options cancelled (3,026) £3.79 (1,792) $37.30
At 31st December 1999 100,429 £5.47 42,399 $45.59
Options granted 1,448 £8.28 560 $67.00
Options exercised (20,951) £4.30 (8,055) $30.09
Options cancelled (3,769) £5.71 (1,545) $35.16
Converted to GlaxoSmithKline options (77,157) £5.83 (33,359) $50.18
At 31st December 2000 – – – –
SmithKline Beecham Mid-Term Incentive Plan
SmithKline Beecham adopted the Mid-Term Incentive Plan (MTIP) in 1996. Participations in the MTIP were granted annually to senior staff
in SmithKline Beecham, designating a target number of shares for each participant based on job grade. Following a three-year measurement
period, the R&N Committee reviewed SmithKline Beecham’s total shareholder return relative to the other companies comprising the FTSE
100 Index, and made a final award of a proportion of the target number of shares, up to 100 per cent, depending on performance. The
first two measurement periods ended on 31st December 1998 and 1999 and, 100 per cent and 97 per cent, respectively, of the target
number of shares was awarded. Receipt of the award could be deferred, in which case the shares remained in the MTIP. As a result of the
merger all outstanding awards became payable at 100 per cent of the target number of shares at the end of each three-year cycle.
Shares ADSs
Number of shares issuable under the Mid-Term Incentive Plan Number (000) Number (000)
At 31st December 1998 4,574 1,289
Awards granted 1,241 380
Awards exercised (783) (148)
Awards cancelled (196) (39)
At 31st December 1999 4,836 1,482
Awards granted 124 24
Awards exercised (1,224) (259)
Awards cancelled (170) (29)
Converted to GlaxoSmithKline awards (3,566) (1,218)
At 31st December 2000 – –
Option pricing
For the purposes of valuing options to arrive at the stock-based compensation adjustment in the Reconciliation to US accounting principles
in Note36, the Black-Scholes option pricing model has been used. The assumptions used in the model for 2001 and 2000 are as follows:
2001 2000
Risk-free interest rate 4.5% – 5.0% 5.6%
Dividend yield 1.8% – 1.9% 2.1%
Volatility 33% 36%
Expected lives of options granted under:
Share option schemes 5 years 5 years
Savings related share option schemes 3 years 3 yearsNotes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 107
34 Directors’ remuneration
GlaxoSmithKline’s policy on Directors’ remuneration, together with details of the remuneration received by the Directors in 2001, are given
inthe Remuneration report.
The Directors were appointed to the Board of the company on 23rd May 2000. They received no remuneration from GlaxoSmithKline plc
in2000, but continued to be remunerated by Glaxo Wellcome plc and SmithKline Beecham plc for their services to those companies.
Themergerbetween Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham completed on 27th December 2000, at which point Glaxo Wellcome and
SmithKline Beecham became subsidiaries of GlaxoSmithKline plc.
Statutory disclosures in respect of Directors’ remuneration attributable to Directors of GlaxoSmithKline plc in 2000, in relation to their
servicesto the company and its subsidiaries, from 27th to 31st December 2000, are set out below.
2000
Directors’ compensation £000
Salary and fees 44
Benefits and other emoluments 277
Bonus 30
Total compensation 351
From date of appointment to 31st December 2000
Benefits
Salary and and other
fees emoluments Bonus Total
Emoluments by individual Director £000 £000 £000 £000
Executive Directors
Dr J P Garnier 11 1 16 28
Mr J D Coombe 7 – 4 11
18 1 20 39
Non-Executive Directors
Sir Richard Sykes 14 – 10 24
Sir Roger Hurn 1 – – 1
Sir Peter Walters 4 275 – 279
Mr P A Allaire 1 – – 1
Dr M Barzach – 1 – 1
Mr D C Bonham – – – –
Sir Christopher Hogg 1 – – 1
Sir Peter Job – – – –
Mr J H McArthur 1 – – 1
Mr D F McHenry 1 – – 1
Sir Ian Prosser 1 – – 1
Dr R Schmitz – – – –
Dr L Shapiro 1 – – 1
Mr J A Young 1 – – 1
26 276 10 312
Total compensation 44 277 30 351108 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
35 Employee costs 2001 2000 1999
£m £m £m
Wages and salaries 3,664 3,578 3,408
Social security costs 344 383 363
Pension and other post-retirement costs 228 244 218
Cost of share-based incentive plans 147 197 82
Severance costs arising from integration and restructuring activities 245 82 63
Pension and other post-retirement costs arising from integration 58 3 –
4,686 4,487 4,134
The Group provides benefits to employees, commensurate with local practice in individual countries, including, in some markets, healthcare
insurance, subsidised car schemes and personal life assurance.
2001 2000 1999
The average number of persons employed by the Group (including Directors) during the year Number Number Number
Manufacturing 37,154 36,177 41,796
Selling, general and administration 55,655 55,365 55,894
Research and development 15,090 16,659 16,336
107,899 108,201 114,026
The average number of Group employees excludes temporary and contract staff. As a consequence of the time it took to complete the
merger in 2000 GlaxoSmithKline replaced, where needed, leavers with contractors, and so the year end 2000 level of contractors was
disproportionately high. The movement in 2001 compared to 2000 reflects the conversion of some contract employees to permanent
employees, redundancies due to merger integration and additional employees from the acquisition of Block Drug.
The numbers of Group employees at the end of each financial year are given in the Financial record (page 140).
2001 2000 1999
Pension and other post-retirement costs £m £m £m
UK pension schemes 16 16 9
US pension schemes 70 68 72
Other overseas pensions schemes 57 105 88
Unfunded post-retirement healthcare schemes 57 48 41
Post-employment costs 28 7 8
228 244 218
Analysed as:
Funded defined benefit/hybrid schemes 107 82 81
Unfunded defined benefit schemes 13 10 9
Defined contribution schemes 23 97 79
Unfunded post-retirement healthcare schemes 57 48 41
Post-employment costs 28 7 8
228 244 218
Pension and other post-retirement costs arising from integration 58 3 –
Pensions
Group undertakings operate pension arrangements which cover the Group’s material obligations to provide pensions to retired employees.
Thesearrangements have been developed in accordance with local practices in the countries concerned. Pension benefits can be provided
by State schemes; by defined contribution schemes, whereby retirement benefits are determined by the value of funds arising from
contributions paid in respect of each employee, or by defined benefit schemes, whereby retirement benefits are based on employee
pensionable remuneration and length ofservice. Some defined benefit schemes now also include defined contribution sections and
aredescribed as ‘hybrid’ schemes in the table.
In the majority of cases the contributions to defined benefit schemes are determined in accordance with the advice of independent,
professionally qualified actuaries. Formal, independent, actuarial valuations of the Group’s main plans are undertaken regularly, normally at
least every three years. Theassets of funded schemes are generally held in separately administered trusts or are insured. Pension costs for
accounting purposes have been assessed in accordance with independent actuarial advice, generally using the projected unit method and
by spreading surpluses or deficits over the average expected remaining service lives of the respective memberships.
In certain countries pension benefits are provided on an unfunded basis, some of which are under a scheme administered by a trustee
company. Whereassets are not held with the specific purpose of matching the liabilities of unfunded schemes, a provision is included
within provisions for pensions and other post-retirement benefits. The charge against profits in respect of these benefits is the aggregate
ofthe increase over the year intheassessed liabilities for members still in service and the net movement in provisions set up for pensions
inpayment. Liabilities are generally assessed annually in accordance with the advice of independent actuaries.Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 109
35 Employee costs continued
Throughout 2001 the pension arrangements in the majority of former Glaxo Wellcome companies and former SmithKline Beecham companies
continued to be operated separately. However in a few instances, including the USA, the pension arrangements have been merged.
Accordingly the following information deals with each set of arrangements separately.
The market value of the assets of the Group’s funded defined benefit pension funds at the date of the latest actuarial valuations was
£6.7billion and was sufficient to cover 121 per cent of the benefits that had accrued to members after allowing for future salary and
pension increases.
The UK defined benefit pension schemes account for approximately 70 per cent of the Group’s plans in asset valuation and projected
benefit terms and the US defined benefit pension schemes account for approximately 25 per cent of the Group’s plans in asset valuation
and projected benefit terms.
UK
In the UK the pension schemes operated for the benefit of former Glaxo Wellcome employees and former SmithKline Beecham employees
remain separate. These schemes have now been closed to new entrants and new UK employees are entitled to join a new defined
contribution scheme. The relevant assumptions used in calculating the pension costs of the UK defined benefit schemes for accounting
purposes are as follows:
Glaxo Wellcome SmithKline Beecham
2001 2000 2001 2000
% pa % pa % pa % pa
Rate of increase of future earnings 4.0 4.0 4.0 4.8
Discount rate 8.0 8.0 8.0 8.5
Expected long-term rate of return on investments 8.0 8.0 8.0 8.5
Expected pension increases 2.5 2.5 2.5 3.0
UK equity dividend growth 5.0 5.0 5.0 5.5
The regular cost for the Glaxo Wellcome pension arrangements in 2001 was £54 million, which became a £25 million credit for the
accounts, after allowance was made for spreading the surplus disclosed as a level percentage of salary over the expected future working
lifetime of the existing members (some 11 years).
The most recent triennial actuarial valuations of the Glaxo Wellcome schemes for funding purposes were carried out as at 31stMarch
2000. At that date the assets of the schemes represented 133 per cent of the actuarial value of all benefits accrued to members after
allowing for future salary and pension increases. The Trustees of the UK pension schemes agreed, at the company’s request, to grant
various benefit improvements, which included a five per cent enhancement in the entitlement of all beneficiaries. After allowance is made
for these improvements, the funding level has fallen to 123 per cent. Following the valuations, company contributions to the schemes
remain suspended at least until the next formal valuation and are expected to remain suspended beyond. Thetotal market value of the
assets held by the schemes at 31st March 2000 was £3,670 million.
The regular cost for the SmithKline Beecham schemes in 2001 was £22 million, which increased to an accounting cost of £37 million after
allowance was made for the spreading of the deficit over the expected future working lifetime of current employees in the scheme (some
11 years). The latest valuation was carried out at 31st December 1999 and at that date the actuarial value of scheme assets represented
90per cent of the actuarial value of the accrued service liabilities based on the 2001 assumptions. The total market value of assets held by
the scheme at 31st December 1999 was £1,077 million.
USA
In the USA the former Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham defined benefit and hybrid schemes were merged during the year. The
relevant assumptions used in calculating the pension costs for accounting purposes are as follows:
2001 2000
Glaxo- Glaxo SmithKline
SmithKline Wellcome Beecham
% pa % pa % pa
Rate of increase of future earnings 5.5 6.0 5.5
Discount rate 9.5 6.0 9.5
Expected long-term rate of return on investments 9.5 8.0 9.5
US equity dividend growth 7.75 n/a 7.75
The regular cost for the US scheme in 2001 was £60 million, which increased to an accounting cost of £63 million after allowance was
made for the spreading of the deficit over the expected future working lifetime of current employees in the scheme. The latest valuation
was carried out at 1st January 2001 and at that date the actuarial value of scheme assets represented 94 per cent of the actuarial value
of theaccrued service liabilities. The total market value of assets held by the scheme at 1st January 2001 was £1,644 million.110 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
35 Employee costs continued
FRS 17 disclosures
The Group continues to account for pension arrangements in accordance with SSAP 24 ‘Accounting for Pension Costs’. Under the
transitional provisions of FRS 17 ‘Retirement Benefits’ certain disclosures are required on the basis of the valuation methodology adopted
by FRS 17. For defined benefit schemes the fair values of pension scheme assets at 31st December 2001 are compared with the future
pension liabilities calculated under the projected unit method. The relevant assumptions used for the FRS 17 calculations are as follows:
Rest of
UK USA World
% pa % pa % pa
Rate of increase of future earnings 4.0 5.5 3.5
Discount rate 6.0 7.25 4.75
Expected pension increases 2.5 n/a 1.0
Cash balance credit/conversion rate n/a 6.25 n/a
Inflation rate 2.5 3.5 1.5
The expected rates of return on the assets and the fair values of the assets and liabilities of the UK and US defined benefit schemes, together
with aggregated data for other defined benefit schemes in the Group at 31st December 2001 are as follows:
UK USA Rest of World Group
Average
Expected rate Fair Expected rate Fair expected rate Fair Fair
of return value of return value of return value value
% £m % £m % £m £m
Equities 8.5 3,234 9.5 1,220 7.25 193 4,647
Property – – 8.0 54 7.5 3 57
Bonds 5.0 411 7.0 250 5.0 107 768
Other assets 4.5 70 5.0 12 3.25 10 92
Fair value of assets 3,715 1,536 313 5,564
Present value of scheme liabilities (3,970) (1,781) (527) (6,278)
(255) (245) (214) (714)
Net value of schemes in surplus 42 24 66
Deferred tax liability (13) (7) (20)
Net value of schemes in deficit (297) (245) (238) (780)
Deferred tax asset 89 93 95 277
Group total (457)
The UK defined benefit schemes also have defined contribution sections with account balances totalling £263 million at 31st December
2001. These UK schemes have been closed to new members, and under the projected unit method of valuing the pension scheme liabilities
the current service cost will increase as the members of the schemes approach retirement.
The deficits under FRS 17 reflect the different bases for valuing assets and liabilities compared with SSAP 24, including the immediate impact
of the fair values of assets at 31st December 2001. As a result of poor stock market performance during 2001, the fair values of assets held
by the UK and US pension schemes have fallen by approximately 12 per cent and seven per cent respectively in the year.
The Group also operates a number of unfunded post-retirement healthcare schemes, the principal one of which is in the USA. The liability
under FRS 17 for the US scheme has been assessed using the same assumptions as for the US pension scheme, together with the
assumption for future medical inflation of seven per cent, reducing by 0.5 per cent per year to five per cent. On this basis the liability for the
USscheme has been assessed at £787 million, which reduced to £488 million after taking account of deferred tax.
If the valuation basis above had been applied in the accounts instead of the SSAP 24 valuation basis, the effect on the profit and loss
account reserve at 31st December 2001 after taking account of deferred tax would have been as follows:
£m £m
Profit and loss account reserve per balance sheet 3,938
Pension liability under FRS 17 (457)
Pension liability under SSAP 24 per balance sheet (185)
(272)
Post-retirement healthcare schemes under FRS 17 (519)
Post-retirement healthcare schemes provision per balance sheet (388)
(131)
Profit and loss account reserve including pension and post-retirement healthcare liability 3,535Notes to the financial statements GlaxoSmithKline 111
36 Reconciliation to USaccounting principles Summary of material differences between UK and US GAAP
The financial statements, analyses and reconciliations presented in Capitalised interest
this note represent the financial information which would be Under UK GAAP, the Group does not capitalise interest. USGAAP
required if US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) had requires interest incurred as part of the cost of constructing fixed
been applied instead of UKGAAP. assets to be capitalised and amortised over the life of the asset.
The most significant difference between US and UK GAAP is that, Computer software
under UKGAAP, the combination of Glaxo Wellcome plc and Under UK GAAP, the company capitalises costs incurred in
SmithKline Beecham plc has been accounted for as a merger acquiring and developing computer software for internal use where
(pooling of interest) while under USGAAP this transaction is the software supports a significant business system and the
accounted for as a purchase business combination with Glaxo expenditure leads to the creation of a durable asset. For US GAAP,
Wellcome acquiring SmithKline Beecham. the company applies SOP 98-1 ‘Accounting for the Costs of
Computer Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use’ which
GlaxoSmithKline plc was formed to give effect to a Scheme of
restricts the categories of costs which can be capitalised.
Arrangement for the merger of Glaxo Wellcome plc and SmithKline
Beecham plc effective on 27thDecember 2000. GlaxoSmithKline plc Goodwill and intangible fixed assets
acquired the whole of the issued share capital of Glaxo Wellcome plc Beginning in 1998 the company changed its accounting policy
and SmithKline Beecham plc in exchange for shares in forgoodwill and intangible assets under UKGAAP in respect of
GlaxoSmithKline plc.Upon completion of the merger the former acquisitions from 1998, such that no material difference will exist
shareholders of Glaxo Wellcome held approximately 58.75 per cent between UK and USGAAP. A difference continues to exist in
and the former shareholders of SmithKline Beecham held respect of prior years’ goodwill and intangible assets until fully
approximately 41.25 per cent of the issued share capital of amortised under USGAAP. Goodwill arising on acquisitions before
GlaxoSmithKline plc. 1st January 1998 was set against shareholders’ funds under UK
GAAP. Under US GAAP, this goodwill is capitalised and amortised
As the combination of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham
over its expected useful economic life and charged against income.
was accounted for as a merger under UKGAAP, the financial
Intangible assets recognised before 1st January 1998 under US
statements of GlaxoSmithKline under UKGAAP represent the
purchase accounting requirements are amortised over their
combined financial statements of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline
estimated revenue earning life, which is taken to be patent
Beecham on a historical basis for all periods presented.
lifeplusfive years.
Under US GAAP, this business combination did not qualify for
Under UK GAAP, costs to be incurred in integrating and
pooling of interests accounting and Glaxo Wellcome was
restructuring the Wellcome, SmithKline Beecham and Block Drug
determined to be the accounting acquirer in a purchase acquisition
businesses following the acquisitions in 1995, 2000 and 2001
dated 27thDecember 2000. Under US GAAP the financial
respectively, were charged to the profit and loss account post
statements of GlaxoSmithKline prior to the merger are therefore
acquisition. Under US GAAP, certain ofsuch costs are considered in
those of Glaxo Wellcome.
the allocation of purchase consideration thereby affecting the
In view of the proximity of the merger date to the financial year end goodwill arising on acquisition.
date, and the relative insignificance of any business activity between
Under UKGAAP certain intangible assets related to specific
27th December 2000 and 31st December 2000, the accounting
compounds or products which are purchased from a third party
date of the acquisition was for practical purposes taken as
and are developed for commercial applications are capitalised.
31stDecember 2000.
Under USGAAP, payments made for these compounds or products
The reconciliation of the consolidated income statements and the which are still in development and have not yet received regulatory
consolidated statements of comprehensive income and changes in approval are charged directly to profit and loss until such time that
shareholder equity for the three years ended 31st December 2001, they receive regulatory approval.
2000 and 1999 correspondingly reflect the purchase method of
Merger transaction costs
accounting for theacquisition of SmithKline Beecham by Glaxo
Glaxo Wellcome incurred total merger-related transaction costs of
Wellcome. The income statement has been presented in a US GAAP
£66million, excluding integration and restructuring costs. Under
format and therefore certain exceptional items under UKGAAP
UK GAAP these merger transaction costs were expensed as
being product divestments, merger integration costs and in addition
incurred during 2000. Under USGAAP, direct acquisition costs of
the write-off of in-process research and development have been
the acquiring company are included as a portion of the purchase
classified within operating profit.
consideration.
A consolidated balance sheet and a consolidated statement of cash
Restructuring costs
flows under USGAAP and in USGAAPformat are also presented.
Prior to the adoption of FRS 12 ‘Provisions, contingent liabilities
The balance sheet as at 31st December 2000 includes the fair value
andcontingent assets’, the requirements for recording a provision
of the acquired assets and liabilities of SmithKline Beecham plc
for restructuring costs were more prescriptive under USGAAP than
prepared under USGAAP.
under UKGAAP. Accordingly, adjustments have been made to
These financial statements reflect both the purchase method of eliminate the UKGAAPprovision for restructuring costs that do
accounting for the combination of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline notmeet USGAAPrequirements.
Beecham and also other material adjustments which would be
required if USGAAP had been applied instead of UKGAAP for
theperiods presented. A summary of the purchase accounting
adjustments and of other USGAAP adjustments is provided in the
reconciliations of profit attributable to shareholders and of equity
shareholders’ funds from UK to USGAAP.112 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
36 Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued Foreign currency hedging
The Group enters into forward exchange contracts and other
Marketable securities
financial instruments which, under UKGAAP, are treated as hedges
Marketable securities consist primarily of equity securities and
of future income. The matching principle is used to match the gain
certain other liquid investments. Under UKGAAP these securities
or loss under these hedging contracts to the foreign currency
are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Under US
transaction or profits to which they relate. Under US GAAP, these
GAAP these securities are available for sale under Statement of
instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting and any unrealised
Financial Accounting Standard No 115 (SFAS 115) ‘Accounting for
gain or loss on hedges of future profits or transactions must be
certain investments in debt and equity securities’ and are carried at
valued at the year end at market rates and recognised in the net
fair value, with the unrealised gains and losses, net of tax, reported
income of the current year.
as a separate component of shareholders’ equity.
Derivative instruments
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits
Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 133, ‘Accounting
The key differences between UK (SSAP 24) and USGAAP in relation
for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities’ (SFAS 133) as
to defined benefit pension plans are:
amended by SFAS 137 and SFAS 138 and as interpreted by the
• under UKGAAP the effect of variations in cost can be Derivatives Implementation Group, was adopted by the Group
accumulated at successive valuations and amortised on an effective as of 1st January 2001. SFAS 133 establishes accounting
aggregate basis. Under US GAAP the amortisation of the and reporting standards for derivative instruments, including certain
transition asset and the costs of past service benefit derivative instruments embedded in other contracts (collectively,
improvements are separately tracked: experience gains/losses are referred to as derivatives) and for hedging activities. SFAS 133
dealt with on an aggregate basis but amortised only if outside a requires that an entity recognise all derivatives as either assets or
10 per cent corridor. liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet and measure those
instruments at fair value. SFAS 133 prescribes requirements for
• UK GAAP allows measurements of plan assets and liabilities to
designation and documentation of hedging relationships and
be based on the result of the latest actuarial valuation. USGAAP
ongoing assessments of effectiveness in order to qualify for hedge
requires measurement of plan assets and liabilities to be made at
accounting.
the date of the financial statements or up to three months prior
to that date. The Group also evaluates contracts for ‘embedded’ derivatives, and
considers whether any embedded derivatives have to be bifurcated,
The disclosures required by SFAS132 are included in this Note.
or separated, from the host contracts in accordance with SFAS 133
Stock-based compensation requirements. If embedded derivatives exist and are not clearly and
Under UK GAAP share options are accounted for as equity when closely related to the host contract, they are accounted for
exercised, valued at the issuance price. Under USGAAP, the Group separately from the host contract as derivatives, with changes in
applies SFAS 123 ‘Accounting for stock-based compensation’ and their fair value recorded in current earnings.
related accounting interpretations in accounting for its option plans
The Group did not designate any of its derivatives as qualifying
which require options to be fair valued at their grant date and
hedge instruments under SFAS 133 and, accordingly recorded the
included in profit and loss over the vesting period of the options.
cumulative effect of adopting SFAS 133 at 1st January 2001,
As a result of the merger certain of the Group’s options vested
representing the initial revaluation of derivatives and other items as
immediately requiring the acceleration of compensation expense.
described above, as an after tax charge of £5 million in other
The amount of stock-based compensation expense related to this
comprehensive income. There was no cumulative effect on net
accelerated vesting was £83 million in 2000. The disclosures
income. Gains and losses related to the fair value adjustments of all
required by SFAS123 are included in Note 33. Additionally, the
derivative instruments are classified in the consolidated statement of
Group is entitled to receive a tax deduction for the amount treated
income and cashflows in accordance with the nature of the
as compensation under US tax rules for employee stock options
derivative.
which have been exercised by USemployees during the year.
Under UKGAAP this is treated as a reduction of tax expense The fair value and book value of derivative instruments in respect of
whereas under USGAAP this amount is credited to equity. financial assets and liabilities as at 31st December 2001 is disclosed
in the ‘Classification and fair value of financial assets and liabilities’
Employee Share Ownership Trust (ESOT)
table in Note 32.
Under UK GAAP shares of the Group’s stock held by the ESOT
arerecorded at cost, less a provision representing the difference Valuation of derivative instruments
between the cost and the option exercise price, and accounted for The fair value of derivative instruments is sensitive to movements
as fixed asset investments. Projected losses on the exercise of the in the underlying market rates and variables. The Group monitors
options covered by the shares are recorded through the profit and the fair value of derivative instruments on a periodic basis. Cross
loss account over the life of theoptions. Under US GAAP shares of currency swaps are valued using standard valuation models,
the Group’s stock purchased by the ESOT are accounted for within counterparty valuations, or third-party valuations. Standard
shareholders’ equity at cost. Gainsorlosses arising on subsequent valuation models used by the Group consider relevant discount
issuance of the shares to employees to satisfy share options are rates, the market yield curve on the valuation date, forward
recorded as adjustments toshareholders’ equity. currency exchange rates and counterparty risk. All significant rates
and variables are obtained from market sources. All valuations are
based on the remaining term to maturity of the instrument. Foreign
currency forwards are valued using forward rates observed from
quoted prices in the relevant markets when possible. The Group
assumes parties to long-term contracts are economically viable and
will immediately exercise early termination rights if economically
beneficial when such rights exist in the contract.Notes to the financial statements GlaxoSmithKline 113
36 Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued SFAS 142 requires that goodwill will no longer be amortised over its
estimated useful life. The company must instead identify and value
Dividends
its reporting units for the purpose of assessing, at least annually,
Under UK GAAP, dividends proposed are provided for in the year in
potential impairment of goodwill allocated to each reporting unit.
respect of which they are recommended by the Board ofDirectors
Additionally, the company will need to reassess the useful lives of
for approval by the shareholders. Under USGAAP, suchdividends
existing recognised intangible assets. Intangible assets deemed to
are not provided for until declared by the Board ofDirectors.
have indefinite lives will no longer be amortised, instead tested
Deferred taxation annually for potential impairment. Separate intangible assets with
Under UK GAAP, deferred taxation is only accounted for to the finite lives will continue to be amortised over their useful lives.
extent that it is probable that taxation liabilities or benefits will The Group will adopt SFAS 142 as of 1st January 2002. Since an
become payable or crystallise within the foreseeable future. Under extensive effort is needed to adopt SFAS 142, it is not practical
US GAAP, SFAS 109 ‘Accounting for income taxes’ requires deferred to fully estimate the impact of adopting SFAS 142 on the Group’s
taxation to be provided on a full liability basis, and a valuation financial statements. At 31st December 2001, the Group had
allowance is established in respect of those deferred tax assets unamortised goodwill of approximately £18 billion. Total goodwill
where it is more likelythan not that some portion will not be amortisation and amortisation of indefinite-lived intangible assets
realised. was approximately £1.4 billion and £150 million respectively for
the year ended 31st December 2001 which will not be incurred
Exceptional items
in 2002 under USGAAP.
Items classified as exceptional under UK GAAP do not meet the
definition of extraordinary under US GAAP and are therefore In June 2001 the FASB approved SFAS 143, ‘Accounting for
classified as operating expense. Obligations Associated with the Retirement of Long-Lived Assets’,
which is required to be implemented by the Group with effect from
Consolidated statement of cash flows
1st January 2003. This standard requires that the fair value of a
The USGAAP cash flow statement reports changes in cash and
liability for an asset retirement obligation be recognised in the
cash equivalents, which includes short-term highly liquid
period in which it is incurred if a reasonable estimate of fair value
investments with original maturities of three months or less.
can be made. The associated asset retirement costs are capitalised
Onlythree categories of cash flows are reported: operating
as part of the carrying amount of the asset and depreciated over its
activities (including tax and interest); investing activities (including
useful life. In October 2001 the FASB issued SFAS 144, ‘Accounting
capital expenditures, acquisitions and disposals together with
for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets’ which is
cashflows from available for sale current asset investments);
required to be implemented by the Group with effect from 1st
andfinancing activities (including dividends paid). A statement
January 2002. The standard develops one accounting model for
ofcash flows is presented on page 117.
long-lived assets including discontinued operations to be disposed
Cash and cash equivalents of by sale. The Group is currently assessing the impact of these
Under UK GAAP the cash balance includes only cash at bank and standards.
other cash balances. Under USGAAP cash and cash equivalents
include cash at bank and certain liquid investments with original
maturities of three months or less.
Comprehensive income statement
The requirement of SFAS 130 ‘Reporting comprehensive income’ to
provide a comprehensive income statement is met under UKGAAP
by the Statement of total recognised gains and losses (pages 68
to 69). A statement of comprehensive income under USGAAP for
the three years in the period ending 31st December 2001 is
presented on pages 114 and 115. Under USGAAP the statement
includes the net impact of gains and losses on equity and liquid
investments and translation adjustments.
Recent FASB pronouncements
In July 2001 the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB)
issued Statement No. 141 ‘Business Combinations’ (SFAS 141)
and Statement No. 142 ‘Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets’
(SFAS142).
SFAS 141 prohibits the pooling-of-interests method of accounting
for business combinations and requires the purchase method of
accounting for all business combinations initiated after 30th June
2001. It prescribes the initial recognition and measurement of
goodwill and other intangible assets, accounting for negative
goodwill and the required disclosures in respect of business
combinations.114 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
36 Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued 2001
Glaxo- Glaxo-
SmithKline US GAAP SmithKline
(UK GAAP) adjustments (US GAAP)
Reconciliation of consolidated income statement £m £m £m
Revenues 20,489 – 20,489
Cost of sales (4,733) (324) (5,057)
Gross profit 15,756 (324) 15,432
Selling, general and administrative expenditure (8,358) (78) (8,436)
Research and development expenditure (2,651) (140) (2,791)
Trading profit 4,747 (542) 4,205
Other operating income/(expense) 37 (75) (38)
Amortisation of goodwill and intangible assets (50) (3,527) (3,577)
Write-off in-process R&D acquired – – –
Product divestments – – –
Merger transaction costs – – –
Operating profit 4,734 (4,144) 590
Share of profits/(losses) of joint ventures
and associated undertakings 71 – 71
(Loss)/Profit on disposal of interest in associate 96 (117) (21)
Profit on dissolution of joint venture – – –
Disposal of businesses:
Provision for loss on disposal – – –
Loss on disposal of subsidiary (296) 204 (92)
Utilisation of provision – – –
Profit before interest 4,605 (4,057) 548
Net interest expense (88) 34 (54)
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 4,517 (4,023) 494
Taxation (1,327) 821 (506)
Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 3,190 (3,202) (12)
Minority interests (97) – (97)
Preference share dividends (34) – (34)
Earnings (Profit attributable to shareholders)/Net (loss)/income 3,059 (3,202) (143)
Basic (loss)/earnings per share under US GAAP (pence) (2.4)p
Diluted (loss)/earnings per share under US GAAP (pence) (2.4)p
Basic (loss)/earnings per ADS under USGAAP ($) $(0.07)
Diluted (loss)/earnings per ADS under US GAAP ($) $(0.07)
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income and
2001
changes in shareholders’ equity under USGAAP £m
Shareholders’ equity at beginning of year 44,995
Net (loss)/income (143)
Exchange movements on overseas net assets (83)
Unrealised (loss)/gain on equity investments, net of tax (381)
Unrealised (loss)/gain on liquid investments, net of tax (1)
Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle 5
Comprehensive (loss)/income (603)
Dividends (2,872)
Shares purchased and cancelled (1,274)
Shares issued 144
Employee Share Ownership Plan (501)
Shares issued to purchase SmithKline Beecham –
Other 218
Shareholders’ equity at end of year 40,107Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 115
2000 1999
Less SmithKline Less SmithKline
Glaxo- Beecham Glaxo- Glaxo- Beecham Glaxo-
SmithKline pre-acquisition US GAAP SmithKline SmithKline pre-acquisition US GAAP SmithKline
(UK GAAP) (UK GAAP) adjustments (US GAAP) (UK GAAP) (UK GAAP) adjustments (US GAAP)
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
18,079 (8,520) – 9,559 16,796 (8,306) – 8,490
(3,962) 1,802 (32) (2,192) (4,334) 2,467 (54) (1,921)
14,117 (6,718) (32) 7,367 12,462 (5,839) (54) 6,569
(7,136) 3,578 (65) (3,623) (6,246) 3,225 (88) (3,109)
(2,526) 1,158 (28) (1,396) (2,286) 1,017 (29) (1,298)
4,455 (1,982) (125) 2,348 3,930 (1,597) (171) 2,162
274 (23) – 251 413 (121) – 292
– – (725) (725) – – (820) (820)
– – (6,324) (6,324) – – – –
1,416 (1,422) – (6) – – – –
(121) 55 66 – – – – –
6,024 (3,372) (7,108) (4,456) 4,343 (1,718) (991) 1,634
57 (57) – – 7 (4) – 3
144 – – 144 39 – – 39
– – – – – – – –
– – – – – – – –
(14) 14 – – (635) 635 – –
– – – – 644 (644) – –
6,211 (3,415) (7,108) (4,312) 4,398 (1,731) (991) 1,676
(182) 95 – (87) (162) 70 – (92)
6,029 (3,320) (7,108) (4,399) 4,236 (1,661) (991) 1,584
(1,699) 928 (37) (808) (1,218) 472 93 (653)
4,330 (2,392) (7,145) (5,207) 3,018 (1,189) (898) 931
(120) 99 – (21) (110) 92 – (18)
(56) 56 – – (49) 49 – –
4,154 (2,237) (7,145) (5,228) 2,859 (1,048) (898) 913
(145.6)p 25.2p
(145.6)p 25.1p
$(4.43) $0.82
$(4.43) $0.81
2000 1999
£m £m
7,230 8,007
(5,228) 913
88 (115)
356 (110)
1 (5)
– –
(4,783) 683
(1,334) (1,305)
– –
121 104
(218) (211)
43,919 –
60 (48)
44,995 7,230116 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
36 Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued
2001 2000
Consolidated balance sheet underUS GAAP £m £m
Assets
Current assets
Cash and cash equivalents 832 1,379
Marketable securities 1,647 3,070
Accounts and notes receivable 3,647 3,336
Inventories 2,090 2,544
Prepaid expenses 744 814
Deferred income taxes 1,242 877
Total current assets 10,202 12,020
Goodwill 17,818 18,796
Intangible assets 24,662 26,161
Property, plant and equipment 7,015 6,832
Investments in affiliates 1,038 1,126
Other assets 491 360
Deferred income taxes 270 491
Total assets 61,496 65,786
Liabilities and Shareholders’ equity
Current liabilities
Cash overdrafts 230 191
Accounts payable 760 812
Short-term borrowings and capital lease obligations 1,894 2,090
Income taxes 1,672 2,070
Dividends payable 555 –
Deferred income taxes 113 155
Other accrued liabilities 3,601 2,711
Total current liabilities 8,825 8,029
Long-term borrowings and capital lease obligations 2,108 1,751
Other liabilities 1,747 1,447
Deferred income taxes 7,847 8,320
Total liabilities 20,527 19,547
Minority interest 862 1,244
Contingencies and commitments Notes 24 and 26
Shareholders’ equity
Common stock, £0.25 per share par value; 10,000,000,000 (2001) and 9,999,800,000 (2000) shares authorised;
6,172,965,989 (2001) and 6,225,662,174 (2000) shares issued 1,543 1,556
Redeemable preference shares, £1.00 per share par value; 50,000 shares authorised,
nil (2001) and 50,000 (2000) shares outstanding – –
Additional paid-in capital 45,532 46,431
Retained deficit and cumulative other comprehensive loss (3,794) (308)
Treasury stock (3,174) (2,684)
Total shareholders’ equity 40,107 44,995
Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity 61,496 65,786
Certain balance sheet items at 31st December 2000 have been reclassified for comparative purposes.Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 117
36 Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued
2001 2000 1999
Consolidated statement of cash flows under USGAAP £m £m £m
Cash flows from operating activities
Net (loss)/income (143) (5,228) 913
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities:
Depreciation 742 427 360
Amortisation of goodwill and intangibles 3,577 735 829
Write-off in-process R&D acquired – 6,324 –
Impairment 253 47 68
Loss/(gain) on sale of fixed assets and other productive assets 99 (152) (132)
Deferred taxes (877) 28 (93)
Tax benefit from exercise of stock options 56 9 –
Income in associate (71) – –
Loss on sale of associate and investment (5) – –
Changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions:
Decrease/(increase) in inventory 550 21 (391)
Increase in trade and other debtors (77) (281) (125)
Increase in trade and other creditors 368 444 85
Increase in pension and other provisions 242 162 347
Derivatives (15) – –
Other (93) – 7
Net cash provided by operating activities 4,606 2,536 1,868
Cash flows from investing activities
Acquisition of fixed assets (1,111) (416) (607)
Acquisition of intangible assets (80) (76) –
Acquisition of SmithKline Beecham – cash received on acquisition – 1,129 –
Acquisition of other new businesses – net of cash acquired (803) (24) (67)
Proceeds from disposition of fixed assets and businesses 211 12 79
Proceeds from sale of intangible fixed assets 6 – –
Decrease/(increase) in liquid investments 1,006 (235) (35)
Decrease/(increase) in equity investments 92 194 (13)
Net cash (used in)/by provided investing activities (679) 584 (643)
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from additional borrowings 973 – 110
Reduction in debt (112) (3) (9)
Purchase of treasury stock (795) (471) (421)
Dividends paid (2,454) (1,334) (1,305)
Net (repayment of)/increase in short-term loans (718) (193) 150
Net increase in/(repayment of) cash overdrafts 38 (121) 40
Redemption of preference shares issued by a subsidiary (457) – –
Ordinary shares purchased for cancellation (1,274) – –
Issue of share capital 338 121 104
Other (28) 13 117
Net cash used in financing activities (4,489) (1,988) (1,214)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (562) 1,132 11
Exchange rate movements 15 1 (5)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 1,379 246 240
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 832 1,379 246
Supplemental cash flow information
Cash paid during the year for:
Interest 196 235 198
Income taxes 1,717 635 672
Non-cash investing and financing activities
Under the purchase acquisition dated 27th December 2000 the Group acquired all the outstanding shares of SmithKline Beecham
in exchange for shares ofGlaxoSmithKline. In conjunction with the acquisition, liabilities were assumed as follows:
Fair value of assets acquired 57,158
Fair value of shares issued 43,919
Fair value of liabilities assumed 13,239118 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
36 Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued (c)The market value of investments has been included in the book
value of SmithKline Beecham’s net assets under US GAAP. The
Acquisition of SmithKline Beecham
increase in investments relates to increases in the fair market
Under US GAAP, the financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline prior tothe
value of non-marketable securities at 31st December 2000.
merger are those of Glaxo Wellcome, the US GAAP accounting acquirer.
Included inthis amount are increases to equity investments.
The acquisition of SmithKline Beecham is accounted for under the
These equity investments have been measured at fair value and
purchase method as of the date of the merger, 27thDecember 2000.
any excess of the fair value over the underlying tangible assets
and liabilities has been recognised as goodwill within investments.
Purchase accounting adjustments
This goodwill was amortised over 20 years in 2001.
In order to determine the proper allocation of purchase price related
to the acquired assets of SmithKline Beecham under US GAAP (d)The fair value attributed to pension obligations reflects the
purchase accounting, the cost of acquisition is calculated using the recognition of previously unrecognised actuarial gains/losses,
market value of the shares issued, the fair value of vested options prior service costs and transition amounts. The amounts recognised
exchanged and direct external acquisition costs and then allocated are based on actuarial assessments at the acquisitiondate.
to the fair value of net assets acquired. As a result of the fair value
(e)The fair value attributed to other intangible assets relates
exercise, increases in the values of SmithKline Beecham’s inventory,
primarily to management’s estimate of the value of product
tangible fixed assets, investments and pension obligations were
rights (inclusive of their respective patents and trademarks)
recognised and fair market values attributed to its other intangible
onexisting products and of the assembled workforce. Thefair
assets, mainly product rights (inclusive of patents and trademarks),
value of the product rights has been determined based on a
assembled workforce and in-process research and development,
discounted net future cash flow analysis of its current approved
together with appropriate deferred taxation effects. The difference
product portfolio which includes all existing approved products
between the cost of acquisition and the fair value of the assets and
within the pharmaceutical therapeutic areas and consumer
liabilities of SmithKline Beecham has been recorded asgoodwill.
healthcare product portfolios. Any supplemental products in the
The amount allocated to in-process research and development is
development process which build upon existing chemical entities
required under US GAAP to be expensed immediately in thefirst
within existing areas andwhich are not subject to separate
reporting period after the business combination, which for
US Food and Drug Administration approval were also included.
GlaxoSmithKline was the period ended 31stDecember 2000. Fair
Management has based the estimates of the weighted average
value adjustments to the recorded amount of inventory were
useful life of the product rights on the future period over which
expensed in 2001 and additional amortisation and depreciation
the substantial majority of the estimated net future cash flow
will berecorded in respect of the fair value adjustments to tangible
value is expected to be realised (approximately 12 years for
and intangible assets and the resulting goodwill over the periods
Pharmaceuticals and 40 years for Consumer Healthcare brands).
of their respective economic useful lives.
The fair value of the assembled workforce is being amortised over
The adjustments to the assets and liabilities of SmithKline Beecham an 11 year period based on SmithKline Beecham’s historical
to reflect the fair values and allocation of the excess purchase turnover rate. This will be considered goodwill under SFAS 142.
consideration over the fair value of net assets acquired, based
(f) The amount of total consideration allocated to SmithKline
onmanagement best estimates of fair value, are summarised in
Beecham’s in-process research and development projects (IPR&D)
thetable opposite and discussed below:
has been estimated using current estimates of the status and
(a)The total assumed purchase consideration was calculated prospects of its R&D portfolio. The IPR&D includes only those
bymultiplying the number of GlaxoSmithKline shares issued identified projects that have advanced to a stage of development
toSmithKline Beecham’s shareholders for all outstanding where management believes reasonable estimates of projected
SmithKline Beecham shares by the average fair value of Glaxo cash flows can be prepared. This does not include basic discovery
Wellcome securities. The average fair value of Glaxo Wellcome and the portfolio of gene patents. The reported IPR&D value is
securities was calculated over a period of four days prior not intended to reflect the present value of all development
to and subsequent to theannouncement of the merger on activities currentlyunderway. The value allocated to the IPR&D
17th January 2000. The total assumed purchase consideration was determined utilising a risk adjusted income approach that
also included the fair value of SmithKline Beecham vested included earnings discounted by the appropriate cost of capital
options exchanged for vested options in GlaxoSmithKline. for the investment. Estimates of future cash flows related to
The total number of SmithKline Beecham vested options was individual IPR&D projects were based on existing estimates of
multiplied bythe respective fair value of each of the ordinary revenues and contribution margin for the project.
shares and ADR plans determined at 17thJanuary 2000.
(g)Additional liabilities relate to restructuring costs directly linked
(b)The increase in fair value of inventory and fixed assets was to plans that were in place at the date of the acquisition. These
determined based on the difference between the carrying value liabilities reflect the costs to close certain SmithKline Beecham
and the market value of these assets. The increase to inventory manufacturing sites and redundancy costs. The other liabilities
was expensed in 2001, as all inventory was sold. The increase relate to additional deferred tax liabilities previously not
infixed assets was allocated to its respective category and recognised.
depreciated over the remaining useful lives of these assets.
(h)Deferred taxes have been computed on the excess of fair value
over book value, other than for goodwill and in-process research
and development, using the applicable weighted average
statutory tax rates.
(i) Goodwill represents the remainder of unallocated purchase
consideration. Goodwill was amortised over its expected
economic life of20 years during 2001.Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 119
36 Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued
Purchase accounting adjustments £m
Total assumed purchase consideration for outstanding shares (a) 43,919
Costs and fees of transaction 66
Less:
Book value of SmithKline Beecham net assets – US GAAP (less goodwill) 2,742
Excess fair value of inventory (b) 267
Excess fair value of tangible fixed assets (b) 15
Excess fair value of investments (c) 1,042
Excess fair value of pension asset (d) 81
Fair value attributed to other intangible assets (e) 24,382
Fair value attributed to workforce (e) 483
Fair value attributed of in-process R&D projects (f) 6,324
Additional liabilities assumed (g) (110)
Deferred tax liabilities related to purchase price adjustments (h) (7,669)
Goodwill (i) 16,428
Acquisition of SmithKline Beecham plc and Block Drug Company, Inc. – pro forma results (unaudited)
The following table reflects the results of operations on a US GAAP pro forma basis as if the January 2001 acquisition of Block Drug had
been completed on 1st January 2000 and the December 2000 acquisition of SmithKline Beecham had been completed on 1st January 2000.
The pro forma results of operations include amortisation of acquired goodwill and intangibles, butdonot include the write-off of in-process
R&D orinventory adjustments.
2001 2000
£m £m
Net sales 20,489 18,079
Earnings before interest, income taxes and minority interest 846 2,842
Net income 75 671
pence pence
Earnings per share 1.2 10.9
Diluted earnings per share 1.2 10.8
$ $
Earnings per ADS 0.04 0.33
Diluted earnings per ADS 0.04 0.33
The pro forma financial information is not necessarily indicative of theoperating results that would have occurred had the acquisition been
consummated as of the dates indicated, nor is it necessarily indicative of future operating results.120 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
36 Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued
The following is a summary of the material adjustments to profit and shareholders’ funds which would be required if US GAAP had been
applied instead of UK GAAP. These adjustments have been reflected in the balance sheet and income statements presented in accordance
with USGAAP.
2001 2000 1999
Profit £m £m £m
Profit attributable to shareholders under UK GAAP 3,059 4,154 2,859
Less: SmithKline Beecham’s pre-acquisition profit attributable to
shareholders under UK GAAP and merger alignment adjustments – (2,237) (1,048)
USGAAP adjustments:
Write-off of SmithKline Beecham in-process R&D acquired – (6,324) –
Capitalised interest 18 15 15
Computer software (3) 13 (5)
Purchased intangibles (140) – –
Amortisation of goodwill (1,261) (559) (554)
Amortisation of intangible assets (2,266) (166) (266)
Recognition of cost of sales on fair value step-up of inventory (298) – –
Disposal of purchased investment (117) – –
Loss on disposal of subsidiary 204 – –
Pensions (12) 75 22
Stock-based compensation (162) (263) (203)
Provision against ESOT shares (108) 26 –
Derivative instruments 15 – –
Restructuring 182 – –
Tax benefits on exercise of US stock options (56) – –
Merger transaction costs – 66 –
Deferred taxation 877 (28) 93
Impairment of equity investments (75) – –
Net (loss)/income under US GAAP (143) (5,228) 913
2001 2000
Equity shareholders’ funds £m £m
Equity shareholders’ funds under UK GAAP 7,517 7,711
USGAAPadjustments:
Inventory – 267
Tangible fixed assets 44 45
Investments 879 1,042
Workforce 439 483
Product rights 22,927 24,945
Capitalised interest 155 136
Computer software (29) (21)
Goodwill 17,644 18,626
Other intangible assets (377) (190)
Unrealised gains on marketable securities 163 724
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits 299 305
Employee Share Ownership Trust (2,936) (2,327)
Restructuring costs (46) 35
Derivative instruments 29 (15)
Dividends 718 1,234
Deferred taxation (7,319) (8,005)
Shareholders’ equity under US GAAP 40,107 44,995
Certain items for the year ended 31st December 2000 have been reclassified for comparative purposes.Notes to the financial statements GlaxoSmithKline 121
36 Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued
Earnings per share under US GAAP
2001 2000 1999
Weighted average number of shares in issue millions millions millions
Basic 6,064 3,591 3,622
Adjustments:
Share options 52 35 17
Diluted 6,116 3,626 3,639
ADSShares held by the Employee Share Ownership Trusts are excluded from shares in issue.
Taxation
2001 2000 1999
Total tax expense £m £m £m
UK GAAP:
Current tax expense 1,386 808 761
Deferred tax expense (59) (37) (15)
Total tax expense 1,327 771 746
US GAAP:
Current tax expense 1,442 817 761
Deferred tax expense (936) (9) (108)
Total tax expense 506 808 653
Deferred taxation under USGAAP
Classification of GlaxoSmithKline’s deferred taxation liabilities and assets under US GAAP is as follows:
2001 2000
£m £m
Liabilities
Stock valuation adjustment (113) (155)
Current deferred taxation liabilities (113) (155)
Accelerated capital allowances (691) (644)
Unremitted foreign investment income – –
Product rights (6,126) (7,280)
Other timing differences (1,030) (396)
Total deferred taxation liabilities (7,960) (8,475)
Assets
Intra-Group profit 375 314
Other timing differences 867 563
Current deferred taxation assets 1,242 877
Asset disposal (161) 10
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits 221 217
Manufacturing restructuring 71 55
Tax losses 97 209
Other timing differences 42 –
Total deferred taxation assets 1,512 1,368
Net deferred taxation under US GAAP (6,448) (7,107)
The difference between the UK effective taxation rate and the US effective taxation rate is primarily related to the fair value adjustments for
goodwill and intangibles related to the acquisition of Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham.122 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
36 Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued
Segment information under USGAAP
Under UK GAAP, the segment information presented in Note 6 includes results of operations and other information on a historical
combined Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham basis for 2001, 2000 and 1999.
Under US GAAP, the segment information for results of operations for 2001 reflects the merged operations of GlaxoSmithKline, while for
2000 and 1999 it relates to Glaxo Wellcome only as all of these periods are, for practical purposes, regarded as being prior to the
acquisition of SmithKline Beecham. Glaxo Wellcome operated in only one segment – Pharmaceuticals. Segment information in respect of
assets relates to Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham on a consolidated basis at 31st December 2001 and 2000 as the acquisition of
SmithKline Beecham by Glaxo Wellcome occurred on 27th December 2000.
2001 2000 1999
Turnover by location of customer £m £m £m
USA 10,087 4,314 3,557
Europe 5,855 2,959 2,897
Rest of the World 4,547 2,286 2,036
External turnover 20,489 9,559 8,490
Turnover by business sector
Pharmaceuticals 17,205 9,559 8,490
Consumer Healthcare 3,284 – –
External turnover 20,489 9,559 8,490
Operating profit/(loss) by business sector
Pharmaceuticals 565 (4,456) 1,634
Consumer Healthcare 25 – –
Operating profit/(loss) 590 (4,456) 1,634
Turnover by location of subsidiary undertaking
USA 10,517 4,494 3,710
Europe 10,704 5,375 4,945
Rest of the World 7,540 3,370 3,675
Gross turnover 28,761 13,239 12,330
USA (327) (176) (150)
Europe (4,372) (2,271) (1,902)
Rest of the World (3,573) (1,233) (1,788)
Inter-segment turnover (8,272) (3,680) (3,840)
USA 10,190 4,318 3,560
Europe 6,332 3,104 3,043
Rest of the World 3,967 2,137 1,887
External turnover 20,489 9,559 8,490
Profit before tax by location of subsidiary undertaking
USA (938) (2,850) 376
Europe 1,305 (670) 1,531
Rest of the World 223 (936) (273)
Operating profit/(loss) 590 (4,456) 1,634
Share of profits of joint ventures and associated undertakings 71 – 3
(Loss)/profit on disposal of subsidiary and associate (113) 144 39
Net interest payable (54) (87) (92)
Profit/(loss) before taxation 494 (4,399) 1,584
Profit/(loss) before taxation 494 (4,399) 1,584
Taxation (506) (808) (653)
Minority interests and preference share dividends (131) (21) (18)
Earnings/Net income/(loss) (143) (5,228) 913Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 123
36 Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued
2001 2000
Total assets by business sector £m £m
Pharmaceuticals 52,500 54,005
Consumer Healthcare 8,996 11,781
Total assets 61,496 65,786
Total assets by location of subsidiary undertaking
USA 25,798 27,418
Europe 20,922 20,364
Rest of the World 12,297 13,555
Total operating assets 59,017 61,337
Cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities 2,479 4,449
Total assets 61,496 65,786
At 31.12.01
Plant,
Land and equipment Computer Assets in Total Total
buildings and vehicles software construction 2001 2000
Tangible fixed assets by location of subsidiary undertaking £m £m £m £m £m £m
USA 803 450 20 338 1,611 1,540
Europe 1,453 1,771 149 837 4,210 4,078
Rest of the World 573 449 7 165 1,194 1,214
Total 2,829 2,670 176 1,340 7,015 6,832
UK segment
Information is given separately in respect of the UK, which, although included in the Group’s Europe market region, is considered the
Group’s home segment for the purposes of segmental reporting.
2001 2000 1999
£m £m £m
Turnover by location of customer 1,328 474 487
Gross turnover 5,388 1,241 1,216
Inter-segment turnover (3,753) (562) (532)
Turnover by location of subsidiary 1,635 679 684
Operating profit 321 370 1,395
Total assets 6,962 8,492124 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
36 Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued
Pensions under USGAAP
The SFAS 132 disclosures for the year ended 31st December 2001 are provided in relation to the employees of GlaxoSmithKline. For 2000 the
income statement disclosures are provided in relation to the employees of Glaxo Wellcome only and the balance sheet disclosures are
provided on a consolidated basis in relation to the employees of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham. For 1999 the disclosures are
provided in relation to the employees of Glaxo Wellcome only.
The average number of persons employed by the Group
2001 2000 1999
(including Directors) during the year Number Number Number
Manufacturing 37,154 20,477 21,596
Selling, general and administration 55,655 30,765 29,294
Research and development 15,090 9,659 9,836
107,899 60,901 60,726
2001 2000 1999
Pension and other post-retirement costs £m £m £m
UK pension schemes 26 6 4
US pension schemes 70 59 51
Other overseas pension schemes 70 31 26
Unfunded post-retirement healthcare schemes 57 16 16
Post-employment costs 28 7 8
251 119 105
Analysed as:
Funded defined benefit/hybrid schemes 123 57 49
Unfunded defined benefit schemes 11 10 8
Defined contribution schemes 32 29 24
Unfunded post-retirement healthcare schemes 57 16 16
Post-employment costs 28 7 8
251 119 105
The disclosures below include the additional information required by SFAS 132. The pension costs of the UK, US and major overseas
defined benefit pension plans have been restated in the following tables in accordance with US GAAP. Pension costs in 2001 of £17 million
(2000 – £35 million, 1999 – £20 million) in respect of minor retirement plans, which have not been recalculated in accordance with the
requirements of SFAS 87, have been excluded.
2001 2000 1999
The net periodic pension cost/(income) for the major retirement plans comprised: £m £m £m
Service cost 194 119 105
Interest cost 351 161 135
Expected return on plan assets (508) (253) (191)
Amortisation of prior service cost 15 16 5
Amortisation of transition obligation (9) (12) (11)
Recognised net actuarial gain (57) (70) (36)
Net periodic pension cost/(income) under US GAAP (14) (39) 7
Termination benefits and curtailment costs 2 7 9
The major assumptions used in computing the above pension income/cost were: %pa %pa %pa
Rates of future pay increases 4.5 4.6 4.0
Discount rate 6.25 6.5 6.0
Expected long-term rates of return on plan assets 8.25 7.0 7.1
In aggregate, average international plan assumptions did not vary significantly from US assumptions.Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 125
36 Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued
2001 2000
Change in benefit obligation £m £m
Benefit obligation at beginning of year 5,560 2,500
Amendments 32 160
Service cost 194 119
Interest cost 351 161
Plan participants’ contributions 30 20
Actuarial loss 114 198
Benefits paid (260) (127)
Acquisition 326 2,499
Termination benefits and curtailment costs 2 7
Exchange 23 23
Benefit obligation at end of year 6,372 5,560
Benefit obligation at end of year for pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets 2,995 1,465
2001 2000
Change in plan assets £m £m
Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year 6,452 3,678
Actual return on plan assets (1,106) 514
Employer contribution 82 35
Plan participants’ contributions 30 20
Benefits paid (260) (127)
Acquisition 146 2,310
Exchange 41 22
Fair value of plan assets at end of year 5,385 6,452
Fair value of plan assets at end of year for pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets 2,484 1,138
Plan assets consist primarily of investments in UK and overseas equities, fixed interest securities, securities linked to the UK index of Retail
Price Inflation and property. At 31st December 2001 UK equities included 5.3 million GlaxoSmithKline shares (2000: 5.7 million
GlaxoWellcome shares) with a market value of £91 million (2000 – £108 million).
2001 2000
Funded status £m £m
Funded status (987) 892
Unrecognised net actuarial (gain)/loss 724 (1,050)
Unrecognised prior service cost 152 169
Unrecognised transition obligation 24 (21)
Other 3 –
Net amount recognised (84) (10)
2001 2000
Amounts recognised in the statement of financial position consist of: £m £m
Prepaid benefit cost 353 285
Accrued pension liability (437) (295)
Additional required liability (373) –
Intangible asset 36 –
Accumulated other comprehensive income 337 –
Net amount recognised (84) (10)126 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
36 Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued
Post-retirement healthcare under USGAAP
The disclosures for 2001 are provided in relation to the employees of GlaxoSmithKline. For 2000 the income statement disclosures are
provided in relation to the employees of Glaxo Wellcome only and the balance sheet disclosures are provided on a consolidated basis in
relation to the employees of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham. The disclosures for 1999 are provided in relation to the employees
of Glaxo Wellcome only.
2001 2000 1999
Net healthcare cost £m £m £m
Service cost 15 5 6
Interest cost 40 13 11
Amortisation of prior service cost (3) (2) (1)
Net healthcare cost 52 16 16
The major assumptions used in calculating the net healthcare cost were: %pa %pa %pa
Rate of future healthcare inflation 7.0 to 5.0 7.8 to 4.9 8.2 to 4.7
Discount rate 7.3 7.2 7.1
The rate of future healthcare inflation rate reflects the fact that the benefits of certain groups of participants are capped.
2001 2000
Change in benefit obligation £m £m
Benefit obligation at beginning of year 583 159
Amendments (1) (3)
Service cost 15 5
Interest cost 40 13
Plan participants’ contributions 2 1
Actuarial loss 202 11
Benefits paid (31) (11)
Acquisition (32) 400
Curtailments (2) –
Exchange 12 8
Benefit obligation at end of year 788 583
Change in plan assets
Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year – –
Employer and plan participants’ contributions 31 11
Benefits paid (31) (11)
Fair value of plan assets at end of year – –
Funded status
Funded status (788) (583)
Unrecognised net actuarial loss 216 22
Unrecognised prior service cost (20) (20)
Other 8 –
Accrued post-retirement healthcare cost (584) (581)
1% decrease 1% increase
The impact of a 1 per cent variation in the rate of future healthcare inflation would be: £m £m
Effect on total service and interest cost (7) 5
Effect on provision for post-retirement benefits (78) 63Notes to the financial statements GlaxoSmithKline 127
37 Principal Group companies
The following represent the principal subsidiary and associated undertakings of the GlaxoSmithKline Group at 31stDecember 2001.
Details are given of: the country of incorporation and principal country of operation; the location of the headquarters; the business
segment; the business activities. The share capital of these undertakings, comprising ordinary shares, is wholly owned by the Group
except where its interest is shown otherwise.
Europe Location Subsidiary undertaking Segment Activity %
England Greenford GlaxoSmithKline Services plc (formerly Glaxo Wellcome plc) Ph h
Brentford SmithKline Beecham plc Ph,CH h r d p m e
Greenford Glaxo Group Ltd Ph h
Brentford SmithKline Beecham Research Ltd Ph m
Brentford SmithKline Beecham (Investments) Ltd Ph,CH f
Brentford GlaxoSmithKline Research & Development Ltd Ph r d
(formerly Glaxo Wellcome Research & Development Ltd)
Brentford GlaxoSmithKline Export Ltd (formerly Glaxo Wellcome Export Ltd) Ph e
Greenford The Wellcome Foundation Ltd Ph h r d p
Greenford Wellcome Limited Ph,CH h
Brentford SmithKline Beecham (SWG) Ltd CH m e
Stockley Park Glaxo Operations UK Ltd Ph p
Stockley Park Glaxo Wellcome UK Ltd Ph h p m
Brentford Stafford-Miller Ltd CH p m
Austria Vienna GlaxoSmithKline Pharma GmbH (formerly Glaxo Wellcome Pharma GmbH) Ph m
Belgium Genval GlaxoSmithKline Belgium SA (formerly Glaxo Wellcome Belgium SA) Ph m
Rixensart GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals SA (formerly SmithKline Beecham Biologicals SA) Ph p e
Wavre GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals Manufacturing SA Ph p e
(formerly SmithKline Beecham Biologicals Manufacturing SA)
Channel St. Peter Port S.B. Insurance Ltd Ph,CH i
Islands
Denmark Ballerup SmithKline Beecham a/s CH m
Brøndby GlaxoSmithKline Pharma a/s (formerly Glaxo Wellcome a/s) Ph m
Finland Espoo GlaxoSmithKline Oy (formerly Glaxo Wellcome Oy) Ph m
France Paris GlaxoSmithKline Sante Grand Publique (formerly SmithKline Beecham CH m
Santé et Hygiene SAS)
Paris Groupe Glaxo Wellcome Ph r p m
Germany Buehl GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare GmbH & Co KG (formerly SmithKline CH m
Beecham GmbH & Co KG)
Munich SmithKline Beecham GmbH Ph m
Greece Athens Glaxo Wellcome AEBE Ph h p m
Athens SmithKline Beecham CISA Ph,CH m
Hungary Budapest GlaxoSmithKline Kft (formerly SmithKline Beecham Kft) Ph,CH m
Ireland Carrigaline SmithKline Beecham (Cork) Ltd (Note (i)) Ph p
Carrigaline SmithKline Beecham (Manufacturing)Ltd (Note (i)) Ph p
Dublin Glaxo Wellcome International (Note (i)) Ph,CH h
Dublin SmithKline Beecham (Ireland) Ltd (Note (i)) Ph,CH m
Dublin Sterling Health Ltd (Note (i)) CH m
Dublin SmithKline Beecham Consumer Brands Ltd (Note (i)) CH m
Dublin Beecham Products (Ireland) Ltd (Note (i)) CH m
Dublin SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals Ltd (Note (i)) Ph m
Italy Verona GlaxoSmithKline SpA (formerly Glaxo Wellcome SpA) Ph m
Milan GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare SpA (formerly Maggioni SpA) CH h m
Luxembourg GlaxoSmithKline International (Luxembourg) SA Ph,CH h
GlaxoSmithKline Luxembourg SA Ph,CH h128 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
37 Principal Group companies continued
Europe Location Subsidiary undertaking Segment Activity %
Netherlands Rijswijk GlaxoSmithKline BV (formerly SmithKline Beecham Farma BV) Ph m
Zeist GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Brands B.V (formerly SmithKline Beecham CH m
Consumer Brands BV)
Zeist Glaxo Wellcome International BV Ph,CH h
Zeist Glaxo Wellcome Investments BV Ph,CH h
Norway Oslo GlaxoSmithKline AS (formerly Glaxo Wellcome AS) Ph m
Poland Poznan GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals SA (formerly Glaxo Wellcome SA) Ph p m 97
Warsaw GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare sp zoo (formerly SmithKline CH m
Beecham Polska Sp Zoo)
Portugal Lisbon Instituto Luso-Farmaco Lda Ph m
Spain Madrid Glaxo Wellcome SA Ph r p m
Madrid SmithKline Beecham SA Ph m
Sweden Mölndal GlaxoSmithKline AB (formerly SmithKline Beecham AB) Ph m
Switzerland Thoerihaus GlaxoSmithKline Investments (Switzerland) GmbH Ph,CH h
Thoerihaus GlaxoSmithKline International (Switzerland) GmbH Ph,CH h
Berne Glaxo Wellcome AG Ph m
Zug Adechsa GmbH Ph e
Turkey Istanbul Glaxo Wellcome ISAS Ph p m
USA
USA Philadelphia SmithKline Beecham Corporation Ph,CH h r d p m e
Pittsburgh GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare LP (formerly SmithKline CH p m 47
Beecham Consumer Healthcare LP) (Note (ii))
Jersey City Block Drug Company Inc CH h p m
Wilmington GlaxoSmithKline Financial Inc (formerly Glaxo Wellcome Financial Inc) Ph,CH f
Wilmington SmithKline Beecham Holdings Corporation Ph,CH h
Wilmington GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (Americas) Inc Ph,CH h
(formerly SmithKline Beecham Holdings (Americas) Inc)
Americas
Bermuda Hamilton GlaxoSmithKline Insurance Ltd Ph,CH i
(formerly Glaxo Wellcome Insurance (Bermuda) Ltd)
Canada Mississauga GlaxoSmithKline Inc Ph,CH r p m
Asia Pacific
Australia Boronia Glaxo Wellcome Australia Ltd Ph p m
Dandenong SmithKline Beecham (Australia) Pty Ltd Ph,CH m
China Hong Kong Glaxo Wellcome China Ltd Ph m
Tianjin Sino-American Tianjin Smith Kline & French Laboratories Ltd Ph m 55
India Mumbai GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Ltd (formerly Glaxo India Ltd) (Note (ii)) Ph p m 49
Nabha SmithKline Beecham Consumer Healthcare Ltd (Note (ii)) CH p m 40
Malaysia Selangor GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceutical Sdn Bhd Ph m
Darul Ehsan (formerly Glaxo Wellcome (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd)
New Zealand Auckland Glaxo Wellcome New Zealand Ltd Ph p m
Pakistan Karachi Glaxo Wellcome (Pakistan) Ltd Ph p m 70
Karachi Beecham Pakistan (Private) Ltd Ph,CH m
Philippines Manila Glaxo Wellcome Philippines Inc Ph m
Singapore Singapore Glaxo Wellcome Manufacturing Pte Ltd Ph p
South Korea Seoul GlaxoSmithKline Korea (formerly Glaxo Wellcome Korea) Ph p m
Taiwan Taipei Glaxo Wellcome Taiwan Ltd Ph p mNotes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 129
37 Principal Group companies continued
Japan Location Subsidiary undertaking Segment Activity %
Japan Tokyo GlaxoSmithKline KK (formerly Glaxo Wellcome KK) Ph r p m 85
Kobe Block Drug (Japan) Inc CH m
Latin America
Argentina Buenos Aires GlaxoSmithKline Argentina SA (formerly SmithKline Beecham Argentina SA) Ph,CH m p
Brazil Rio de Janeiro Glaxo Wellcome SA Ph p m
Rio de Janeiro SmithKline Beecham Brasil Ltda Ph,CH m
Colombia Bogota GlaxoSmithKline Colombia SA (formerly SmithKline Beecham Colombia SA) Ph,CH m
Mexico Mexico City Glaxo Wellcome Mexico, SA de CV Ph p m
Cuernavaca SmithKline Beecham Mexico SA de CV Ph,CH p m
Puerto Rico San Juan Glaxo Wellcome Puerto Rico Inc Ph m
Hato Rey SB Pharmco Puerto Rico Inc Ph p
Venezuela Caracas Glaxo Wellcome CA Ph p m
Middle East
Africa
Egypt Cairo Glaxo Wellcome Egypt SAE Ph p m 89
South Africa Midrand Glaxo Wellcome South Africa (Pty) Ltd Ph p m
Johannesburg SmithKline Beecham Consumer Healthcare (Pty) Ltd CH p m
USA Location Associated undertaking %
USA Teterboro, Quest Diagnostics, Inc. 23
New Jersey
Notes
(i) Exempt from the provisions of Section 7 of the Companies (Amendment)Act 1986 (Ireland)
(ii) Consolidated as a subsidiary undertaking in accordance with Section 258 (4)(a) of the Companies Act on the grounds of significant
influence.
Business segment: PhPharmaceuticals, CHConsumer Healthcare
Business activity: ddevelopment, eexporting, ffinance, hholding company, iinsurance, mmarketing, pproduction, rresearch
Full details of all Group subsidiary and associated undertakings will be attached to the company’s Annual Return to be filed with the
Registrar ofCompanies.130 GlaxoSmithKline
Principal financial statements in US$
The following information is provided for the convenience of US shareholders in accordance with the requirements of the New York
StockExchange. The principal financial statements, prepared under UKGAAP and in sterling, have been translated into US$ – the
consolidated profit and loss account, consolidated statement of recognised gains and losses and consolidated cash flow statement at
average exchange rates and the consolidated balance sheet at period end exchange rates. The exchange rates used are given in Note 4
tothe Financial statements.
Consolidated profit and loss account
2001 2000 1999
Business Other Total Business Other Total Business Other Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Turnover 29,504 – 29,504 27,480 – 27,480 27,210 – 27,210
Cost of sales (6,379) (437) (6,816) (5,793) (230) (6,023) (6,375) (646) (7,021)
Gross profit 23,125 (437) 22,688 21,687 (230) 21,457 20,835 (646) 20,189
Selling, general and
administrative expenditure (10,730) (1,378) (12,108) (10,232) (614) (10,846) (9,998) (120) (10,118)
Research and development
expenditure (3,679) (138) (3,817) (3,815) (24) (3,839) (3,704) – (3,704)
Trading profit 8,716 (1,953) 6,763 7,640 (868) 6,772 7,133 (766) 6,367
Other operating income/(expense) 54 – 54 416 – 416 669 – 669
Operating profit 8,770 (1,953) 6,817 8,056 (868) 7,188 7,802 (766) 7,036
Share of profits/(losses) of
joint ventures and associates 102 – 102 99 (12) 87 24 (13) 11
Profit on disposal of interest in associate 138 – 138 219 – 219 63 – 63
Product divestments – – – – 2,152 2,152 – – –
Merger transaction costs – – – – (184) (184) – – –
Disposal of businesses:
Loss on disposal – (426) (426) – (21) (21) – (1,028) (1,028)
Utilisation of provision – – – – – – – 1,043 1,043
Profit before interest 9,010 (2,379) 6,631 8,374 1,067 9,441 7,889 (764) 7,125
Net interest payable (127) – (127) (277) – (277) (262) – (262)
Profit on ordinary activities
before taxation 8,883 (2,379) 6,504 8,097 1,067 9,164 7,627 (764) 6,863
Taxation (2,371) 461 (1,910) (2,210) (372) (2,582) (2,150) 176 (1,974)
Profit on ordinary activities
after taxation 6,512 (1,918) 4,594 5,887 695 6,582 5,477 (588) 4,889
Minority interests (140) – (140) (183) – (183) (178) – (178)
Preference share dividends (49) – (49) (85) – (85) (79) – (79)
Earnings (Profit attributable
to shareholders) 6,323 (1,918) 4,405 5,619 695 6,314 5,220 (588) 4,632
US$ US$ US$
Earnings per ADS 1.45 2.08 1.51
Adjusted earnings per ADS 2.09 1.85 1.71
A columnar presentation of the profit and loss account has been adopted in order to illustrate underlying business performance which is
the primary measure used by management. Forthispurpose certain items are excluded from business performance, the ‘Business’ column,
and are presented in the ‘Other’ column. These items comprise: merger items, including product divestments; costs relating to previously
announced manufacturing and other restructurings; the effect of business disposals in prior years.
Consolidated statement of total
2001 2000 1999
recognised gains and losses $m $m $m
Profit attributable to shareholders 4,405 6,314 4,632
Exchange movements on overseas net assets (526) (682) (674)
UK tax on exchange movements – (52) (71)
Total recognised gains and losses 3,879 5,580 3,887Principal financial statements in US$GlaxoSmithKline 131
Consolidated cash flow statement 2001 2000 1999
$m $m $m
Net cash inflow from operating activities 9,370 8,271 7,801
Earnings from joint ventures and associated undertakings – 2 3
Returns on investment and servicing of finance (275) (490) (510)
Taxation paid (2,472) (1,885) (1,774)
Capital expenditure and financial investment (2,562) (497) (3,630)
Acquisitions and disposals (946) 100 1,576
Equity dividends paid (3,348) (3,083) (2,969)
Net cash (outflow)/inflow before management of liquid resources and financing (233) 2,418 497
Management of liquid resources 1,431 (339) (58)
Financing (2,079) (830) (283)
(Decrease)/increase in cash in the year (881) 1,249 156
Consolidated balance sheet 2001 2000
$m $m
Goodwill 252 253
Intangible assets 2,426 1,439
Tangible assets 9,925 9,897
Investments 4,681 3,791
Fixed assets 17,284 15,380
Equity investments 268 255
Stocks 3,031 3,393
Debtors 8,107 8,044
Liquid investments 2,052 3,186
Cash at bank 1,038 1,912
Current assets 14,496 16,790
Loans and overdrafts (3,080) (3,399)
Other creditors (10,594) (10,137)
Creditors: amounts due within one year (13,674) (13,536)
Net current assets 822 3,254
Total assets less current liabilities 18,106 18,634
Loans (3,056) (2,609)
Other creditors (276) (213)
Creditors: amounts due after one year (3,332) (2,822)
Provisions for liabilities and charges (2,624) (2,469)
Net assets 12,150 13,343
Called up share capital 2,237 2,318
Share premium account 247 45
Other reserves 2,706 2,755
Profit and loss account 5,710 6,371
Equity shareholders’ funds 10,900 11,489
Non-equity minority interest 900 1,548
Equity minority interests 350 306
Capital employed 12,150 13,343132 GlaxoSmithKline
Financial record
Quarterly trend
An analysis is provided by quarter of the Group results in sterling for the financial year 2001. The analysis is of:
business performance results; total results; pharmaceutical sales by therapeutic area.
Profit and loss account – business performance 12 months 2001 Q4 2001
£m CER % £m CER %
Sales – Pharmaceuticals 17,205 9 4,719 9
– Consumer Healthcare 3,284 22 897 24
Total sales 20,489 11 5,616 11
Cost of sales (4,430) (15) (1,264) (22)
Selling, general and administrative expenditure (7,451) (8) (1,918) (3)
Research and development expenditure (2,555) 1 (708) 2
Operating costs (14,436) (9) (3,890) (8)
Trading profit – Pharmaceuticals 5,499 15 1,535 19
– Consumer Healthcare 554 23 191 36
Total trading profit 6,053 16 1,726 21
Other operating income/(expense) 37 5
Operating profit 6,090 11 1,731 10
Share of profits/(losses) of joint ventures and associated undertakings 71 17
Profit on disposal of interest in associate 96 –
Profit before interest 6,257 1,748
Net interest payable (88) (18)
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 6,169 12 1,730 11
Taxation (1,647) (462)
Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 4,522 12 1,268 12
Minority interests (97) (29)
Preference share dividends (34) (7)
Earnings (Profit attributable to shareholders) 4,391 14 1,232 14
Earnings per share 72.4p 14 20.4p 14
Profit and loss account – total
Sales – Pharmaceuticals 17,205 4,719
– Consumer Healthcare 3,284 897
Total sales 20,489 5,616
Cost of sales (4,733) (1,426)
Selling, general and administrative expenditure (8,408) (2,122)
Research and development expenditure (2,651) (742)
Operating costs (15,792) (4,290)
Trading profit – Pharmaceuticals 4,268 1,174
– Consumer Healthcare 429 152
Total trading profit 4,697 1,326
Other operating income/(expense) 37 5
Operating profit 4,734 1,331
Share of profits/(losses) of joint ventures and associated undertakings 71 17
Profit on disposal of interest in associate 96 -–
Disposal of businesses (296) 6
Product divestments – –
Merger transaction costs – –
Profit before interest 4,605 1,354
Net interest payable (88) (18)
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 4,517 1,336
Taxation (1,327) (324)
Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 3,190 1,012
Minority interests (97) (29)
Preference share dividends (34) (7)
Earnings (Profit attributable to shareholders) 3,059 976
Earnings per share 50.4p 16.1pFinancial record GlaxoSmithKline 133
9 months 2001 Q3 2001 6 months 2001 Q2 2001 Q1 2001
£m CER % £m CER % £m CER % £m CER % £m CER %
12,486 9 4,184 10 8,302 8 4,320 8 3,982 8
2,387 22 810 27 1,577 19 802 19 775 19
14,873 10 4,994 12 9,879 10 5,122 10 4,757 9
(3,166) (13) (1,071) (16) (2,095) (11) (1,077) (8) (1,018) (15)
(5,533) (9) (1,867) (9) (3,666) (10) (1,882) (11) (1,784) (8)
(1,847) – (640) 1 (1,207) – (621) 2 (586) (3)
(10,546) (9) (3,578) (9) (6,968) (9) (3,580) (8) (3,388) (9)
3,964 14 1,272 17 2,692 13 1,423 15 1,269 10
363 17 144 27 219 11 119 12 100 11
4,327 14 1,416 18 2,911 12 1,542 14 1,369 10
32 (59) 91 67 24
4,359 11 1,357 13 3,002 11 1,609 12 1,393 9
54 19 35 20 15
96 – 96 96 –
4,509 1,376 3,133 1,725 1,408
(70) (27) (43) (23) (20)
4,439 12 1,349 16 3,090 10 1,702 9 1,388 11
(1,185) (360) (825) (454) (371)
3,254 13 989 17 2,265 11 1,248 10 1,017 12
(68) (23) (45) (22) (23)
(27) (6) (21) (8) (13)
3,159 15 960 19 2,199 13 1,218 13 981 13
52.0p 14 15.8p 18 36.2p 13 20.0p 13 16.2p 13
12,486 4,184 8,302 4,320 3,982
2,387 810 1,577 802 775
14,873 4,994 9,879 5,122 4,757
(3,307) (1,150) (2,157) (1,112) (1,045)
(6,287) (2,129) (4,158) (2,065) (2,093)
(1,908) (657) (1,251) (656) (595)
(11,502) (3,936) (7,566) (3,833) (3,733)
3,094 936 2,158 1,218 940
277 122 155 71 84
3,371 1,058 2,313 1,289 1,024
32 (59) 91 67 24
3,403 999 2,404 1,356 1,048
54 19 35 20 15
96 – 96 96 –
(302) (301) (1) – (1)
– – – – –
– – – – –
3,251 717 2,534 1,472 1,062
(70) (27) (43) (23) (20)
3,181 690 2,491 1,449 1,042
(1,003) (287) (716) (398) (318)
2,178 403 1,775 1,051 724
(68) (23) (45) (22) (23)
(27) (6) (21) (8) (13)
2,083 374 1,709 1,021 688
34.3p 6.1p 28.2p 16.9p 11.3p134 GlaxoSmithKline Financial record
Pharmaceutical sales – total Group
Q4 2001 Q3 2001 Q2 2001 Q1 2001
£m CER % £m CER % £m CER % £m CER %
CNS 1,137 21 983 8 986 17 901 17
Depression 736 33 607 8 597 22 564 19
Seroxat/Paxil 547 28 439 – 437 19 434 17
Wellbutrin 189 50 168 40 160 30 130 25
Migraine 232 5 221 10 221 4 175 1
Imigran/Imitrex 208 3 198 9 198 3 154 (1)
Naramig/Amerge 24 16 23 12 23 10 21 21
Lamictal 102 22 89 23 90 16 74 18
Requip 16 (7) 23 48 19 32 17 31
Zyban 26 (30) 22 (34) 35 58 46 >100
Respiratory 972 21 871 36 912 21 782 21
Flixotide/Flovent, Serevent,
Seretide/Advair 664 26 613 53 619 40 514 36
Flixotide/Flovent 207 (20) 219 7 254 10 235 18
Serevent 139 (24) 154 7 171 3 181 25
Seretide/Advair 318 >100 240 >100 194 >100 98 >100
Flixonase/Flonase 131 26 116 20 131 8 126 27
Ventolin 83 (12) 69 (1) 82 (17) 72 (5)
Becotide 43 (14) 37 (17) 39 (26) 42 (28)
Anti-bacterials 766 6 543 – 585 – 710 5
Augmentin 449 19 278 (1) 291 10 403 19
Zinnat/Ceftin 110 (18) 74 – 113 8 112 (12)
Fortum 58 6 50 9 51 (12) 50 (9)
Amoxil 40 (22) 33 (17) 32 (44) 44 (17)
Anti-virals 601 12 533 15 521 6 473 5
HIV 372 15 340 16 337 13 298 12
Trizivir 65 >100 46 >100 38 – 18 –
Combivir 158 (1) 150 3 153 4 145 15
Epivir 79 (7) 74 (3) 77 (4) 72 (6)
Retrovir 15 (8) 14 – 14 (17) 12 (20)
Ziagen 43 3 42 1 43 5 39 10
Agenerase 12 (6) 14 (1) 12 (16) 12 (3)
Herpes 183 10 154 8 160 (4) 149 6
Valtrex 103 34 89 54 82 38 76 47
Zovirax 80 (10) 65 (22) 78 (27) 73 (18)
Zeffix 27 23 27 49 27 69 22 73
Metabolic and gastro-intestinal 324 (8) 400 24 416 19 340 7
Avandia 110 (20) 226 94 220 84 151 43
Zantac 141 (4) 111 (14) 131 (15) 122 (10)
Vaccines 255 16 241 9 242 8 210 6
Hepatitis 117 2 110 (8) 110 (11) 108 (8)
Infanrix 62 34 54 28 70 44 52 38
Oncology and emesis 215 6 217 20 225 20 181 10
Zofran 156 16 153 20 160 24 132 15
Hycamtin 15 (47) 27 16 27 10 21 (2)
Cardiovascular 175 41 141 9 150 18 125 25
Coreg 84 >100 60 24 58 36 49 76
Arthritis (Relafen) 23 (53) 32 (46) 50 (14) 51 (1)
Other 251 (3) 223 (3) 233 (5) 209 (4)
Total pharmaceutical sales 4,719 12 4,184 13 4,320 12 3,982 11Financial recordGlaxoSmithKline 135
Pharmaceutical sales – USA Q4 2001 Q3 2001 Q2 2001 Q1 2001
£m CER % £m CER % £m CER % £m CER %
CNS 817 24 702 5 693 16 623 13
Depression 560 39 457 3 440 21 423 17
Seroxat/Paxil 377 34 293 (10) 285 17 297 15
Wellbutrin 183 51 164 40 155 30 126 24
Migraine 170 (1) 166 6 168 4 126 –
Imigran/Imitrex 156 (3) 151 6 154 4 114 (2)
Naramig/Amerge 14 19 15 13 14 8 12 20
Lamictal 53 22 45 27 46 21 35 22
Requip 6 (28) 12 75 10 45 8 39
Zyban 13 (16) 11 (4) 15 (12) 15 (20)
Respiratory 448 31 429 55 439 42 330 33
Flixotide/Flovent, Serevent,
Seretide/Advair 322 32 316 74 312 59 229 48
Flixotide/Flovent 88 (35) 122 22 138 31 122 40
Serevent 75 (28) 96 20 103 15 107 58
Seretide/Advair 159 >100 98 – 71 – – –
Flixonase/Flonase 99 29 93 21 98 10 84 28
Ventolin 6 (49) 6 (5) 10 12 7 36
Becotide – – – – – – – –
Anti-bacterials 382 6 258 2 279 13 385 18
Augmentin 301 25 168 – 172 25 271 31
Zinnat/Ceftin 42 (42) 25 (11) 58 20 55 (18)
Fortum 10 7 13 20 9 (5) 9 (25)
Amoxil 3 (78) 8 9 5 (75) 15 9
Anti-virals 315 20 277 16 253 7 226 1
HIV 226 17 203 11 198 9 167 4
Trizivir 45 >100 32 – 25 – 13 –
Combivir 95 (1) 90 (4) 89 (2) 84 6
Epivir 45 (3) 40 (5) 41 (3) 35 (14)
Retrovir 6 (8) 7 12 6 (16) 5 (23)
Ziagen 26 – 24 (12) 27 (4) 21 (12)
Agenerase 9 (15) 10 (23) 10 (27) 9 (17)
Herpes 78 41 64 32 61 22 52 19
Valtrex 62 44 55 39 52 32 43 36
Zovirax 16 31 9 4 9 (14) 9 (27)
Zeffix 2 (2) 2 42 2 66 1 43
Metabolic and gastro-intestinal 117 (26) 228 48 225 42 160 7
Avandia 82 (33) 205 90 201 72 135 32
Zantac 34 13 22 (29) 25 (28) 25 (16)
Vaccines 70 35 68 6 63 8 60 37
Hepatitis 52 22 45 (9) 46 3 44 26
Infanrix 19 94 21 82 17 >100 15 >100
Oncology and emesis 154 3 162 24 167 26 128 12
Zofran 109 15 111 22 115 30 93 16
Hycamtin 7 (65) 21 26 19 22 13 (4)
Cardiovascular 119 62 94 11 94 19 78 35
Coreg 81 >100 58 22 56 31 47 89
Arthritis (Relafen) 18 (56) 27 (48) 44 (9) 45 4
Other 26 (43) 1 (93) 27 (24) 6 (79)
Total pharmaceutical sales 2,466 15 2,246 14 2,284 20 2,041 14136 GlaxoSmithKline Financial record
Pharmaceutical sales – Europe Q4 2001 Q3 2001 Q2 2001 Q1 2001
£m CER % £m CER % £m CER % £m CER %
CNS 210 8 183 5 196 15 190 24
Depression 101 6 89 12 97 13 91 19
Seroxat/Paxil 101 6 89 12 97 13 91 19
Wellbutrin – – – – – – – –
Migraine 45 17 39 8 42 3 39 3
Imigran/Imitrex 37 18 32 8 35 2 32 –
Naramig/Amerge 8 13 7 6 7 11 7 18
Lamictal 39 23 34 20 35 15 31 14
Requip 9 7 10 23 9 21 8 26
Zyban 10 (31) 8 (61) 8 >100 16 >100
Respiratory 341 9 304 20 322 11 309 12
Flixotide/Flovent,
Serevent, Seretide/Advair 251 17 226 35 231 22 221 24
Flixotide/Flovent 64 (19) 57 (19) 70 (15) 72 (9)
Serevent 54 (23) 49 (12) 58 (12) 64 (4)
Seretide/Advair 133 >100 120 >100 103 >100 85 >100
Flixonase/Flonase 12 11 11 29 18 22 13 16
Ventolin 36 (10) 31 (9) 34 (11) 33 (13)
Becotide 31 (21) 28 (21) 30 (24) 33 (15)
Anti-bacterials 202 2 147 1 165 (2) 188 (6)
Augmentin 92 – 67 (1) 74 (4) 89 (2)
Zinnat/Ceftin 39 9 22 (5) 30 25 32 (4)
Fortum 26 20 21 10 23 (6) 22 (10)
Amoxil 13 (20) 11 (5) 11 (21) 15 (27)
Anti-virals 156 12 141 12 145 4 147 7
HIV 106 12 97 17 103 14 99 20
Trizivir 18 >100 14 >100 12 – 5 –
Combivir 45 (8) 42 (1) 47 6 48 19
Epivir 23 (12) 22 (6) 24 (9) 26 (2)
Retrovir 5 (3) 5 (5) 5 (26) 5 (14)
Ziagen 13 1 12 6 13 14 13 46
Agenerase 2 47 2 97 2 90 2 76
Herpes 40 4 37 – 37 (18) 43 (2)
Valtrex 21 33 15 20 14 (8) 19 26
Zovirax 19 (15) 22 (11) 23 (23) 24 (16)
Zeffix 3 37 3 55 3 92 3 71
Metabolic and gastro-intestinal 81 (1) 68 (4) 74 (1) 76 (4)
Avandia 10 >100 8 >100 7 >100 7 >100
Zantac 42 (13) 35 (16) 42 (15) 43 (16)
Vaccines 101 – 103 1 105 4 87 (6)
Hepatitis 48 (6) 46 (4) 47 (21) 42 (24)
Infanrix 27 10 23 (8) 39 42 27 15
Oncology and emesis 37 12 34 7 35 3 36 11
Zofran 28 15 27 13 27 11 26 19
Hycamtin 6 (9) 5 (5) 6 (12) 6 6
Cardiovascular 36 23 30 8 38 34 31 12
Coreg – – – – – – – –
Arthritis (Relafen) 3 (48) 2 (33) 2 (57) 3 (37)
Other 61 (12) 59 8 54 – 59 –
Total pharmaceutical sales 1,228 5 1,071 8 1,136 7 1,126 6Financial recordGlaxoSmithKline 137
Pharmaceutical sales – Rest of World Q4 2001 Q3 2001 Q2 2001 Q1 2001
£m CER % £m CER % £m CER % £m CER %
CNS 110 25 98 43 97 31 88 40
Depression 75 35 61 53 60 40 50 32
Seroxat/Paxil 69 36 57 55 55 42 46 32
Wellbutrin 6 20 4 34 5 22 4 38
Migraine 17 49 16 68 11 4 10 6
Imigran/Imitrex 15 56 15 74 9 1 8 –
Naramig/Amerge 2 11 1 33 2 22 2 43
Lamictal 10 18 10 20 9 (2) 8 17
Requip 1 47 1 24 – – 1 26
Zyban 3 (57) 3 (8) 12 >100 15 >100
Respiratory 183 21 138 26 151 1 143 20
Flixotide/Flovent,
Serevent, Seretide/Advair 91 34 71 37 76 35 64 51
Flixotide/Flovent 55 17 40 15 46 11 41 31
Serevent 10 13 9 2 10 (7) 10 9
Seretide/Advair 26 >100 22 >100 20 >100 13 >100
Flixonase/Flonase 20 21 12 11 15 (14) 29 30
Ventolin 41 (5) 32 9 38 (25) 32 (1)
Becotide 12 (7) 9 (3) 9 (29) 9 (34)
Anti-bacterials 182 12 138 (5) 141 (16) 137 (7)
Augmentin 56 26 43 (5) 45 (5) 43 8
Zinnat/Ceftin 29 7 27 16 25 (23) 25 (6)
Fortum 22 (7) 16 2 19 (21) 19 2
Amoxil 24 2 14 (32) 16 (28) 14 (23)
Anti-virals 130 (3) 115 18 123 6 100 15
HIV 40 12 40 48 36 30 32 43
Trizivir 2 >100 – – 1 – – –
Combivir 18 19 18 72 17 49 13 89
Epivir 11 (11) 12 9 12 7 11 15
Retrovir 4 (14) 2 (14) 3 (1) 2 (22)
Ziagen 4 30 6 >100 3 46 5 81
Agenerase 1 19 2 >100 – – 1 >100
Herpes 65 (9) 53 (5) 62 (13) 54 2
Valtrex 20 11 19 >100 16 >100 14 >100
Zovirax 45 (16) 34 (31) 46 (31) 40 (16)
Zeffix 22 24 22 49 22 67 18 75
Metabolic and gastro-intestinal 126 11 104 9 117 2 104 15
Avandia 18 >100 13 >100 12 >100 9 >100
Zantac 65 (6) 54 (4) 64 (9) 54 (2)
Vaccines 84 26 70 28 74 15 63 6
Hepatitis 17 (16) 19 (14) 17 (14) 22 (15)
Infanrix 16 38 10 57 14 8 10 41
Oncology and emesis 24 13 21 15 23 10 17 (1)
Zofran 19 18 15 19 18 15 13 1
Hycamtin 2 6 1 (1) 2 (10) 2 (13)
Cardiovascular 20 (5) 17 1 18 (8) 16 9
Coreg 3 99 2 88 2 >100 2 (35)
Arthritis (Relafen) 2 (15) 3 (31) 4 (19) 3 (21)
Other 164 11 163 30 152 (1) 144 6
Total pharmaceutical sales 1,025 13 867 18 900 1 815 10138 GlaxoSmithKline Financial record
Five year record
A record of financial performance is provided analysed in accordance with current reporting practice.
2001 2000 1999 1998 1997
Sales by business segment £m £m £m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals 17,205 15,429 13,618 12,563 12,355
Consumer Healthcare 3,284 2,650 2,546 2,375 2,381
Retained businesses 20,489 18,079 16,164 14,938 14,736
Healthcare Services – – 632 1,064 980
20,489 18,079 16,796 16,002 15,716
Pharmaceutical sales by therapeutic area
Central nervous system disorders 4,007 3,279 2,720 2,400 1,875
Respiratory 3,537 2,789 2,382 2,096 1,795
Anti-bacterials 2,604 2,472 2,383 2,278 2,294
Anti-virals 2,128 1,899 1,610 1,347 1,421
Metabolic and gastro-intestinal 1,480 1,232 886 908 1,453
Vaccines 948 842 776 726 699
Oncology and emesis 838 710 613 549 512
Cardiovascular 591 463 449 390 320
Arthritis 156 210 275 301 292
Others 916 1,086 1,096 1,192 1,297
Continuing business 17,205 14,982 13,190 12,187 11,958
Divested products – 447 428 376 397
17,205 15,429 13,618 12,563 12,355
Pharmaceutical sales by geographic area
USA 9,037 7,705 6,276 5,635 5,455
Europe 4,561 4,268 4,288 4,059 3,949
Rest of World:
Asia Pacific 1,119 1,049 929 876 962
Japan 741 832 704 592 679
Latin America 790 682 636 662 605
Middle East, Africa 539 511 461 468 438
Canada 418 382 324 271 267
Total Rest of World 3,607 3,456 3,054 2,869 2,951
17,205 15,429 13,618 12,563 12,355
Consumer Healthcare sales
OTC medicines 1,603 1,454 1,434 1,328 1,395
Oral care 1,106 642 614 584 550
Nutritional healthcare 575 535 488 459 433
Continuing business 3,284 2,631 2,536 2,371 2,378
Divested products – 19 10 4 3
3,284 2,650 2,546 2,375 2,381Financial recordGlaxoSmithKline 139
2001 2000 1999 1998 1997
Business performance results – retained businesses £m £m £m £m £m
Sales 20,489 18,079 16,164 14,938 14,736
R&D expenditure 2,555 2,510 2,285 2,072 1,989
per cent of sales 12 14 14 14 13
Trading profit 6,053 5,026 4,378 4,191 4,372
per cent of sales 30 28 27 28 30
Net interest payable (88) (182) (162) (192) (216)
Profit before taxation 6,169 5,327 4,683 4,299 4,242
Earnings (profit attributable to shareholders) 4,391 3,697 3,204 2,891 2,835
Business performance, which is the primary performance measure used by management, is presented after excluding merger items,
integration and restructuring costs and the disposal of subsidiaries. Management believes that exclusion of these non-recurring items
provides a better comparison of business performance for the periods presented. Accordingly, this information is provided as a supplement
to that included in the consolidated statement of profit and loss on pages 68 and 69 prepared in accordance with UKGAAP. Total results
include these non-recurring items.
Merger, restructuring and disposal of subsidiaries
Manufacturing and other restructuring (162) (171) (443) (90) (81)
Merger costs and product divestments (1,069) 895 – – –
Other items (421) (22) (29) (721) –
(Loss)/profit before taxation (1,652) 702 (472) (811) (81)
(Loss)/profit attributable to shareholders (1,332) 457 (363) (512) (66)
Total results
Sales 20,489 18,079 16,796 16,002 15,716
Profit before taxation 4,517 6,029 4,236 3,564 4,210
Earnings (profit attributable to shareholders) 3,059 4,154 2,859 2,435 2,818
Dividends (2,356) (2,097) (2,005) (1,903) (1,794)
Retained profit 703 2,057 854 532 1,024
Return on capital employed (per cent) 52.1 77.5 69.6 70.4 103.4
Return on capital employed is calculated as total profit before taxation as a percentage of average capital employed over the year.
Share statistics
Earnings per Share (p) 50.4 68.5 46.7 39.9 47.7
Dividends per GlaxoSmithKline share (p):
GlaxoSmithKline shareholder 39.0
Glaxo Wellcome shareholder 38.0 37.0 36.0 35.0
SmithKline Beecham shareholder 29.66 26.69 24.02 21.85
Dividends per GlaxoSmithKline ADS ($):
GlaxoSmithKline shareholder 1.11
Glaxo Wellcome shareholder 1.16 1.20 1.19 1.17
SmithKline Beecham shareholder 0.91 0.86 0.81 0.74
Dividends are expressed in terms of a GlaxoSmithKline share/ADS. On the merger between Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham on
27thDecember 2000, shareholders and ADR holders received shares in GlaxoSmithKline in the following ratios:
for 1 Glaxo Wellcome share – 1 GlaxoSmithKline share
for 1 SmithKline Beecham share – 0.4552 GlaxoSmithKline shares
for 1 Glaxo Wellcome ADS – 1 GlaxoSmithKline ADS
for 1 SmithKline Beecham ADS – 1.138 GlaxoSmithKline ADSs
1 GlaxoSmithKline ADS represents 2 GlaxoSmithKline shares.140 GlaxoSmithKline Financial record
2001 2000 1999 1998 1997
Net assets £m £m £m £m £m
Fixed assets 11,920 10,322 9,292 9,095 8,494
Other assets and liabilities (1,440) (756) (328) (816) (1,094)
Net operating assets 10,480 9,566 8,964 8,279 7,400
Net debt (2,101) (611) (2,357) (2,717) (2,830)
8,379 8,955 6,607 5,562 4,570
Capital employed
Share capital and share premium 1,713 1,586 1,549 1,542 1,525
Goodwill reserve – – – – (4,840)
Other reserves 5,804 6,125 3,915 2,907 6,783
Equity shareholders’ funds 7,517 7,711 5,464 4,449 3,468
Minority interests 862 1,244 1,143 1,113 1,102
8,379 8,955 6,607 5,562 4,570
Capital expenditure (tangible fixed assets) 1,113 1,018 1,141 1,037 917
Number of employees
USA 23,613 22,745 21,272 32,565 31,676
Europe 46,508 45,929 47,767 45,408 41,291
Rest of World:
Asia Pacific 20,749 21,689 21,831 21,643 21,760
Japan 2,985 3,165 3,191 3,402 3,312
Latin America 7,800 7,704 8,286 7,702 7,729
Middle East, Africa 3,959 4,502 4,754 4,547 4,256
Canada 1,856 1,783 1,940 1,554 1,487
Total Rest of World 37,349 38,843 40,002 38,848 38,544
107,470 107,517 109,041 116,821 111,511
Manufacturing 36,849 35,681 37,420 44,780 42,282
Selling 44,499 43,325 41,775 41,095 39,588
Administration 11,081 11,980 12,767 15,064 14,439
Research and development 15,041 16,531 17,079 15,882 15,202
107,470 107,517 109,041 116,821 111,511
The number of employees is the number of permanent employed staff at the end of the financial period. It excludes those employees who
are employed and managed by GlaxoSmithKline on a contract basis. As a consequence of the time it took to complete the merger in 2000
GlaxoSmithKline replaced, where needed, leavers with contractors, and so the year end 2000 level of contractors was disproportionately
high.
The movement in 2001 compared to 2000 reflects the conversion of some contract employees to permanent employees, redundancies due
to merger integration and additional employees from the acquisition of Block Drug.GlaxoSmithKline 141
Investor information
This section discusses shareholder return – the return to
shareholders in the form of dividends and share price movements
– and provides other information for shareholders.
142 Shareholder return
144 Taxation information for shareholders
145 Shareholder information
146 Share capital142 GlaxoSmithKline
Shareholder return
Merger of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham Dividends
GlaxoSmithKline pays dividends quarterly. At present, it is expected
The Boards of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham
that there will be a level dividend for each of the first three quarters,
announced on 17th January 2000 that they had agreed the terms
with a higher dividend in the fourth quarter. Each quarter’s dividend
of a proposed merger of equals of the two companies, subject to
is announced at the time of the quarterly Results Announcement.
shareholder approval and regulatory clearance. Based on the
relative stock market valuations of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline GlaxoSmithKline’s dividend payout policy was set out in the
Beecham in the months preceding the announcement of the documents for the Glaxo Wellcome/SmithKline Beecham merger
merger, shareholders of Glaxo Wellcome would hold issued to shareholders during 2000. Assuming earnings continue to
approximately 58.75 per cent and shareholders of SmithKline grow, GlaxoSmithKline will at least maintain an annual dividend of
Beecham approximately 41.25 per cent of the combined Group. 38 pence per share, in line with Glaxo Wellcome’s 2000 dividend of
38 pence per Glaxo Wellcome share, whilstbuilding towards higher
Following shareholder approvals, and clearance from regulatory
dividend cover (the ratio between distributable profitsand dividends).
authorities, the merger became effective on 27th December 2000.
The Board has declared dividends for 2001 as follows:
The merger was implemented by way of a scheme of
arrangement. A new holding company, GlaxoSmithKline plc, 2000
acquired Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham. In accordance 2001 GW SB
with the agreed merger terms, shareholders of Glaxo Wellcome Dividends per share pence pence pence
and SmithKline Beecham received, in exchange for their existing First interim 9 – 6.59
shares, shares in GlaxoSmithKline as follows: Second interim 9 15 6.59
Third interim 9 – 6.59
for each Glaxo Wellcome ordinary share – 1 GlaxoSmithKline
Fourth interim 12 23 9.89
ordinary share
Total 39 38 29.66
for each SmithKline Beecham ordinary share – 0.4552
GlaxoSmithKline ordinary shares.
The dividends paid in 2000 represent dividends paid to Glaxo
In the case of shares held as American Depositary Shares (ADSs),
Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham shareholders expressed as
evidenced by American Depositary Receipts (ADRs), each Glaxo
dividends per GlaxoSmithKline share.
Wellcome ADS represented two Glaxo Wellcome ordinary shares
and each SmithKline Beecham ADS represented five SmithKline
Dividends 2000
Beecham ordinary shares. Each GlaxoSmithKline ADS represents
In respect of the financial year ended 31st December 2000:
two GlaxoSmithKline ordinary shares. Accordingly holders of Glaxo
Wellcome ADRs and holders of SmithKline Beecham ADRs Glaxo Wellcome paid an interim dividend of 15p per ordinary share
received: and a second interim dividend of 23p per ordinary share. The total
dividend per Glaxo Wellcome share for the year was 38p. The total
for each Glaxo Wellcome ADS - 1 GlaxoSmithKline ADS
equivalent dividend per GlaxoSmithKline ordinary share was 38p.
for each SmithKline Beecham ADS - 1.138 GlaxoSmithKline ADSs
SmithKline Beecham paid a first, second and third interim dividend
GlaxoSmithKline shares commenced trading on the London Stock
of 3p per ordinary share and a fourth interim dividend of 4.5p per
Exchange and GlaxoSmithKline ADSs commenced trading on the
ordinary share. The total dividend per share for the year was 13.5p.
New York Stock Exchange on 27th December 2000.
The total equivalent dividend per GlaxoSmithKline ordinary share
was 29.66p.
Taxation
General information concerning the UK and US tax effects of
share ownership is set out in 'Taxation information for shareholders'.
Shareholders who are in any doubt about their taxation position
should consult their own professional advisers. As a general guide
to shareholders, GlaxoSmithKline has received advice that the
merger should not have any direct effect on the tax position of
UK resident shareholders or US resident shareholders. Further
information is contained in the Scheme Document issued to
shareholders on 5th July 2000.Shareholder return GlaxoSmithKline 143
Dividends (ADSs) Share price
As a guide to holders of ADRs, the tables below set out the dividends 2001 2000
paid per ADS in US dollars in the last five years. The dividends are
Share price GSK (£) GSK (£) GW (£) SB (£)
adjusted for UK tax credit less withholding tax, where applicable,
At 1st January 18.90 – 17.50 7.90
and are translated into US dollars at applicable exchange rates.
High during the year 20.32 – 21.10 9.55
Since 6th April 1999, claims for refunds of tax credits or dividends Low during the year 16.26 – 14.40 6.71
from the UK tax authorities are of negligible benefit to US At 26th December – – 18.42 8.33
shareholders. At 31st December 17.23 18.90 – –
Increase/(decrease) over year (9%) 5% 5%
Year GSK ($) GW ($) SB ($)
2001 1.11 – –
The table above sets out the middle market quotations for shares on
2000 – 1.10 0.87
the London Stock Exchange, as derived from its Daily Official List.
1999 – 1.14 0.86
1998 – 1.19 0.81 The company’s share price declined by nine per cent in 2001 from
1997 – 1.17 0.75 a price of £18.90 at 1st January 2001 to £17.23 at 31st December
2001. This decline compares to a decrease in the FTSE 100 index
Dividends paid to Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham ADR
of 16 per cent during the year. The relative outperformance of
holders are expressed as dividends per GlaxoSmithKline ADS.
GlaxoSmithKline in 2001 was due to investor preference for the
defensive growth characteristics of the pharmaceutical sector during
Dividend calendar
an uncertain economic period, together with GlaxoSmithKline’s
First quarter 2002 strong business performance during the year.
Results Announcement 24th April 2002
Market capitalisation
Ex-dividend date 1st May 2002
The market capitalisation of GlaxoSmithKline at 31st December 2001
Record date 3rd May 2002
was £106 billion. At that date GlaxoSmithKline was the third largest
Payable 4th July 2002
company by market capitalisation on the FTSE index.
Second quarter 2002
SmithKline Beecham plc Floating Rate Unsecured Loan Stock
Results Announcement 24th July 2002
1990/2010
Ex-dividend date 31st July 2002
Record date 2nd August 2002 The loan stock is not listed on any exchange but holders may
Payable 3rd October 2002 require SmithKline Beecham plc to redeem their loan stock at par,
i.e. £1 for every £1 of loan stock held, on the first business day of
Third quarter 2002 March, June, September and December. Holders wishing to redeem
Results Announcement 23rd October 2002 all or part of their loan stock should complete the notice on the
Ex-dividend date 30th October 2002 back of their loan stock certificate and return it to the registrar,
Record date 1st November 2002 to arrive at least 30 days before the relevant redemption date.
Payable 3rd January 2003144 GlaxoSmithKline
Taxation information for shareholders
Information for shareholders Stamp duty
UK stamp duty or, as the case may be, stamp duty reserve tax
A summary of the principal tax consequences for holders of
(SDRT) will, subject to certain exemptions, be payable on the
shares and ADRs for citizens or residents of the United Kingdom
purchase of shares at a rate of 0.5 per cent of the purchase price.
or the United States is set out below. It is not a complete analysis
There is a minimum charge of £5 where a stamp duty liability arises.
of all the possible tax consequences of purchase or ownership of
these securities. Holders of these securities are advised to consult
US shareholders
their own tax advisers with respect to the tax consequences of
the purchase and ownership of their shares or ADRs, including, Taxation of dividends
specifically, the consequences under state and local tax laws in The gross amount of dividends received (including amounts in
the United States. respect of associated tax credit and UK withholding tax) is treated
as foreign source dividend income for US tax purposes. It is not
The new UK/US Income Tax Convention was signed in 2001.
eligible for the dividend received deduction allowed to US
However no date has been set for ratification. The statements
corporations. Dividends on ADRs are payable in US Dollars;
regarding the United Kingdom and the United States tax laws
dividends on shares are payable in pounds Sterling. Dividends
and practices set out below are based on those laws and
paid in pounds Sterling will be included in income in the US
practices in force on the date of this report.
Dollar amount calculated by reference to the exchange rate on
US holders of ADRs generally will be treated as the owners of the the day the dividends are received by the holder. UK taxes
underlying shares for the purposes of the current United withheld from dividend distributions are eligible for credit against
States/United Kingdom double taxation conventions relating to the holder's US federal income tax liability subject to generally
income and gains (Income Tax Convention), estate and gift taxes applicable limitations. Each holder's own tax position will
(Estate and Gift Tax Convention) and for the purposes of the US determine whether effective use can be made of credits for UK
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code). withholding taxes against the US tax liability.
From 6th April 1999, the rate of tax credits was reduced to one
The following analysis deals with dividends paid after 6th April
ninth and ACT was abolished. Consequently, claims for refunds
1999. Advance Corporation Tax (ACT) was abolished for
of tax credits on dividends paid on or after this date are now of
dividends paid on or after that date.
negligible benefit to US shareholders.
UK shareholders
Taxation of capital gains
Taxation of dividends Generally, US holders will not be subject to UK capital gains tax,
From 6th April 1999, the rate of tax credits was reduced to one but will be subject to US tax on capital gains realised on the sale
ninth. As a result of compensating reductions in the rate of tax or other disposal of shares or ADRs.
on dividend income, there is no increase in the tax borne by UK
resident individual shareholders. Tax credits are, however, no Estate and gift taxes
longer repayable to shareholders with a tax liability of less than Under the Estate and Gift Tax Convention, a US shareholder is
the associated tax credit. not generally subject to UK inheritance tax.
Taxation of capital gains Stamp duty
UK shareholders may be liable for UK tax on gains on the UK stamp duty or, as the case may be, SDRT will, subject to
disposal of shares or ADRs. They may also be entitled to certain exemptions, be payable on any issue or transfer of shares
indexation relief and taper relief on such sales. Indexation relief is to the ADR custodian or depository at a rate of 1.5 per cent of
calculated on the market value of shares at 31st March 1982 and their price (if issued), the amount of any consideration provided
on the cost of any subsequent purchases from the date of such (if transferred on sale), or their value (if transferred for no
purchase. Indexation relief for individual shareholders ceased on consideration).
5th April 1998. Taper relief is available to individual shareholders
No SDRT would be payable on the transfer of an ADR. No UK
who hold or are deemed to hold shares for at least three years
stamp duty should be payable on the transfer of an ADR provided
before they are sold.
that the instrument of transfer is executed and remains at all
times outside the UK. Any stamp duty on the transfer of an ADR
Inheritance tax
would be payable at a rate of 0.5 per cent of the consideration
Individual shareholders may be liable to inheritance tax on the
for the transfer. Any sale of the underlying shares would result in
transfer of shares or ADRs. This tax may be charged on the
liability to UK stamp duty or, as the case may be, SDRT at a rate
amount by which the value of the shareholder's estate is reduced
of 0.5 per cent.
as a result of any transfer by way of gift or other disposal at less
than full market value. Exceptionally, such a gift or other disposal There is a minimum charge of £5 where a stamp duty liability
is subject to both UK inheritance tax and US estate or gift tax. arises.
The Estate and Gift Tax Convention would generally provide for
tax paid in the United States to be credited against tax payable in
the United Kingdom.GlaxoSmithKline 145
Shareholder information
Ordinary shares Investors holding shares in the company through a nominee service
should arrange with that nominee service to be appointed a proxy
The company's shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
in respect of their shareholding in order to attend and vote at the
meeting.
Registrar
The company's share register is administered by Lloyds TSB ADR holders wishing to attend the meeting must obtain a proxy
Registrars, who also provide the following services: from The Bank of New York which will enable them to attend the
meeting and vote on the business to be transacted. ADR holders
• GlaxoSmithKline Investment Plan
may instruct The Bank of New York as to how the shares
The plan enables shareholders to reinvest quarterly dividends
represented by their ADRs should be voted by completing and
and/or make monthly investments in the company's ordinary
returning the voting card provided by The Bank of New York in
shares using a special dealing arrangement.
accordance with the instructions given.
• GlaxoSmithKline Individual Savings Account
The GlaxoSmithKline Individual Savings Account (ISA) is a Financial reporting
tax-efficient way to invest in the company's ordinary shares.
Financial reporting calendar 2002
• GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Sponsored Nominee Announcement of 1st Quarter Results 24th April 2002
The corporate sponsored nominee provides a facility for
Announcement of 2nd Quarter Results 24th July 2002
shareholders to hold shares without the need for share
Publication of Half-Year Report/Review August 2002
certificates. Shareholders' details will not be held on the main
share register, and so will remain confidential. Announcement of 3rd Quarter Results 23rd October 2002
Preliminary Announcement of Annual Results February 2003
• Shareview service
Publication of Annual Report/Review March 2003
The shareview portfolio service provides shareholders with
information on their investment in the company. Shareholders
may register for this service at www.shareview.co.uk. Results announcements
The Results announcements are issued to the London Stock
Share dealing facility Exchange (LSE), and made available on the LSE news service, and
NatWest Stockbrokers Limited offers a share-dealing service on at the same time, or shortly afterwards, are issued to the media,
behalf of the company to shareholders wishing to buy or sell the are made available on the company's web site and are filed in the
company's shares. USA with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the
New York Stock Exchange.
Share price information
Share price information is available on the company's web site at Financial reports
www.gsk.com. Information is also available on Ceefax, Teletext, The company publishes an Annual Report and, for the investor not
and from FT Cityline by calling 0906 003 5694 or 0906 843 5694 needing the full detail of the Report, an Annual Review. An interim
(calls charged at 60p a minute at all times). Report and Review are published at the half-year.
The financial reports are sent to shareholders on the date of
American Depositary Shares
publication and are available from the same date on the company's
The company's shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange web site. Shareholders are provided with the Review and may elect
in the form of American Depositary Shares (ADSs) and these are to receive also the Report.
evidenced by American Depositary Receipts (ADRs), each one of
Copies of previous financial reports are available on the company's
which represents two ordinary shares.
web site. Printed copies can be obtained from the company's
registrar in the UK and from the company's Customer Response
ADR programme administrator
Center in the USA.
The ADR programme is administered by The Bank of New York,
who also provide the following services:
Publications
• Global BuyDIRECT
For the first time GlaxoSmithKline is producing a social and
Global BuyDIRECT is a direct ADS purchase/sale and dividend
environmental review entitled “Performance with Integrity” which
reinvestment plan for ADR holders.
will incorporate information about the most pressing issues that are
core to our business and have generated significant interest from
Annual General Meeting 2002
external shareholders. These include medicines for the developing
world, community involvement and environmental health and
The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, 20th May 2002
safety. “Performance with Integrity” will be available from the
Broad Sanctuary, Westminster,
Secretariat at the company’s head office and on the company
London SW1P 3EE
web site at www.gsk.com in May.
The Annual General Meeting is the company's principal forum for
communication with private shareholders. In addition to the
formal resolutions to be put to the meeting, there will be a
presentation by the Chief Executive Officer on the performance
of the business and its future development. There will be
opportunity for questions to the Board, and the Chairmen of the
Board's committees will take questions on matters relating to
those committees.146 GlaxoSmithKline
Share capital
Nature of trading market Glaxo Wellcome Pence per share
The Ordinary Shares of the company were listed on the London Fiscal periods to 26th December 2000 High Low
Stock Exchange on 27th December 2000. The shares were also Quarter ended 31st December 2000† 2110 1835
listed on the New York Stock Exchange (inthe form of American Quarter ended 30th September 2000 2048 1791
Depositary Shares ‘ADSs’) from the same date. Quarter ended 30th June 2000 2032 1750
Quarter ended 31st March 2000 1860 1440
The following table sets out, for the periods indicated, the high
1999 2288 1507
and low middle market quotations in pence for the shares on the
1998 2073 1465
London Stock Exchange, as derived from its Daily Official List, and
1997 1457 894
the high and low last reported sales prices in US dollars for the
ADSs on the New York Stock Exchange, as derived from the New
US dollars per ADS
York Stock Exchange Composite Tape.
Fiscal periods to 26th December 2000 High Low
Information relating to the share and ADS prices for Glaxo Quarter ended 31st December 2000† 607⁄16 54
Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham prior to the date of the merger Quarter ended 30th September 2000 6015⁄16 5313⁄16
is also given below. Quarter ended 30th June 2000 633⁄4 531⁄4
Quarter ended 31st March 2000 60 46
GlaxoSmithKline Pence per share
1999 763⁄16 481⁄16
Fiscal periods from 27th December 2000 High Low 1998 691⁄2 481⁄8
Quarter ended 31st March 2002* 1780 1640 1997 48 301⁄8
February 2002 1763 1671
January 2002 1780 1640
December 2001 1796 1685 SmithKline Beecham Pence per share
November 2001 1918 1760 Fiscal periods to 26th December 2000 High Low
October 2001 1955 1825 Quarter ended 31st December 2000† 955 829
September 2001 1920 1626 Quarter ended 30th September 2000 927 804
Quarter ended 31st December 2001 1955 1685 Quarter ended 30th June 2000 901 790
Quarter ended 30th September 2001 2032 1626 Quarter ended 31st March 2000 865 671
Quarter ended 30th June 2001 2012 1740 1999 929 688
Quarter ended 31st March 2001 1965 1690 1998 844 571
27th to 31st December 2000 1920 1890 1997 650 389
US dollars per ADS US dollars per ADS
Fiscal periods from 27th December 2000 High Low Fiscal periods to 26th December 2000 High Low
Quarter ended 31st March 2002* 51.07 46.90 Quarter ended 31st December 2000† 6813⁄16 6011⁄16
February 2002 51.07 46.90 Quarter ended 30th September 2000 685⁄8 60
January 2002 50.97 47.02 Quarter ended 30th June 2000 7115⁄16 591⁄2
December 2001 51.18 48.68 Quarter ended 31st March 2000 713⁄16 521⁄2
November 2001 56.05 49.90 1999 763⁄8 561⁄16
October 2001 57.09 52.60 1998 717⁄8 481⁄16
September 2001 56.60 48.40 1997 535⁄8 3211⁄16
Quarter ended 31st December 2001 57.09 48.68 1996 693⁄8 493⁄4
Quarter ended 30th September 2001 58.00 48.40
Quarter ended 30th June 2001 57.10 49.80 †to 26th December 2000.
Quarter ended 31st March 2001 56.95 47.15
27th to 31st December 2000 5613/16 553/8
*to 6th March 2002Share capital GlaxoSmithKline 147
Analysis of shareholdings
Number of % of total Number of
Analysis of shareholdings at 31st December 2001: accounts accounts % of total shares
Holding of shares
Up to 1,000 176,202 68.6 1.1 66,034,529
1,001 to 5,000 61,425 23.9 2.1 133,024,128
5,001 to 100,000 17,336 6.8 4.3 263,032,143
100,001 to 1,000,000 1,387 0.5 7.2 441,652,354
Over 1,000,000 508 0.2 85.3 5,269,222,835
Totals 256,858 100.0 100.0 6,172,965,989
Held by
Nominee companies 59,260 23.1 81.5 5,031,708,556
Investment and trust companies 393 0.1 0.2 11,085,490
Insurance companies 56 – 1.0 60,507,465
Individuals and other corporate bodies 197,147 76.8 7.8 483,067,806
BNY (Nominees) Limited 2 – 9.5 586,596,672
Totals 256,858 100.0 100.0 6,172,965,989
The Bank of New York’s holding held through BNY (Nominees) Limited represents the company’s ADR programme, whereby each ADS
represents two Ordinary Shares of 25p nominal value.
At 6th March 2002, the number of holders of record of shares in the USA was 1,129 with holdings of 1,906,132 shares, and
thenumberof registered holders of the ADRs was 60,824 with holdings of 289,906,042 ADRs. Because certain of these shares and ADRs
were held by brokers or other nominees, the number of holders of record or registered holders in the USA is not representative of the
number of beneficial holders orofthe residence of beneficial holders.
Control of company
As far as is known to the company, it is not directly or indirectly owned or controlled by one or more corporations or by any government.
Thecompany does not know of any arrangements, the operation of which might result in a change in control of the company.
Substantial shareholdings
At 6th March 2002, the company had received notification of the following interest of three per cent or more in its shares:
• BNY(Nominees) Limited holds 579,812,328 shares representing 9.4 per cent. These shares are held on behalf of holders of American
Depositary Receipts.
As far as is known to the company, no other person was the owner of more than three per cent of the shares of the company.
Directors and Officers
The interests of the Directors and Officers of the company (as defined in theCompanies Act 1985) in share options of the company are
given in the Remuneration report (pages 35 to 42).
Exchange controls and other limitations affecting securityholders
There are currently no UK laws, decrees or regulations restricting the import or export of capital or affecting the remittance of dividends
orother payments to holders of the company’s shares who are non-residents of the UK. There are no limitations relating only to non-
residents of the UK under English law or the company’s Memorandum and Articles of Association on the right tobe a holder of, and to
vote in respect of, the company’s shares.148 GlaxoSmithKline
Cross reference to Form 20-F
This table has been provided as a cross reference from the information included in this Annual Report to the requirements of Form 20-F.
Item Page Item Page
1 Identity of directors, senior management and advisers n/a 8 Financial information
A Consolidated statements and other financial information
2 Offer statistics and expected timetable n/a
Financial statements See Item 18
3 Key information
Legal proceedings 94–96
A Selected financial data 63
B Significant changes n/a
D Risk factors 56–57
9 The offer and listing
4 Information on the company
A Share price history 146
A History and development of the company 06
C Markets 146
B Business overview
Products 07–09 10Additional information
Competition 10 B Memorandum and Articles of Association Note (i)
Regulation 11 C Material contracts 149
Marketing and distribution 12 D Exchange controls 147
Manufacture and supply 12–13 E Taxation 144
Research and development 13–21 H Documents on display 149
Intellectual property 22 11Quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk
Information technology 23 Treasury policies 54–55
Environment, health and safety 25 Note 32 – Financial instruments and related disclosures 99–102
Global community partnerships 26–28
12Description of securities other than equity securities n/a
Access to medicines in the developing world 26
13Defaults, dividend arrearages and delinquencies n/a
C Organisational structure 127–129
D Property, plant and equipment 24 14Material modifications to the rights of security holders and
Environmental responsibility 25 use of proceeds n/a
Note 6 – Segment information 78–80 15Reserved
Note 17 – Tangible fixed assets 87
16Reserved
5 Operating and financial review and prospects
17Financial statements n/a
A Operating results
18Financial statements
2001 and 2000 45–51
Directors’ statements of responsibility 66
2000 and 1999 58–62
Independent auditors’ report 67
Under US accounting principles 64
Consolidated statement of profit and loss 68–69
B Liquidity and capital resources 52–57
Consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses 68–69
C Research and development, patents and licenses, etc. 13–21,44
Consolidated statement of cash flow 70–71
D Trend information 44
Consolidated balance sheet 72
6 Directors, senior management and employees
Reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders’ funds 72
A Directors and senior management 30–31
Company balance sheet 73
B Compensation
Notes to the financial statements 74–129
Remuneration report 35–42
19Exhibits
C Board practices
Corporate governance 32–34
D Employees Note (i)
GlaxoSmithKline people 23–24 Information responsive to this item is incorporated by reference
Note 35 – Employee costs 108 to ‘Memorandum and Articles of Association of GlaxoSmithKline’
Financial record 140 at pages 35–36 of the Group’s Annual Report on Form 20-F for
E Share ownership the year ended 31st December 2000.
GlaxoSmithKline people 23–24
Note 33 – Employee share schemes 103–106
Share options 39
Incentive plans 40
Directors’ interests 42
7 Major shareholders and related party transactions
A Major shareholders 147
B Related party transactions 149Cross reference to Form 20-F GlaxoSmithKline 149
Cautionary factors that may affect future results Related party transactions
The Group’s reports filed with the US Securities and Exchange GlaxoSmithKline has a 23 per cent interest in Quest Diagnostics
Commission (the ‘Commission’), including this Annual Report on Inc. The activities of Quest are not part of the company’s core
Form 20-F for the year ended 31st December 2001 (the ‘2001 business, and the interest is held only as an investment.
Form 20-F’), contain, and written information released, or oral
statements made, to the public in the future by or on behalf of Material contracts
the Group may contain, forward-looking statements. Forward-
The Boards of Glaxo Wellcome plc and SmithKline Beecham plc
looking statements give theGroup’s current expectations or
announced on 17th January 2000 the terms of an agreement
forecasts of future events. Aninvestor can identify these
forthe proposed merger of the two companies. The merger
statements by the fact that they donot relate strictly to historical
wasimplemented by way of a scheme of arrangement on
or current facts. They use words such as ‘anticipate’, ‘estimate’,
27thDecember 2000, on which date GlaxoSmithKline plc
‘expect’, ‘intend’, ‘will’, ‘project’, ‘plan’, ‘believe’, and other
acquired thewhole of the issued share capital of Glaxo
words and terms of similar meaning in connection with any
Wellcome plc andSmithKline Beecham plc.
discussion of future operating or financial performance. In
particular, these include statements relating to future actions, In January 2001 GlaxoSmithKline completed the acquisition of
prospective products or product approvals, future performance Block Drug Company Inc, a manufacturer of toothpaste and
or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, other oral healthcare and consumer products, for US$1,214 million
expenses, the outcome of contingencies such as legal (£843 million).
proceedings, and financial results. The Group undertakes no
obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as Documents on display
a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Documents referred to in this Annual Report are available for
Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and inspection at the Registered Office of the company.
uncertainties. The Group cautions investors that a number of
important factors including those in this document could cause
actual results to differ materially from those contained in any
forward-looking statement. Such factors include, but are not
limited to, those discussed under ‘Risk factors’ on pages 56 and
57 of this Annual Report.150 GlaxoSmithKline
Glossary of terms
Terms used in the Annual Report US equivalent or brief description
Accelerated capital allowances Tax allowance in excess of depreciation arising from the purchase of fixed assets that delay
the charging and payment of tax. The US equivalent of tax depreciation.
Advance Corporation Tax (ACT) An advance payment of UK tax that was made when dividends are paid. No direct US
equivalent.
American Depositary Receipt (ADR) Receipt evidencing title to an ADS. Each GlaxoSmithKline ADR represents two ordinary
shares.
American Depositary Shares (ADSs) Ordinary Shares registered on the New York Stock Exchange.
Called-up share capital Ordinary Shares, issued and fully paid.
CER growth Growth at constant exchange rates.
Combined Code Guidelines required by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority to address the
principal aspects of Corporate Governance.
The company GlaxoSmithKline plc.
Creditors Accounts payable.
Currency swap An exchange of two currencies, coupled with a subsequent re-exchange of those currencies,
at agreed exchange rates and dates.
Debtors Accounts receivable.
Defined benefit plan Pension plan with specific employee benefits, often called ‘final salary scheme’.
Defined contribution plan Pension plan with specific contributions and a level of pension dependent upon the growth
of the pension fund.
Derivative financial instrument A financial instrument that derives its value from the price or rate of some underlying item.
Diluted earnings per share Diluted income per share.
Dividend cover Profit attributable to shareholders/net income divided by dividends payable to shareholders.
Earnings per share Basic income per share.
Employee Share Ownership Trusts Trusts established by the Group to satisfy share based employee incentive plans.
Equity shareholders’ funds The aggregation of shares and reserves owned by shareholders. The US equivalent is
shareholders’ equity.
Finance lease Capital lease.
Free cash flow Cash resources available for payment of dividends to shareholders and for acquisitions.
Freehold Ownership with absolute rights in perpetuity.
Gearing ratio Net debt as a percentage of shareholders’ funds net debt and minority interests.
The Group GlaxoSmithKline plc and its subsidiary undertakings.
Hedging The reduction of risk, normally in relation to foreign currency or interest rate movements,
bymaking off-setting commitments.
Intangible fixed assets Assets without physical substance, such as brands, licences, patents, know-how and
marketing rights purchased from outside parties.
Interest cover The number of times profit before interest exceeds net interest payable.
Interest payable Interest expense.
Interest receivable Interest income.
Non-equity minority interest Preference shares issued by a subsidiary to outside parties.
Preference shares Shares issued at varying dividend rates that are treated as outside interests.
Profit Income.
Profit and loss account reserve Retained earnings.
Profit attributable to shareholders Net income.
Share capital Ordinary Shares, capital stock or common stock issued and fully paid.
Share option Stock option.
Share premium account Additional paid-up capital or paid-in surplus (not distributable).
Shares in issue Shares outstanding.
Statement of total recognised gains and losses Statement of comprehensive income.
Stocks Inventories.
Subsidiary undertaking An affiliate in which GlaxoSmithKline holds a majority shareholding and/or exercises control.
Tangible fixed assets Property, plant and equipment.
Turnover Revenue.GlaxoSmithKline 151
Index
page page page
A Contact details inside back cover Financial statements 68-130
Access to medicines 26 Contaminated land 57 Financial summary 2
Accountability and audit 33 Contingent liabilities 21,89,111 Financial trends and ratios 44
Accounting policies 51,66,75-77 Control of company 147 Fixed asset investments 76,87,88,112
Accounting standards 57,66,74 Corporate Executive Team 4,24,31-33,36,42 Foreign exchange risk management 54,99
Acquisitions and disposals 52,54,68-71,74,75, Corporate governance 30-34,66 Forward-looking statements 2,56,149
93,97,98,118,119 Corporate Social Responsibility Committee 32,34
ADR programme administrator 145, Critical accounting policies 51 G
inside back cover Cross reference to Form 20-F 148 Gearing ratio 44
American Depositary Shares 142,145 Global community partnerships 26-28
Animals and research 21 D Global Supply Initiative 13
Annual General Meeting 4,30,32,33,66,145 Derivative financial instruments 54,55,64,77, Glossary of terms 150
Antitrust 57,96 100,112,120 Going concern basis 34,66
Anti-bacterials 7,8,10,46-49,58-60,74, Dermatologicals 9,59,61 Goodwill 50,52,53,64,70,72,74-76,80,
134-138 Description of business 5-28,74 82,86,87,93,97,98,111,113,
Anti-virals 7,8,10,46-49,58-60,74, Dialogue with shareholders 32 116,118-120,131,140
134-138 Direct-to-consumer advertising 12,58 Governmental investigations 57,94
Associated companies 6,34,43,50,68,71,74-77, Directors and senior management 30-31,39,42, Group companies 127-129
104,105
79,82,83,87,88,93,
Director’s H
97,122,127,130
interests 42 Healthcare Services 61-63,78,80,81,89,138
Audit Committee 30-34,66
interests in contracts 42 Hedging 55,64,112
Auditors, independent 33,34,67,82
remuneration 34-42,66,107 History and development of the company 6
B report 2-64 HIV and AIDS 2,4,7,8,10,14,16-18,
Balance sheet 52,53,63,64,72-77,90,92,99, responsibility 66 26-28,46-49,58-60,134-137
110,111,112,116,120, service contracts 37,66
I
124,126,130,131 share options 36,39,42
Impairment of assets 51,53,64,70,76,86-89,
Block Drug 3,9,13,23,49,50,52,53,55,78,80, share ownership guidelines 37
113,117
86,89,91,97,119,128,129,140,149 Diversity 24
Independent Auditors 33,34,67,82
Board and Executive 4,30-32,66 Divested businesses 44,61-63,69,80
Information technology 23,33
Board committees 30,30-34 Divested products2,8,9,12,47-49,52,58,59,61,138
In-licensing 2,3,13,18,20,53
Business and the Community 25 Dividends 2,32,36,37,52-54,63,64,68,
Intangible assets 51,53,64,70-72,76,
Business performance 2,3,23,24,36,43-45,49, 70,72,74,85,93,113,142-144
86,111,113
50,56,58,61-63,68,74,83,
E Intellectual property 3,4,21,22,26,33,37,
84,130,132,139,143
Early drug discovery 3,19,20 53,56,57,81,94
Business segments 6,78
Earnings/earnings per share 2,3,36,37,44,45,51, Interest cover 44
C 58,62-64,68,83,84, Interest rate risk management 54,99
Capital employed 11,72,131,139,140 114,121,132 Internal control 32-34,66
Capital expenditure 52,70,71,131,140 Employees Investments 50-55,61,64,70-72,76-81,
Cardiovascular 7-9,14,20,46-48, costs 82,108-110 87-90,99-101,112-115,
59,60,74,134-138 diversity 24 117-120,125,131
Cash flow 52,67,70,71,74,75, involvement 28 Investor information 141-146
86,113,117,130,131 numbers 140
J
Cautionary factors that may affect performance and reward 24
Joint ventures and
future results 149 share schemes 37,39,103-107
associates 21,43,50,52,61,68,70,71,
Centralnervoussystem(CNS)disorders 2,3,8,45, training and development 25,55
75-79,82,87,88,93,97,132
46,58,138 Employee share ownership trusts 52,53,55,62,
Centres of Excellence for Drug Discovery 3,19-21 63,75,76,84-87, L
Chairman and Chief Executive 99,104,112,120 Leases 70,71,76,82,87,90,91,102
Officer’s statement 3,4 Environment, health and safety 4,24-26,34,75 Legal proceedings 2,51,56,57,89,94-96
Charitable donations 26,27 89,96,145 Liquid investments 53,71,72,79,90,99-101,
Chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) 16,17 Equity risk management 55 112-114
Combined Code 34,66 European Monetary Union 55 Loans and overdrafts 70-72,82,90,91,99,
Commitments 21,24,26,52,53,76,91,116 Exchange controls 147 100,117,131
Communications 23,24 Exchange rates 2,5,43,45,54,57,58, Lymphatic Filariasis 4,26
Community investment 25,26 64,77,99,112,130,143
Competition 10,12,56 External suppliers 13 M
Consumer Healthcare Malaria 4,7,8,10,14,16,17,26,27
F
business sector/segment 6,78,122,123, Manufacture and supply 6,12,13,19,
Fair values 99,100,110
132,138 24,33,50,57,74,78,83
Finance Committee 30-32
competition 10 Manufacturing and other restructuring 50,62,74,
Financial assets and liabilities 55,99,101,112
manufacturing and supply 13 80,81,89,130,139
Financial highlights 2
marketing and distribution 12,13 Market capitalisation 56,143
Financial instruments 54,55,77,91,99-102,112
new products 49 Marketing and distribution 12
Financial period 66,74,140
sales 44,49,61,78,122,123,132,138 Maturity and counterparty risk 54
Financial position 52-55,125
research and development 21,44 Memorandum and Articles of
Financial record
regulation 11 Association 147,148
5 year record 138-140
trade marks 22 Merger accounting adjustments 77
quarterly trend 132-137
Constant exchange rate (CER) 43 Metabolic and gastro-intestinal 14,19,20,45-48,
Financial reporting calendar 145
58,59,74152 GlaxoSmithKline Index
page page page
N R U
Net debt 21,44,50,52-56,62,70, Reconciliation of equity UK segment 80
71,79,90,91,100,140 shareholders’ funds 53,63,64,72-74,111, US GAAP – reconciliation to US accounting
Net interest payable 44,50,52,54,62,68,78,79, 114,116,120,140 principles 111-126
82,114,122,130,132,139 Registrar 145 consolidated balance sheet 116
Regulation 11 consolidated income statement 114-115
New products 2,3,10,11,17,19,20,22,49,56-58 Remuneration & Nominations comprehensive income and
Non-Executive Directors 32,34,36-38 Committee 30,32,36,66 changes in shareholders’ equity 114-115
Noon buying rate 63 Remuneration report 32,36-42,66,147 consolidated statement of cash flows 117
Nutritional healthcare 6,9,10,12,13,21, Report of the Directors 2-64,66 earnings per share/ADS 114
49,61,78,138 Research collaborations 21 material differences between
Research and development UK and US GAAP 111-113
O accounting policy 75 post-retirement benefits 112,120,124-126
Oncology and emesis 7-9,15,20,47-49,59, animals and research 21 purchase accounting 111,118,119
60,74,134-138 Consumer Healthcare 21 results under USaccounting principles 64
Operating and financial review diseases of the developing world 26 segment information 122,123
and prospects 43-64 expenditure 12,24,44,49,50,53,54, selected financial data 63
Oral care 3,6,9-13,21,49,61 61,64,68,75,97,114,132 taxation 113,121
Other operating income/(expense) 50,61,62,68, Pharmaceuticals 13-21 US$ – convenience translation of principal
81,114,130,132 pipeline 14-17 financial statements 130
Outlook 56 Respiratory 2,3,7-10,16-20,45-49,
Over-the-counter (OTC) medicines 3,6,9,10,74 58-60,74,134-138 V
P Return on capital employed 11,139 Vaccines 3,6-10,13,16,19,21,26,45,
Patents 10,22,26,53,56,57,76,86,94-96,118 Revenue – accounting policy 75 47-49,58-60,74,78,134-138
Payment policies 53 Risk factors 33,56,57 W
Pension and other post-retirement Risk Oversight and Compliance Council (ROCC) 34 World economy 45
benefits 41,53,76,84,89,108-110, S World market 45
112,118-121,124,125
Sales
Performace with Integrity 25,145
Consumer Healthcare 44,49,61,78,122,
Pharmaceuticals
123,132,138
approvals and submissions 13,17,18
Pharmaceuticals 2,4,11,12,44-48,56,58-60,
business sector 6,78,122,123
64,78,122,123,132,134-138
competition 10
SB Clinical laboratories 78,87,98
manufacturing and supply 13,74
Segment information 78-80,122,123,138
marketing and distribution 12,45,74
Selected financial data 63
products 7,8,56,57,94-97,118
Senior management – compensation
sales 2,4,11,12,44-48,56,58-60,
and interests 42
64,78,122,123,132,134-138
Share buy-back 2,3,32,52,53,74,93
research and development 13-21
Share capital 71-73,92,131,146-148
regulation 11
Share premium 72,73,92,131,140
patents and trade marks 22
Share price 39,143,145
Pipeline 3,13,-17
Share purchases 2,54,55
Presentation of financial statements 74
Share statistics 139
Price controls 11,56
Shareholder information 145
Principal financial statements in US$ 66,74,
Shareholder return 2,104,142,143
130,131
Shareholders’ funds 53
Profit and loss account 44,49,61,63,64,68,69,
Shareholdings – analysis 92,147
72-77,84,93,99,102,
Statement of total
110-112,139
recognised gains and losses 68,74,75,113,130
Property, plant and equipment 24,116
Strategic Master Plan 13
Provisions for liabilities and charges 52,53,57,70,
72,89,100, T
108,117,131 Taxation 44,50-52,62,63,68-71,77,
80-84,88,112-114,121,132
Taxation information for shareholders 143,144
Tax rate 44,50,57,62
Trade marks 5,22,53
Treasury operations 54
Treasury policies 54,55
Tuberculosis 26Contact details
INTERNET
Information for investors and about the company
is available on GlaxoSmithKline’s corporate web site
at www.gsk.com
HEAD OFFICE AND REGISTERED OFFICE
GlaxoSmithKline plc
980 Great West Road
Brentford
Middlesex TW8 9GS
Tel: +44 (0)20 8047 5000
UNITED KINGDOM UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Investor relations - Europe Investor relations
980 Great West Road One Franklin Plaza
Brentford PO Box 7929
Middlesex TW8 9GS Philadelphia
Tel: +44 (0)20 8047 5557 / 5558 Tel: 1 215 751 7003
Fax: +44 (0)20 8047 7807 Fax:1 215 751 3233
Registrar ADR programme administrator
Lloyds TSB Registrars The Bank of New York
The Causeway Shareholder Relations
Worthing PO Box 11258
West Sussex BN99 6DA Church Street Station
New York NY 10286-1258
General enquiries, Annual Report orderline and Tel: 1 877 353 1154 toll free
Corporate Nominee service Tel: +(1) 610 312 5315 outside the USA
Tel: 0870 600 3991 inside the UK
Tel: +44 (0)121 433 8000 outside the UK Customer Response Center
Tel: 1 888 825 5249 toll free
Shareholder Investment Plans
Dividend Re-investment queries
Tel: 0870 241 3018 inside the UK
Tel: +44 (0)1903 854 295 outside the UK
Monthly Savings Plan queries
Tel: 0870 606 0268 inside the UK
Tel: +44 (0)131 527 3555 outside the UK
ISA enquiries
Tel: 0870 242 4244 inside the UK
Tel: +44 (0)1903 604 594 outside the UK
Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham corporate PEPs
The Share Centre Limited
Oxford House
Oxford Road
Aylesbury
Bucks HP21 8SZ
Tel: +44 (0)1296 414 144
Corporate share dealing facility
NatWest Stockbrokers
Corporate & Employee Service
55 Mansell Street
London E1 8AN
Tel: 0870 600 3080 inside the UK
Tel: +44 (0)20 7895 5923 outside the UK
The paper used in the production of this document is made from pulp harvested from sustainable forests, also using sawmill residues
and forest thinnings. It is elemental chlorine-free.
Printed by Hyway in the UK using a water-less print process and solvent free inks.www.gsk.com