2005
GSK Corporate Responsibility ReportIntroduction
1 Introduction Page
Our contribution to society 1
About this report 1
CEO and Chairman’s letter 3
Managing corporate responsibility 4
Why CR is important to GSK 4
CR governance 4
Our CR principles 6
Stakeholder engagement 7
Stakeholder feedback 7
How we are responding 9
Government and external affairs 10
Membership of trade associations 10
US lobbying expenditures 10
Political donations 10
Our position on key issues 11
Patient advocacy 11
2 Access to medicine
3 Research
4 Ethical conduct
5 Employment practices
6 Human rights
7 Environment
8 Community investment
9 Data summary
11
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Introduction
Welcome to GSK’s Corporate Responsibility Report 2005. This report explains our
approach to the wide range of social, ethical and environmental issues associated
with our business and reports our performance in 2005. The full web-based report
is available on www.gsk.com
GSK is a research-based pharmaceutical company, with operations in 119 countries.
We make prescription medicines, vaccines, over-the-counter medicines, and consumer
healthcare products. Our business accounts for 6.3% of the world’s pharmaceutical
market. We have strong positions in several therapeutic areas including anti-infectives,
asthma, cancer, cardiovascular, depression, diabetes, HIV/AIDS and urology. For an
overview of our business, see our Annual Report.
OUR CONTRIBUTION TO SOCIETY This report explains our approach to the significant
corporate responsibility issues for our business, including:
In the last 80 years, medicines and vaccines have
transformed millions of lives. They have helped to increase • Access to medicines– how we make our medicines
life expectancy and lowered death rates from conditions accessible to poor patients in developed and developing
such as heart disease, stroke and cancer. Medicines enable countries
many people with chronic diseases to enjoy good health
• Research and development– how we maintain high
and lead full lives. In developed countries, healthcare
ethical standards in our research and the publication of
advances mean most people are no longer at risk from
research results
diseases such as polio and TB that were major threats less
than a century ago. • Sales and marketing– how we maintain high ethical
standards in the sales and marketing of our products
But continued research and development of new
medicines is vital. There are still many serious illnesses for It also covers our employment practices and approach to
which there are few treatments or where treatments may human rights, our environmental performance and our
be improved. community investment.
Discovering and developing new medicines is expensive –
the average cost is around £450 million and it takes an ABOUT THIS REPORT
average of 15 years. Society now relies on the
This report covers our corporate responsibility activity and
pharmaceutical industry to fund most of this research,
performance during 2005. It updates our last corporate
indeed the majority of medicines used around the world
responsibility report published in March 2004. Data relate
have been developed by the pharmaceutical industry.
to the calendar year 2005 (except where stated).
GSK invested £3.1 billion in R&D in 2005 and employs
The environmental data is collected from all of our 81
over 15,000 people. We have 149 prescription medicines
pharmaceutical and consumer manufacturing sites, 5
and vaccines in clinical development.
of our 8 biologicals manufacturing sites and 19 of 21
We believe that our business makes a valuable pharmaceutical and consumer R&D sites as well as all
contribution to society by developing and marketing 7 distribution centres, all 6 major office locations and 7
medicines which improve people’s lives. However we of the smaller office and sales locations. We include data
recognise that the research, development, manufacture for sites that were in operation for all or part of the year.
and sale of medicines raise ethical issues for some Notes attached to the charts explain the scope and data
stakeholders. We listen to these concerns and address collection process for each parameter in more detail.
them where we can. Unless specified as being per unit of sales, figures are
absolute numbers, i.e. total consumption of energy, water
etc. Data in the environment, health and safety sections
of this report are externally verified.
11
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Introduction
continued
The scope of other data relates to our worldwide
operations except where indicated.
We use external guidelines and frameworks to inform
our reporting where relevant. We do not base our report
on the Global Reporting Initiative guidelines but we have
included a GRI Index on our website to show which
elements of the guidelines we cover and to aid
comparison with other company reports.
A number of changes have been made to this year’s
report in response to feedback received during 2005.
We have added a summary to give readers an overview
of our approach to CR and the key issues for our business.
Last year we organized the report according to our ten CR
Principles. This year we are still reporting progress against
our principles but we have reorganized some sections to
make the report easier to navigate.
Information on our marketing practices, previously
contained in Products and Customers, has been
incorporated into the Ethical Conduct section. Information
previously contained in the Leadership and Advocacy
section has been embedded through out the report,
in particular in Government and External Affairs, Public
Private Partnerships and Major Public Health Initiatives.
For more information on our stakeholder engagement
process see Stakeholder Engagement.
21
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
CEO and Chairman’s letter
Corporate responsibility is fundamental to delivering
our business goals. While the interests of shareholders
remain paramount we also need to respond to stakeholder
expectations by helping to address society’s healthcare
challenges.
We accept this challenge. Solving problems such as healthcare provision in the
developing world is not a job for one company alone, however we do have an
important contribution to make. Our access to medicine programmes for HIV/AIDS
and our work with the World Health Organization to eradicate Lymphatic Filariasis
(LF) are evidence of the efforts we are making. In 2005 we shipped 126 million
preferentially priced Combivir and Epivir tablets to developing countries for treatment
of HIV/AIDS and donated 136 million albendazole tablets for the prevention of LF.
Through our public private partnerships we are developing the first pipeline of new
tuberculosis treatments in 40 years and testing new vaccines and treatments against
malaria, a disease which takes a devastating toll on the people of Africa.
Corporate responsibility encompasses how we address and manage issues that arise
from our business activities. Good performance on corporate responsibility supports
our business strategy because it protects and enhances our relationships and
reputation with doctors, governments and patients.
GSK’s core business – the research and production of medicines – makes a valuable
contribution to society. For many people our medicines are, quite literally, life-saving.
But our satisfaction in what we do does not mean we can ignore issues associated
with the research, manufacture and sale of medicines – from the publication of
research results and marketing practices of pharmaceutical sales representatives, to
the use of animals in research and the environmental impacts of our manufacturing
processes.
We are confident we have the right policies and programmes in place so that we
operate to the highest standards. This report provides an update on the progress we
have made against our ten corporate responsibility principles during 2005. Particular
highlights include our new policies on the authorship of research articles, consumer
advertising and patient advocacy, and our Clinical Trial Register that now contains
results from over 2,000 GSK sponsored clinical trials.
We seek views from a wide range of stakeholders and respond to their suggestions
where possible. This report contains new information in a number of areas in
response to feedback we have received (see Stakeholder Engagement). We hope this
report provides the information you are seeking about corporate responsibility at GSK
and we welcome your feedback.
Sir Christopher Gent JP Garnier
Chairman Chief Executive Officer
31
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Managing corporate responsibility
Corporate responsibility supports our business strategy by preparing us to meet
future expectations, protecting our reputation and helping us to reduce business risk.
So it is important that management of CR issues is integrated into our day-to-day
operations.
Our approach to CR is informed by frequent discussions with a range of stakeholders,
including employees, shareholders, patients, doctors, governments and NGOs. For
information on our engagement process and the feedback we have received, see
Stakeholder Engagement and Government and External Affairs.
WHY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CR GOVERNANCE
IS IMPORTANT TO GSK GSK’s Corporate Responsibility Committee consists of non-
To achieve its business goals, GSK focuses on a number of executive directors and provides a Board-level forum for
business drivers: reviewing external issues with the potential to impact on
GSK’s business and reputation. It provides high-level
• build the best product pipeline in the industry to the
guidance on our approach to all CR issues. Members of
benefit of patients, consumers and society
the corporate executive team, including the CEO, also
• continuously improve performance through commercial attend CRC meetings.
and operational excellence
The Committee meets four times a year to review our
• improve access to medicines through a range of policies and progress on our CR principles. Policies and
extensive programmes, both in the developed and activities relating to four of the principles – access to
developing world medicines, standards of ethical conduct, research and
innovation and global community partnerships – are
• be the best place for the best people to do their best
reviewed annually. Other principles are discussed regularly,
work
at least once every three years. The Committee’s findings
Corporate responsibility encompasses how we achieve our are reported to the Board.
goals and implement our business drivers. It means
During 2005 the Committee met four times and reviewed
operating in a way that reflects our values. CR supports
our activity in a number of areas including:
business success by reducing business risks and protecting
our reputation. • Access to medicines
The way we conduct our business affects our relationship • Animal testing
with the patients and consumers who use our products, • Clinical trials in developing countries
the doctors who prescribe our medicines and the
• Community partnerships
governments that regulate our industry. Our reputation
with these people and the trust they place in our products • Corporate responsibility reporting including final sign-
is critical to our business. off of the CR report
By demonstrating to stakeholders that we meet high • Reputation management
ethical standards in all aspects of our work, and that we Management of significant business risks is coordinated by
are committed to helping address healthcare challenges, the Risk and Oversight Compliance Council (ROCC). The
we can maintain their support and retain our ‘licence to ROCC also considers reputational and corporate
operate’. Our reputation, the standards we operate to and responsibility risks.
our employment practices also impact our ability to
For more background information on the CRC and ROCC,
attract, retain and motivate the best people.
see Risk management and compliance on gsk.com.
For more on our business strategy see our Annual Report.
41
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Managing corporate responsibility
continued
Management structure
We believe that day-to-day
GlaxoSmithKline
management of CR issues and
performance is done most effectively
within our business operations, where
experts on all our CR issues work. GSK CR
CEO
Committee
Board
Coordination is provided by a
cross-functional team, made up of
representatives from key business
areas. These representatives are senior Corporate CR
managers and have direct access to Executive Strategy &
the appropriate Executive Team Team Reporting
member. Their role is to oversee
development, implementation and
communication of CR policy across
GSK. This ensures a comprehensive
and consistent approach is taken
throughout the organisation.
We also have a small CR team
that co-ordinates policy development,
reporting, and communication with Access to Stakeholder Community
Environment Advocacy
socially responsible investment Medicines Engagement Investment
analysts.
For details of our Environment Health
Products & Emloyment Human Research & Ethics &
and Safety management see EHS
Customers Practices Rights Innovation Integrity
Management.
GSK’s CR Committee
Sir Christopher Gent Sir Ian Prosser Dr Lucy Shapiro
(Chairman of CR Committee) Sir Ian was formerly a non-executive Dr Shapiro is Ludwig Professor of
Sir Christopher is the former Chief Director of SmithKline Beecham plc. Cancer Research in the Department
Executive Officer of Vodafone He was Chairman and Chief of Developmental Biology and
Group Plc. He is a non-executive Executive of Bass plc (latterly Director of the Beckman Center for
director of Lehman Brothers InterContinental Hotels) and Molecular and Genetic Medicine at
Holdings Inc; a director of the Chairman of the World Travel and the Stanford University School of
International Advisory Board of Tourism Council. He is non-executive Medicine. She holds a PhD in
Hakluyt & Co; and is a Senior Deputy Chairman of BP plc and a molecular biology from Albert
Adviser at Bain and Co. non-executive director of Sara Lee Einstein College of Medicine.
Corporation. He is also a member
of the CBI President's Committee.
51
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Managing corporate responsibility
continued
OUR CR PRINCIPLES Community investment
Our Corporate Responsibility Statement and Principles We will make a positive contribution to the communities
(below) identify our key corporate responsibility issues and in which we operate, and will invest in health and
provide guidance for employees on the standards to education programmes and partnerships that aim to bring
which the company is committed. sustainable improvements to under-served people in the
developed and developing world.
Corporate Responsibility Statement
Engagement with stakeholders
and Principles
We want to understand the concerns of those with an
The mission of our business – to improve the quality of
interest in corporate responsibility issues. We will engage
human life to enable people to do more, feel better and
with a range of stakeholders and will communicate openly
live longer – focuses on the needs of patients. We will
about how we are addressing CR issues, in ways that aim
achieve this mission through our products and activities,
to meet the needs of different groups while allowing us to
while enhancing the contribution we make to society,
pursue legitimate business goals.
sustaining economic performance and operating in an
environmentally responsible manner. Standards of ethical conduct
We expect employees to meet high ethical standards in all
Employment practices
aspects of our business, by conducting our activities with
We will treat our employees with respect and dignity,
honesty and integrity, adhering to our CR principles, and
encourage diversity and ensure fair treatment through all
complying with applicable laws and regulations.
phases of employment. We will provide a safe and healthy
working environment, support employees to perform to Research and innovation
their full potential and to take responsibility for the In undertaking our research and in innovating:
performance and reputation of the business.
• we may explore and apply new technologies. We will
Human rights constructively engage stakeholders on any concerns
We are committed to upholding the UN Universal that may arise;
Declaration of Human Rights, the OECD guidelines
• we will ensure that our products are subject to rigorous
for MNEs and the core labour standards set out by the
scientific evaluation and testing for safety, effectiveness
International Labour Organisation. We expect the same
and quality;
standards of our suppliers, contractors and business
partners working on GSK’s behalf. • we will comply with or exceed all regulations and legal
standards applicable to the research and development
Access to medicines
of our products.
We will continue to research and develop medicines
Products and customers
to treat diseases of the developing world. We will find
sustainable ways to improve access to medicines for We will promote our products in line with high ethical,
disadvantaged people, and will seek partnerships to medical and scientific standards and will comply with all
support this activity. applicable laws and regulations.
Leadership and advocacy Caring for the environment
We will establish our own challenging standards in We will operate in an environmentally responsible manner
corporate responsibility, appropriate to the complexities through systematic management of our environmental
and specific needs of our business, building on external impacts, measurement of our performance and setting
guidelines and experience. We will share best practice and challenging performance targets. We will improve the
seek to influence others, while remaining competitive in efficiency of all our activities to minimise material and
order to sustain our business. energy use and waste generated. We aim to find
opportunities to use renewable materials and to recycle
our waste.
61
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Managing corporate responsibility
continued
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Stakeholder feedback
Engaging with the different groups that have an interest This section summarises feedback on our corporate
in the way we operate is an important part of responsible responsibility (CR) performance and reporting from
business practice. Our stakeholders include employees, CR opinion leaders, SRI investors and employees.
investors, patients, doctors, governments, NGOs,
CR opinion leader survey
multilateral organisations, local communities, suppliers
The CR opinion leader survey sought views from 51
and the scientific community. By listening to them and
people on our CR performance and reporting through
being open about our views and actions we can build
telephone interviews. The survey provided in-depth
trust and address their concerns.
qualitative feedback but was not designed to produce
Most of this discussion takes place in the normal course statistics. This is the second year we have commissioned
of business. For example our scientists meet regularly this survey. Nineteen of the participants in 2005 also took
with academics, researchers and other pharmaceutical part in the 2004 survey. The survey was conducted by an
companies. Through our access to medicine and external organisation.
community investment programmes we collaborate with
Findings
NGOs, multilateral agencies, governments and community
Overall, participants rated GSK’s CR performance more
groups. More information is available on stakeholder
highly than in 2004..
interaction in the following sections: Access to Medicines,
Animal Research, Employees, Suppliers, and Government A significant number also wanted to understand more
and External Affairs. about how our approach to corporate responsibility is
integrated with business strategy and management.
In 2005 we established a panel of external stakeholders
In addition they identified six priority issues for GSK:
to provide ongoing advice and comment on our EHS
performance. The panel is facilitated by The Environment • Access to medicines
Council, an independent NGO. See EHS Management.
• Marketing ethics and advertising
We also seek stakeholder feedback to inform our • Research and development of new drugs
approach to managing and reporting on CR issues.
• Clinical trial ethics and publication of trial results
In 2005 this included:
• Drug pricing
• Engagement with socially responsible investors (SRI).
During 2005 we had more than 30 meetings with SRI • Environmental impacts
analysts and discussed issues including access to Access to medicines– We received positive feedback
medicines, animal rights, supply chain, sales and on our access to medicine programmes in developing
marketing ethics and clinical trials. Fifteen SRI analysts countries, including preferential pricing and research into
attended our annual corporate responsibility (CR) diseases of the developing world. Several stakeholders
briefing and met with 12 senior GSK managers. wanted GSK to adopt a tiered pricing system for middle
• A survey of 51 corporate responsibility opinion leaders income countries and extend access programmes in
in Europe, the UK and the US. Participants included developed countries.
academics, CR organisations, customers, government
Marketing ethics and advertising– Respondents
agencies, investors, the media, multilateral agencies
felt our reporting was weakest on marketing ethics.
and NGOs.
Participants wanted us to be more open about our
• A survey of GSK employees. This assessed employee marketing practices and show how ethical dilemmas
awareness of CR issues and sought their views on the are addressed.
key CR issues for GSK.
Research – There was praise for our Clinical Trial Register.
This section contains a summary of the feedback we More information was wanted on research ethics, our
received through these channels and details of how we relationships with the medical profession and how
are responding. research areas are chosen
Drug pricing– Participants, particularly in the US, wanted
to know how prices are set. There was criticism of profits
made by pharmaceutical companies.
71
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Managing corporate responsibility
continued
Environment– Participants welcomed the breadth of our increased transparency but felt it did not show which
programmes and quantitative targets. They wanted more CR issues GSK considers most important to its business
on our environment strategy and materials efficiency or convey how our approach to CR supports our overall
programmes and for GSK to set a more ambitious CO2 business strategy.
target and implement programmes to address
The majority thought GSK’s reporting would be improved
pharmaceuticals in the environment.
by providing more detail on how stakeholder engagement
CR Reporting influences our approach to CR, bringing more external
Participants were asked to comment on our 2004 CR voices into the report, being more open about challenges,
Report. They liked its comprehensive coverage and and increasing the number of performance indicators.
Feedback from investors
GSK received the following ratings from investors and rating agencies:
Organisation Rating
Association of British Insurers GSK was given a ‘full’ rating for its disclosure of Board responsibilities and
policies relating to social, ethical and environmental issues. This is the
highest possible rating.
Dow Jones Sustainability Index GSK was included in the DJSI World Index. We came 2nd in the sector with
a score of 82% (up from 76% in 2004).
FTSE4Good index GSK was included in the FTSE4Good Index.
EIRIS GSK was rated ‘Good’ in the EIRIS draft report on Access to Medicines.
Only one other company achieved this top rating.
Global 100 Most Sustainable GSK was included in the Global 100 Most Sustainable Companies, based
Companies – Corporate Knights on research by Innovest Strategic Value Advisors. GSK is one of only three
pharmaceutical companies listed
Morley Fund Management GSK’s rating improved from A3 to A2 due to greater disclosure and
management of key impact areas such as R&D into developing world
diseases, access to medicines, ethical issues in R&D, human rights, EHS,
and business ethics.
Oekom Research GSK was rated best in sector by Oekom’s Corporate Responsibility Rating.
We received a B rating, an improvement from B- in 2002.
Sarasin Bank GSK was rated one of the three best performers in the industry based on
analysis of company CR reports.
Covalence GSK was ranked as the top company across all sectors in Covalence’s ethical
ranking of the world’s biggest companies.
81
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Managing corporate responsibility
continued
Feedback from employees • GSK’s approach to the authorship of research articles
An online CR survey was sent to 980 randomly in medical journals in response to concerns about
selected GSK employees to assess awareness of our CR ‘ghost-writing’.
performance and reporting. In total, 375 took part mainly
• Our relationship with patient advocacy groups. We are
from the UK and US, a 38% response rate. The findings
publishing a list of all the patient groups which received
showed that:
financial support from GSK in 2005.
• 70% had heard of the term corporate responsibility or • Our approach to preferential pricing in middle income
corporate social responsibility countries and why we do not operate a tiered pricing
• 27% were aware that GSK produces a corporate system.
responsibility report. Of these, most had heard about • Information about our pilot project to assess the
the report from the myGSK global news site or gsk.com benefits of extending preferential pricing to more
• Respondents felt that the CR issues of most importance products.
to GSK are: ethical business conduct (88%), access to • More information on how we manage human rights
medicines (50%), health and safety (48%), the standards in our supply chain.
environment (25%)
• More information on our environment strategy and
• 70% were aware of GSK’s ethics programmes. For efforts to improve materials efficiency.
access to medicines this was 68%, health and safety
Sometimes we receive feedback and suggestions from
66%, R&D processes 57%, employment practices
stakeholders that we disagree with or are unable to
47%, sales and marketing practices 46%, community
accommodate without damaging the interests of the
partnerships 43%, environment 33%.
company and its shareholders. Where possible we explain
We are looking at ways to increase employee awareness the reasons for this, for example the need to use animals
of our approach to CR and CR reporting. An internal in research.
communications programme is being undertaken and
It is not possible to provide quantitative data or
we will conduct a follow-up survey in 2006 to measure
meaningful indicators for all areas of our CR performance.
its impact.
We will continue to review the performance indicators
How we are responding that we publish and build on them where possible.
We reviewed our Corporate Responsibility Report in the
We will continue to engage with stakeholders to
light of stakeholder feedback and have addressed many
understand their views of our approach to CR.
of the points they made. This includes providing a better
explanation of how corporate responsibility (CR) relates
to our business strategy and more discussion of the GOVERNMENT AND EXTERNAL AFFAIRS
challenges and dilemmas we have encountered.
The pharmaceutical industry is highly regulated and these
Additional content has been provided this year in the regulations can have a significant impact on our business.
following areas: It is therefore important that we engage in debate on
legislation and seek to influence policy decisions that
• Our approach to public policy and political lobbying.
affect GSK. In fact, as a major multinational corporation
We are publishing our positions on key policy issues
we are often approached by governments to give our
as well as our membership of trade associations and
views, along with other stakeholders such as NGOs.
political donations in 2005.
Our size and global reach give us access to governments
• More on our marketing ethics policies and how we
and policy makers. We recognise that we need to use this
implement them, including data on the number of
access responsibly to benefit patients and our business.
employees disciplined or dismissed for unethical
Our public policy work is governed by our External Affairs
conduct.
Code of Conduct, and backed up by factual research and
• Our approach to advertising to consumers.
analysis. GSK’s External Affairs teams monitor changes and
• Our approach on payments to healthcare practitioners proposed reforms to legislation and meet regularly with
conducting GSK clinical trials. government officials to explain our views on a range of
public policy issues.
91
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Managing corporate responsibility
continued
Lobbying on issues affecting the whole pharmaceutical • Organization For International Investment (OFII)
industry is sometimes conducted through trade
• Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America
associations. We may also hire professional lobbyists
(PhRMA)
to support our public policy work.
US lobbying expenditures
GSK believes that, where legally and culturally appropriate,
GSK spent $4,860,000 on federal lobbying activities in
political donations are a legitimate way of supporting the
the US during 2005. This information is reported to the US
political process. We have a Political Donations Policy that
Congress in accordance with the Lobbying Disclosure Act of
governs our activity in this area. Information on donations
1995. This figure includes the salaries and cost of benefits
is given both in this report and in the Annual Report and
for all employees registered to lobby the US government, as
Accounts.
well as the cost of hiring any outside lobbying consultants,
In addition, we have policies governing our interactions the cost associated with the support of lobbying contacts,
with other important stakeholders such as patient such as planning activities, research and other background
advocacy groups. that is necessary. In addition the figure includes the cost of
our running the GSK Washington DC government affairs
This section describes:
office; support staff, the portion of trade association fees
• Our membership of trade organisations associated with federal lobbying and other costs of our
activities in dealing with the US Federal government.
• US lobbying expenditure in 2005
We do not collect data on lobbying expenditure,
• Political donations
separately from other expenses in other countries.
• Our position on key issues
Political donations
• Our approach to patient advocacy and the patient
GSK makes political donations with corporate funds
groups we supported in 2005.
where such donations are authorized by law and are
GSK was one of eight companies given a ‘systematic’ culturally appropriate. In 2005 we contributed £320,000
rating by SustainAbility and WWF in their survey of how to political organisations in the US and Canada. The
100 leading companies report on their lobbying practices. majority of donations are made in the US. All donations
This was the highest rating awarded. A company received are covered by the GSK policy on political donations.
a ‘systematic’ rating if “Coverage of lobbying indicates
that systems exist to actively manage and disclose GSK does not make donations to political parties or other
lobbying and public policy activities. The company likely political organisations in the European Union. See our
discusses policy positions on several material issues in Annual Report for more information.
some depth. However, approach to lobbying is still not Contributions in the United States
fully integrated with company values, business principles
In the US, candidates are financed primarily by
and core business decision-making.”
contributions from companies, individuals, NGOs and
More background information on our approach to public other parties. The rules concerning contributions are
policy is available in the External affairs section of complex – for more information on the exact process
gsk.com. please go to [link to appropriate legislation]. However it
is important to note that corporate funds cannot be used
Membership of trade associations
to support candidates for federal office.
GSK is a member of trade organisations including:
GSK corporate funds are only given to candidates at state
• Association of the British Pharmaceutical Industry (ABPI) level, in those states where such contributions are allowed
• Biotechnology Industry Organization (BIO) by state law. These contributions are an accepted and
important way for companies to engage in the political
• European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries (EFPIA)
debate. In 2005, we donated $548,000 (approximately
• Intellectual Property Owners Association (IPO) £301,000) to candidates for state-held offices in the US.
• Japan Pharmaceutical Association GSK contributions are not made on the basis of political
• LIF (The Swedish Association of the Pharmaceutical party. GSK supports candidates who seek an environment
Industry) that appropriately rewards high-risk, high-investment
industries and believes in free market principles and
101
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Managing corporate responsibility
continued
intellectual property rights. All states make information The issues covered on the website change as and
about political donations publicly available. when new issues or updated statements are prepared.
The current position statements can be found at
Corporate contributions to national political parties and
www.gsk.com/. The current issues covered include:
candidates running for federal office are prohibited by
US law. In accordance with the Federal Election Campaign • Clinical trials in developing countries
Act, there is a GSK Political Action Committee (PAC) that
• Counterfeit medicines
facilitates voluntary political contributions by eligible
employees. The PAC is not controlled by GSK but by • Developing world challenges and access to medicines
our participating employees, who have the legal right • Importation of medicines
to set up a PAC and make contributions to candidates
• Intellectual property and the TRIPS agreement
and political parties at the federal and state levels.
The GSK PAC is run by employees and all contributions • Product diversion
are voluntary. PAC contributions are subject to strict • Preparations for a flu pandemic
limitations. For example, the GSK PAC may not
Patient advocacy
contribute in excess of $5,000 to a candidate for
federal office per election. Patient advocacy groups provide their members with
support and information on how to live with their
PAC contributions are determined by a governing board
condition, represent patient views and advocate on
of PAC-participating GSK employees from across the
issues affecting patients' interests. They are an important
company. As required by law, PAC contributions are
stakeholder for GSK and we engage with them as part
reported to the Federal Elections Commission (FEC), the
of our aim to be a patient-focused company.
agency that oversees federal election activities. In 2005,
the first half of the two-year federal election cycle, the GSK is committed to ensuring that the company works
GSK employees’ PAC contributed $514,000 in total to ethically with patient groups, and that the groups'
379 candidates for state and federal offices. independence and credibility are not compromised.
A global set of principles supports this focus:
Contributions in Canada
In 2005, GSK donated $CAD 42,000 (approximately GSK principles for working with patient groups
£19,000) in Canada to political candidates in those 1. The independence of patient associations, of their
provinces where it is legal. political judgement and of their activities shall be
assured.
Contributions in Other Countries
No contributions were made in other countries during 2. In all co-operative matters, transparency is vital.
2005.
3. Any joint policies undertaken between patients
Our position on key issues associations and GlaxoSmithKline shall be based on
mutual respect and trust.
There is a wide range of issues that affect the industry and
it is important that we have clear positions to contribute 4. GlaxoSmithKline shall refrain from using undue
to the debate. influence to promote its specific medicines or services.
There is some criticism that companies are not transparent 5. When working with patient associations
about their positions on key issues. GSK considers that, GlaxoSmithKline will always comply with local
by definition, when we lobby on an issue then it becomes laws/governance.
public and we prepare all position statements assuming
Throughout 2005 the company focused on
that this will be the case. While we publish position
communicating these principles externally to patient
statements on many key issues on our website, it would
groups as well as, within internal training programmes,
be impractical and inefficient to do this with every issue
to ensure that GSK employees act appropriately with
on which we have a view. We are however, happy to
patient groups.
discuss our position on any issue with legitimate parties.
111
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Managing corporate responsibility
continued
Patient Advocacy Leaders' Summits (PALS) are one of
the ways we engage with patient groups. In 2005 there
were regional summits across North America, in individual
European countries and for the first time, there was a
pan-European summit in Brussels. These meetings give
patient groups the opportunity to learn more about GSK,
and tell the company how it can better support their
work. There are typically a range of workshops for
attendees, including sessions on media-training and
sharing best practice. The patient group representatives
are also able to discuss and debate key issues relating
to patient advocacy and healthcare policy. Attendees
represented a wide range of patient groups including
those dedicated to cancer, diabetes, HIV/AIDS, respiratory
diseases, mental health and epilepsy.
The GSK European patient group advisory board was
formed in 2005. It considers how the voice of patients
can be strengthened across Europe. It is also a sounding-
board that allows GSK to have a forum to consult patient
groups on the future policy direction of the company, as
well as a forum for the groups to raise policy issues that
are important to them. The board has an independent
chair from the European Cervical Cancer Association,
and is made up of representatives from a series of
European groups.
In the USA and in Europe GSK is playing a leading
role, within the pharmaceutical industry and amongst
healthcare stakeholders, to ensure that patient groups
maintain their independence.
In the UK GSK's advocacy work is governed by the
Association of the British Pharmaceutical Industry (ABPI)
Code of Practice which was revised in 2006. The new
code states that there must be a written agreement with
all patient groups that companies work with, and that
there must be a list of all patient groups receiving financial
support from companies. The GSK list is available on
our website.
12Access to medicines
1 Introduction
2 Access to medicine Page
Developing world 13
Research and development 14
Preferential pricing 18
Voluntary licencing 21
Investment in public health initiatives 21
Developed world 23
3 Research
4 Ethical conduct
5 Employment practices
6 Human rights
7 Environment
8 Community investment
9 Data summary
22
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Access to medicines
Millions of poor people in both developed and developing countries cannot obtain
the medicines they need. This is part of a broader problem of access to healthcare which
remains a significant challenge in many parts of the world. The primary responsibility
for addressing this problem rests with governments, but all stakeholders, including the
pharmaceutical industry, have important contributions to make.
This section describes how GSK is supporting efforts to DEVELOPING WORLD
improve access. It covers our:
There is a healthcare crisis in many parts of the developing
• Contribution to the developing world through research, world. Millions of people do not have access to adequate
preferential pricing, partnerships and voluntary licences, food and clean water. Sometimes the political will is
and community investment in important public health lacking, and even when it is evident, governments often
initiatives; do not have the resources to fund the clinics and staff
needed to deliver even basic healthcare. The AIDS
• Pricing arrangements and discount cards for middle-
pandemic has made these problems worse, creating
income countries;
a generation of orphans and depriving communities of
• Patient Assistance Programs and discount cards to help their greatest asset – fit, healthy and productive people.
uninsured patients in the US.
Tackling this crisis is a complex challenge. Poverty is
We believe that our response is not only the right thing to the fundamental cause and a huge barrier to progress.
do but makes good business sense. Companies that adapt Significant political will and extra funding are needed
their business practices to address such challenges will be from new national and international sources to aid
the leaders of the future. In the competitive market for development and build healthcare infrastructure. We
talented people this also helps us to attract and retain welcome the additional resources promised by the G8
the best people. during 2005.
Overall we need to make adequate returns on our We believe that it is the responsibility of governments and
business activities to enable us to invest in the R&D to intergovernmental agencies, supplemented by the work
bring new medicines and vaccines to patients. It is this of many NGOs, to deliver the healthcare needed in these
innovation that underpins the sustainability of the countries. However, the pharmaceutical industry can play
company. a significant role in supporting their efforts.
By finding innovative ways to help poor people in We make an important contribution through:
developed and developing countries access our medicines,
• Research and development into diseases
we are addressing ethical, reputational and commercial
disproportionately affecting developing countries. We
imperatives. For these reasons access to medicines is a
believe GSK is currently the only company researching
strategic business driver of GSK.
both new vaccines and treatments for HIV/AIDS, TB and
We also support under-served communities worldwide malaria – the World Health Organization’s three priority
through donations, funding and practical support, see diseases. Much of this research is conducted through
Community investment. public private partnerships.
• Preferential pricing, specially reduced prices for
antiretrovirals (ARVs), anti-malarials and vaccines.
In 2005, we shipped a combined total of 126 million
preferentially-priced Combivirand Epivirtablets for the
treatment of HIV/AIDS to the developing world;
• Granting voluntary licences. GSK has granted seven
voluntary licences for the manufacture and supply of
generic versions of our leading ARVs for treating
HIV/AIDS in Africa;
132
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Access to medicines
continued
• Community investment in public health initiatives and GSK has created a dedicated group in our pharmaceutical
partnerships that foster effective healthcare including R&D organisation, to focus on diseases of the developing
major programmes to tackle lymphatic filariasis, malaria, world (DDW). This includes a dedicated drug discovery
HIV/AIDS and diarrhoeal disease. centre at our Tres Cantos R&D site in Spain and clinical
development experts in the UK and US. DDW projects are
Research and development
prioritised according to their social and public health
The research and development (R&D) of new drugs and
benefits rather than their commercial returns. A similar
vaccines is an essential element in improving health in the
group exists in our vaccines organisation based in Belgium.
developing world. There are still no effective treatments
for some widespread and life-threatening diseases. Many Unlike many diseases that disproportionately affect the
existing treatments for diseases such as malaria are developing world, HIV/AIDS is different because it affects
becoming less effective due to drug resistance. both developed and developing countries, so there is a
commercial market for new treatments. This encourages
Many diseases disproportionately affect the developing
investment in the required R&D. GSK is an industry leader
world. But lack of resources means there is often no viable
in research into HIV/AIDS treatment.
commercial market for new treatments. Public private
partnerships (PPPs) are helping to address this problem. In total GSK has 13 clinical programmes for medicines and
vaccines against eight diseases1 particularly relevant to the
GSK collaborates with several PPPs including the
developing world. Seven of these projects are for diseases
Medicines for Malaria Venture (MMV), the Global Alliance
that disproportionately affect developing countries.
for TB Drug Development (GATB), the Aeras Global TB
Vaccine Foundation (Aeras), the Malaria Vaccine Initiative
(MVI) and the International AIDS Vaccine Initiative (IAVI).
Public private partnerships
GSK wants to continue investing in research to tackle Venture (MMV) or the Malaria Vaccine Initiative (MVI).
diseases that blight the developing world. However, Importantly, any new treatments resulting from these
there is a dilemma. Pharmaceutical companies must research efforts are made accessible to the developing
be profitable to sustain their business and to continue world at an affordable price.
to develop new medicines. This business model does
Initial drug discovery for diseases of the developing
not work in cases where there is no prospect of a
world (DDW) takes place at our dedicated DDW
commercial return. Unfortunately, because of the lack
Discovery Centre at Tres Cantos. GSK provides the
of resources in endemic countries, there is limited profit
facilities and meets all the costs of running the site.
to be made from new treatments for many diseases
There are 100 scientists employed by GSK at Tres Cantos
that disproportionately affect developing countries.
half of whom are subsidised by our partner organisations
The public private partnership (PPP) model, in which – the Medicines for Malaria Venture (MMV) and the
business and the public sector work together, offers Global Alliance for TB Drug Development (GATB).
a solution to this problem. Research programmes are overseen by joint steering
committees with representatives from GSK and our
In a PPP, companies such as GSK provide the R&D,
partner organisations.
technology, manufacturing and distribution expertise.
Academic institutions may also be involved providing As compounds move into clinical development, GSK
research and disease area knowledge. Public sector provides the clinical, regulatory and manufacturing
partners, such as governments, or organisations such expertise and resources through our global R&D and
as the Gates Foundation, help fund the development supply network. Partner organisations help fund the cost
and delivery costs and ensure that medicines get to the of running clinical trials and address issues of access and
people who need them. Funds are usually channelled distribution. This reduces the costs of development and
through organisations such as the Medicines for Malaria gets new products to patients faster.
142
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Access to medicines
continued
Development Pipeline at end of 2005 for diseases relevant to the developing world*
Focus Pre-clinical Activity Phase I Phase II Phase III Marketed
3
HIV Protease Retrovir, Epivir, Combivir, Ziagen,
Inhibitor Trizivir, Agenerase, Epzicom/
(brecanavir) Kivexa, Lexiva/Telzir
3
Vaccines HIV Streptorix(S. Rotarix– (Rotavirus)
TB Malaria pneumoniae Havrix– (Hepatitis A)
Hepatitis E paediatric) Engerix-B– (Hepatitis B)
Dengue Fever Cervarix Twinrix– (Hep A&B)
(cervical Infanrix/Tritanrix– DTP family
cancer) (Diptheria, Tetanus, Pertussis)
N. meningitis Boostrix( Diptheria, tetanus,
combinations Pertussis acellular)
Polio Sabin – (Polio)
Priorix– (Measles, Mumps and
Rubella)
Typherix– (Typhoid)
Hepatyrix– (Typhoid, Hepatitis A)
Varilrix– (Varicella)
Hiberix– (Haemophilus influenzae
type b)
Mencevax ACW– (meningitis)
3
Malaria N-tert butyl tafenoquine Lapdap, Halfan, Malarone
isoquine CDA
(GSK369796)** (chlorproguanil
dapsone +
artesunate)
3
TB
Other sitamaquine Zentel(de-worming agent)
(visceral Pentostam(visceral leishmaniasis)
leishmaniasis) Banocide(Lymphatic Filariasis – GSK
India)
*more detailed information on our product pipeline can be found in the Annual Report
**isoquine should enter phase 1 in 2006
Progress in 2005
Malaria
In 2004, phase IIb clinical trials of our malaria vaccine We are working with the Medicines for Malaria Venture
for children, that has been in development for 15 years, (MMV), the World Health Organisation (WHO) and
showed unprecedented results. In 2005, new data academic partners to develop CDA, an affordable fixed-
published in the leading medical journal, the Lancet, dose artemisinin combination treatment for malaria in
showed that the vaccine remained efficacious over 18 Africa, based on GSK’s existing anti-malarial, Lapdap. In
months. Several more years of clinical investigation will November 2005 we announced clinical results indicating
be needed before this vaccine is ready for use but these that CDA is likely to be effective against drug resistant
results indicate it has the potential to help save millions of P falciparummalaria as found in Africa. CDA has now
children’s lives. To support this activity, in October the Bill progressed into phase lll trials. Dr Chris Hentschel, CEO
& Melinda Gates Foundation announced a grant to the of MMV commented, “These results suggest that CDA
PATH Malaria Vaccine Initiative (MVI) to extend the public could become a major weapon in the fight against drug-
private partnership between MVI and GSK Biologicals. resistant malaria. Moving into phase III trials marks a key
Most of the new grant will directly support clinical trials step in the development of this promising antimalarial.”
in Africa. From its own funds, GSK will at least match the
$21.4 million it receives from MVI, to help defray some
of the clinical development costs.
152
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Access to medicines
continued
During 2005 GSK and the University of California, San GSK Biologicals also has an in-house AIDS vaccine
Francisco received MMV’s Project of the Year award for our development project using the company’s proprietary
falcipain project, investigating a new class of compounds adjuvant technology. A successful AIDS vaccine might
for use against malaria. We are now conducting further need to combine several of these approaches.
research to identify candidate compounds for development
We had mixed results in our antiretrovirals research in
in 2006. GSK also received the Project of the Year award in
2005. In December we announced positive results from
2004 for our pyridones project. This is the first time that a
a study evaluating the safety, tolerability and antiviral
company has won in successive years.
activity of our investigational protease inhibitor, brecanavir.
Following extensive development work in 2005, we hope Brecanavir is now expected to enter phase III development
to identify a suitable candidate for our pyridones project in 2006. If approved, it may be useful in treating patients
in the first half of 2006 and commence Phase I trials in infected with strains of HIV that have become resistant to
humans in 2007. multiple protease inhibitors.
Significant chemical and pharmaceutical development In October we terminated the clinical trial of aplaviroc, our
was undertaken on our candidate GSK369796 (n-tert CCR5 antagonist, due to concerns over liver toxicity. We are
butyl isoquine) for malaria and we plan to start clinical reviewing the safety data and following-up with all patients.
studies in humans in 2006. During 2005 we progressed
The red tablet versions of our HIV/AIDS medicines
our clinical development programme for tafenoquine, a
Combivirand Epivir, developed to avoid diversion, became
new antimalarial being developed in partnership with the
the first medicines of any kind to be granted a positive
US government's Walter Reed Army Institute of Research.
scientific opinion by the European Medicines Agency
Additionally, we have a number of other targets with (EMEA) Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use.
potential potency against malaria that we are working on This opinion was granted under Article 58 of EU
at our Tres Cantos site or with our collaborators. Regulation 726/2004 which allows the EMEA to give a
scientific opinion on medicines intended for use outside
HIV/AIDS
the EU. The EMEA can now grant a Certificate of
In November 2005, GSK and the Institut Pasteur
Pharmaceutical Product to facilitate registration of these
announced a new European collaboration to develop
ARVs in developing countries.
an AIDS vaccine by fusing genes from the human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) onto an existing measles Liquid formulations of HIV medicines are currently the only
vaccine. GSK will license the measles vaccine vector way to treat very young children. However they are not
technology from Institut Pasteur and the two entities always easy to use in a developing world setting and the
will jointly develop the AIDS vaccine. The project is being WHO and UNICEF have stated that access to solid
supported by a € 5.5 million (£3.7 million) grant from formulations would facilitate the treatment of older
the European Union and will include development of a children. We are currently assessing the development of
production process for the experimental vaccine as well as ARV tablets with a score line which can be more easily
two clinical studies. The first study will evaluate the safety broken into smaller doses. This will help physicians and
profile of the vaccine candidate. The second will examine carers administer the right dose efficiently and safely to
safety and whether the vaccine produces an immune children. We organised and hosted a meeting in
response against HIV in volunteers with pre-existing September 2005 with representatives from the EMEA,
immunity to measles. The clinical studies will begin in the FDA, Médecins Sans Frontières, UNICEF and the WHO
the third year of the five year collaboration. to discuss the development of scored tablets for children.
Our partners showed a great interest in this project and
Earlier in 2005, we also launched a public private
understood the challenges behind this development.
partnership with the International AIDS Vaccine Initiative
We are now consolidating available information into a
(IAVI) to develop an AIDS vaccine using nonhuman
document for further discussion with regulators during
primate adenovirus vector technology. The collaboration –
the first half of 2006.
the first-ever in AIDS vaccine research between IAVI and a
major vaccine company – will facilitate research into GSK has entered into a material transfer agreement with
vaccines against types of HIV that circulate predominantly the International Partnership for Microbicides (IPM) under
in Africa. Under the agreement, IAVI will contribute which GSK will select and provide proprietary anti-HIV
technical expertise and funding, and GSK and IAVI compounds to be tested for possible use as microbicides
researchers will form a joint research team. to prevent transmission of HIV.
162
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Access to medicines
continued
We are supporting clinical trials sponsored by external Rotavirus
organisations – such as the WHO, the UK’s Medical Our vaccine, Rotarix, for the prevention of rotavirus
Research Council and US National Institutes of Health induced gastroenteritis, was launched in Mexico in January
(NIH) – through our HIV-collaborative research programme 2005 and has now been approved in 15 countries in Latin
for resource-poor settings. Twenty-four trials, including America. By early 2006, four countries – Brazil, Panama,
18 in Africa, are currently underway mainly focusing on Venezuela and El Salvador – had decided to vaccinate all
public health issues. Some 12,500 patients currently form, new-born babies. We have distributed 1.4 million doses in
or will form, part of our HIV collaborative studies in the Latin America, enough for 700,000 babies.
developing world.
Rotavirus infection is the leading cause of severe diarrhoea
Tuberculosis (TB) and vomiting (gastroenteritis) in children under two and
TB kills 2 million people a year and is a leading cause of kills around 600,000 children each year – one child every
death amongst people with AIDS in the developing world. minute - mostly in developing countries. Rotarixwas
But no new drugs against TB have been discovered in tested in the largest phase III clinical trial ever performed
more than 40 years. for a vaccine, involving over 60,000 children. Since its first
launch, Rotarixhas been licensed in several additional
During 2005 GSK announced a joint drug discovery
countries worldwide. We continue to seek regulatory
partnership with the Global Alliance for TB Drug
approval for the vaccine in other developing countries.
Development (GATB), the leading public private
partnership working on TB treatments. GATB aims to Cervical cancer
accelerate the discovery and development of affordable Clinical trials data presented at the Interscience
drugs that will shorten treatment and be effective against Conference on Antimicrobial Agents and Chemotherapy
multi-drug-resistant strains of TB. All compounds will (ICAAC) on our candidate cervical cancer vaccine, Cervarix,
be screened to ensure they can be taken with HIV showed very encouraging results. Cervical cancer is the
treatments, since people living with AIDS are often most common cause of cancer deaths in women in the
susceptible to TB infection. GATB will support 25 full-time developing world. Current published data suggest that
scientists working exclusively on the TB drug programme the vaccine could reduce by 70% a woman's lifetime
at Tres Cantos. GSK will contribute a matching number of risk of developing cervical cancer. We plan to apply for
staff and all remaining overhead costs. Under this registration of the vaccine in the US and Europe as well
partnership, GSK is screening a number of compounds for as our International region during 2006.
possible use as new classes of drugs with potency against
Leishmaniasis
TB. Any medicines discovered will be made as affordable
During 2005 we continued intensive development
and accessible as possible to those most in need.
of sitamaquine, a new oral treatment for visceral
GSK continues to provide funds to the Faculty of Health leishmaniasis. This disease affects half a million people
Sciences at Stellenbosch University, South Africa for TB a year in the developing world and is usually fatal if
research projects. These projects aim to identify markers untreated. GSK is providing all the funding for this project.
that can predict whether patients will respond quickly to A new treatment for visceral leishmaniasis is urgently
treatment or if TB is likely to recur. needed, since current medicines are either impractical or
becoming ineffective due to drug resistance. Sitamaquine
In October 2005, GSK and the Aeras Global TB Vaccine
has shown good efficacy in pilot phase II trials. A further
Foundation announced a new public-private partnership
phase IIb study will start in 2006 to investigate a shorter
to develop GSK's TB candidate vaccine which has shown
treatment course and positive results will enable phase III
promising results in early-stage clinical trials. GSK and
studies in 2007.
Aeras plan to conduct additional trials in Europe involving
adults previously infected with TB or vaccinated with
Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG). Studies will then begin in
Africa and other locations to test the safety and efficacy of 1HIV/AIDS, malaria, leishmaniasis, dengue fever, hepatitis E,
the vaccine candidate in populations highly affected by TB. N. meningitis, cervical cancer and pneumonia
172
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Access to medicines
continued
PREFERENTIAL PRICING GSK vaccines are also available at preferential prices. Here
we work with multinational organisations such as UNICEF,
Poverty, lack of political will and insufficient medical
the World Health Organization and the Pan American
infrastructure (hospitals, clinics and health workers) are
Health Organisation, governments and non-governmental
the biggest barriers to accessing healthcare in developing
organisations, to provide appropriate and affordable
countries.
vaccines for the developing world. This includes basic
The affordability of medicines is also important and there polio vaccines as well as specially developed combination
are two elements to this. First is the ability of governments vaccines that target several diseases. In 2005, of the
or patients to pay for medicines. Solving this problem will 1.2 billion vaccines we shipped, around 90% went to
require governments and inter-governmental agencies to the developing world.
make significant additional financial resources available.
Progress in 2005
The second element is the price at which medicines are
In 2005 we shipped 45 million preferentially-priced
sold, an area GSK can help to address. We are making
Combivirtablets, with the majority of these going to
key medicines available to developing countries at more
Africa. This is a 40 % increase on last year and more
affordable prices. This is a major commitment that we
than in the previous two years combined. Shipments
call ‘preferential pricing’ which includes not-for-profit
of Epivirgrew by 135% to 81m tablets. The number
prices for the world’s poorest countries, and discounted
of arrangements we have in place for the supply of
prices for wealthier developing countries. Other factors
preferentially priced ARVs did not change significantly
in the supply chain such as taxes, tariffs and distributor
during the year.
mark-ups can also have a significant impact on the price
of medicines. These factors are out of our control and Overall shipments are relatively low considering the scale
should be addressed by governments. of the HIV/AIDS epidemic but the growth is encouraging.
More doctors, hospitals and clinics are needed to treat
All our HIV/AIDS and malaria treatments are available
more patients and ensure better uptake of preferentially
at not-for-profit prices to public sector customers and
priced medicines.
not-for-profit organisations in all the Least Developed
Countries and sub-Saharan Africa, as well as countries
with eligible Global Fund and PEPFAR projects. This
means that our not-for-profit prices are offered in over
100 countries. Our not-for-profit prices are sustainable
– we do not make a profit on them, but we do cover our
manufacturing and distribution costs. Therefore we can
continue to supply them in the long-term.
Our not-for-profit prices are comparable with generics.
Combivir, our leading ARV, is available at $0.65 a day
including delivery costs. The latest (June 2005) pricing
report by Médecins Sans Frontières1shows that the
average cost of generic equivalents is $0.64 a day and
the lowest priced generic equivalent costs $0.50 a day –
the generic prices do not include shipping costs and
insurance, which are included in our prices.
We negotiate public sector prices with middle-income
developing countries on a case-by-case basis, see above.
1http://www.accessmed-msf.org/prod/publications.asp?scntid=
28620051846504&contenttype=PARA&
182
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Access to medicines
continued
Shipments of preferentially priced Combivir and Epivir
(excluding diverted stock)
2001
Shipments of preferentially priced Combivir and Epivir
(excluding diverted stock) - millions of tablets
Shipments Y2001 Y2002 Y2003 Y2004 Y2005
Combivir 3.5 6.0 11.0 32.0 45.0
Epivir 1.0 1.7 5.2 34.4 81.3
Total 4.5 7.7 16.2 66.4 126.3
19
stelbat
fo
snoilliM
140
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
2002 2003 2004 20052
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Access to medicines
continued
It is difficult to estimate the number of patients treated as
Eligibility for not-for-profit prices
a result of our preferential pricing agreements, since GSK
does not control healthcare provision. A report from the
Our not-for-profit prices are targeted at those countries
UN-led Accelerating Access Initiative (AAI), suggests that
where the need is greatest and the available resources
by September 2005 more than 582,000 people living with
are most lacking. These are the Least Developed
HIV/AIDS in developing countries were receiving treatment
Countries (LDCs) and all of sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) –
with at least one antiretroviral supplied by the seven
a total of 64 countries. In addition, all private
pharmaceutical companies in the AAI (compared with
employers in sub-Saharan Africa who provide care and
221,000 people on treatment in 2004). This includes
treatment to their uninsured staff can purchase our
341,000 patients in Africa. Much remains to be done,
ARVs at not-for-profit prices. The not-for-profit prices
but this growth is encouraging.
are also offered to all Country Co-ordinating
Middle income countries Mechanism (CCM) projects2fully funded by the Global
We can only afford to supply products at low prices in the Fund and projects funded by the US President’s
world’s poorest countries if we can still make an adequate Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR), in their 15
return on them in wealthier markets. Nevertheless, we focus countries. In total our not-for-profit prices are
recognise that many middle-income countries also need therefore offered in over 100 countries.
assistance.
In our target countries we also seek not-for-profit
We negotiate preferential pricing arrangements with arrangements to facilitate access for core public
middle-income countries on a case-by-case basis. We employees such as teachers, nurses, police and fire-
believe this is the best approach since the disease burden, fighters who are not covered by private health
and resources available to address it vary significantly from insurance schemes.
country to country. These arrangements combine a viable
We negotiate prices with the private health sector on
and sustainable commercial return for GSK with increased
a case-by-case basis. We depend on revenues from
affordability for the healthcare systems concerned.
sales to the private market to maintain a local presence
For several more developed countries we are also and much-needed infrastructure in developing
introducing discount cards for senior citizens, see countries. Without this local capacity we would be
developed world below. unable to provide essential services such as training
healthcare workers to use our products, product
Anti-diversion measures
support, safety monitoring and registration and launch
Product diversion, where not-for-profit medicines are
of new products.
illegally shipped back for sale in wealthier countries,
undermines our ability to provide not-for-profit prices A list of products covered by not-for-profit prices and
and denies treatment to the intended patients in poorer eligible countries is available on our website.
countries. We have introduced different packaging and
tablet colours for many of our not-for-profit medicines to
help prevent product diversion. Special tri-lingual ‘access
As expected we found that pricing is just one of a
packs’ are now approved for Combivir, Epivirand Trizivir
number of factors that affect the accessibility of
in over 50 countries, and we have received regulatory
medicines. Lack of healthcare capacity and infrastructure
approval for the red Epivirand Combivirtablets in over
were more fundamental barriers. However, making our
25 countries. GSK has nine ARVs registered under the
products available at more affordable prices did expand
EU’s Anti-Diversion Regulation. We are the only company
usage. There also appeared to be a preference for our
to have registered products under this regulation.
products over similarly priced generics. We are evaluating
Extending preferential pricing the findings from the pilots and will use them to inform a
We set up five pilot projects in collaboration with NGOs strategic review of our business in sub-Saharan Africa.
in Tanzania, Uganda, Nigeria, Zambia and Malawi to
assess the impact of extending preferential pricing to a
wider range of products, such as antibiotics and asthma
treatments.
2The vast majority of Global Fund projects are Country Co-ordinating
Mechanism (CCM) projects
202
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Access to medicines
continued
VOLUNTARY LICENSING INVESTMENT IN PUBLIC HEALTH INITIATIVES
We want to play an active role in addressing the healthcare GSK supports public and community health initiatives in
crisis in developing countries. We believe preferential developing countries through donations of preventative
pricing arrangements are the best way to do this, because medicines, and financial and practical support.
we are able to ensure delivery of a safe, quality product at
We focus this charitable support on efforts to tackle
an affordable price for as long as it is needed. This is where
three major diseases – lymphatic filariasis (LF or
we focus our efforts. But in some situations voluntary
elephantiasis), HIV/AIDS and malaria – as well as our
licences may also help to increase the supply of medicines.
PHASE education programme to reduce diarrhoea-related
Voluntary licences (VL) enable local manufacturers to disease. We partner with non-profit organisations to
produce and sell generic versions of our products. In progress these efforts.
November 2005 we signed a licencing agreement with
For more information on our community investment
Universal Corporation of Kenya. In total we have now
programmes in 2005, see Community Investment.
signed seven licencing agreements for our antiretrovirals
(ARVs) in Africa, where HIV/AIDS is having a devastating Progress during 2005
impact. This includes two VLs in Kenya and five in Eliminating Lymphatic Filariasis (LF)
South Africa, the first of which was granted to Aspen GSK is a founding partner in the Global Alliance to
Pharmacare in October 2001. Some cover just parts of Eliminate LF (www.filariasis.org). LF is a disfiguring disease
Africa and others all of sub-Saharan Africa. prevalent in tropical countries and one of the world’s
leading causes of permanent disability.
A decision to grant a VL depends on a number of factors
including the severity of the HIV/AIDS epidemic in that The Global Alliance is a partnership between
country, local healthcare provision and the economic and pharmaceutical companies, the World Health
manufacturing environment. VLs are not a universal Organization, Ministries of Health, NGOs and community
solution to HIV/AIDS but a specific response to a particular organisations, aiming to totally eliminate LF by 2020.
set of circumstances.
We have committed to provide as many doses of
We discuss VLs with potential partners on a case-by-case albendazole, our anti-parasitic drug used to prevent
basis. Selecting the most appropriate licensee is key. We transmission of LF, as are needed to treat the one billion
need to be sure that the manufacturer will be able to people at risk in 80 countries. In 2005, we opened a new
provide a long-term supply of good-quality medicines and albendazole manufacturing facility in Cape Town, South
will implement safeguards to prevent the diversion of Africa. This will give us the capability to support LF
medicines to wealthier markets. elimination efforts in all at-risk countries.
Voluntary licence holders can combine the active ingredients In 2005, we donated 136 million albendazole treatments,
they have licensed from us with other licensed active worth £14.3 million ($25.8 million) valued at wholesale
ingredients to produce fixed dose combinations. They can prices, to 36 countries. Two new countries joined the
also use the US Food and Drug Administration’s fast track programme in 2005. We have donated over 400 million
approval process for ARVs to accelerate the availability of treatments since 1998, reaching over 100 million people.
generic ARVs for PEPFAR (US President’s Emergency Plan for
We also gave almost £1 million ($1.8 million) in grants
AIDS Relief) program for programmes in Africa.
during 2005 to support the Global Alliance to Eliminate LF.
There has been much discussion about the use of A team of GSK employees helps the Global Alliance in its
compulsory licences, under which intellectual property advocacy, research, community mobilisation and education
rights are taken away from rights holders. Compulsory initiatives.
licenses are one of the flexibilities in the World Trade
In December 2005, GSK’s programme to eliminate LF
Organisation’s TRIPs agreement on intellectual property,
won the top honour for Corporate Social Responsibility
which can be used for humanitarian purposes. GSK
at the inaugural annual Scrip Awards, which recognise
believes that widespread use of compulsory licences will
performance excellence in the global pharmaceutical
undermine the intellectual property framework and be
and biotech industries.
counter-productive in the long term. R&D into new
treatments, especially where commercial markets exist,
such as for HIV/AIDS, depends on protection for
intellectual property.
212
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Access to medicines
continued
Positive Action on HIV/AIDS GSK’s African Malaria Partnership
We recognise the need to support the communities most Our African Malaria Partnership supports education and
affected by HIV/AIDS and have a longstanding commitment behaviour change programmes in eight African countries,
as part of our community investment. Set up in 1992, through partnerships with Freedom from Hunger, AMREF
Positive Action aims to strengthen the capacity of and Plan International.
community based organisations providing HIV/AIDS
GSK has invested $1.5 million in the African Malaria
healthcare services and to increase the number of people
Partnership over three years. This is expected to benefit
coming forward for testing and treatment by reducing
two million people by 2006, by encouraging effective
stigma and discrimination. It recognises that involving people
prevention and prompt treatment, particularly among
affected by HIV/AIDS is key to controlling the HIV pandemic.
children and pregnant women.
We launched new Positive Action programmes in India,
In 2005, we gave a further $1.5 million (£824,000) three-
Kenya and Mexico during 2005, and we now have 20
year grant to a new partner, the Malaria Consortium (a UK
Positive Action programmes running in 30 countries.
NGO), to launch Mobilising for Malaria. This initiative aims
Positive Action is supporting the Reach India project which to focus attention on malaria and generate political
aims to make HIV/AIDS prevention, financial and business commitment and sustained funding to combat the
education available to millions of poor women in rural disease. It will generate media coverage, increase the
India. GSK is giving $500,000 (£275,000) that will be used number of NGOs and community organisations engaged
to develop the capacity of community organisations and in tackling malaria, and give more African communities
self-help groups to reach women in rural areas. In its first the knowledge and tools they need to prevent
three years, this is expected to benefit 500,000 women transmission of malaria.
and 2.5 million family members. Reach India is a project of
Personal Hygiene & Sanitation Education (PHASE)
Freedom from Hunger supported by Catholic Relief
Every year more than two million people die of diarrhoea-
Services and Positive Action.
related disease, mostly children in developing countries.
In Kenya GSK is giving £1 million ($1.8 million) over three These deaths can often be easily prevented through better
years to integrate HIV/AIDS treatment and support services hand washing and sanitation.
into 60 general healthcare clinics.3This will enable
PHASE is helping to reduce diarrhoea-related disease by
patients to avoid the stigma of visiting an HIV clinic. Fewer
encouraging school children to wash their hands. GSK
than 10% of Kenyans know their HIV status. Fear of
established PHASE in 1998 and has invested £1.5 million
stigmatisation is a significant barrier to people seeking
($2.7 million) in the programme. PHASE is run in
testing, diagnosis and treatment services. Positive Action
partnership with AMREF and Plan International – as well
will also focus on training for healthcare professionals and
as Ministries of Health and Education.
the creation of patient self-help groups to increase
awareness and support patients in sticking to their The programme has had impressive results. For example, a
treatment regimes. The programme is a collaboration study by AMREF in Kenya showed that after four years,
between GSK, AMREF (the African Medical and Research 88% of children from participating schools washed their
Foundation), Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation hands after using the toilet compared with 46% from
and the National Empowerment Network of People Living non-participating schools.
with HIV and AIDS in Kenya.
PHASE was extended to Bangladesh during 2005 and now
In Mexico we launched a three-year project with the operates in six countries. Bangladesh is the first Asian
International HIV/AIDS Alliance, and its Mexican partner, country to take part in PHASE. In its first year, the
Colectivo Sol. The project aims to improve quality of programme will be implemented in 64 schools, reaching
life for people with HIV/AIDS, reduce stigma and 20,000 children. GSK is working with a new partner in
discrimination, and help people protect themselves against Bangladesh – Save the Children USA. PHASE will be
HIV/AIDS through education and awareness raising. integrated into Save the Children’s existing School Health
and Nutrition Programme to ensure the project’s long-
For information on our arrangements to supply HIV/AIDS
term sustainability after GSK funding finishes.
medicines at preferential prices to developing countries,
see preferential pricing above. GSK has convened a PHASE steering committee with
representatives from our partner organisations to help
3Source: Kenya Demographic and Health Survey 2003
expand the programme into more countries.
http://www.measuredhs.com/hivdata/
222
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Access to medicines
continued
DEVELOPED WORLD In January 2005, GSK and nine other pharmaceutical
companies created a new card to improve access to
Access to medicines is not just an issue for the developing
medicines for other uninsured Americans, not just seniors.
world. Even in developed countries some patients cannot
The Together Rx Accesscard provides savings of 25-40%
afford the medicines they need. This is a particular
on more than 275 medicines. Approximately 36 million
problem in the US where many people do not have
people, around 80% of uninsured people in the US, are
health insurance. GSK has developed Patient Assistance
eligible to enrol. The participating companies enrolled
Programs and discount cards in the US to help patients
353,113 people in 2005, who received 647,227
without insurance.
prescriptions worth $10.1 million (based on WAC).
We are also introducing discount cards in several middle- GSK assisted 10,947 of these patients, with 31,617
income countries to enable qualifying patients to obtain prescriptions, worth $2.9 million.
prescription medicines at a discount price.
Orange Cards in middle income countries
Programmes in the US
In 2004 GSK introduced Orange Cardsproviding discounts
Patient Assistance Programs provide prescription medicines on certain GSK prescription medicines for eligible patients
to low-income, uninsured patients free or at minimal cost. in Bulgaria, Lithuania and Ukraine. The nature of the
GSK operates several programmes, including Commitment discounts varies between countries, depending on the
to Accesswhich covers cancer treatments and Bridges to needs of the patient and the way in which the healthcare
Accesswhich covers other medicines for outpatients. system operates.
Patients are registered through one phone call from a
Our Orange Cardin the Ukraine gives all asthma and
patient advocate and receive medicine at their local
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease patients who are
pharmacy or by mail order. In 2005, 565,000 patients
under 25 or over 50, an average discount of 19% on
received GSK medicines worth $463.8 million through
GSK’s Seretide asthma medicine. Asthma patients of any
these programmes, compared with $372.5 million in
age who suffer disabilities or who are affected by the
2004. The value of the medicines is calculated using the
Chernobyl nuclear disaster are also eligible. Eligibility is
wholesale acquisition cost (WAC).
assessed by the patient’s doctor and patients can receive
GSK was the first pharmaceutical company in the US to the medicine at participating pharmacies. A hotline
offer a card providing savings on medicines to low-income number has been set up to help patients find their nearest
senior citizens and disabled people. Known as the Orange pharmacy. In 2005, 3,500 patients enrolled and received
Cardthis enabled these people to buy GSK outpatient discounts worth $176,000.
prescription medicines at a discount of up to 40%. In
In Lithuania, our Orange Cardgives senior citizens an
2005, 205,672 Orange Cardholders received 49,084
average discount of 40% on the patient co-payment on
prescriptions, saving $5 million (based on WAC).
all GSK prescription medicines. So far more than 12,000
In 2002, GSK and six other pharmaceutical companies patients have applied for an Orange Cardand 155
established the Together Rxcard which provided discounts pharmacies are registered to participate. In 2005, 3,000
on over 155 prescription medicines for low-income senior patients received discounts worth £20,000 ($36,400). In
citizens who are eligible for Medicare. In 2005, 347,835 December we widened the group who are eligible for the
people received 463,901 GSK prescriptions through this Orange Cardto include disabled people.
programme, saving $7.5 million (based on WAC).
A GSK Orange Cardwas also introduced in Bulgaria in
Our access programmes in the US will change significantly May 2004 for low-income patients with chronic diseases
in 2006 with the launch of a new Medicare prescription such as asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
drug coverage programme. The Orange Cardand and diabetes. Card holders receive an average 35%
Together Rxprogrammes finished on 31 December 2005 discount on four GSK prescription medicines. In 2005,
as those patients are now eligible for the new Medicare 36,000 patients received discounts worth over Euro 1.4
programme. We will report on the roll-out of these million ($1.75 million)
changes next year.
232
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Access to medicines
continued
Summary of GSK discount programmes
Country GSK Programme Number of Patients Value of Benefit to Patients
US Patient Assistance Programs – Free or 565,000 received $464 million
minimal cost medicines for low-income, prescriptions
uninsured patients.
US Orange Card– Discounts for low-income 205,672 received $4.992 million
senior citizens and disabled people. prescriptions
US Together Rx– Discounts for low-income 347,835 received $7.561 million
senior citizens. Joint industry programme. prescriptions
US Together Rx Access– Discounts for all 10,947 received $2.912million
low-income uninsured patients. Joint prescriptions
industry programme.
Bulgaria Orange Card– Discounts for low-income 36,000 patients $1.75 million
patients with chronic diseases. received prescriptions
Lithuania Orange Card– Discounts for senior citizens 12,000 enrolled $36,400
and disabled people
Ukraine Orange Card – Discounts on asthma 3,500 enrolled $176 000
medicine for patients under 25 or over 50.
CASE STUDY
A prescription for combating global diseases The Medicines for Malaria Venture (MMV) now
manages the largest portfolio of malaria drug research
Malaria kills over one million people a year, mostly
in history with 21 projects at different stages of
children in developing countries. Beyond the human
development. GSK is one of several partners in MMV
toll, malaria costs Africa at least $12 billion a year in
along with academic institutions, biotech firms and
lost growth and accounts for around 40% of public
other pharmaceutical companies.
health spending.
One of our MMV projects is CDA, an affordable fixed-
Until recently there was little research devoted to
dose combination treatment for malaria in Africa. CDA
malaria and other developing world diseases.
is based on GSK’s Lapdap, itself one of the first new
Developing countries often don’t have the money
malaria treatments developed through a PPP. In 2005,
to pay for new medicines so there is little incentive
clinical trials showed that CDA may be effective against
for companies to develop them.
drug resistant malaria.
In the last five years, public private partnerships (PPPs)
A similar partnership, the Malaria Vaccine Initiative is
have transformed the research landscape for malaria
accelerating the development of a malaria vaccine.
and other developing world diseases. GSK is involved
GSK clinical trials in 2004 and 2005 showed that the
in several such partnerships. In a PPP, public sector
vaccine, Mosquirix, is efficacious in children aged 1-5
organisations including governments and private
over an 18 month period. This is the first time a vaccine
foundations, such as the Bill & Melinda Gates
has been proved efficacious against a parasitic disease
Foundation, help fund research and may also help
in humans. These results demonstrate the feasibility of
developing countries purchase new products once
developing an efficacious vaccine against malaria that
they are registered.
could significantly contribute to reduce the intolerable
global burden of this disease.
24Research
1 Introduction
2 Access to medicine
3 Research Page
Animal research 25
Conduct of clinical trials 29
Training and auditing for clinical trials 31
Clinical trial information and results 32
4 Ethical conduct
5 Employment practices
6 Human rights
7 Environment
8 Community investment
9 Data summary
33
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Research
Research and development (R&D) of new medicines and vaccines is at the core of our
business, and makes a significant contribution to society.
New medicines and vaccines have brought huge benefits to the health and quality of life
of millions of people over the last 100 years. But continued R&D remains as important
as ever. There are still many serious, debilitating and life threatening illnesses for which
there are no effective treatments or where treatments could be significantly improved.
In 2005 we invested £3.1 billion ($5.6 billion) and ANIMAL RESEARCH
employed over 15,000 people in R&D. Our goal is to
Animal research is essential to understand disease and
build the best product pipeline in the industry. Our
to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of new medicines
research aims to meet unmet medical needs. Our pipeline
and vaccines before they are given to people.
includes compounds with the potential to make a major
contribution to healthcare in developing countries (see Regulations require new medicines to be tested on
Access to medicines). Although this work is essential, animals before being tested on humans for safety reasons.
there is often little or no return on investment for new Some vaccines have to be tested on animals each time a
treatments in this area. We seek partners to help fund new batch is produced. We estimate that animal research
these projects. accounts for around 5% of all GSK research expenditure.
Throughout the R&D process we seek the views of GSK has 14 animal research laboratories in Europe, Japan,
patients to inform our research. Focusing on patient needs Singapore and the US. Some research (around 7% of our
drives innovation which brings commercial success. total animal research) is conducted by external contractors
on our behalf. This percentage has remained relatively
We recognise that biomedical and pharmaceutical
constant over the last three years.
research raises ethical concerns – from the use of new
technologies to the objective reporting of clinical trial Over 98% of the animals used by GSK are rodents (such
results. We are committed to attaining high ethical and as rats, mice, guinea pigs) and rabbits. The remaining 2%
scientific standards in all our R&D work. This section includes fish, ferrets, pigs, dogs, cats and primates.
explains our approach to:
Our goal is to use animals only when scientifically
• Animal research, and our efforts to reduce, refine and necessary, and then to use as few animals as possible and
replace animal testing. minimise their distress. Our animal research laboratories
are subject to strict internal and legal controls. GSK is
• The conduct of clinical trials. How we ensure GSK-
committed to the 3Rs – reduction, refinement and
sponsored clinical trials are carried out to the same
replacement – and to achieving the highest standards of
ethical standards irrespective of where they are
animal welfare. We run award programmes to encourage
conducted.
implementation of the 3Rs, share best practice with others
• Training and auditing for clinical trials. How we train in our industry and communicate our approach to
GSK employees involved in clinical trials and how we interested parties.
check that trials are carried out to Good Clinical Practice
This approach is having an impact. Despite a significant
(GCP) standards.
increase in R&D activity since 1994 the number of animals
• Clinical trial information and results. How we publicly used by GSK in our laboratories is broadly similar to that
disclose trial information and results through journal of eleven years ago.
articles, the GSK Clinical Trial Register and other public
databases.
Background information on our approach to new
technologies is available on our website.
253
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Research
continued
Animals used by GSK in 2005
0.6%
0.3%
1.1%
Mouse
6%
Rat
Guinea pig
Other
62%
Rabbit
30%
Other rodent
Animals used by GSK in 2005
Animal Used %
Mouse 62.0%
Rat 30.0%
Guinea pig 6.0%
Other 1.1%
Rabbit 0.6%
Other rodent 0.3%
263
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Research
continued
Change in R&D activity compared to change in number of animals used in
GSK research laboratories (figures normalised to 1994 levels)*
250%
200%
150%
100%
50%
0%
1994 2002 2003 2004 2005
Change in R&D activity compared to change in number of animals
used in GSK research laboratories*
Year Animals Used R&D Acivity
1994 100.0% 100.0%
1995 85.9% 120.4%
1996 83.1% 128.8%
1997 86.5% 135.2%
1998 95.5% 140.7%
1999 92.5% 154.0%
2000 92.8% 168.6%
2001 92.4% 176.2%
2002 103.3% 191.8%
2003 105.0% 195.8%
2004 103.9% 203.0%
2005 102.3% 227.6%
* Around 7% of our total animal research is conducted by external contractors on
our behalf. This percentage has remained relatively constant over the last
three years.
27
4991
ecnis
egnahc
%
227.6%
R&D activity
Animals Used 203.0%
195.8%
191.8%
176.2%
168.6%
154.0%
140.7%
135.2%
128.8%
100% 120.4%
1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 20013
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Research
continued
The three Rs Sharing best practice
The 3Rs commit us to: reducing the number of animals GSK participated in a study by the UK Associate
used in each study; refining studies to minimise pain and Parliamentary Group for Animal Welfare on ‘The use of
maximise the information obtained from each animal; and animals in vaccine testing for humans’. Information on
replacing animal studies with alternative methods our work to develop new tests for vaccines, such as the
wherever possible. replacement of primates with mice in testing for oral
polio vaccines, is included in the final report published
Recent GSK advances in research techniques supporting
in March 2005, see
the 3Rs and animal welfare:
http://www.apgaw.org/userimages/Vaccinetesting.pdf.
1.Redesigning animal studies and refining testing
The annual GSK Laboratory Animal Welfare Prize
methods so that more outputs (e.g biomarkers similar
recognises external researchers or laboratories developing
to those measured in blood tests in human clinical trials)
the best new techniques for implementing the 3Rs. From
can be obtained from the same animal, while it is alive.
2006, we will increase the prize to £10,000 and it will be
This reduces the total number of animals needed to
awarded through the new UK National Centre for the 3Rs.
obtain this data.
Together with industry partners in the Association of the
2.Use of radio-telemetry technology that enables
British Pharmaceutical Industry, we are funding a new
continuous measurements to be made (e.g. for blood
three-year post at the National Centre for the 3Rs to
pressure, heart rate, and temperature), without
encourage sharing of industry best practice.
disturbing or restraining the animal.
Regulation and internal controls
3.Observation of the night-time activity of marmoset
Our laboratories comply with strict national laws,
monkeys which resulted in improvements to their nest
guidelines and codes of conduct on animal welfare.
boxes for resting and sleeping.
Regulators carry out regular unannounced inspections
See our website for more background information on of our sites to check standards of animal care.
implementation of the 3Rs at GSK.
To ensure appropriate use of animals, all proposed animal
Training and awareness tests must be reviewed by our Ethical Review Committee.
We provide extensive training on the 3Rs to staff who GSK laboratories, and any external laboratories conducting
are involved in the care and use of animals, and we have research on our behalf, must follow our Code of Practice
a number of initiatives to increase awareness of animal on animal research which includes best practice standards
welfare. For example, we produce quarterly bulletins for animal care and use. We reviewed and updated our
which review recently published journal and news items Code of Practice and Policies in 2005.
on these subjects. A UK-based 3Rs committee made up
'Best practice' is defined as a combination of what is
of GSK scientists, statisticians, senior managers, animal
currently known from the scientific literature, from
technicians and veterinarians encourages a 3Rs culture
published recommendations, and from the knowledge
at GSK through seminars and production and promotion
of experts within and outside GSK. Independent
of ‘Recommended Practice’ guidelines for scientific
accreditation by the Association for the Accreditation
procedures and animal welfare.
and Assessment of Laboratory Animal Care (AAALAC)
Our Animal Welfare Awards encourage employees to find International is one way laboratories can demonstrate
alternatives to animal research. The awards, presented by that they meet best practice.
GSK’s R&D Chairman, recognise employees who have
Ten of our laboratories are accredited by AAALAC
made outstanding advances in implementing the 3Rs. In
including all our animal laboratories in Belgium, Italy,
2005 awards were made for further development in the
Spain, the UK and US. At present the vast majority of the
use of advanced medical imaging systems to minimise
animals used by GSK are in AAALAC accredited facilities.
animal use.
We aim to achieve AAALAC accreditation for all our
A GSK animal technician was awarded the 2004 Andrew laboratories conducting animal research.
Blake Tribute Award by Seriously Ill for Medical Research –
Communicating our approach
the UK national patients’ group in support of humane
Animal testing is clearly a very sensitive issue and some
animal research – for a paper on ‘Improvements in the
people hold strong views on it. We believe it is important
housing, husbandry and welfare of ferrets at GSK’.
283
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Research
continued
to explain the need for animal research and to be open All clinical trials, wherever they are carried out, are
about what we do. conducted according to the Good Clinical Practice (GCP)
guidelines developed by the International Conference on
GSK took part in a two-year detailed ethical review by the
Harmonisation (ICH) and the principles contained in the
Nuffield Council on Bioethics on ‘The ethics of research
World Medical Association Declaration of Helsinki on the
involving animals’, published in 2005. This concluded that
‘Ethical Principles for Medical Research Involving Human
animals can be useful models for studying specific aspects
Subjects’ (2004). The ICH guidelines provide an
of human biology and disease and the likely effects of
internationally accepted ethical and scientific quality
chemicals and medicines in humans. However, the
standard for designing, conducting, recording and
usefulness of animal models has to be judged on a
reporting trials. They cover issues such as the selection and
case-by-case basis for each type of research or testing.
training of trial investigators, gaining informed consent
The report recommended that more information be made from trial participants, monitoring and quality assurance.
available on the goals and welfare implications of animal
We have policies to ensure that medical practitioners
research and alternative scientific methods to enable
running GSK-sponsored clinical trials are selected and
interested parties to judge whether specific types of
recompensed appropriately. Our policy on Payments to
research are justifiable. It emphasised the importance of
Healthcare Practitioners and Institutions Conducting GSK-
using alternatives to animal research and the development
Sponsored or GSK-Supported Clinical Studies states that
of new alternative methods. It condemned the use of
clinical trial investigators must be selected solely on their
violence and intimidation by those opposed to animal
qualifications to conduct clinical research. Their history of
research. GSK endorses the report’s findings.
using GSK products must not be taken into account.
Our laboratories host visits from schools, colleges, animal Payments to practitioners reflect fair market value for the
welfare organisations and others. In 2005, we also made work performed and no payments are offered or made
over 25 visits to UK schools and about 10 visits to US that could influence their judgement on whether to enrol
schools and community groups to discuss issues around or maintain a participant in a clinical study
animal research. We engage regularly with animal welfare
Standards for clinical trials
organisations, our investors and other interested parties,
Trial protocols (the plan for how a clinical trial will be
as well as contributing to the debate in the media.
conducted) are reviewed by external regulatory agencies in
In an article on animal research and the impact of the relevant countries when required and all protocols are
animal rights extremism the Financial Times noted that considered by relevant ethical review committees whose
“GlaxoSmithKline has led the UK pharmaceutical industry remits cover the sites where studies will take place.
in a cautious move towards more openness about its use
An ethics review committee is composed of lay people,
of animals” (20 October 2005).
medical professionals and scientists. They assess whether
We accept the legitimate right to lawfully protest against a trial is justified and whether it is designed and will be
animal research as a part of a free society but condemn conducted according to appropriate ethical standards.
the use of violence and intimidation by those opposed to Ethics committees have the power to reject or stop a
animal use. clinical trial.
Safety data are routinely collected throughout
CONDUCT OF CLINICAL TRIALS development programmes and are reported to regulators
in line with applicable regulations as well as being
The safety and effectiveness of new medicines must
reviewed by GSK on an ongoing basis for any safety
be evaluated in human clinical trials before they can be
signals. The GSK Global Safety Board is responsible both
approved for marketing. Regulators will only give approval
for approval of pivotal protocols and internal assessment
if trials demonstrate that a product is safe and effective
of any issues related to patient safety that arise during the
and that its benefits outweigh any risks from potential
development programme. We audit clinical trials to ensure
side effects.
they are conducted to the appropriate standards, see
A new product will typically be tested through three Training and Auditing for Clinical Trials.
stages of clinical trials. These involve both healthy
individuals and patients with the relevant disease.
In 2005 there were 149 projects in clinical development.
293
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Research
continued
Clinical trials outside Western Europe and • As the number and scale of trials taking place in North
North America America and Western Europe increases it is more difficult
GSK conducts clinical trials to answer scientific questions to find experienced investigators who are able to start
and to meet regulatory requirements. We seek to conduct trials and recruit suitable patients quickly. Fewer patients
clinical trials where: are enrolled into trials in other countries so it is easier to
find participants. This speeds up the research process and
• The population is relevant to the scientific question and
helps ensure new medicines get to patients more quickly.
where the results can be generalised to broader
• Patients in these countries have often used fewer
populations.
medicines than those in North America and Western
• High quality data can be obtained.
Europe. This makes them good candidates for a clinical
• Costs can be minimised. trial because it is easier to assess the effect of the
medicine being tested.
Most clinical trials take place in Western Europe and North
America. Trials in developing countries are also conducted • Regulators around the world now require significant
to evaluate new medicines for many different diseases. amounts of clinical data to approve a medicine. This
These include diseases that were previously considered impacts both the pool of available patients in North
as only prevalent in the developed world, but which are America and Western Europe and increases the costs
now common in developing countries. We are therefore associated with conducting clinical trials in these
looking to increase the number of patients we recruit into countries. Recruitment costs per patient in countries
trials in Central and Eastern Europe, Asia, South America outside North America and Western Europe are lower,
and South Africa. In addition, GSK has an ongoing thereby allowing pharmaceutical companies to meet
commitment to invest in research and development regulatory requirements and financial demands.
that targets diseases which disproportionately affect
Relevant populations
developing countries (e.g., malaria). Clinical trials in
GSK is committed to investing in R&D for diseases
developing countries are usually required to develop
disproportionately affecting developing countries, see
these investigational compounds. It is important to note
Access to Medicines. These compounds must usually be
that clinical trials of investigational medicines are not
tested through clinical trials in developing countries where
conducted in countries when it is known at the outset
the disease is prevalent and the medicine is relevant for
that there is no intent to pursue registration and make
the local population. For example, the incidence of malaria
the medicine available for use in that country.
in the developed world is very low. This means we can
Development of medicines only conduct scientifically robust clinical trials for new
GSK is starting to perform more trials in regions such as malaria treatments in developing countries.
Central and Eastern Europe, South Africa, Latin America
There are concerns that trials in these regions may not
and parts of Asia. There are several reasons for this:
be carried out to the same high standards as those in
• Healthcare infrastructure and clinical trial capabilities Western Europe and North America. GSK-sponsored
in these regions have improved significantly in recent clinical trials are conducted to the same ethical standards
years. For example, many physicians, now working in irrespective of the location. All studies meet international
developing countries, have been trained and educated and national regulatory and legislative requirements and
to global standards. Therefore, clinical trials can now be are conducted in accordance with principles of Good
more readily conducted and effectively monitored in Clinical Practice (GCP) and the principles contained in the
these countries. World Medical Association Declaration of Helsinki on the
‘Ethical Principles for Medical Research Involving Human
• Changes in living standards mean diseases previously
Subjects’ (2004).
common only in the developed world (e.g., hypertension
and diabetes) are now becoming prevalent in developing In some of the least-developed countries additional
countries. Including patients from many ethnic measures are often needed. For example, in cultures other
backgrounds enables us to develop medicines in a truly than those in Western society, while still complying with
global fashion and helps us to evaluate whether new ethical and legal requirements, additional steps are taken
treatments are suitable for different ethnic groups. to match the objectives of informed consent to local
culture. For example local leaders and/or family members
may need to be involved.
303
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Research
continued
Post-trial treatment We keep detailed training records which are routinely
We are sometimes asked what happens to a patient’s requested by regulatory authorities when undertaking
treatment at the end of a trial. an inspection to assess the competence of employees
undertaking clinical trials.
It is important to realise that GSK is not, in general,
responsible for the provision of nationally licensed GSK’s internal audit department conducts audits of GSK
medicines (treatments already approved for use) after systems and processes involved in the conduct of trials,
a trial. For this reason, GSK-sponsored clinical trials in as well as auditing clinical research organisations and
chronic conditions will not be carried out unless we are investigators performing clinical research on our behalf.
assured at the outset that the national healthcare system In 2005, 170 audits were conducted:
is able to provide, and is responsible for, the continued
• 106 audits of investigator sites conducting GSK-
care of trial participants, after the trial. Importantly where
sponsored trials. This represents approximately 5%
patients are initiated on nationally licensed medicines
of investigator sites participating in pivotal clinical trials
during a trial in a chronic disease, we need to be assured
(pivotal clinical trials are those trials that provide the
that, where there are no suitable alternatives, these
primary data on which regulatory approval is based).
medicines will be made available after the trial to those
• 13 audits of internal GSK systems and processes used
patients who derived a measurable medical benefit.
in managing clinical trials/data.
GSK also recognises that there may be circumstances
• 32 audits of clinical research organisations carrying out
when there is a compelling medical rationale for patients
clinical trials on GSK’s behalf.
who have derived a measurable medical benefit from an
investigational compound (a medicine that has not yet • 9 audits of GSK Medical Departments based in specific
been approved) during a clinical trial to continue to countries.
receive that compound. For example, if the illness being
• 10 audits conducted in response to suspected
treated is life threatening or seriously debilitating and
irregularities.
there are no other treatments available or there are
significant risks in switching patients to alternative In 2005, these audits resulted in 127 findings that needed
treatments. When this is the case, post-trial treatment further investigation and 3 investigators were reported to
with the investigational compound is provided with regulatory agencies.
appropriate oversight, for example in a clinical trial
Audit results are reported quarterly to the R&D Risk
setting. GSK commits to provide the investigational
Management & Compliance Board, and annually to the
compound for as long as necessary or until the
GSK Audit Committee. Any concerns or issues identified
compound is approved and licensed in that country.
during audits are fully investigated and appropriate action
taken. This may include retraining or, in severe cases,
dismissal for the individuals concerned as well as
TRAINING AND AUDITING FOR CLINICAL TRIALS
development of new training programmes or procedures
We provide training to ensure that clinical trials are
to prevent a reoccurrence. Trial data may also be re-
performed to high ethical and quality standards. We audit
analysed.
the conduct of clinical trials to ensure they are carried out
according to Good Clinical Practice (GCP) guidelines. Inspections of investigators, clinical research organisations,
independent ethics committees (IECs)/Institutional Review
All employees involved in designing, conducting and
Boards (IRBs) and sponsors of clinical trails are also carried
monitoring GSK-sponsored trials are trained in GCP.
out by regulatory authorities to ensure the safety of trial
Training is mandatory and employees must have
participants, the quality of data, and that trials are
completed the required training before starting or
conducted according to GCP. During 2005 there were
changing jobs. In 2005 there were 13,085 training
more than 50 such inspections of GSK and investigators
activities related to GCP. Each ‘training activity’ represents
used by GSK to conduct clinical studies.
a successful completion of an e-learning module or
instructor-led course related to GCP by one of our
employees or complementary workers.
313
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Research
continued
CLINICAL TRIAL INFORMATION AND RESULTS GSK follows the PhRMA Principles on the Conduct of
Clinical Trials and the Communication of Clinical Trial
We make the results of our clinical trials widely available
Results and is committed to timely communication of
to healthcare practitioners and others who use or evaluate
results for all products approved for marketing.
the use of our medicines. We also publicly disclose
information on ongoing trials. Wherever possible we publish our trial results in peer-
reviewed scientific and medical journals, or in conference
Ongoing clinical trials
abstracts and proceedings. These are used by research and
Publicly available internet-based registration of ongoing
healthcare communities to obtain the latest information
clinical trials can provide a stimulus for increased
on treatments.
participation in clinical research. It also provides an
important reference point so interested parties can track GSK cannot guarantee publication by these methods since
the subsequent disclosure of clinical trial results. this is at the discretion of journal editors and conference
organisers. For this reason, we launched the GSK online
GSK is legally required to post summary protocol
Clinical Trial Register in 2004, to supplement prescribing
information for ongoing studies of treatments for serious
information and publications in the scientific literature.
or life-threatening diseases conducted under a US
The register contains results and protocol information
Investigational New Drug Application on the National
from GSK-sponsored trials of marketed medicines. It also
Institutes of Health website (www.ClinicalTrials.gov).
provides references to publications that have appeared in
During 2005, we made an additional commitment to post
medical journals. Anyone can use the internet to access
protocol summaries of all patient clinical trials, irrespective
the register.
of the countries involved, initiated on or after 1 November
2004 or ongoing as of 1 July 2005 to clinicaltrials.gov. There have been concerns about ghost writing of journal
At the end of 2005 there were 159 protocol summaries articles, where doctors put their names to articles written
of actively recruiting clinical trials on ClinicalTrials.gov. by pharmaceutical companies. GSK’s approach is that
authorship and acknowledgements for articles must
Our postings meet the requirements of the International
be consistent with journal guidelines and must be
Committee of Medical Journal editors. For non-phase III
determined based on the level of contribution to study
trials, our policy is to delay registration of certain data
design, data acquisition, analysis and interpretation,
elements on an exceptional basis when they are
and writing or revising the manuscript. The named
competitively sensitive.
senior author for a paper must actively participate in
Clinical trial results the drafting process and lead the content development
Pharmaceutical companies are legally required to disclose of manuscripts. The senior author works closely with
all relevant data from clinical trials to the appropriate co-authors and retains final approval authority for the
regulatory authorities when seeking approval for a new manuscript. Any GSK staff or contractors who contribute
product. to the development of manuscripts for external authors
must be named in the article.
After approval, sponsors have a continuing obligation
to provide regulatory authorities with updated safety Activity in 2005
information from clinical trials. This ensures regulators At the end of 2005 there were 2,125 clinical trial
can accurately assess the safety and effectiveness of new summaries on the GSK Clinical Trial Register
medicines and monitor their safety. Safety and efficacy (http://ctr.gsk.co.uk/welcome.asp). This includes over 98%
information is provided to doctors through prescribing of the clinical trials of our major marketed products which
information which is approved by regulators. have been completed since the merger of GSK or were
completed before the merger and are likely to inform
In addition there is a need to use other ways to
medical judgement. We are continuing to populate the
appropriately communicate the results of our clinical trials
register with clinical trials that relate to other marketed
to healthcare practitioners and others who use or evaluate
medicines and this will be completed during 2006.
the use of our medicines.
323
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Research
continued
Number of publications of GSK clinical trials on the GSK
Clinical Trial Register (cumulative total)
Number of publications of GSK clinical
trials on the GSK Clinical Trial Register
(cumulative total)
Year Publications
2004 143
2005 2,125
2004
33
snoitacilbup
fo
rebmuN
2500
2000
1500
1000
500
0
2005
Our objective is to publish trial results for all new products GSK complies with the corporate policies and procedures
within 10 months of the product reaching the market and that it has established to fulfill our commitment to make
to publish the results of trials completed after a product is information from our clinical research activities available to
approved for marketing within one year of trial completion. the public. In addition we are actively involved in sharing
our views and experiences on clinical trial registration
An independent assessment of documentation processes
through an advisory board process established by the
and procedures used by GSK in populating the Clinical
World Health Organization which is establishing an
Trial Register (http://ctr.gsk.co.uk/welcome.asp) has been
International Clinical Trials Registry Platform
conducted by an external organisation. We will continue
(http://www.who.int/ictrp/en/).
to engage the services of this organisation to ensure that3
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Research
continued
CASE STUDY
Diabetes research at GSK and potent compound that was first tested in human
clinical trials in 1993.
Avandia, for the treatment of type 2 diabetes, is one
of GSK’s top selling medicines. Avandiawas launched With complex diseases such as type 2 diabetes, the
in 1999 but it is the outcome of research that began failure rate in research is high. Despite significant
some 20 years earlier. investment in R&D by the pharmaceutical industry,
no new drugs were introduced for more than 40 years
Type 2 diabetes has two causes – an inability to
before insulin sensitisers, such as Avandia, became
produce enough insulin; and insulin resistance, an
available. Avandiahas now been used by more than
inability to respond to insulin that is available. It causes
seven million people worldwide, helping them to
a rise in blood sugar which can have devastating
control their disease and improve their quality of life.
consequences for the patient including blindness, heart
attacks and strokes. Diabetes research at GSK has not stopped. We are
investing more than £175 million in several large
Beecham, a GSK legacy company, began researching
outcome studies to assess the effect of Avandiaon
type 2 diabetes in the 1970s. At that time there were
the long-term complications of diabetes and to see
two types of oral sugar-lowering drugs available.
whether it can be used to prevent at-risk people
These worked by stimulating the body to produce
from developing the disease. Two new combination
more insulin or by helping the liver to control blood
treatments, Avandametand Avandaryl, have been
sugar levels. But the treatments were not successful
launched that combine Avandia with other diabetes
for everybody. Furthermore, no diabetes treatment
treatments. This makes it easier for patients to
remains effective in one patient forever. As the disease
maintain their treatment regime. GSK has another
progresses, patients must combine a number of
novel diabetes drugs in clinical trials and an ongoing
different drugs.
research programme at our metabolic research centre
Beecham focused its research on treatments that used in North Carolina.
a new mechanism – combating insulin resistance – an
The rapid increase in obesity, a major cause of type 2
area that little was known about. It took about six years
diabetes, and the appearance of the disease in children,
of research before a promising compound was
makes this research more important than ever.
identified. By 1990 the team had developed a novel
34Ethical conduct
1 Introduction
2 Access to medicine
3 Research
4 Ethical conduct Page
Code of Conduct 35
Marketing ethics 36
Marketing codes of practice 37
Consumer advertising 38
Training and awareness 39
Monitoring and compliance 40
5 Employment practices
6 Human rights
7 Environment
8 Community investment
9 Data summary
44
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Ethical conduct
GSK is fully committed to ensuring that our business practices meet high standards of
ethics and legal compliance and that our employees behave with honesty and integrity.
It is important that we get this right. The way we conduct our business affects the
patients and consumers who use our products, the doctors who prescribe our medicines,
the governments that regulate our industry, and our reputation. Our reputation with
these stakeholders is critical to our business. Our reputation also affects our ability to
attract, retain and motivate the best people. Meeting high ethical standards enables us
to maintain the support of these stakeholders and retain our ‘licence to operate’.
This section explains our approach to business and CODE OF CONDUCT
marketing ethics and our performance in 2005. It covers:
Our Employee Guide to Business Conduct sets out the
• GSK’s Code of Conduct and management certification standards of behaviour we expect from employees as well
on business ethics. as the key compliance and ethics policies that guide our
business activities. It requires all employees to act with
• Our approach to marketing ethics, including our
integrity, comply with the law, avoid conflicts of interest
marketing codes of practice and updated policy on
and report any violations of the law or GSK’s policies or
direct-to-consumer advertising.
any unethical behaviour.
• Training and awareness programmes to reinforce the
Guidance is provided, including real-life examples, on
importance of ethical conduct and to ensure that
what constitutes acceptable or unacceptable behaviour.
employees understand what standards of behaviour
GSK employees have access to the guide via the company
are required.
intranet. Our induction training familiarises new
• Monitoring and compliance systems, including the role employees with business conduct standards and provides
of our Corporate Ethics and Compliance department, information on where they can obtain support and
channels for receiving reports of alleged cases of answers to questions.
misconduct and data on the number of employees
Management certification on business ethics
dismissed or disciplined for violating company policies
including our Code of Conduct. Commitment to our Code of Conduct is reinforced by
an annual management certification programme. This
Information on ethical issues in R&D is available in the
requires managers to certify that they comply with the
Research section of this report. This includes our policies
statement below. In 2005 we expanded the programme
governing our relationship with doctors involved in clinical
to include over 12,000 managers worldwide. Eligible
trials (see Conduct of Clinical Trials) and our policy on
managers from all business units worldwide have
disclosure of clinical trial results and writing of articles for
completed the certification. Certification documentation
medical journals (see Clinical Trial Information and Results).
is managed electronically and non-certification is tracked
Information on our relationships with governments is and followed up. Non-certification is typically due to
available in the section on Government and external extended leave of absence, such as maternity leave or
affairs. For our policies on making our products more long-term sick leave.
widely available, see Access to medicines.
More background information on our ethics policies is
available on our website.
354
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Ethical conduct
continued
The full certification statement is reproduced below. In three markets, France, Germany and Belgium the
The links have not been included below, as they are only statement and certification process are slightly different
accessible via the internal intranet. However, the Code of to reflect local legal requirements.
Conduct and The Employee Guide to Business Conduct
Business ethics and our suppliers
documents are available from the ‘Responsibility’ section
In 2005 GSK produced a booklet to help suppliers to
of www.gsk.com.
understand the requirements that they must meet in order
to work with GSK. The booklet outlines the importance
that GSK places on operating to high ethical standards
“I certify that:
and includes reference to the GSK policy, to which GSK
I understand that GSK is committed to the employees are bound, that prohibits the acceptance of
principle of ‘Performance with Integrity’, and in gifts and entertainment. In working with GSK, suppliers
particular, to ensuring that its activities comply are asked to understand and respect this position and as
with all applicable laws. a supplier to GSK, they are asked to adopt and follow the
same high standards within their business and in their
I have received a copy of or have access to the
interactions with GSK.
GSK Code of Conduct (POL-GSK-001) and other
GSK corporate policies through the Corporate
Policy Index page at [link to intranet site] MARKETING ETHICS
I have read and understand The Employee GSK markets its medicines to doctors, hospitals and
Guide to Business Conduct, accessible at [link to governments. In some countries, such as the US and
intranet site] Japan, we also advertise medicines directly to consumers.
I have complied with applicable laws, Our specialist sales representatives meet regularly with
regulations, and GSK corporate and local doctors and pharmacists to inform them about our
policies and procedures. medicines and their approved uses.
All people under my supervision have received We believe that our sales representatives play an
copies of or have access to the GSK Code of important role in providing up-to-date information to
Conduct and other GSK policies and have been doctors on our products and their benefits to patients.
informed of their responsibilities. However, we recognise that the marketing of
pharmaceutical products raises some challenging issues.
I have put in place appropriate measures to
In particular, some people are concerned that marketing
ensure that the people under my supervision
by pharmaceutical companies exerts undue influence on
comply with the laws, regulations, and GSK
doctors, that sales representatives do not always give
corporate and local policies and procedures
doctors full information about potential side effects, or
while working on behalf of GSK.
that promotion for unapproved uses may be common
I understand my responsibility to promptly despite increased compliance training and monitoring
report any actual or suspected violations of the activity and oversight by governments.
law, regulations, or GSK corporate and local
The sale and promotion of pharmaceutical products is
policies and procedures.
highly regulated by governments and medical agencies.
I have reported all actual or potential Several governments are extending legislation in this area.
compliance issues of which I am aware For instance, in the US, there are 39 proposed laws
concerning legal requirements or company pending in 20 state legislatures that could require
policies. pharmaceutical companies to restrict or report on
interactions with doctors.
Exceptions (list any compliance issues that should
have been reported previously but were not):” All GSK employees must also comply with our Marketing
Codes of Practice and our policies governing consumer
advertising. These codes require that marketing be based
on valid scientific evidence, be consistent with national
prescribing documentation, and comply with the law.
364
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Ethical conduct
continued
During 2005 we have updated and strengthened our • Appropriate hospitality for meetings – no entertainment
policies and procedures. is permitted. Hospitality (such as travel costs or food)
may only be provided for meetings with an educational
Sales and marketing employees receive training to ensure
purpose. The level of hospitality must be appropriate
they have a good understanding of our marketing policies
to the occasion and must only be provided for relevant
and the legal framework governing their sales activities.
healthcare professionals, not spouses, children, office
We also have programmes to monitor compliance,
personnel, or any other guests. Travel costs are not
including in some regions feedback from doctors on our
provided in the US.
sales practices.
Our regional codes are available in more than 30 local
In 2005, GSK was rated third in a survey of French doctors
languages and employees can access them via the
conducted by Insemma Marketing Research Institute that
intranet. All sales and marketing staff receive training
assessed how well 26 pharmaceutical companies comply
on the codes; see Training and Awareness.
with the industry marketing code.
A copy of the GSK European Promotion of Medicines
Doctors are noticing that GSK is taking a leadership
Code of Practice is available in our online report.
stance in the areas of gifts and entertainment in particular.
Reactions vary from “well done GSK for setting a good Progress in 2005
example that others in the industry should follow” (the In 2005, GSK’s president of pharmaceutical operations
majority reaction) to “if you won’t pay for my spouse and his direct reports conducted a review of our regional
to travel, I’ll go with another company who will” (the marketing codes to confirm that GSK’s codes are
minority reaction). In one particular case in the UK comprehensive and consistently applied in all regions.
recently, GSK offered to sponsor a doctor to attend a We identified certain areas for improvement, and will
congress. He asked for GSK to pay for his wife to update the codes in 2006 accordingly. Changes will
accompany him to the congress. The GSK manager include reducing the maximum value of nominal gifts
refused the request, as this is contrary to our marketing to healthcare professionals to $10 (less than £6), and
code of practice. The doctor was sponsored by another prohibiting gifts and entertainment for medical
company to attend the congress. professionals retained as consultants to GSK. We will also
ensure that decisions about grants for medical education,
Marketing codes of practice
and about donations for charitable purposes, are reviewed
Our Pharmaceutical Marketing and Promotional Activity by departments independent of sales and marketing.
policy applies to all employees and agents. It commits us
to promotional practices that are ethical, responsible, We launched a new procedure in Europe on sponsored
principled and patient-centred. It prohibits kickbacks, attendance of doctors at medical conferences. This
bribery or other inducements to doctors. procedure specifies the circumstances under which
sponsorship is appropriate and governs the provision of
This policy is supported by regional marketing practices appropriate travel, meals and accommodation.
codes in Europe, our International region, Japan and the
US. These codes apply the same ethical standards but Compliance with policies and procedures is a formal
reflect differences in market structures, national healthcare performance objective for sales and marketing employees
systems and regulations. They incorporate the principles of in the US. This is evaluated as part of employee
industry codes of practice such as the EFPIA, IFPMA, performance reviews, thus encouraging employees to view
JPMA, and PhRMA marketing codes. compliance as an integral part of their overall performance.
US employees in our pharmaceutical business were
The codes explain our policies on issues such as: appraised against the following objective in 2005:
• Providing full and accurate information – information “Consistently follow company policies and
can only be provided on approved uses for a medicine. procedures, take and complete required compliance
Information must be accurate, balanced, fair, objective, training in a timely manner, and report compliance
unambiguous and up-to-date. issues to manager, Legal or Compliance.”
• Gifts to healthcare professionals – gifts must be given
only occasionally and must be relevant to the practice
of medicine. Gifts cannot be made as an inducement to
prescribe any of our medicines.
374
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Ethical conduct
continued
In addition, managers are evaluated against the following designed to educate consumers about the medicine and
objective: the condition for which it is prescribed. DTC advertising
for pharmaceuticals must be accurate and supported by
“Ensure that supervised employees are trained on
evidence. It must also include information on the risks and
company policies and procedures and have taken
benefits of treatments and other options such as diet and
all required training, and provide oversight and
lifestyle changes. The principles are available at
direction to supervised employees so that they are in
www.phrma.org.
compliance with company policies and procedures.”
GSK was an early supporter of the new principles and
Consumer advertising
we have reviewed and updated our marketing policies to
This section explains our approach to advertising our
incorporate all of the PhRMA Guiding Principles, as well as
prescription medicines in the US and our advertising for
additional requirements, and to ensure compliance with
our consumer healthcare products in other markets.
them. Some new provisions implemented in our updated
Direct-to-consumer advertising DTC policy include:
In the US* we advertise our prescription medicines to
• Elimination of ‘reminder’ advertisements – short
consumers through TV and print advertisements. This is
advertisements that mention the pharmaceutical
known as direct-to-consumer (DTC) advertising. DTC
brand name but not the medical condition it is
advertising is not permitted in most other markets,
designed to treat
although New Zealand, Bangladesh and Korea do allow
• Submission of new television ads to FDA for review
limited DTC advertising.
at least 30 days in advance and at the stage of
Promoting the use of prescription drugs directly to development where audio and visual components
consumers can be controversial. Critics believe that it areavailable.
encourages people to request unnecessary treatment,
• Providing information on other treatment options
adding to the burden on healthcaresystems.
(such as diet and lifestyle changes) for the advertised
We believe that responsible pharmaceutical advertising condition, where such treatment options are referenced
is a useful source of health information for patients. It in the prescribing information for a product.
helps to increase awareness of conditions patients might
• Requiring a reference to PhRMA’s Partnership for
not appreciate or otherwise know about and educates
Prescription Assistance in branded print ads and
patients about treatment options. Patients must still
branded websites – this programme directs patients to
consult with their physicians about their condition, the
members companies’ low income Patient Assistance
appropriateness of a prescription medicine, and obtain
Programs.
his or her consent before receiving such medicines.
In countries such as the US whereDTC advertising is Marketing practices for non-pharmaceutical
common industry practice, we need to ensure that our products
products are also promoted in this way. We advertise our over-the-counter medicines, oral
healthcareproducts, and nutritional products to
In Bangladesh, we run a DTC campaign for our vaccines,
consumers worldwide. Our advertising is governed by
which includes a television commercial and newspaper
national regulations or codes of practice for advertising.
advertisements. This campaign is titled ‘vaccination for all’
Our internal policies and procedures meet or exceed
and has been run over a period of three years. It won the
local laws.
International Commercial Excellence Exchange Award
2003 (an internal GSK award)and has been approved by Advertising of consumer healthcare medicines and
the local regulatory authority. nutritionals is generally subject to less stringent direct-to-
consumer advertising requirements than prescription
In 2005, the US pharmaceutical industry association,
medicines. GSK Consumer Healthcare has global
PhRMA, introduced new Guiding Principles on DTC
advertising guidelines which require that claims in
advertising for prescription medicines. These were
consumer healthcaremedicine advertisements be
launched in January 2006.
consistent with product labelling. In markets that allow
The principles state that companies should spend an comparative advertisements, GSK Consumer Healthcare
appropriate amount of time educating doctors and guidelines require that a comparison of a GSK product to
healthcare professionals about new drugs before acompetitor’sbe supported by adequate data.
consumer advertising begins. Advertising should be
38
*In a previous version of this report we incorrectly stated that we advertise our prescription medicines to consumers in Japan. Advertising of prescription
medicines to consumers is illegal in Japan.
We do not advertise prescription medicines to consumers in Japan, however we do run DTC advertisments to raise awareness of disease among patients
and the general public without mentioning prescription brands4
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Ethical conduct
continued
In the UK, there are concerns that advertising for food training for new sales and marketing employees covers
and drink is contributing to the rise of childhood obesity. our marketing codes of practice. These induction courses
The UK Government’s Health Select Committee has ensure that new employees understand the importance
made recommendations for tackling obesity, including of ethical conduct from day one, know how to deal with
restrictions on advertising to children and the placement dilemmas and where to seek help.
of vending machines in schools.
We provide additional training for employees who will be
GSK Consumer Healthcare has guidelines for advertising working in areas where there are additional regulatory
to children that meet or exceed local laws and codes of requirements such as R&D, manufacturing and sales and
practice. The guidelines on advertising to children prohibit marketing.
drug advertising designed to appeal to, or targeted at,
Sales representatives receive detailed training on the
children below the legally mandated minimum age. For
medicines they promote and the diseases they are
example, in the UK we do not buy advertising space in
designed to treat. Sales employees are given training on
children’s media and we do not supply vending machines
appropriate marketing practices and are required to pass a
to primary schools.
test on our marketing code before starting their sales role.
Sports star sponsorship is important to brands such as
Regular refresher courses are held for all sales and
Lucozade Sport. Our guidelines on sponsorship state that
marketing employees at least annually. For example,
only people who set an appropriate example should be
in some markets, employees look at examples of ethical
used for sponsorship, and they should have an appeal that
dilemmas and issues that they could face in their work
is not solely to children below the age of 13.
and guidance is provided to help them understand
In the US, advertising of over-the-counter medicines must appropriate responses. Employees are encouraged to ask
comply with governmental advertising guidelines. An themselves the following questions before making a
advertiser must have a reasonable basis for making a claim decision:
before publishing it. Comparative advertising of over-the-
• Would I be embarrassed if my friends or family knew
counter medicines is permitted in the US as long as the
what decision I have made?
claims are truthful and not misleading. Consumer
testimonials and celebrity endorsements are permitted as • How would my decision look to a cynic?
long as the statements made reflect the honest opinion • What could the newspaper headline look like?
of the speaker, are true and not deceptive.
• Am I still confident that this is the right decision for
GSK Consumer Healthcare is a member of the GSK?
Consumer Healthcare Products Association (CHPA)
We monitor the success of our training and awareness
which has a voluntary Code of Advertising Practices for
programmes. For example in the US we conduct surveys
Nonprescription Medicines. The guidelines advise against
of GSK sales representatives. In 2005, the survey revealed
practices such as advertising that implies a casual attitude
that:
toward using drugs and suggests an over-the-counter
drug can prevent or cure a serious disease that must be • More than 98% of employees rated efforts to promote
treated by a licensed practitioner. GSK Consumer compliance as effective.
Healthcare advertising is reviewed to ensure it meets
• More than 90% of representatives correctly answered
government and industry standards.
questions on the promotional materials and sample
management policies.
TRAINING AND AWARENESS • Over 175 employees suggested solutions to handle
compliance challenges.
We have training and awareness programmes to make
sure employees understand our policies, comply with the We also conduct a global management survey every two
law and know what standards of behaviour are required. years. The 2004 survey showed that 92% of managers
said they understood how the GSK Code of Conduct
Training starts with an induction course for new
applied to their jobs.
employees in the UK and the US. This covers the GSK
Code of Conduct and other relevant policies. Induction
394
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Ethical conduct
continued
Activity during 2005 MONITORING AND COMPLIANCE
We launched a new half day workshop on “Ethical We recognise that strong policies, codes of practice, and
Decision Making”, which was attended by almost 500 good training do not guarantee that all employees will
senior managers in the US and UK, including staff in meet our standards. Our internal compliance systems are
corporate functions (such as Finance, HR, IT and designed to identify and address breaches of our codes.
Communications). This workshop gave participants
This section covers:
practical tools to help with making ethical decisions, and
highlighted managers’ obligations under the Employee • The role of our Corporate Ethics and Compliance
Guide to Business Conduct and the risks associated with department.
non-compliance.
• Channels for employees to report concerns or
The managers who attended the “Ethical Decision suspected cases of misconduct. The number and type
Making” workshops chose to attend. It was recognised of contacts through these channels in 2005.
that there is a need to involve and engage more managers
• How we address misconduct. The number of employees
throughout GSK on an ongoing basis. So, in 2006 we will
dismissed or disciplined for misconduct in 2005.
launch an additional ethics eLearning and face-to-face
training package for managers. Corporate Ethics & Compliance function
Our Corporate Ethics and Compliance department works
Over 1,000 new sales and marketing staff in the US
with the GSK business units to promote effective risk
received training on compliance policies and more than
management and compliance programmes, identify and
10,000 existing staff received two hours of annual
address compliance issues, and to ensure appropriate
refresher training in 2005. We do not track sales and
oversight and upward reporting for GSK senior
marketing training hours in other countries. Anther
management and the Board. We now have a dedicated,
initiative to improve employee understanding is a yearly
full-time compliance officer in each of our seven major
bulletin launched by the US Pharma Compliance Office
business units – R&D, Manufacturing, Biologicals, Pharma
on the major types of unethical conduct detected and
Europe, International Pharma, Japan Pharma and US
the actions taken.
Pharma, in addition to the corporate compliance officer,
Over 1,200 R&D employees completed the ‘Performing who reports directly to the CEO.
with Integrity’ course during 2005. This course was
Compliance officers are senior managers with direct access
established in 2004, when more than 9,000 R&D
to the leadership teams of GSK functions. They are a
employees completed the course. This includes training
source of expertise for anyone with a question on ethics
on the Code of Conduct, and our policies on Conflicts
or compliance with GSK policies. Compliance officers
of Interest and Acceptance of Gifts and Entertainment
define training needs and communicate the latest
by GSK employees.
developments on new policies and legislation affecting
Objectives for 2006 GSK, as well as deliver training and assess compliance
• Review the ‘Performance with Integrity’ face-to-face issues in their business units. Many markets also appoint
induction training session and make appropriate local compliance champions.
changes for new staff in the UK and the US during In the US we appointed four compliance staff as sales
2006. and marketing compliance advisers. Their role will be
• Launch an additional ethics eLearning and face-to-face to provide feedback on infractions, conduct customised
training package, building on the ‘Ethical Decision training, and recommend process improvements. We have
Making’ workshop for managers. also hired and trained staff for a new compliance data
analysis and reporting group. This group has already
begun to analyse monitoring and investigation data to
highlight suitable areas for focus and follow up for each
business unit in the US.
404
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Ethical conduct
continued
Sales representatives are supervised by sales managers Doctors can raise any concerns or report unethical
who regularly monitor educational events, visits to conduct by GSK sales representatives through our
doctors, and expenses. We also have independent customer response centres, during our market research
monitors to review records in a number of key risk areas in or via industry associations such as PhRMA and the ABPI.
the US. Our internal audit department continues to deploy Staff retrained to deal with concerns about marketing
significant resources to provide regular audits of business practices that might be raised by healthcare professionals,
processes, including auditing our sales and marketing patients or the public. They redirect calls to appropriate
practices globally. As a result of the audit findings the senior management or a compliance officer if necessary.
decision making process for grants and donations is being
Addressing misconduct
updated. In Europe and our International region, these
Our Corporate Ethics and Compliance department
decisions will now be made by the relevant medical
monitors and tracks allegations and suspected cases of
department, instead of commercial staff.
legal, ethical or policy infractions. It also ensures that all
The European code of marketing practice includes a such allegations are appropriately investigated. Disciplinary
quarterly reporting mechanism where the markets confirm action, up to and including dismissal, is taken where
whether any breaches of the code of practice have necessary.
occurred, the severity of any breaches and what actions
In 2005:
have been taken to prevent recurrence. These reports are
reviewed by senior managers. A similar procedure for • 1,126 employees were disciplined for misconduct
monitoring expenses was launched in 2005, which (compared with 954 in 2004).
highlighted some inconsistencies across countries, and
• Of these, 331 were dismissed or agreed to leave the
other areas for improvement. During 2006, the countries
company voluntarily, compared with 256 in 2004.
in our European region will receive more central direction
regarding monitoring of expenses and other relevant • Other disciplinary actions included verbal and written
expenditure. warnings (795 instances) and financial penalties.
Employees staying with the company received re-
Reporting channels
training and increased monitoring.
Employees are encouraged to seek help and to report any
The numbers have increased since 2004. We believe this
concerns or suspected cases of misconduct. They can do
is probably due to better reporting of breaches, as people
this through their line management, a compliance officer,
become more familiar with what should be reported and
or through our confidential Integrity Helplines or offsite
when. It is anticipated that the numbers may continue to
post office box (in the US).
increase during 2006, as detection and reporting
The Helplines and post office box are promoted through mechanisms are further refined.
the Employee Guide to Business Conduct, on the GSK
The 1,126 disciplinary actions included 278 cases of
intranet and during training. The Corporate Ethics and
employees breaching sales and marketing codes. These
Compliance function is promoted as a source of
278 cases resulted in 91 dismissals or separations from
information and advice, as well as a mechanism for
the company. There were also 100 verbal warnings and
reporting concerns.
87 written warnings. These included many small over
In 2005 there were: spends on the allowed limits for hospitality during
scientific meetings.
• 3,644 contacts with the compliance functions, mainly
in the US. This is an increase from 2,593 last year.
• Of these, 77% were from employees seeking advice
or information; 23% were from employees reporting
suspected cases of misconduct.
Outside the US, mechanisms to track this information are
evolving with general trends and issues being visible to
senior management and addressed through action where
necessary.
41Employment practices
1 Introduction
2 Access to medicine
3 Research
4 Ethical conduct
5 Employment practices Page
Employee surveys 42
Diversity 43
Employee development and talent
management 45
Internal communication 46
Health and safety 47
How we manage health and safety 47
Injury and illness rates and causes 49
Serious incidents and fatalities 61
Employee health 61
Safety programmes 63
6 Human rights
7 Environment
8 Community investment
9 Data summary
55
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Employment practices
GSK employs over 100,000 people in 119 countries.
Our goal to be the best place for the best people to do their best work is central to
our business strategy and key to business success. We aim to create a positive working
environment, offer competitive reward packages that emphasise performance, provide
opportunities for training and advancement, and listen and respond to employee
feedback. (See our Annual Report for more details on our business strategy).
We expect employees to meet high standards in the way We conduct a Global Leadership Survey every two years.
they carry out their work for GSK. The GSK Spirit defines Over 10,000 managers took part in the last survey in
our culture and the principles we expect employees to 2004. Results showed a significant improvement on 29
work by. These are: of 31 items compared with 2002 results. For details of the
results see our 2004 Corporate Responsibility Report. The
• Performance with integrity
survey findings are reviewed by GSK’s Corporate Executive
• Entrepreneurial spirit Team and our business units have implemented action
• Focus on innovation plans to deliver improvements in key areas. For example,
GMS have extended our core Leadership Edge programme
• A sense of urgency
to over 1000 leaders and have increased focus on staff
• Passion for achievement development, including through mentoring and coaching.
R&D have implemented a quarterly “pulse” employee
Regular performance appraisals assess whether employees
survey to understand better where there are opportunities
have upheld these principles and the requirements of our
to enhance employee engagement and satisfaction. They
Code of Conduct in their work (see Ethical Conduct for
have also launched the “Focus on the Patient” initiative
more on our Code). The results affect bonuses and career
to build on our strength of putting the patient first in
progression.
our plans and decision making.
This section explains our approach and performance in
Activity in 2005
2005. It covers:
We conduct a range of interim employee surveys to gauge
• our regular employee surveys
satisfaction, motivation and engagement between
• our programmes to recruit and retain a diverse Leadership Surveys.
workforce;
Our annual US Inclusion and Resilience Poll was sent
• employee development, performance appraisals and to 1,000 US employees in 2005. The survey gathers
talent management; feedback on work-life and resilience issues and how we
are progressing towards our diversity vision. The scores for
• how we communicate with employees and get their
diversity were all higher than 2002. Other results included:
feedback;
• our health, safety and wellbeing programmes.
% favourable
Question 2002 2004 2005
EMPLOYEE SURVEYS
How would you rate your overall 64 72 75
The sustainability of our business rests on factors that are
satisfaction with GSK at the
difficult to measure such as the quality of our leadership,
present time?
our culture and our ability to develop talented people.
Regular employee surveys help us to monitor the evolution I feel valued as an employee of GSK. 51 63 68
of GSK’s culture and overall employee satisfaction. The
My manager enables flexible and 66 70 76
results are used to assess the effectiveness of our people
innovative solutions for managing
management practices and identify areas for
work and personal life.
improvement.
My work environment enables me 57 61 60
to maintain a healthy lifestyle.
425
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Employment practices
continued
DIVERSITY Gender diversity (worldwide)
GSK is committed to employing a diverse workforce in an
Women in Management % of positions held
environment where all employees are treated with respect
Grades by women
and dignity.
2003 2004 2005
Diversity benefits our business. A workforce with
diverse backgrounds, cultures and outlooks helps us to A&B Bands* 20 19 21
understand the needs of different patients and customers.
C01 - C03** 31 33 33
Only by delivering genuine equality of opportunity can we
be sure that we have the best people in the right jobs C04 - C05*** 37 38 38
doing their best work for GSK.
Total for all management grades 34 35 35
We have a range of initiatives to ensure we meet our
* Corporate Executive Team, Senior Vice Presidents, Vice Presidents
diversity commitments. We also monitor and report data
** Director Level
on gender diversity by management grade worldwide and
*** Manager Level
on ethnicity in the UK and US. For more background
information see our website. Women remain under-represented in senior grades. We
will continue to focus on ways of ensuring women have
Activity and performance in 2005
genuine equality of opportunity in GSK.
Our annual US Inclusion and Resilience Poll includes
We hold a Women in Science event in the UK each year,
questions on diversity. These were all rated higher in 2005
enabling female science graduates to give feedback on
than in 2002:
how GSK could attract more women scientists. A similar
• 56% of respondents agreed that senior management event was launched in the US in May 2005, attended by
shows by its actions that creating an inclusive over 100 female and male employees. The focus was on
environment is a top priority at GSK (compared with development of women scientists in GSK.
50% in 2004 and 44% in 2002)
• 77% thought their workgroup has a climate in which
diverse perspectives are valued (compared with 65% in
2004 and 67% in 2002);
• 77% thought their manager demonstrates the ability to
manage a diverse workgroup (compared with 66% in
2004 and 68% in 2002).
GSK received a 100% score for corporate equality
from the US Human Rights Campaign Foundation that
measures companies’ treatment of gay, lesbian, bisexual
and transgender employees, consumers and investors.
Companies scoring 100 percent are included in the
organisations’ “Best Places to Work for GLBT Equality” list.
435
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Employment practices
continued
Ethnic diversity
People of color
19.6%
Employees %
People of color in the US employee population 19.6%
Ethnic minorities
14.9%
Employees %
UK employees from ethnic minorities 14.9%
445
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Employment practices
continued
In the US, people of colour made up 19.6% of our EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT AND TALENT
workforce, compared with 19.5% in 2004. In the UK, MANAGEMENT
ethnic minorities (as defined by the UK Commission for
GSK invests in training and development to enable
Racial Equality) accounted for 14.9% of employees,
employees to perform to the best of their ability and to
compared with 14.8% in 2004. In our 2004 CR Report
develop their careers. Our talent management processes
we wrongly reported the number of ethnic minority
help us identify and develop leadership candidates.
employees as 19.8%. This was due to an error in our data
collection system which we have now corrected. Training
We provide job-related training courses for all employees
Multi-Cultural Marketing and Diversity Awards
and leadership training for managers. Employees can enrol
Our annual Multi-Cultural Marketing and Diversity Awards
in training programmes through our myLearning intranet
recognise staff who have found creative ways to reach a
site in the UK and US. During 2005, 4,886 employees
wider audience of employees, customers and
attended 368 development programmes in these
communities. Awards are given in several categories
countries. Similar opportunities exist for employees
including one for Employee Attraction, Development and
worldwide but data are not currently collected on the
Retention. This year’s winners included:
take-up of programmes.
• The UK R&D Residential Chemistry Training Experience,
In 2005, 97 people attended Leadership Edge, our global
designed to increase the diversity of candidates
programme for senior managers, and 108 attended
attracted into chemistry roles. Final year undergraduates
Leadership@GSK, the programme for middle managers.
spent a week with GSK on the programme.
We ran five Inspirational Leadership Workshops attended
Applications were particularly sought from ethnic
by 72 executives and senior leaders, with significant
minority students from non-traditional universities for
influence over large numbers of staff. These focus on the
GSK recruits. The 20 participants received coaching on
senior leadership role of inspiring and motivating people
technical, personal and professional subjects and
to high performance to meet business challenges. A
interacted with GSK employees at all levels.
further 79 employees attended our foundation
• The Niquitinteam, Birmingham, UK, who raised programme for new managers, Management@GSK. This
awareness of smoking cessation among ethnic programme is designed to help managers improve the
populations who have higher than average smoking performance of their staff and to increase their insight into
rates. differing work styles, strengths and motivation.
• The US Consumer Healthcare Hispanic Employee Development
Network who worked with a number of GSK brands to
Regular performance appraisals reward strong
help them understand and improve their appeal to the
performance and help employees set objectives and
Hispanic community. This included our Sensodyne
identify the training they need. More than two-thirds of
brand, which with the network’s input, increased sales
GSK employees receive an annual performance appraisal
by 22.1% in the Hispanic community, compared with
through our Performance and Development Planning
the general market increase of 7.2%.
(PDP) programme.
Employee networks
PDP includes an assessment of how well employees have
Our employee networks include programmes for Asian,
implemented the GSK Spirit - the principles we use to
African American, Hispanic and gay and lesbian employees.
define our culture. It can have a significant impact on
They provide a forum for employees with similar
bonus payments, potentially reducing them to zero if an
backgrounds to meet and discuss issues of shared concern.
employee is found not to have followed the Spirit, and
“I set up the Gay and Lesbian Staff Network UK for a very can also affect future career development.
simple reason: to enable positive inclusion of lesbian, gay,
Talent management
bi and transsexual staff in the GSK culture. Team work is
We identify the highest performing employees in each
an essential requirement of the modern pharmaceutical
business and function through our annual talent
industry. Exclusion on grounds of sexuality or sexual
management cycle. Talented individuals take part in our
orientation is an obstacle to effective team work and
leadership programmes and are exposed to top
personal development.”
management through programmes such as the Chief
Chair and Founder, GSK R&D UK GLSN
Executive Forum.
455
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Employment practices
continued
A pool of potential successors is identified for all Vice- • We consult employees on changes that affect them and
President and senior management positions. These are discuss business developments through our Works
reviewed annually by the appointments sub-committee of Councils and European Employee Forum. We have
the Board. similar forums in other countries where this is national
practice. In 2005 the European Employee Forum
INTERNAL COMMUNICATION discussed topics including the transformation and
optimisation programme for Europe IT, proposals for
Good internal communication is important in achieving
change to GSK’s European Distribution and Supply
our business objectives as well as creating an open and
Chain and the company’s approach to stress in the
inclusive work environment. We have a range of
workplace. A new UK Information and Consultation
communications channels to keep employees up to date
Forum will be established during 2006 to address
with company news and enable them to give feedback.
strategic level business developments and company
These include:
proposals for change in areas such as employment
• myGSK, our global intranet site, provides news and policy and pensions.
updates and a Q&A section where employees can put
• 43 ‘townhall’ sessions for employees at all levels of the
questions directly to the CEO and other senior
company were hosted by senior management.
executives. In 2005, JP Garnier, GSK’s Chief Executive
Employees have the opportunity to discuss the progress
answered 364 questions. Behind the News, a section
of the business, raise questions and give feedback.
of the GSK intranet, gives the company’s position on
important issues linked to press stories about GSK. We also keep employees informed about corporate
myGSK was updated in 2005 to ensure that all responsibility (CR). During 2005, 55,000 copies of our CR
employees can access news and policies. Overview brochure were distributed to employees directly
and through Spirit magazine. An online CR survey was
• Web-broadcasts from GSK senior management,
sent to 980 randomly selected GSK employees to assess
including 18 from executive team members, for
awareness of our approach to CR and CR reporting, see
employees at our major sites. In February, GSK’s CEO,
Stakeholder Feedback.
Chairman and head of R&D hosted a global broadcast
viewed by 30,000 employees at 86 sites. More than We are developing an internal communication initiative on
1,000 employees completed a follow-up survey, with ethical leadership and the role of every employee in
92% agreeing that the broadcast had increased their protecting and enhancing GSK’s reputation. It will be
understanding of GSK’s priorities for 2005 and beyond. launched in 2006 and will include an e-learning module,
A second broadcast in December celebrated ‘The year guidance for managers on facilitating discussions on GSK’s
of the vaccine’, was shown in over 140 venues and ethics policies with their team and new material on
recognised employees that have made outstanding myGSK.
contributions to the company.
We track the effectiveness of communications through
• Spirit, our internal magazine, reaches around 50,000 questionnaires and employee surveys. We monitor the
employees throughout the company four times a year. questions employees put to senior managers through the
Many sites also produce local newsletters. Q&A pages on myGSK to ensure we pick up potential
• Confidential feedback mechanisms enable employees to areas of concern. We also track readership of news stories
raise concerns. These include our integrity helpline. See on myGSK to help improve the relevance and interest of
Ethical conduct. the content.
• Employee surveys are carried out regularly throughout
the organisation, see Employee surveys. We will
conduct our next biannual Leadership Survey in 2006.
465
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Employment practices
continued
HEALTH AND SAFETY consumer research and development sites, as well as all
seven distribution centres, all eight major office locations
The health and safety of employees and contractors
and 56 of approximately 65 smaller offices and sales
is an absolute priority for GSK. We have programmes
locations. We include available data for sites that were in
to systematically assess the risks associated with our
operation for all or part of the year. Notes attached to the
operations. We monitor performance and the causes of
charts explain the scope and data collection process for
incidents. We aim to assess what can be learned and take
each parameter in more detail. We also include data (in
action to protect employees and others in the workplace.
the injuries and illness page) for a number of suppliers
We need to improve implementation at some sites.
who provided information.
Our aim is to eliminate all work-related injuries and
Verification
illnesses (I&I). Our main measure is the number of cases
resulting in time off work (lost-time cases) and our target The environment, health and safety sections
over the last 5 years has been to reduce the number per of this report are externally verified by ERM
100,000 hours worked by 15% every year. We achieved (Environmental Resources Management).
the target on average for the first two years but the rate Web pages to which the verification applies
has remained almost constant since 2003, so we did not are indicated by this symbol. ERM’s verification
meet the five-year target. statement is on page 70.
We will be setting a new I&I target for 2006-2010 as part How we Manage Health and Safety
of the Plan for Excellence 2006-2015, and will set targets We manage health and safety through an integrated
for reportable I&I – cases that GSK defines as more serious environment, health and safety (EHS) management
than first aid. Some of these may also be reported under system. The system incorporates our EHS and Employee
government regulations in some countries. Safety theory Health Policies, EHS Vision and 64 Global EHS Standards.
suggests that addressing reportable I&I will help to Our EHS Plan for Excellence sets out our strategy for
eliminate risks and hazards, which should lead to fewer improving EHS performance up to 2010 and is currently
reportable cases as well as lost-time I&I cases. being renewed to extend to 2015.
About the Health and Safety Section of Our Corporate Environment, Health and Safety (CEHS)
This Report and Employee Health Management (EHM) teams help
This section contains information about how we manage coordinate our health and safety programmes.
health and safety as part of overall EHS management
In these pages we summarise activities during 2005 that
and describes our programmes. It reports injury and illness
relate specifically to health and safety. See the EHS
rates highlights serious incidents and fatalities, and covers
Management pages for information on how we manage
health and safety audits of GSK operations.
environmental and broader EHS issues.
Our programmes cover a wide range of H&S aspects, from
Training and awareness
providing safety training for sales employees, who tend to
EHS training is targeted to match employee
have the highest number of fatalities, to working with all
responsibilities. Employees with responsibility for H&S
employees to improve their general health.
issues receive regular training about initiatives in areas
This is the 6th year that we have reported on our health such as ergonomics, chemical exposures and driver safety.
and safety performance. The legacy companies (Glaxo This is handled through regional meetings of H&S staff.
Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham) individually published They in turn train employees in manufacturing, research,
EHS reports for a number of years prior to the formation sales and other divisions. CEHS and EHM arrange annual
of GSK in 2000. Copies of these reports are available on meetings to determine training issues and provide
the Corporate Register website training materials.
[www.corporateregister.com].
We also want employees to be aware of health
Scope of Data and safety in their personal lives. Employee bulletins,
The health and safety data covers the calendar year 2005. announcements on the myEHS website, the CEO's EHS
It is collected from all of our 81 pharmaceutical and Excellence awards programme and Health and Safety
consumer manufacturing sites, seven of eight biologicals Week activities aim to raise employee awareness of issues
manufacturing sites, and all 20 pharmaceutical and such as wearing seat belts, being careful with electricity
and using ladders appropriately.
475
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Employment practices
continued
We conduct a Health and Safety Week every October We also introduced or continued specific work in the
(to coincide with the European Health and Safety week following areas in 2005 to achieve improvements:
and Fire Safety Awareness Month in the United States).
• Chemical Agents– targets set within manufacturing
Information kits are sent to all sites to help them develop
for promoting more accurate exposure determinations
ideas and plan activities.
and ensuring adequacy of respiratory protective
In 2005, over 17,500 employees from 70 sites in 32 equipment at unit operations; discussions and
countries took part in the Health and Safety Week. presentations during Network Meetings
Activities included sports days, safe driving education,
• Resilience– rollout of the tool for assessing team
ergonomics training, awareness-raising on noise and
resilience, training during EHS Network Meetings
safeguarding hearing, healthy eating and lifestyles, and
family participation events. • Ergonomics– training in ergonomic risk assessment
during Network Meetings as well as regional training
Health and Safety Feedback From our EHS Audits
• Risk assessment– the Guideline was revised and
We aim to conduct EHS audits at each operational site at
aligned with the risk assessment requirement in the
least once every four years. We carry out more frequent
Quality group
visits at selected sites, depending on an assessment of risk
and the issues raised by previous audits. • Self audit– training and workshop on self-auditing
conducted at EHS Network Meetings
At the end of 2005 we assessed the performance of
all facilities (except small commercial sites) using self- • Management System elements– rollout of the
assessment and internal audit. (We audited 33 sites). Management System Toolkit as described below
The average score was 77%, but 3 sites achieving a score All sites are required to develop plans to address any
below 50%, which we regard as unacceptable. While the weaknesses and potential improvements identified
average score exceeds our target of 75% we will aim to in the audit. Auditors monitor sites’ progress in
correct unacceptable performance and continue to pursue implementing the plans. Auditors are trained and their
further improvements to achieve best practice. findings compared to ensure consistency. In 2005 we
continued to refine the EHS audit process and scoring
Our audits identified several priority areas:
system based on experience and feedback. We have also
• Chemical exposure risks installed EHS auditing software on our intranet to help
• Chemical risk assessment and control sites and auditors track progress.
• Managing resilience and mental well-being OHSAS 18001 Certification
In 2005, two additional sites achieved certification to the
• Ergonomic risk assessment and control
international health and safety standard OHSAS 18001.
• Scope and adequacy of workplace risk assessments This brings the total number of manufacturing sites
• Self-auditing of health and safety programmes certified to 16 out of 89 pharmaceutical, consumer and
vaccine manufacturing sites, with one additional site that
• Management systems implementation
certified only the utilities area. The certified sites are in
We aim to drive improvements in poorly-performing areas China, Egypt, France, India, Kenya, Mexico, Poland, Saudi
through actively tracking audit findings and identifying Arabia, Turkey and the UK. See audits and certification for
improvements with follow-up audits. For sites scoring less information on certification to the environmental
than 50%, we also provide increased support from the management standard ISO14001.
audit team, including follow-up visits to ensure progress,
and discussions with senior business management about
increased site resources. Many sites require several years
to put adequate systems and programmes in place in
these areas.
485
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Employment practices
continued
Excellence Awards drums of solvent per year. This has reduced the risk of
The Chief Executive Officer’s Environment, Health and solvent being spilled as well as reducing cleaning and
Safety (EHS) Excellence Awards recognise and reward disposal requirements for waste drums and pallets.
innovation by GSK sites. These were the winning entries No musculoskeletal injuries were reported nor were there
in the EHS Initiative health & safety category in 2005: any incidents involving chemical burns or solvent splashes
from the time the metering system was introduced until
First Place:Barnard Castle, UK for “Proven Capability for
the award was given.
the ‘Shirt Sleeve’ Working Environment”
See CEO’s EHS Excellence Award on the website for more
The site has moved toward controlling operator exposure
about the awards programme and winners from previous
to highly potent compounds by using containment for
years.
routine tasks, rather than using respiratory or protective
equipment to guard against exposure. EHS considerations Injury and Illness Rates and Causes
are integrated into the site’s business model for Our main measure of injury and illness is the number of
introducing new products, which has allowed incidents which result in one or more days away from
containment to be integrated into the design for work (lost time). We express this as a rate per 100,000
manufacture. hours worked.
Second Place:Wavre, Belgium for “SOBANE” an Our target was to reduce this lost-time rate by 15% each
Innovative Approach to Safety” year to the end of 2005. In fact this rate has not improved
since 2003, which suggests that we have reached a
Wavre introduced a new approach to safety management
plateau in the effectiveness of our prevention
in 2005 that has significantly reduced the number of
programmes.
injuries. It is one of three GSK Biologicals sites in Belgium
involved in the research, development and production of In 2006 we will renew efforts to improve the effectiveness
vaccines. of these programmes, but will also focus on reportable
injuries and illnesses that do not result in time off work.
The site has a specially-designed building where more
(Reportable incidents are more serious than first aid, even
than 100 employees work filling vials and syringes with
though they do not result in a day off work.) Safety
vaccines. During 2003 there were seven lost-time injuries
experts believe that addressing the causes of these less
in the building and in the first nine weeks of 2004 there
serious injuries will result in improvements in both
were five accidents resulting in disability, with the type
categories.
of injuries sustained getting significantly worse. The EHS
department responded by introducing a new safety We also measure the number of days lost from injuries
management methodology known as ‘Sobane’. and illnesses. This provides an indication of the severity of
the incidents, although it is only a rough guide. For
The Sobane method involves the active participation of
example, an illness could lead to permanent hearing loss
staff in screening for potential safety risks and finding
or other disability without resulting in significant lost time.
solutions. Every member of staff becomes a member of a
team with an active safety role. The main data covers GSK employees and contract
workers who we directly supervise. Separately, we report
The method was introduced in May 2004 and has resulted
data for contractors who work on GSK sites but supervise
in 96% of potential safety risks being solved by staff.
their own staff. (This data is not covered by the ERM
Between May 2004 and May 2005 there were no lost-
verification).
time injuries and more than 400 days passed without an
accident resulting in disability. Causes of Injuries and Illnesses
Injuries with and without lost time arise mainly from slips,
The method has since been expanded to all GSK Biological
trips or falls, over-exertions or strains and motor vehicle
sites in Belgium and we plan to introduce it to all GSK
accidents.
Biological sites around the world.
Lost-time illness stems mainly from mental ill-health and
Third Place:Cork, Ireland for “Bulk Solvent Metering in a
musculoskeletal problems (primarily repetitive strain injury).
Research and Development Pilot Plant”
Musculoskeletal illness is the main cause of reportable
The introduction of bulk solvent metering at the Cork illness which does not lead to days off work, accounting
pilot plant has eliminated the need for handling of 2,018 for almost a third of the total.
495
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Employment practices
continued
Mental ill-health In 2005, approximately 17% of illnesses resulted in
Cases of work-related mental ill health are excluded from permanent disabilities, such as noise-induced hearing
the overall illness rate. This is because the consistency of loss, sensitisation to chemicals and some musculoskeletal
reporting such cases is less robust than other occupational illnesses.
illnesses and there are variations in the way these illnesses
GSK's injury and illness performance placed us in the third
are defined under local legislation which affects reporting.
quartile of a benchmark industry group in 2004.
We are working to address these inconsistencies and aim
to include these cases in the future. In 2005, the mental ill Causes of injuries and illnesses
health rate (involving lost time) was 0.01 per 100,000 The main causes of injuries were motor vehicle accidents,
hours worked. Mental ill-health was the second most slips, trips and falls. Illnesses leading to lost time were
significant cause of work-related sickness absence, mainly musculoskeletal or concerned with mental ill-
accounting for 41% (1026 days) of the total. health. Chemical-related dermatitis following exposure to
chemicals at work caused a significant number of illnesses
For information on programmes to reduce illness and
which did not lead to lost time.
injury, see Health Programmes and Safety Programmes.
Our record in 2005
2005 Highlights
Workplace injury and illness incidents
At 77 sites in 30 countries, there were no lost time injuries
or illnesses during the year. In addition: GSK employees Contractors*
• one site in India achieved 5 million hours worked Injuries Illnesses
without a lost time injury or illness; Incidents leading to 547 50 100
• one site in Singapore achieved 4 million hours worked lost time
without a lost time injury or illness;
– musculoskeletal 90 30
• six sites in Canada, China, India and Pakistan achieved (included above)
2 million hours worked without a lost time injury or
– mental illness 27
illness;
(not included above)
• fourteen sites in China, France, India, Mexico, Pakistan,
Days lost
Philippines, South Africa, UK, and the US achieved
(excluding mental illness) 11,080 1,492 1,551
1 million hours worked without a lost time injury
or illness. Reportable incidents 437 261 276
Performance (not leading to lost
time)
The table summarises our experience in 2005, while the
charts illustrate trends. – musculoskeletal 73 80
(included above)
In 2005 we recorded 984 injuries and 344 illnesses,
compared to 949 and 406 respectively in 2004. – mental illness 6
Employees lost working days in 624 of these incidents (not included above)
(580 in 2004). Comparing our record with the expected
relationship between incidents that result in lost time and *contractor data is not included in the verification by ERM
those which don’t suggests that we undercount the real
number of injuries and illnesses that do not result in lost
time. We are working to improve our reporting of these
injuries and illnesses.
505
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Employment practices
continued
Lost time injury and illness rate
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.1
Injury
Illness
0.0
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005
Lost time injury and illness rate
Year Illness Injury Total
2001 0.04 0.39 0.43
2002 0.03 0.31 0.34
2003 0.02 0.28 0.30
2004 0.03 0.27 0.30
2005 0.03 0.28 0.30
51
)dekrow
sruoh
000,001
rep(5
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Employment practices
continued
Reportable injury and illness without lost time rate
0.8
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.1
Injury
Illness
0.0
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005
52
)dekrow
sruoh
000,001
rep(
Reportable injury and illness without lost time rate
Year Illness Injury Total
2001 0.15 0.56 0.71
2002 0.17 0.47 0.63
2003 0.25 0.39 0.64
2004 0.18 0.22 0.40
2005 0.13 0.22 0.355
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Employment practices
continued
Lost time injury and illness by business
1.2
1.0
0.8
0.6
0.4
0.2
0.0
Primary
as nu dp p al ny tibiotics
ew
product
g
la on bd
a l
supply
egional
Pharma supply
umer
Healthcare supply Biologicals Researc Dh ea ven ld opment Commercial Other
N R s
n
o
C
Lost time injury and illness by business
I&I rate
Primary supply and antibiotics 0.17
New product and global supply 0.34
Regional Pharma supply 0.17
Consumer Healthcare supply 0.32
Biologicals 0.97
Research and Development 0.17
Commercial 0.33
Other 1.38
53
)dekrow
sruoh
000,001
rep(5
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Employment practices
continued
Reportable injury and illness without lost time by business
1.2
1.0
0.8
0.6
0.4
0.2
0.0
Primary
as nu dp p al ny tibiotics
ew
product
g
la on bd
a l
supply
egional
Pharma supply
umer
Healthcare supply Biologicals Researc Dh ea ven ld opment Commercial Other
N R s
n
o
C
Reportable injury and illness without
lost time by business
I&I rate
Primary supply and antibiotics 1.06
New product and global supply 0.38
Regional Pharma supply 0.30
Consumer Healthcare supply 0.57
Biologicals 0.58
Research and Development 0.39
Commercial 0.17
Other 0.37
54
)dekrow
sruoh
000,001
rep(5
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Employment practices
continued
Calendar days lost rate
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
Injury
Illness
0
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005
Calendar days lost rate
Year Illness Injury Total
2001 0.07 8.61 8.68
2002 1.16 7.02 8.18
2003 0.68 6.14 6.82
2004 0.74 6.53 7.27
2005 0.75 5.58 6.34
55
)dekrow
sruoh
000,001
rep(5
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Employment practices
continued
Categories of lost time injury
5% Other
5% Contact with sharp objects
7% Caught in/on/between
32% Slips/trips/falls
9% Striking against/struck by
16% Overexertions/strains
25% Motor vehicle accidents
Slips/trips/falls 174
Motor vehicle accidents 137
Overexertions/strains 90
Striking against/struck by 51
Caught in/on/between 37
Contact with sharp objects 30
Burns-thermal/chemical 17
Foreign bodies/objects 6
Other 3
Workplace violence 1
Electrical/fire/explosion 1
Animal/insect 0
Total 547
565
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Employment practices
continued
Categories of lost time illness
12% Other
14% Infection
39% Musculoskeletal
35% Mental health
Musculoskeletal 30
Mental health 27
Infection 11
Other 5
Non-allergic respiratory 2
Allergic respiratory 2
Non-allergic dermal 0
Systemic 0
Allergic dermal 0
Physical 0
Cancer 0
Reproductive 0
Total 77
575
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Employment practices
continued
Categories of reportable injury without lost time
6% Other
17% Overexertions/strains
8% Burns-thermal/chemical
9% Caught in/on/between
17% Slips/trips/falls
14% Motor vehicle accidents
15% Striking against/struck by
14% Contact with sharp objects
Overexertions/strains 73
Slips/trips/falls 75
Striking against/struck by 66
Contact with sharp objects 62
Motor vehicle accidents 59
Caught in/on/between 40
Burns-thermal/chemical 37
Animal/insect 14
Foreign bodies/objects 8
Other 2
Electrical/fire/explosion 1
Workplace violence 0
Total 437
585
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Employment practices
continued
Categories of reportable illness without lost time
2% Other
2% Mental health
3% Allergic respiratory
3% Infection
4% Non-allergic respiratory
30% Musculoskeletal
6% Allergic dermal
25% Physical
25% Non-allergic dermal
Musculoskeletal 80
Non-allergic dermal 68
Physical 68
Allergic dermal 15
Non-allergic respiratory 11
Infection 8
Allergic respiratory 7
Mental health 6
Other 2
Systemic 2
Cancer 0
Reproductive 0
Total 267
595
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Employment practices
continued
Summary tables Lost Time Injury and Illness
There were 187 lost time injuries and 16 lost time
Injuries and Illnesses with lost time – rate per 100,000
illnesses, a rate of 0.62 lost time injuries and illnesses per
Year Injury Illness 100,000 hours worked.
2001 0.39 0.04 Injury and Illness Without Lost Time
2002 0.31 0.03 There were 641 injuries without lost time and 75 illnesses
without lost time, 2.18 injuries and illnesses without lost
2003 0.28 0.02
time per 100,000 hours worked.
2004 0.27 0.03
Calendar Days Lost from Injury and Illness
2005 0.28 0.03 There were 2,668 lost days from injuries and 940 days lost
from illnesses, 11.03 calendar days lost per 100,000 hours
worked.
Injuries and Illnesses without lost time – rate per 100,000
Year Injury Illness Notes to charts
2001 0.56 0.15 The health and safety data cover both our employees
and contract workers who are directly supervised by
2002 0.47 0.17
GSK employees.
2003 0.39 0.25
All injury and illness rates are per 100,000 hours
2004 0.22 0.18 worked.
2005 0.22 0.13 Lost time injuries and illnesses are work-related injuries
and illnesses that are serious enough to result in one
or more days away from work.
Calendar days lost – rate per 100,000
Lost calendar days are the calendar days that
Year Injury Illness employees could not work because of work-related
2001 8.61 0.07 injuries and illnesses. This helps to provide a measure
of the severity of injuries and illnesses.
2002 7.02 1.16
Reportable injuries and illnesses without lost time are
2003 6.14 0.68
reported incidents that did not result in time away from
2004 6.53 0.74 work (lost time). They are more serious than first aid
but generally less serious than lost time.
2005 5.58 0.75
We do not include cases of mental ill health in our
lost time or reportable illness rates. This is because of
Supplier Health and Safety Performance variations in the way mental ill-health is defined and
reported across sites globally, which we are working
In 2005 we requested information from 39 suppliers
to address.
(includes both contract manufacturers and key suppliers),
23 of which provided data. Some of these had not
provided data in 2004 so we do not have comparative
figures. In 2005, these 23 suppliers reported a total of
32.7 million work hours.
605
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Employment practices
continued
Serious Incidents and Fatalities Employee Health
We deeply regret that one employee died in a work- A workplace culture that supports a healthy and resilient
related driving incident in Egypt, and two members of workforce drives positive business performance. Protecting
the public were killed during 2005 in driving accidents and promoting the wellbeing of our employees increases
involving GSK employees. employee productivity and attendance, reduces health
care and health insurance costs and supports us in our
We are working to reduce traffic related accidents through
goal to be an employee of choice. This is aligned with
our driver safety programme (see safety programmes).
GSK’s mission of improving quality of life.
We have seen a reduction in the number of work-related
In the sections below, we focus on the steps we have
fatalities in the last few years. This is consistent with the
taken to improve ergonomics, resilience (managing
targets for improving health and safety performance set
pressures and stress) and attendance. We also provide
out in the Plan for Excellence. Contractor fatalities have
information on our HIV initiatives and planning process
remained largely constant over the same period.
for a potential worldwide influenza pandemic.
Five year trend in employee fatalities:
Health Programmes
Fatalities Our health programmes enable employees and their
families to benefit from better health and enhanced
2001 5
quality of life, while the business gains from increased
2002 3 employee commitment and productivity and from
reductions in the financial impact of ill-health.
2003 5
We have a range of programmes to support employee
2004 2
wellbeing including on-site health and fitness centres,
2005 1 flexible working arrangements, and family support
services. Healthcare benefits focus on prevention and
We also report serious incidents ie incidents that result access to innovative and proven treatments. For example,
in permanent disability or those that are reported to in the US employees receive free immunizations, cancer
regulatory authorities. In 2005, accidents involving screening, help with smoking cessation and regular check
machinery resulted in three employees (at sites in South ups. We assist employees suffering from chronic diseases
Africa, the US and Puerto Rico) suffering finger with their medical plans and provide support to help them
amputations. One contract temporary worker at a site continue with treatments.
in the US had to have his lower leg amputated as a result
We have developed a scorecard to measure and track our
of a forklift incident. Twenty two employees had to be
progress in improving employee health and adding value
evacuated from a site in France following the accidental
to the business. The scorecard contains quantitative
release of a hazardous chemical. Nine needed medical
measures including ill-health absence rates. We will report
treatment, eight of whom were hospitalised for the night.
our performance against these measures and targets in
One sales employee in the US was involved in a multi
2006.
vehicle road accident that resulted in severe injury and
hospitalisation. An employee in the UK suffered burns to In 2005 we held five workshops globally with Environment
18% of his body as a result of burst pipework releasing Health & Safety and Human Resources to share
boiling water and steam. information and best practice. Our Employee Health
Management Department supports sites across GSK in
We investigate the circumstances of all fatalities and other
implementing our Employee Health Policy and achieving
serious incidents and assess what can be learned to
consistent standards. . We carry out internal audits to
reduce the risks. We also issue global alerts (posted on our
monitor site performance and oversee improvement plans.
intranet site) to communicate information that could help
prevent similar incidents at other sites. Ergonomics
Musculoskeletal illness and injury is one of the leading
causes of ill health resulting in time away from work. In
2004 we appointed a full-time professional ergonomist to
lead the development of our ergonomics strategy. We
have set a target to reduce the number of ergonomic
615
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Employment practices
continued
illnesses and injuries 10% by 2010. Improving workplace Our team resilience programme is a participatory,
and job design will also improve efficiency and proactive quality- improvement process utilizing
productivity. assessment tools to identify sources of workplace stress
with a team-based solution focused process. It looks at
An internal ‘ergonomics university’ was established in
issues that can cause pressure and affect performance
2005 to increase knowledge of ergonomic issues and
such as work demands, team relationships, management
best practice among GSK employees. We introduced
practices, career and development concerns and work
computer presentations on a variety of ergonomic topics
culture. Individual team members get a confidential
and a CD-based programme for commercial field-based
personal profile and a tailored action plan is developed by
employees covering ergonomics “on the go”. A Global
the whole team. In 2005, 5,800 staff took part in team
Ergonomic Community website was developed for
resilience programmes. The programme has been
employees to discuss issues, share ideas and access
translated into Spanish, Portuguese, French, German,
resources. It includes best practice examples ranging
Italian, Japanese and Mandarin.
from laptop ergonomics to lifting.
The majority of GSK sites have programmes to reduce
We launched an on-line ergonomics risk assessment for
workplace pressures and help employees achieve a good
office-based employees to help reduce ergonomic injuries
work-life balance. These include time management
associated with computer use. The programme is used
training, flexible working options, health awareness and
at over 150 GSK sites worldwide and has been translated
education initiatives. Over 50% of our employees
into Spanish, French, Italian and Polish. In 2005, 5,540
worldwide have access to Employee Assistance
employees completed the computer-based risk
Programmes that provide confidential support 24 hours a
assessment. We are developing a similar risk assessment
day along with additional counselling as needed.
tool for non-office based employees that will be piloted
in our US manufacturing sites. The team resilience programme received external
recognition from the UK Health and Safety Executive
In 2005 we established employee-led ergonomic
(HSE), and was nominated for several awards which
improvement teams at 26 manufacturing sites in the UK,
included winning Personnel Today’s Managing Health at
US, and Latin America. Their role is to embed ergonomic
Work award.
design considerations into workplace practices and
procedures. For example, the team at our Zebulon site in Attendance
the US has made a number of improvements to the work Long-term employee absence has a financial impact on
environment. These include the use of adjustable height GSK through lost productivity and efficiency. By limiting
carts to reduce injuries from lifting heavy items such as employee absence and helping those off work return as
rolls of material. It also reduces waste due to reduced soon as appropriate, we can minimise these costs and
manual handling of the materials. We will launch improve employee wellbeing.
ergonomic improvement teams at manufacturing facilities
In 2004 we launched a new case management approach
across Europe and Asia in 2006.
to long-term employee absence in the UK. This involves
Resilience close collaboration between the EHM team, HR staff, line
Mental illness is another one of the leading causes of managers and the employees themselves. Key elements
ill health resulting in time away from work. We use the include accurately measuring absence and ensuring that
term ‘resilience’ to describe the set of skills and behaviours we maintain regular contact with employees who are off
needed to be successful in a highly pressured, fast-paced work. We make sure that employees and their doctors
and continuously changing environment. This enables know about the wide-range of in-house support available
us to support employees to manage work and home at GSK, including access to physiotherapists, counsellors
demands more effectively, and minimises the adverse and occupational health physicians.
health affects of stress. Data from our resilience
A rehabilitation plan is agreed with the employee. This
programmes show that this can improve business results
may include making modifications to their workplace,
along with employee commitment and engagement.
reducing work hours or finding alternative work until they
These programmes fully support UK legislative
are fully recovered.
requirements to tackle sources of workplace stress.
625
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Employment practices
continued
Initial results suggest that this approach has led to a fall team that has developed a global policy and plan for GSK
in absence rates at several sites from approximately 7% business continuity and employee health preparedness.
to around 3% over 2 years. It is estimated that one A plan that minimises the impact of a pandemic on our
manufacturing site in the UK has experienced cost savings employees, and ensures we are able to continue
of about £1.5 million based on the direct and indirect manufacturing medicines and vaccines.
costs of absence. Employees are returning to work more
Safety Programmes
quickly as they are not being signed off for longer than
We systematically assess risks to anticipate potential
necessary. Staff feedback indicates that the majority of
accidents, and put programmes in place to minimise
employees feel better-informed, valued and supported.
them. We learn from investigating the causes of accidents
During 2006 we will continue to roll out the new and make improvements accordingly. In this section we
procedures across our sites in the UK. We plan to cover three key areas: driver safety, process safety and
complete this process by mid 2006. Our target in the UK chemical exposure.
is to reduce the number of days lost due to long-term
For information on our approach to ergonomics see
absence by 10% in 2006. We have set a target for our
Employee Health.
manufacturing sites worldwide to achieve at least 98%
attendance by 2010. Driver Safety
Our sales representatives drive long distances every year
HIV/AIDS
and are therefore particularly at risk of being involved in
We provide antiretroviral treatment (ARV) to all HIV
work-related road traffic incidents. In 2005, there were
positive GSK employees (full and part-time) and their
137 driving accidents resulting in lost time, and these
families in the developing world where treatment is
accounted for 25% of lost-time injuries.
not provided adequately or consistently by the local
healthcare system. Our Global EHS standard on Occupational Travel includes
requirements on driver safety. In 2004 we developed 11
We offer preferentially priced ARVs to other employers
technical instruction documents to help GSK businesses
in Sub-Saharan Africa who provide care and treatment
comply with the standard. These cover topics such as
for staff. See Preferential Pricing.
training, vehicle selection, risk assessment, accident
We have developed awareness-raising initiatives for use reporting, driving and the environment. In 2005 we
worldwide. In 2005, educational materials developed by combined these documents with additional safety
GSK Kenya and the Positive Action Programme guidelines to create a compliance tool for commercial
[www.gsk.com/positiveaction] were adopted by other businesses called ‘EHS Essentials’.
companies in Kenya, reaching an estimated 10,000
Approximately 60% of GSK’s Commercial businesses have
employees in the public and private sectors. The materials
extensive driver safety programmes in place. They include
have been translated into French and are now available to
driving licence checks, guidance on the use of mobile
companies in Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Chad, Gabon,
phones in vehicles, driver safety training, tracking and
Madagascar and Mali. In early 2006, the materials will be
reporting incidents. We are working to ensure all sites
translated into Arabic with help from companies in
have the same high standards in place.
Morocco. GSK Mexico and GSK Dominican Republic will
develop similar, Spanish-language resources for use in In a few countries we provide motorbikes or scooters for
Central America. GSK India has also started this process employees and have produced a GSK Motorbike Rider
with three employee workshops on HIV and AIDS and a Safety Manual. This has been translated and distributed
pilot survey demonstrating the need for more employee to employees in countries such as Bangladesh, India,
HIV education. Indonesia, Pakistan and Vietnam. These countries have
now also fully implemented the GSK requirement for
Influenza Pandemic
every driver of a motorbike to wear a helmet. We will
Global outbreaks of Avian Influenza (bird flu) have
continue to follow up and monitor the implementation
highlighted the danger of a potential worldwide influenza
of the motorbike safety programme.
pandemic. Externally, we are working with governments
and the WHO to assist with the provision and
development of antiviral drugs and vaccines to manage
a potential pandemic. Internally, we have a cross business
635
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Employment practices
continued
Process Safety and Safety Engineering • we commissioned a benchmarking study of
Our process safety programme ensures that safety is containment methods for potent chemical compounds
built into all manufacturing, research and development
• we seconded a member of Engineering staff to
processes. The programme is based on hazard
Corporate EHS to work on ensuring that all relevant
identification, control and risk assessment. During 2005
operations have engineering controls
we expanded our Risk Assessment Tools & Evaluations
• our new product support process is designed to
(RATE) System. It now includes tools covering: Failure
integrate EHS considerations into product design. Teams
Mode & Effects Analysis, Hazard & Operability, and Failure
include a product stewardship/occupational toxicology
Mode Effects Criticality Analysis. The programmes apply
expert whose role is to ensure that chemical exposure
globally, allowing us to standardized assessment
and other EHS considerations are built into product
documentation and share safety information across all
design
business sectors.
In 2005 we launched an initiative to ensure our Primary
Supply and Antibiotics Supply Chain has updated safety
plans that focus on key risks and regulatory compliance.
Material Hazard Information
Our HazClass System tracks hazardous material shipments
worldwide and monitors the transportation of over
10,000 materials per month.
We have developed safety data sheets (SDSs) for more
than 1,200 of our products. Some 600 of these for
pharmaceutical products that are sold in the US or Europe
are available on our website www.msds-gsk.com]. An
email notification tool automatically keeps employees up-
to-date with changes to SDSs. We have started to make
environmental testing data available on our SDSs.
Occupational Hygiene and Control of Chemical
Exposure
In 2005, exposure to chemicals resulted in 4 respiratory or
skin-related lost-time incidents and 101 cases which did
not result in lost time. Together, they accounted for 31%
of work-related illnesses.
In 2004 we developed a strategy to control chemical
exposure up to 2010. This sets out a plan of action for
achieving our 2010 goal of a ‘shirt sleeve’ working
environment – a workplace where we contain chemicals
using engineering controls during manufacture so that
employees do not need to wear protective equipment.
In 2005 we introduced several steps to help us achieve
this goal:
• we began recruiting Regional Hygienists to deliver an
improved Occupational Hygiene (OH) service to
businesses
• we began to design dispensary equipment for
powdered pharmaceutical ingredients which eliminates
the need for protective equipment
64Human rights
1 Introduction
2 Access to medicine
3 Research
4 Ethical conduct
5 Employment practices
6 Human rights Page
Employee human rights 65
Supply chain human rights 65
7 Environment
8 Community investment
9 Data summary
66
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Human rights
Human rights is a broad subject that is relevant to GSK in a number of different
contexts. In this section we discuss human rights for GSK employees and human
rights in our supply chain.
For information on our preferential pricing arrangements for HIV/AIDS medicines,
see Access to medicines.
Most of our direct employees are well educated and standards via a self-assessment questionnaire. In 2005
skilled people for whom we are striving to make our this audit did not identify any human rights issues in
company an attractive employer. Generally our our workforce
employment standards on issues such as diversity, equal
We can confirm that GSK does not employ children or
opportunities and health and safety provide adequate
anyone younger than 16. All our employees are entitled to
safeguards on human rights for these employees.
join trade unions and to organise, in countries where this
Our supply chain is complex, diverse and global. We is permitted by national legislation. We are committed to
recognise it is possible that suppliers in some countries listening and responding to the views of our employees,
do not fully respect the human rights of their workers or including through works councils and staff consultation
local communities. Within our sphere of influence, we committees, see Internal communication.
have begun work to ensure that our suppliers observe
Discrimination and harassment are not tolerated under
similar standards to ours in their relations with employees
any circumstances. Employees can report any concerns
and communities.
to senior management on a confidential basis, using our
The risk of human rights issues occurring is not as global integrity helpline. During 2005 there were no cases
significant for GSK as for companies in some other reported by employees to our compliance function that
industries. Nevertheless there are several reasons why directly raised human rights issues.
we need to take human rights seriously. Achieving high
standards on human rights supports our reputation and
SUPPLY CHAIN HUMAN RIGHTS
our goal of operational excellence. It helps us to get the
best from our employees. By working with suppliers Our supply chain is complex, with over 75,000 suppliers
that match our standards, we help ensure the smooth worldwide. It ranges from major strategic relationships
operation of supplier contracts and therefore a reliable with suppliers that manufacture raw materials and
supply of high quality products. packaging for GSK medicines through to local contracts
for goods or services such as office equipment, cleaning
and security.
EMPLOYEE HUMAN RIGHTS
We endeavour to ensure that all our suppliers follow the
The human rights of our employees at work are protected
same high standards on human rights that apply to GSK.
by our employment policies and procedures. For more
Given the size and global scope of our supply chain we
details see Employment.
recognise that some suppliers may not fully respect the
We operate globally, including in countries where the human rights of their workers or local communities.
government does not fully respect human rights. We
We have started to work with suppliers on these issues
believe our presence in these countries is vital to ensure
through the inclusion of human rights clauses in supplier
continued access to medicines for their people. We aim
contracts (see next page).
to create a workplace for employees in these countries
where the standards match those in our operations We also cover human rights issues during our routine
elsewhere, and thereby contribute to improving interactions with two categories of critical suppliers – the
employment practices generally. contract manufacturers that make GSK-branded medicines
and consumer health products and the suppliers of raw
We conduct an annual human rights employment audit
materials and packaging to our manufacturing sites.
to make sure we are delivering our commitment to
Historically these suppliers have tended to be based in
international human rights standards. The head of Human
Europe and North America, but there is a growing trend
Resources in each country where we operate is required to
towards sourcing these materials from other areas of the
report on whether GSK employment practices meet these
656
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Human rights
continued
world such as Asia. We visit our critical suppliers regularly 1. Suppliers providing goods that are used to make GSK-
to review performance and to identify and resolve branded products e.g. contract manufacturers, raw
any issues, including any potential human rights issues. materials and packaging; and
These interactions include:
2. Suppliers providing human resources e.g. cleaning
• Pre-assessment of potential new critical suppliers services, security services, contingent worker services,
through questionnaires, on-site reviews and Quality outsourced services, testing, research and development
and EHS Audits. These assessments cover facilities services.
which will directly supply GSK.
This scope will eventually be extended to all contracts.
• On-going critical supplier reviews include follow-up
Engagement with critical suppliers
visits by Procurement, Quality and EHS staff. We also
hold global and regional supplier review meetings Our critical suppliers must work to the highest quality
where senior GSK managers address and interact standards and produce an uninterrupted supply of
with suppliers on key issues. materials and services to GSK. If they do not, the safety,
effectiveness or availability of our medicines could be
It is important that our procurement teams understand
affected. For these reasons, we seek long-term
our human rights standards. We provide training and
relationships with critical suppliers and regularly monitor
guidance on human rights for GSK procurement staff as
all aspects of their performance, including human rights.
part of our Sourcing Group Management programme.
This explains how we develop sourcing strategies and Critical suppliers must pass a detailed assessment before
our criteria for supplier selection, including human rights. they can be selected. As well as looking at quality issues,
The training is compulsory for all new procurement staff. we also assess their policies and procedures for health
and safety, human rights, and environmental issues.
Given the size and complexity of our supply base it is
These rigorous assessments reduce the risk of issues
not possible to engage directly with all our suppliers on
of non- compliance after the contract has been signed.
human rights. As well as our routine engagement with
Where suppliers do not meet our required standards, we
critical suppliers, during 2006 we will start a pilot project
work with them to agree a remedial programme which
to assess the risk of human rights issues occurring among
must be implemented or completed before we award any
suppliers of services where there is a large labour input,
new business to them. All contract manufacturers must
for example cleaning or security.
also be approved by the applicable regulatory authority
We also engage with suppliers on environmental, health before they can start manufacturing GSK medicines.
and safety issues, see Environment and Working with our
After a contract has been awarded we seek to
Ribena suppliers to improve biodiversity, below.
develop strong, open relationships with critical suppliers.
Supplier contracts This includes formally agreed Supplier Reviews, to
We are adding human rights clauses to our supplier assess performance and identify and agree areas for
contracts. These require suppliers to confirm that they improvement. After a Supplier Review the agreed action
comply with minimum wage legislation; provide a healthy, plan is signed off by GSK and the supplier. Where a
safe workplace free from discrimination; and do not use supplier can’t or won’t improve their performance we
any form of slavery or exploitative child labour. will move our business to an alternative supplier.
So far, we have incorporated human rights clauses into We have launched a preferred global vendor programme
all central contract templates for use with new suppliers. to reduce the number of suppliers. As well as reducing
Human rights clauses are also being introduced into costs and increasing efficiency this will make it easier to
contracts for existing suppliers as they are renewed. monitor and influence supplier standards.
Most contracts are renewed on a three-year cycle. Supplier audits
During 2005 we worked with our local procurement We conduct regular Environment Health and Safety
teams to incorporate human rights clauses into local audits of our contract manufacturers that include
supplier contracts. Given the size of the supply chain we questions on human rights. In 2005 there were 41
have prioritised contracts into which the human rights audits conducted and no human rights issues of
clause must be inserted. The initial focus is: significant concern were noted.
666
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Human rights
continued
GSK Supplier human rights clauses
The human rights clause (below) is based on international workplace norms in the International Labour
Organisation conventions and the UN’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
The text below sets out the standard English-language version of the contract clause, but it must be
noted that the exact wording may vary between contracts. GSK attorneys may amend the wording of
the HR Clause during negotiation with third parties or during translation to suit local law. However GSK
attorneys have been instructed not to change the Human Rights Clause in any way that reduces its
contractual impact or intent.
THE GSK STANDARD CONTRACT CLAUSE FOR ETHICAL STANDARDS AND HUMAN RIGHTS
Ethical Standards and Human Rights
Unless otherwise required or prohibited by law, the (f) it pays each employee at least the minimum wage,
Supplier warrants, to the best of its knowledge, that or a fair representation of the prevailing industry
in relation to the supply of goods or services under wage, (whichever is the higher) and provides each
the terms of this Agreement: employee with all legally mandated benefits;
(a)it does not employ engage or otherwise use any (g)it complies with the laws on working hours and
child labour in circumstances such that the tasks employment rights in the countries in which it
performed by any such child labour could operates;
reasonably be foreseen to cause either physical
(h)it is respectful of its employees right to join and
or emotional impairment to the development of
form independent trade unions and freedom of
such child;
association.
(b)it does not use forced labour in any form
The Supplier agrees that it is responsible for controlling
(prison, indentured, bonded or otherwise) and
its own supply chain and that it shall encourage
its employees are not required to lodge papers
compliance with ethical standards and human rights
or deposits on starting work;
by any subsequent supplier of goods and services that
(c) it provides a safe and healthy workplace, are used by Supplier when performing its obligations
presenting no immediate hazards to its employees. under this Agreement.
Any housing provided by the Supplier to its
The Supplier shall ensure that it has ethical and
employees is safe for habitation. The Supplier
human rights policies and an appropriate complaints
provides access to clean water, food, and
procedure to deal with any breaches of such policies.
emergency healthcare to its employees in the
event of accidents or incidents at the Supplier's GSK reserves the right upon reasonable notice (unless
workplace; inspection is for cause, in which case no notice shall
be necessary) to enter upon the Supplier's premises to
(d)it does not discriminate against any employees
monitor compliance by the Supplier of the warranties
on any ground (including race, religion, disability
set out in the clause above and the Supplier shall,
or gender).
subject to compliance with law, furnish GSK with
(e)it does not engage in or support the use of any relevant documents requested by GSK in relation
corporal punishment, mental, physical, sexual or thereto. {this sub-section will only be required where
verbal abuse and does not use cruel or abusive there is no general right of audit elsewhere within
disciplinary practices in the workplace; the Agreement}
67Environment
1 Introduction Energy and global warming potential 88
Energy consumption 90
2 Access to medicine
Transport 96
3 Research Water 98
Water use 98
4 Ethical conduct
Wastewater 101
5 Employment practices
Waste 106
6 Human rights Hazardous waste 106
Non-hazardous waste 111
7 Environment Page
Recycling 115
Introduction 68
Non-routine waste 119
ERM Verification statement and
Ozone depletion 121
GSK response 70
Ozone-depleting substances in
Environmental management 72
manufacturing 121
Plan for Excellence 75
Ozone-depleting substances in
Audits and certification 76
ancillary equipment 124
Stakeholder engagement 76
Volatile organic compounds 127
Training and awareness 78
Biodiversity 131
EHS Excellence awards 78
Suppliers 132
Progress towards targets 80
Materials efficiency 82 8 Community investment
Product stewardship 85
9 Data summary
Product design 85
Pharmaceuticals in the environment 86
Metered dose inhalers 87
77
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Environment
This year we have completed the first five years of our Environment, Health & Safety
(EHS) Plan for Excellence, which marks an important milestone in our journey to
environmental sustainability. Environmental performance is reported in these pages.
Health and safety performance is reported in the Employee section
INTRODUCTION Our EHS structure includes:
In 2001, we set “stretch” targets in consultation with 1. Management system based on a set of Global
the business to address EHS issues of concern to our Standards incorporated into a framework of EHS
stakeholders. When we set these targets we had identified programmes
some proposed improvement projects which would help us
2. The EHS Plan for Excellence, which identifies our
to achieve them but we did not have specific underpinning
ten-year strategic vision for EHS in GSK
projects to achieve all the environmental targets.
3. The CEO’s EHS Excellence Awards which recognise
Performance
outstanding projects at GSK sites around the world
We have achieved many of the EHS targets. We met or
[link to Excellence awards in this document]
surpassed targets in energy consumption (and related
carbon dioxide emissions), water consumption, We feel that we have made significant progress in
wastewater organic material (measured as chemical improving the performance of EHS in GSK but we realise
oxygen demand), non-hazardous waste, and ozone that there is always more to do. First, we need to embed
depleting substances used to produce our inhalers. this culture so that people really understand the business
benefits of good EHS practice: enhanced productivity,
For volatile organic compound (VOC) emissions to air we
quality and employee relationships, which are beneficial
achieved a significant reduction and almost achieved our
for GSK’s performance and reputation.
ambitious target of a 30% reduction.
Investors
We also set an ambitious target for ozone depleting
This is already understood by investors. They appreciate
compounds in ancillary equipment, where we achieved a
not only our progress but the transparency which means
36% improvement.
we are open about the areas where we have not done as
In some cases changes in the business helped us to make well as we had planned.
progress (eg wastewater quality and emissions of solvents
This has been borne out by the positive ratings that GSK
to air). But in two cases – hazardous waste disposal and
receives from the various investor ratings.
recycling – changes made progress more difficult. We did
not meet targets in these areas due to factors such as GSK has been recognized in these indices:
maintenance of recycling systems, movement of products
• Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) for 2005:
to production facilities without recycling equipment, and
DJSI members are the top 10 per cent of their industry
new product introduction.
sector. They are selected from the 2,500 largest
We provide details of performance in each area on the companies in the world. Selection is based on a best-
performance pages of this section. in-class approach covering economic, social and
environmental criteria.
EHS Management
A solid foundation of programmes and management • Business in the Environment Index Premier League:
systems contributes to the progress we have made. GSK This is the third consecutive year that GSK has been
has moved towards what I describe as a “self-regulatory” listed in the Premier League, achieving a score of 97
EHS culture, which focuses first on achieving legal per cent for 2004 data. The index rates environmental
compliance and manages EHS proactively based on our management and environmental performance.
understanding of the risks, liabilities and opportunities. It • Carbon Disclosure Project's Climate Leadership
is part of our strategic objectives to achieve operational Index:GSK is one of only three pharmaceutical
excellence and to be a responsible company. companies named to the Climate Leadership Index. The
Carbon Disclosure Project is a coalition of 155
687
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Environment
continued
institutional investors with more than $21 trillion in • Energy conservation
assets. The Climate Leadership Index includes only
In the longer term, we can see three possible steps to
companies that are well positioned to respond to the
becoming a more environmentally sustainable business:
financial implications of climate change, compared to
their FT500 peers. • Improve natural resource efficiency and decrease the
amount of waste we generate. We are looking more
• FTSE4Good 2005:The FTSE4Good Index Series only
broadly than production to include the efficiency of all
includes companies that meet globally recognised
our operations [LINK to Materials efficiency]
corporate responsibility standards, and facilitates
investment in those companies. • Move from relying on non-renewable chemicals to
renewable materials
• 100 Most Sustainable Companies:GSK was one of
only four pharmaceutical companies identified in the • Move from using synthetic chemical routes to biological
Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations in the systems to create medicines
World. This is a project initiated by Corporate Knights It will take many years to achieve this transition, but it is
with Innovest Strategic Value Advisors, a leading part of the journey towards being an environmentally
research firm specialising in analysing “non traditional” sustainable company.
drivers of risk and shareholder value covering
performance on social, environmental and strategic James Hagan
governance issues. Launched in 2005, the annual Vice President,
Global 100 is announced each year at the World Corporate Environment, Health and Safety
Economic Forum in Davos. About the Environment Section of This Report
Ratings like these help investors identify companies that This is the 6th year that we have reported on our
will meet their investment goals and are important to environmental performance. The legacy companies (Glaxo
GSK's reputation. They are achieved by our pro-active Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham) individually published
approach to EHS and sustainability and the company-wide EHS reports for a number of years prior to the formation
reporting of EHS performance data. These index listings of GSK in 2000. Copies of these reports are available on
are a tribute to the many EHS professionals and other the Corporate Register website
managers and staff at all the GSK sites who report the [www.corporateregister.com].
data on which these listing are based,
Further background information on our approach to
Investors and other stakeholders also appreciate our managing environmental issues is available in the
commitment to dialogue – just as much as we appreciate Environment, Health and Safety section of our website
the value of stakeholders’ perspectives. We have now [www.gsk.com].
created a formal Stakeholder Panel but we have also
Note on the scope of the data
consulted widely with GSK people as we move to the next
The environmental data covers the calendar year 2005. It
five-year plan period.
is collected from all of our 81 pharmaceutical and
The Future consumer manufacturing sites, six of our eight Biologicals
Internal and external engagement has helped us to focus manufacturing sites and 18 of 20 pharmaceutical and
on these major challenges for the immediate future: consumer research and development sites as well as all
seven distribution centres, six of eight major office
• Occupational exposure to chemicals [see occupational
locations and four of the smaller office and sales locations.
hygiene page nn]
We include available data for sites that were in operation
• Driver safety [see page nn] for all or part of the year.
• Process safety [see page nn]
Notes attached to the charts explain the scope and data
• Pharmaceuticals in the environment [see page nn] collection process for each parameter in more detail. Unless
specified as being per unit of sales, figures are absolute
• Hazardous chemicals usage
numbers (ie total consumption of energy, water etc.)
697
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Environment
continued
Verification Overall assessment
The environment, health and safety sections of this Subject to the scope of our assessment and comments
report are externally verified by ERM (Environmental set out below, we believe GSK’s EHS reporting in the 2005
Resources Management). Pages to which Corporate Responsibility report is a complete, relevant and
the verification applies are indicated by this accurate representation of GSK’s performance. From our
symbol. ERM’s verification statement and our review we have made the following findings and
response follow. recommendations.
Findings
ERM VERIFICATION STATEMENT Reporting
This year, GSK has reported on its progress against
Environmental Resources Management Limited (ERM) was
the five year performance targets it set in key areas of
appointed by GSK to undertake an external verification
environment, health and safety. We found that GSK has
assessment of its environment, health and safety (EHS)
made good progress on strengthening internal reporting
reporting within the GSK 2005 Corporate Responsibility
processes and better understanding the reasons for EHS
report (The section on Environment and the Health &
performance change against its targets.
Safety pages within the Employee Practices section).
GSK provides a wide range of information in its report but
This is the fifth year of our involvement as an external
it is not always clear which are the material issues facing
verifier with GSK. The objectives of our assessment were
the business. We found inconsistency in the level of detail
to: check that the EHS data presented are accurate, and
provided on reasons for performance change, for example
that they represent GSK’s performance fairly; critically
how changes at major contributing sites significantly
review the completeness and relevance of the information
affect the Group total.
presented; and, assess the effectiveness of GSK’s data
management and reporting systems. The pages of GSK’s GSK has improved collection of data from contract
report that contain EHS data verified by ERM are marked manufacturers and suppliers, and has expanded the
with the following symbol. number of contract manufacturers from which it collects
key EHS data in 2005. There are ongoing challenges in
collecting complete and accurate data for GSK to be able
to report on its broader EHS footprint.
One of our 2004 recommendations related to the
limitations of EHS performance data, in particular the
Scope of assessment
potential scale of statistical uncertainty, which is under
During the period October 2005 to February 2006 we
consideration by GSK. The 2005 report does not
conducted the following tasks:
consistently cover the significance of potential limitations
• Assessments at six globally significant sites ( ) and of the data such as calculation method or robustness of
telephone interviews with 13 additional sites to review sampling techniques to understanding performance
EHS data management and reporting processes; change, for example calculating VOC emissions.
• Review of corporate data collation and internal Data Accuracy
verification processes at GSK offices in the UK; GSK has continued to make progress to improve the
• Review of the content of the EHS sections of the 2005 accuracy of its EHS data by introducing further internal
Corporate Responsibilityreport, including checking data checks with the globally significant sites. ERM
sample group data, to assess its completeness, identified a number of material data inaccuracies through
relevance and accuracy; and its assessments at site level and checking of sample group
data, in part due to changes in the reporting schedule in
• Interviews with corporate personnel to obtain
2005 that were introduced to meet the deadlines of the
supporting information on GSK’s EHS performance in
Corporate Reporting program. These inaccuracies were
the following areas: acquisitions and divestitures;
subsequently addressed by GSK to ensure accurate
contaminated land; auditing of GSK sites, suppliers and
reporting in the 2005 Corporate Responsibility report.
contract manufacturers; H&S reporting relating to the
US sales force; and, setting of performance targets.
707
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Environment
continued
There have been improvements in energy performance GSK RESPONSE TO VERIFICATION STATEMENT
following the introduction of a business-specific energy
After verifying GSK’s EHS reports for five years, many of
management programme which have also helped to
ERM’s recommendations point to improvements that we
ensure more accurate data reporting. GSK is rolling out
work on every year. For example, every year we improve
new system functions to help integrate EHS management
processes for collecting data, clarify definitions and
and data collection.
instructions, provide training to the people at sites who
We found challenges associated with accurate and gather and enter their site data, improve the processes for
complete health and safety incidents reporting and analysing and summarising the data and try to understand
investigation at site level, including a weakness in formal the changes from year to year.
internal processes to check compliance with GSK’s
1.Explain materiality:
requirements on accurate reporting and full investigation
In 2001, as part of the planning process that resulted
of incidents. In addition, we found examples of
in our 10-year EHS Plan for Excellence, we conducted
misreporting due to poor understanding of the corporate
a review of reporting. We considered the measures of
reporting requirements and data entry errors.
our EHS impact used within the company. We used the
Recommendations Global Reporting Initiative and surveys from investment
We recommend that GSK: rating organisations and environmental organizations as
indicators of stakeholder expectations for EHS reporting
• Explains which of the issues it reports on are material to by companies of our size. From this exercise we
the business and prioritises its reporting accordingly; concluded that the information and metrics we include
• Reports further on how trends in outsourcing affect its in this report are material to GSK. We decided to be
overall EHS footprint and performance, and expand consistent in our reporting for the five year period of
further the reporting on EHS impacts of contract our Plan for Excellence. As we move into the next five
manufacturers and suppliers; year period, we will again review the materiality of the
information and metrics we report and will continue
• Improves the accuracy of environmental and incidents
to report what our external stakeholders consider
data by introducing additional mechanisms to check
important.
completeness of data reported by sites and by providing
additional training to sites on reporting and data 2.Trends in outsourcing:
management; It is our goal to report, in the aggregate, the EHS
• Reviews formal processes to check compliance with performance of our contract manufacturers and key
GSK’s requirements on accurate reporting and full suppliers. We hope to use this to report the total EHS
investigation of incidents; and footprint for GSK products and to use this as the basis
for our improvement targets. We request EHS
• Looks for opportunities to further align data
information from all our contract manufacturers and
management at corporate and site level, integrating
key suppliers every year but response is voluntary and
reporting and core business processes where
the rate is very low. We intend to make response to this
practicable.
questionnaire an integral part of future contracts.
ERM 3.Accuracy of site EHS data
March 2006 A comprehensive global EHS information management
system is in place to help sites manage their EHS data.
We use the same system to collect the data for this
report and for internal reporting. We recognise that the
past error rate of initial entry varies between 25% and
50% and we have put in place a thorough data
verification process to correct the errors. We are
attempting to address this situation by providing
additional web-based training. We are also conducting
a formal review of the information that has been
requested from sites to see if it can be simplified, while
still meeting the needs of our stakeholders.
717
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Environment
continued
4.Review the processes to check compliance with Stakeholder engagement plays an important role in
reporting and investigation of incidents how we manage EHS. In 2005 we carried out a special
We have completed the first phase of our audit engagement exercise with employees and set up a
programme, conducting a comprehensive baseline standing panel of external EHS stakeholders. Feedback
review. In 2006 we are starting a risk-based audit from staff and external sources identifies issues and
process. We will include a review of reporting EHS data provides insights that help us determine how to move
and investigation of incidents as part of this process. forward.
We will also increase our level of training in these areas.
Our CEO’s EHS Excellence Awards recognise and reward
5.Align Corporate and site data management GSK sites that show leadership in EHS. The Awards
We will be conducting a formal review of our highlight sites that have demonstrated exceptional
information management practices to identify commitment, with innovative approaches that provide
improvements that can be made in both the examples of good practice on EHS management to share
Corporate and site processes. with other sites. The winners of our 2005 Excellence
Awards demonstrate that many projects which improve
environmental performance also save money.
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
We carry out regular EHS audits of GSK operations,
Environmental issues are managed together with health contract manufacturers and key suppliers to assess the
and safety through an integrated EHS system that aims extent to which management systems and standards are
to ensure issues and risks are identified, standards are being implemented to improve performance and achieve
established, training is provided, targets set and audits compliance.
conducted.
Environment Costs
We have a clearly defined EHS management structure. In 2005, our capital investment in environmental projects
Overall responsibility rests with the Corporate Executive was £11.2 million and our operating and maintenance
Team and the Board. The Board champion for EHS is JP costs were £37.8 million. This expenditure relates to
Garnier, the Chief Executive Officer. Rupert Bondy, General wastewater treatment, waste management and air
Counsel, is the operational champion of EHS on the pollution control.
corporate executive team. We also have a Corporate
Responsibility Committee and Corporate EHS department.
See more on our EHS management organisation and
system on our website
Our EHS Policy, Vision and 64 Global EHS Standards set
the overall framework for managing issues. In 2005 we
distributed an EHS management toolkit which provides
sites with instructions and descriptions of appropriate
procedures for managers worldwide.
Our EHS Plan for Excellence which was developed in
2001, sets out our 10-year strategy for improving our
environmental performance. In 2005 we came to the end
of the first 5-year period and began revising and
extending the Plan to 2015.
727
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Environment
continued
30
25
20
15
10
5
Waste
Wastewater
Air
0
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005
73
)£
noillim(
Capital investment
Capital investment
Year Air Wastewater Waste Total
2001 9.8 10.9 3.2 23.9
2002 4.5 10.5 2.0 17.1
2003 4.4 1.3 4.0 9.7
2004 3.4 2.4 3.3 9.2
2005 3.4 3.1 4.7 11.27
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Environment
continued
Operations and maintenance costs
50
40
30
20
10
Waste
Wastewater
Air
0
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005
Operations and maintenance costs
Year Air Wastewater Waste Total
2001 1.5 10.1 29.8 41.3
2002 2.3 14.6 31.3 48.2
2003 1.7 10.0 23.8 35.4
2004 2.2 10.2 29.2 41.6
2005 1.4 9.3 27.1 37.8
74
)£
noillim(7
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Environment
continued
Compliance Our goal was to ensure that core programmes covering
As a minimum we aim to comply with all legal health & safety and the environment were in place
requirements. We regret that in 2005 we were throughout the global business, measured by the
in breach of regulations in these cases: following:
• a UK consumer healthcare manufacturing site paid a • implementing at all operations our EHS management
£15,000 fine and £6,650 court costs following a system – which is aligned with ISO14001 and OHSAS
prosecution by the UK Health and Safety Executive for 18001
an incident that occurred in 2004 and resulted in
• achieving acceptable audit scores at all our
amputation of an employee’s finger tip
manufacturing and R&D operations. We aimed to
• a US consumer healthcare manufacturing site paid a achieve an average score of at least 75% in each
$11,063 fine to their state environmental authority for business unit, with no site achieving less than 50%
not completing required report of storage of hazardous
• achieving the 5-year EHS global targets (see Progress
waste
Towards Targets)
• a Puerto Rico pharmaceutical manufacturing site paid a
• analysing performance against the first set of targets
$1,600 fine to the US Environmental Protection Agency
in the Plan for Excellence
as a result of failure to fully comply with the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act • formalising our external stakeholder engagement
process
• a US consumer healthcare manufacturing site paid a
$1,000 fine to the US Occupational Safety and Health We report performance against these objectives in these
Administration (OSHA) related to non-compliance with pages.
OSHA eyewash requirements
In 2005 we began extending the Plan for Excellence to
We also received the following notices of violation which 2015. We aim to move from a focus on fundamental
did not result in fines or penalties EHS programmes to address broader environmental
sustainability issues. This requires a new approach to
• a consumer healthcare manufacturing site in Australia,
manufacturing processes and measuring progress.
for exceeding allowable limits for suspended solids in
wastewater We began our review of the Plan for Excellence with
an extensive consultation with key internal and external
• two consumer healthcare manufacturing sites in the US,
stakeholders to ensure relevant EHS concerns and the
for exceeding permitted substance levels in wastewater
needs of the business would be reflected in the
Plan for Excellence extended plan.
Our EHS Plan for Excellence set out a strategy to improve
• We engaged with external stakeholders about key EHS
our EHS performance over a ten-year period from 2001
concerns and expectations of GSK and the
to 2010. With the end of the first five year period in 2005
pharmaceutical industry
we have taken stock and begun extending the Plan for a
further five years to 2015. • We undertook a company-wide intranet survey seeking
comment on a discussion document that reviewed
We developed the plan following the merger of Glaxo
emerging issues for the business and EHS
Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham. It aligned the EHS
systems of the two parent companies and laid out an • We held individual discussions with selected senior
approach for establishing a new EHS framework for GSK. managers in all parts of the business
• We held workshops around the world with GSK's site-
We use annual action plans to focus our efforts on
based EHS professionals, including sessions on vision
selected priority issues. As the half-way point in the
and strategy with the Corporate EHS team.
ten year plan, 2005 was important because it was the
year when we aimed to have our fundamental EHS Our managers and EHS professionals told us they want
programmes in place, and to reach our first set of EHS GSK to be among the top pharmaceutical companies in
targets. The theme for the year was ’Completing Core this area, but also that our activity must “add value” to
Programmes’. the business.
757
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Environment
continued
They want us to work with external organisations, and Sites are required to develop plans to address any
to be flexible in embedding EHS in business practices – weaknesses and improvements identified in the audit.
adopting approaches which are appropriate for each Auditors monitor sites’ progress in implementing the
business unit. plans. In 2005 the EHS audit process and scoring system
were further refined based on experience and feedback,
External stakeholders highlighted climate change,
including assessing auditors’ reports to ensure greater
pharmaceuticals in the environment and our policy on the
consistency. EHS auditing software is available on our
use of chemicals as key areas of concern. They told us
intranet to help sites and auditors track progress.
GSK should be at the forefront of EHS and sustainability
issues and exert a positive influence over others in the EHS Certification
industry and in its supply chain. At the request of the Audit Committee of the Board of
Directors, GSK has embarked on a programme to achieve
We published feedback from these discussions in a
ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certification. In 2005, three
consultative document for further comment by both
additional sites achieved certification to the international
internal stakeholders and GSK’s new EHS External
environmental management standard, ISO14001. Two of
Stakeholder Panel. See Stakeholder Engagement for more
these also achieved certification to the international health
information.
and safety standard OHSAS 18001 bringing the total of
We expect to publish the renewed 10-year EHS Plan for dual certified sites to 16. One certified site left the GSK
Excellence in mid-2006. network. This means that 23 out of 89 pharmaceutical,
consumer and vaccine manufacturing sites are now
Audits and Certification
certified (6 sites are certified to ISO 14001 only) and one
Our audit programme requires all manufacturing and R&D
site’s utility area is certified to both. The certified sites are
sites to be audited. Internal auditors (who are certified as
in China, Egypt, France, Germany, India, Italy, Mexico,
lead auditors against the international environment health
Poland, Saudi Arabia, Spain, Turkey, Kenya and the UK.
and safety management standards: ISO 14001 and
OHSAS18001) assess how well EHS management systems In 2006 we continue to work on increasing the number
and standards are being implemented and how well our of certified sites by encouraging sites to volunteer for
sites comply with key legislation. In 2006 we are revising certification. We will also launch a pilot project to
the audit process to focus on significant health and safety investigate the feasibility of certifying Research &
risks and environmental impacts. The frequency of site Development sites. We will then be in a position to
audits will be determined by factors such as EHS risks, move towards global certification.
profile and performance.
Stakeholder Engagement
At the end of 2005 we assessed the performance of all We have frequently engaged through ad hoc meetings
facilities (except small commercial sites) using self- with a range of external stakeholders to help us
assessment and internal audit. (We audited 33 sites.) The understand their perspectives and identify emerging
average score was 77%, but 3 sites achieved scores below issues. In 2005 we stepped up our internal and external
50%, which we regard as unacceptable. While the engagement on EHS issues.
average score exceeds our target of 75% we will aim to
External engagement
correct unacceptable performance and continue to pursue
We established a standing panel of external stakeholders
further improvements to achieve best practice.
to provide ongoing advice and comment on our EHS
In 2005, two sites (in the US and Spain) achieved performance. The panel is facilitated by The Environment
“leadership” scores above 90%, while a further seven Council, an independent charity which brings people
achieved scores over 80%. together to develop long-term solutions to environmental
issues. The 10 members include representatives from our
The best performance on environmental issues was in
customers, suppliers, regulators, environmental
air emissions, ozone depleting substances and waste
organisations and socially responsible investors.
management. Sites were generally weakest on biodiversity,
risk assessment and self-auditing. Self-audit nevertheless The panel met for the first time in September 2005 to
achieved one of the biggest improvements over the year, review our draft position papers on pharmaceuticals in the
along with process risk management. environment, climate change, and policy on the use of
chemicals – issues identified as important in previous
767
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Environment
continued
stakeholder discussions. Members wanted us to show biodiversity more effectively in our audit programmes,
leadership on all three issues, and provide a better and we sponsored the policy group Green Alliance to
explanation of how the papers fit in with our EHS conduct a study on how to achieve better environmental
strategy. Their comments were considered in our internal regulation.
discussions, before we finalised the position papers, which
We are conscious that our stakeholder engagement
have been approved by the Corporate Executive Team.
activities are heavily focused on the UK. We have begun
These position papers are available via the relevant
to explore ways to extend them to Europe, the US and
sections of this site.
beyond over the next few years.
The Panel also reviewed our proposal for revising the EHS
Many of our sites also engage with stakeholders locally,
Plan for Excellence Members expressed a desire to see us
for example, through open days, newsletters and
at the forefront of EHS and sustainability issues, exerting a
community projects.
positive influence over others in the industry and its supply
chain. Their comments (see side panel) will be considered Regulation
in developing the Plan further. GSK is keen to see proper measures in place to protect the
environment and safeguard the development and launch
Internal engagement
of new medicines. In 2005 we engaged with regulatory
We regularly gather staff feedback through employee
agencies in Europe and the USA on the issues of
surveys but in 2005 we used the intranet to conduct our
pharmaceuticals in the environment (PiE) and the
most extensive survey yet about the views of all employees
environmental risk assessment of pharmaceuticals.
on our EHS plans. This feedback will also be used to revise
and develop our Plan for Excellence • In the US, we engaged with the newly established
intergovernmental task force on PiE through the trade
Employees told us:
association PhRMA;
• The EHS strategy must add value to GSK’s business as
• We are an active member of the Association of British
well as “doing the right thing”
Pharmaceutical Industries’ working group on PiE which
• Employees want GSK to be among the top has been liaising with the UK Environment Agency;
pharmaceutical companies in EHS and to collaborate
• In Sweden we participated in an initiative organised by
with other major players in the industry
the trade association LIF to develop a voluntary scheme
• We need to embed EHS into the business, not just with to classify pharmaceuticals by their environmental
systems but by instilling a culture where all employees effects. The scheme has now been published [see
contribute to EHS http://www.fass.se] and an initial set of pharmaceuticals
have been evaluated.
• GSK should be a champion for transparency in EHS
• Through the European trade association EFPIA, we
• We should do more to track and influence new
contributed to the development of guidelines for the
regulations through more involvement in trade
environmental risk assessment of pharmaceuticals by
associations
the European Medicines Evaluation Agency (EMEA).
• We need to do more to address EHS issues in contract The guidelines are expected to be finalised in 2006.
manufacturing
We welcome the introduction of formal requirements for
• The Plan for Excellence must be flexible enough to the conduct of environmental risk assessment established
allow for different rates of progress in different parts in the EU’s New Medicines Legislation. GSK has lobbied
of the business for the environmental impacts of pharmaceuticals to be
Partnerships regulated solely through the European Agency for the
We also partner with a number of environmental Evaluation of Medical Products, and not also through the
organisations in specific areas. For example, in 2005 we proposed framework for the Registration, Evaluation and
worked with Forum for the Future to evaluate the role Authorisation of Chemicals (REACH). We believe this
of a pharmaceutical company in a sustainable society. would lead to duplication of efforts and place an
We also worked with the environmental organisation unnecessary burden on the pharmaceutical industry.
Earthwatch Institute (Europe) to look at ways to address
777
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Environment
continued
Training and Awareness Awareness
Raising employees’ awareness of environment, health We use several means of raising awareness of EHS issues
and safety issues and improving their skills through and complementing our training programmes:
training are key parts of our EHS programme. Employees
• the Chief Executive Officer’s EHS Excellence Awards
at all levels need to understand the EHS issues in their
scheme recognises outstanding efforts in EHS and helps
working environment. For example, employees who
raise the profile of these issues around the business.
handle waste at GSK sites need to know about its
properties, the regulations that govern its disposal, • We publish regular bulletins which are distributed to all
and which materials can be recycled. sites for posting on bulletin boards. Three bulletins were
circulated in 2005.
We help employees deal with these issues through
• We include articles on EHS in our internal magazine
meetings, bulletins, and information on our intranet site,
(GSK Spirit), our manufacturing magazine and site
as well as specific training events
newsletters.
The intranet site, myEHS Community, contains links
• We run an Environment Week every June (to coincide
to a range of programmes, including the EHS Manager
with the World Environment Day). Information kits are
information system which contains policies, standards,
sent to all sites to help them develop ideas and plan
guidelines, tools, training materials, examples of best
activities. In 2005, over 11,000 GSK employees from
practice and news. It also provides customised
more than 60 sites worldwide took part in Environment
management reports on EHS performance by site.
Week. Activities focused on issues as varied as
EHS training is also accessible through myLearning,
biodiversity, sustainable purchasing and waste
GSK's online training service.
management.
Training
We also encourage employees to consider environmental
Training takes place at site level, in accordance with
issues outside the workplace, such as minimizing
our EHS Standard on training. EHS requirements and
household waste, energy and water conservation,
programmes are routinely included in site induction
and encouraging the use of fuel-efficient vehicles.
training for new employees. We regularly assess additional
needs to make sure they match employee responsibilities EHS Excellence Awards
and local regulatory requirements. The Chief Executive Officer’s EHS Excellence Awards
recognise and reward GSK sites for innovation in EHS
In 2005 we carried out additional EHS management
Community Partnership, Green Chemistry/Technology,
training for our Consumer Healthcare and Regional
and EHS Initiative (one for environment, one for health
Pharma Supply organisations. We made site visits for
and safety). Each winner receives a trophy and selects a
one-on-one training, and sent EHS Essentials (a CD-based
charity to receive a donation from GSK.
compliance tool) to 140 sales offices around the world to
improve EHS awareness. The Vanguard Award was introduced in 2005. It is given
at the discretion of the CEO to honour recurring, lasting
During 2005 we held regional meetings in the UK,
and far reaching accomplishments in EHS.
Mexico, China and Spain for EHS and Employee Health
professionals to share information and best practice. In 2005 – the fourth year of the Awards – there were
More than 120 employees from 79 sites took part. The 120 entries from 26 countries, the same as in 2004.
meetings included training on EHS management system There were applications from all GSK’s business sectors:
auditing, auditing of hazardous waste disposal sites, injury R&D, Manufacturing and Commercial, and for the first
and illness reporting, ergonomic risk assessment, resilience time entries from Facilities Management teams.
and mental well-being.
The winners were chosen by a panel that included experts
EHS managers are encouraged to attend conferences and from academia, government and NGOs. In 2005, 12
training programs sponsored by local environmental projects representing sites in Europe, North America, and
organisations and academic institutions. Asia received top honours. The winning projects covered
areas as diverse as safe driving programmes and new
product processes that use less energy and reduce waste.
787
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Environment
continued
The 2005 award winners were: A new manufacturing process for this diabetes drug has
reduced the number of stages required for its synthesis,
Vanguard Award
increasing yields by 39%, reducing waste by 70% and
Rajahmundry, India received the first ever Vanguard
avoiding the use of some hazardous materials
Award for recurring, lasting and far reaching
accomplishments in EHS Third Place:Tonbridge, United Kingdom for:
Development of an Environmentally Friendly Process for
Rajahmundry, where Horlicks and related products are
Manufacture of GW274150F
made, has an outstanding record in the EHS Excellence
Awards. In 2003, they received two First Place awards Tonbridge developed a new process for synthesising this
and one Second Place, and were awarded a Special potential asthma drug, using cheap and readily available
Commendation in 2004. This year they received another materials which reduce health and safety concerns and
First Place in the EHS Initiative category. Their first rate the amount of solvent required in manufacturing.
2005 EHS Community Partnership entry demonstrated
EHS Initiative – Environment
a continuing passion for building good relationships
First Place: Rajahmundry, India for: Use Methane
between GSK and the local community though
imaginative environment, health and safety partnerships. A Waste Management review revealed that most of
Also, in 2005 they became the first GSK site to achieve the methane generated at the Rajahmundry’s effluent
accreditation to the international standard for Social treatment plant was burnt through a flare stack. The EHS
Accountability, SA-8000, following ISO 14001 and OHSAS team diverted the methane to use as fuel in the site
18001 accreditation for Environment and Health & Safety. canteen instead of liquefied petroleum gas
Community Partnership Second Place:Rixensart and Wavre, Belgium for:
First Place:Aranda, Spain for: Supporting Implementation Management of Green Spaces
of ‘Agenda 21’ in Schools
The Rixensart and Wavre sites in Belgium have teams to
Agenda 21 emerged from the Earth Summit in Rio de develop and manage green spaces. They have developed
Janeiro in 1992 as a plan for sustainable development. a number of short and medium term projects to protect
Aranda has contributed to its introduction at eight the natural environment and improve biodiversity in and
schools in the local community, promoting environmental around the sites.
education.
Third Place:Thane, India for: Water Conservation
Second Place:Nabha, India for “Ignited Minds – Building
The site carried out a water conservation project that
Awareness of Road Safety”
included raising employee awareness and focused on
The project aimed to raise children’s awareness of safe three initiatives: harvesting rainwater for reuse,
driving and road safety in five government schools in introducing water saving and recovery measures in the
Nabha, reaching a total of 7,000 children. site’s heating and cooling systems, and recycling treated
effluent water for gardening.
Green Chemistry/Technology
First Place:Tonbridge, United Kingdom for: Development
of a Green Process for GW873140A
This new manufacturing process for the antiretroviral drug
GW873140A has significant environmental benefits as
well as cost savings. It produces no solid waste to be sent
to landfill, reduces liquid waste by 37%, and the uses
16% less energy.
Second Place:Research Triangle Park, United States of
America for: Development of the Manufacture Route for
GW677954X
797
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Environment
continued
PROGRESS TOWARDS TARGETS • Wastewater quality measured by chemical oxygen
demand
Our EHS Plan for Excellence identified targets in 10 areas,
with interim targets for 2005 – halfway through the plan • Non-hazardous waste disposed
period. So we can now review progress over the five
Target nearly achieved
years, as well as beginning work to extend the Plan for
a further five years to 2015. • Volatile organic compounds emitted to air
We have achieved six targets and missed four. Targets not achieved
• Ozone depletion potential from ancillary equipment
Targets achieved
• Hazardous waste disposed
• Energy use
• Waste recycled
• Global warming potential from energy use
The chart summarises our progress since 2001 and in
• Ozone depletion potential from production of inhalers
comparison to our targets (per unit of sales).
• Water consumption
Targets achieved
Targets are per unit sales as compared to a 2001 baseline
100%
90%
80%
70%
2005 performance
60%
50% Target
40%
30%
20%
10%
0%
Energy warming ODP duction Water COD azardous waste
bal pro n-h
o o
Gl N
Targets achieved
2005 performance Target
Energy consumption 13% 08%
Global warming from energy 13% 08%
Ozone depletion potential from production 74% 50%
Water consumption 23% 10%
Chemical oxygen demand of wastewater 34% 30%
Non-hazardous waste disposed 27% 08%
80
)tnemevorpmI
%(7
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Environment
continued
Targets not achieved
Targets are per unit sales as compared to a 2001 baseline
100%
90%
80%
70%
60%
2005 performance
50%
Target
40%
30%
20%
10%
0%
s y e d
VOC ancillar
us
wast recycle
P o e
OD zard Wast
a
H
Targets not achieved
2005 performance Target
Volatile organic compound emissions to air 28% 30%
Ozone depletion potential from ancillary equipment 36% 100%
Hazardous waste disposed -3% 15%
Waste recycled -6% 10%
81
)tnemevorpmI
%(7
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Environment
continued
Our performance has been affected by significant business MATERIALS EFFICIENCY
changes such as outsourcing, which has reduced our
Improving the efficiency with which we convert raw
water consumption and improved wastewater quality.
materials to finished product is an important objective for
In other cases, such as solvent recovery, product transfers
environmental sustainability. It will help us to reduce our
and new product introductions have made it more difficult
consumption of natural resources, waste generation and
to achieve targets.
the cost of production. We believe we will be able to
We met the targets for energy consumed and the double material efficiency by 2010 for new processes
associated global warming potential. This is largely due to coming out of R&D Chemical Development, achieving
significant improvements in energy savings in our primary material efficiencies for active pharmaceutical ingredient
manufacturing plants, while Research and Development of 2% (i.e. 2 tonnes of active pharmaceutical ingredient
used more energy due to increased activity. for every 100 tonnes of input chemicals) for these new
processes. We will propose this as a target for the new
We missed targets for recycling and for disposal of
5-year plan.
hazardous waste (four-fifths of which is solvent).
Performance was affected by a complex mixture of Our efforts are supported by the US drug regulator, the
factors. On the one hand: Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The FDA is now
focussing on process technologies and recommends that
• Phase-out of some older products over the years (some
pharmaceutical manufacturers increase their focus on
with more steps) contributed to a reduction in solvent
manufacturing processes.
waste;
The pharmaceutical industry has tended to use much
• New products being made tend to have fewer
more raw material for every kilo of finished product than
manufacturing steps than old products, which means
other process sectors such as the agrochemicals and fine
less solvent and energy is used
chemicals industries. Pharmaceutical processes are typically
• Some sites modified their equipment to recycle solvents very complex, usually involving many separate operations
that had been received when processes were moved and often requiring relatively large amounts of solvent.
from other facilities in previous years Typically, the industry uses about 100 kg of material
However for every kilogram of active pharmaceutical ingredient
produced. That 1% material efficiency compares to about
• New products mean our pilot plants are running more
20% for fine chemicals and 50% for bulk chemicals.
and manufacturing plants will take some time to adjust
It represents a waste of valuable resources, with financial
solvent recycling operations to new solvents
as well as environmental consequences, and GSK aims
• It will take some time to adjust solvent recovery to make improvements in the future.
operations to the new products
Our approach to addressing EHS issues already includes
• And in one case a site needed to refurbish its solvent minimising the amount of material used. The FLASC green
recovery equipment and so had to dispose of solvent chemistry tool (see Product Design) includes the mass of
that would ordinarily be recovered and reused material used as part of the lifecycle assessment of
The plan for the next 10 years, with interim targets for material impacts. But Chemical Development scientists
2010, is now under construction. [link to Plan] It will be have other targets, especially quality issues and minimising
aligned with the GSK business drivers and will state the timescale for developing the manufacturing process,
aspirations to move towards environmental sustainability. which may conflict with improved material efficiency.
We have consulted internally and externally on the Plan
We have begun placing a higher priority on improving our
to ensure that it is reasonable and reflects measures which
use of materials and are bringing together R&D and
drive positive practices in the businesses and align with
manufacturing teams to increase the focus on material
stakeholders’ expectations. The extensive consultation
efficiency in the product development stage, as well as for
means that the full plan will not be ready for publication
selected existing products. We use two key measures of
until at least mid-2006.
production efficiency:
Full details of performance are shown in each section of • Mass productivity – the mass of all materials used in the
this report. process compared to the mass of product produced
827
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Environment
continued
• Reaction Mass Efficiency (RME), which gives a measure
CASE STUDY
of the efficiency of putting together the key building
blocks of a drug molecule – excluding the large Material Efficiency at Tonbridge
volumes of solvents which are normally used as a
GSK’s Research and Development site at Tonbridge, UK,
medium for the chemical reactions, and other materials
has dramatically improved the material efficiency in
which are essential to the reaction or process
developing a robust manufacturing process for an
We are already making dramatic improvements to
antiretroviral compound for treating HIV.
materials efficiency. For example, the R&D team at
Tonbridge, UK, increased production mass efficiency to The original process required substantial energy, both in
2.7% in the production of an anti-retroviral drug. The manufacturing and for dealing with waste. It also used
chart shows substantial efficiency improvements during a hazardous solvent (Dimethylformamide) and acid
the development phase of several new compounds during (Methanesulfonic). The final process, which is based on
2005. These examples demonstrate the potential for the same chemistry, does not use these hazardous
improvement, although this scale of improvement cannot materials.
be achieved in all processes. We aim to build on such
The new process increased mass efficiency from 2.2%
successes in R&D and manufacturing. The EHS Plan for
to 2.7% (an increase of 23%) because the Tonbridge
Excellence will include an improvement target for material
team identified more effective reagents – which may
efficiency for products emerging from R&D.
also be potential substitutes in other GSK processes.
The process requires 16% less energy than the original
route because the cycle time is shorter and it uses
lower processing temperatures. a reduction in
contaminated aqueous waste also results in significant
energy savings because this waste requires energy-
intensive incineration. Tonbridge estimates that the new
process requires only two-thirds of the incineration
energy for waste disposal, which at peak production
rates could avoid 600,000 kg of carbon dioxide
emissions a year – equivalent to driving an average
family car more than two million miles.
Tonbridge won first place in the Green
Chemistry/Technology section of our EHS Excellence
Awards for its work on this process.
837
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Environment
continued
Graph showing how R&D process development reduces the amount
of material needed to manufacture drugs
400
Initial process
350
300
250
200
150
100
50
0
*The mass intensity represents the number of kilograms of material to
produce one kg of product
84
ytisnetnI
ssaM
Developed process
Drug 1 Drug 2 Drug 3 Drug 47
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Environment
continued
PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP Toolkit
We address environmental issues associated with our Our Ecodesign Toolkit is used by R&D and manufacturing
products throughout their life cycle. This begins with scientists and engineers to highlight potential EHS issues
product design and continues through managing the as early in the development process as practicable. The
impacts of our manufacturing operations, including toolkit currently has five modules. Four of these were
contract manufacturing, to eventual disposal. We refer significantly revised during 2003 to make them easier
to this as product stewardship. to use, and they continue to be updated as appropriate.
In 2005 we added a guide to hazardous chemicals
This section focuses on: legislation.
• Product design – how we are incorporating
The toolkit is available on the GSK intranet and consists
environment, health and safety considerations into
of:
the design of new products
• A Green Chemistry/Technology Guide, which helps
• Pharmaceuticals in the environment – what we are
GSK scientists and engineers apply Green Chemistry
doing to understand and minimise the impact of
concepts to achieve more efficient use of resources,
pharmaceuticals released to the environment after use
reduce environment health and safety impacts,
• Specific issues with metered dose inhalers – how we minimise costs and reduce EHS impacts
are progressing against our target to eliminate the use
• materials guides, containing information on a range
of CFCs (an ozone depleting gas) from our product
of materials used within GSK operations, including
portfolio by 2010.
solvents that should be avoided. One guide covers
You can see more about other environmental issues solvent selection while a second deals with chemical
associated with our products on our Corporate base selection
Responsibility website, including the use of genetically
• a Green Packaging Guide– an assessment tool which
modified organisms, the use of natural resources, and
includes guidance and a business process for evaluating
potential impacts on biodiversity. The research and
and selecting packaging options for the Pharmaceuticals
development section of this report covers our approach
and Consumer Healthcare businesses.
to animal testing.
• FLASC(Fast Lifecycle Assessment for Synthetic
Product Design
Chemistry) – a web-based tool and process launched
We are working to incorporate environment, health in 2003 that allows bench chemists to perform a
and safety considerations into the design of new products streamlined lifecycle evaluation of the environmental
through EHS staff participation in and support for new impacts of new or existing processes based on the
product teams, and through the use of our Eco-design materials used. FLASC helps scientists and managers
Toolkit. to rapidly identify the “greenest” materials option by
comparing and benchmarking processes and routes to
In 2005 we continued to integrate the EHS Milestone
make GSK products. It identifies the materials that have
Aligned Process (MAP) into our product development
the most significant lifecycle environmental impacts and
and supply processes, including the R&D “design
provides guidance on how to reduce those impacts
for manufacture” initiative. About 500 R&D and
manufacturing staff have been trained over the past • The Chemicals Legislation Guide (CLG)is the
two years on the EHS Map Process. newest product stewardship tool. It identifies chemicals
legislation in various parts of the world aimed at
EHS involvement in the new product teams also provides
phasing out hazardous substances from routine use.
a unique opportunity to influence supply chain decisions
The CLG incorporates hazard information, volume and
and highlight systemic EHS issues early in the product
the phase of use to provide risk-based guidance about
development process. Involvement in the teams which
a variety of chemicals of concern, in a form that is easy
are responsible for products as they move from R&D to
for scientists to use.
manufacturing also means that residual EHS risks are
identified so they are managed appropriately in Each module was designed to ensure that all EHS impacts
manufacturing. of materials, processes and services are considered, from
the manufacture of the raw materials through to the
ultimate fate of products and wastes in the environment.
857
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Environment
continued
During 2005 we have been working with key R&D extensive internal consultation. The paper was approved in
groups to make the Eco-design Toolkit more compelling December 2005.
and useful to our R&D and manufacturing scientists and
We engaged with the US Interagency Task Force on
engineers.
Pharmaceuticals in the Environment, and with the UK
Pharmaceuticals in the Environment Environment Agency through PhRMA and the Association
Drugs work through active pharmaceutical ingredients of the British Pharmaceutical Industry respectively. We are
that are absorbed in the patient’s body. These materials – interacting with other governmental groups working in
including anything that is not absorbed – are eventually this area, such as the US Environmental Protection Agency
excreted through the body’s normal mechanisms and and the US Geological Survey and are establishing
enter the sewage system. Wastewater treatment plants relationships with groups working on this issue in Europe.
remove most pharmaceutical residues, but small
GSK scientists who had been part of the team of experts
concentrations do end up in rivers or in the sea. In areas
at an international scientific workshop in 2003 on human
without wastewater treatment, higher concentrations
pharmaceuticals in the environment co-authored a
enter the environment.
number of chapters in a book: Human Pharmaceuticals:
Pharmaceuticals have been detected in surface, ground Assessing the impacts on aquatic ecosystems, published
and drinking waters in the US and Europe. This has raised in 2005. This work provides a roadmap for industry,
concerns about potential impacts on people, animals and government and academia for research in this area.
the environment, eg: contributing to antibiotic resistance;
We have worked with PhRMA to develop a database of
feminisation by oestrogens; the effects of highly potent
scientific literature on the impacts of pharmaceuticals on
drugs on environmental organisms; the presence of anti-
aquatic life. We have also collaborated to prepare detailed
depressants in drinking water; the effects on wildlife of
human health and environmental risk assessments on
veterinary drugs such as pain killers. Regulators are now
several frequently-detected pharmaceuticals
acting on these concerns. For example, the Swedish
(carbamazepine, aspirin, paracetamol, ibuprofen and
authorities now require additional information to classify
naproxen). This work is part of on-going PhRMA research
pharmaceuticals by environmental impacts, the European
to improve understanding and provide data needed to
Union is proposing more extensive environmental testing
prioritize further investigation.
for product registrations, while others are investigating
mitigation measures such as take-back schemes, water We continued comprehensive environmental risk
treatment upgrades, and labelling revisions. assessments using the PhATE™ model for the US and
the GREAT-ER model for Europe for about 35 active
GSK has developed business processes to ensure that we
pharmaceutical ingredients. We developed Allowable Daily
carry out appropriate environmental tests. Environmental
Intake levels for human consumption through drinking
risk assessments are part of the approval process for new
water and fish consumption, as well as No-Effects Levels
drugs in the EU and US, so we provide regulatory agencies
for aquatic organisms. We can make quantitative risk
with assessments to evaluate and allow for mitigation of
assessments by comparing these with predicted
any potential environmental impacts.
environmental concentrations.
We also work with other pharmaceutical companies,
These assessments will be published on our website
universities and research groups to develop the science
and in the peer-reviewed scientific literature. The
and methodologies to assess the environmental risks
underlying environmental fate and effects test data for
of pharmaceuticals in the environment and increase
pharmaceutically active components of GSK-marketed
understanding of such risks. For example, in the US,
products are now being embedded in Safety Data Sheets
GSK has been involved with the Pharmaceutical Research
(SDS). These are available on our website at www.msds-
and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA) in developing
gsk.com
the PhATE (Pharmaceutical Assessment and Transport
Evaluation) model based on specific local hydrology The risk assessments carried out to date indicate that our
and population patterns. products do not appear to pose an appreciable risk for
humans or the environment based on current methods
Action in 2005
for ascertaining effect levels. But we continue to monitor
We finalised the position paper on pharmaceuticals in the
the latest scientific studies and findings to improve our risk
environment which was developed in 2004, after
assessments in this area.
867
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Environment
continued
Metered Dose Inhalers The Montreal Protocol bans the production of CFCs but it
Metered dose inhalers (MDIs) are used to deliver the main exempts a number of “essential uses” which include
forms of treatment for asthma sufferers. They are MDIs. Nevertheless we plan to eliminate the use of CFCs
pressurised, hand-held devices that use propellants to from our worldwide product portfolio by 2010. We are
deliver doses of medication to patients’ lungs. They were committed to stop making CFC devices for developed
first introduced in the 1950s and CFCs were traditionally country markets by the end of 2006 and we will not
used as the propellant because they are non-toxic, non- request any more essential use CFC allocation for the US
reactive, non-flammable, and do not have any odour or or the EU after 2005.
taste.
We now offer a selection of alternatives in most countries.
When a patient uses the MDI, the propellant is released The main alternative propellant we use is HFC 134a,
into the atmosphere. In 2005, 198 thousand kilograms of which does not affect ozone but does have high global
CFC propellant were released when patients used our warming potential.
products in the EU and US (we do not have data for the
We have also invested heavily in dry powder delivery
rest of the world). A much smaller proportion of CFCs –
systems that do not use CFCs or HFCs. We estimate that
51 thousand kilograms – escaped to air during production
we have invested more than £550 million ($1 billion) on
of inhalers worldwide (see ozone depleting substances).
new plant and R&D for CFC-alternatives since we
identified this as an issue in the 1980s.
Ozone depletion potential from patient use of metered dose inhalers
2.0
1.5
1.0
0.5
0.0
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005
87
)tnelaviuqe
11-CFC
gk
noillim(
Ozone depletion potential from patient
use of metered dose inhalers
Year ODP
2001 1.900
2002 1.500
2003 0.782
2004 0.464
2005 0.198
Note to Ozone Depletion Potential Charts
We report ozone depletion potential in CFC-11
equivalents as defined by the United Nations
Environment Programme (UNEP) Ozone Secretariat.
The data only include EU and US.7
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Environment
continued
ENERGY AND GLOBAL WARMING POTENTIAL Note to Global Warming Charts
An increase in greenhouse gases in the atmosphere is
Our global warming impact from energy is calculated
thought by many scientists to be causing a rise in the
using conversion factors from the World Business
earth’s temperature, known as “global warming”. Burning
Council For Sustainable Development (WBCSD)/World
fossil fuels for heat and power releases carbon dioxide
Resources Initiative (WRI) Greenhouse Gas Protocol
(CO ) – the most significant greenhouse gas.
2 Initiative, September 2001, its Stationary and Mobile
In 2001 we set a target for 2005 to reduce the global Combustion Workbooks, and the Intergovernmental
warming potential of energy per unit sales by 8%. We Panel on Climate Change (1996).
more than met this target and achieved a 13% reduction
We use conversion factors from the UK Department
per unit sales, as we report in the energy section.
for Environment Food and Rural Affairs to calculate
GSK’s global warming impact comes mainly from the CO from business air travel and air freight.
2
energy used in our facilities (manufacturing, R&D and
We will investigate and assess the use of updated
office sites) which accounts for two-thirds of our carbon
conversion factors for energy beginning in 2006.
dioxide emissions. This is where we are concentrating
efforts to reduce emissions, although we are also working Energy Use From our Facilitiesincludes all energy
on emissions from transport, and compounds we use in consumed at GSK facilities in the form of electricity and
our products. steam purchased and fuels burned in fixed combustion
equipment on site, including emergency generators.
We use compounds that contribute to global warming
Figures include fuels used to generate steam and
in producing metered dose inhalers and in some ancillary
electricity on-site but not fuel for on-site transport.
equipment. Compounds which contribute to global
The energy consumption section of this report includes
warming are also released when patients use metered
a breakdown of energy data.
dose inhalers. They include CFCs and HCFCs (which also
deplete the ozone layer) and HFCs. We report emissions Transportincludes business travel by air (including
of ozone depleting compounds in the ozone depletion transatlantic flights between the US and UK, flights
section. See also product stewardship for more about the within the EU and US for routine business activities, and
use of ozone depleting compounds in our products. flights originating in the UK to large group events such
as sales conventions), business travel by road (including
Carbon dioxide and methane from waste treatment and
company-owned vehicle fleets, primarily our global sales
fermentation also account for 6% to our global warming
fleet), and product freight by air. The increase in global
impact.
warming potential from transport since 2001 is mainly
We will continue working to minimise energy use and because we have improved our reporting systems to
emissions in the face of significant challenges. Expected more comprehensively collect transport data. For
growth in new products will require additional equipment example, the 2001 data did not include business air
which will require additional energy. We will work to travel within the EU and US and did not include UK
balance this growth by continuing to find opportunities and international sales fleet travel.
for greater efficiencies in new and existing facilities and
The data do not include employee travel to work. We
operations. As a result, we expect energy use and related
do not collect data for flights originating in the US to
CO emissions to reduce by 1% per unit sales each year
2 large group events or for other modes of business
until 2010.
travel including rail and bus. We do not calculate CO
2
Performance emissions from road, rail or sea freight transport because
Global warming potential decreased in 2005 by 1% our central data collection system is not as robust in
(compared to 2004) and 25% since 2001. these areas and the impacts are small when compared
to those of air freight transport. The transport section
of this report includes a breakdown of transport data.
The ozone depletion data does not include CFCs
released from patients’ use of metered dose inhalers.
Otheris CO equivalents from waste treatment and
2
fermentation.
887
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Environment
continued
Global warming potential
4000
3500
3000
2500
2000
1500
1000
500
0
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005
89
)tnelaviuqe
2OC
gk
noillim(
Operations energy
Transport energy
Compounds*
Other**
Global warming potential
Year Operations Transport Compounds* Other** Total
2001 1903 124 1339 145 3510
2002 1844 179 968 170 3162
2003 1833 178 619 146 2775
2004 1747 206 567 138 2657
2005 1759 232 488 155 2634
* compounds that contribute to global warming
** includes waste treatment and fermentation7
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Environment
continued
Energy Consumption Emissions trading
Energy use from our facilities accounts for two-thirds of A number of our UK sites participate in the government's
GSK’s global energy consumption. In 2005, we used 19 emissions trading scheme (ETS) - helping us to gain
million gigajoules of energy which produced emissions of experience in carbon trading. The UK ETS is a voluntary
1,759 million kg CO2. We bought 43% of our energy as scheme which rewards companies with lower energy taxes
electricity and a small amount (about 1%) as municipal if they improve energy efficiency. Sites that keep emissions
steam or hot water. We generated the rest at our sites. below an agreed target can “bank” the spare credits to
help comply with limits in subsequent years, or they can
In 2005 we consulted, inside and outside the company, on
sell the credits to other participants in the scheme. We
a position statement on our future use of energy. This was
achieved the required emissions in the target year, 2004
drafted in 2004 in response to stakeholder feedback that
and are on course for the next target year, 2006.
energy use and its impact on global warming are key
concerns. The draft position sets out a strategy for energy The European Union trading scheme came into force at
efficiency, renewable energy and emissions trading. the start of 2005. The first phase runs from 2005 to 2007
and sites with greater than 20 megawatts of installed
We continued to work on energy efficiency initiatives in
combustion capacity are required to participate. In total,
2005, as demonstrated by the following site projects:
16 GSK sites will be regulated under this scheme. Our
• Stevenage, UK – installed solar-powered street lights performance in 2005 has been verified by external
auditors and although some sites have exceeded their cap,
• Port Fairy, Australia – assessed wind turbine and
we anticipate that overall we will have surplus carbon
bioenergy potential
credits under this scheme. We plan to bank some of these
• Nashik, India – installed solar heating for canteen hot credits to help us comply with future limits, and expect to
water trade the remainder of the credits.
• Research Triangle Park, US – increased its sponsorship Performance
level in the state green power programme, which will
Energy consumption (excluding transport)
add more than 700,000 kWh of renewable energy to
Total energy consumption increased by 2% from 2004
North Carolina's power supply
to 2005 (but decreased by 8% since 2001). Energy
• Zebulon, US – saved energy by better control of consumption per unit sales decreased by 4% from 2004
laboratory lighting, introducing motion-activated to 2005 and 13% since 2001, so we have met our 2005
lighting and reducing the temperature of the office target of an 8% reduction per unit sales since 2001.
buildings by 2 degrees
Global Manufacturing Supply (GMS) and Research and
• US Pharma and R&D Site Operations – created the Development (R&D) have the greatest impact on GSK’s
Strategic Energy Leadership Council to bring together energy consumption profile. They account for 59% and
managers with a common interest in energy 26% of GSKs energy consumption respectively. In 2005
management to provide leadership on energy matters. R&D used almost 4% more energy because it is expanding
The Council has implemented energy and utilities as products move through the R&D pipeline. This is
initiatives that have saved in excess of $2 million, partially offset by energy efficiency initiatives to keep the
including an Energy Conservation Tracking database increase in energy use to a minimum. Energy managers
and Energy Technology Workshops are working on projects to improve energy efficiency so
• Suzhou, China – modified the chilled water system that the expanded activity will not require an equivalent
to avoid using the chiller when the air temperature is increase in energy use.
low enough to ensure cool water. This has saved an Our Primary Supply & Antibiotics group within GMS
estimated 550,000 kWh of electricity in a year. reduced its total energy use by more than a third since
2001 – the greatest reduction of any GSK supply group or
operation over the same time period. This significant
reduction was the result of a focus on energy efficiency
and a coordinated effort to identify and implement site-
specific programmes at the sites in that supply group.
907
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Environment
continued
Energy consumption (excluding transport)
25
20
15
10
5
0
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005
91
)seluojagig
noillim(
100%
100%
94% 92% 91%
90%
88%
80%
70%
60%
50%
40%
30% Target
Per unit sales as percentage
20% of 2001 baseline (RH axis)
Non-transport fuels
10%
Electricity purchased
Steam purchased
0%
Energy consumption (excluding transport)
Year Steam Electric Non-transport fuels Total
2001 0.3 8.1 12.3 20.7
2002 0.1 8.3 11.7 20.0
2003 0.2 8.3 11.4 19.9
2004 0.2 8.0 10.7 18.8
2005 0.2 8.2 10.7 19.27
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Environment
continued
Energy consumption by business (excluding transport)
1% Other
28% Primary supply and antibiotics
5% Commercial
8% Biologicals
10% Regional Pharma supply
11% New product
and global supply
26% Research and Development
11% Consumer Healthcare supply
Primary supply and antibiotics 5.3
New product and global supply 2.1
Regional Pharma supply 1.9
Consumer Healthcare supply 2.1
Biologicals 1.5
Research and Development 5.0
Commercial 1.0
Other 0.3
Total 19.2
(million gigajoules)
927
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Environment
continued
Global warming potential from energy
CASE STUDY
Total global warming potential from energy use at our
facilities increased less than 1% from 2004 to 2005 but Saving energy by using waste methane
decreased by 8% since 2001. Global warming potential
GSK's consumer healthcare site at Rajahmundry,
per unit sales decreased 5% since 2004 (13% since 2001)
India, has captured methane generated by anaerobic
– meaning we have more than met our 2005 target of an
digestion of wastewater sludge, which was previously
8% reduction per unit sales since 2001.
wasted, and now uses it instead of liquefied petroleum
Sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxides gas (LPG) in the site canteen. The “USE MEthane”
In 2005, 87,842 kilograms of NOx and 364,014 kilograms [correct double CAP] project, which was completed in
of SO2 were emitted from sites with coal-fired power. March 2005, has reduced the risk from storing LPG
cylinders as well as conserving resources, saving money
and eliminating waste.
Note to Energy Charts
Methane is generated by the factory’s effluent
Energy consumption at our facilities is defined as all
treatment plant. Previously, the majority of this highly
energy consumed in the form of electricity and steam
flammable gas was burnt through a flare stack, with
purchased and fuels burned in fixed combustion
some used in the production of distilled water. The USE
equipment on site, including emergency generators.
MEthane project examined how the gas could be put
Figures include fuels used to generate steam and
to productive use and identified canteen fuel as the
electricity on-site but not fuel for on-site transport.
best solution.
The global warming potential from energy use at our
The factory laid a pipeline from the anaerobic digestion
facilities is calculated using conversion factors from the
to the canteen, and bought new stoves adapted to
World Business Council For Sustainable Development
burn methane rather than LPG.
(WBCSD) / World Resources Initiative (WRI) Greenhouse
Gas Protocol Initiative, September 2001, its Stationary The project has reduced the amount of LPG used in
and Mobile Combustion Workbooks, and the the site’s canteen by 80%, saving 255 cylinders of gas
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (1996). a year, worth more than £1,000. Storing fewer LPG
cylinders has also improved safety, significantly reducing
The NOX and SO2 are calculated from the coal used at
the risk of an explosion.
the only two GSK facilities(in India) that use coal, using
conversion factors from the National Atmospheric USE MEthane was awarded first place in the EHS
Emissions Inventory (UK national methodology). Initiative – Environment category of our CEO's EHS
Excellence Awards.
937
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Environment
continued
Global warming potential from energy (excluding transport)
2000
1500
1000
500
0
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005
94
)tnelaviuqe
2OC
gk
noillim(
100%
100%
94% 92% 92%
87%
90%
80%
70%
60%
50%
40%
Target
30%
Per unit sales as percentage
20% of 2001 baseline (RH axis)
Non-transport fuels
10%
Electricity purchased
Steam purchased
0%
Global warming potential from energy
(excluding transport)
Year Steam Electric Non-transport fuels Total
2001 37 1109 757 1903
2002 9 1121 714 1844
2003 11 1130 692 1833
2004 11 1086 649 1747
2005 14 1088 657 17597
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Environment
continued
Global warming potential from energy (excluding transport) by business
1% Other
4% Biologicals
28% Research and Development
6% Commercial
10% New product
and global supply
11% Regional Pharma supply
12% Consumer Healthcare supply
28% Primary supply and antibiotics
Primary supply & antibiotics 486
New product and global supply 173
Regional Pharma supply 189
Consumer Healthcare supply 214
Biologicals 62
Research and Development 503
Commercial 112
Other 20
Total 1759
(million kg CO2 equivalent)
957
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Environment
continued
Transport We encourage employees to use video and
We estimate that transport accounts for 9% of our teleconferencing where possible to reduce air travel.
total global warming impact. In 2005 we emitted Virtual meeting software is available to employees for
approximately 232 million kilograms of CO from making presentations and collaborative working. On
2
transport. average, GSK employees conduct 450 video meetings,
30,000 teleconferences and 29,000 virtual meetings per
Business air travel accounts for almost half (48%) of
month.
our travel-related CO emissions. In 2005, employees
2
travelled a total of almost 800 million kilometres by plane Performance
(a decrease of 2% since 2004) – resulting in 112 million Total global warming potential from transport increased
kg of CO emissions. This includes transatlantic flights by 13% in 2005 and 88% since 2001. The increase since
2
between the US and UK, and flights within the EU and US 2001 is mainly because we have improved our reporting
for routine business activities, as well as travel originating systems to collect more comprehensive transport data.
in the UK related to large group events such as sales For example, the 2001 data did not include business air
conventions. travel within the EU and US, and it did not include the UK
and international sales fleets. We believe we are still
In 2005, our global sales fleet drove a total of over 850
underestimating our global warming potential from
million kilometres on business travel – resulting in 102
transport because we do not have a robust system to
million kg of CO2.
collect group air travel not originating in the UK.
In addition to business travel, we also transport products
from our manufacturing plants to distributors. In 2005,
GSK products were transported a total of 195 million Note to Transport Chart
kilometres – the majority (82%) by air freight. We
Data for business air travel includes transatlantic flights
estimate that the air freight resulted in 19 million kg
between the US and UK, flights within the EU and US
of CO2. This 37% increase in 2005 is due to:
for routine business activities, and flights originating in
• improved data collection the UK to large group events such as sales conventions.
• continued business growth Data for business travel by road is primarily our global
sales fleet. We do not collect data for other modes of
• increased sourcing from China
business travel including rail and bus.
• a rise in clinical trials conducted outside the US and UK
The CO from air freight covers all global routes. We
We have launched a number of initiatives to reduce 2
do not calculate CO emissions from road, rail or sea
the impact of transporting products. They include 2
freight transport because our central data collection
consolidating freight shipments so pharmaceutical and
system is not as robust in these areas and the impacts
consumer products are transported together, consolidating
are small when compared to those of air freight
shipping points, and making more use of round tripping
transport.
(managing inbound freight trucks so they do not return
empty). We also convert air transport to sea transport We use conversion factors from the UK Department for
where possible. Environment Food and Rural Affairs to calculate CO
2
from business air travel and air freight.
We have “green travel plans” at a number of sites to
encourage employees to reduce the environmental impact
of their travel to work. For example, at GSK House in
Brentford, UK, privileged parking spaces are given to car-
sharers and drivers of fuel efficient cars, buses run to and
from the local train station, while changing rooms and
showers are provided for cyclists as well as discounts for
bicycle equipment and repairs.
967
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Environment
continued
Global warming potential from transport
250
200
150
100
50
Business travel by road
Business travel by air
Product freight by air
0
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005
97
)tnelaviuqe
2OC
gk
noillim(
Global warming potential from transport
Year Freight Business air Business road Total
2001 19 71 33 124
2002 13 92 75 179
2003 13 95 70 178
2004 14 114 78 206
2005 19 112 102 2327
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Environment
continued
WATER
CASE STUDY
Water is a valuable natural resource that needs to
be conserved and protected from pollution. Water Water conservation at Thasne, India
conservation is particularly important in areas where
GSK’s site at Thane, near Mumbai in India,
water shortages are common.
manufactures medicines for the local market. Thane
GSK uses water in manufacturing (eg for processes, introduced measures to conserve and minimise water
products, cooling and cleaning) and for general site use in 2004, including rainwater harvesting, improving
uses including drinking, food services and sanitation. efficiency and installing water saving technologies.
The amount of water our sites use varies according to Between 2003 and 2005, the site reduced water
the activities that take place. Primary supply sites – consumption from 200,000 kilolitres per year to
those that manufacture active pharmaceutical ingredients 160,000 kilolitres per year.
– are typically heavy users of water, as are sites that
The site is located in a monsoon region, meaning
manufacture vaccines or produce drinks. Those involved
it experiences irregular rainfall and water shortages
in research and development and commercial sites
during the dry season. This problem is amplified by
typically use less.
increasing urbanisation and agricultural development.
The GSK water standard requires sites to minimise water Thane receives water from the municipal supply and
use and re-use water whenever feasible. Sites are required uses it for cooling, generating steam in the boiler, and
to minimise the potential environmental impacts of in the gardens.
discharging wastewater.
Thane installed rainwater catchment devices on roofs
Water Use near the site’s boiler and cooling towers. The rainwater
is pumped to storage tanks ready for immediate use,
In 2005, we used 22 million cubic metres of water. This
or pumped into a borewell to replenish the water
is about average for the industry, based on benchmarking
table. As a result, water consumption during the peak
with other major pharmaceutical companies. We source
monsoon month of September dropped from 16,000
water mainly from municipal water supplies (59%), wells
kilolitres in 2003 to 12,000 kilolitres in 2004.
or boreholes (40%), with a small amount from other
sources. Several measures were introduced to save water,
including a steam recovery device for the boiler,
Total water consumption increased by less than 4% since
prohibiting hose cleaning of plant floors, installing
2004 (but is down 19% since 2001). Water consumption
photo-sensors in the urinals and installing foot
per unit sales decreased by 3% since 2004 (23% since
operated taps in the site’s canteen.
2001). This means we met our 2005 target to cut water use
per unit sales by 10%. This is mainly due to consolidating Thane installed a drip irrigation system in the garden
primary manufacturing sites following the merger in 2000, and the sprinkler system was changed to reduce the
and outsourcing some fermentation processes. amount of water lost through evaporation. Other
changes to the garden included altering the planting
We have introduced water conservation measures.
season to coincide with wetter months, watering plants
For example, our site at Thane, India, won one of the
during the early morning and allowing the grass to
CEO's EHS Excellence Awards for its water conservation
grow longer so it holds in soil moisture.
measures (see below) and similar projects were submitted
by sites in Pakistan, India, Indonesia, Poland and Canada. Thane was awarded third place in the environment
category of the CEO's EHS Excellence Awards for its
Note to Water Use Charts water conservation improvements.
Water use includes water sourced from wells/boreholes,
municipal and other sources (mainly wastewater from
external industrial sources).
The data include water used in manufacturing
processes and for general sites uses, as well as water
incorporated into products
987
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Environment
continued
Water consumption
30
25
20
15
10
5
0
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005
Water consumption
Year Wells/boreholes Municipal Other* Total
2001 11.6 15.2 0.0 26.8
2002 10.0 14.3 0.0 24.3
2003 9.9 13.2 0.1 23.1
2004 8.0 12.9 0.1 21.0
2005 8.6 12.8 0.4 21.7
* mainly wastewater from external industrial sources
99
)sertem
cibuc
noillim(
100%
100%
88%
90%
82%
79%
77% 80%
70%
60%
50%
40%
Target
30%
Per unit sales as percentage
20% of 2001 baseline (RH axis)
Wells/boreholes
10%
Municipal sources
Other*
0%7
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Environment
continued
Water consumption by business
3% Commercial
4% Other 34% Primary supply and antibiotics
7% Biologicals
7% New product
and global supply
12% Research
and Development
13% Regional Pharma supply
20% Consumer Healthcare supply
Primary supply and antibiotics 7.4
New product and global supply 1.6
Regional Pharma supply 2.8
Consumer Healthcare supply 4.4
Biologicals 1.5
Research and Development 2.6
Commercial 0.6
Other 1.0
Total 21.7
(million cubic metres)
1007
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Environment
continued
Wastewater
Note to Wastewater and COD Charts
In 2005, we generated 17 million cubic metres of
Wastewater volume includes all manufacturing and site
wastewater from our manufacturing processes and various
process wastewater as well as sanitary and food service
site operations. This is 1% less than 2004 (20% since
wastewater.
2001). The decrease is mainly due to consolidating
primary manufacturing sites following the merger in Wastewater quality is measured by Chemical Oxygen
2000, and outsourcing some fermentation processes. Demand (COD) which is a measure of the oxygen
We reused, recovered or recycled 6% of total wastewater. required to chemically oxidise organic and inorganic
compounds present in the water.
GSK’s EHS Standards require sites to reuse water
whenever feasible and ensure that all wastewater is The COD is measured when wastewater leaves our
treated and discharged in a way that minimises adverse sites, following any on-site treatment.
environmental impacts. Most sites discharge wastewater
to municipal treatment facilities either with or without
prior treatment. Some large sites, especially primary
manufacturing sites, have their own on-site wastewater
treatment systems. Some sites are permitted to discharge
wastewater direct to sea.
All five of our sites in India have implemented “zero
wastewater” discharge programmes – reusing and
recycling all wastewater. They use processed wastewater
for watering plants and trees, which help provide shade,
improve the appearance of the site, and are also a source
of food for employees. They do not discharge any
wastewater to water bodies or to municipal sewers.
Our site in Xochimilco, Mexico uses processed wastewater
for watering gardens around the site, washing vehicles
and windows and other uses not requiring drinking water.
Our sites in Turkey and the Philippines also re-use all
wastewater.
We assess the quality of our wastewater by measuring the
chemical oxygen demand (COD) – the oxygen required to
chemically oxidise organic and inorganic compounds
present in the water. (The lower the COD, the cleaner the
water.)
Total COD decreased by 7% compared to 2004 (30%
since 2001). Most of the reduction is due to our site at
Ulverston, UK, outsourcing fermentation processes. COD
per unit sales decreased by 13% since 2004 and 34%
since 2001 – meaning we have achieved our 2005 target
of a 30% reduction per unit sales since 2001.
1017
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Environment
continued
Wastewater volume
25
20
15
10
5
0
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005
Wastewater volume
Year Sea Estuary Sewer Other* Total
2001 3.8 2.1 9.9 4.9 20.7
2002 3.5 2.4 8.1 3.6 17.7
2003 3.4 1.8 7.0 4.1 16.4
2004 3.2 1.1 7.9 4.6 16.7
2005 3.4 1.1 8.1 4.0 16.6
* includes direct to river and reused/recovered/recycled
102
)sertem
cibuc
noillim(
Direct to sea
Direct to estuary
Municipal sewer
Other*7
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Environment
continued
Wastewater volume by business
2% Other
2% Commercial
6% New product
and global supply 39% Primary supply and antibiotics
11% Regional Pharma supply
9% Biologicals
14% Research and
Development
17% Consumer Healthcare supply
Primary supply and antibiotics 6.4
New product and global supply 0.9
Regional Pharma supply 1.9
Consumer Healthcare supply 2.8
Biologicals 1.4
Research and Development 2.3
Commercial 0.4
Other 0.4
Total 16.6
(million cubic metres)
1037
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Environment
continued
Wastewater chemical oxygen demand
100%
30 100%
90%
85% 90%
25
76% 80%
66%
70%
20
60%
15 50%
40%
10
30%
20%
5
10%
0 0%
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005
104
)gk
noillim(
Target
Per unit sales as percentage
of 2001 baseline (RH axis)
Direct to sea
Direct to estuary
Municipal sewer
Other*
Wastewater chemical oxygen demand
Year Sea Estuary Sewer Other* Total
2001 13.0 8.1 6.0 0.2 27.3
2002 10.7 5.2 6.9 2.7 25.5
2003 11.3 4.7 7.1 1.3 24.3
2004 11.4 3.0 5.9 0.2 20.5
2005 11.4 2.3 5.2 0.2 19.1
* includes reused/recovered/recycled, on-site irrigation7
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Environment
continued
Wastewater chemical oxygen demand by business
1% Research and Development
1% New product and global supply
2% Biologicals
2% Regional Pharma supply
83% Primary supply and antibiotics
4% Other
7% Consumer
Healthcare supply
Primary supply and antibiotics 15.9
New product and global supply 0.2
Regional Pharma supply 0.5
Consumer Healthcare supply 1.3
Biologicals 0.4
Research and Development 0.1
Commercial 0.0
Other 0.8
Total 19.1
(million kg)
1057
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Environment
continued
WASTE GSK and its heritage companies have spent more then
£100m cleaning up more than 50 sites in the US over the
Our research, production and commercial activities all
last 20 years. We are continuing to clean up 25 of these
produce waste, which we aim to manage safely and
sites. Most of them are waste disposal sites where GSK is
responsibly. We manage waste from when it is generated
one of several responsible parties.
to its final disposal. We want to eliminate waste where
we can, reduce it where we cannot, re-use materials if We continue to work on reducing waste, especially
possible, recycle other waste and dispose of any remaining hazardous waste. One of our material efficiency
material sensitively. aspirations is to minimise the number of solvents used or
use smaller amounts so we don’t have so much to dispose
We generate different kinds of waste in different parts of
of. Our Operational Excellence initiative, which started in
the business:
2001, has a strong focus on elimination of all types of
• Production – hazardous wastes such as solvents and waste from manufacturing processes. This is reflected in
other chemicals. applications for the CEO's EHS Excellence awards – 11
• R&D and quality laboratories – small amounts of projects in 2005 involved eliminating or recycling waste.
chemicals including products and intermediates, as well
Our performance on waste is covered in the following
as broken glassware and plastics
pages.
• Offices – paper and other standard commercial waste
Hazardous Waste
• Renovations take place in production, office and lab More than 80% of our hazardous waste consists of
space which produce non-routine waste such as solvents that are used in production processes. We also
obsolete equipment, office furniture, structural dispose of some lubricants and fluorescent lights, while
materials research waste includes animal carcases. Our labs generate
Most of the active ingredients in our pharmaceutical very small quantities of radioactive waste, which is highly
products are manufactured using chemical processes. regulated.
This means that a significant proportion of our waste is
Regulations vary widely around the world, but our first
classified as hazardous because it contains solvents and
choice for solvents is to re-use or recycle material. When
chemicals used in these processes. We report hazardous
this is not possible the main disposal option for solvents is
waste separate from non-hazardous, and identify non-
incineration. We aim to use incineration with energy
routine waste such as construction and demolition rubble
recovery wherever possible.
because the volumes depend on building activity and tend
to be inconsistent. The main focus of our work to improve material efficiency
is to reduce the total amount of solvents we use.
Most production facilities segregate their wastes, re-use
what they can, send what they can for recycling, and In 2005, we disposed of 68 million kg of hazardous waste
incinerate or landfill anything else. Incineration is usually (excluding demolition and construction waste). This is
the preferred choice for dealing with solvents that can’t mostly solvents (81%), the rest being general site waste
be reused or recycled. Sites try to use waste management (18%) and chemical, biological or radioactive waste (1%).
companies which use incinerators that recover energy
In 2005, 44% of hazardous waste disposed was
from burning the materials.
incinerated with energy recovery, 54% was incinerated
We aim to use reputable waste handling companies for without energy recovery. The remaining waste was
waste disposal. We require disposal contractors to comply disposed to licensed landfill sites.
with our EHS requirements and local regulations. Our
internal EHS audit team audits waste disposal contractors
to make sure they handle waste appropriately.
In the past, some waste and chemicals handling practices
(which are no longer followed) contaminated land and
groundwater. We are continuing to clean up these sites to
deal with health and environmental hazards.
1067
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Environment
continued
Performance
Note to Hazardous Waste Charts
Total hazardous waste disposed decreased by 8% since
2004 (but is up by 9% since 2001). Hazardous waste Although the external definition of what constitutes a
disposed per unit sales decreased by 14% since 2004 (but waste varies, for GSK reporting purposes a material is
increased 3% since 2001) – meaning we did not meet our considered a waste if it is no longer fit for its originally
2005 target of a 15% reduction per unit sales since 2001. intended purpose.
Our previous trend of reducing hazardous waste per unit Hazardous waste disposed includes disposal to landfill
sales was reversed in 2004 by a combination of factors. and incineration either on or off GSK property.
GSK’s hazardous waste is mostly solvents and one plant Incineration with energy recovery means burning the
scheduled for closure had to dispose of redundant solvent material and using the resulting energy. Incineration
stocks. This had a one off impact on our data. In addition, without energy recovery means burning the material
changes to production at other plants included bringing without using the energy or heat generated. Hazardous
in-house processes that were previously undertaken by waste disposed does NOT include recycling on-site or
contract manufacturers and moving existing processes off-site or non-routine waste.
among sites. Our engineers continued to assess how to
For consistent reporting, GSK considers a waste to be
optimise the new and moved processes to reduce solvent
hazardous if it exhibits any of a number of properties as
use and increase recycling and in 2005 we resumed the
defined by the Basel Convention in 1989 of the United
downward trend.
Nations Environment Programme (UNEP). Included in
Solvent recovery was affected by several factors in 2005: these properties are flammability, explosivity, water or
air reactivity, corrosivity, oxidising potential, acute or
• we had to repair solvent recovery equipment at two
chronic toxicity, ecotoxicity or infection. In addition,
sites, which resulted in complete shut-down of the
because of their nature and potential impact on
recovery operation. No commercial recovery operation
research and development activities, radioactive wastes
was available, so solvent normally recovered was
are defined as hazardous. Bioengineered and
incinerated instead
biohazardous waste is included in hazardous waste.
• new products using new solvents continue to come
on line. It can take time for sites to gear up solvent A waste is considered to be non-hazardous if it does
recovery and recycling for these new materials not exhibit any of the hazardous properties noted
above.
• pilot plants, which are producing our new products as
they go into clinical trials, work with such a wide range
of different solvents that recycling is not practical
• in 2004 some of our primary sites had difficulty
handling solvents received as a result of moving
processes between sites. This year some of the sites
began to recover from these moves and improved their
solvent recovery, thereby decreasing the amount of
solvents disposed
• one new site which we acquired in 2004 contributed
an additional 3 million kg to the total of solvent
recycled this year.
1077
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Environment
continued
Hazardous waste disposed
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005
108
)gk
noillim(
119%
120%
103%
110%
100%
96% 100%
90%
93%
80%
70%
60%
50%
40% Target
Per unit sales as percentage
30% of 2001 baseline (RH axis)
Incinerated with energy
20% recovery
Incinerated without energy
10%
recovery
Landfill
0%
Hazardous waste disposed
Year With recovery Without recovery Landfill Total
2001 28.7 30.2 3.4 62.3
2002 28.4 30.7 2.8 61.9
2003 26.8 31.9 2.2 60.8
2004 37.0 34.9 1.9 73.8
2005 30.0 36.5 1.4 67.97
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Environment
continued
Hazardous waste disposed by business
1% Commercial
2% Consumer Healthcare supply
3% New product and global supply
3% Regional Pharma supply 80% Primary supply and antibiotics
5% Biologicals
6% Research and
Development
Primary supply and antibiotics 55.2
New product and global supply 1.9
Regional Pharma supply 1.9
Consumer Healthcare supply 1.2
Biologicals 3.4
Research and Development 3.8
Commercial 0.4
Other 0.0
Total 67.8
(million kg)
1097
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Environment
continued
Hazardous waste disposed sources
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005
110
)gk
noillim(
Solvent waste
Site waste
Other*
Hazardous waste disposed sources
Year Solvent Site Other* Total
2001 50.3 12.0 0.0 62.3
2002 50.7 10.3 0.8 61.9
2003 48.7 10.5 1.8 60.9
2004 60.9 11.4 1.5 73.8
2005 54.9 12.0 1.0 67.9
* includes chemical/biological/radioactive/pharmaceutical waste7
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Environment
continued
Non-hazardous Waste
Note to Non-hazardous Waste Charts
Most non-hazardous waste is general material such as
Although the external definition of what constitutes a
office waste paper, kitchen waste and non-hazardous
waste varies, for GSK reporting purposes a material is
substances used in manufacturing. A very small part is
considered a waste if it is no longer fit for its originally
biological waste that has been treated so it is not
intended purpose.
hazardous. We do not include construction and
demolition rubble and similar material not related to day- Non-hazardous waste disposal includes disposal to
to-day operations, which we describe separately as non- landfill and incineration either on or off GSK property.
routine waste. In 2005, we disposed of 41 million kg of Incineration with energy recovery includes processes
non-hazardous waste. that result in beneficial energy or resource recovery and
includes a small amount of composting. Incineration
We continue to look for ways to reduce waste and have
without energy recovery includes processes that do not
undertaken waste management reviews at many sites.
result in beneficial energy or resource recovery. Non-
Performance hazardous waste disposed does NOT include recycling
Total non-hazardous waste was 9% lower than in 2004 on-site or off-site or non-routine waste.
(23% lower than 2001). The weight disposed per unit
Biological waste rendered non-hazardous after
sales decreased by 14% over the year (and by 27% since
treatment is considered a non-hazardous waste.
2001). This means we have considerably beaten our 2005
target of an 8% reduction per unit sales since 2001.
1117
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Environment
continued
Non-hazardous waste disposed
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005
112
)gk
noillim(
100%
100%
90%
90%
85%
80%
79%
70%
73%
60%
50%
40% Target
Per unit sales as percentage
30% of 2001 baseline (RH axis)
Incinerated with
20%
energy recovery
Incinerated without
10%
energy recovery
Landfill
0%
Non-hazardous waste disposed
Year With recovery Without recovery Landfill Total
2001 5.9 12.1 35.5 53.5
2002 8.4 9.4 31.8 49.7
2003 8.3 6.2 29.4 44.0
2004 7.8 10.1 27.5 45.3
2005 9.5 8.1 23.6 41.37
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Environment
continued
Non-hazardous waste disposed by business
2% Other
5% Biologicals
33% Consumer Healthcare supply
7% Commercial
9% Regional Pharma supply
13% New product
and global supply
15% Research and Development 16% Primary supply and antibiotics
Primary supply and antibiotics 6.8
New product and global supply 5.4
Regional Pharma supply 3.5
Consumer Healthcare supply 13.2
Biologicals 2.1
Research and Development 6.3
Commercial 3.0
Other 0.9
Total 41.3
(million kg)
1137
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Environment
continued
Non-hazardous waste disposed sources
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005
114
)gk
noillim(
Site waste
Other
Non-hazardous waste disposed sources
Year Site Other Total
2001 53.5 0.0 53.5
2002 48.1 1.6 49.7
2003 42.8 1.2 44.0
2004 44.2 1.1 45.3
2005 40.3 1.0 41.37
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Environment
continued
Recycling
We recycle hazardous and non-hazardous waste, aiming
to minimise environmental impacts as well as the cost of
materials and waste.
The largest waste component is solvent which has been
used in the manufacturing process. Some solvent is
purified on our sites and reused in the original
manufacturing process. Sometimes we sell the solvent to
commercial reprocessing companies, which we also
include in the recycling statistics. Solvent which is not
recycled in this way is usually incinerated.
Recycling non-hazardous waste such as glass or plastic
usually means sending it for reprocessing so it can be
reused to make new products.
Performance
In 2005, we recycled 278 million kg of waste (72% of the
nearly 390 million kg of waste generated). Over two-thirds
of the total waste recycled was hazardous waste, primarily
solvents. The proportion of waste recycled was 2% higher
than in 2004, but has decreased by 6% since 2001,
mainly because we have generated less waste. This means
we did not meet our 2005 target of a 10% increase in the
proportion of waste recycled since 2001.
Production changes in the last two years contributed to
more incineration of solvent waste, so we recycled a
smaller proportion. Three of our large primary
manufacturing sites are now back on track with recycling
solvent, which has reversed the decline at those sites,
although in 2005 we continued to have difficulty with
recovery at some sites.
1157
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Environment
continued
Proportion of total waste recycled
80%
75%
70%
65%
60%
55%
50%
45%
40%
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005
Proportion of total waste recycled
Year Waste recycled
2001 76%
2002 75%
2003 76%
2004 71%
2005 72%
116
)%(
110%
100% 99% 99%
93% 94% 100%
90%
80%
70%
60%
50%
40%
30%
20% Target
Percentage of 2001 baseline
10%
(RH axis)
Waste recycled
0%7
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Environment
continued
Proportion of total waste recycled by business
100%
90%
80%
70%
60%
50%
40%
30%
20%
10%
0%
Primary
as nu dp p al ny tibiotics
ew
product
g
la on bd
a l
supply
egional
Pharma supply
umer
Healthcare supply Biologicals Researc Dh ea ven ld opment Commercial Other
N R s
n
o
C
Proportion of total waste recycled by business
Primary supply and antibiotics 77%
New product and global supply 45%
Regional Pharma supply 67%
Consumer Healthcare supply 67%
Biologicals 22%
Research and Development 24%
Commercial 45%
Other 93%
117
)%(7
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Environment
continued
Total waste recycled
400
350
300
250
200
150
100
50
0
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005
118
)gk
noillim(
Hazardous
Non-hazardous
Total waste recycled
Year Hazardous Non-hazardous Total
2001 288.4 79.3 367.8
2002 255.9 85.6 341.5
2003 235.1 90.6 325.7
2004 182.4 104.0 286.4
2005 193.8 84.2 278.07
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Environment
continued
Non-Routine Waste
Non-routine waste is primarily building materials from site
demolition and construction activities and from small
remediation projects. In 2005, we disposed (via landfill or
incineration) of 37 million kg of non-routine waste, and
recycled 40 million kg.
Performance
The amount of waste fluctuates each year depending on
plant upgrades and site closures. In 2005 new building at
one of our vaccine plants accounted for nearly half of the
non-routine waste
Rather than sending this waste to landfill, the plant was
able to provide excavated soil from the building expansion
to another company to be used as clean fill.
Note to Non-Routine Waste Charts
Although the external definition of what constitutes
waste varies, for GSK reporting purposes a material is
considered a waste if it is no longer fit for its originally
intended purpose.
Non-routine waste disposal includes disposal to landfill
and incineration either on or off GSK property.
Incineration with energy recovery includes processes
that result in beneficial energy or resource recovery.
We also recycle non-routine waste whenever that is
feasible.
1197
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Environment
continued
Nonroutine waste
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005
120
)gk
noillim(
Recycled
Incinerated with energy recovery
Incinerated without energy recovery
Landfill
Nonroutine waste
Year Recycled With recovery Without recovery Landfill Total
2001 2.3 1.6 0.2 21.2 25.3
2002 14.2 0.0 0.2 15.7 30.1
2003 2.6 0.2 1.9 21.5 26.2
2004 6.8 0.1 0.2 6.6 13.7
2005 40.0 7.5 0.4 29.1 76.97
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Environment
continued
OZONE DEPLETION Performance
The ozone layer is essential to human survival because
Ozone depleting substances released Ozone
it filters out harmful ultra-violet (UV) rays from the sun.
from production activities Depletion
Ozone depleting substances (ODSs) include
chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs), hydrochlorofluorocarbons Substance Kg Factor Potential
(HCFCs) and halons. CFC11/R11 14,658 1.000 14,658
CFCs are the main ODSs we use – as the propellant gas in CFC12/R12 36,317 1.000 36,317
metered dose inhalers (MDI) for asthma sufferers. The CFC
is released when patients use the inhalers.
Total ozone depletion potential from production decreased
In 2005, 198 thousand kilograms of CFC propellant were by 13% since 2004 (72% since 2001). Ozone depletion
released when patients used our products in the EU. We potential from production per unit sales decreased by
have stopped making these products in the US and the 19% since 2004 (74% since 2001) – meaning we have
information on CFC releases from patient use is not beaten our 2005 target of a 50% reduction per unit sales
compiled outside the EU where this is not required by since 2001.
regulation. A much smaller amount of CFCs – 51
As production of CFC-containing MDIs decreases, the
thousand kilograms – were released during worldwide
amount of CFC lost during production also declines. We
production. We now offer a selection of alternatives to
will no longer manufacture CFC-containing MDIs in the
ODS-containing inhalers in most countries and plan to
US after 2005 and in Europe after 2006. We will continue
eliminate the use of ODSs from our product portfolio by
to manufacture them in Bangladesh, China, India and
2010. See metered dose inhalers.
Pakistan until the end of 2010.
We also use ODSs in some cooling systems and for other
ancillary uses at GSK facilities. We have switched to using
hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) in some cooling systems. HFCs Note to Ozone Depletion Potential Charts
do not deplete the ozone layer but do contribute to global
We report ozone depletion potential in CFC-11
warming. Ozone depletion potential from ancillary use per
equivalents as defined by the United Nations
unit sales decreased by 36% since 2001, meaning we
Environment Programme (UNEP) Ozone Secretariat
have missed our 2005 target to completely eliminate these
emissions. We recognise that the only way to do this is to
eliminate CFCs from cooling systems. Our new strategy
will focus on installing new equipment to achieve this. We
will set a new target in 2006 to eliminate CFC use in line
with regulations based on the Montreal Protocol.
Ozone Depleting Substances in Manufacturing
A small proportion of the CFC used as a propellant in our
Metered Dose Inhalers (MDIs) is released during the
manufacturing process. We are working to eliminate use
of ozone depleting substances in MDIs by switching to
HFC and dry powder inhalers
1217
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Environment
continued
Ozone depletion potential from production use
0.20
0.18
0.16
0.14
0.12
0.10
0.08
0.06
0.04
0.02
0.00
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005
122
)tnelaviuqe
11-CFC
gk
noillim(
100%
100%
90%
80%
64% 70%
60%
50%
37% 40%
32%
26% 30%
20% Target
Per unit sales as percentage
10%
of 2001 baseline (RH axis)
Production
0%
Ozone depletion potential from production use
Year Production
2001 0.183
2002 0.121
2003 0.072
2004 0.059
2005 0.0517
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Environment
continued
Ozone depletion potential from production use by business
20% Regional Pharma supply
80% New product and global supply
Primary supply and antibiotics 0.0
New product and global supply 40.6
Regional Pharma supply 10.4
Consumer Healthcare supply 0.0
Biologicals 0.0
Research and Development 0.0
Commercial 0.0
Other 0.0
Total 51.0
(thousand kg CFC-11 equivalent)
1237
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Environment
continued
Ozone Depleting Substances in Ancillary Total ozone depletion potential from ancillary increased by
Equipment 12% from 2004 because of equipment replacement and
We use ozone depleting substances (ODSs) primarily in maintenance at a large site. But the figure has decreased
cooling systems. We have switched to using by 32% since 2001. Ozone depletion potential from
hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) in some ancillary equipment. ancillary use per unit sales increased by 6% since 2004
HFCs do not deplete the ozone layer but do contribute to but decreased by 36% since 2001.
global warming.
We missed our 2005 target to eliminate ozone depleting
ODSs – mainly CFCs and HCFCs - are sealed inside cooling emissions from ancillary use. It has not proved possible to
systems and are only released in the event of a leak or eliminate all emissions during servicing and maintenance
during maintenance. of cooling equipment. This means that we need to
upgrade or replace equipment to use non-ozone
We will closely monitor equipment and put in place
depleting gases. New cooling systems that don’t use
recommendations on alternative refrigerants and new
ozone depleting gases are being introduced, in
equipment. We recognise that the only way to eliminate
accordance with regulatory requirements. In retrospect
the emissions is to eliminate CFC from cooling systems.
we believe the target we set was unrealistic, given the
Our new strategy will focus on replacing equipment. We
potential for improvement.
will set a new target in 2006 to eliminate CFC use in line
with regulations.
Performance Note to Ozone Depletion Potential Charts
We report ozone depletion potential in CFC-11
Ozone depleting substances released Ozone
equivalents as defined by the United Nations
from ancillary activities Depletion
Environment Programme (UNEP) Ozone Secretariat
Substance Kg Factor Potential
CFC11/R11 1,622 1.000 1,622
CFC12/R12 212 1.000 212
HFC22/R22 13,783 0.055 758
HFC123/R123 898 0.020 18
R402 96 0.055 5
R403a 112 0.055 6
R408a/FX10 473 0.055 26
R409a/FX56 12 0.048 1
R502 73 1.000 73
Methyl Bromide 480 0.600 288
1247
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Environment
continued
Ozone depletion potential from ancillary use
0.007
0.006
0.005
0.004
0.003
0.002
0.001
0.000
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005
125
)tnelaviuqe
11-CFC
gk
noillim(
149%
100%
100%
90%
80%
64% 70%
61%
60%
57%
50%
40%
30%
20% Target
Per unit sales as percentage
10%
of 2001 baseline (RH axis)
Ancillary
0%
Ozone depletion potential from ancillary use
Year Ancilliary
2001 0.0044
2002 0.0069
2003 0.0026
2004 0.0027
2005 0.00307
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Environment
continued
Ozone depletion potential from ancillary use by business
1% Biologicals
2% Other
3% Consumer Healthcare supply
10% New product
and global supply
41% Research and
Development
14% Commercial
14% Regional Pharma supply
15% Primary supply and antibiotics
Primary supply and antibiotics 0.45
New product and global supply 0.29
Regional Pharma supply 0.42
Consumer Healthcare supply 0.08
Biologicals 0.03
Research and Development 1.25
Commercial 0.42
Other 0.06
Total 3.00
(thousand kg CFC-11 equivalent)
1267
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Environment
continued
VOLATILE ORGANIC COMPOUNDS
Note to VOC Charts
We use volatile organic compounds (VOCs) mainly as
Emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOCs),
solvents in our primary manufacturing operations. In
including fugitive sources such as evaporation and
2005, we released 5 million kilograms of VOCs to the
leaks, are measured at GSK manufacturing operations
atmosphere.
and research and development facilities.
VOCs react with nitrogen oxides in the presence of
VOCs react with nitrogen oxides in the presence of
sunlight, creating ozone in the lower atmosphere. This
sunlight, creating ozone in the lower atmosphere. This
results in smog, which is a factor in human respiratory
results in smog, which is a factor in human respiratory
illness. Workplace exposure to certain VOCs can also pose
illness. We report photochemical ozone creation
a health risk.
potential (POCP) in ethylene equivalents. Conversion
Performance to ethylene equivalents is based on the European
Total VOCs emitted to air decreased by 5% in 2005 (24% Chemical Industry Council (CEFIC) “Responsible Care
since 2001). VOCs emitted to air per unit sales decreased HSE Reporting Guidelines” for VOCs (1998).
by 10% since 2004 (28% since 2001). That means we
have missed our 2005 target of a 30% reduction per unit
sales since 2001, but we achieved a substantial reduction
CASE STUDY
and only narrowly missed the target.
Reducing solvent use and waste in
We achieved reductions since 2001 due to rationalising
manufacturing operations following the merger in 2000, manufacturing
as expected when we set the target. The decrease GSK’s R&D site at Research Triangle Park, US, is
between 2004 and 2005 was due to our site at Ulverston researching a new drug for the treatment of type II
outsourcing some manufacturing. Improved data diabetes and metabolic syndrome. The site has
collection also contributed. developed a new manufacturing process for the drug
that reduces waste and solvent use, and eliminates the
Photochemical ozone creation potential decreased by 7%
use of other harmful substances.
since 2004 (23% since 2001).
Previous manufacturing processes for the drug were
time-consuming and inefficient, involving up to eight
steps with low production efficiency. The new process
developed by RTP has a number of environmental,
health and safety benefits.
The process is quicker, involving just three steps.
Solvents are needed to aid synthesis at each step, so
fewer steps mean less solvent is required. As a result,
the amount of solvent used (and VOC emissions) has
been reduced by 70%. The amount of waste produced
has also been reduced by 70%. Importantly, the new
process avoids the use of harmful alkylating agents
which are hazardous.
RTP was awarded second place in the Green
Chemistry/Technology category of our CEO's EHS
Excellence Awards for this achievement.
1277
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Environment
continued
Volatile organic compounds emitted to air
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
0
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005
128
)gk
noillim(
100%
94% 100%
91%
90%
80%
80%
72%
70%
60%
50%
40%
30%
20% Target
Per unit sales as percentage
10%
of 2001 baseline (RH axis)
VOC
0%
Volatile organic compounds emitted to air
Year VOC
2001 6.8
2002 6.6
2003 6.5
2004 5.4
2005 5.27
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Environment
continued
Volatile organic compounds emitted to air by business
1% Research and Development
2% New product and global supply
70% Primary supply and antibiotics
27% Regional Pharma supply
Primary supply and antibiotics 3.6
New product and global supply 0.1
Regional Pharma supply 1.4
Consumer Healthcare supply 0.0
Biologicals 0.0
Research and Development 0.1
Commercial 0.0
Other 0.0
Total 5.2
(million kg)
1297
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Environment
continued
Photochemical ozone creation potential
2.5
2.0
1.5
1.0
0.5
0.0
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005
130
)tnelaviuqe
enelyhte
gk
noillim(
Photochemical ozone creation potential
Year POCP
2001 2.2
2002 2.2
2003 2.2
2004 1.8
2005 1.77
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Environment
continued
BIODIVERSITY Biodiversity is managed at site level because the issues and
impacts are local. GSK sites are required to:
Maintaining the diversity of plant and animal species is
an important part of sustainability and we aim to make • identify and assess potential impacts of their activities
sure our activities do not adversely affect biodiversity. on local habitats
Protecting local habitats and wildlife and improving sites’
• act to minimize any adverse effects of their activities on
surroundings are also part of our commitment to local
important habitats
communities.
• enhance biodiversity where that is feasible
Wildlife can be threatened by new site developments
and by existing operations which affect natural habitats. • monitor their impacts to ensure action remains effective
Habitats can be severely damaged by depletion of water in protecting and enhancing local biodiversity
resources so our use of water must be particularly sensitive Here are some examples:
(See Water for more information on water management) Nabha, India, has developed a biodiversity management
Any investigation and collection of natural products can plan to develop “ecoforestry” in 27 acres of land, using
also be disruptive and needs to be carefully managed to the water discharges from the site.
minimise adverse effects. We make only limited use of Memphis, Tennessee, in the US has teamed up with the
natural products in research, but where this happens we North American Butterfly Association (NABA) to improve
aim to ensure that the investigation, collection and use the habitat and introduce species indigenous to the
of biological material for the purposes of research or adjacent President's Island.
manufacturing does not adversely affect biodiversity.
Crawley, in the UK, has worked with specialist woodland
contractors and the local Wildlife Trust to enhance an area
CASE STUDY
Working with our Ribena suppliers to improve both in the crop and on the field edges. Each farm
biodiversity has drawn up an environmental action plan. Measures
include trimming hedges less frequently and only at
GSK, and its heritage companies, have been making
certain times of the year. Hedgerows are the ‘green
Ribena for 70 years. We now buy 95% of the UK’s
veins’ of the countryside providing food, shelter and
blackcurrant crop, from 45 growers. Many of these
breeding sites for many native species. Less frequent
farmers are family businesses that have been supplying
trimming, every 2-3 years, allows hedges to grow and
berries for Ribena for generations.
produce fruit, providing food for birds, bats, small
It takes three years before a blackcurrant bush mammals and insects. Farmers also leave uncultivated
produces any fruit so it is a big investment. We buy margins around the fields, protecting hedges from
directly from the grower and agree seven year spraying, adding bat and bird boxes and planting
contracts, helping them plan ahead. new trees.
Blackcurrant farming is now mechanised with berries Other joint projects with our growers include research
shaken from the bushes by harvesting machines, rather with the UK Department of the Environment, Food
than picked by hand. This has enabled us to reduce the and Rural Affairs, to increase the vitamin C content
number of blackcurrant suppliers – and work more in Ribena.
closely with a smaller group of growers.
GSK has helped establish a blackcurrant growers group
This close relationship has led to farming and that meets quarterly to share best practice, and the
environmental improvements. One such initiative is Blackcurrant Foundation, an organisation to promote
a partnership with the Wildlife Trust to increase the health and environmental benefits of blackcurrants.
biodiversity.
Similar initiatives are underway with our growers in
Helped by the Wildlife Trust, growers are introducing New Zealand, which supply blackcurrants for Ribena
simple changes to improve the habitat for animals sold in Asia.
1317
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Environment
continued
of oak woodland on the site. They have created a pond, Sites are scored based on their performance against GSK’s
thinned the trees and installed 50 bird nesting boxes. EHS Standards for key suppliers and against a
supplementary, quantitative risk assessment scheme. We
Dartford, in the UK, supports a partnership which includes
make recommendations following the audit and monitor
the UK’s Environment Agency and is working
progress, with a particular focus on poorly-performing
to safeguard the historic Dartford Marshes – vital in
suppliers.
safeguarding Dartford from flooding as well as supporting a
host of rare and protected species, including the water vole. Until they make significant improvements, we curtail or
end procurement from sites that do not meet a minimal
Rixensart and Wavre-Nordin Belgium are both close to
performance score against the EHS Standards, or that
woodland and have been working on improving
score an “unacceptable” rating on the quantitative risk
biodiversity for several years. They have planted
assessment. For contract manufacturers, the minimum
indigenous species of shrub, maximising the use of
score was 30% until 2006, when we increased this
flowering plants that encourage bees and other insects
requirement to 50%.
and established orchards with old varieties of apples, pears
and plums. In 2005 Rixensart celebrated the fifth (Supplier audits also cover basic questions on human
anniversary of a Nature Path employees had created. rights. See human rights and suppliers)
In 2004 we joined the USEPA Green Suppliers Network
SUPPLIERS (GSN) [www.epa.gov/opptintr/p2home/gsn/program.htm].
The Green Suppliers Network is a programme to help
Our supply chain is complex, which means that assuring
small and medium-sized suppliers to reduce their
the EHS performance of our suppliers is challenging.
environmental impact. GSK supports this programme
We currently provide oversight and audit of EHS issues
through initiatives undertaken under an Operational
centrally for approximately 250 critical suppliers and
Excellence theme with specific suppliers.
contract manufacturers of materials that are used
exclusively by GSK. They are based primarily in Europe, Supplier performance
North America and Asia Pacific. In 2005, we carried out 41 site-based EHS audits,
approximately half of which were potentially new
When selecting, negotiating with and managing key
suppliers. Of the 41 sites audited, 32 were producers of
suppliers of materials and products to our manufacturing
ingredients and raw materials for our manufacturing
supply chain, we take EHS and loss-prevention issues into
supply chain. We found a wide variation in performance,
account. This includes providing them with information on
with scores ranging from 28% to 81%. Five suppliers
the EHS risks associated with the GSK materials they are
were determined to be unacceptable against GSK's audit
producing or handling.
assessment standards so we decided not to proceed with
We carry out EHS audits before signing contracts with these suppliers until significant improvements were made.
significant new key suppliers, and contracts contain
The remaining 9 audits were of sites supplying
requirements based on our Global EHS Standards.
pharmaceutical and consumer healthcare products and
Subsequent EHS involvement is based on an assessment materials to Research & Development. Their performance
of EHS risks, focussing on: against our EHS standards ranged from 40% to 95%.
• threats to continuity of supply In general, suppliers based in North America and Europe
• hazards associated with manufacturing processes and performed well. But performance in Asia Pacific was
materials variable, and in some cases there were significant gaps
against our EHS standards.
• environmental impacts
We found no apparent instances of non-compliance with
• regulatory requirements
the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights or the core
• relevance to the supply of essential medicines labour standards set out by the International Labour
The key suppliers that present the greatest risk to GSK on Orgainsation (ILO).
these issues receive the greatest scrutiny.
1327
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Environment
continued
Reporting EHS performance
EHS information is collected where possible from selected
suppliers. This data is not currently included in EHS
performance charts, contained in this report, and has not
been subject to verification by ERM.
In 2005 we requested information from 39 suppliers, 20
of which provided data. Some of these had not provided
data in 2004 so we do not have comparative figures.
These 20 suppliers produced a total of 83 m Kg of
material, resulting in the following:
• energy use: 24m gigajoules
• water consumption: 2m cubic metres
• hazardous waste disposed: 51m Kg
• non-hazardous waste disposed: 5m Kg
133Community investment
1 Introduction
2 Access to medicine
3 Research
4 Ethical conduct
5 Employment practices
6 Human rights
7 Environment
8 Community investment Page
Value of community investment 134
Humanitarian relief 136
Community partnerships 136
Supporting education 138
Employee involvement 138
9 Data summary
88
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Community investment
GSK makes donations of money, medicines, time and equipment to support good
causes. The strategy behind our community investment is improving health and
education in under-served communities. We support public health initiatives and local
community projects around the world and donate medicines to support disaster relief
efforts and impoverished communities.
Community investment is not linked to short-term
Awards in 2005
business benefits and is not intended to create commercial
markets for GSK. But it does support our reputation by During 2005, we received the first Annual Scrip Award
demonstrating our commitment to tackling healthcare for Corporate Social Responsibility for GSK’s role in the
challenges. We believe that using some of our profits Lymphatic Filariasis (LF) elimination programme. We
to benefit under-served communities is part of being a also received a Business in the Community ‘Big Tick’ for
responsible company. our UK Science Education Programme and our support
for Barretstown. We were a finalist in a number of
In 2005, our total community investment was valued at
other awards including:
£380 million ($691million), equivalent to 5.6% of pre-tax
profits. Donations are made at group level and by • The Business in the Community International award
individual GSK sites to support local communities. for the LF Elimination Programme
Our objective is to ensure that projects are sustainable in • The African Investor Award 2005 for GSK’s support
the long-term and will continue once GSK funding comes of the Integrated Management of Childhood
to an end. Most of our community investment is made Illnesses (IMCI) initiative in Africa
through non-profit organisations that are experts in the
• The US Chamber of Commerce Center for Corporate
field of healthcare delivery and education. This helps
Citizenship award for our US education programme.
ensure our giving is targeted at the communities that
need it most.
Information on our community investment programmes
to increase healthcare capacity in developing countries is VALUE OF COMMUNITY INVESTMENT
included in the Access to Medicines section of this report.
GSK donations were valued at £380 million ($691 million)
This covers our major public health initiatives tackling
in 2005, compared with £328 million in 2004. This is
lymphatic filariasis (LF), HIV/AIDS, malaria, and diarrhoea-
equivalent to 5.6% of pre-tax profits.
related disease.
This figure includes medicines worth £255 million ($464
This section provides information on our other community
million) donated to low-income patients in the US through
investment programmes in 2005. It covers:
our Patient Assistance Programs, £27 million ($49 million)
• A breakdown of our charitable donations in 2005. of humanitarian product donations for under-served
communities around the world and £14 million ($26
• Donations of medicines for humanitarian relief including
million) in albendazole tablets for the lymphatic filariasis
natural disasters.
elimination programme.
• Community partnerships – local support provided at
Our total community investment also includes £61 million
corporate level and by GSK sites.
($111 million) in cash grants and almost £21 million ($38
• Our support for science education in the US and UK.
million) in management costs.
• Employee involvement in communities.
GSK is a member of the UK’s Percent Club for companies
which donate at least 1% of their pre-tax profits to
charitable causes. GSK is regularly one of the top
companies in the UK’s Guardian Giving List which lists
FTSE 100 companies by the percentage of pre-tax profits
1348
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Community investment
continued
contributed to charitable causes. In 2005, we were We are members of the UK’s London Benchmarking
listed 10th, based on the percentage of our pre-tax Group (LBG) and the Committee to Encourage Corporate
profits donated in 2004, but for the fourth year in a Philanthropy (CECP) in the US. We report our donations in
row we were the biggest overall giver in the value of line with the guidelines set by the CECP, which values our
our donations. medicines at wholesale acquisition cost, in line with other
pharmaceutical companies. Wholesale acquisition cost is
the wholesale list price, not including discounts.
Method of giving - total £380m
1%
Cash
6%
Product
16% 77% In-kind
Management costs
Method of Giving £million
Cash 61
Product 296
In-kind 2
Mangement costs 21
% Breakdown of cash giving - total £61m
1%
3%
Health
Education
21% Arts and Culture
40%
Breakdown of
Environment cash giving %
Other
Health 40
Education 35
Arts and Culture 3
35%
Environment 1
Other 21
1358
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Community investment
continued
HUMANITARIAN RELIEF Following hurricane Katrina we donated medicines valued
at $10 million to relief facilities in ten US states. This
GSK donates essential products such as antibiotics to help
included antibiotics, vaccines and consumer healthcare
relief efforts in disaster areas and support basic healthcare
products such as toothpaste, antacids and pain relievers.
provision in impoverished communities.
GSK also supplied interim shipments of medicines for
Donations are made at the request of governments and diabetes, heart disease, and asthma for patients who had
major charitable organisations and may be manufactured lost their supplies in the disaster. Some of the medicines
specifically for these partners. This enables charities to were distributed to hospitals and shelters by our partner
hold a range of medicines in stock so they can respond organisations such as Project HOPE and AmeriCares.
promptly in an emergency. We work in partnership with
GSK is the largest pharmaceutical company in Pakistan
several relief charities including AmeriCares, Direct Relief,
and we were able to deliver urgent supplies of free
InterChurch Medical Assistance, MAP International and
medicines within 48 hours of the earthquake via our local
Project HOPE.
business there. Our product donations, including hepatitis-
There is a limit to the amount of products we can give A vaccines requested by the Ministry of Health, were
away, so donations must be carefully managed. We rely valued at $6.5 million and we also gave a cash donation
on the expertise of our partners to ensure that available of $1 million to the South Asia Earthquake Relief Fund.
medicines are targeted at the communities that need
them most. GSK general managers must approve
donations destined for their country to avoid any conflict COMMUNITY PARTNERSHIPS
with our commercial business. Our charity partners are We support a wide range of health and education
required to track donations to make sure they reach their initiatives in the communities where we operate.
intended destination and are dispensed appropriately. We Donations are made centrally and by GSK sites to
do not donate medicines for diseases which require a support local charities and good causes.
continuous, assured supply.
Below are just a few examples of the many community
GSK follows the World Health Organization Interagency partnerships we supported in 2005:
Guidelines for Drug Donations. These state that donations
should be made in response to an expressed need, sent Europe
with prior consent and must be labelled correctly and have Barretstown in Ireland and L’Envol in France are residential
a minimum one year shelf life. We are also a member of camps where seriously ill children can have fun and
the Partnership for Quality Medical Donations (PQMD), an develop their self confidence. GSK gave £250,000
alliance of pharmaceutical companies and charities that ($455,000) and £100,000 ($182,000) respectively to
encourages best practice in the donation and delivery of support the camps in 2005. Employees also give their time
medicines. to Barretstown and L’Envol, with over 40 GSK employees
participating in 2005.
Activity During 2005
During 2005 we donated life-saving medicines worth £27 GSK is also funding five European programmes, each with
million ($49 million), to support relief efforts in almost 100 a grant of £300,000 over three years. These are:
countries. Supplies of antibiotics and basic medicines were • Change in Advance, a disease prevention programme
sent in response to the South East Asian tsunami, that promotes healthy eating and exercise, aimed at
hurricanes in the US and the Caribbean and the Slovakian children living on urban housing estates;
earthquake in Pakistan.
• Childrens’ Shelters, a programme in Spain that provides
In the immediate aftermath of the tsunami we donated healthcare for homeless and abandoned children;
more than 3.6 million doses of antibiotics to prevent the
• Beacon of Hope, a palliative care programme for
spread of infectious diseases in affected countries. We
children in Romania;
have also committed £2 million ($3.8 million) to support
organisations working on relief and reconstruction • Reading for Growing, a programme in Italy which,
operations in the disaster area. through reading aloud, helps children with neuro-
functional disabilities and those who have endured long
hospitalisation;
1368
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Community investment
continued
• Multi Coloured Lives, an interactive education across the UK supporting parents and carers of young
programme to help children with disabilities integrate babies and children under five in dealing with diagnosed
into Russian society. and undiagnosed recurring chest problems.
International US
GSK’s PHASE (Personal Hygiene and Sanitation Education) GSK is donating $350,000 (£192,000) over three years
initiative is providing education to over 270,000 school to the Arthur Ashe Institute for Urban Health. The Black
children in Kenya, Uganda, Zambia, Nicaragua and Peru Pearls programme provides health education for low-
to improve their health and hygiene to fight infectious income neighbourhoods by reaching into non-traditional
diseases. In 2005, we committed three-year funding of venues, including African American and Afro-Caribbean
£300,000 to extend the programme to Bangladesh in churches, barber shops, beauty salons, laundromats and
partnership with Save the Children USA, see Major public tattoo parlours. It provides culturally appropriate
health initiatives above. information to help promote early disease detection and
encourage people in multi-ethnic communities to adopt
GSK is funding a number of country programmes, each
healthier lifestyles.
with a grant of £200,000 over three years:
We continue to support the Children’s Health Fund’s
• Pinoy Health Pass, Family Health and Well Being
Referral Management Initiative (RMI). A new, three-year
provides health education for families on low incomes
grant of $2.6 million (£1.4 million) will help RMI continue
in the Philippines
and extend its services into Philadelphia, helping high-risk
• Attituda Positiva, uses drama in schools to increase and homeless children receive the specialist medical care
awareness and education on HIV and reproductive they need.
health for teenagers in Brazil
Foundations
• ‘500 Midwives’ helps improve mother and child health
GSK does not operate a single charitable foundation for
in rural areas of Vietnam by bringing birth attendants
its community investment programmes but has several
from ethnic minority groups for training in the capital’s
country-based foundations in Canada, Czech Republic,
major hospital.
France, Italy, Romania, Spain, and North Carolina in the
UK US. Our local foundations support a wide range of
In 2005 GSK supported over 80 charitable organisations charities and healthcare initiatives.
in the UK. This included over £470,000 ($855,000) to
Since 1998 the GSK France Foundation has supported
support medical research undertaken by the charities
68 programmes in 13 countries. These focus on people
Meningitis UK, The British Liver Trust, Alzheimer’s Research
living with HIV/AIDS in developing countries, particularly
Trust and The Samantha Dickson Research Trust.
in Africa, and aim to improve healthcare through
We extended our partnership with the British Red Cross, prevention, education and training. During 2005, 13
giving £350,000 over three years to their Gateway project new programmes were implemented in 5 countries with
in Scotland. Gateway helps young people with disabilities grants of 700 000 euros (£480,000).
to gain the skills and self-confidence they need to live
The GSK Foundation in Canada focuses much of its
independently. Since 2001, Gateway has worked with a
support on hospice care helping terminally ill patients
small group of young disabled people helping them set
and their families. The Foundation is also supporting
personal goals and receive individually tailored training
community programmes in Africa, including AIDS Orphan
and support. More than 150 people with disabilities also
Uganda, a three-year programme building community
visit the centre each year to take part in workshops and
support for vulnerable children in the Luweero District.
use its facilities. The new funding will enable Gateway
to extend their service across Scotland and share their The North Carolina GSK Foundation in the USA is an
experiences with health and social care providers endowed, self-funding organisation. It supports initiatives
throughout the UK. in the areas of mathematics, science and health education
in North Carolina. In 2005, this Foundation awarded
GSK is giving £386,000 ($703,000) over two years to
grants totalling $2.7 million (£1.49 million).
support the British Lung Foundation’s Baby Breathe Easy
programme. This is funding a pilot scheme in nine regions
1378
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Community investment
continued
SUPPORTING EDUCATION • We support Sally Ride Science Festivals which aim to
increase girls’ interest in science, maths and technology.
GSK supports education in the UK and US and has a
The festivals feature workshops led by local
particular emphasis on developing scientific literacy and
veterinarians, astronomers, microbiologists and
encouraging the next generation of scientists.
engineers. Workshops are also run for parents and
Science Education in the UK teachers on how they can support girls’ interests in
GSK is supporting the INSPIRE (Innovative Scheme for science and technology careers.
Post-doctoral researchers In Research and Education)
• A three-year grant of $300,000 (£165,000) ) from GSK
scheme, developed in partnership with Imperial College
is helping the National Board for Professional Teaching
London and the Specialist Schools and Academies Trust,
Standards to increase the number of science teachers in
with a £1 million ($1.8 million) donation over four years.
the North Carolina and Philadelphia areas
INSPIRE aims to raise achievement by placing post-doctoral
researchers in specialist science schools to train as teachers
and support science teaching. EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT
In the fifth year of GSK sponsorship, a grant of £110,000 GSK employees are encouraged to contribute to their
($200,000) to the Association for Science Education local communities as volunteers.
supported Science Across the World, an international
Hundreds of employees give their time to good causes
education programme that enables school children in
through our Days of Caring in the US, and to support
more than 115 countries to discuss science issues over
school science education through our UK Science and
the internet.
Engineering Ambassador Scheme and US Partnership
With a £50,000 grant from GSK, 2,600 UK science for Educational Discovery.
teachers were able to participate in ‘Active Assessment’
In the UK and US we also make cash donations to
training in 2005. This helps teachers improve their pupils’
charities where employees have done voluntary work.
‘thinking skills’ and empowers them to take more
responsibility for their own learning. During 2005, our GSK Investment in Volunteer Excellence
(GIVE) programme gave $300,000 (£165,000) to over
GSK has also committed £1 million ($1.8 million) over four
350 charitable organisations in the US where employees
years to help build the new Darwin Centre at the Natural
or their partners volunteered at least 50 hours during the
History Museum in London, to enable better display of the
year. In the UK, our Making a Difference programme
museum’s important collection.
provided grants of almost £300,000 ($546,000) to over
Education in the US 440 charities where our employees had volunteered.
During 2005, we increased our support for initiatives to In many countries we also encourage employees to
improve overall education standards in the US. GSK is donate money to charity by matching the money they
a founding partner of the US Chamber of Commerce’s give or by providing tax-efficient ways for them to make
Business Education Network. The network will develop a donation, in accordance with local taxation guidelines.
partnerships between the business community and
In 2005 in the USA, GSK matched donations by
education providers to improve educational standards
employees and retirees at a value of over $5 million
and bridge skills gaps.
(£2.7 million). In addition, GSK gave $1.35 million
We also continued to support a range of science (£742,000) to match donations by GSK employees
education initiatives: through the annual GSK and United Way campaign.
• Science in the Summer is a free, library-based education
programme in Philadelphia, giving children the chance
to participate in hands-on experiments and science
based courses. In 2005 GSK donated $300,000 to
Science in the Summer, which enabled almost 6000
children to participate. Almost 75,000 children have
participated in the programme since it was launched
nearly 20 years ago.
1388
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Community investment
continued
CASE STUDY
The gift of life – GSK product donations
GSK antibiotics fight both common and life-threatening
infections. In 2005 we donated antibiotics and other
medicines worth £27 million in response to disaster
relief efforts, as travel packs for medics on
humanitarian missions and to support healthcare
provision in impoverished communities.
Three-year old Rosa Angelica Pravia is just one of
the thousands of people to have benefited. She was
admitted to a hospital in a remote part of South
America where the doctor feared her infection could
result in meningitis. Her father earns just $2 a day
cleaning pineapples and there are 10 children in the
family, so they could not afford medicine to treat her.
Fortunately the hospital had just received a donation
of medicines from MAP International, including GSK’s
antibiotic Ceftin. Within three days Rosa was out of
danger. Her doctor said the Ceftinhad saved her life.
Many of these products are donated in response to
specific requests from relief charities such as
AmeriCares, Direct Relief, InterChurch Medical
Assistance, MAP International and Project HOPE.
MAP International uses donations of GSK antibiotics
such as Augmentinand Amoxilin travel packs for its
medical missions. The packs are compact, fully stocked,
portable pharmacies that enable the teams to treat a
wide range of illnesses in developing countries. “The
antibiotics treated many infections, some of which
were life threatening,” a MAP team reported recently
after a mission to Zambia. “The local doctors told us
that they can go to remote villages to see patients who
do not have the resources to fill prescriptions. Without
GSK’s help we would not have been able to see so
many patients and help them with medication.”
139Data summary
1 Introduction
2 Access to medicine
3 Research
4 Ethical conduct
5 Employment practices
6 Human rights
7 Environment
8 Community investment Page
9 Data summary 140
99
GSK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
Data summary
Access to medicines 2002 2003 2004 2005
Number of countries supplied with preferentially priced ARVs1 50 56 57 56
Number of preferentially priced Combivirtablets shipped (millions)1 6.2 10.7 32.7 45
Number of preferentially priced Epivirtablets shipped (millions)1 1.7 5.2 34.4 81.3
GSK Combivirnot-for-profit price ($ per day)2 1.7 0.65 0.65
Voluntary licences granted to generic manufacturers for GSK ARVs 6 7
Number of albendazole tablets donated for prevention of Lymphatic Filariasis (millions) 66 94 67 136
Number of countries supplied with albendazole 31 34 34 36
Research and development
GSK animal research facilities accredited by the Association for Assessment and 7 7 10 10
Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care3
Number of trials published on the GSK Clinical Trial Register (cumulative total)4 – – 143 2,125
Ethical conduct
Number of employees completing certification to the GSK Code of Conduct 700 9,000 9,600 >12,000
Number of contacts through our ethics compliance channels5 2,580 3,644
Employment
Women in management grades (%) 32 34 35 35
Ethnic diversity – people of colour (US, %) 19 19.5 19.5 19.6
Ethnic diversity – ethnic minorities (UK, %) – – 14.8 14.9
Lost time injury and illness rate (cases per 100,000 hours worked) 0.34 0.30 0.30 0.30
Lost time injury and illness rate for contractors working on site (cases per 0.50 0.33 0.40 0.44
100,000 hours worked)
Environment
Number of contract manufacturers audited 16 28 35 41
Energy consumption (million gigajoules) 20 20 19 19
Water consumption (million cubic metres) 24 23 21 22
Ozone depletion potential from metered dose inhalers (tonnes CFC-11 equivalent) 1,500 782 464 198
Ozone depletion potential from production (tonnes CFC-11 equivalent) 121 72 59 51
Ozone depletion potential from refrigeration and other ancillary uses 7 3 3 3
(tonnes CFC-11 equivalent)
Volatile organic compound emissions (thousand tonnes) 7 7 5 5
Global warming potential from energy sources (thousand tonnes CO2 equivalent) 1,844 1,833 1,747 1,759
Hazardous waste disposed (thousand tonnes) 62 61 74 68
Community investment
Total community investment expenditure (£ millions) 239 338 328 380
Value of humanitarian product donations, including albendazole (£ millions) 24 116 57 41
Value of products donated through GSK Patient Assistance Program in the US (£ millions) 112 125 203 255
1Includes ARVs sold at not-for-profit and discounted prices. We are unable to collect data for the number of patients treated.
2Includes delivery costs. Médecins Sans Frontières June 2005 report showed that the average cost of generic equivalents is $0.64 a
day and the lowest priced generic equivalent costs $0.50 a day, not including delivery.
3We currently have 14 animal research laboratories. In 2004 we had 13 animal research laboratories.
498% of trials completed since the merger which created GSK.
5Includes contacts with line managers, compliance officers, our confidential Integrity Helplines or offsite post office box (in the US).
140