Corporate Responsibility Report 2012
Do more, feel better, live longerGSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 1
About GSK
At GSK our mission is to improve the Front cover image
We donated anti-parasitic treatments
quality of human life by enabling people for over 120 million school-age
children in the developing world in
2012, helping to combat the effects
to do more, feel better and live longer.
of intestinal worms and the cycle
of poverty to which they contribute.
Intestinal worms are just one of the
This report describes the progress we
neglected tropical diseases we are
targeting through research, funding,
are making and how we are operating partnerships and a dedicated
operating unit established this year.
our business responsibly.
How to use this report
This interactive pdf allows you to find information Guide to the navigation buttons Print-friendly PDF Links
and navigate around the report more easily.
The print icon in the navigation allows Dynamic links within the text are indicated
Where relevant, it links you to additional useful Go to main contents page
you to print the whole document in a by an icon or by text shown in the section
information, including our policy positions, on separate, print-friendly PDF. colour. Clicking on these will take you
our website gsk.com Search this PDF to further information within the document,
Full screen mode
or, if a web address, to a related online site
If you are interested in getting just a summary
Print The PDF is set up to view in full screen (opens in a new window).
of our responsible business performance, we suggest
mode. To turn this off, e.g. to zoom in
you read the overview at the beginning of each Navigation tabs
or to print, press Esc, and the full toolbar
section. You can find these summary pages here. Go to preceding page is revealed. To return to full screen mode, Clicking on one of the tabs at the top
press Ctrl-L. left of each page will take you to the start
Go to next page of that section.
Go to the Overview sections summary
Return to last page visitedGSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 2
Inside this report
Our approach Health for all Our behaviour Our people Our planet Governance
Our approach Health for all Our behaviour Our people Our planet Managing our
raenspdo nesnibgialigtieesment
Learn about who we are Find out how we are Learn how we are Find out how we help Read about how Find out about our
and what we do, and developing innovative embedding our values our people thrive by we are managing our corporate responsibility
read the Q&A with products and improving to behave ethically creating an inspiring environmental impacts governance and
our Chairman and access to healthcare for and responsibly in and supportive and working towards a how we engage with
Chief Executive. patients around the world. everything we do. working environment. carbon-neutral value chain. our stakeholders.
Who we are 3 Overview 11 Overview 34 Overview 53 Overview 63 Governance 72
How we create value 4 Improving healthcare: Ethical standards and principles 35 Talent and development 54 Carbon 64 Stakeholder engagement 73
Q&A with the Chairman a global challenge 13 Sales and marketing 38 Inclusion and diversity 55 Water and waste 66 About our reporting 73
and Chief Executive Officer 6 Innovative science Working with Engaging employees 57 Managing other impacts 68
Our progress in 2012 7 to create value for all 14 healthcare professionals 40 Health, safety and well-being 58 Engagement 69
Commitments moving forward 8 Access to healthcare 18 Research practices 41 Reward and recognition 60 Data summary 70
Diseases of the developing world 24 Manufacturing and supply chain 45 Summary of
Health and well-being Public policy assurance statement 71
in our communities 27 and patient advocacy 48
HIV/AIDS 30 Our approach to tax 50
Go to Our approach section Go to Health for all section G o to Our behaviour section Go to Our people section Go to Our planet section Go to Governance and
See page 3 See page 9 See page 32 See page 51 See page 61 engagement section
See page 72GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 3
Who we are
GSK is a science-led global What we do
healthcare company, making
We have three primary areas of business:
a range of products that help Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare.
people do more, feel better
Pharmaceuticals Vaccines Consumer Healthcare
and live longer.
£18.0bn We develop and make medicines £3.3bn We research and make vaccines £5.1bn We make innovative consumer
Our values are transparency,
treating a range of conditions for children and adults that products in four categories
respect for people, integrity Turnover including: respiratory disease, Turnover protect against infectious Turnover of Total Wellness, Oral Care,
cancer, heart disease, epilepsy, diseases, including: influenza, Nutrition and Skin Health. Our
and patient focus. bacterial and viral infections such rotavirus, cervical cancer, measles, portfolio includes well-known
68% 1 3% 1 9%
as HIV, lupus and skin conditions mumps, rubella, hepatitis, polio, brands such as: Sensodyne,
Our commercial success like psoriasis. tetanus and meningitis. Panadol and Horlicks.
of Group of Group of Group
depends on growing a diverse
business, creating innovative
new products people value,
making them widely accessible,
and operating efficiently.
Where we are
By doing this, we will be able
to grow our business and We operate in more than 115 countries, Turnover by region Employees by region
with a network of over 70 manufacturing
provide benefits to patients, 5 1 4 5 1
sites and large R&D centres in the UK,
4
consumers, our employees,
USA, Spain, Belgium and China. 2
our shareholders and society.
2
3
3
£m No.
1 USA 8,446 1 USA 17,201
2 Europe 7,320 2 Europe 38,788
3 EMAP 6,780 3 EMAP 36,738
4 Japan 2,225 4 Japan 3,515
5 Other 1,660 5 Other 3,246GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 4
How we create value
By delivering innovation The context heart disease and respiratory illnesses. Over Sustainability in our business performance is
the next three years, we have the potential to critically important if we are to deliver continued
and expanding access
We see both opportunities and challenges bring around 15 new medicines to patients. innovation and access to our products. We must
to our products we will in our operating environment. Scientific produce profitable performance to ensure we
Access
create value to society research is continuously uncovering new remain competitive and have the funds to invest
understandings about disease processes We manufacture and distribute more than in our people and assets. A key element of this is
and our shareholders. and technologies. four billion packs of products to over an environment that appropriately rewards
Meanwhile, the world’s population 150 countries around the world. With this innovation across both patent-protected and
continues to grow as do pressures on extensive global presence, we are striving branded products.
healthcare costs, with a notable intensification to make our products as widely accessible How we do it
in developed markets following the recent as possible.
macro-economic downturn. We can only achieve our objectives by utilising
In Western markets, we have developed new
our assets, executing our strategic priorities
Innovation reimbursement approaches for our medicines,
and operating our business responsibly.
where we agree risk-sharing arrangements
At the core of our business model is the use with payers. In the past five years, we have made
of knowledge and development of intellectual significant progress in the delivery of our
property. We create value by researching, We have adopted more flexible pricing strategic priorities.
manufacturing and making available products approaches to reflect countries’ wealth and
that improve people’s health and well-being. ability to pay. This has resulted in significant We have developed a balanced business with
increases in demand for our products in geographic diversity and new platforms for
A healthier society enables people to live emerging economies. growth, in particular through advancement
life to its fullest, allowing them and their of our late-stage pipeline and changes to our
communities to prosper. A sustained flow To increase access to our products in the world’s R&D model. At the same time, we have also
of innovative products enables our business least-developed countries, we have held the simplified our business to reduce costs and
to grow profits and deliver improved returns price of our patented medicines in this region ensure we retain long-term competitiveness.
to our shareholders. at no more than 25% of our developed world
prices and we reinvest a fifth of the profits we Our commitment to be a responsible, values-
We aim to develop new products that offer make from sales in these territories back into based business underlies everything we do.
significant improvements over existing local healthcare infrastructure projects. Our values are applied across the Group and
treatment options and therefore provide value we are focused on integrating them into our
Sustainable
to patients and those who pay for them such culture, decision-making and how we work.
as governments, insurers or other third parties. Developing a new medicine takes many years These values are to operate with transparency,
In 2012, we invested £3.5 billion in core and substantial investment. We are able to bring demonstrate respect for people, act with
research and development of new medicines, the scale, significant resources and expertise integrity and be patient-focused. We ask every
vaccines and consumer products and we are required. Each successful medicine will require one of our employees to embody these values.
currently evaluating around 50 investigational significant investment over a 10-12 year period.
medicines for diseases such as cancer, diabetes,GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 5
How we create value continued
How we create value Wider contributions
While our primary contribution is to develop
new products that improve people’s health,
we also create value as a global company
Our assets Shareholder returns by making direct and indirect economic
and social contributions in the countries in
Intellectual property, people
which we operate.
and infrastructure
+
We have a global and diverse employee base
consisting of close to 100,000 employees, and
Deliver innnovative we contract goods and services on a significant
Our strategic priorities Benefits to patients, scale. Last year, GSK spent around £9 billion
products and expand
with 6,000 suppliers across 73 countries.
Grow, Deliver, Simplify consumers and society
access to them
The company also contributes to the countries
in which we operate through the tax system.
+
In 2012, the charge for taxation on our profits
Our values amounted to £1.95 billion. Direct contributions
to support the health and well-being of local
Transparency, Respect,
communities relevant to GSK are also made
Integrity, Patient focused Re-investment
via our global community programmes which
amount to over £200 million per year.
Finally, we believe we can create value by
acting as a catalyst or partner for other
organisations. We value the new and different
perspectives that other groups can bring to
our thinking. We are open to working with
research charities, academia, companies and
Progress highlights non-governmental organisations.
£25bn 1 st 23
Amount returned to shareholders in Access to Medicines Index Number of new product
via dividends and buybacks approvals in the USA and
over past five years Europe in the past five yearsGSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 6
Q&A with the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Despite a challenging Q How is operating responsibly tied we are setting up a new system to allow Q What issues will be addressed in
researchers to request access to anonymised
environment, we have in with GSK’s commercial success? 2013 and beyond?
patient-level data. People participate in our
delivered resilient AW Our commercial success is inextricably research trials in the hope they might help AW We will see through the implementation
performance, enhanced linked to operating in a trustworthy and bring advances in healthcare. Our plans of our commitments on transparency
responsible way. Our strategy is to generate recognise this commitment and reflect our of clinical trials data, continue with our
returns to shareholders,
diversified sales growth, develop innovative desire to ensure their contribution can lead commitments on pricing, and look to further
and made substantive products and make these accessible to as many to health gains. Building on this, we were also harness manufacturing technologies to
people who can benefit from them as possible. the first pharmaceutical company to sign up improve our carbon footprint.
moves to increase access
And we will do this in a way that is aligned to the AllTrials campaign for clinical trial
and transparency.
with our values of transparency, respect, transparency and to commit to make our Q How does the Board assess GSK’s
integrity and always putting patients or Clinical Study Reports publicly available.
responsible performance?
consumers needs first. By doing this we will We hope these initiatives will help further
bring positive returns to our shareholders and scientific understanding, inform medical CG The Corporate Responsibility Committee
benefits to patients and wider society. This is judgement and ultimately improve patient care. (CRC), which I chair, meets four times a year
real shared value. and receives reports on progress in the four
2012 also saw another milestone in our
areas outlined in this report – health for all,
journey towards a malaria vaccine, publishing
Q What progress is the company our behaviour, our people and our planet. The
late stage clinical trial results showing that our
Board continues to constructively challenge and
making to deliver long-term value? RTS,S vaccine candidate can help protect
advise on the executive team’s thinking and
African infants against malaria.
AW R&D made significant progress in 2012 decisions as they seek to deliver the company’s
with six new products now under regulatory CG I was delighted to see GSK recognised as strategic priorities in a responsible way.
review. Over the next three years, GSK has the first in the Access to Medicines Index in 2012,
potential to launch around 15 new products sustaining the top spot from previous years. Q Why is GSK setting longer-term
globally – a good platform for growth and Such independent and credible assessment of commitments this year?
patient benefit. We have also continued to our work to improve access to medicines and
develop our portfolios and expand our vaccines lets us know we are on the right track. AW These new commitments signal GSK’s long
footprint in emerging markets. term and strategic intent to play our part and
In July 2012, the Group successfully resolved
create shared value. They span our entire
Sir Christopher Gent a series of long-standing legal matters with
Chairman Q Where did GSK see strong the US Government. These primarily related business, are fully aligned to our strategy
and build on our established track record.
responsible performance in 2012?
to historical sales and marketing practices.
The Board recognises that these matters do CG It is important that those outside the
AW Our 2012 commitments to increase
not reflect the company that GSK is today. company can understand our priorities and
transparency of clinical trials data demonstrate
The company continues to take action at all can hold us to account effectively. These new
the values at the heart of our company. In
levels to improve procedures for compliance, commitments do that, while helping us
addition to sharing information about the
Sir Andrew Witty marketing and selling and embed a values- communicate how we are delivering.
design and results of all of our clinical trials,
Chief Executive Officer based culture in GSK.GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 7
Our progress in 2012
We report our responsible Shared value progress 2012
business performance
Health for all Our behaviour Our people Our planet
each year as part of our
commitment to transparency. Topped the Access to Medicines Committed to provide access Maintained a rate of 85% of Despite reducing our carbon from
Index for the third time. 1 st to anonymised trial data from employees saying they are proud energy use by 15% since 2010, our total
Our approach and the See page 18 published clinical trials of our to work at GSK. carbon footprint (excluding that from
authorised medicines. 85% raw materials) has increased by 7% from
See page 57
progress we are making 2010 driven by higher inhaler sales.
See page 41
to operate our business Over the next three years we have the See page 64 7%
potential to bring around 15 new i
responsibly is reported medicines and vaccines to patients. This is in addition to disclosing the Enabled 91 employee volunteers
results of our research on our publicly to work in 22 countries through
across four areas. See page 14 15 accessible Clinical Studies Register our PULSE assignments. Reduced water consumption in our
website which receives an average of See page 54 91 own operations by 14% compared
almost 11,000 visitors a month. to 2010.
Delivered our vaccine to the world’s See page 33 See page 66 14%
largest mass vaccination programme 11,000
against pneumococcal disease. Increased the proportion of women
The GAVI-led introduction of the in management to 40%, up from
pneumococcal vaccine in Pakistan is 39% in 2011. Cut total waste by 9%
expected to protect up to 4.8 million Revised our Code of Conduct. compared to 2010.
See page 55 40% 9%
children a year. 4.8m See page 35 See page 66
See page 19
External recognition
We have received external recognition for our responsible business approach.
Vigeo World, Carbon Disclosure Dow Jones
European and UK indexes FTSE4Good Index Access to Medicines Index Project Leadership Index Sustainability Index
Ranked second in the world We have been in the Ranked top for the third time. Four consecutive years in the We are disappointed not
for environmental, social and FTSE4Good Index since 2004. FTSE 350 Carbon Disclosure to be included in the Dow
governance in this new ranking. Leadership index (2009-2012) Jones Sustainability Indexes
and highest scoring healthcare this year and are reviewing
company in the FTSE 350 (2012). our performance against
the criteria for inclusion.
i
iGSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 8
Commitments Health for all Innovating to address currently unmet health needs;
improving access to our products, irrespective of where people live or their ability to pay;
moving forward and controlling or eliminating diseases affecting the world’s most vulnerable people.
• Adapt the open innovation R&D model, currently used for diseases • Continue to work with partners to support the strengthening of healthcare
of the developing world, to apply to other areas of great unmet infrastructure. We anticipate this could improve access to healthcare for
medical need and scientific challenge, including infectious disease 20 million under-served people by 2020 (vs 2012).
and Alzheimer’s disease, by 2015.
• Through ViiV Healthcare, continue to increase access to our medicines and
During 2012, we developed
• Invest in the development of vaccines that don’t require continuous care for adults and children living with HIV around the world. We will help
forward-looking commitments refrigeration, making distribution easier and less expensive. WHO and UNAIDS achieve their goal of reaching 15 million people globally
with antiretroviral treatment by 2015.
that reflect global health • Continue to build a core range of products and formats to better meet
the needs of people across the globe, including those less able to access • Build on our 30-year commitment to contribute to the fight against malaria
needs and are aligned
and afford our products. through continued R&D investment and partnerships on the ground.
with our strategic priorities
• Further embed our flexible pricing strategy and innovative business • Help eliminate and control ten neglected tropical diseases that affect
and values. models for our prescription medicines and vaccines, to increase usage 1.4 billion people, by 2020 – including the elimination of lymphatic filariasis,
among those less able to access and afford our products. through our continued investment in R&D, ongoing product donations and
our contribution to the London Declaration on Neglected Tropical Diseases.
• Continue to invest in innovative cross-sector partnerships
These commitments 1 were developed
to reduce child mortality. • Continue to support the WHO objective of eradicating polio by 2018
following significant engagement from across
by providing vaccines to UNICEF until this is achieved.
the business. We also consulted a broad range
of external stakeholders such as global public
Our behaviour Putting the interests of patients and Our people Enabling our people to thrive
health experts, non-governmental organisations
consumers first, driven by our values in and develop as individuals to deliver
and socially responsible investors. These
everything we do and backed by robust our mission.
commitments will guide our work in these
policies and strong compliance processes.
areas in the coming years, enabling us to build
on previous achievements and to measure and • C ontinue to drive a values-based approach to sales and marketing practices • C ontinue to promote inclusion and diversity globally at GSK.
communicate our progress more effectively. across the world, with the interests of consumers and patients at its core.
• Continue to create a working environment that inspires people to grow
We will begin reporting progress against our • Continue to ensure the interests and safety of patients and consumers and perform in a healthy and resilient way.
new commitments in our next report. are of paramount importance in the way we design and undertake
• Extend volunteering opportunities to bring about positive change
our clinical trials, our product quality assurance and our monitoring and
to communities and global health while providing individual development.
reporting of adverse events in ongoing product usage.
• Rigorously challenge the need for animal studies and work to minimise Our planet Growing our business while reducing
the impact on animal welfare, by investing in the development of alternative our environmental impact across our
studies and sharing animal-based data.
value chain.
• Address the UN Guiding Principles on Human Rights and Business across
our own operations and our supplier relationships.
• Reduce our overall carbon footprint by 25% by 2020 (vs. 2010) and have
• Be as transparent as possible with our clinical trial data, including publishing a carbon-neutral value chain by 2050.
clinical study reports (without patient-level data) for all outcome trials of
• By 2020, reduce our water impact across the value chain by 20% (vs. 2010).
medicines conducted by GSK and, within an appropriate process, making
available to researchers access to anonymised patient-level data to further • By 2020, reduce our operational waste by 50% (vs. 2010).
scientific enquiry.
• Build sustainable supply lines for our nutrition portfolio and work with
• Demonstrate that all GSK interactions with patient advocacy groups and local farmers to improve their agricultural practices, and improve their yields,
1 All commitments are subject to any significant political stakeholders are conducted appropriately, ethically and transparently. their competitiveness and their livelihoods.
legal or intellectual property restraints.GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 9
Health for all
In this section
Overview 11
Improving healthcare: a global challenge 13
Innovative science to create value for all 14
Access to healthcare 18
In focus Diseases of the developing world 24
Health and well-being in our communities 27
Giving children a better start HIV/AIDS 30
in life through deworming.
Read more on page 10GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 10
Health for all
In focus GSK is playing a leading role in a global
We want to make our products
coalition of pharmaceutical companies,
Giving non-government organisations, governments
accessible and affordable for the people and global health organisations, committed
children a to work together to control or eliminate
10 of the 17 of the WHO’s neglected tropical
who need them while generating
better start diseases by 2020.
As part of this commitment, GSK will donate
the returns we need to invest in R&D in life through
up to 600 million treatments of our anti-
parasitic treatment, albendazole, each year
deworming
and grow our business. to help eliminate lymphatic filariasis (LF), and
up to 400 million treatments to fight intestinal
worms in school age children. We have
already donated over three billion albendazole
The need for new and existing treatments is increasing as the world’s doses to fight these two devastating diseases.
population grows and ages. Many millions of people in developing
Intestinal worms affect more than 1.5 billion
countries still have little or no access to basic healthcare and rising costs people worldwide and are one of the biggest
causes of ill health in school-age children with
are a significant concern everywhere. We continue to evolve our business
an estimated 890 million children at risk.
model to address these global challenges and ensure our business
The effects – including stomach pains, sickness,
is sustainable.
malnutrition – are painful and debilitating.
Intestinal worms can cause stunting
GSK contributes to improving health by developing innovative and by controlling worms in physical growth, and affect long-term
valued products, and supporting disease prevention. Our R&D is focused children you are investing brain development. Infected children often
on meeting unmet medical needs and helping to control and eliminate in their future struggle to attend or stay alert at school,
hindering their education and prospects.
diseases affecting the world’s most vulnerable people.
In 2012, we provided albendazole treatments
We are investing to expand our portfolio in new ways and partnering for over 120 million school age children.
Deworming helps to break the cycle in
with others to tackle issues outside our core business such as the lack
the developing world. Healthier children
of healthcare infrastructure.
are more likely to attend school and get
a better education – giving them a better
We aspire to be a catalyst for change beyond our company. Many of
chance of getting good jobs. As the
the changes we have made in our own business – from creating new headmistress of a local school in Ghana
says,“by controlling worms in children you
models of open innovation to more flexible pricing – have already
are investing in their future”.
contributed to wider change in the industry.GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 11
Overview
2012 at a glance
Innovative science to create value for all Access to healthcare Diseases of the developing world Committed to meeting at least 30% of the
Global Polio Eradication Initiative’s polio
Invested £3.5 billion in global research and Delivered our vaccine to the world’s largest Initiated and joined the London vaccine requirements, procured through
development. We have over 50 investigational mass vaccination programme against Declaration to control or eliminate UNICEF and will continue to support the
medicines in development, including those pneumococcal disease. The GAVI-led ten neglected tropical diseases by 2020. initiative until every country in the world
targeting cancer, diabetes and heart disease. introduction of Synflorix in Pakistan is declared ‘polio free’.
See page 24
is expected to protect up to 4.8 million
See page 14 children a year. See page 25
£3.5bn
See page 19 Donated our three billionth albendazole
4.8m
tablet to fight lymphatic filariasis and
intestinal worms, and pledged to donate
Health and well-being
Put into the public domain 177 compounds up to a further one billion tablets a year.
in our communities
showing promising starting points for new
See page 24
TB medicines, following a screening of our Since our Developing Countries and Market Donated £206 million to promote
entire pharmaceutical library of more than Access unit was established in 2010, the the health and well-being of
two million compounds. volume of medicines we supply to Least- communities through product
See page 17 177 Developed Countries has increased by nearly and financial donations
50% from 55 million units in 2010 to
£206m
See page 27
82.5 million in 2012.
See page 18
Committed a further £5 million to the
Tres Cantos Open Lab Foundation, doubling its HIV/AIDS
funding for independent research into diseases
ViiV Healthcare submitted regulatory
of the developing world at GSK’s Open Lab.
applications for the investigational
See page 17 integrase inhibitor dolutegravir
and spearheaded a first-of-its-kind
Established programmes training Published late-stage clinical trial public-private partnership to produce
community health workers in 34 Least- results showing that our RTS,S vaccine a new combination HIV medicine for
Developed Countries, meeting our candidate can help protect African paediatric use in resource-limited settings.
commitment to reinvest 20% of profits infants against malaria.
See page 30
made in those countries back into
See page 26
developing health infrastructure.
See page 22
34GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 12
Overview
Our commitments Post-2015 Development Agenda External Perspective
• Adapt the open innovation R&D model, • Through ViiV Healthcare, continue to
currently used for diseases of the developing increase access to our medicines and care
world, to apply to other areas of great for adults and children living with HIV
The current Millennium Development We are pleased that most companies
unmet medical need and scientific challenge, around the world. We will help WHO and
Goals, which will expire in 2015, examined by the Access to Medicine
including infectious disease and Alzheimer’s UNAIDS achieve their goal of reaching
disease, by 2015. 15 million people globally with antiretroviral include targets for health. GSK is an Index continue to make progress in
active partner in ensuring a continued
treatment by 2015. improving access to medicine for people
• Invest in the development of vaccines that focus on health as a new framework
in developing countries. GlaxoSmithKline
don’t require continuous refrigeration, • Build on our 30-year commitment to is developed post 2015.
has played an important leadership role
making distribution easier and less expensive. contribute to the fight against malaria
through continued R&D investment and
For more information about GSK’s in setting the pace for others to follow,
• Continue to build a core range of products partnerships on the ground. position read here and this was reflected in the 2012 Index
and formats to better meet the needs of by the company retaining its first place
people across the globe, including those less • Help eliminate and control ten neglected
ranking in the Index. Other companies
able to access and afford our products. tropical diseases that affect 1.4 billion
are indeed now following, and are
people, by 2020 – including the elimination
• Further embed our flexible pricing strategy of lymphatic filariasis, through our closing the gap on GSK. We look forward
and innovative business models for our continued investment in R&D, ongoing in the coming years to observing
prescription medicines and vaccines, to product donations and our contribution GSK again stepping up the pace of
increase usage among those less able to to the London Declaration on Neglected progress in order to maintain their
access and afford our products. Tropical Diseases.
leadership position.
• Continue to invest in innovative cross-sector • Continue to support the WHO objective
partnerships to reduce child mortality. of eradicating polio by 2018 by providing
vaccines to UNICEF until this is achieved.
• Continue to work with partners to
support the strengthening of healthcare
infrastructure. We anticipate this could
improve access to healthcare for 20 million
under-served people by 2020 (vs 2012).
Wim Leereveld, Founder and CEO,
Access to Medicine Foundation
http://www.accesstomedicineindex.org/GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 13
Improving healthcare: a global challenge
Poverty is a key issue The barriers Our role
Significant progress...
but there are many other complex barriers. Treatments don’t exist GSK is responding to
Modern medicine has transformed
these challenges by:
Despite advances, more effective treatments are
millions of lives. Many illnesses
The World Health Organization recommends that needed for diseases such as tuberculosis and
that were once fatal can now be
countries need to invest at least US$ 44 per capita per hepatitis C. Developing new treatments takes
controlled or treated. many years and costs 100s of millions of pounds,
year to guarantee access to essential health services.
often with low commercial returns for diseases
29 countries still do not meet this target.
that primarily affect developing countries.
Since 1990 the global
child mortality Affordability Driving
rate has declined by
Price and a lack of resources can prevent innovative
34.4%
governments and people buying the medicines they science that
need. Price reductions can help although for the
In the... creates value
2.8 billion people who live on less than $2 a day,
Developed world Developing world even the cheapest medicines are not affordable.3 for all.
...and the challenge
Healthcare Infrastructure
• Ageing population • Lack of infrastructure
Huge problems remain. Every year • More chronic disease • Lack of eductation Many developing countries lack adequate
healthcare facilities and staff numbers. Africa Increasing
millions of people are affected by
suffers most, with 24% of the global burden
curable or preventable illness. 14.4% $8,262 6.5% $11 access to
of disease but just 3% of health workers.4
medicines
of GDP spent Luxembourg of GDP spent in Eritrea – Resistance to existing treatments
on healthcare Highest per capita on healthcare lowest per by improving
in America per annum spend in Africa capita per Resistance to antimicrobials is a global challenge.
51.4 35% annum spend This is a problem for many diseases affecting affordability.
developing countries, including malaria.
Europe per 10,000 people Africa per 10,000 people
in 1,000
Non-communicable diseases
Children who die
children die before the age of 33.2 Physicians 2 Physicians Ageing populations and the rise in obesity Investing in
before the age five whose deaths
of five.1 could be avoided mean that conditions like heart disease, cancer the treatment
and diabetes are on the rise in all countries –
20% through better nutrition. of diseases
and require treatment over many years.
Yet
of these deaths 65 Nurses + midwives 9 Nurses + midwives Non-communicable diseases already account for the
could be prevented 34m for nearly two-thirds of global deaths – and developing
with existing this is expected to increase by 50% by 2030.
vaccines. world.
People are living with Stigma and discrimination
HIV in 2011, only
Discrimination and stigma can prevent patients
8 million received
suffering from diseases such as HIV, and even
antiretroviral therapy.2
asthma, from accessing treatment.
All figures are based on World Health Statistics 2012, WHO, 1 Mortality rate, under-5 (per 1,000 live births), The World Bank 3 Hunger, Vital statistics, Resource 4 Density of physicians (total number per 1,000 population,
except where stated. 2 Global Report, UNAIDS Report on the Global AIDS Epidemic, 2012. for Speakers on Global Issues, UN. latest available year) WHO Global Health Observatory.GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 14
Innovative science to create value for all
The biggest contribution We are developing our global portfolio to meet Key innovations in 2012
Case study
the health needs of people around the world,
we can make to improving
focusing on products that will provide the We have more than 50 investigational
health is through scientific greatest value to patients and healthcare payers medicines in development, including those Joining forces in
innovation – the research and and providers. targeting cancer, diabetes and heart disease, the battle against
and four candidate vaccines. From this
development of new treatments, We do this through our substantial investment pipeline, we expect to deliver Phase III data antimicrobial resistance
vaccines and consumer in research and development (R&D), our on 14 assets by the end of 2014, and we have
collaboration with public and private partners, the potential to launch 15 new products in GSK is one of five pharmaceutical and
healthcare products. and our strong commitment to open innovation. the next three years. biotechnology companies involved in a
GSK also advocates public policies that support pioneering public-private collaboration
scientific innovation more broadly. Product launches in 2012 included Potiga for to tackle the rise of infections such as
partial-onset seizures in people with epilepsy MRSA that are resistant to antibiotics.
Meeting the health needs of the world’s poorest and Votrient for soft-tissue sarcoma (a rare
people is one of our key research objectives. but aggressive form of cancer) in the USA, The € 224 million (£180 million)
We are committed to finding newer and and Avamys for allergic rhinitis in China. NewDrugs4BadBugs programme, launched
better medicines and vaccines for patients in We have also received approval in Europe in 2012 with support from the Innovative
Medicines Initiative, aims to stimulate
developing countries1 and poorer populations for the Nimenrix vaccine against invasive
research to discover new antibiotics.
in middle-income countries. meningococcal disease and in the USA for
It is part of the European Commission’s
Fluarix Quadrivalent, our new influenza vaccine,
action plan against the rising threat of
and MenHibrix®, which combines vaccines
antimicrobial resistance.
against Haemophilus influenzae type B and
Modern medicine is dependent on effective
meningococcal groups C and Y. Our consumer
antibiotics, but bacterial infections are
healthcare division also launched 44 new
becoming increasingly resistant to existing
products in 2012, from Abreva Conceal in
treatments and the pipeline for new
our Skin Health category to new variants of
antibiotics has been described by the
Ribena tailored to the Africa market. See our
World Health Organization as ‘virtually dry’.
Annual Report for more information about
GSK brings a wealth of expertise to the
our pipeline and 2012 product launches.
programme, gained through 40 years
of experience in developing antibiotics.
£180m
£3.5bn
Size of fund to stimulate research
to discover new antibiotics
1 We use the term ‘developing countries’ to include all of the
Least-Developed Countries as identified by the UN (currently 49),
R&D investment in 2012 the countries of sub-Saharan Africa and all non-EU low-income and For more information read our position statement
middle-income countries as defined by the World Bank.GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 15
Innovative science to create value for all continued
How we innovate • create smaller research teams that are • access and catalyse innovation
Case study
closer to the science, such as our specialist through collaborations with public and
The rigorous process involved in developing multidisciplinary Discovery Performance private organisations
a promising idea into a product approved Units (DPUs) Reducing calorie and
for patient use can take up to 15 years, and • are as cost-effective as possible, including
sugar content in our drinks
many of the ideas we research will not make • invest in the best scientific opportunities identifying projects likely to be unsuccessful
it that far (see our website for more on our for new medicines, for example translating and terminating investment at an earlier
research and development process). recent discoveries in pattern recognition stage to free up resources to pursue more As part of our commitment to help
receptor biology into new treatment for promising leads. consumers make healthier choices, we
We have 12,000 people working in R&D – autoimmune diseases have signed up as a partner to the UK
all dedicated to finding new treatments By transforming our approach, we are Government’s Public Health Responsibility
that will offer the greatest benefits to • research only those treatments that offer speeding up the R&D process and making Deal. Our Ribena and Lucozade drinks
patients around the world. To help them significant improvements over existing new medicines available for patients sooner. ranges already include lower calorie
do this more effectively, we: options, such as new treatments for chronic options such as Lucozade Sport Lite, and we
obstructive pulmonary disease based on an See our Annual Report for more details are working to further reduce their sugar
improved understanding of patient needs and calorie content without compromising
on performance and nutrition.
By 2014, we have committed to cut sugar
content by 10% in our ready-to-drink
Case study Ribena products in the UK and Ireland,
and reduce calorie and sugar content
of 65% of the Lucozade Energy range
Speeding up innovation benefits melanoma patients
by 9% in the UK and 8% in Ireland
(from 2011 levels).
Our R&D organisation has been working diagnostic test to identify tumours
We are also using our scientific expertise
hard to reduce the time it takes to get new carrying this mutation and focused our
to develop innovative products such as
medicines to the market, and in 2012, we resources on conducting these trials as
Ribena Plus with vitamins A and C to
submitted two new medicines to regulatory efficiently as possible.
support the immune system, Ribena Plus
authorities less than seven years after being
The rapid development of these two with calcium for healthy bones and
identified as potential cancer treatments.
new agents is particularly important for Lucozade Revive with just 50 calories
Very early in our development programme metastatic melanoma patients. We have and B vitamins to improve energy levels.
it became clear that both dabrafenib ongoing Phase III trials of combination
(our BRAF inhibitor) and trametinib therapy with dabrafenib and trametinib
(our MEK inhibitor) had clinical activity in different melanoma treatment
against metastatic melanoma tumours settings and are investigating these
with a genetic mutation. We collaborated compounds in other tumour types with
with bioMérieux to develop a robust the genetic mutation.GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 16
Innovative science to create value for all continued
Focus on the patient Collaboration with others
Case study Case study
To guide our research, it is essential for To accelerate the discovery of new medicines
us to understand what patients need. and vaccines, we make collaboration part of Supporting scientific Catalysing innovation
Our Focus on the Patient programme our business model.
collaboration in at a new bioscience hub
brings patients to GSK sites to speak directly
In 2012 we entered into approximately Latin America and Africa
to our R&D teams about their healthcare
300 research collaborations with external 2012 saw the first businesses move into the
needs. This helps us make better medicines
public and private organisations. Through new Stevenage Bioscience Catalyst (SBC)
and inspires employees to do more to Our Trust in Science programme in Latin
our Discovery Partnerships with Academia research park. This joint venture between
help improve patients’ lives. We hosted America gathered momentum in 2012,
seven patient insight seminars at our sites programme, for example, we partner with partnering GSK teams with other scientists the Department of Business, Innovation
eight academic institutions worldwide to develop medicines for diseases affecting & Skills, GSK, the Wellcome Trust, the East
in 2012 under the theme of ‘strengthening
to develop their innovative research into the region and in 2013, we plan to extend of England Development Agency and the
the patient voice at GSK’. These brought
new medicines for unmet health needs. the programme to African countries with Technology Strategy Board aims to foster
together more than 5,520 people – including a collaborative scientific community to drive
Established in 2011, the programme already an investment of £500,000.
GSK employees, healthcare professionals, innovation in bioscience.
has nine projects underway in Europe and
patients and patient advocacy group Trust in Science now has 12 active projects
North America. Diseases targeted include Located next to GSK’s site in Stevenage, UK,
representatives – to discuss a range of in Brazil and seven in Argentina, in areas
Huntington’s Disease (a neurodegenerative the £38 million facility offers small biotech
topics including pre-term labour, rheumatoid such as tropical, neglected, metabolic and
genetic disorder) and severe pancreatitis which and life sciences companies, start-ups and
arthritis, asthma, Parkinson’s disease, systemic respiratory diseases. GSK invests around
can lead to multiple organ failure and death. academic institutions access to the expertise,
sclerosis, melanoma and Alzheimer’s disease. £1.5 million a year in Trust in Science.
networks and scientific facilities associated
We provide recordings of these seminars on Other projects with external partners are Contributions from partner institutions –
with multinational pharmaceutical companies.
a dedicated area of our intranet, enabling developing vaccines and treatments that target including the Brazilian Council of Science
It provides large-scale technical equipment
and Technology, the Foundation for
more employees to learn and benefit from neglected tropical diseases (see page 24) and
and 26 laboratories for between four and
Research Support of the State of São Paulo
these discussions. other diseases of the developing world such
25 scientists – all housed in buildings designed
and the Ministry of Science in Argentina –
as malaria and polio (see page 25). In 2012, to minimise environmental impacts. In
increase the funds available to £2.5 million
we announced plans with Aeras Global TB addition to a number of companies already
for new research annually.
Vaccine Foundation to run a multi-centre located there, SBC is also set to become a
proof-of-concept clinical trial to test the In addition, GSK is the first pharmaceutical centre of innovation for Cambridge University.
M72/AS01E vaccine candidate for TB in company to participate in the Brazilian
healthy adults between 18 and 50 years of age. government’s Science Without Borders
We are also working with the International programme, enabling PhD scientists to
AIDS Vaccine Initiative to research a vaccine work with our Discovery Performance Units
against HIV. on long-term projects at GSK laboratories
in the US, UK and Spain. Seven Brazilian
scientists worked with us in 2012 and a
further 15 will do so in 2013.GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 17
Innovative science to create value for all continued
Open innovation Many of the existing treatments for TB are GSK remains committed to sharing information
Case study
more than 50-years-old and, because they about all our clinical trials through our
To encourage innovation targeting diseases need to be taken for six months, people often Clinical Study Register and, in 2012, we
of the developing world, where there is not fail to complete the course. We hope that announced plans to enable researchers to Exploring new
the same potential commercial return as in sharing these data will speed the development access the detailed anonymised patient-level treatments for malaria
developed countries, we have changed the of essential new and faster-acting treatments data that sit behind the results of all our
at Tres Cantos
way we think about intellectual property for a disease that causes around 1.5 million clinical trials to further scientific knowledge.
and the way we work with others. deaths globally every year.
See Our behaviour on page 34 “The Open Lab has provided us with
Our Open Innovation strategy is designed This is the first time a pharmaceutical company several significant advantages in our
to promote change beyond GSK by sharing has made public its own proprietary compounds development of potential anti-malarial
Supporting researchers at our Open Lab
expertise, resources, intellectual property that demonstrate signs of activity against TB. agents. The most important being
and know-how with external researchers It follows our publication in 2010 of data on Twenty-two visiting scientists from around use of the world-class facilities, financial
and the scientific community. Although more than 13,500 compounds that could the world have made use of facilities at our support, access to a broad range of
the current focus is on diseases of the inhibit malaria, which we have shared directly open laboratory in Tres Cantos, Spain since pharmaceutical drug discovery expertise
developing world, we are already adapting with 14 research institutions around the world. its launch in 2010. There are 22 projects in the and the opportunity to collaborate in
open innovation models to apply to other Approximately 200 of these compounds have open lab portfolio, four complete, ten active an open manner. Due to the unique
areas of great medical need and scientific been included in the ‘malaria box’ created by our and six approved to start in 2013. 19 of these research environment of the Open Lab,
challenge, including infectious and rare research partner Medicines for Malaria Venture. projects are supported by the not-for-profit the challenging and ambitious project
diseases, and Alzheimer’s. The malaria box is a set of 400 compounds Tres Cantos Open Lab Foundation set up with we have undertaken has been given the
£5 million funding from GSK. We committed greatest chance of success.”
Sharing our research findings with anti-malarial activity that has been shared
a further £5 million to the Foundation in 2012,
with 120 research groups around the world. So says Matthew McConville, a postdoctoral
In 2012, we screened GSK’s entire doubling its funding for independent research.
researcher from Liverpool University.
pharmaceutical compound library of more We also contribute information on these
The Foundation, overseen by a board of He is using one of the chemical series
than two million compounds for any that compounds to the searchable public database
leading scientists, supports researchers in in the 13,500 malaria compounds we
may inhibit tuberculosis (TB) bacteria. of available resources for research on neglected
developing new medicines to treat diseases published in 2010 to explore a potential
This identified 177 promising hits that tropical diseases, tuberculosis, and malaria
of the developing world. In September 2012, new class of malaria treatments.
could act as starting points for the discovery set up by WIPO Re:Search – a collaboration
of new medicines for TB. Information on of private and public sector organisations it launched a call for proposals for projects to The Tres Cantos Open Lab Foundation is
these compounds were made available in of which GSK is a founding member. explore potential treatments for TB, malaria, providing a grant of £100,000 to fund this
Chagas disease, leishmaniasis and sleeping and other research by Liverpool University
January 2013. Through this programme, in 2012 we shared
sickness. In 2012, the Bill and Melinda Gates into new treatments for malaria at our
information and insights with the Centre for
Foundation also launched two ‘Grand Open Lab facility in Spain.
World Health and Medicine about our work on
Challenges’, seeking new research ideas
MetAp-1 inhibitors for tuberculosis, saving the
in malaria with the opportunity to come 1 3,500
Centre an estimated $50,000 and its scientist
and spend time in the Open Lab.
three months of work. POINT, the knowledge
pool we formed in 2009, has now been rolled
Malaria compounds published
into WIPO Re:Search.GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 18
Access to healthcare
We aim to significantly We adapt our range of sustainable business Affordability
Case study
models and tailor our approach to reflect the
improve access to GSK 1st
needs of countries in different markets. Lack Our innovative business models and flexible
products for the people who of access to healthcare is most acute in the GSK tops pricing help people get the vaccines and
need them around the world world’s poorest countries. Our Developing Access to Medicine Index medicines they need while building our
Countries and Market Access (DCMA) business – particularly in emerging markets –
by developing an appropriate operating unit has a clear objective to increase by increasing the overall volume of products
GSK topped the Access to Medicines Index
product range, providing patient access to GSK medicines and vaccines (ATMI) in 2012 for the third consecutive we sell. Our commitment to sustainable
vaccines and medicines at for around 800 million people in these time. This ranking by the Access to pricing includes:
countries, while expanding our market Medicines Foundation examines how • flexible pricing, based on a country’s
affordable prices in developing presence and ensuring that our business much the top 20 pharmaceutical companies wealth and ability to pay (as defined
countries, and investing in continues to be sustainable. The 700-strong are doing to improve access to medicines by the World Bank)
unit works with country managers for GSK’s in the developing world (see quote
stronger healthcare systems. businesses to provide a holistic and integrated from Index Founder Wim Leereveld, • tiered pricing for vaccines linked to gross
approach to increasing access which reflects page 12). national incomes per capita and volume
of orders
the needs of each country. Since the DCMA
With a score of 3.8 out of five, we ranked
unit was established in 2010, the volume of highest overall and achieved the highest • capped prices on our patented medicines and
medicines we supply to Least-Developed score in four of the seven categories – vaccines in the world’s poorest countries, so
Countries has increased by nearly 50% from access management, research and products sold in Least-Developed Countries
55 million units in 2010 to development, capacity advancement and (LDCs) are no more than 25% of their price
82.5 million in 2012. philanthropy, and were in the top three in the UK
in all categories.
In developed countries, we work closely with • affordability partnerships including discount
governments, healthcare providers and payers The ATMI report noted that GSK invests cards, reimbursement schemes and payment
and healthcare systems to understand their more money than any other company plans for patients in middle-income countries
needs and help ensure our products are in targeting diseases covered by the Index
available and affordable. and highlighted our partnership with • help for uninsured patients in developed
PATH-Malaria Vaccine Initiative (MVI) countries and governments facing
to develop the RTS,S malaria vaccine austerity measures.
(see page 26). It also recommended that
GSK also encourages governments to adopt
we increase the transparency of our
public policies that support differential pricing
marketing campaigns and drug recalls.
through, for example, our continued support
for the EU’s Tiered Pricing Regulation and our
work with the UK’s Industry Government
Forum on Access to Medicines.GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 19
Access to healthcare continued
Our commitment extends to treatments for (benign prostatic hypertrophy), Fraxiparine Partnering with GAVI GSK is also a leading supplier of these vaccines –
non-communicable diseases (NCDs) – such as (anti-coagulant), Ultiva (anaesthetic), Arixtra We are a long-standing partner of the and others such as Cervarix (protecting women
cancer, cardiovascular disease, mental health (venousthromboembolism – VTE), Zeffix GAVI Alliance, which funds immunisation against cervical cancer) – at affordable prices
and chronic respiratory diseases – which are (hepatitis B). All vaccines are capped at 25% programmes for some of the world’s poorest to the Pan American Health Organization
growing fast in middle and low-income of the West European average price. countries. Prices for GAVI-eligible countries which purchases on behalf of middle-income
countries. For more information on our We have also reduced the prices of our can be as little as one tenth of those for developing countries in Latin America and
approach to NCDs read here. Lengthy treatment off-patent antibiotics Augmentin and Zinnat developed countries. the Caribbean.
regimens for these conditions can be very
by up to 50% in certain countries and vaccines
expensive. We are exploring ways to increase In 2012, GAVI launched the world’s largest Case study
sold in the small private market in LDCs are
affordability by introducing smaller pack sizes mass vaccination programme against
offered at 25% of the Western European
(see case study, page 20), and researching dose pneumococcal disease in Pakistan using GSK’s
average. The GAVI Alliance and UNICEF, Extending immunisation
requirements and ways to combine drugs for Synflorix vaccine. Pneumococcal disease is
which purchase large volumes of vaccines for
patients who need two separate medications. the leading cause of death in children under against life-threatening
the world’s poorest children, always benefit
We are also introducing risk-sharing models from our lowest prices. We measure the impact five in developing countries. The programme rotavirus
in several markets. For example in Brazil, eight of these price reductions in sales volumes, in Pakistan, where 27,000 children die from
million more people have access to Tykerb since which have increased significantly, reaching pneumococcal diseases each year, is expected By offering a secure supply of our Rotarix
the successful introduction of a risk-sharing more patients. Sales of our medicines have to protect up to 4.8 million children a year. vaccine at low cost, we are helping the
scheme in 2010. This involves breast cancer increased up to 80% in some markets when Pneumococcal vaccines are expected to reach GAVI Alliance immunise 50 million children
patients using Tykerb being assessed after we have cut product prices to increase access. more than 50 GAVI-supported countries by 2015. against rotavirus by 2015. Rotavirus, and the
16 weeks and if they have not responded Flexible pricing for vaccines Synflorix was introduced in Madagascar in 2012, severe diarrhoea it causes, kills half a million
to the treatment, we reimburse the cost. and was available in Kenya and Ethiopia the children a year – one child every minute –
Our vaccines are included in immunisation
Price caps in Least-Developed previous year. We provide Synflorix to GAVI at a and is responsible for millions of
campaigns in 170 countries worldwide. In
hospitalisations and clinic visits each year.
Countries (LDCs) 90% discount through an innovative financing
2012, we delivered 0.9 billion (883 million)
Vaccines could reduce the suffering and
In the world’s LDCs we offer all GSK-patented vaccine doses, over 80% of them for use in mechanism known as the Advance Market
deaths rotavirus causes.
products 1 at heavily reduced prices. Prices are developing countries. Commitment. GSK will provide a minimum
capped at no more than 25% of their price of 480 million doses of Synflorix to GAVI to help GSK has committed to supply the GAVI
We have supported the expansion of life-
in the UK (or in France for products not sold expand immunisation programmes against Alliance with Rotarix until 2016. Because
saving immunisation programmes for nearly
in the UK) provided this price covers our pneumococcal disease in developing countries, the vaccine is being purchased in high
30 years, by offering all our vaccines at
manufacturing costs so the offer can be protecting up to 160 million children by 2023. volumes over a long time period, we have
reduced cost in developing countries using a
sustained in the long-term. been able to reduce the price to US$2.5 per
tiered pricing system, based on gross national We are also supplying GAVI with our Rotarix
dose. The GAVI Alliance aims to expand
Capped prices apply to the following brands: incomes as defined by the World Bank. vaccine against rotavirus, another leading cause rotavirus vaccinations into 46 countries
Seretide (asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary We are also able to significantly reduce the of childhood mortality (see case study). Together, worldwide. In 2012, six more GAVI-eligible
disease – COPD), Avamys (rhinitis), Flixotide price per dose by selling our vaccines – for our Rotarix and Synflorix agreements with GAVI countries introduced Rotarix into their
(asthma), Malarone (malaria), Avodart which demand is relatively predictable – in will immunise up to 250 million children by national immunisation programmes:
large volumes through longer-term contracts. 2015 – making a significant contribution to the Armenia, Ghana, Malawi, Moldova,
UN Millennium Development Goal to reduce Tanzania and Yemen.
1 Applies to individual product lines and formulations
where we are the sole supplier in that market. child mortality by two-thirds.GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 20
Access to healthcare continued
Flexible pricing and payment plans • pricing according to patient income. For equivalent efficacy to a comparator product.
Case study
in middle-income countries example, cancer patients in Hong Kong can In France, we partnered with the economic
apply for a discount of up to 50% depending committee enabling faster patient access to
GSK’s flexible pricing approach and innovative
on their income levels. Eligible patients our epilepsy treatment, Trobalt, using a ‘pay Smaller pack size
payment schemes in middle-income countries
are enabling more people to access our (assessed by a specialist NGO) pay the for performance’ risk-sharing model through makes asthma medicine
healthcare provider in full but are then which we reimburse the cost if treatment
products and helping us increase the volumes more affordable
reimbursed by the NGO, which in turn is is stopped within the first four months. We
we sell in these growing markets. For example,
reimbursed by GSK. Since the scheme was also offer a conditional and flexible pricing
sales volumes of Avodart (treatment for
Worldwide over 300 million people are
introduced for Tykerb in 2009, 186 patients structure based on results of post-registration
enlarged prostate) and Avamys nasal spray affected by asthma and the disease
have benefited and it was expanded in 2011 studies and comparative trials.
(for allergic rhinitis) grew by 11% and 20% accounts for 250,000 deaths each year.
to include Votrient and Revolade. Patients
respectively in 2012 in Emerging Markets and Patient assistance programmes in the US For many patients, oral medications are
benefiting from Votrient and Revolade
Asia Pacific. Our Market Access and Pricing the first treatment option. However,
We have several programmes that help uninsured
treatment have increased by 21% and 61%
team helps our local operating companies these provide slower relief and may
or under-insured patients in the US get the
respectively since the introduction of the
establish appropriate pricing in each market. produce more systemic side effects than
medicines they need. 356,512 eligible patients
patient access scheme. In 2012, it was
more expensive inhaled versions of the
In countries where the average national extended to cover Benlysta for lupus patients enrolled in our US Patient Assistance Programs same medications.
income level does not warrant a list price in 2012. The prescribed GSK medicines and
reduction but affordability remains a barrier • payment plans that enable patients to vaccines were worth a total of $159 million In December 2012, we launched the
for many patients, we offer a range of payment manage the cost of treatments through (£100 million). Ventolin Rotahaler/Rotacap in Indonesia.
schemes that enable more patients to afford monthly repayments – at 0% interest where This low-cost inhaler uses single dose
Programmes include:
the treatments they need more easily, often possible. For example, our repayment scheme capsules of salbutamol (a bronchodilator)
by partnering with NGOs. These include: enabled 150 patients in Peru and 1,200 in • Commitment to Access for cancer or which will be sold in small packs so patients
Brazil to access Prolia for osteoporosis in 2012. specialty treatments can buy them as needed. We aim to bring
• discount cards that enable eligible patients this product to millions of patients in more
Helping governments manage • Bridges to Access for non-specialty medicines
(such as senior citizens, disabled people or than 50 markets in Emerging Markets and
• GSK Vaccines Access Program
healthcare costs in Europe
low-income patients with chronic diseases) Asia Pacific within the next five years.
• GSK Access for senior and disabled patients
to receive direct discounts when picking up Public healthcare budgets are under immense
enrolled in Medicare Part D.
their prescriptions in our partner pharmacies. pressure in many European countries as a result
In Ukraine, we have offered asthma patients of the economic environment. We tailor our In addition to programmes for uninsured and
a discount card for Seretide for more than four approach to the needs of specific countries and Medicare Part D patients, we have co-pay
years and in 2012 it was approved for Votrient work closely with governments to achieve the assistance programmes to help patients who
5 0
for metastatic renal cell cancer best results and demonstrate value for patients, satisfy income eligibility requirements access
payers, healthcare professionals, taxpayers and more expensive oncology and immunology
our industry. medicines. We also participate in a discount
savings card programme – Together Rx Access –
In the UK for example, we committed to
for patients without prescription drug coverage. markets will benefit from
refund part of the National Health Service’s
See page 31 for information on ViiV Healthcare’s our low-cost inhaler in the
expenditure for Votrient if it failed to show next five years
US Patient Assistance Programs for HIV/AIDS.GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 21
Access to healthcare continued
Availability of our products Portfolio expansion
Case study Case study
and product registration
Access to medicines is not just dependent on
We already sell medicines and vaccines
affordability but also availability. If the right Partnering with Improving health and
in 34 of the 49 Least-Developed Countries.
medicines are not available in the right places,
Vodafone on mobile health We are committed to making new medicines nutrition in rural India
patients cannot benefit from them.
from our R&D pipeline more widely available
We work to improve availability of medicines In December 2012, we announced a new in developing countries as well as engaging Seventy per cent of the population of
by increasing product registration of new and strategic partnership with Vodafone to with regulators to enable further registrations India live in rural communities, often with
existing products across our markets, seeking use mobile technology to help vaccinate of medicines in our existing portfolio. limited access to medicines, health advice
strategic alliances and acquisitions, and more children against common infectious We anticipate that over the next few years and services. Poor nutrition frequently
expanding our presence in more African diseases in Africa. The proliferation of mobile this will include treatments for infectious exacerbates health problems in these areas,
countries through partnerships with NGOs phones in Africa offers an opportunity to diseases and non-communicable diseases particularly for mothers and children.
and UN organisations. For example, we create innovative and cost-effective ways such as asthma, depression, cardiovascular As many as half of the children living in
to overcome barriers to vaccination. rural areas of India are malnourished.
support the objectives of the UN Commission disease and cancer – which account for 63%
for Life-Saving Commodities for Women The initial focus of the new partnership of deaths globally. Our Pharmaceuticals and Consumer
and Children. will be a one-year pilot project in Mozambique Healthcare businesses in India have joined
We have begun an extensive ‘catch-up’
to establish if mobile technology could forces to promote better health and
programme of product registrations to bring
increase the proportion of children nutrition in these areas. Building on the
more of our established products to developing
vaccinated by encouraging mothers to take strong reputation of the Horlicks brand,
countries, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa.
up vaccination services, supporting health our teams offer advice and support
In 2012, we received approvals for 34 products
workers, improving record keeping, and through community organisations, local
in developing countries in the therapy areas
enabling better management of vaccine doctors and pharmacies, mobile health
of central nervous system, non-communicable
stock. If successful, the project will create vans, and deworming and health camps.
a model that can be replicated throughout diseases, respiratory, antibiotics and oncology.
We are also working with local healthcare
Mozambique and scaled across Africa.
We are also shifting our approach to the providers to increase access to medicines
launch of new products from our pipeline, such as Zentel for worm infestations and
by offering affordable options for new drugs Fesovit for iron deficiency, to treat diseases
when they first enter a market. In 2012, we that worsen the blight of malnutrition.
launched Benlysta for treatment of systematic
lupus erythematosus in Hong Kong and
simultaneously offered measures to increase
its affordability.GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 22
Access to healthcare continued
Local manufacturing Strengthening healthcare systems For the last ten years, we have supported
Case study
and capability building the work of the Network for Education and
Since 2009, GSK has reinvested 20% of profits Support in Immunisation (NESI) through
Local manufacturing increases availability,
generated in the world’s Least-Developed provision of funding to enable independent Supporting franchised
supports local economies and can cut the
costs of production and transport of products. Countries (LDCs) into community programmes vaccinology training for healthcare workers local medical clinics
to strengthen healthcare infrastructure in in sub-Saharan Africa, North Africa and the
These savings can be passed on to patients in in Kenya and Rwanda
those countries, primarily through training Middle East. Skilled and knowledgeable
the form of price reductions, however, it is
of community health workers. human resources are key to delivering
not always an appropriate strategy.
In 2012, we expanded our partnership
Through our 20% reinvestment, community healthcare services to the population and
We have a number of joint ventures and health workers are trained in basic healthcare NESI supports people-development through w enit th e rO prn ise e F ta hm ai tl y e xH te ea nl dth s a– c a c ep sr si v ta ot e
technology transfer arrangements that help delivery and act as the first point of contact its initiatives. NESI has contributed to the healthcare in rural and slum areas by
build the capabilities of developing countries for people in remote and marginalised improvement of quality and sustainable using a franchise system to enable local
to research and manufacture vaccines, while communities where the nearest health clinic immunisation programmes and provided nurses to own and operate basic medical
increasing our market access. These include new could be hours or even days away. They deliver services in low- and middle-income countries clinics known as Child and Family Wellness
joint ventures with Daiichi Sankyo to develop vaccinations, diagnose illness, administer through capacity building, education and Health Posts. By providing access to
and distribute prophylactic vaccines in Japan; medicines, provide pregnancy support, and training, and has become a key partner of finance and training, our support will
Biological E, a leading Indian vaccines company, offer hygiene, sanitation and nutritional organisations such as the WHO, UNICEF enable nurses to create 240 new health
for the research and development of a six-in- advice. This improves health, particularly and GAVI who implement vaccination posts in Rwanda over the next three years
one combination paediatric vaccine (see for women and children, and reduces the programmes in this region. in addition to the existing 80 clinics in
page 26), and our long-standing partnership
burden on the health system by managing We also help to strengthen healthcare Kenya, which already support half a
with Brazil’s Oswaldo Cruz Foundation more cases locally. systems through our initiatives to tackle million patients each year. GSK has already
covering polio, Haemophilus influenza type b committed £900,000 to the partnership
(Hib), measles, mumps, rubella, rotavirus and In 2012 we invested £3.8m (based on 2011 counterfeit medicines which are illegal to establish an initial 60 posts in Rwanda,
pneumococcal disease. See more on our profits), and this funding will contribute to and can be dangerous. and will provide £1.8million as an interest-
approach to technology transfer. the training of 10,000 health workers and free loan to enable further expansion of
See Our behaviour on page 33
reach five million people over the next the franchise network.
To strengthen health infrastructure in
three years.
developing countries, we also partner with the
Harambe Entrepreneur Alliance to fund a The 20% reinvestment programme is
Fellowship that supports African entrepreneurs, delivered through our partnership with
working on innovative solutions such as micro three non-governmental organisations with
health insurance and mobile technology in regional expertise. We work with Save the
healthcare. The Harambe GSK Fellowship has Children in West Africa, AMREF in East and
attracted over 1,200 highly qualified young Southern Africa, and CARE International in
African entrepreneurs since 2010 and Asia. By October 2012, we had a programme
empowered social and business ventures in in place in all 34 of the least developed
Nigeria, Rwanda, Zimbabwe and South Africa. countries where we made a profit in 2011.GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 23
Access to healthcare continued
20% reinvestment programmes established in 34 countries
Central African Republic Sudan 1 Afghanistan Nepal
South Sudan 1
Bangladesh
Niger Chad Bangladesh
Niger Myanmar Trained 120 community
Trained 594 community health health workers and established
volunteers to screen children for Laos 46 community support groups
signs of illness and malnutrition, Cambodia to provide essential health
and promoted local health services services, health education,
that support over 240,000 people awareness and support to over
with Save the Children. 40,000 families in the rural
Mauritania north-east of the country with
CARE International.
Mali
Senegal
Guinea Burkina Faso
Guinea
Strengthened capacity of health Yemen
workers to deliver maternal,
Djibouth
newborn and child health services
as well as family planning, helping Benin Ethiopia Tanzania and Uganda
improve the quality of healthcare Liberia Uganda
for 25,000 children under the age Sierra Leone Togo Rwanda Provided e-learning for remote
Burundi professional development of
of five with Save the Children.
nurses and midwives working
Democratic Republic Tanzania
of the Congo in rural areas with AMREF.
Angola
Mozambique
Zambia
Initiatives
34 1 We acknowledge
that Sudan split
Haiti into Sudan and
25 South Sudan in 2011
Developed and delivered ‘train the and we are running
trainer’ courses to help community Madagascar p inr o eg ar ca hm cm oue ns t ry.
health workers bring life-saving 6
healthcare to children living in
the earthquake-affected region of See our website for a Least-Developed
Léogâne with Save the Children. Haiti Lesotho full list of programmes Countries
2010 2011 2012
by country.GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 24
Diseases of the developing world
Neglected tropical diseases, We take a holistic approach, working with Our commitment Our progress to date
polio and malaria are a partners to research new vaccines and We played a leading role in the partnership In 2012, we donated our three billionth
treatments (see page 14), and make existing between the industry and the Gates Foundation albendazole tablet in the fight against LF and
blight on the world’s most ones available and affordable (see page 18), which resulted in the London Declaration – a intestinal worm infection. LF is a leading
vulnerable communities. as well as strengthening healthcare systems commitment by 13 pharmaceutical companies, global cause of disability and intestinal worms
(see page 22). governments and non-governmental organisations infect millions of children around the world,
We aim to help control
causing chronic infections that can result in
We also advocate the adoption of public to control or eliminate 10 of the 17 neglected
and eliminate these malnutrition and impair development.
policies that provide adequate financing tropical diseases by the end of the decade.
diseases to transform for mechanisms such as the GAVI Alliance Together, the London Declaration partners Our support will help to achieve the World
lives and contribute to (funding immunisation in poor countries) committed to eliminating lymphatic filariasis Health Organization’s target to deworm 75%
and the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, TB and (LF, known as elephantiasis), Guinea worm, of school age children in countries where
socio-economic development Malaria. We are on the Board of GAVI and blinding trachoma, sleeping sickness and intestinal worms are endemic. We donated
709 million albendazole treatments to tackle
in developing countries. the Roll Back Malaria Partnership, and are also leprosy; controlling soil-transmitted helminths
LF and soil-transmitted helminths in 2012,
a founding member of the Global Alliance (intestinal worms), schistosomiasis, river
and we have committed to donate up to a
to Eliminate LF. In 2012, we helped organise blindness, Chagas and visceral leishmaniasis
further billion each year up to 2020. Since
a major conference on neglected tropical by 2020. Collectively, our industry will supply
1998, half a billion people in more than
diseases at the World Bank and a Wilton Park all the drugs needed to do this. The first 50 countries have been treated with the
meeting for 60 malaria experts on the annual report on the London Declaration anti-parasitic tablet and 12 countries have
integration of new tools to achieve zero including a scorecard showing the status of now completed mass administration
deaths and elimination. each disease was published in January 2013. of the treatment.
Neglected tropical diseases
We established a dedicated NTDs unit in Researching new treatments
2012 to accelerate our contribution to this
Neglected tropical diseases (NTDs) threaten We are also investing in research into
global effort. We are tackling NTDs through
over a billion of the world’s poorest people, other NTDs through partnerships with
often preventing them from working and research, funding and partnerships. Our organisations such as the Drugs for Neglected
perpetuating a cycle of poverty. Yet very initial focus is on working to align our efforts Diseases initiative (a not-for-profit) product
with those of partners in tackling the five development partnership.
little has been invested in preventing or
diseases where treatments already exist: LF,
treating them. In 2012, we began work in partnership with the
onchocerciasis, schistosomiasis, trachoma
University of Dundee and the Wellcome Trust
and the soil-transmitted helminth diseases
to develop effective and affordable treatments
(intestinal worms).
for three neglected tropical diseases – Chagas
disease, leishmaniasis and Human African
Trypanosomiasis (‘sleeping sickness’) – which are
collectively responsible for around 90,000 deaths
each year across the developing world.GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 25
Diseases of the developing world continued
We are also partnering with the US Army Polio We produce and supply IPV at tiered prices to
Case study
and the Brazilian Ministry of Health to countries implementing immunisation
develop a vaccine for dengue, which can lead The eradication of polio came a step closer programmes, and we are working to make
to potentially fatal dengue fever. Incidences in 2012 with the removal of India from the available lower cost combination vaccines Vaccinations save
of dengue infection have increased 30-fold World Health Organization’s list of countries for the developing world that contain IPV lives in the Democratic
over the last 50 years and approximately where polio is endemic. Just three countries – alongside vaccines for other diseases such
Republic of Congo
2.5 billion people globally are now at risk. Afghanistan, Nigeria and Pakistan – are yet as diphtheria, tetanus, and whooping cough.
In 2012, Phase I clinical trials of the Dengue to be declared ‘polio-free’. We are also investing around £250 million
GSK is partnering with UNICEF on a
Purified Inactivated Vaccine (DPIV) began in We have a long history of supporting efforts in a new manufacturing facility in Wavre,
US$200,000 programme to vaccinate mothers
Puerto Rico and the US in collaboration with to eradicate polio. Early 2013 saw two key Belgium, to produce vaccines containing IPV and babies in the Democratic Republic of
the US Army and under their sponsorship. agreements that will further support polio for developed and emerging markets. Congo (DRC) where more than one in six
We are also part-funding the new London eradication. We developed the first vaccine We have also launched a new joint venture children die before the age of five.1
Centre for Neglected Tropical Disease in the 1950s and have supplied the oral polio with Biological E, a leading Indian vaccines
Children in the DRC are at risk from
Research, a joint initiative of Imperial vaccine (OPV) ever since. In 2012, we provided company, for the research and development
outbreaks of preventable diseases such as
College London, the London School of over 400 million doses to the Global Polio of a six-in-one combination paediatric vaccine.
polio and measles because they have not
Hygiene and Tropical Medicine and the Eradication Initiative, a public-private partnership The vaccine would combine our IPV and been immunised. By raising awareness
Natural History Museum. This will led by national governments and the World Biological E’s vaccine for diphtheria, tetanus, among community leaders, we are promoting
undertake innovative research into the Health Organization. We have committed to whooping cough (whole cell pertussis), the importance of vaccinations as well as
control, mapping and diagnosis of some meeting at least 30% of the Initiative’s polio hepatitis B, and Haemophilus influenzae type providing refrigeration equipment needed
of the most common NTD infections – vaccine requirements, procured through b. If approved it would enable fewer injections to store and transport vaccines.
soil-transmitted helminths and UNICEF, up to 2017 (approximately 1.5 billion for children, supporting compliance in
schistosomiasis – which impact the lives doses) and will continue to support the immunisation. We also entered an agreement In 2012, more than 2.4 million children
have been vaccinated against measles and
of around a third of the global population. initiative until every country in the world with the UK Health Protection Agency for
over 15 million against polio. Following 100
This will be the first research centre is declared ‘polio free’. the National Institute for Biological Standards
recorded cases of polio in 2010 and 93 cases
dedicated to these NTDs. OPV is relatively inexpensive and, because it and Control (NIBSC)’s non-pathogenic and in 2011, no polio cases were recorded in 2012.
is taken orally, the vaccine can be distributed genetically stable SALK-derived polio strains,
by volunteers without the need for a trained giving us the opportunity to research and
healthcare worker or sterile injection equipment. potentially develop a lower-cost manufacturing
However, in countries where polio has been platform for the IPV component of paediatric
eradicated, OPV – a live attenuated vaccine – combination vaccines. In the long term, this
will be phased out and replaced with the technology could lead to manufacturing of
inactivated polio vaccine (IPV) to prevent the this component in developing countries.
risk of polio re-emerging from the vaccine itself.
1 170 out of 1,000 live births.GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 26
Diseases of the developing world continued
Malaria Published results to date confirm that RTS,S Promoting use of existing measures
Case study
can help protect African children against Our community investment through the
Malaria is responsible for more than malaria. Follow-up results will provide more African Malaria Partnership supports local
655,000 deaths a year, mainly among children data which will provide insights into the Developing NGO programmes to promote use of
under the age of five in sub-Saharan Africa. vaccine candidate’s efficacy in different malaria new treatments preventative measures such as bed nets
Over half the world’s population is at risk parasite transmission settings, long-term and indoor spraying to control mosquitoes
from the disease. efficacy and the impact of a booster dose. As resistance to current treatments grows, in at-risk communities.
Researching a vaccine The results are expected to be publicly we are developing new medicines to treat
available at the end of 2014. malaria. We have made our anti-malarial For example, we are funding a three-year
We have been researching a vaccine against
programme with AMREF in south-east
compounds available to stimulate further
malaria for more than 25 years. Since 2001, If the vaccine is approved, we remain Tanzania that has already increased use
research in this area and malaria is a key
we have been working to further develop committed to price it at the cost of production of bed nets by more than 50% in its first
focus at our Tres Cantos Open Lab
a vaccine through a public-private partnership plus a small return of around 5% to be two years and halved malaria deaths among
(see page 17).
with the PATH Malaria Vaccine Initiative reinvested in research and development for under-fives. In Kenya, our partnership with
(MVI), aided by a grant from the Bill & second generation malaria vaccines or vaccines In partnership with the non-profit Save the Children has distributed more than
Melinda Gates Foundation. This RTS,S malaria against other diseases of the developing world. organisation Medicines for Malaria 5,500 insecticide-treated nets and reached
vaccine candidate is now in the final stages of Venture, our research is addressing
over 30,000 people over two years, and our
clinical development with a pivotal Phase III two pressing needs: treatments for
work with Family Health International in
trial underway in seven African countries drug-resistant strains of the malaria
Ghana has raised awareness of the need to
involving some 16,000 children. parasite, and treatments for the species
seek prompt treatment for malaria.
of malaria that is predominant in Asia
and Latin America (Plasmodium vivax).
Tafenoquine is an investigational medicine
we are developing for the treatment
and relapse prevention of Plasmodium
vivax malaria.
655,000
deaths a year from malariaGSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 27
Health and well-being in our communities
We fund and support Our programmes include those to develop Product and financial donations
Our giving in 2012 – breakdown by type of giving
and improve health infrastructure; health,
local programmes where
hygiene and sanitation education; medicine In 2012, GSK donated medicines valued at 3 4 1
we can leverage our core and consumer health product donations; £131 million (at cost)1 and £76 million in
capabilities and make humanitarian relief response; and science funds. Almost half our total giving – and
education to develop healthcare professionals £100 million of our product donations – was
a significant contribution of the future. These investments benefit used to support 356,512 low-income patients 2
to the health and well-being communities and bring value to our business through our Patient Assistance Programs in
of communities. by building relationships and trust with key the USA (see page 20). £m
stakeholders, strengthening our reputation £3.3 million in product donations were 1 Cash 54
2 Product and in-kind 131
and engaging employees. delivered to our partners AmeriCares, Direct 3 Time 3
We aim to increase the impact we have by Relief International, IMA World Health, 4 Management 18
partnering with local organisations, supporting MAP International and Project HOPE for Total 206
programmes designed to have a long-term humanitarian aid. These partners distributed
sustainable impact, and encouraging our donated medicines to 86 countries in 2012. Financial giving by type of programme
employees to get involved through volunteering. This included providing supplies of antibiotics, supported in 2012
basic medicines and oral hygiene items to those
1
See Our people on page 52 affected by conflicts, a cholera epidemic in
Niger, floods in the Philippines, and hurricanes 3
In 2012, our global community investment
Isaac and Sandy in the USA.
totalled £206 million ($330 million),
compared with £204 million ($328 million) We continued to invest in our PHASE
in 2011. (Personal Hygiene and Sanitation Education)
programme to prevent diarrhoea and 2
%
pneumonia by teaching children the 1 Health & well-being 56
importance of hand washing. In 2012, we 2 Education 28
began integrating oral health education into 3 Other 16
the programme, which has reached more than
1.5 million children in 16 countries since 1998.
We also provided £22.5 million in donations
of albendazole as part of our commitment to
m eliminate lymphatic filariasis (see page 24), and
£206
our cash-giving supported programmes aimed
at strengthening healthcare infrastructure
1 GSK values product donations at cost of goods as we believe this is
as part of our reinvestment of 20% of the a truer reflection of the cost to GSK than the wholesale acquisition
cost (the value cost reported to wholesalers) which is used as
profits we make in Least-Developed Countries standard in the Pharma industry for valuing product donations.
community investment The total value of product donations in 2012 based on wholesale
(see page 22).
acquisition cost was £488 million.GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 28
Health and well-being in our communities continued
Case study Case study Case study Case study
Partnering to improve Strengthening Empowering women Rethinking what it
health in Roma communities immunisation infrastructure in Latin America means to be a healthy
in Mumbai slums community in the USA
We are working with four different NGO With our support, women’s development
partners to improve access to healthcare organisation, Pro Mujer, is empowering
For the estimated eight million people In 2012, we began to convene a series of
for socially excluded Roma communities 470,000 women to overcome poverty
living in the slums of Mumbai in India, the forums to better understand the barriers
in Bulgaria, Hungary, Romania and in five Latin American countries over the
risk of disease is high but just a third of and opportunities to build healthier
Slovakia. Over five million Roma people next three years through a holistic package
children are fully vaccinated before their communities in the USA. GSK partnered
lack basic services such as clean drinking of education, healthcare and financial
first birthday. We have partnered with with the media company, The Atlantic, to
water, sanitation and healthcare. services, including loans to start their
international NGO, PATH, the Mumbai host a “Conversation about Community
own businesses.
Established in 2011, our three-year programme government and a local community-based Health” in three diverse American cities.
has already trained 87 health mediators organisation to develop a sustainable, The programme helps women gain access
The forums in Philadelphia, St. Louis and
to improve health awareness and tackle integrated approach to improving to education, training and financial support
Denver brought together hundreds of
high rates of infectious diseases and child immunisation infrastructure and increase including loans to start small businesses
community stakeholders and experts from
mortality among Roma communities. Support vaccination levels. and a proportion of the profits are
local health organisations, government,
ranges from medicines, vaccines and reinvested in their own and their families’
We worked with five health posts serving businesses and academia to discuss how
regular health checks to health education health. The programme has helped to
over 11,000 children under one year old to work together more effectively to help
and family counselling. So far, nearly educate, empower and build self-esteem
to raise awareness of the importance of people live healthier lives. Insights gained
150,000 children have benefited in 115 in women who, through improved health
vaccination, provide cold-chain storage through these discussions will help shape
Roma settlements. We are also working with and financial independence, can lift
and delivery for vaccines, and use mobile our approach to local engagement in
the EU government to develop new policies themselves and their families out
technology to record data and send text the USA and we hope help influence
that support and secure long-term funding of poverty.
message appointment reminders to local policy and decision making.
for health mediators in Roma communities.
parents. By the end of the 18-month
project, over half these children were
fully immunised. The project has created
a blueprint for immunisation programmes
in similar settings around the world.
1 1,000
children under one year old reached
through support for five health postsGSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 29
Health and well-being in our communities continued
Case study Case study Case study
Read more online
Helping sick children Improving dental Supporting migrant
go home in the UK hygiene in Southern Africa communities in We publish more detail online on key
issues including:
Shanghai, China
• Clinical trials in the developing world
We are helping the UK-based charity Our Aquafresh Dental Hygiene Programme
WellChild help seriously ill children and is teaching children in Southern Africa why • Developing world vaccine production
The New Citizen Health Care project, which technology transfer
their families by providing funding for they should brush their teeth.
we fund, is helping migrant communities
• IP and access to medicines in
three nurses who provide specialist care
Working through clinics and community in Shanghai, China, access healthcare and developing countries
and support, enabling children to leave
groups, the focus is on raising mothers’ education. Nearly 10 million migrants make • Pandemic preparedness and
hospital and be cared for at home.
awareness of improved oral hygiene up 40% of the population in the city and developing countries
The GSK-funded nurses look after over
to effectively reach the whole family. many of them do not have a residents • Technology transfer, capacity building
75 children with long-term illnesses, Aquafresh’s range of colourful toothpastes permit, or hukou, making it difficult to and developing countries
as well as providing valuable emotional
and toothbrushes also encourages children access basic services. • Working together for the health
support for their families. of mothers and children
to brush regularly.
We partnered with the Xintu Centre for
• Pricing and reimbursement
To raise awareness of WellChild’s life-
The awareness programme has Community Health Promotion, a local NGO
changing work, we ran a promotional • GSK briefing on non-communicable
already reached 900,000 children specialising in public health education, diseases in the developing world
campaign on packs of Ribena and
in Botswana, Mozambique, Namibia, to establish four community centres with • GSK position statement on the post 2015
sponsored the 2012 WellChild Awards,
Zambia and Zimbabwe. children’s playrooms, classrooms and development agenda
which celebrate the bravery of seriously
lecture rooms, to provide health education • Product donations
ill children and young people in the UK
and other services for migrant
and the dedication of health professionals
communities.
who care for them.
The project won the 2012 Financial Times/
Citi Ingenuity Award for Urban Ideas in
Action. We are planning to open another
centre in Beijing in 2013.
m
1 0
900,000
children reached migrants in ShanghaiGSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 30
HIV/AIDS
Viiv Healthcare is a global Researching new treatments transmission and HIV-TB co-infection. In total, countries, all Least-Developed Countries and
at the end of 2012, 93 clinical trials were sub-Saharan Africa – 135 countries in total.
specialist HIV company
ViiV Healthcare has made significant underway; 14 of the 93 trials are paediatric
Low-income, Least-Developed Countries and
established by GSK and investments in research to support a pipeline studies. African countries participating in the
sub-Saharan Africa are home to 75% of people
Pfizer in 2009, and joined of new antiretroviral medicines that can paediatric studies include Malawi, South Africa,
living with HIV around the world. ViiV
provide benefits over existing medicines’ Tanzania, Uganda, Zambia and Zimbabwe.
by Shionogi in 2012. Focused efficacy, side effects and resistance profiles. Healthcare offers its complete antiretroviral
Recognising the urgent need to address the gaps (ARV) portfolio at not-for-profit prices in these
on delivering advances in In December 2012, ViiV Healthcare submitted
in care and treatment of paediatric HIV, ViiV countries. Through its royalty-free voluntary
regulatory applications in the EU, the US and
treatment and care for people Healthcare expanded its commitment in this licensing policy, ViiV Healthcare enables
Canada for dolutegravir, an investigational
living with HIV, it has a broad integrase inhibitor for the treatment of HIV. area in 2012 through its Paediatric Innovation manufacturers of generic medicines to sell
Seed Fund. This includes a first-of-its-kind public/ versions of its entire ARV portfolio – this
portfolio of ten antiretroviral There are currently six clinical phase assets in private partnership with the Clinton Health commitment covers both marketed medicines
medicines and an industry- the ViiV Healthcare portfolio, as well as several Access Initiative (CHAI) and Mylan Laboratories and medicines in the pipeline once licensed.
pre-clinical discovery programmes through Limited, to submit a registration for a new In 2012 ViiV Healthcare granted three additional
leading pipeline.
the partnership with our HIV Discovery taste-masked dispersible abacavir/lamivudine voluntary licences bringing the total number
Performance Unit. These include early work formulation for paediatric use in resource- to 14; the most recent being the voluntary
identifying new therapeutic options such as limited settings. Educational grants totalling licence granted to the Medicines Patent Pool
antiretroviral drug candidates with novel approximately £3 million were also awarded Foundation for the manufacture and supply
mechanisms of action, disease modifying to five organisations to improve paediatric HIV of paediatric formulations of abacavir.
therapies and curative medicines. research, care and treatment access. Partners
In 2012 around 1.5 million patients in the
In addition, ViiV Healthcare’s research teams include the International AIDS Society, JUSTRI, developing world had access to low cost generic
build new connections and collaborations Mater Misericordiae University Hospital, versions of ARVs developed by ViiV Healthcare
with other commercial and academic amfAR’s Treat Asia Programme and the and mainly supplied by its licensees. In 2012,
organisations to improve scientific Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation. ViiV Healthcare and its licensees supplied an
understanding of HIV and work towards a Improving access to HIV treatment estimated 1.1 billion ARV tablets, compared
cure. For example, ViiV Healthcare and GSK to 717 million in 2011. However, as signalled in
scientists are members of the International More than 8 million people living with our 2011 CR report, a key patent on lamivudine
AIDS Society’s Towards an HIV Cure Industry HIV who need treatment are now receiving expired half way through 2012, meaning that
Collaborative Group, and ViiV Healthcare is antiretroviral (ARV) therapy and UNAIDS, and companies were able to continue to supply but no
a founding member of the Collaboration for the World Health Organisation (WHO) aims longer required a licence from ViiV Healthcare to
HIV/AIDS Immunological Therapy, a public- to increase this number to 15 million by 2015. do so. This means in future years we will not
private partnership launched in 2012. ViiV Healthcare is committed to playing its be reporting the volume sales by ViiV’s former
ViiV Healthcare also supports collaborative part in increasing access to HIV treatment licensees. ViiV Healthcare remains committed
In addition to this summary of ViiV Healthcare’s research trials in resource-poor settings to by taking an innovative, responsible, and to its licensing strategy, as demonstrated by the
contribution to the community response to understand public health issues such as sustainable approach. Its programmes cover agreement signed in February 2013 with the
HIV/AIDS in 2012, more information is available
online at www.viivhealthcare.com. prevention of mother-to-child HIV all middle-income countries, all low-income Medicines Patent Pool.GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 31
HIV/AIDS continued
In middle-income countries, ViiV Healthcare Supporting communities
Case study
adopts a flexible pricing policy that varies affected by HIV
according to GDP and the burden of the HIV
epidemic in individual countries. Partnerships ViiV Healthcare funds community projects Improving early infant diagnosis and treatment in Africa
with in-country companies to manufacture that support people living with HIV through
medicines locally have also been established. the global Positive Action programme, now In June 2010, ViiV Healthcare and the • In Malawi, the percentage of HIV-positive
These can reduce the cost of treatment in its 21st year. Positive Action aims to build Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation infants under 12 months old initiated
and build local manufacturing capabilities. capacity in community-based organisations, (EGPAF) began partnering on a two-year on ART grew from 10% at baseline to
A partnership with Binnopharm, the Russian enable grassroots community action and project in Lesotho, Malawi, and Swaziland 72% by August 2012. This was largely
pharmaceutical company, which enables local address stigma and discrimination. Since 2010, to improve early infant diagnosis and due to improved caregiver follow-up by
secondary manufacture of ViiV Healthcare’s the Positive Action for Children Fund (PACF) treatment (EIDT) services. By expanding staff ancillary staff trained with the support
medicines for people living with HIV in Russia has awarded a total of £13.6 million to local capacities and strengthening infrastructures, of ViiV Healthcare.
is one example. projects aimed at improving the health and the project supported efforts to strengthen • In Lesotho, the introduction of integrated
well-being of women, children and families national health systems for the long term.
prevention of mother-to-child transmission
In the USA, ViiV Healthcare’s patient affected by HIV. In 2012, ViiV Healthcare The Ministry of Health (MOH) in each (PMTCT) and paediatric care and treatment
assistance programme helps uninsured and country has been integrally involved in
committed £4 million from the Fund for services ensured that an HIV-positive
low-income patients access HIV medicines project rollout and continuity, assuring
99 projects in 26 countries. This includes mother and her infant could continue
and its Patient Savings Card programme its continued sustainability with minimal
renewed support for 84 grassroots community receiving care from the same nurse
provides savings for eligible patients who external support to project sites.
projects that are making a tangible difference throughout the PMTCT cascade. As a
have out-of-pocket prescription costs. From
in 21 countries. Altogether Positive Action, As of 2012, all 13 project sites were showing result, the percentage of HIV-positive
the start of 2013, the rate of reimbursement
the PACF and community grants disbursed encouraging increases in early infant diagnosis infants initiated on ART climbed from
will be increased from $100 to $200 per by ViiV Healthcare’s local operating rates and treatment uptake. Nearly 6,000 79% to 100%, and helped the MOH to
medication per month. ViiV Healthcare also companies gave support to over 300 HIV infants had been tested (78% at the critical identify infected children previously lost
supports Welvista, a non-profit programme community organisations in 2012. Find out age of eight weeks old), and 79% of those after referral to distant ART services.
that facilitates access to HIV medications for more at www.viivhealthcareeffect.com. infants who tested positive for HIV were
• In Swaziland, the paediatric HIV training
nearly 6,000 people on the waiting list for initiated on antiretroviral therapy (ART).
curriculum developed with the support
the US Government’s AIDS Drug
of ViiV Healthcare has been integrated
Assistance Program.
into existing MOH nurse training, ensuring
sustainability and government ownership.
Also, as a result of project advocacy by
the MOH, the Swaziland Nurses’ Code of
Practice was amended to allow nurses to
initiate ART nationwide, improving patient
access to ART and bringing ART services
closer to populations in need.GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 32
Our behaviour
In focus
From 2013, researchers will be able to
access detailed anonymised patient-level
data from our clinical trials.
Read more on page 33
In this section
Overview 34
Ethical standards and principles 35
Sales and marketing 38
Working with healthcare professionals 40
Research practices 41
Manufacturing and supply chain 45
Public policy and patient advocacy 48
Our approach to tax 50GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 33
Our behaviour
In focus Access to patient-level data from clinical trials
How we deliver success is just as can be valuable for researchers who want to
Opening up learn about existing medicines and improve
important as what we achieve. patient care. For a number of years GSK has
access to responded to external requests for patient-level
We put the interests of patients and data on a case-by-case basis. Going forward,
trial data we will allow researchers to request anonymised
consumers first and are driven by our patient-level data from our published clinical
trials of approved or terminated medicines.
values – transparency, respect, integrity, This will enable researchers to examine trial
data more closely or combine data from
patient-focus – in everything we do. different studies to conduct further research.
This takes our commitment to openness and
transparency of clinical trials one step further.
We already publish summary results –
Our values are backed up by a clear Code of Conduct, robust compliance
whether these are perceived to be positive
systems, and training and support that help employees make the or negative – of every research trial on
the GSK Clinical Study Register. Almost
right decisions. Our standards extend to our suppliers and contractors.
5,000 clinical trial result summaries are now
available and the site receives an average of
There are many ethical issues associated with the research and
almost 11,000 visitors each month. In early
development (R&D), manufacture and sale of our products, and our
2013 we outlined our plans to add Clinical
relationships with healthcare professionals, patients and regulators. Our new plans acknowledge Study Reports onto the Register in the future.
We need to be honest and transparent about how we address these, the commitment of Individuals participate in our research trials
putting more information in the public domain so that people can individuals who participate in the hope they might bring advances in
healthcare. Our new plans acknowledge
see for themselves how we operate. in research trials.
their commitment and reflect our desire
to ensure that their contribution can lead
We are open to challenge and discussion and not afraid to change
to health gains, while safeguarding
how we work to reflect society’s expectations. their confidentiality.
To ensure data is used for valid scientific
reasons, an independent panel will review
each request before allowing access.
Researchers will be able to submit requests
via a dedicated website and, where approved,
information will be provided via a secure
IT environment.GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 34
Overview
2012 at a glance
Ethical standards and principles Commissioned an independent Our commitments External perspective
review of our drug safety processes
Revised and simplified our Code of Conduct for detecting adverse events • C ontinue to drive a values-based approach
to make it easier for employees to understand across the life cycle of a product. to sales and marketing practices across
how to apply GSK values and behaviours. the world, with the interests of consumers
When Andrew Witty gave the keynote
See page 43 and patients at its core.
See page 35 speech at the annual Pears Business
Manufacturing and supply chain • Continue to ensure the interests and Schools Partnership lecture 2012,
safety of patients and consumers are of
he gave us a valuable insight into
Established a Human Rights Steering Group paramount importance in the way we
of senior managers to oversee our approach design and undertake our clinical trials, what it means to be a responsible
our product quality assurance and our leader in a world of intense connectivity
to applying the UN Guiding Principles
of Business and Human Rights. monitoring and reporting of adverse events and enforced transparency. He asked
in ongoing product usage.
all of us in any position of authority:
See page 36
• Rigorously challenge the need for animal ‘what are you going to do with the power
studies and work to minimise the impact you’ve been handed and entrusted with?’.
on animal welfare, by investing in the Driving this message throughout an
development of alternative studies and
organisation like GSK is undoubtedly
Sales and marketing sharing animal-based data.
challenging, but essential to create
Reached a settlement with the US • Address the UN Guiding Principles on a truly values-based business.
Government to resolve long-standing Added anti-counterfeiting technology to Human Rights & Business across our own
legal issues around our sales and 31 products in China, resulting in a significant operations and our supplier relationships.
marketing practices. reduction in the number of reports of fake
• Be as transparent as possible with our
See page 38 GSK medicines reaching the market. 31 clinical trial data, including publishing
clinical study reports (without patient-level
See page 47
data) for all outcome trials of medicines
conducted by GSK and, within an appropriate
Research practices process, making available to researchers
Public policy and patient advocacy access to anonymised patient-level data to
Committed to provide access to anonymised
further scientific enquiry.
trial data from published clinical trials Published a list of memberships of trade
of our authorised or terminated medicines. associations that primarily represent • Demonstrate that all GSK interactions
This is in addition to disclosing the results of pharmaceutical, consumer product, and with patient advocacy groups and political
our research on our publicly accessible Clinical vaccine businesses at the national, regional, stakeholders are conducted appropriately,
Study Register website which receives an and international levels. ethically and transparently. Professor David Grayson,
average of almost 11,000 visitors a month. Director of the Doughty Centre for Corporate Responsibility
See page 48 at Cranfield School of Management
See page 41 11,000 http://www.som.cranfield.ac.uk/som/p14340/Research/
Research-Centres/Doughty-Centre-HomeGSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 35
Ethical standards and principles
Ethical conduct is a priority In 2012 we revised and simplified our Code Living our values Scientific engagement
of Conduct to make it easier for employees
for GSK. Failure to uphold
to understand how to apply the GSK Values We are focusing on integrating a values-based Our Scientific Engagement policy, established
high ethical standards can and Behaviours. A number of key principles culture within GSK. Our employee survey in 2011, explains the principles by which we
erode trust in our company previously covered in other policies have now results from 2012 reflect our efforts to engage in external scientific activities, such
been integrated into the Code. It is available integrate a values-based culture at GSK. as advisory boards, publications, scientific
and our products, damage in 28 languages, and supported by a new 93% of respondents stated they understand congresses and medical education. It reinforces
our reputation, and result online Policy Resource Centre that provides what constitutes ethical business practices a clear distinction between scientific and
information, support and training for employees and conduct in their job. promotional activity at GSK, and ensures that
in serious financial
on related topics. The revised Code is also Our annual Business Ethics Certification, all scientific activities are carried out in a way
or legal consequences. publicly available on our website. which has managers confirm compliance that reflects our values. In 2012 we established
an internal quality assurance group to monitor
All GSK employees have access to whistleblowing with the Code of Conduct, is being revised implementation of these practices.
mechanisms that they can use to get advice, and will be re-launched in 2013 and over
and to report suspected cases of misconduct – 33,000 managers will be asked to undertake Bribery and corruption
anonymously if required. this training. The new approach will help
We have a zero-tolerance approach to bribery
to reinforce the role of leaders to inspire the
and corruption, as set out in our Preventing
right behaviour and create a safe environment
Corrupt Practices policy. Our anti-bribery and
for employees to ‘speak up’. Key leadership
corruption programme is reviewed by our
development programmes have been updated
Audit and Risk Committee on an annual basis.
to reflect the principles of living our GSK Values
Our performance is reviewed by our anti-
in every day decision making.
bribery and corruption oversight committee,
Medical governance which meets monthly – and we have a team
to help implement our policies.
We have a system of principles, policies
and accountabilities – known as medical
governance – designed to make sure our
research and other activities are conducted
to recognised standards and in line with our
values. Responsibility for medical governance
sits with our Chief Medical Officer and
his organisation.GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 36
Ethical standards and principles continued
Human rights Management of human rights is embedded Privacy Our BCRs comprise various elements,
in our business, including through: including internal corporate policies,
We are committed to upholding the UN Data protection and security continues to standards, training programmes, and audits.
Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the • employment standards covering topics such be a high priority for us. Our global privacy The Global Privacy Office has developed
OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises as diversity, equal opportunities, health and principles ensure that all personal data are and rolled out a robust privacy awareness
and the core labour standards set out by the safety (see page 52) collected, used, processed, transferred, and and training programme, which includes
International Labour Organisation (ILO). • supplier standards and audits that help us stored appropriately, securely, and in line training modules on our global privacy
GSK is a signatory to the UN Global Compact, to promote human rights in our supply chain with legal requirements. We are committed principles and BCR standards.
a voluntary global standard on human rights, (see page 45) to exercising the highest standards of integrity
labour, the environment and anti-corruption. in dealing with and protecting personal data In 2012 our Audit and Assurance group
• systems to protect the rights of people taking and require all employees and suppliers to performed independent audits of our
We support the Guiding Principles on Business part in our clinical trials (see page 41) comply with our global privacy principles. compliance with the privacy policies
and Human Rights endorsed by the United • our efforts to improve access to healthcare The Global Privacy Office oversees the privacy and standards as well as applicable laws.
Nations Human Rights Council in 2011. which help to promote the right to health processes and communicates best practices In addition, we are implementing data
We are reviewing our policies and processes (see page 18) throughout GSK. privacy monitoring programmes in each
to make sure they reflect the Principles and business unit across the enterprise. The Global
we have established a Human Rights Steering Read more online in our human rights statement. While awaiting approval from the UK Privacy Office identified the key privacy
Group of senior managers to oversee our Information Commissioner’s Office of our controls to be included in the monitoring
approach. This steering group includes Activities in embargoed countries Binding Corporate Rules (BCRs) submission, programs to ensure consistency. The data
representatives from functions such as human in 2012 we continued to implement the collected from these monitoring activities is
Some stakeholders are concerned about our
resources and procurement and is chaired critical elements of BCRs required by UK given to the Global Privacy Office for analysis
business activity in countries targeted by
by our Senior Vice President for Governance, and European data protection regulations and trending to determine whether internal
sanctions laws, such as Cuba, North Korea,
Ethics and Assurance. By 2015 we will have to transfer personal data to affiliates located controls are effective.
Iran, Sudan and Syria. We share the UN’s belief
a plan in place to address any gaps identified outside of the European Economic Area. Once
that people should not be denied access to
in our review. approved and fully implemented, our BCRs
medicines because of the regime operating
will improve the efficiency of transfers of
in their country. We aim to provide medicines
personal data within the company and
and vaccines in all countries that need and
increase confidence in the security of the
wish to purchase them, while observing
personal data with which we are entrusted.
applicable sanctions and export controls.
The scope of our BCRs cover personal data
We comply with the disclosure requirements
held on our employees, research subjects, and
of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human
healthcare professionals who we partner with
Rights Act of 2012.
in research.GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 37
Ethical standards and principles continued
Compliance Addressing misconduct maintain and build on our strong track record Breaches of external codes
of compliance. Additionally, our continued
All managers must ensure compliance with In 2012 more than 1,600 contacts (2,700 in focus on manufacturing quality is seen We collect information on breaches of external
company policies in their areas of responsibility, 2011) were made through our ethics and through an increase in disciplinary numbers industry or government promotional codes
and our Corporate Ethics and Compliance compliance channels – a mixture of allegations in the Good Manufacturing Practice/Good by our commercial businesses. We were found
department investigates suspected legal, of misconduct and requests for information Distribution Practice (GMP/GDP) category in to be in breach of external codes 25 times
ethical or policy violations. or guidance. the same time period. Other categories have in 2012 compared with 35 times in 2011.
Employees can report concerns or suspected In 2012: remained broadly consistent over that time. We investigate every breach of an external
code and take steps to prevent a reoccurrence,
cases of misconduct through a variety of • 2,919 employees (1,828 in 2011) were Employees who remain with the company which may include retraining or other corrective
channels, including our confidential ‘Speak disciplined for policy violations following a policy violation receive retraining action, including disciplinary action.
Up’ integrity line, which is available in and increased monitoring or support. In some
70 different languages. In 2013 we will • of these, 312 were dismissed (308 in 2011) cases retraining is extended to an employee’s
standardise reporting channels so that all or agreed to leave the company voluntarily colleagues to prevent them from making
employees, wherever they are based, can report (known as separations) similar mistakes.
in a consistent way, and we will refresh our
• other disciplinary actions included
awareness campaign to encourage employees
2,067 documented warnings (1,520 in 2011) Types of policy violations in 2012
to get help or report concerns.
• 123 of the policy violations related to 1
We fully investigate suspected breaches in
breaches of sales and marketing codes
a confidential manner and take disciplinary
(66 in 2011). These resulted in 13 dismissals
action, up to and including dismissal, where
or separations and 110 documented warnings. 5
appropriate. Serious violations of our policies
4
are reported to the Audit and Risk Committee We believe the increases seen in 2012 and
of the Board. in 2011 are due to our increased focus on 3
2 %
‘Attendance and payroll category’ violations
1 Attendance, payroll 50
(1,456 and 695 respectively). These attendance
2 GMP/GDP* 10
issues are mainly reported from our 3 Code of Conduct 9
manufacturing business where we have 4 Marketing and promotional activities 4
5 All other policy violations 27
implemented tighter controls to ensure we
Total violations in 2012 = 2,919
* GMP/GDP relates to Good Manufacturing Practice, Good Distribution PracticeGSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 38
Sales and marketing
Our goal is to drive a values- To reflect our commitment to consistently We reinforce our codes and policies through While the issues in question originated in
high standards, we launched a new Global training and compliance procedures and a different era for our company, they cannot
based approach to sales and
Code of Practice for Promotion and Customer by making sure the way we pay sales teams and will not be ignored, and we have learned
marketing practices across Interactions in 2012. This applies to all reinforces our values. from them. Over several years, in the USA,
the world, with the interests employees involved in sales and marketing Settlement with the US government we have taken action at all levels in the
as well as third parties acting on our behalf. company and have enhanced and improved
of consumers and patients
It covers areas such as providing information In 2012 we agreed to make payments of our procedures for compliance, marketing
at its core. This applies and fees for service payments to healthcare $3 billion relating to investigations in the and selling based on our values of
to the sale of our consumer professionals, samples, hospitality, grants and USA over long-standing legal issues around our transparency, respect, integrity and patient
donations. It states that marketing and sales and marketing practices. As a condition focus. When necessary, we have removed
products and to the
promotional activities must conform to high of the settlement, we entered into a Corporate employees who have engaged in misconduct
marketing of our prescription ethical, medical, and scientific standards, be Integrity Agreement (CIA) with the Office of and have broadened our ability to claw back
based on valid scientific evidence, and comply Inspector General (OIG) of the US Department remuneration from senior management
medicines and vaccines
with all applicable laws, regulations, and of Health and Human Services, under which in the event of misconduct.
to healthcare professionals, industry codes. All sales and marketing we will build on our existing comprehensive
hospitals and governments. employees are being trained on the compliance programmes.
revised code.
The criminal plea related to aspects of the
All employees and third parties involved in marketing of Paxil for paediatric use and of
sales and marketing must also follow their Wellbutrin for certain uses, and for failure to
business area’s commercial practice policies include information about the initiation or
and marketing codes as well as our global status of certain Avandia studies in periodic
scientific engagement principles. and annual reports submitted to the US Food
and Drug Administration. The civil portion
Voluntarily in 2011 we also implemented a
of the settlement, in which we made no
new system for evaluating and compensating
admission of liability beyond the admissions
our sales professionals in the USA who work
in the criminal plea as to Paxil and Wellbutrin,
directly with prescribing healthcare professionals.
resolved allegations from three separate
The new system, called Patient First, bases
investigations, one into the sales and
incentive compensation primarily on sales
marketing of nine of the company’s products;
competency, customer evaluations and the
the second into certain nominal pricing and
overall performance of their business, rather
alleged bundled sales arrangements; and the
than the number of prescriptions they generate.
third into the company’s promotion
We are currently exploring how we can take
submissions of Avandia.
learnings from the ‘Patient First’ programme
with a view to informing our global approach
to sales incentives.GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 39
Sales and marketing continued
Implementing the Direct-to-consumer marketing of Marketing to children
Corporate Integrity Agreement prescription medicines
Our guidelines for advertising to children
To date, 11,000 employees covered by the
We advertise our prescription medicines prohibit advertising to children below the
CIA have completed a total of 79,000 hours
directly to consumers in the USA and local legally mandated minimum age or where
training on its requirements. The GSK Board
New Zealand. Direct-to-consumer (DTC) it is inappropriate. We will not market our
of Directors and about 300 vendors have also
advertising of prescription medicines is not drinks products to under 16-year olds unless
been trained, and 400 GSK managers have
permitted in other markets. the product delivers an appropriate nutritional
completed additional compliance training.
benefit for children in the country where the
We have improved and updated more than All DTC advertising in the USA is governed by
products are marketed and we will promote
153 policies and procedures. We established our DTC Communications policy, based on
our drinks products responsibly, ensuring
the Controls Centre of Excellence to enhance the PhRMA Guiding Principles: Direct
all advertising, sponsorships and messaging
monitoring in our business and established to Consumer Advertisements about
are appropriate to the nutritional benefit.
risk mitigation plans for all of our Prescription Medicines. All our DTC
Sports star sponsorship is important to brands
marketed products. advertising in the USA is reviewed by legal,
such as Lucozade Sport. Our guidelines state
regulatory or medical specialists and new
We are reporting progress regularly to that only people who set an appropriate
DTC television advertisements are submitted
the US government and there will be an example should be used for sponsorship, and
to the US Food and Drug Administration
independent audit in 2013. While we have they should have an appeal that is not solely
(FDA) for review and comment prior to
completed the implementation of the CIA’s to children below the age of 13.
broadcast. We do not advertise erectile
requirements, the work doesn’t end here.
dysfunction medicines on television.
Next steps are to continue to raise awareness
of the revised policies and practices, to In 2012, our US Pharmaceuticals business
monitor for compliance and to live our did not receive a Notice of Violation or
values every day. Warning Letter from FDA on its advertising
or promotion.GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 40
Working with healthcare professionals
Doctors and other healthcare We believe that HCPs and healthcare You can read more about how we work with In the UK, from March 2013, GSK and other
organisations (HCOs) that we work with should HCPs on page 38 and in our Global Code healthcare companies will start to report
professionals (HCPs) are
be fairly compensated for services and expertise of Practice for Promotion and Customer annually the payments made to HCPs in the
valuable partners for GSK, they provide to us. However, payments must Interaction online. previous year at an aggregate level. These will
providing us with scientific not be excessive and must never be an Transparency cover payments made to HCPs for advising
inducement or reward for prescribing our and consulting services, financial support
and medical expertise and
products. We have clear standards, aligned We have committed to publishing (sponsorship) as well as grants and donations
insights into patient care. to international and regional codes of practice the payments we make to HCPs and HCOs. to healthcare organisations.
and appropriate country laws and regulations,
We believe this partnership Doing this in all of the countries that we During 2013, we are also planning to publish
which govern these payments and help
is fundamental to the operate in is a complex and challenging task. information on HCP payments in a number
safeguard against this risk.
We need to align our systems across over of other countries where specific reporting
progress of medical science
We work with HCPs and HCOs in a number 100 countries and multiple currencies and requirements are being introduced.
and helps meet patient of ways: meet the different regional and country
Over the coming years we will continue to
reporting requirements which are being
and public health needs. • conducting research: HCPs conduct clinical support and work towards transparency in
introduced. To achieve this we are introducing
research on our behalf, acting as investigators other countries as industry associations or
new processes to gather data more effectively
who are responsible for overseeing the study. governments establish specific guidelines
and accurately across our business.
Their expertise, insight and resources help us for disclosure.
to develop and deliver new patient treatments In the last few years we have started to
We also continue to work towards publishing
publish information in several countries and
• advising and consulting: HCPs provide global figures at an aggregate level for HCP
supported the introduction of locally agreed
expertise and insight to GSK advisory panels, payments including advising and consulting,
government or industry association standards.
for example, on specific diseases or identification financial support (sponsorship), grants and
of symptoms and diagnosis. They may also In the USA, payments made to HCPs at an donations and for conducting research.
speak on our behalf about products and individual level for speaking and consulting As a UK-based company, we will use the UK
disease or therapy areas relevant to us have been published since 2009. In 2010, we standard as the basis for our approach to
began disclosing payments made to institutions reporting these global figures.
• financial support: sponsorship may be
and HCPs acting as lead investigators for
provided to an HCP to help them attend Separately, we also publish information on
assisting with clinical research studies. From
local or international meetings which must community investment grants and product
Q4 2012 we have aligned our reporting to new
be scientific, medical and/or educational. donations on page 27 and on grants we
US Government requirements and you can
Our support is limited to registration fees and make to patient advocacy organisations on
read more online.
reasonable travel, meals and accommodation. page 49.
In Australia, we have published aggregate
• grants and donations: these may be made
payments made to HCPs and HCOs since
in response to unsolicited requests from
2010 and actively supported the adoption of
HCOs to support healthcare or medical or
industry association standards in 2012.
scientific research. We do not receive any
service, privilege or benefit in return.GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 41
Research practices
Patient safety is our priority Some aspects of research can raise ethical In 2012 we conducted 293 clinical quality In 2012 we reviewed our informed consent
concerns, including those relating to animal assurance assessments to confirm that the documentation and procedures for paediatric
through all stages of research
and clinical research and the use of emerging conduct of trials reflects our standards, including: studies. This review led us to enhance our
and after a new product goes technologies. We aim to address these by being procedures for identifying variations in relevant
• 190 investigator sites conducting GSK-
on sale. We are open about transparent about our practices and regularly local laws and to simplify our informed
sponsored clinical trials, representing around
engaging with academics, scientists, regulators, consent language.
how we work and we disclose 5% of the sites that provide the primary
policymakers and other stakeholders.
data on which regulatory approval is based Transparency of clinical research
the results of clinical research.
Clinical research
• 14 GSK processes, including data quality, We are committed to reporting the results of
Our high ethical and quality
Clinical trials in healthy volunteers and protocol development and clinical clinical research that evaluates our medicines
standards apply to all our patients enable us to assess an investigational study reporting and vaccines, irrespective of whether the
research and development, medicine’s potential or further evaluate the outcomes are perceived to be positive or negative.
• 26 contract research organisations carrying
medicine once it has been approved for We believe this is fundamental to the
wherever it takes place. out clinical trials on our behalf
marketing. We conduct trials in accordance advancement of medical science and helps
with the Good Clinical Practice (GCP) • 11 GSK local operating companies involved to inform prescribers and patients about
guidelines developed by the International in clinical trial activities findings relating to our medicines.
Conference on Harmonisation, and based on
• five New Drug Application (NDA) Annual We do this by:
the principles contained in the World Medical
Reports were reviewed prior to submission
Association Declaration of Helsinki on the • posting the results of our research on our
to the US Food and Drug Administration
Ethical Principles for Medical Research publicly accessible Clinical Study Register
(FDA) – these provide an update on the status
Involving Human Subjects (2008). website. This receives an average of almost
of each study completed or in progress.
11,000 visitors a month, and by the end
Trial protocols are reviewed by an ethics
In addition, 47 investigations were conducted of 2012 contained almost 5,000 results
committee that is independent of GSK and is
in response to suspected irregularities at summaries posted since it was launched
made up of members of the public, medical
investigator sites, contract research organisations in 2004. In early 2013 we announced plans
professionals and scientists. An ethics
and our own local operating companies. We fully to expand the Register to include Clinical
committee has the power to reject or stop
investigate any concerns or issues identified, Study Reports.
a clinical trial.
and take corrective action where appropriate.
• seeking to publish all research results as full
Training and auditing for clinical research
Independent regulatory authorities also papers in peer reviewed scientific journals.
All employees must complete training on performed 94 inspections of GSK and the Since we made this commitment in 2009 we
GCP before undertaking any roles relating to investigators we use to conduct clinical have submitted 2,100 articles for publication.
GSK-sponsored clinical research. In 2012 there trials in 2012.
In October 2012 we announced a new
were 49,182 GCP-related training activities.
commitment to help researchers access
Each of these represents the successful
anonymised patient-level data from our
completion of an e-learning module or
clinical trials.
instructor-led course.GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 42
Research practices continued
Also during 2012, along with other Clinical trials in developing countries One of the trials highlighted, known as Oasis-6, Patient safety
pharmaceutical companies, we collaborated Clinical trials are essential to ensure that investigated a GSK product fondaparinux
with journal editors as part of the Medical innovative vaccines and medicines can be (Arixtra) in preventing repeat heart attacks. All medicines have potential risks as well as
Publishing Insights and Practices Initiative delivered to treat diseases such as pneumonia, We did not set up or run the study but benefits, although not everyone who takes
to identify steps to improve the credibility cancer and diabetes. It is important that purchased the study medicine, Arixtra, in 2004 a medicine will experience side effects. It is
of industry-sponsored research. The result was vaccines and medicines are evaluated in a from another pharmaceutical company when important that we identify, evaluate and
a publication, ‘Ten Recommendations for broad population and in countries where they the study was already underway. Given that minimise safety concerns to ensure the overall
Closing the Credibility Gap in Reporting will be used. In some countries, such as India, patients were being enrolled and receiving benefits of a medicine outweigh any risks.
Industry-Sponsored Clinical Research’ regulatory authorities require local trials to be medication, we took the view that the trial The safety and effectiveness of new medicines
highlighting opportunities for improvement. run before medicines can be licensed there. should be able to continue. must be demonstrated through clinical trials
cM G aiml lS i la n K p rn ei o cy p sra u r to la a l f tc s n sttt tuih pc d ce e uls is biee , n ls i ia i n ca cr .c ae nl ldua ql dr p ue i un ea b sd g tl y iit oc hc a no e t s v in o ae e nr ne e s dd d a tw dt oo d i mt reh en ai sn s s ku e r e W dr me ece avo yer g u l nonn opi s tic e n bl i gt en h ci aac o sta u dl r n u et tr vn ri ea in e ll ois sn , pw g w eo dc hr ,l el i cd n r aew i n c hi a d bele a et, l r t ca i ha hn l ad ss le i lw r en v ne i gce ins g. W gc wo oae n os d d r ce u o cv c n li ite ndew d u ice ca ad tn le t pddh r ae w ac cfi e c trn o ie crd edsi a sn int tg i agss nfi tf de or ado i r m nt dh t s er .a o rt n u t ahti ten io e s nt a u au d l d yi ts wm r nb ae uhraf meo er k nr a bee n eat n di r n p se m g rw oo. f a dS p y po ur ao om c ttd n i eeu il nsypc t bt o b ss e .s e ic s W ndia b gn e el te ue hb s sce ai etd ve da ee dp b pep a yf or ff o t l le ae iv c cr re t i g es ad e spa f p aro e nrr o v dve ar ly
No matter where in the world our clinical One of the trial sites used for the study was processes to help us detect and act on any
trials take place, the safety and well-being in Bhopal, India which was the site of a gas such ‘adverse events’.
of patients participating in our trials is our disaster in 1984. GSK has not and does not
number one priority. We conduct all of our intend to run clinical studies in Bhopal. Our Global Safety Board makes decisions
clinical trials to the same high scientific The site in Bhopal was inspected by the on product safety issues; its remit is to ensure
and ethical standards, following strict Indian regulator and its report concluded that safety is a focus throughout product
international regulations and guidelines. the study was generally well run according to development and to review GSK products
In 2012, concerns were raised about the international good clinical practice standards on the market. The Board is chaired by the
conduct of clinical trials in India. These and that informed consent had been obtained Chief Medical Officer and composed of senior
concerns related to gaining approval for from participants. physicians and scientists.
trials, ensuring proper informed consent The safety of clinical trial participants is of To further improve our patient safety systems
and providing compensation for trial paramount importance to us, and we take in 2012, we created an internal medicine risk
participants where appropriate. any concerns about the conduct of clinical management advisory panel of senior GSK
trials very seriously. We continue to review staff to act as a forum for sharing information
our procedures to ensure that we conduct our and best practice within the company.
sponsored clinical research to the highest
possible scientific and ethical standards.GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 43
Research practices continued
Pharmacovigilance External initiatives to improve Animal research
Case study
Pharmacovigilance relates to the understanding patient safety
Animal studies remain a vital part of our
and reduction of adverse effects from medicines. We work with government officials, industry
Working in partnership research. In many cases they are the only
In 2012 we commissioned an independent partners and policy makers to improve
method that can be used to demonstrate the
to accelerate and standardise review of our drug safety processes that safety systems for medicines and vaccines.
effects of a potential new medicine in a living
clinical development confirmed GSK’s high standards on detecting In 2012 we were involved in several
body before it is tested in humans. Animal
adverse events across the life cycle of a product. programmes, including:
research can also provide vital information
GSK has helped to create a new partnership We also provided input into the development • the Cardiac Safety Research Consortium, about the causes of diseases and how they
to speed up development of medicines of pharmacovigilance regulations introduced a collaboration between industry, regulators, develop. Regulations require us to test all
by improving and standardizing clinical by the European Commission to raise public and academia to improve cardiac safety new medicines on animals before they are
development practices. TransCelerate
confidence in safety monitoring, and have throughout drug and device development. evaluated in clinical trials. Some countries
Biopharm Inc is a joint initiative among ten
provided training for GSK employees on We published several papers as lead authors, require additional animal testing even when
pharmaceutical companies and will focus on
the regulations. shared data and led or participated in medicines have been approved for use
solutions that can enhance patient safety, reduce
several research projects elsewhere.
costs and streamline clinical development.
• PROTECT, a 33-partner European project Ultimately GSK would like to see the benefits
GSK is involved in five areas of work with
managed by the European Medicines of research being applied to humans without
TransCelerate:
Agency, which looks to improve the need for animal testing. But we do not
• developing an industry-wide standard and
pharmacovigilance techniques believe this can be achieved in the foreseeable
approach for risk-based monitoring of
future. While animal research remains necessary,
clinical trials in order to enhance patient • the European Programme in Pharmaco-
we are committed to acting ethically and
safety and ensure the quality of data vigilance and Pharmacoepidemiology,
providing for the animals’ health and well-being.
• launching a shared portal for investigators a new venture that we helped to establish
involved in trials to streamline access to which will provide training on To further improve our practices on animal
critical information pharmacovigilance to students and research and welfare, in March 2012 we
• introducing standardised Good Clinical healthcare professionals. created The Office of Animal Welfare, Ethics
Practice training and qualification for and Strategy (OAWES), led by our Chief of
investigators that will be recognised by Veterinary Medicine. The new Office is
all participating companies responsible for developing and reviewing
• partnering with the Clinical Data Interchange policies, and overseeing the humane and
Standards Consortium to develop standards responsible use of animals across GSK. Current
that support the exchange of clinical trial OAWES initiatives look at how to make animal
data for priority disease areas science modelling more robust, how IT can
• establishing reliable and quick sourcing help provide better analysis of data gathered
of quality comparator drugs for use in through animal research, and how to increase
clinical trials to enhance patient safety the use of non-animal research alternatives.
and accelerate trial timelines.GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 44
Research practices continued
We apply the same principles to studies We encourage a 3Rs culture through regular Performance in 2012 Percentage change in animal use
conducted by external contractors on our training of staff involved in the care and use In 2012 the number of animals used was 22% compared to key drivers of animal use
behalf as we do to those carried out within of animals, raising awareness of the 3Rs, lower than in 2000 while the two main drivers %
GSK facilities. Over the past four years our and encouraging best practice. We recognise of animal use – R&D investment and vaccine 300
animal quality assurance group has assessed employees who have made significant sales – have increased over the same period.
the care and welfare programmes of more advances in implementing the 3Rs through 200
than 500 contractor and supplier organisations. our Animal Welfare Awards. Animal use declined 3% in 2012 compared
The vast majority of these have either met our to 2011. The year-on-year decrease since 2006
core principles on animal welfare or responded We entered a number of partnerships during reflects changing research priorities, fewer 100
to our recommendations for improvements to 2012 to help reduce, refine and replace animal vaccines requiring testing on animals before
their animal care programmes. On occasion research, including: batch release, and a continued focus on 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012
we have decided not to work with a contractor • signing an agreement with Simulations Plus 3Rs initiatives. Animals used within GSK facilities
Animals used by contractors on behalf of GSK
either because they have chosen not to adopt to develop software that simulates the Most animals in our research – including – R&D investment plus vaccine sales
our recommendations or because it was clear, absorption of drugs through the skin in research carried out by contractors – are mice. Figures are normalised to 2000, the first year of data after the formation of
GlaxoSmithKline. Data includes animal research conducted by external contractors
following a site visit, that they were not humans and animals, and could potentially The number of fish as research models is on our behalf, data unavailable for 2000 and 2001.
committed to continuous improvement. reduce experimentation increasing. For example, in 2012 zebrafish
The 3Rs • participating in the launch of ‘Crack It’ based screens were evaluated for assessing Species used in GSK animal research 2012
Our goal is to use animals only when initiatives organised by the National Centre compound efficacy in both the infectious
scientifically necessary, use as few as for the Replacement, Refinement and diseases and neurological therapy areas. O Ott hh ee rr r odents 0% .5
scientifically feasible and minimise pain Reduction of Animals in Research. These will Other non-rodents account for 1.6% of the 5 4 Rabbit 0.5
and distress. Our scientists apply the connect scientists from different disciplines number of animals used. Less than 0.2% of 3 D No og n -human primates 00 .. 24
3Rs principles to all our biomedical research: to encourage innovation in the 3Rs the animals we use are non-human primates. Ferret 0.1
Farm* 0.1
• replacing animal research with other • supporting the Association for Assessment 2 Bird 0.1
methods where possible and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal
1
Care International to advance standards of %
• reducing the number of animals used 1 Mouse 64.4
animal welfare in China by organising two
2 Fish 16.0
while still providing information of a given
conferences and helping to translate a guide 3 Rat 12.7
amount and precision on the care and use of laboratory animals. 4 Guinea pig 5.0
5 Other 1.9
• refining techniques to minimise pain and
*(pigs, goats and sheep)
distress and maximise animal welfare.GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 45
Manufacturing and supply chain
An effective and responsibly Each year we spend around £9 billion Our supplier standards to improve their ethical, labour, health,
on goods and services with 6,000 suppliers safety and environmental practices. Current
managed supply and
in 73 countries. Our Third Party Code of Conduct defines what collaboration initiatives include the provision
distribution system is we expect from suppliers on ethical conduct, of common pre-audit questionnaires and joint
essential for us to get high- The ingredients and materials we buy from anti-bribery practices, labour practices, and shared audits, which helps to reduce
suppliers are fed into our network of more protection of human rights, environmental, duplication and makes compliance more
quality products to the right than 87 GSK manufacturing sites in health and safety management, and interactions straightforward for suppliers.
places at the right time for 34 countries. We manufacture nearly with GSK employees. New suppliers must accept
28,000 products and produce four billion and comply with the principles of the Code and Supply chain performance in 2012
patients. We rely on our packages annually, with more than meet our quality standards before they can do We conducted Environment, Health and
suppliers to deliver value at 26,000 people working for our Global business with us. Our procurement teams Safety (EHS) audits on 13 existing and
Manufacturing and Supply (GMS) division. engage with existing suppliers to raise awareness potential suppliers in 2012. Around 72 %
the best cost, while operating
We outsource just over 10% (in terms about the Code and reinforce its principles. of these audits assessed suppliers in Asia.
in a responsible manner. of production costs) of manufacturing
to suppliers who provide us with finished A risk-based approach determines the extent Supplier EHS audits 2007–2012
or part-finished product. In all these areas of engagement with a supplier. Higher-risk (existing and potential suppliers)
we need to ensure high quality, responsible suppliers are identified based on how critical 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008
manufacturing of the products we make. they are to the supply chain and what risk Americas 3 4 5 11 6
they pose to the patient and business if supply Europe 0 7 5 13 18
is interrupted or they fail to meet our standards. Asia 10 38 29 46 28
Risks to the supply chain are integrated into Africa 0 0 0 0 1
our overall risk management and compliance Total
number
oversight process. of audits 13 49 39 70 53
With our more significant suppliers we conduct
Regional distribution of total spend
with all suppliers 2012 audits that assess their environmental, health Number and types of supplier audited on EHS
in 2012 (existing and potential suppliers)
and safety governance and risk management.
6 1 Where significant gaps are identified we may Type of supplier Americas Europe Asia Total
5
4 recommend the use of consultants to support Primary (raw materials,
intermediates and
the supplier in making improvements, suspend pharmaceutical
ingredients) 1 0 7 8
or restrict supply until significant improvements
Contract
3 are made, stop working with a supplier, or Manufacturing
decide not to work with a potential new supplier. (Pharmaceutical
2 % formulations) 2 0 0 2
1 Europe 48 We are collaborating with other manufacturing Consumer healthcare
(excipients, actives,
2 US 18 companies in our sector through the
raw materials) 0 0 3 3
3 Asia Pacific 17 Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI),
4 Africa/Middle East 4
which aims to improve security of supply and
5 Latin America 8
6 Japan 5 reduce reputational risk by helping suppliersGSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 46
Manufacturing and supply chain continued
We conducted fewer EHS audits overall in 2012 During 2012 we began to map risks at Payment terms Supplier diversity
than 2011. This is as a result of a revised audit supplier manufacturing sites to help us better
strategy that prioritises those suppliers that are plan for any potential interruptions to supply. We changed our standard payment terms for Small companies and those owned by women
critical to our business. We have undertaken We engaged the property insurers FM Global suppliers in the UK and US in 2012. These or people who belong to minority groups
in-depth audits of these suppliers often involving to review risks to supply continuity for terms provide for payments to be made within are often under- represented in the supply
multiple site visits and including above-site 15 key suppliers. A further 20 suppliers will the first five days of the month that follows chains of large companies. GSK believes that
governance and risk management controls. be assessed in 2013. the expiry of 60 days from receipt of the small and diverse businesses have significant
We believe this approach is contributing to supplier’s invoice. potential to meet our procurement needs,
better relationships with suppliers and more Case study We greatly value the relationships we have and bring value to communities through job
significant and sustainable improvements. with our many suppliers and understand the creation and revenue generation.
The most EHS audit findings for suppliers 25 years of collaboration pressures on cash flow and financing being Sourcing from diverse suppliers has benefits
occurred mainly in emerging markets and faced by smaller companies at this time. This for us too. It helps us comply with regulations
included significant deficiencies in the design We have a 25-year connection with Divis is why in the UK, we are willing to review the in markets such as the USA, encourages
and operation of safe plant and equipment, Laboratories in India, which we celebrated new payment terms for those suppliers that innovation, and exposes us to
poor management of flammable liquids, in 2012. identify themselves as being Micro, Small and new perspectives and fresh ideas. Our supplier
and inadequate fire prevention and control Medium Size Enterprises or SMEs, as defined diversity programme is led from the USA,
Since we signed our first contract with
measures. Additional gaps were identified by the European Commission. In the US, we with support from our procurement teams
Divis to supply ingredients for Zantac,
in areas of compliance with regulations, are willing to review the new payment terms worldwide. In the USA, our spend with small
a drug used to treat and prevent ulcers
management of change, emergency response for the suppliers falling within the category of diverse suppliers increased by 2.7% in 2012.
in the stomach and intestines, our quality,
preparedness, safe systems of work, loss EHS and technical teams have worked Diversity Suppliers, as defined by the relevant In 2012 we were one of the key sponsors of
prevention/continuity planning, and control closely with Divis managers to develop their legislation. In addition we offer a range of and participants in the MSDUK conference
of exposure to chemical agents. understanding of our requirements and to supply chain finance options to both our on supplier diversity in London, where
UK and US suppliers.
In total, four suppliers had critical findings support them as they have improved their procurement teams from 35 large companies
from their audits. As a result, one supplier has quality, environment and safety systems. For most suppliers, the changes we have made were brought together with 200 ethnic
stopped a specific process that was causing Divis has a strong focus on putting profits to our payment terms should have little minority businesses to listen to presentations
concern, and the risk has been removed. back into the community through activities impact if they submit their invoices towards and to network.
Two others are not currently in commercial in villages near its manufacturing facilities – the end of the month and we still pay most
agreements with us, while the other is one including the building of a library, paying of our suppliers faster than our customers
of several suppliers in China with which we are for teachers at local schools, and pay us. The changes we have made will make
working to bring in more robust procedures. horticultural training for local farmers. payment terms with suppliers consistent across
the Group and reduce complexity. They will
In addition to the more strategic audits, Over the past 25 years Divis has grown also provide more certainty to suppliers as to
in strength and 90% of the company’s
a further 20 audits of contract manufacturers when they will be paid, something that our
business is now focused on the UK
of final products were conducted by EHS suppliers have unanimously fed back to us as
and USA.
staff within the business, particularly in India, being important.
to ensure suitable standards.GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 47
Manufacturing and supply chain continued
Anti-counterfeiting Use of technology must be combined with GSK anti-counterfeiting activity
other strategies, such as working with customs There has been a decrease in the number
Counterfeiting poses a serious threat to authorities to seize counterfeit products. We of reported counterfeit incidents in 2012 Read more online
patient and consumer health, as well as provide customs officials with information and this can be attributed to a combination
a business threat to GSK and other on our products, and train them to identify of effective preventative measures, such as We publish more detail online on key
pharmaceutical companies. counterfeits. During 2012 we helped train the serialisation programme in China and issues including:
We work with regulatory and enforcement customs officials in China, Malaysia and also a robust investigative and enforcement • GSK Anti-Bribery and Corruption Handbook
agencies to address this global problem and Vietnam, and took part in regional training strategy that has led to the significant • GSK Anti-Bribery and Corruption Guidelines
are determined to provide ways for patients sessions organised by the World Customs increase in raid actions during 2012. for Third Parties
to check the authenticity of our products. Organisation (WCO) in West and East Africa. • Cloning technologies and stem cell research
• Disclosure of clinical trial information
For example, following a pilot in Nigeria, The WCO has launched an initiative called GSK anti-counterfeiting activity
• The care, welfare and treatment of animals
in 2012 we introduced anti-counterfeiting Interface Public Members to encourage the 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
• The role of transgenic animals in
measures on our products in Kenya and exchange of information on counterfeit Number biomedical research
Tanzania. A code included on the back of products between the pharmaceutical industry o caf sr ee sported 358 378 367 259 289 429 248 • Use of Non-human Primates (NHPs) in the
packs can be sent via text message to a toll-free and customs bodies. GSK – one of the first Number Discovery and Development of Medicines
number. The mobile service looks up the code companies to sign up – has helped to pilot of raids 208 148 96 94 94 71 57 and Vaccines
and sends a verification text back to the the system. Number • Counterfeiting of healthcare products
of arrests 124 181 132 129 84 127 94
consumer if the product is genuine. In 2012 • Pharmacovigilance
this initiative received the George DiDomizio During 2012 there were significant seizures
Industry Award in the USA in recognition of as a result of such cooperation. In China,
the company’s efforts, with its business partner one operation led to raids at nine underground
in the project, to prevent the spread of facilities in Guangzhou, with seizures
counterfeit medicine. including more than 3.7m counterfeit GSK
antibiotic tablets intended for West Africa.
In China during 2012 we introduced the In a separate case in China, the operators
capability to put serial numbers on the packs of a counterfeiting factory in Guangdong
of 31 pharmaceutical products – allowing Province were sentenced to lengthy jail terms
electronic monitoring for patient safety for faking 56 different medicines valued at
purposes through the Chinese government’s more than £1.3m, including 700,000 doses of
system. As a result, serial numbers were Panadol caplets intended for the Middle East.
introduced on packs of Heptodin, a medicine
that combats Hepatitis ‘B’. Lessons learned
about this technology in China will help us
implement similar initiatives elsewhere in
the world.GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 48
Public policy and patient advocacy
Through our public policy Our goal is to demonstrate that all our applications, new incentives for antibiotic at a moment where significant regulatory
interactions with political stakeholders research, and increased staff levels and reforms are being implemented and/or
and advocacy work, we can
and patient advocacy groups are conducted training for rare diseases therapies. planned in both the EU and China.
make a valuable contribution appropriately, ethically and transparently.
• advocated for re-authorisation of the • called on G20 governments to develop
to debate on issues that impact To provide further clarity on our approach
Pandemic All-Hazards Preparedness Act, incentives that reward products with lower
in 2012 we developed a set of criteria to guide
public health and our business which will improve preparation for public environmental impacts through supportive
how we choose which public policy groups
health emergencies in the USA. public procurement policies.
and influence regulation. we work with.
• advocated in support of the Safe Doses Act Trade association membership
In doing so, we aim to take Advocacy work in support of our commitment
that strengthens the USA law enforcement
a responsible approach, to be to access and innovation is explained in the system to fight medical theft and protect We are a member of many trade and industry
Health for all section. associations. Membership in these groups can
guided by our values and to patients from risks associated with re-sold,
support the efficiency and effectiveness of our
Key public policy engagements during 2012 stolen and improperly stored medical
protect the interests of patients. public policy work. This link provides a list of
included the following: products – including medicines re-entering
memberships in trade associations that
the supply chain.
• in the USA, much of our focus in 2012 was primarily represent pharmaceutical, consumer
on the transformation of the USA healthcare • worked with trade associations to ensure that product, and vaccine businesses at the national,
system. We also submitted comments to proposed changes to the European regional, and international levels. This list will
the federal agencies implementing the Commission’s data protection regulation be updated regularly.
Affordable Care Act, which was signed into guarantee appropriate levels of privacy for
Political contributions
law in 2010. Through the comment process, patients and study participants, but do not
we successfully advocated for changes to impede meaningful biomedical research.
We do not make corporate political
ensure appropriate access for patients.
• urged all European Union heads of state contributions.
Implementation of the law will continue
to find a sustainable approach to the control Employee Political Action Committee
through the next decade, with significant
of pharmaceutical costs that minimises
provisions coming into effect in 2014.
the effects of austerity measures on the In the USA some employees choose to make
We have engaged with federal and state
availability of medicines. personal political contributions through the
governments, policymakers, healthcare
GSK employee Political Action Committee
professionals and payers to ensure the law • advocated for the establishment of a Federal
(PAC), which facilitates voluntary political
prioritises quality, encourages a value-based Drug Regulatory Authority in Pakistan,
contributions by eligible employees, in
healthcare system, maintains incentives for which has allowed the drug regulatory
accordance with the Federal Election
pharmaceutical innovation, and supports process to start functioning again after
Campaign Act. In 2012 the GSK employees’
access to medicines and vaccines. nearly a year of inactivity.
PAC contributed $ 565,630 – 59% to Republicans,
• advocated for passage of the Food and Drug • worked with European and Chinese industry and 41% to Democrat candidates running for
Administration Safety and Innovation Act and authorities to strengthen EU-China state and federal offices.
(FDASIA) in the USA, which allows for regulatory cooperation and alignment,
improved processes for the review of drugGSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 49
Public policy and patient advocacy continued
Lobbying expenditure Patient advocacy on working with patient groups. These state,
Case study
among other things, that each country must
In 2012 costs associated with lobbying of EU Patient groups – non-profit organisations nominate a senior member of staff responsible
institutions were in the range of € 900,000 founded by patients, care-givers, family for leading and co-ordinating patient advocacy European Patients’
to € 1m, as outlined in our European members and health professionals – are activity, and that the general manager of each Academy on Therapeutic
Transparency Register. This figure includes important stakeholders for us. They engage country must meet at least two patient groups
Innovation
running the Brussels advocacy office, salaries, with healthcare providers, governments, each year.
external events, travel and accommodation, the media, and patients to promote improved
consulting costs and educational materials – treatment and services for patients. They also We publish information on all our work with In 2012 we were involved in the creation
and takes into account the proportion of campaign on issues that affect patients’ and patient groups online in our Europe, Asia of the European Patients’ Academy
employee time spent on representing GSK’s care-givers’ lives. Some carry out research into Pacific, and Emerging Markets regions, as well on Therapeutic Innovation (EUPATI).
interests to EU institutions. It excludes trade the causes of and potential treatments for as information on our support for patient This patient-led consortium of 29
association membership fees. specific conditions. groups working globally, including details of organisations will increase the capacity
the funding received. of patients to be effective advocates and
In the USA, we spent $ 4,920,000 on federal Our relationships with patient groups help advisers in clinical trials, with regulatory
lobbying activities in 2012 down from 2011 us better understand patient needs and their We also voluntarily disclose our funding authorities, and in ethics committees.
(see the USA federal lobbying register). This illnesses, which guides our R&D. In turn, our support on our US website and detailed
Between 2012 and 2017 EUPATI will provide,
includes the costs of salaries and benefits for support helps patient opinions to be heard. information for GSK Australia and Canada can
in seven languages and in 12 European
all employees registered to lobby the US be found on their websites.
We provide funding to patient groups to help countries, educational materials about
Government; use of lobbying consultants; with day-to-day running costs and defined Patient Advocacy Leaders Summits research and development processes in
support for lobbying contacts such as planning events or activities. Our support also includes For ten years our Patient Advocacy Leaders medicines. It will also create a public library
activities and research; running the GSK educational assistance, training for staff, and Summits (PALS) have been bringing patient on medical R&D. We are a member of the
Washington DC government affairs office; EUPATI consortium and we are contributing
collaboration on disease awareness and advocates together to discuss health policy and
support staff; and the portion of trade expertise, staff time and funding.
prevention projects. to develop new skills and ways to expand their
association fees associated with federal lobbying.
influence. In the USA in 2012, there was a
All GSK employees and relevant third parties
national PALS in Washington DC, as well as
who work with patient groups must follow our
eight regional PALS throughout the country,
guidelines and Standard Operating Procedures
all focusing on the patient advocate’s role in
(SOPs). For example, we limit the amount of
implementing healthcare reform. Elsewhere
funding we can provide to 25% of a patient
during 2012 we held PALS in Bulgaria, Finland,
group’s overall funding, and state that
the Netherlands, Germany, Portugal, Slovakia
relationships with patient groups must never
and a Middle East and Africa regional PALS
be linked to promotion of our products. We
in Qatar. Since 2002, in excess of 6,000 people
also provide training so that employees
representing around 2,000 organizations from
understand our requirements.
more than 50 countries have participated in
All our European operating companies are over 80 PALS.
required to apply our new minimum standardsGSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 50
Our approach to tax
Businesses are increasingly We understand our responsibility to pay an During 2012 we took the decision to centralise Transfer pricing2: in line with OECD
appropriate amount of tax. At the same time our Pharmaceutical intellectual property and guidelines we base our transfer pricing policy
being challenged to ensure
we have a responsibility to our shareholders product inventory ownership into the UK. on the arm’s length principle and support
they contribute through the to be financially efficient and deliver a This move helps us to decrease administrative our transfer prices with economic analysis
tax system to the societies sustainable tax rate. We also support efforts complexity involved with multiple owners and reports. The worldwide nature of our
to ensure companies are appropriately of intellectual property within our business operations means that our R&D and
in which they operate, and
transparent about how their tax affairs and also deliver supply chain and working manufacturing operations are centred in
to provide information on are managed. capital efficiencies. a number of key locations. A consequence
of this is that our cross-border supply routes,
their tax management Our contribution: we have a substantial The changes were also made possible by the
necessary to ensure supplies of medicines
principles and policies. business and employment presence in many introduction of new ‘patent box’ tax rules by
into numerous end-markets, can be complex.
countries around the globe and we pay a the UK Government. These rules make the
significant amount of tax, including corporation UK a more attractive place to locate IP and Tax Havens: we do not engage in artificial
and other business taxes, as well as tax associated investment. Our decision to centralise IP and tax arrangements – those without business or
with our employees. For example, in total, over fund more R&D from the UK means that over commercial substance – and our policy is to
the last ten years we have paid approximately the medium term we expect to pay more use locations only where we have substantial
£19.5 billion in corporation tax globally. corporation tax in the UK, as more of the business presence. We have a substantial local
value we generate from sales of our pipeline business presence in the vast majority of the
In 2012, our global corporation tax charge on
products will have been created in the UK territories where we operate whether through
core profits was approximately £1.8 billion and
and be subject to UK tax. business offices, sales force, manufacturing,
we had a Group tax rate on these profits of
R&D facilities or local distribution of our
24.4%. This means that the corporate tax Relationship with tax authorities: GSK seeks
products, all of which contribute to economic
due on our core profits around the world to maintain open, positive relationships with
development and create shared value for the
amounted to nearly one quarter of the total governments and tax authorities worldwide
region and our business.
core profit we made during the year. Further and we welcome constructive debate on
details about our corporate tax charges for taxation policy. During 2012 we held bilateral Internal processes: we have robust internal
the year are set out in our Annual Report. discussions with HM Revenue & Customs policies, processes, training and compliance
(HMRC) in the UK and the Internal Revenue programmes to ensure we have alignment
We pay a considerable amount of tax in the UK
Service (IRS) in the US on the commercial across our business and meet our tax
given that only 5% of Group sales are generated
terms for the centralisation of our obligations. Our Audit and Risk Committee
in the country. This is because a significant
1 This is an ahead of time agreement between a tax payer and proportion of our global corporate functions pharmaceutical intellectual property (IP) in and the Board are responsible for approving
a tax authority on an appropriate transfer pricing methodology the UK referred to above. As a result we have our tax strategy and management.
for certain transactions over a fixed period of time. and R&D and manufacturing activities are
agreed to enter into a bilateral Advance Pricing
2 An underlying principle of transfer pricing is that even though two located in the UK. In addition to corporation
Agreement with the IRS and HMRC1. This will
companies are within the same group, they have to act as if they tax on the profits generated, the employment
were independent enterprises. This means that companies must provide long term certainty for both
be appropriately rewarded for the assets they employ and the and value that these activities create are subject
risks they assume when entering into intra-group transactions, authorities and for GSK over the tax treatment
to ensure profits generated are taxed in the countries where the to a number of other UK taxes including
and costs related to this move.
value arises. An appropriate reward is considered to be the reward indirect tax and employment taxes.
which would be obtained from a third party. This is known as the
‘arm’s length principle’.GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 51
Our people
Our people
In this section
Overview 53
Talent and development 54
In focus
Inclusion and diversity 55
Engaging employees 57
Our PULSE programme gives employees like
Health, safety and well-being 58
Megha a chance to contribute their expertise and Reward and recognition 60
widen their horizons by working with a non-profit
organisation – in her case with Save the Children.
Read more on page 52GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 52
Our people
In focus Our PULSE programme gives employees
We need our people to develop their
the chance to contribute their expertise,
Giving our
develop their leadership skills and widen
skills, appreciate different perspectives their horizons by working with a non-
people a
profit organisation.
and be highly motivated, engaged
chance to Nearly 300 employees have taken up
this opportunity to work full time with
and resilient. give back a non-profit organisation or charity for
three or six months, funded by GSK.
In 2012, Megha from our marketing
We will gain the most from our people – and attract the best – team in India, undertook a three-month
assignment with Save the Children.
by helping them thrive as individuals. We aim to ensure they are
Working with the charity’s digital media
valued, supported and empowered to be successful both personally
team, she used her expertise to help
and professionally. We want them to feel proud of the work they Save the Children communicate about
do, the company they work for, and the difference they make. its work and raise awareness about the
issues it is addressing.
GSK strives to be inclusive, accessible and attractive as an employer
This PULSE assignment gave Megha
PULSE gave me an
to people from all backgrounds. As our global footprint changes we an opportunity to apply her skills and
opportunity to make
will work to ensure this continues to be reflected in our workforce. contribute to a cause she felt strongly
an impact in my about. Megha used her marketing
We have clear values that govern how we do business responsibly, own little way. experience to help share stories of children
and we have made a strong public commitment to these values. whose lives had been transformed because
Megha, of the work done by Save the Children.
We ask every one of our employees to live and embody these values.
GSK Marketing team, India
We reinforce these through training, communication and how On returning to GSK, Megha was able
to bring back the passion she experienced
we recognise and reward performance.
and apply it to her work through focusing
We help employees remain healthy and resilient through better on the patient. Save the Children has also
seen an increase in donations as a result
management of health and safety and programmes designed
of raising the charity’s profile online and
to improve the working environment. engaging with the public through
social media.GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 53
Overview
2012 at a glance
Talent and development The people we employ in our Emerging Our commitments
Markets, Asia Pacific and Japan regions
Recruited 317 graduates globally, making represent 42% of our total workforce, • C ontinue to promote inclusion and diversity • E xtend volunteering opportunities
progress towards our target of recruiting up from 40% in 2011. globally at GSK. to bring about positive change to
450 graduates a year by 2015. communities and global health while
See page 55 42% • Continue to create a working environment providing individual development.
See page 54 317 that inspires people to grow and perform
in a healthy and resilient way.
Launched Project Search in the UK to help
Empowered 91 employees from 22 countries a group of young people with learning
to volunteer with 51 non-profit organisations disabilities make the transition from education
in 26 countries through PULSE assignments. to the world of work at GSK.
External perspective
See page 54 See page 56
Employee engagement
GSK pioneered the first Business Disability The future challenges will be ensuring
In our global employee survey, 85% said they
were proud to work for GSK (based on 72% Forum with us – with the vision of GSK can take this worldwide – engaging
participation). This equals the level from the making it easier to employ and do business disabled applicants, employees and
last survey. with disabled people. The company remains stakeholders, and meet the needs of
committed to focusing on disability at a disabled and older patients as new products
See page 57
global level both within the organisation are developed and packaged.
and in the wider business community in
2013 and beyond.
GSK have acted as trailblazers by
Inclusion and diversity Health, safety and well-being piloting Project Search in the UK in 2012 –
transforming the employability of 12
Increased the proportion of Reduced our injury and young people with learning disabilities –
women in management illness rate by 10%. 10% and providing PULSE volunteers who bring
to 40%, up from 39% in 2011. See page 59 skills, knowledge, energy and expertise.
See page 55
Provided resilience training for 6,400
Susan Scott-Parker OBE,
employees, including advice on reducing Founding Chief Executive, Business Disability Forum
stress and improving energy levels.
http://businessdisabilityforum.org.uk
See page 58GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 54
Talent and development
We are committed to Leaders and managers Early careers Development through
community involvement
being an employer of
We want to build the capability of leaders Our early career development programmes
choice, recruiting and and managers to develop their teams, create include internships, industrial placements, Our two community involvement
a values-based culture and demonstrate apprenticeships, graduate schemes and our programmes – PULSE and Orange Day –
retaining the most
strong leadership. global MBA programme (ESPRIT). enable employees to develop their skills,
talented people around broaden their perspectives and make a
Engaging employees on our values accounts In 2012, we recruited 317 graduates (up from
the world and developing valuable contribution outside GSK. PULSE
for a significant proportion of senior leaders’ 133 in 2011), making progress towards our
provides three or six month assignments
their skills. We invest annual performance assessment. Line global target of recruiting 450 graduates a
for employees to work full-time with a
managers are assessed on how they deliver year by 2015. New graduate programmes were
in employees at every non-governmental organisation or charity,
work as well as what they deliver. More than launched in our communications, human
while our Orange Day programme gives
level, from early careers 2,200 leaders a year undertake 360-degree resources and consumer healthcare units.
employees one paid day each year to volunteer
assessments, which give their direct line We significantly increased the number of
to senior management.
for their chosen local community project.
managers the opportunity to provide detailed participants from emerging markets from
feedback on their leadership behaviour. 27 in 2010 to 120 in 2012. In addition, we Since the launch of PULSE in 2009, nearly
launched new ESPRIT MBA programmes in 300 people have taken part. Recent focus
Our Enterprise Leadership and Leading
finance, consumer healthcare, commercial, areas include malaria, access to healthcare,
Business programmes aim to help managers
medical, and research and development. children’s health and science education. Six
widen their perspective and gain a better
months after completing PULSE, nearly 80%
understanding of our diverse global business In 2012, 52 apprentices joined GSK, bringing
of volunteers said they were more energised
and healthcare challenges. In 2012, for the number of apprentices in the UK to
by their work at GSK. In 2012, we further
example, 100 senior managers travelled to 85 across nine GSK sites. We continue our
assessed the value of PULSE to participants
Kenya and India to visit businesses, hospitals commitment to reimburse 100% of uncapped
and NGO partner organisations. Our survey
and clinics, to learn more about societal, tuition fees for students recruited under the
found a 33% increase in retention rates among
business, and medical challenges that GSK company’s UK graduate scheme from 2015.
volunteers (compared with the GSK employee
can help to solve.
population in the same country) and around
We provide opportunities for high-potential 80% of their colleagues felt volunteers
employees to work closely with members of returning from placements brought back a
the Corporate Executive Team through our reinvigorated energy, spirit, motivation and
Future Strategy Group (FSG), which examines morale to their teams. In addition, 90% of
challenging business issues that affect GSK. PULSE NGO partners said their volunteer met
To date 60 employees have taken part and in or exceeded their expectations.
2012, 25 employees completed FSG projects.GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 55
Inclusion and diversity
Being an inclusive In 2012, we introduced Inclusive Behaviours Emerging markets
Employee perspective
training in the USA. This programme focuses
employer enables us to
on uncovering participants unconscious biases, We aim to increase the proportion of people
better understand and to ensure behaviours are consistent with GSK from emerging markets in management
respond to the needs of values, and explains why inclusion and positions to bring a broader spectrum of After originally working at GSK as an
diversity is increasingly critical to the backgrounds and experiences. The people we HR Manager, I left and rejoined in 2008 to
patients and healthcare success of GSK. employ in our Emerging Markets, Asia Pacific take up the role of HR Director supporting
workers in all our markets Women and Japan regions represent 42% of our total GSK Pakistan, Iran and Afghanistan. This
workforce. Around 10% of senior managers
and helps us attract, gave me the chance to experience leading a
who report to our Corporate Executive Team
The percentage of women in higher-level function for the first time. Two years later,
retain and motivate a are from these regions and eight different
management positions continued to grow I was offered the opportunity to work on an
nationalities are now represented within the
workforce that reflects in 2012, reflecting our ambition to support Employer Brand project as part of the CEO’s
Corporate Executive Team and Board.
gender equity at the most senior levels. Future Strategy Group, based at GSK
the many communities
One region that has shown marked progress Our leadership development programmes headquarters in London. Then, onto
in which we operate and is asia pacific, where 45% of those at general are carefully managed to ensure that Singapore to lead an Asia Pacific talent
with whom we work. manager level are women. talented people from all parts of world have development project before being appointed
the opportunity to participate. In 2012, as VP HR Middle East and Africa in 2012,
Five of our non-executive directors are women
employees from 27 different nationalities where I have been tasked to set up the area
(representing 31% on the Board), exceeding
participated in the Leading Business hub in Istanbul.
our goal to have more than 25% female
programme (designed to develop our future
Board representation by 2013. Three members In summary, my career at GSK has been
general managers) and 30% were from
of our Corporate Executive Team are women very fulfilling; every day I am stretched.
emerging markets. Our First Line leadership
(representing 23% of the team). I interact with colleagues across the world,
initiative was delivered in 12 languages in
which helps me to nurture and grow.
24 countries, and our global MBA programme
GSK is a great place to work, where
Women in management positions (%)
(ESPRIT) includes participants from
employees are empowered and our values
2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 23 different countries.
are reflected in our ways of working.
SVP, VP 27 26 25 25 25
Director 39 38 37 36 36
Manager 43 42 42 42 41
Total 40 39 38 38 38
Fariha, Vice President, HR Middle East and AfricaGSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 56
Inclusion and diversity continued
Ethnic minorities Disability
Case study
Ethnic minorities accounted for 20% of UK We want people with disabilities to be able
employees in 2012. We measure diversity in to access our full range of recruitment and Project Search
the UK by the number of employees who career opportunities. We have a long-standing
define themselves as non-white. In 2012 commitment to a number of disability In 2012, GSK became the first private
12.8% of employees were non-white, compared organisations such as the Business Disability sector organisation in the UK to take
with 12.3% in 2011. Forum in the UK and SERMES in Spain. part in the global Project Search initiative,
which helps young people with learning
The proportion of ethnic minority employees In 2012, GSK launched Project Search (see case
disabilities make the transition from
in the USA increased to 22.1% in 2012. In the study to right) in the UK. We have made a
education to the world of work.
USA, ethnic minorities are defined as Black commitment to focus on disability at a global
or African American people, Hispanic or level in 2013 and beyond. (See quote from the The first intake of 12 students, aged 17
Latino people, Asian people, Pacific Islanders, Business Disability Forum’s Founding Chief to 24, joined employees at our corporate
American Indian people and Alaskan natives. Executive Susan Scott-Parker, page 53.) headquarters in September 2012 for a year
We continue to monitor and benchmark of work experience in areas such as the
In the USA GSK has become a member of
ourselves against industry standards defined restaurant, security, post room and IT, while
by the North American Industry Classification GettingHired.com, a national talent search they continue their last year of studies.
organisation for people with disabilities that
System for Pharmaceutical and Medicine The project helps us think differently
will enhance our opportunities to hire
Manufacturing. For example, we have been about the potential of young people
talented people with disabilities at all levels
engaging with external groups representing with learning disabilities and – by providing
of the organisation.
minorities through events like the National work experience alongside full-time
Black MBA and the National Society of study – dramatically increases the chances
Hispanic MBAs conferences, the Southeast of participants finding employment.
Asian Association conference, the Council Experience of project participants with
for the Advancement of Muslim Professionals other organisations suggest this raises
conference and the Out & Equal Summit. employment rates from 6% to over 60%.
Ethnic minorities – UK and USA employees (%)
2012 2011 2010 2009 2008
UK 20.0 19.6 19.4 19.4 19.2
USA 22.1 21.9 20.5 20.4 20.5
1 2
Number of Project Search
students at GSKGSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 57
Engaging employees
We strive to engage We keep employees informed through capability in this area by utilising GSK’s
Case study
broadcasts from our CEO and Corporate ‘change framework’ to enable managers to
employees on our
Executive Team, and articles on our intranet. better support their employees through change.
values and the progress We also equip senior leaders with information Getting involved
Managing change
we are making as they need to brief their teams on important in the Games
company news and to provide local context. In early 2013 we announced the expansion
a company, while
Employee survey of a major change programme, the first A survey among employees showed that
listening to their views. phase of which was announced in the second their sense of pride working for GSK
In 2012, 68,000 employees shared their views quarter of 2012. This programme is focused increased following the London 2012
about GSK’s progress through our employee on advancing technology, reducing costs, Olympic and Paralympic Games. GSK was
survey. There was a 72% participation rate, improving efficiencies and reallocating resources. the Official Laboratory Services Provider to
up from 68% in 2009, when we last the Games, using our scientific expertise
We are very conscious of the effect
conducted the survey. Survey results were and facilities to support the integrity of the
restructuring has on employees. We aim to
communicated to employees and will be Games and the health of the
achieve organisational and financial goals
used by each business unit and function competing athletes.
without eliminating positions and to redeploy
to address areas for improvement. We ran a global competition asking
employees where possible. We remain
employees to nominate colleagues who
The most favourable percentages were in two committed to consulting on changes via a
had demonstrated the Olympic values
areas: GSK values, with 93% of employees number of consultation forums, as well as
of friendship, integrity, equality and
saying they understand what constitutes discussions with the European Works Council
excellence. We received more than
ethical business practices and conduct in and similar bodies in countries where this is
2,000 nominations from 83 markets and
their job and 87% saying they are very clear national practice. If jobs are lost through
100 winners received tickets for the Games.
about what they are accountable for in their business change, we offer compensation and
role. The survey also found that 80% of other support such as outplacement in line Over 2,500 participants got involved in
employees felt GSK was taking appropriate with local requirements and employment Gold Challenge fitness events, raising over
actions to be socially responsible (compared legislation. We also offer employees support £100,000 for charity. Events included the
with a global norm of 75%). through resilience training and an Employee 2012km Challenge, in which employees
Assistance Programme had to cover 2012km, 201.2km or 20.12km
GSK has undertaken significant business via a range of sports. GSK teams from
changes over recent years, including new 43 countries travelled a combined distance
acquisitions and joint ventures, outsourcing, of 536,774km.
site closures and staff reductions in some
markets. Favourable percentages in the area
of change management were lower in the
survey, although slightly better than the
global norm for major organisations.
We continue to strive to make improvements,
especially focusing on developing leadershipGSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 58
Health, safety and well-being
We aim to create a working To communicate more effectively with Healthy, high-performing,
Employee perspective
employees on health and safety, we simplified resilient workforce
environment that inspires
our online health and safety information
and supports people to in 2012 and made it more consistent across Our Energy for Performance and Personal
grow and perform in a safe, the business. We are streamlining health Resilience (E4P) training programmes provide Partnership for Prevention is more
and safety policies and standards to reduce employees with support to reduce stress at than a great initiative. I think it’s going
healthy and resilient way. bureaucracy and make it easier for each part work and at home, and to improve energy to be a mind shift in this part of the
of the business to focus on key priorities. levels and productivity. In 2012 an additional world. We have been so used to treatment.
6,400 employees* took part in one or more Prevention is a great idea. My wife wants
Health promotion resilience programmes. In 2012, a study to know more and I have become an
and disease prevention of E4P graduates in the US sales force showed advocate for the programme.
an increase in productivity, with eight more
In 2012 GSK became the first multinational
calls per month achieved in comparison with GSK employee,
employer to commit to provide comprehensive Consumer Healthcare, Nigeria
a control group.
preventative healthcare services to all
employees and their dependants worldwide Our programmes to manage attendance
over the next five years. This commitment is ensure that employees receive proper medical
Read more online
part of our mission to help people do more, care and support to help them return to work
feel better and live longer. safely and quickly. In the USA, our attendance
We publish more detail online on key
Called Partnership for Prevention, the new management programme saved approximately issues including:
£3.24 million by reducing time away
programme provides access to affordable • Hazardous chemical management
from work due to disability and by returning
healthcare and prevention services for • GSK and REACH
employees to work sooner than the industry
employees even in countries where healthcare
average, as measured by Employer Measures
provision is expensive or inadequate. The
of Productivity, Absence and Quality.
programme will expand access to 40 services –
including immunisation, cancer screening,
smoking cessation programmes and HIV
screening and treatment – that are not covered
by health insurance. Most services will be
6,400
provided through community healthcare
networks or at GSK sites.
In 2012, the programme was piloted among
employees 5,000 GSK employees and their families in * assured by
Ecuador, Ghana, Nigeria and Romania. Results
In 2012 an additional 6,400 will allow us to develop a global approach.
employees* took part in one or more
resilience programmes.GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 59
Health, safety and well-being continued
Zero harm To help embed a safety culture, we are Data Summary injury and illness data*
focusing on reporting of ‘near miss’ incidents.
Our goal is zero harm to any employee. This enables us to learn from mistakes and Our injury and illness rate decreased by 2012 2011 2010
Hours worked (millions) 205.5 204.8 207.9
To achieve this, our first goal is to eliminate prevent accidents. We routinely perform audits 10% compared to 2011. Slips, trips and falls
Fatalities 2 2 1
serious incidents. Risks to employees vary to ensure we are reducing and managing risks are our leading cause of injuries and illnesses
Number of injuries and illnesses
according to roles but can include chemical effectively. We reviewed health and safety accounting for nearly 25% of all incidents.* with lost time 409 428 508
exposure, driving accidents and repetitive in our commercial businesses, and as a result Calendar days lost 8,784 9,918 10,824
strain injuries. we will be extending our network of Leading causes of GSK reportable injuries Number of injuries and illnesses
and illnesses* without lost time 260 303 353
In 2012, there were four serious incidents environmental, health and safety coordinators Lost-time injury and illness rate
at GSK globally. Two of our commercial sales globally in 2013. 1 (per 100,000 hrs worked) 0.20 0.21 0.24
employees died in motor vehicle accidents We continue to embed risk reduction 6 C (pa ele r n 1d 0a 0r , 0d 0a 0ys h l ro ss t w r oa rt ke e d) 4.27 4.84 5.21
during routine calls to physicians. One programmes such as our Zero Access to 5 Reportable injury and illness rate
incident occurred in India and the other Machinery and Respirator Free initiatives. 2 (per 100,000 hrs worked) 0.33 0.36 0.41
in Argentina. As a result, our driver safety These aim to minimise the risk of injury
Notes:
programme is being expanded. At two of and serious accidents and reduce exposure 4 (1) Data covers employees and contract workers who are directly
our manufacturing sites, machinery–related to harmful airborne powders. Deployment 3 % s ilu lnp ee sr sv pis ee rd f ob ry m G aS nK ce e fm orp tlo hy ee ye es a. rW . Ce a r se ep so mrt a a y s bn ea ap dsh do et d o af f tin ej ru tr hy e a en nd d
incidents resulted in finger amputations. of our Process Safety Management System 1 Slips/trips/falls 23.0 of the year, so data for prior years may change.
One incident occured in China, the other to prevent catastrophic events such as 2 3 E Mrg ao chn io nm eryic 2 11 6. .4 7 (2) L ilo lns et- st sim ese t hin aju t r aie res sa en rd io i ulln s e es ns oe us ga hre t ow ro er sk u-r lte il nat oed n ein oju r r mie os ra en dd a ys
in Belgium. Following a root–cause analysis fires, explosions, and releases of hazardous 4 Motor vehicle 15.5 (3) La ow sa t y c afr leo nm d aw r o dr ak y. s are the days – including weekends – that
and investigation by a machinery safety substances remains on target. 5 Contact with sharp objects 6.1 employees could not work because of work-related injuries and
specialist at our Tianjin site in China, 6 Other 17.2 illnesses. This indicates the severity of injuries and illnesses.
(4) R eportable injuries and illnesses without lost time are incidents that
corrective action plans were developed did not result in time away from work.
and teleconferences held to review lessons Reportable injury and ilness rate*
learned. At our Vaccines facility in Belgium, (per 100,000 hours worked) Our environment, health and safety data
we have reinforced equipment safety in this report is assured by Bureau Veritas.
0.41
training and implemented a comprehensive Read their assurance statement and our
preventative maintenance plan. 0.36 response on page 71.
0.33
0.28
* assured by
2010 2011 2012 2015 targetGSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 60
Reward and recognition
We are open about our Executive pay Pensions
Case study
remuneration practices
Management and executive level In 2012, we proposed a pension benefit change
and ensure that reward remuneration is aligned with business in the UK to cap basic salary increases at 2% pa Thinking locally
performance measures and designed for employees in our UK defined-benefit plans
is based on performance
to reward long-term performance and on terms that any further increase that would We ‘think locally’ when it comes to pay
and reinforces our values. sustainable shareholder value. otherwise have been provided would take the and benefits, creating packages that
form of a non-pensionable salary supplement. will be attractive and competitive in
Our Board level Remuneration Committee
We engaged in consultation on a local and each location. In Vietnam, for example,
sets remuneration policy and levels for our
national basis including with the we provide loans to employees to cover
Corporate Executive Team. It has responsibility
manufacturing trade unions. As an output the purchase of a new motorcycle,
for ensuring rewards are appropriate and
of the consultation, we were able to make registration tax and insurance for three
competitive with industry and wider market
some amendments to the original proposal. years. This gives employees a reliable
norms. Our Annual Report details the total
The proposed change will take effect from form of transport and provides us with
remuneration earned and available to our
2013. In considering cost management and an advantage when attracting and
Executive Directors.
changes to benefits such as this, we seek to retaining talent.
Putting values at the continue to strike the right balance between
heart of rewards company and employee interests.
Fairness and equity
We continue to further align employee
rewards and benefits to reflect our values
We aim to provide consistent and fair reward
in different ways as appropriate.
across global locations, and to tailor benefits
Our Developing Countries and Market to suit local circumstances (see case study).
Access Unit (DCMA) was set up to increase Among our 14,000 most senior employees, the
patient access to GSK medicines and vaccines structure of bonuses and long-term incentives
while building a sustainable business in are consistent regardless of location.
Least-Developed Countries. Objectives and
rewards for managers in this unit are based
primarily on volumes rather than profit to
help ensure our medicines reach those that
need them most.
See also Behaviour (Sales and marketing)GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 61
Our planet
In focus
We are reducing our carbon footprint through
greener methods of making antibiotics.
Read more on page 62
In this section
Overview 63
Carbon 64
Water and waste 66
Managing other impacts 68
Engagement 69
Data summary 70
Summary of assurance statement 71GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 62
Our planet
In focus Amoxicillin is one of the most widely
We are growing our business to bring
prescribed antibiotics in the world, and
Sustainable GSK manufactures around 1.5 billion tablets
innovative medicines to more people a year. Our antibiotics have the third largest
antibiotics
carbon footprint of any of our products, and
around the world and we are committed based on sales projections, this footprint will
increase by 2020.
to reducing our environmental The traditional process to synthesise amoxicillin
requires energy-intensive cooling and large
volumes of organic solvents, which create
impact as we do so.
waste. However, the green chemistry team
at our site in Singapore has developed
a way, by using an enzyme, that could
Environmental sustainability is a priority for GSK. The effects cut carbon emissions from this process
of climate change and water scarcity could undermine hard-won by 36,000 tonnes and reduce organic waste
by around 2,400 tonnes.
improvements in global health, and the natural resources we rely
on to produce our medicines and other products are becoming The enzyme ‘couples’ two compounds
together in water to form amoxicillin, using
scarcer and more expensive. Our stakeholders expect us to manage
fewer steps, less cooling and fewer organic
our environmental impacts responsibly.
solvents than the traditional chemical
Our goal is to reduce
process. This innovation makes an important
By reducing our footprint, using resources more efficiently, and
our carbon footprint by contribution to our goal to reduce our
working with others to tackle these challenges, we can reduce costs,
25% across the business carbon footprint by 25% across the business
build competitiveness and create trust in our business. by 2020. Our antibiotics are sold in a highly
by 2020
competitive market, so these improvements
We have set ambitious goals to reduce carbon, water and waste across can also help to differentiate the product.
our value chain – from our use of raw materials and the impacts of In 2012, we announced plans to invest
$40–60 million (Singapore dollars)
our suppliers to the footprint of our labs and factories, and the use
in converting to enzymatic amoxicillin
and disposal of our products by patients and consumers. To meet
manufacturing at our Quality Road site
these goals, we must involve our employees and partners. in Singapore.
Read more onlineGSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 63
Overview
2012 at a glance
Carbon Established an inhaler recovery and recycling Our commitments External perspective
service in the UK, USA and Chile, collecting
Despite reducing our carbon from energy use more than 90,000 used inhalers in the UK. • Reduce our overall carbon footprint
by 15% since 2010, our total carbon footprint by 25% by 2020 (vs. 2010) and have
(excluding that from raw materials) has See page 67 a carbon neutral value chain by 2050.
All companies and organisations, both
increased by 7% from 2010 driven by higher
inhaler sales. • By 2020, reduce our water impact across public and private, are closely examining
the value chain by 20% (vs. 2010). how they can add social and business
See page 65 7%
value while operating within financial
i • By 2020, reduce our operational waste
and environmental limits. GSK has risen
by 50% (vs. 2010).
to this challenge by being committed
Water
• Build sustainable supply lines for our to examining the environmental footprints
nutrition portfolio and work with local
Reduced water consumption in our own of their products and services. Moving
farmers to improve their agricultural
operations by 14% compared to 2010. forward, GSK will need to improve the
practices, improve their yields, their
competitiveness and their livelihoods. environmental efficiency of their products
See page 66
and services, and at the same time
acknowledge that they may need to adapt
Managing other impacts
their core business to move towards services
Created a Green Chemistry that promote and protect health.
Performance Unit to research
ways to replace hazardous
chemicals and processes with
lower impact alternatives.
See page 68
Pledged £12 million to establish a Centre of
Excellence for green chemistry in collaboration
with the University of Nottingham, UK.
Waste
See page 68
Cut total waste by 9% and sent 40% less waste
to landfill compared with 2010.
Engagement
See page 66
Engaged 32 suppliers
40% David Pencheon,
on carbon, water and 32
Director of the NHS Sustainable Development Unit
waste reduction.
http://www.sdu.nhs.uk
See page 69GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 64
Carbon
Our long-term goal is for Understanding our CO value chain carbon footprint 15 million tonnes per annum (tpa)
2
our value chain to be carbon
neutral by 2050. This means Raw materials
38%
we need to look at every We estimate that impacts in our supply chain from the raw
2010 estimate materials we source account for about 38% of the carbon
process associated with our 5.6 million tpa footprint of our products. We are working with suppliers to help
them reduce their impacts and use resources more efficiently.
products – from sourcing raw
materials to manufacturing, 11% Operations CO2 generated from operations
use and product disposal. Our operations generate CO2 emissions, mainly from 1805
Includes energy and production- energy use, accounting for around 11% of our products’ 1711 1697 CO2
related emissions (HFA134a during total carbon footprint. We are looking for ways to make
inhaler manufacture plus emissions) our processes more efficient and use less energy.
s6%
1.7 million tpa
2010 2011 2012
Absolute emissions from
operations, transport and 3% Transport and logistics CO2 generated from transport & logistics
inhaler use We generate emissions from business travel, which 466 468
we aim to minimise, and from transporting products 430
Logistics, sales force CO2
Our carbon footprint has increased by 7% and business travel to our customers. 9%
excluding the contribution of raw materials. 0.5 million tpa i
While we reduced carbon from our energy 2010 2011 2012
use by 15% since 2010, increased inhaler 35% Metered dose inhaler use CO2 generated from metered dose inhaler use
sales have resulted in a 12% rise in carbon
since 2010. Emissions associated with use of our metered 5,198
Inhaler use dose inhalers account for 35% of our value chain 4,647 4,760 CO2
5.2 million tpa carbon footprint. 12%
i
7,364 CO2
2010 2011 2012
6,937
6,882 i7% Other product use
7%
Emissions associated with use of our other products
(such as boiling water to make Horlicks) by patients and
Estimate from use of other
2010 2011 2012 products (eg boiling water customers account around 7% of our overall footprint.
for Horlicks)
1 million tpa
End of life
assured by <1%
Emissions from disposal of our products make up less than
1% of their carbon footprint. Inhalers have the biggest
Disposal
impact and we are starting to collect inhalers for recycling
<0.2 million tpa
to reduce this (see page 67).
The % contributions are based on assuming our value chain footprint is 15 million tonnes CO2GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 65
Carbon continued
For our 2011 performance, we again achieved We have upgraded on-site power generation
Case study
global certification to the Carbon Trust facilities to combined heat and power plants
Standard, which certifies that across the and now have 18 operating units across
company we are making year-on-year overall 12 sites. This has saved 40,000 tonnes of CO2 Cutting carbon footprint of Horlicks
reductions in emissions associated with equivalent per year. Approximately 2% of our
operations and transport for the time period. energy needs are supplied by renewable Horlicks, our nutritional drink, is the Additionally, we are introducing
GSK is the only multinational to have sources of energy at 23 of our sites. second largest source of carbon emissions low-carbon biomass energy generation
achieved this standard to date. in our product range (after inhalers) in Horlicks factories using waste wood
We are continuing to research specific aspects
estimated at 800,000 tonnes CO2. If we to replace coal, which we expect to
Performance in 2012 of our carbon footprint to help us identify
can cut emissions from Horlicks we will save 28,000 tonnes of CO2 equivalent
opportunities for reductions. As of the end take an important step towards meeting annually by 2015.
The carbon footprint excluding the
2012 we had completed carbon footprint our climate change goals.
contribution from raw materials (which we
analyses of more than 30 products and
cannot currently measure on an annual basis) We analysed the carbon footprint of
identified changes that could reduce emissions
has increased by 7% compared to 2010. Horlicks in 2010, and found that milk
in manufacture and use. We are focusing on
We reduced the carbon footprint from energy production accounted for more than half of
projects that have the potential to achieve
for operations by 15% compared to 2010 but emissions across its value chain. To tackle
significant reductions, but we will not ignore
increased sales resulted in a rise in the carbon this we went back to the source – buffalo
opportunities to make smaller changes that
footprint of product transportation. The use and dairy cows. By enhancing an established
together can add up to big savings.
and disposal of our metered dose inhalers Indian government programme to help
account for approximately 35% of our value We participate in the Carbon Disclosure farmers learn about modern milking
chain carbon footprint. Increased inhaler Project – an investor-led initiative aimed at techniques – and giving them access to
sales have resulted in a 12% rise in greenhouse improving transparency around corporate better veterinary care – we are increasing
our milk production per cow, which will
gas emissions from inhaler use (compared carbon emissions – and report annually to
reduce the overall carbon footprint.
to 2010). However, we have carbon reduction the project on our policies, programmes and
projects underway that should enable us to performance in this area. Details can be seen
reach our interim target to cut our value on the CDP website.
chain carbon footprint by 10% to 13.5 million
We have also collaborated with organisations
tonnes of CO2 equivalent by 2015.
such as the National Health Service
Sustainable Development Unit and the
Association of the British Pharmaceutical
Industry to develop carbon footprinting
guidance for pharmaceutical companies.
assured byGSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 66
Water and waste
Minimising waste and Water Following a suggestion from an employee, Waste
instead of pulling fresh water from the local
water use helps reduce
GSK is a signatory to the UN CEO Water supply for each stage, water is now recycled, In 2012, we reduced the amount of total
our environmental footprint, Mandate, an initiative to help companies saving around 30 million litres every year, or waste (hazardous and non-hazardous) by 9%
improve efficiency and develop, implement and disclose sustainable 20% of water used at the plant. compared to 2010, making progress towards
water practices. our targets to cut waste by 25% by 2015 and
save money, while protecting In Nabha, India – another water-stressed 50% by 2020.
This demonstrates our commitment to region – our staff have achieved a 48%
limited natural resources.
working with governments, civil society and reduction in water use since 2003, from We also reduced waste sent to landfill by 41%
other stakeholders to protect and fulfil the 635 million litres to 330 million litres. compared to 2010, working towards our goal
human right to water as defined by the United Measures have included making sure water of zero waste to landfill by 2020. A total of
Nations – and in particular to reducing our use is measured and metered, not using 34 manufacturing sites now send no waste
water consumption in parts of the world where pressure hoses for general cleaning, to landfill. We have made these reductions
it will make the biggest difference. We are re-using treatment water for watering plants, through a number of measures, including
developing a longer-term water strategy with and recirculating cooling water. the recovery of more of the solvents used in
input from NGOs to build on commitments manufacturing our active pharmaceutical
made in the Water Mandate and plan to We respond annually to the CDP Water ingredients and improving waste segregation
launch this before 2015. Disclosure Project, an investor-led initiative across our plants and offices.
that supports sustainable corporate water
We use fresh water in manufacturing processes management, and our latest submission to
and within products such as drinks and the project can be found on the CDP website.
vaccines. But around 80% of our value chain
water footprint is associated with the sourcing
of raw materials, for instance the milk used in
Net water consumption in our operations Total waste generated
products such as Horlicks.
million cubic metres Thousand tonnes
Our target is to reduce the impact of water 16.1 294000t
18.7 324 319
consumption across the value chain by 20% 17.4
294
by the end of 2020. We think it is important 16.1
cubic metres Excludes non-routine
14.9
to start with our own operations before asking waste from construction
238 and demolition
others to change, not least because we can
learn valuable lessons that can be shared 162
with suppliers.
Total waste
Many effective ideas for reducing water use 2020 target
assured by
come from employees, especially in water-
stressed areas. For example, at our plant in
Port Fairy, Australia, water is required for
three stages of the manufacturing process. 2010 2011 2012 2015 target 2010 2011 2012 2015 targetGSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 67
Water and waste continued
Waste to landfill hazardous waste incinerated by 130 tonnes Packaging
be using survey responses from our suppliers
per year, saving £250,000 and 520 tonnes
Thousand tonnes
10.3000t
of CO2 equivalent. The packaging used for our products is highly oto
u
i rd te an rgti ef ty
s
.where to prioritise actions to meet
17.5 visible to patients and consumers. Our aim is to
Mass efficiency
use paper and packaging materials made from We continue to recycle PET from packaging
wood that has been grown and harvested trays used to deliver components to our sites at
13.5 12.9 0 In 2012 we made further progress on improving responsibly. During 2012 we surveyed suppliers Ware, UK, and Evreux, France. This means we
mass efficiency, which is a measure of the
of carton board packaging, corrugated packing, purchase less recycled PET on the open market
10.3 Waste to landfill amount of raw materials required to make
2020 target and leaflet paper. With the Rainforest Alliance, to make Ribena bottles which we make using
a new active pharmaceutical ingredient and
we have developed an internal policy and will 100% recycled PET.
weighted to account for scale of manufacture.
We prioritise larger scale processes where
introducing new chemistry or solvent recovery Case study
has the biggest benefit. This mass efficiency
figure represents a snapshot of our performance. Inhaler recycling programmes
2010 2011 2012 2015 target In 2011 one of the products transferred to
manufacturing was a large scale process with
Recovering solvents After patients finish with their GSK inhalers, flowerpots, while the remaining gas will
a developed solvent recovery process resulting inhalers usually end up in landfill as waste. be captured and the metal components
If water is excluded, solvents make up more in an average mass efficiency of 2.8%. In 2012 Complete the Cycle is a new recovery and will be recycled.
than 80% of the material used to make an lower volume products were transferred and recycling programme aimed at reducing
We also have inhaler recycling schemes
active pharmaceutical ingredient. We use the mass efficiency was slightly lower at that waste. In the UK in 2012 we expanded
in Chile, and are exploring options in
around 175,000 tonnes of solvents a year 2.3% but still a good improvement on 2010. a pilot programme and have now collected
Australia, Japan, the Czech Republic,
and recover 85% for re-use. Mass efficiency of primary processes m weo r he a t vh ea sn a v9 e0 d,0 60 20 8 i n toh na nle er ss . o W f Ce O e 2s t ti om da at te e t .h at Hungary and the Nordic countries.
Re-using solvents can significantly reduce We will be making Complete the Cycle In manufacturing we are also working
(%)
waste and save money on disposal and available across the UK in 2013. with a supplier, the Presspart Group, to use
2.3%
buying new solvent. 2.8 recycled aluminium in the cans of our Ventolin,
In the USA we expanded a similar
2.5 Seretide/ Advair and Flixotide metered dose
We continue to look for opportunities in 2.3 programme from five to 31 cities, where
inhalers where possible. As a result, carbon
manufacturing. In 2012, for instance, we participating pharmacies receive kits that
emissions from producing cans for GSK have
introduced recovery of diisopropyl ether include special containers for customers to
been reduced by around 11,000 tonnes of
solvent at Ulverston in the UK, where we drop off inhalers. Pharmacies are supplied
manufacture antibiotics. This will reduce
1.5
with prepaid envelopes so inhalers can
CO2 equivalent per year.
be sent free-of-charge to a specialised
assured by recycler. The plastics are used to make
6 82t
new household products, such as plastic
2010 2011 2012 2015 target
CO2 savedGSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 68
Managing other impacts
In addition to our priority Green chemistry Chlorofluorocarbon (CFC) refrigerants Compliance and fines
focus areas of carbon, water
‘Green chemistry’ aims to replace hazardous We are working towards eliminating our No fines were reported this year.
and waste, we manage a chemicals and processes with those that have inventory of chlorofluorocarbon (CFC)
Internal audit
a smaller environmental impact. In 2012 we refrigerants, which deplete the ozone layer.
range of other important
We audit our operations to make sure
created a Green Chemistry Performance Unit In 2012 we removed more than 90% of our
environmental issues. to put green chemistry theories into practice. remaining CFCs (3.2 tonnes) by disposing of environmental risks and impacts are
identified and managed effectively.
The unit has published 12 internal guides that two large pieces of chilling equipment where
The need for audit is determined based
help employees make better chemical choices the CFC was recovered and safely destroyed,
on business knowledge, modelling of risk
when designing or developing products. and selling a building which contained two
indicators and trends from previous audit
large chiller units to a third party. This means
During the year we formalised a £12 million findings. The team responsible for auditing
we now have only low volumes of CFCs
collaboration with the University of environmental, health and safety (EHS) are
(collectively less than 300kg) in small pieces
Nottingham in the UK to establish a Centre all certified ISO 14001 Environmental
of equipment at various sites across the world.
of Excellence for green chemistry and to Management lead auditors.
These will be disposed of safely over time as
construct a carbon neutral sustainable
the equipment is decommissioned. In 2012 there were EHS audits at 31 sites
chemistry laboratory. The Centre, which
is scheduled for completion in 2014, will Remediation globally across different business units.
These audits included a review of
encourage the development of cleaner,
Waste disposal and industrial activity can environmental management systems.
safer and more efficient processes.
contaminate soil, surface or ground water. The management of environmentally
Pharmaceuticals in the environment GSK takes responsibility for environmental hazardous materials in waste water was
remediation work at facilities we have used audited as a theme across manufacturing sites
Pharmaceuticals are not always completely
previously and at the disposal sites of waste resulting in a number of improvements.
absorbed or broken down by the body, and
management companies we have used but
residues can find their way into the Read about EHS audits of key suppliers in the
which have gone out of business. There are
environment when excreted or if unused Supply Chain section.
currently 23 environmental remediation sites
medicines are disposed of by consumers. Our
around the world for which GSK has part or
policy statement on pharmaceuticals in the
sole responsibility.
environment is available online. We continue
to participate in research on this important During 2012 we spent $3.8 million on
issue, partnering with the Universities of environmental remediation. It is estimated
Birmingham, Cambridge and York in the that future remediation work will cost
UK and working with industry and trade approximately $40.4 million.
assured by associations such as the European Federation
of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations.GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 69
Engagement
Engagement with Engaging employees Engaging suppliers
employees and suppliers
We need our employees to understand the As around 40% of our carbon footprint lies Read more online
helps deliver our strategic environmental challenges we face, the value of in our supply chain, we must engage with
environmental objectives. what they contribute as teams and individuals, suppliers if we are to reduce our environmental We publish more detail online on key
and what else we can achieve together. impacts. Using the carbon footprint analysis issues including:
Environmental issues To get employees involved, we have set up a of our top 20 products as a starting point, • Climate change
are often complex and global network of ‘sustainability advocates’. we have begun to talk to our supply chain • Hazardous chemical management
partners about carbon, water and waste
we can address them These employees typically volunteer to take • Genetically modified micro-organisms and
reduction. We have asked them for data Environment, Health and Safety (EHS)
on the role, and are enthusiasts who promote
more effectively on their own environmental footprints, • GSK and REACH
sustainability among colleagues, changing
by working together. practices and behaviours at work and at home. and organised workshops to work with them • GSK and the convention on biological diversity
to identify opportunities for carbon savings. • Nanomaterials
Advocates help to establish waste reduction During 2012 we engaged with 32 key suppliers • Ozone depletion and metered-dose inhalers
programmes, encourage employees to share on environmental issues. for asthma
good environmental practices and promote • Pharmaceuticals in the environment
community projects. As well as increasing • The impact of climate change on health
awareness, many advocate-led projects result • Use of ozone-depleting substances in
in savings for GSK. We use social networking ancillary plant and equipment
to encourage discussion, generate ideas and
enable employees to make new connections.
Our CEO also runs annual awards to recognise
the contributions and innovations of teams
around the company on environment, health,
safety and sustainability. This year we had
62 entries for the sustainability award section.
assured byGSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 70
Data summary
Our environment, health and safety data Performance data summary
in this report is assured by Bureau Veritas.
2015 target
Read their assurance statement and our 2011 2010 % change % change
2012 Note 1 Note 1 since 2010 Note 6
response on page 71.
Carbon (thousand tonnes CO2-equivalents per annum)
For a more detailed breakdown of metrics
Carbon footprint Note 2 Note 2 15,000 Note 3 _ -10
and more data please see the download
Climate change impacts from:
available online.
Raw materials Note 2 Note 2 5,660 _
Operations (operational energy and other sources) Note 5 1,698.2 1,710.9 1,805.0 -5.9
Operational energy 1,300.5 1,416.3 1,528.5 -14.9
Transport 468.1 466.1 430.0 8.9
Product transport 202.7 199.9 Note 4 169.1 Note 4 19.9
Employee air travel 89.4 97.2 95.8 -6.7
Sales force vehicles 167.0 168.9 165.1 1.2
Inhaler use by patients 5,198 4,760 4,647 12.0
Water (million cubic metres)
Water use from operations 16.1 17.4 18.7 -13.9 -20
Waste (thousand tonnes)
Total operational waste generated 294 319 324 -9.2 -25
Total operational waste to landfill 10.3 13.5 17.5 -40.9 -25
1. 2010 and 2011 values have been restated from our previous report where some estimated data were included when actual data were not available.
2. We will reassess our carbon footprint across our value chain in 2015; annual performance is not available.
3. We investigated the use phase of our products in partnership with the University of Manchester, UK and estimated that the use of our products (not including inhalers) adds
approximately 1 million tonnes CO2e to our value chain footprint.
4. In 2012, we have revised the emission factor used for refrigerated cargo ocean transportation with the one published in the 2nd International Marine Organisation (IMO) GHG Study 2009.
We have restated the data for 2011 and 2010.
5. Other sources include the CO2 equivalent impact of inhaler production losses, leaks from chillers, production-related releases, waste treatment related releases.
6. 2010 baseline.
assured byGSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 71
Summary of assurance statement
Basis of reporting Sites were selected for review from all of The scope and methodology included an GSK’s response to assurance
and external assurance the GSK businesses. Site-specific audits were assessment of EHS data and associated data
conducted at six sites where data was verified management processes. This involved detailed We are pleased with Bureau Vertitas’
Energy and CO2 emissions data are collected back to source. There was special focus on review of the integrity of selected datasets findings on GSK’s progress in managing and
from all 75 of our pharmaceuticals and sites that had been top contributors to and data aggregation and checking processes reducing EHS impacts. We are committed to
consumer healthcare manufacturing sites, environmental emissions the previous year, at a corporate level as well as sampling data continued improvement, with the ultimate
16 vaccines sites, 15 pharmaceuticals and sites that had not be previously visited in back to source at six GSK sites. These sites were goal of providing the most accurate EHS data
consumer healthcare R&D sites, the UK prior years, and sites that had difficulty chosen to represent the manufacturing sites to the public on our website. In 2013, we
headquarters building and 59 offices and submitting data in a timely manner. with greatest emissions; the range of different will continue to work toward improving
distribution centres. Water and non-hazardous GSK operations (ie GMS, vaccines and our data accuracy with an emphasis on
Bureau Veritas’ Summary
waste data are collected from all our R&D); and geographical spread. Interviews incorporating the recommendations provided
independent assurance statement
manufacturing and vaccines operations, were also undertaken with EHS Directors by Bureau Veritas.
R&D and major office locations. Based on Bureau Veritas UK Ltd has been engaged by to understand GSK’s sustainability strategy, Read GSK’s full response to assurance here
our materiality assessment, we do not collect GSK to provide independent assurance of the objectives, targets, implementation plans
hazardous waste and wastewater data from Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) data and progress.
offices and sites that manufacture consumer
and related information within the People
It is Bureau Veritas’ opinion that GSK’s 2012
healthcare and nutritional products, while
and Planet Sections of its 2012 Corporate
Corporate Responsibility Report demonstrates
volatile organic compound (VOCs) are
Responsibility Report. The report pages that
an understanding of the EHS material issues
reported only from sites that manufacture
have undergone assurance are indicated
and GSK has generally made good progress in
pharmaceuticals and contain R&D pilot plants.
by the Bureau Veritas logo with comment
managing and reducing its EHS impacts. The
We use the Greenhouse Gas Protocol for all
‘Assured by Bureau Veritas’. The full assurance
report provides a fair summary of EHS-related
of our calculations of CO2 emissions from
statement can be found here. This includes full
activities and performance metrics and data
energy use, propellants and refrigerants.
details of the scope of work, methodology,
are free from omission and significant error;
We use CO2 country factors for electricity
findings and recommendations
published by the International Energy for improvement. The full assurance statement includes
Agency in 2011. recommendations for improvement, including
refinement of data collection processes.
This is the first year Bureau Veritas UK Ltd has
been engaged by GSK to provide independent
assurance of the Environment, Health and
Safety (EHS) data and related information
within the People and Planet Sections of
its 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report.
London
February 2013GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 72
Governance and engagement
Good governance and Governance The Board-level Audit and Risk Committee, Audit and assurance
transparent reporting are focuses on the key business risk areas for We assess many aspects of our responsibility
Our Corporate Executive Team (CET), GSK, including non-financial and reputational performance through our internal and
part of our commitment headed by CEO Andrew Witty, is accountable risks, supported by our Risk Oversight and external assurance processes. Our Audit &
to be open about our for responsible management of the business Compliance Council (ROCC) to ensure that Assurance department has responsibility
and for overseeing relevant policies and effective internal controls are implemented for independently assessing the adequacy
business activities. We also programmes at GSK. for all significant risks. The ROCC is chaired and effectiveness of the management of
engage stakeholders directly CET members also participate in our Board- by our Corporate Compliance Officer and significant risk areas and reporting outcomes
to understand and prioritise level Corporate Responsibility Committee includes at least three members of the CET. to the Audit and Risk Committee in line
(CRC). The CRC provides high-level guidance Other members include the General Counsel, with an agreed Assurance Plan. This includes
the issues that are most
on our approach, and reviews our policies Company Secretary and the Head of Audit & assessing, on a sample basis, the process
important to them. and progress. During 2012 the CRC Assurance, with additional members added and controls in place to comply with laws,
members were Sir Christopher Gent (Chair), as appropriate. regulations and company standards across GSK.
Dr Stephanie Burns, Dr Daniel Podolsky and We manage specific issues through governance The audit team recommends improvements
Lynn Elsenhans (who joined in October 2012). bodies such as our Sustainability Steering Team, for any issues identified and GSK managers
The CRC meets four times a year, or more consisting of senior leaders from across the develop action plans to address the causes of
frequently if necessary. Reports from senior business who bring a perspective from GSK’s non-compliance and gaps in internal controls.
managers and members of the CET enable different businesses to environmental debates Audit & Assurance tracks these plans through
the members to review and ensure progress and shape our environmental strategy, making to completion and reports results to senior
on responsible management of the business. sure it is intergrated. management and the Audit and Risk Committee.
The Committee reports its findings to the
Read more about assurance, internal audit
Board each year, and a summary of the 2012
and risk management in the Governance section
CR Committee Report is contained in our
of our Annual Report.
Annual Report.
See our Annual Report for more detailsGSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 73
Governance and engagement continued
Stakeholder engagement • Meetings with investors to discuss aspects About our reporting
of GSK’s responsible business strategy.
Engagement and dialogue enables us to We report our performance annually in this
understand the needs of key stakeholders and • Our employee survey, which received report as part of our commitment to be open
keep in touch with their views. Their feedback responses from 68,000 respondents and transparent about our business activities.
allows us to identify important issues – (a 72% participation rate) and gave Responsible business is also covered in our
current and emerging – and shapes our us valuable insights into staff views about Annual Report.
responses to these issues to ensure they are the strengths and weaknesses of GSK
Reporting standards
in the best interests of wider society as well (see page 57).
Our Global Reporting Index shows which
as our shareholders. It also helps to build • A broad range of engagement with NGOs,
elements of the guidelines are covered in the
trust in GSK. international organisations, governments
report. As a member of the UN Global
Most of our engagement takes place in the and other policymakers to better understand Compact, GSK also publishes an index
normal course of business – in day-to-day the issues around increasing access to to show how we are reporting in line with
interactions with customers, employees, healthcare in a sustainable way. In 2012, Global Compact expectations.
suppliers and other partners. But we also carry we acted as co-chair of the UK’s Industry
out more formal and structured engagement, Government Forum on Access to Medicines Data coverage
including through meetings, consultations, and participated in the Partners Forum of Data in this report relates to worldwide
surveys and participation in conferences and the UK Government’s Global Health Strategy; operations for the calendar year 2012,
debates. We provide training to help managers attended WHO Executive Board meetings except where otherwise stated. Data in
in our markets communicate with local and the World Health Assembly; participated the environment and health and safety
stakeholders on our approach to responsible as board members of the GAVI Alliance and sections has been independently verified
business and transparency. Roll Back Malaria Partnership and engaged by Bureau Veritas. Brand names appearing
with the Intergovernmental Meeting on in italics throughout this report are
Examples of how we engaged stakeholders are Pandemic Influenza Preparedness. trademarks owned by and/or licensed
included throught this report, but in addition,
to GSK or associated companies.
in 2012 we undertook:
• Consultation with non governmental
organisations, global public health groups,
socially responsible investors and
sustainability think tanks on GSK’s
existing, and future responsible business
commitments. This included a roundtable
meeting, interviews and a survey facilitated
by Business for Social Responsibility that
helped shape our promises and goals
(see page 8).www.gsk.com Your feedback counts
Here you will find down-loadable PDFs of: We welcome your feedback on our responsible
business performance and reporting.
• Annual Report 2012
Please let us know if you would like to receive
• Annual Summary 2012
regular updates on our progress.
• Form 20-F csr.contact@gsk.com
• Corporate Responsibility Report 2012
Head Office and Registered Office You can also search for us here
GlaxoSmithKline plc
980 Great West Road
Brentford, Middlesex TW8 9GS
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)20 8047 5000
Registered number: 3888792
Photocredits:
Front cover and Health for all divider page:
Marcus Perkins
Our behaiour divider page:
Getty Images
Our people divider page:
Tom Whipps
Our planet divider page:
Getty Images