GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2004
1. CEO/Chairman Statement Page 4
2. Employment Practices Page 6
Global Leadership Survey 2004
Diversity
Employee Development
Internal Communication
Health and Safety
3. Human Rights Page 38
Employees
Suppliers
4. Access to Medicines Page 43
Developing World
Developed World
5. Leadership and Advocacy Page 60
HIV/AIDS Accelerating Access Initiative
Patient Advocacy
GSK’s Unique Business Model for Vaccines
Science Policy Conferences
Importation of Medicines
6. Community Investment Page 68
Value of Community Investment
Humanitarian Relief
Major Public Health Initiatives
Community Partnerships
Supporting Education
Employee Involvement
7. Engagement with Stakeholders Page 82
Engagement on Corporate Responsibility
Engagement with Investors
8. Standards of Ethical Conduct Page 88
Code of Conduct
Management Certification on Business Ethics
Training and Awareness
Monitoring
9. Research and Innovation Page 96
Animal Research
Conduct of Clinical Trials
Training and Auditing for Clinical Trials
Public Disclosure of Trial Results
10. Products and Customers Page 107
Marketing Codes of Practices
Marketing Training and Compliance
XEDNI
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 111. Caring for the Environment
EHS Management Page 115
Energy & Climate Impact
Water
Waste
Ozone Depletion
Volatile Organic Compounds
Product Stewardship
Suppliers
Compliance
Verification Statement
Progress Towards Targets
12. Managing CR
Page 178
13. Summary of Indicators and About This Report Pages 184, 185
This report is printed from the online 2004 GSK Corporate Responsibility
Report, published on 24th March 2005 on www.gsk.com.
The option to print the report is provided for the convenience of readers who
prefer a hard copy of the report. It is not intended to be a substitute for the full
online report, which has links to further information. These links are shown in
underlined blue font throughout the printed report.
Brand names appearing in italics throughout this report are trademarks either
owned by and/or licensed to GlaxoSmithKline or associated companies, with
the exception of Viramune, a trademark of Boehringer Ingelheim.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 2CEO/CHAIRMAN STATEMENT
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 3Through our products GSK delivers clear benefits to patients around the
world. Great products, however, are not the whole story -- society expects
companies to act responsibly in their pursuit of success. If anything, the fact
that our business is about human health makes it even more important that
we operate to the highest standards.
Corporate responsibility is not just a job for selected people at GSK, it defines
the way we do business. Our ten corporate responsibility principles set the
standard for everyone, since responsible business is only a reality if it is
practised by all employees at all times. In this report we show our progress
against each principle.
We are reporting significant achievements in 2004. GSK is one of the leading
pharmaceutical companies in the essential area of improving access to
medicines in the developing world. For example, this year we tripled
shipments of our preferentially-priced Combivir tablets to help alleviate
HIV/AIDS in the developing world. Over 80% of these went to Africa, and we
also granted five more voluntary licences to African companies to produce
HIV treatments locally.
We are proud of our commitment to communities around the world. Our total
community investment in 2004 was £328 million ($600 million). This includes
our donation of 67 million tablets to support the elimination of lymphatic
filariasis, a debilitating disease that threatens one billion people in the
developing world.
Responsible business practices are also the key to a good reputation. In
2004, the pharmaceutical industry and GSK continued to come under public
scrutiny on how medicines are developed, tested and marketed. To meet this
challenge we must act with integrity and be open about our approach to these
important issues. We took an important step this year with the launch of our
Clinical Trial Register, providing public access to our product information.
We also want to make information on our corporate responsibility performance
more widely available. The transition of the 2004 report to the internet, and the
integration of our environmental, health and safety information, means this
information is now accessible by more of our stakeholders.
We invite you to read this report for more information on all our corporate
responsibility principles, and we welcome your comments and suggestions.
Sir Christopher Gent Dr JP Garnier
Chairman Chief Executive
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 4EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 52. Employment
Practices
2.1 GSK Leadership 2.2 Diversity 2.3 Employee 2.4 Internal 2.5 Health &
Survey 2004 Development Communication Safety
Employment 2
Employment Practices
Corporate responsibility principle
We will treat our employees with respect and dignity, encourage diversity
and ensure fair treatment through all phases of employment. We will
provide a safe and healthy working environment, support employees to
perform to their full potential and take responsibility for the performance
and reputation of the business.
To learn more on employment practices visit our website
GSK employs 100,000 people in 116 countries.
The success of our business depends on us getting the best from our people.
We do this by creating a positive working environment, offering competitive
reward packages that emphasise performance, providing opportunities for
training and advancement, and by listening and responding to employees’
feedback.
We expect employees to meet high standards in the way they carry out their
work for GSK. The GSK Spirit defines our culture and the principles we
expect employees to work by. These are:
• performance with integrity
• entrepreneurial spirit
• focus on innovation
• a sense of urgency
• passion for achievement
Regular performance appraisals assess whether employees have upheld
these principles and the requirements of our Code of Conduct in their work.
The results affect bonuses and career progression. See Standards of Ethical
Conduct in the website for more information on our Code of Conduct.
This section explains our approach and performance in 2004. It covers:
• the results of our 2004 Global Leadership survey assessing employee
satisfaction and the development of GSK’s culture
• our programmes to recruit and retain a diverse workforce
• employee development and performance appraisals
• how we communicate with employees and get their feedback
• our health, safety and wellbeing programmes
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 6Case study
Improving Ergonomics at our Barnard Castle Site
The new isolator is one of 80 ergonomic improvement projects at Barnard
Castle
We have taken several initiatives to reduce ergonomic risks at our Barnard
Castle site in northern England in 2004. The site won first place for safety in
our 2004 internal Environment, Health and Safety awards for excellence.
The Ergonomic Improvement Team (EIT) was formed at the site in 2001 to
combat increasing lost time illnesses and injuries related to musculoskeletal
disorders such as repetitive strain injury. It includes 13 employees from a
range of different departments across the site.
Ergonomics are considered in the design of new equipment – we conduct risk
assessments and discomfort surveys, and consult trained local ergonomic
experts.
We encourage employees to be aware of ergonomics and have seen a 160%
increase in ergonomic hazards reported. The EIT has produced two
ergonomics manuals for employees, an awareness training package and
completed 80 improvement projects in a three year period (2002-2004)
including the ones described below.
Warehouse employees operating very narrow aisle (VNA) hi-racker trucks
complained of sore backs and wrists. The trucks were more than ten years
old, so we decided to buy a new fleet at a total cost of £347,000 ($635,000),
primarily to improve operator comfort. The trucks have better controls that
require less effort to manoeuvre, have more headroom to allow drivers to sit
or stand comfortably, and fully adjustable seats designed to provide good
back support. They are also more efficient and use less energy to operate.
We consulted employees when purchasing and installing a new isolator (to be
used for the biological testing of products) in order to identify and minimise
ergonomic risks. Responding to their comments, we modified the design of
the isolator to minimise the amount of bending, twisting and stretching
necessary to operate it.
In 2003, the site achieved its best ever EHS performance, with 3.4 million
hours worked without a lost time injury or illness.
The model developed at Barnard Castle is being rolled out across other GSK
sites.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 7Employment 2.1
Global Leadership Survey 2004
The sustainability of our success as a business rests significantly on
intangibles such as the quality of our leadership, our culture and our ability to
develop talented people. Regular employee surveys help us to monitor the
evolution of GSK’s culture and overall employee satisfaction with the
Company. The results are used to assess the effectiveness of our people
management practices and identify areas for improvement.
In 2004 we conducted our second Global Leadership Survey of GSK
managers. The survey was completed by over 9,500 managers in all countries
where GSK operates (an 83% response rate). It tracked their views against
our first survey in 2002 and against findings from other global companies such
as IBM and Microsoft.
Key Survey Findings
The responses were generally more positive than in 2002. There was a
significant improvement in the number of positive responses to 29 out of 31
core questions and, overall, responses were on average 4 points higher than
two years ago.
Areas that received high scores included business ethics, with 92% of
managers reporting that they understand how the GSK Code of Conduct
applies to their job responsibilities, pride in the company and clarity about how
their role is aligned with GSK’s wider strategy and mission. For example:
% 2004 % 2002
People in my department show commitment to performance 91 88
with integrity
I can see a clear link between my work and the company’s 87 85
objectives
The people I work with cooperate to get the job done 87 82
I am proud to be part of GSK 83 78
Strategies in my department support the pursuit of the GSK 85 81
mission
People in my department are committed and enabled to 82 76
make meaningful contributions
I feel encouraged to come up with new and better ways of 77 74
doing things
I can report unethical practices without fear of reprisal 76 70
I would gladly refer a good friend or family member to GSK 78 72
for employment
The survey also produced clear messages about areas for improvement.
Quite a few managers expressed concerns about workload and also
frustrations about not being able to do their best work. The areas that received
lower scores still showed improvement over 2002 and included:
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 8% 2004 % 2002
The amount of work I am expected to do is about right 45 42
GSK is a company where great people can do their best work 52 46
When choices have to be made, my manager usually places 54 48
quality over other business objectives (deadlines, budget, etc.)
How satisfied are you with the recognition you receive for doing 57 56
a good job?
Sufficient effort is made to get the opinions and thinking of 59 51
people who work here
Leaders in my department act as teachers, coaches, and 59 54
champions of development
I receive ongoing feedback that helps me improve my 61 57
performance
Comparisons With Other Companies
Responses to many of the survey questions can be compared with those
given by employees of other companies through a cross-company database.
This includes responses from around three million employees in 139
countries.
GSK scored highly compared to other companies in several areas. These
include:
• My manager effectively communicates GSK goals and objectives
• I can report unethical practices without fear of reprisal
• I have the authority to make decisions that improve the quality of my
work
We scored below average in other areas, including:
• The amount of work I am expected to do is about right
• When choices have to be made, my manager usually places quality
above other business objectives
It is important to understand the context of this second finding. This is a
business where exceptionally high quality standards are built in at every level.
Analysis of the response with employees indicated that their concern was
related to hitting deadlines, rather than quality per se.
Improvement Plans
The survey findings have been reviewed by GSK’s Corporate Executive Team
and our business units are developing plans to deliver improvements in key
areas.
For example, additional ethics training is planned for parts of the business that
scored lower than the GSK average on business ethics questions. Other
business units are looking at ways to improve the effectiveness of their
employee development, coaching and feedback systems.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 9Employment 2.2
Diversity
To learn more about diversity visit our website
GSK is committed to employing a diverse workforce in an environment where
all employees are treated with respect and dignity.
Diversity benefits our business. A workforce with diverse backgrounds,
cultures and outlooks helps us to understand the needs of different patients
and customers. Only by delivering genuine equality of opportunity can we be
sure that we have the best people in the right jobs doing their best work for
GSK.
We have a range of initiatives to ensure we meet our diversity commitments.
We also monitor and report data on gender diversity by management grade
worldwide and on ethnicity in the UK and US.
Activity and Performance in 2004
Disability Review
We conducted a comprehensive Disability Review in the UK during 2004 to
make sure GSK is meeting the needs of disabled employees and visitors.
The Review covered accessibility of our UK locations, the GSK web and
intranet sites and an audit of our employment policies.
During the Review we consulted with employee focus groups and external
organisations, including the Royal National Institute for the Blind and the
Employers Forum on Disability.
We carried out 21 audits to assess access to our sites and offices. They
identified physical changes needed to improve access, which are now being
implemented. We also provided training to our front of house employees so
they know how to assist disabled visitors when necessary.
Our internet site was also assessed and we are making improvements to
ensure it is compatible with browsers used by visually-impaired people. All job
applications to GSK must now be made over the internet, so it is particularly
important that the site is fully accessible and that help is readily available for
disabled applicants.
We have also provided training for employees working in human resources, to
make sure that disabled candidates receive equal consideration in our
recruitment processes.
GSK received the UK Government’s Two Ticks accreditation for its
commitment to employing disabled people.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 10Gender Diversity
Women in
management
Grades Female % Male % Total
A&B Bands 139 19% 587 81% 726
C01 - C03 1263 33% 2616 67% 3879
C04 - C05 2580 38% 4289 62% 6869
Total 3982 35% 7492 65% 11474
The total number of women in management increased incrementally this year;
however women remain under represented in senior grades. We will continue
to focus on ways of ensuring women have genuine equality of opportunity in
GSK.
We held our first Women in Science event in the UK in May 2004, enabling
female science graduates to give feedback on how GSK could attract more
women scientists. Women in Science will take place each year and we plan to
hold a similar event in the US during 2005.
Ethnic Diversity
UK employees from ethnic minorities Ethnicity of US employee population
19.8% People of colour
19.5%
In 2004, ethnic minorities accounted for 19.8% of UK employees. In the US,
people of colour made up 19.5% of our workforce, the same as for 2003.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 11Multi-Cultural Marketing and Diversity Awards
Our annual Multi-Cultural Marketing and Diversity Awards recognise staff who
have found creative ways to reach a wider audience of employees, customers
and communities.
Awards are given in several categories including one for Employee Attraction,
Development and Retention. This year’s winners included:
• An Asian Employee Support Group in North Carolina that provides
“English as a Second Language” classes and career development
coaching to its members
• Employee mentoring and summer internships to encourage young
women to become scientists
• The “Famili Vaccines” initiative in India, which encourages mothers to
have their children vaccinated. The campaign is delivered in 12
languages and conveys messages that take into account religious and
cultural differences across India
• A US “SeniorCare” programme to help elderly people cope with
diabetes and respiratory problems
Employee Networks
Our employee networks in the US encompass programmes for Asian, African
American, Hispanic and gay and lesbian employees. The first gay and lesbian
network leaders conference was held during 2004 to share practical strategies
for leading the employee groups.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 12Employment 2.3
Employee Development
GSK invests in training and development to enable employees to perform to
the best of their ability and to develop their careers.
We provide a range of job-related training to help all employees build their
skills and do their jobs effectively. In addition, appropriate leadership training
is available to all managers. Employees can enrol in training programmes
through our myLearning intranet site in the UK and US. During 2004, 8,882
employees attended 438 development programmes in these countries.
Similar opportunities exist for employees worldwide but data are not currently
collected on the take-up of the programme.
In 2004, 1540 people attended Leadership Edge, our global programme for
senior managers, and 412 attended Leadership@GSK, the programme for
middle managers. A further 221 employees attended our foundation
programme for new managers, Management@GSK. The programmes are
designed to help managers improve the performance of their staff and to
increase their insight into differing work styles, strengths and motivation. Also
in 2004 the Inspirational Leadership Workshop was launched to build on some
of the main concepts of Leadership Edge, focusing on the senior leadership
role of inspiring and motivating people to high performance to meet business
challenges. The Workshop is targeted at executives and senior leaders,
particularly those with significant influence over large numbers of staff.
Regular performance appraisals reward strong performance as well as
helping employees to set objectives and identify the training they need. More
than two-thirds of GSK employees receive an annual performance appraisal
through our Performance and Development Planning (PDP) programme.
The PDP process includes an assessment of how well employees have
implemented the GSK Spirit - the principles we use to define our culture. It
can have a significant impact on bonus payments, potentially reducing them to
zero if an employee is found not have followed the Spirit, and can also affect
future career development.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 13Employment 2.4
Internal Communication
Good internal communication is important in achieving our business
objectives as well as creating an open and inclusive work environment.
We have a range of communications channels to keep employees up-to-date
with company news and enable them to give feedback. These include:
• myGSK, our global intranet site, provides news and updates and a
Q&A section where employees can put questions directly to the CEO
and other senior executives. Up to 100 questions are answered each
month.
• Behind the News, a section of the GSK intranet, gives the company’s
position on important issues linked to press stories about GSK.
• Spirit, our internal magazine, reaches around 50,000 employees
throughout the company four times a year. In 2004 Spirit won a Gold
Award for Best Internal Magazine of the Year from Communicators in
Business Awards, Europe’s biggest and most prestigious awards
programme for corporate communications.
• “Townhall” sessions for employees at all levels of the company, hosted
by senior management including the CEO. Employees have the
opportunity to discuss the progress of the business, raise questions
and give feedback. There were 16 of these events in 2004.
• Employee surveys are carried out regularly throughout the organisation
to enable staff to give feedback. A global survey of managers is carried
out every two years. See Global Leadership Survey.
• A leadership conference for senior managers celebrated employee
contributions, GSK’s future vision of success and the role leaders play
in the company. Following the conference delegates debriefed their
teams on the messages and outcome of the conference. 97% of
managers who attended felt it was a worthwhile use of their time.
• Many of our sites and offices produce local newsletters that help keep
employees up-to-date on local and company news.
• Confidential feedback mechanisms enable employees to raise
concerns. These include our integrity helpline. See Standards of
Ethical Conduct.
• In Europe our Works Councils and European Employee Consultation
Forum provide regular opportunities for employees and company
management to discuss issues. See Human Rights in the website for
more information.
We also keep employees informed about our corporate responsibility
programmes. During 2005 all senior employees will receive a copy of our CR
Overview. The Overview will also be included in Spirit, our internal magazine,
which reaches around 50,000 employees.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 14We track the effectiveness of communications through questionnaires and
employee surveys. Our Leadership Survey in 2004 found that:
• 61% of respondents believe our communications are open, honest
and objective
• 75% feel they have access to the information they need to be an
ambassador for GSK.
See Global Leadership Survey in the website for more details.
We monitor the questions employees put to senior managers through the
Q&A pages on myGSK to ensure we pick up potential areas of concern. We
also track readership of news stories on myGSK to help improve the
relevance and interest of the content.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 15Employment 2.5
Health and Safety
How we Manage Health and Safety 18
Injury and Illness Rates 20
Causes of Injury and Illness 26
Serious Incidents and Fatalities 28
Health Programmes 29
Safety Programmes 33
Suppliers 35
The health and safety of employees and contractors is an absolute priority for
GSK. We systematically assess the risks associated with our operations and
take action to protect employees and others in the workplace.
We track the number of cases of work-related injury and illness resulting in
time off work. Our target is to reduce work-related lost time injuries and
illnesses per 100,000 hours worked by 15% every year until the end of 2005.
During 2004 our injury and illness rate remained almost constant and
therefore we did not meet our target. This may be partially explained by
improvements in our reporting systems, including training, resulting in more
accurate data.
We will redouble our efforts to resume the positive trend established between
2001 and 2003 that led to a 30% reduction in the illness and injury rate.
We routinely monitor the causes of incidents and assess what can be learned
to avoid them happening again.
About the Health and Safety Section of This Report
This is the 5th year that we have reported on our health and safety
performance. The legacy companies (Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline
Beecham) individually published EHS reports for a number of years prior to
the formation of GSK in 2000. Copies of these reports are available on the
Corporate Register website
In previous years, we have published a separate EHS report alongside our
Corporate Responsibility Report, but this year we have fully integrated the
two.
There are also more details about our corporate responsibility reporting in the
section about this report.
Scope of Data
The health and safety data covers the calendar year 2004. It is collected from
all our 84 pharmaceutical and consumer manufacturing sites, 6 of 8
biologicals manufacturing sites and all 24 R&D sites as well as all 6
distribution centres, all 6 major office locations and 63 of our smaller offices
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 16and sales locations. We include data for sites that were in operation for all or
part of the year.
Notes attached to the charts explain the scope and data collection process for
each parameter in more detail.
Verification
The environment, health and safety sections of this report are externally
verified by ERM (Environmental Resources Management). Web pages to
which the verification applies are indicated by this symbol
See ERM’s verification statement in this document.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 17Health and Safety 2.5.1
How we Manage Health and Safety
We manage health and safety through an integrated environment, health and
safety (EHS) management system. The system incorporates our EHS and
Employee Health Policies, EHS Vision and 64 Global EHS Standards. Our
EHS Plan for Excellence sets out our strategy for improving EHS performance
up to 2010. See more on our EHS Management System section in the
website.
Our Corporate Environment, Health and Safety (CEHS) and Employee Health
Management (EHM) teams help coordinate our health and safety
programmes. See more on our EHS Management Organisation section in the
website.
In these pages we summarise activities during 2004 that relate specifically to
health and safety. See the EHS Management in the website section of our
Corporate Responsibility Report for information on how we manage
environmental and broader EHS issues.
Health and Safety Feedback From our EHS Audits
We aim to conduct EHS audits at each operational site at least once every
four years. We carry out more frequent visits at selected sites, depending on
an assessment of risk and the issues raised by previous audits. In 2004, 33
sites were audited including three key office locations. The average score was
71%.
Our audits identified several priority areas:
-Chemical risk assessment and control.
-Managing resilience and mental well-being.
-Ergonomic risk assessment and control.
-Scope and adequacy of workplace risk assessments.
-Management systems approach to auditing EHS programmes.
-Root cause analysis of EHS incidents.
-Implementation of permit-to-work programmes.
-Management of contractors.
All sites are required to develop plans to address any weaknesses and
opportunities to improve identified in the audit. Auditors monitor sites’
progress in implementing the plans. In 2004 the EHS audit process and
scoring system were further refined based on experience and feedback. We
are trialling EHS auditing software on our intranet site to help the auditors
track progress, and aim to have a fully functional version ready in 2005.
OHSAS 18001 Certification
In 2004, four sites achieved certification to the international health and safety
standard OHSAS 18001 for the first time. This brings the total number of
manufacturing sites certified to 14 out of 84 pharmaceutical and consumer
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 18manufacturing sites with one additional site that certified only the utilities area.
The certified sites are in China, Egypt, France, India, Mexico, Poland, Turkey
and the UK. See audits and certification in the website for information on
certification to the environmental management standard ISO14001.
Health and Safety Week
GSK runs an annual Health and Safety Week every October (to coincide with
the European Health and Safety week). Information kits are sent to all sites to
help them develop ideas and plan activities. In 2004, over 13,800 employees
from 67 sites in 29 countries took part in the Health and Safety Week.
Activities included sports days, safe driving education, ergonomics training,
awareness-raising on healthy eating and lifestyles, and family participation
events.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 19Health and Safety 2.5.2
Injury and Illness Rates
The main indicator we use to measure health and safety is the lost time injury
and illness rate, ie work-related injuries and illnesses that result in time off
work. Other measures include lost calendar days from injuries and illnesses,
and reportable injury and illness without lost time.
Lost Time Injuries and Illnesses
Lost time injuries and illnesses are work-related incidents that are serious
enough to result in one or more days away from work.
In 2004 there were 519 lost time injuries and 61 lost time illnesses
corresponding to a combined rate of 0.30 per 100,000 hours worked.
At 71 sites in 35 countries, there were no lost time injuries or illnesses during
the year. At one site in China, there have been no lost time injuries or
illnesses for three years. In addition:
• two sites in Canada and Mexico achieved 5 million hours worked
without a lost time injury or illness;
• one site in Puerto Rico achieved 4 million hours worked without a lost
time injury or illness;
• three sites in Bangladesh, Pakistan and Singapore achieved 3 million
hours worked without a lost time injury or illness;
• three sites in India, Saudi Arabia and the US achieved 2 million hours
worked without a lost time injury or illness;
• ten sites in China, India, Pakistan, Poland, Spain, UK, and the US
achieved 1 million hours worked without a lost time injury or illness.
See more on injury and illness milestones in the website.
Cases of work-related mental ill health are excluded from the overall illness
rate. This is because the consistency of reporting such cases is less robust
than other occupational illnesses and there are variations in the way these
illnesses are defined under local legislation which affects reporting. However,
we are working to address these inconsistencies and aim to include these
cases at a future date. In 2004, there were 30 cases of work-related mental ill
health with lost time, a rate of 0.02 per 100,000 hours worked.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 20Performance
Lost Time Injury and Illness Rate
0.43
0.34
0.30 0.30
2001 2002 2003 2004
Injury
Illness
Lost Time Injury and Illness Rate by Business
R&D
Biologicals
Consumer
2001
Healthcare
2002
New Product 2003
and Global Supply 2004
Regional
Pharma Supply
Primary Supply
and Antibiotics
Commercial
Other
0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5
(per 100,000 hours worked)
We track the number of cases of work-related injury and illness resulting in
time off work. Our target is to reduce work-related lost time injury and illness
per 100,000 employees by 15% every year until the end of 2005. During 2004
our injury and illness rate remained almost constant and therefore we did not
meet our target. This may be partially explained by improvements in our
reporting systems, including training, resulting in more accurate data.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 21We will redouble our efforts to resume the positive trend established between
2001 and 2003 that led to a 30% reduction in the illness and injury rate.
In 2005 we will need to achieve a 24% improvement to put us back on track to
achieve our 2005 target.
Notes to Injury and Illness Charts The health and safety data cover both
our employees and contract workers who are directly supervised by GSK
employees.
All injury and illness rates are per 100,000 hours worked.
Lost time injuries and illnesses are work-related injuries and illnesses that are
serious enough to result in one or more days away from work.
Lost calendar days are the calendar days that employees could not work
because of work-related injuries and illnesses. This helps to provide a
measure of the severity of injuries and illnesses.
Reportable injuries and illnesses without lost time are reported incidents that
did not result in time away from work (lost time). They are more serious than
first aid but generally less serious than lost time.
We do not include cases of mental ill health in our lost time illness rates. This
is because of variations in the way mental ill-health is defined and reported
across sites, which we are working to address.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 22Lost Calendar Days From Injuries and Illnesses
We also measure the calendar days that employees could not work because
of work-related injuries and illnesses. This helps to provide a measure of the
severity of injuries and illnesses, although it is not always an accurate
reflection eg some illnesses such as hearing loss and sensitisation can result
in permanent disability without resulting in lost time.
In 2004, excluding work-related mental illness, there were 12,748 lost days
due to injury and 1,446 lost days due to illness. There were an additional
1,513 lost days due to work-related mental illness. In 2004, approximately
13% of illnesses resulted in permanent disabilities, such as noise induced
hearing loss, sensitisation to chemicals and some musculoskeletal illnesses.
Performance
Calendar Days Lost Rate
9.00 8.68
8.18
8.00
7.27
7.00 6.82
6.00
5.00
4.00
3.00
2.00
1.00
0.00
2001 2002 2003 2004
Injury
Illness
Notes to injury and illness charts – as box above.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 23Reportable Injury and Illness Without Lost Time
We also measure the number of reportable injuries and illnesses that did not
result in time away from work (lost days). These are work-related injuries and
illnesses that are more serious than first aid but generally less serious than
lost time.
In 2004 there were 430 injuries without lost time and 345 illnesses without lost
time. There was also an additional 9 cases of mental illness without lost time,
a rate of less than one per 100,000 hours worked.
Performance
Reportable Injury and Illness Without Lost Time Rate
0.800
0.713
0.700
0.634 0.635
0.600
0.500
0.397
0.400
0.300
0.200
0.100
0.000
2001 2002 2003 2004
Injury
Illness
Reportable Injury and Illness Without Lost Time Rate by Business
R&D
Biologicals
Consumer
2001
Healthcare
2002
New Product 2003
and Global Supply 2004
Regional
Pharma Supply
Primary Supply
and Antibiotics
Commercial
Other
0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5
(per 100,000 hours worked)
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 24Notes to injury and illness charts - as box above.
Contractors Working on GSK Sites (Not Directly Supervised by GSK
Employees)
Here we report health and safety data for construction contractors or contract
companies (eg those providing catering and landscaping services) who work
on GSK sites but supervise and direct their own staff. The data for contract
workers who are directly supervised by GSK employees are included in the
data for GSK employees.
In 2004 there were 83 lost time injuries and illnesses (a rate of 0.40 per
100,000 hours worked). There were also 1,351 calendar days lost (a rate of
6.55 per 100,000 hours worked) and 412 reportable injuries and illnesses
without lost time (a rate of 2.00 per 100,000 hours worked). This data is not
included in the verification by ERM.
These rates are higher than those for GSK employees. Contract companies
are responsible for supervising their own employees and also for providing
them with safety training.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 25Health and Safety 2.5.3
Causes of Injuries and Illnesses
Lost Time Injuries and Illnesses
Slips/trips/falls, motor vehicle accidents and over-exertions/strains were the
main causes of injuries resulting in lost time.
Mental illness, musculoskeletal illness (primarily repetitive strain injury) and
infections were the main causes of illnesses resulting in lost time. There were
two outbreaks of infection (caused by food poisoning at onsite catered
events), resulting in 22 cases of food borne illnesses that resulted in lost time.
The causes of lost calendar days were very similar.
Performance
Categories of Lost Time Injury Categories of Lost Time Ilness
Contact
With
Sharps 3.5% Other 2.9%
Thermal/
Chemical 4.0%
Caught In/ Slips/Trips/
On/Between 6.9% Falls
27.7%
Striking Against/
Struck 12.7%
Motor
Vehicle
Overexertions/ Accidents
Strains 20.4% 21.8%
Notes to injury and illness charts - as box above.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 26Reportable Injuries and Illnesses Without Lost Time
Overexertions/strains, slips/trips/falls and contact with sharps were the main
causes of reportable injuries without lost time.
Musculoskeletal illness was the main type of reportable illness without lost
time, accounting for 31% of the total. This is followed by infection at 19%
Performance
Categories of Reportable Categories of Lost Time
Injury Without Lost Time Ilness Without Lost Time
Animal
Other 3.3% Insect 3.3%
Thermal/
Chemical 5.3%
Overexertions/
Caught In/ Strains 26.7%
On/Between 7.7%
Striking Against/
Struck 10.0%
Motor
Slips/Trips/
Vehicle Falls
Accidents 19.8%
11.2% Contact
With
Sharps 12.8%
Notes to injury and illness charts – as box above.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 27Health and Safety 2.5.4
Serious Incidents and Fatalities
We deeply regret two work-related employee fatalities and one work-related
third party fatality during 2004.
In Egypt, a GSK sales representative fell into an elevator shaft while on a
business trip. In the United States, a GSK sales representative died in a traffic
accident. The third party fatality was in Brazil, where a visitor travelling in a
GSK car died in a traffic accident. We are working to reduce traffic accidents
through our driver safety programme. See safety programmes in the website.
Our health and safety data covers driving accidents that occur on business
travel. We only report data on commuting accidents if the vehicle is owned
and operated by GSK. However, we took very seriously a commuting accident
in Nigeria, where a truck collided with a bus (not owned or operated by GSK)
carrying GSK employees to work, leading to six employee fatalities.
We also report serious incidents ie incidents that result in permanent disability
(including amputations) or those that are reported to the regulatory authorities.
In 2004, accidents with machinery resulted in four employees (at sites in
Japan, Pakistan, India and the US) needing to have part of a finger
amputated. In addition, one employee (at a site in India) had to have a hand
amputated and one employee (in the US) needed surgery but suffered no
permanent disability. A Canadian employee suffered severe hand injuries
following a serious car crash.
We investigate the circumstances of all fatalities and other serious incidents
and assess what can be learned to avoid similar injuries again. We also issue
global alerts (posted on our intranet site) to communicate information that
could help prevent similar incidents at other sites.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 28Health and Safety 2.5.5
Health Programmes
At GSK, we recognise that good employee health contributes to good
business health.
Our Employee Health Policy – which sits alongside our EHS Policy – sets out
our overall commitment to protecting and promoting the health and well-being
of our employees. An Employee Health Management department supports
our sites in implementing the policy globally. In 2004 we held workshops in
India, Europe and the US for health practitioners to share information and
best practice. See more on Employee Health Management organisation in the
website.
In 2004, our internal audits identified a number of weaknesses in the way
sites manage key health risks, including chemical agents, ergonomics, and
resilience and mental well-being. We have responded by developing new
strategies on chemical exposure, ergonomics, and resilience and mental well-
being and by introducing a number of new management tools and resources.
In 2005, we plan to set up a new employee health “scorecard” to measure and
monitor the effectiveness of programmes and processes to promote the
health and productivity of our employees.
Our aim is to improve GSK’s business performance through enhancing the
health and resilience of its people. Here are some of the key health
achievements in 2004:
Resilience and Mental Well-being
There were 39 cases of mental illness (with and without lost time) at GSK in
2004 – a significant reduction from 79 in 2003. There was also a
corresponding decrease in the number of days lost from work-related mental
illness from 2,956 in 2003 to 1,513 in 2004.
Mental illness was the leading cause of work-related sickness absence,
accounting for 33% of all work-related lost time illnesses. On average, each
GSK case of work-related mental illness resulted in 50 days off work,
significantly more than the average number of days lost from other causes of
occupational illness causing lost time.
We use the term ‘resilience’ to describe the set of skills and behaviours
needed to cope successfully with the pressures of a rapidly changing work
environment. We have strategies on resilience and mental well-being in the
UK and the US. In 2005 we plan to develop a group-wide strategy on these
issues.
During the year, a total of 150 teams in the UK used our Team Resilience
Toolkit – developed in 2003 – to identify and manage risks and measure
performance.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 29In many countries, including the UK and US, we continued to put in place
health and stress-reduction programmes that are relevant to local conditions,
cultures and workplace risks. Many of these are designed to reduce
workplace pressure and encourage a good work-life balance. Examples
include personal and team resilience, personal skills such as time
management, flexible working options, health awareness and education
initiatives, and healthy food choices at our on-site catering facilities. We also
provide fitness facilities either on-site or off-site at many of our sites. For
example, in the UK, we have a fitness centre at GSK House in Brentford, and
almost half (47%) of the employees who work there are members of it. In the
US, we have fitness facilities at nine sites and an average of 20% of our
employees have enrolled to use the facilities.
In 2004, our sites in Singapore and the UK received awards for initiatives to
promote resilience. Our manufacturing site in Jurong, Singapore, received a
Platinum Award from the Health Promotion Board of the Singapore Ministry of
Health for programmes which encourage staff to “work hard, play hard and
stay well.” A bronze award was also presented to our Quality Road site for
health programmes. In the UK, the GSK Resilience and Mental Well-being
strategy was recognised by the UK Health and Safety Executive as a Beacon
of Excellence and one of the best stress prevention strategies they have
seen.
See more on our approach to resilience and mental well-being in the website.
Ergonomics
In 2004, there were 28 cases of musculoskeletal illness (with lost time),
mainly due to repetitive strain injury. These accounted for 31% of work-related
lost time illnesses – the second most frequent category (after mental health).
There were also 106 overexertion/strain injuries with lost time accounting for
20% of lost time injuries. In addition, musculoskeletal illness not related to
work is the leading cause of sickness absence in the UK and one of the
highest categories of healthcare spend in the US.
In response to these challenges, GSK has developed an ergonomics strategy
up to 2010, and created and appointed a new position of a full-time
professional ergonomist. With this appointment at the end of 2004 we will
refine our strategy and programmes going forward.
Our approach to managing ergonomic issues is a collaborative one involving
Employee Health Management staff, safety professionals, engineers, line
managers and human resources functions.
In 2004, 106 sites carried out 3,243 office workstation risk assessments using
our on-line ergonomics risk assessment tool. This has now been translated
into French, Italian, Polish, Portuguese and Spanish and is available on our
intranet.
During the year, we also started work to develop a specific ergonomics risk
assessment and control tool for non-office based employees. This will be
piloted in the US before being extended globally.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 30A key part of our strategy for 2005 and beyond is to establish employee-led
ergonomic improvement teams at all GSK sites. In the UK, we now have such
teams at thirteen sites. In 2004, these sites achieved a 40% reduction in
musculoskeletal injuries and illnesses.
Over 80 examples of ergonomics best practice have been developed and
shared on our intranet. We also created a new area on our intranet for people
with ergonomics responsibilities to discuss issues, share ideas and access
resources.
In 2005, the GSK ergonomics guidance will be updated to reflect the growing
amount of knowledge and expertise in this field. We also plan to incorporate
ergonomic principles into our design tool kits for new equipment and
processes.
Our manufacturing site in Barnard Castle, UK, was awarded 1st place in the
safety category of our EHS Excellence Awards for its ergonomic
improvements. See case study in the website.
See more on our approach to ergonomics in the website.
Occupational Hygiene and Control of Chemical Exposure
In 2004, there were 9 cases of respiratory or dermal (skin) illness resulting in
lost time and 115 non lost time cases, mainly due to exposure to chemicals.
Together, they accounted for 28% of work-related illnesses.
In 2004, we developed a strategy on control of chemical exposure up to 2010.
This sets out a plan of action for achieving our 2010 goal of a ‘shirt sleeve’
working environment i.e. a workplace where containment of chemicals during
manufacture replaces the need for personal protective equipment.
During the year we surveyed all our sites to review the way they handle
chemicals and control exposure to the most potent compounds (those with an
exposure limit less than 100 micrograms per cubic metre. Note – a microgram
is one millionth of a gram). This has helped us to understand our current
position and set priorities for the future.
We have introduced new tools to help sites calculate the cost of different
options for controlling exposure to chemicals. This has resulted in a better
understanding of the true costs of control strategies and frequently
demonstrates that engineering controls, including containment systems, are
more cost effective than traditional control methods of extraction and personal
protective equipment. A number of our sites have achieved significant savings
by installing new containment systems. For example, in Parma, Italy, a new
containment system for a toxic compound for treating cancer led to savings of
£1.4 million. In Dungarvan, Ireland, a new enzyme containment solution led to
financial savings of £0.2 million.
To share best practice across our sites, we have made available on our
intranet site 43 engineering design kits for controlling chemical exposures
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 31(solutions already in existence that we know work) and 10 pre-engineered
solutions (new designs). We are also working to develop new technologies
that make it easier to contain highly potent compounds.
We continue to refine the way we assess the EHS hazards of materials and
integrate this into our research and development process. In 2004, our
experts established new occupational exposure limits for more than 40
materials and environmental limits based on scientific data for more than 300
materials.
A task force has been established in our antibiotic business to improve control
of chemical exposures during manufacture. We are also addressing the
challenging task of controlling exposure to the most hazardous category of
compounds during the manufacture of the final formulation of medicines that
go to patients.
As with research into new medicines, testing of material hazards may involve
animal experiments. GSK is committed to the principle of the ‘three Rs’ to
reduce, refine and replace animal experiments. See more on occupational
chemical hazard evaluation and animal testing in the website.
See more on our approach to Occupational hygiene and control of chemical
exposures in the website.
HIV/AIDs
In 2004, we continued to provide antiretroviral treatment (ARV) to all GSK
employees (full and part-time) and their families in the developing world where
treatment is not provided adequately or consistently by the local healthcare
system. See more on our approach to HIV in the website.
We also developed a number of awareness-raising initiatives. For example, in
2004, our factory in Nairobi, Kenya, worked with the National AIDS Trust in
the UK to develop HIV/AIDs educational materials. This was funded by our
Positive Action Programme in the website which provides support to
communities around the world affected by HIV/AIDs.
We also offer preferentially priced ARVs to other employers in Sub-Saharan
Africa who provide care and treatment for staff. See preferential pricing in the
website.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 32Health and Safety 2.5.6
Safety Programmes
We systematically assess risks to anticipate potential accidents, and put
programmes in place to minimise them. We also learn from investigating the
causes of accidents and make improvements accordingly. In 2004, we
introduced a number of new initiatives on driver safety and process safety.
Driver Safety
In 2004, there were 113 driving accidents (with lost time), which accounted for
22% of lost time injuries. Our sales representatives drive long distances every
year and are therefore particularly at risk of driving accidents.
Our Global EHS standard on Occupational Travel includes requirements on
driver safety. In 2004, we developed 11 technical instruction documents to
help GSK businesses comply with the standard. These cover a wide range of
topics including driver training, fitness to drive, vehicle selection, risk
assessment, insurance, accident reporting, driver ergonomics, and driving
and the environment. We monitor compliance with the standard through
internal audits and self assessment questionnaires.
GSK also produced a number of tools to help commercial fleet managers
improve driver safety. New driver safety programmes for sales
representatives were introduced in 18 countries (Belgium, Bosnia, Brazil,
Chile, Croatia, the Czech Republic, France, Germany, Hungary, Ireland, Italy,
Lithuania, Nigeria, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka and Switzerland).
More stringent requirements, such as additional training, were added to
existing programmes in a number of countries (Australia, Canada, Japan,
Poland and Romania and the US). In the UK, a comprehensive driver safety
programme was developed in 2004 ready for roll-out to the three GSK
commercial business units in January 2005. We will continue to expand
driver safety programmes throughout commercial operations in the next few
years.
In a few countries, we provide motorbikes or scooters for employees. In 2004,
a GSK Motorbike Rider Safety Manual was produced. This was distributed in
local languages to employees in countries where motorbikes are widely used,
including Bangladesh, India, Indonesia, Pakistan and Vietnam. These
countries have now also fully implemented the GSK requirement for every
driver of a motorbike to wear a helmet. We will continue to follow up and
monitor the implementation of the motorbike safety programme.
See more on our approach to driver safety in EHS Programmes in GSK
Commercial in the website.
Process Safety and Safety Engineering
Our process safety programme ensures that safety is built into our
manufacturing processes. A Process Hazard Analysis (PHA) must be
completed before any new project is carried out. In 2004, we launched a new
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 33Failure Mode and Effects Criticality Analysis (FMECA) system to help
engineers develop safer processes.
See more on our approach to process safety and safety engineering in the
website .
We have developed safety data sheets (SDSs) for more than 1,200 of our
products. Some of these are available on our website – see safety data
sheets. In 2004, we developed an email notification tool which automatically
keeps employees up-to-date with changes to SDSs. We also started to make
environmental testing data available on our SDSs.
In 2004, we also launched the HazClass System to help track hazardous
material shipments worldwide and ensure the safe transportation of over
10,000 materials per month. See more on safe transport of materials in the
website.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 34Health and Safety 2.5.7
Suppliers
Our supply chain is complex. It ranges from major strategic relationships with
contract manufacturers that make final medicines for us to suppliers of key
materials.
EHS Audits
We conduct regular EHS audits of our key suppliers to check they comply with
our EHS standards and key legislation. In 2004, we carried out 35 site-based
EHS audits of existing and potential suppliers. We found a wide variation in
performance across the sites audited. The lowest score was 22% and the
highest was 92%. We make recommendations to sites following the audits
and have a process to monitor progress, with a particular focus on poorly
performing sites.
In 2004, three potential key suppliers achieved unacceptable EHS scores
(less than 30%) and therefore we did not source from them. No existing
supplier scored below 30%.
We found that health and safety was generally well managed at supplier sites
in Europe and North America. However, we identified some challenges in
emerging economies, especially in areas relating to fire prevention and
response, occupational hygiene and control of chemical exposure,
identification of hazards and risks, and systems for reporting and investigating
incidents. See suppliers and contractors (in the environmental section of this
website) for more about our EHS audits.
Supplier Performance
We have approximately 80 centrally managed key suppliers, which include
both contract manufacturers and suppliers of materials.
We are working towards reporting the health and safety performance of our
contract manufacturers. This is a more difficult process than collecting data
from our own sites because contract manufacturers are independently
managed.
In 2004 we collected health and safety data from 13 major contract
manufacturers. This data is not included in the verification by ERM.
Employees at the 13 contract manufacturers who reported health and safety
data worked a total of 12.8 million hours on manufacturing GSK products in
2004.
Lost time injury and illness:
There were 65 lost time injuries and 16 lost time illnesses corresponding to a
combined rate of 0.64 per 100,000 hours worked.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 35Injury and illness without lost time:
There were 121 injuries without lost time and 22 illnesses without lost time
corresponding to a combined rate of 1.11 per 100,000 hours worked.
Calendar days lost from injury and illness:
There were 1,540 lost days from injuries and 84 lost days from illnesses
corresponding to a combined rate of 12.71 per 100,000 hours worked.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 36HUMAN RIGHTS
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 373. Human Rights
3.1 Employees 3.2 Suppliers
Human Rights 3
Human Rights
Corporate responsibility principle
We are committed to upholding the UN Universal Declaration of Human
Rights, the OECD guidelines for MNEs and the core labour standards set
out by the International Labour Organisation. We expect the same
standards of our suppliers, contractors and business partners working on
GSK’s behalf.
Human rights is a broad subject that is relevant to GSK in a number of different
contexts. In this section we discuss human rights for GSK employees and human
rights issues in our supply chain.
Our direct employees are generally highly educated and skilled people for
whom we are striving to make our company an attractive employer. Generally
our employment standards on issues such as diversity and equal
opportunities provide adequate safeguards on human rights.
Our supply chain is complex, diverse and global. We recognise it is possible
that our suppliers in some countries do not fully respect the human rights of
their workers or those in their community. Within our sphere of influence, we
have begun work to ensure that our suppliers observe similar standards to
ours in their relations with employees and communities.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 38Human rights 3.1
Employees
The human rights of our employees at work are fully protected by our
employment policies and procedures. For more details see Employment
Practices in the website.
We operate globally, including in countries where the government does not
fully respect human rights. We believe our presence in these countries is vital
to ensure continued access to medicines for their people. We aim to create a
working environment for our employees where the standards match those in
our operations elsewhere.
To ensure we are delivering our commitment to international human rights
standards in employment, we conduct an annual global audit. This involves
asking the head of Human Resources for each country where we operate to
report on whether GSK employment practices meet these standards.
Following the 2004 audit we have not identified any significant human rights
issues for our workforce.
We can confirm that GSK does not employ children or anyone younger than
16. All our employees are entitled to join trade unions and to organise, in
countries where this is permitted by national legislation. We are committed to
listening and responding to the views of our employees, including through
works councils and staff consultation committees.
Discrimination and harassment are not tolerated under any circumstances.
Employees can report any concerns to senior management on a confidential
basis, using our global integrity helpline. During 2004 there were no cases
reported by employees to our compliance function that directly raised human
rights issues.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 39Human rights 3.2
Suppliers
Our supply chain is complex. It includes high-spend, strategic relationships
with suppliers that manufacture medicines for us or supply ingredients to
multiple GSK manufacturing plants. It also includes relatively low spend
contracts for locally-sourced goods or services such as cleaning products,
rubber gloves or laundry services.
Given the size, diversity and global scope of our supply chain we recognise it
is possible that suppliers in some countries do not fully respect the human
rights of their workers or those in their community. Within our sphere of
influence, we have begun work to ensure that our suppliers observe similar
standards to ours in their relations with employees and communities.
The first step is to incorporate clauses in our supplier contracts that seek
assurances from our suppliers about their commitment to human rights. This
includes compliance with minimum wage legislation; provision of a healthy,
safe work place free from discrimination; the right of employees to join an
independent trade union; and opposition to all forms of slavery and
exploitative child labour.
During 2004 we continued the process (begun in 2003) to include human
rights clauses in our central contract templates for use with new suppliers.
During 2005 we will be working with local procurement managers to ensure
they incorporate appropriate clauses into local contracts. Human rights
clauses are also being introduced into contracts for existing suppliers as they
are renewed.
Where appropriate, taking into account the varying risk of human rights
abuses in different regions, major existing suppliers have been asked to
confirm in writing that they comply with GSK’s human rights clauses. We
began this process in 2003 by contacting over 400 suppliers and in 2004 we
contacted over 650 more suppliers.
The second step is to audit and monitor suppliers. We already conduct regular
Environment Health and Safety audits of our contract manufacturers (see
Suppliers and Contractors). In 2003 these audits were extended to
incorporate criteria and questions on human rights. There were 35 audits
conducted during 2004 and no human rights issues were noted. For other
major suppliers, compliance is assessed during regular supplier review
meetings conducted by GSK’s procurement professionals.
A guidance document ‘Supplier Compliance with GSK Human Rights
Requirements’ has been developed for employees working in procurement. It
explains our standard contract clauses on human rights, the importance of
supplier compliance with these standards, how to monitor human rights issues
during EHS audits and supplier reviews and how to deal with instances of
non-compliance. This is part of our Sourcing Group Management process
which provides a training and best practice programme for GSK procurement
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 40professionals. Human rights requirements are included in the criteria used by
procurement for selecting new suppliers.
If a supplier is found not to have met our standards we will work with them to
agree improvement plans and achieve compliance. We think this is better
than walking away from the problem. However, we will terminate a contract if
a supplier will not or cannot work towards compliance.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 41ACCESS TO MEDICINES
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 424. Access to
Medicines
4.1 Developing 4.2 Developed
World World
4.1.1 Research & 4.1.2 Preferential 4.1.3 Voluntary
Development Pricing Licensing and
Partnerships
4.1.2.1 Eligibility
for Noit-For-Profit
Pricing
Access 4
Access to Medicines
Corporate responsibility principle
We will continue to research and develop medicines to treat diseases of the
developing world. We will find sustainable ways to improve access to
medicines for disadvantaged people, and will seek partnerships to support
this activity.
Access to healthcare is a significant challenge in many parts of the world.
Millions of poor people in both developed and developing countries cannot
obtain the medicines they need.
This section describes how GSK is helping to improve access, and our
progress in 2004. It covers our:
• contribution to the developing world through research, not-for-profit
pricing, partnerships and voluntary licences
• preferential pricing arrangements and discount cards for middle-income
countries
• Patient Assistance Programs and discount cards to help uninsured
patients in the US
We also support under-served communities worldwide through donations,
funding and practical support, see Community Investment in the website.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 43Case study
Improving Access to Medicine in Lithuania
GSK’s new Orange Card in Lithuania is giving all senior citizens better access
to the medicines they need.
Patients in Lithuania must contribute towards the cost of prescription
medicines. Many senior citizens don’t get the treatment they need because
they cannot afford to pay this cost and do not have private medical insurance
to cover the expense. Doctors are aware of this and may sometimes prescribe
based on the patient’s ability to pay rather than the best option available. In
general, the access to innovative treatment is very limited in Lithuania. The
standard of living of seniors is relatively poor and healthcare financing is one
of the lowest in the EU. All of these causes encouraged GSK Lithuania to
implement the Orange Card scheme launched successfully in the US.
The Orange Card helps to tackle this problem by giving all senior citizens a
discount of up to 100% of the patient’s contribution on all GSK prescription
medicines. Patients can apply by completing a simple form and if eligible they
will receive their Orange Card by post.
The card was launched in July 2004 through a national advertising campaign
and promotional material sent to pensioner organisations, doctors and
pharmacies. By February 2005 more than 3,500 patients had applied for an
Orange Card and 107 pharmacies had registered to participate.
Our target is for 18,000 patients and 125 pharmacies to have joined the
programme by July 2005.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 44Access 4.1
Developing World
There is a healthcare crisis in many parts of the developing world. Millions of
people do not have access to adequate food and clean water. Their
governments do not have the resources to fund the clinics and staff needed to
deliver healthcare. The AIDS pandemic has made these problems worse,
creating a generation of orphans and depriving communities of their greatest
asset – fit and healthy people.
Tackling this crisis is a complex challenge. Poverty is the fundamental cause
and a huge barrier to progress. Significant political will and extra funding are
needed from new national and international sources to aid development and
build healthcare infrastructure.
We believe that it is the responsibility of governments and intergovernmental
agencies, supplemented by the work of many NGOs, to work in partnership to
deliver the healthcare needed in these countries. However, the
pharmaceutical industry can play a significant role in supporting their work.
We make an important contribution through:
- Investing in research and development that targets diseases
disproportionately affecting developing countries
- Providing antiretrovirals (ARVs), anti-malarials and vaccines at
specially reduced prices
- Developing partnerships and granting voluntary licences to local
manufacturers.
We also support programmes to improve health and education through our
community investment programme. Partnerships focus on four major diseases
-- lymphatic filariasis, malaria, HIV/AIDS and diarrhoeal disease. Support is
given through donations of cash and medicines, as well as employee
involvement. See Community Investment in the website.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 45Access 4.1.1
Research and Development
To learn more about R&D for the developing world visit our website
The research and development (R&D) of new drugs is essential to improve
health in the developing world. There are still no effective treatments for some
widespread and life-threatening diseases. Many existing treatments for
diseases such as malaria are becoming less effective due to drug resistance.
Many of these diseases disproportionately affect developing countries. This
means there is often no viable commercial market for new treatments. New
ways are required to encourage R&D and to ensure that new medicines and
vaccines reach the people who need them. One solution is the Public Private
Partnership (PPP) model. This encourages R&D and can often accelerate the
product’s uptake in the developing world on a scale that cannot be achieved
by a company on its own.
PPPs involve companies and the public sector (eg governments, the WHO
and other UN bodies, academia, and philanthropic foundations) working
together. They are helping to address this lack of effective markets.
Companies provide technology, development, manufacturing and distribution
expertise. Public sector partners help fund R&D and delivery costs, ensuring
that new medicines and vaccines get to the people who need them. GSK is a
partner in several PPPs including the Medicines for Malaria Venture (MMV),
Global Alliance for TB and the Malaria Vaccine Initiative (MVI). PPPs such as
these are transforming the landscape of R&D into diseases of the developing
world.
GSK has created a dedicated group in our pharmaceutical R&D organisation,
based in Spain, the UK and the US, to focus on diseases disproportionately
affecting developing countries. Projects are prioritised according to their social
and public health benefits rather than their commercial returns. A similar
group exists in our vaccines organisation based in Belgium.
We believe GSK is currently the only company researching both new vaccines
and treatments for HIV/AIDS, TB and malaria – the World Health
Organisation’s three priority diseases.
HIV/AIDS affects both developed and developing countries. This means there
is a commercial market for new treatments, which encourages investment in
the required R&D. GSK is the industry leader in research into HIV/AIDS
treatment, and currently has three major clinical development programmes in
progress, each with a different mode of action.
In total GSK has 14 clinical programmes for medicines and vaccines against 9
diseases1 particularly relevant to the developing world. Seven of these
projects are for diseases that disproportionately affect developing countries.
1 HIV/AIDS, malaria, leishmaniasis, dengue fever, TB, hepatitis E, N. meningitis, cervical cancer and
pneumonia
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 46Development Pipeline at end at end of 2004 for diseases relevantto the developing world*
PPrree-- PPHHAASSEE ll PPHHAASSEE llll PPHHAASSEE llllll MMAARRKKEETTEEDD
FFooccuuss cclliinniiccaall
aaccttiivviittyy
HHIIVV (cid:68)(cid:68) CCCCRR55 aannttaaggoonniisstt RReettrroovviirr,, EEppiivviirr,, CCoommbbiivviirr,, ZZiiaaggeenn,, TTrriizziivviirr,,
NNNNRRTTII AAggeenneerraassee,, EEppzziiccoomm//KKiivveexxaa,, LLeexxiivvaa//TTeellzziirr
PPrrootteeaassee IInnhhiibbiittoorr
VVaacccciinneess (cid:68)(cid:68) HHIIVV NN.. mmeenniinnggiittiiddiiss SSttrreeppttoorriixx((SS.. RRoottaarriixx––((RRoottaavviirruuss))
TTBB MMaallaarriiaa ppnneeuummoonniiaaee HHaavvrriixx--((HHeeppaattiittiiss AA))
DDeenngguuee ffeevveerr HHeeppaattiittiiss EE ppaaeeddiiaattrriicc)) EEnnggeerriixx--BB--((HHeeppaattiittiiss BB))
CCeerrvvaarriixx((cceerrvviiccaall TTwwiinnrriixx--((HHeeppAA&&BB))
ccaanncceerr)) IInnffaannrriixx--((DDiipptthheerriiaa,, TTeettaannuuss,, aacceelllluullaarr
PPeerrttuussssiiss))
TTrriittaannrriixx--((DDiipptthheerriiaa,, TTeettaannuuss,, wwhhoolleeccaallll
PPeerrttuussssiiss))
PPoolliioo SSaabbiinn--((PPoolliioo))
PPrriioorriixx--((MMeeaasslleess,, MMuummppss aanndd RRuubbeellllaa))
TTyypphheerriixx--((TTyypphhooiidd))
HHiibbeerriixx--((HHaaeemmoopphhiilluussiinnfflluueennzzaaeettyyppee bb))
MMeenncceevvaaxxAACCWW((mmeenniinnggiittiiss))
MMaallaarriiaa (cid:68)(cid:68) ppyyrriiddoonnee**** CCDDAA ttaaffeennooqquuiinnee LLaappddaapp,, HHaallffaann,, MMaallaarroonnee
((cchhlloorrpprroogguuaanniill,,
ddaappssoonnee++
aarrtteessuunnaattee))
TTBB (cid:68)(cid:68)
OOtthheerr (cid:68)(cid:68) ssiittaammaaqquuiinnee ZZeenntteell((ddee--wwoorrmmiinngg aaggeenntt))
((vviisscceerraall PPeennttoossttaamm((vviisscceerraall lleeiisshhmmaanniiaassiiss))
lleeiisshhmmaanniiaassiiss))
* more detailed information on our product pipeline can be foundin the Annual Report [link]
**the pyridoneproject should enter phase 1 in 2005
Progress in 2004
Malaria
• Phase IIb clinical trials of our malaria vaccine for children showed
unprecedented results. Data from the trials, conducted with the Malaria
Vaccine Initiative (MVI), showed the vaccine protected a significant
percentage of children against uncomplicated malaria, malaria infection
and even severe forms of the disease for at least six months. Dr Melinda
Moree, Director of MVI, commented that “The findings represent a
breakthrough in the science of malaria vaccines”.
• GSK is working with the Medicines for Malaria Venture (MMV), the World
Health Organisation (WHO) and academic partners to develop an
affordable fixed-dose artemisinin combination treatment for malaria in
Africa, based on GSK’s Lapdap.
• We received the MMV’s Project of the Year award for our Pyridone Project,
investigating a new class of compounds for use against malaria. The
project was chosen by the MMV’s Expert Scientific Advisory Committee - a
group of 12 experts in malaria and drug development - for its rapid success
in identifying a drug candidate. We have since signed an agreement with
the MMV to take a lead compound into clinical development.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 47HIV/AIDS
• We have also made progress on R&D into HIV/AIDS. Epzicom/Kivexa, a
new fixed dose combination of Epivir and Ziagen, was approved in the US
and Europe. This new once-a-day combination tablet will help to simplify
treatment regimens for patients. We plan to register it across the
developing world in 2005 once it has received a European Certificate of
Pharmaceutical Product. Telzir, a new protease inhibitor, was approved in
Europe in 2004 and is being registered in the developing world, where it will
provide yet another treatment option.
• In September we signed a material transfer agreement with the
International Partnership for Microbicides (IPM). Under the agreement,
GSK’s HIV drug candidates will be tested for use in microbicides to prevent
transmission of HIV and help women reduce their vulnerability to HIV
infection during sexual intercourse.
• Phase II clinical trials of our CCR5 antagonist, a new class of AIDS
therapy, produced positive data. The therapy will now be tested in further
clinical studies. If trials are successful the therapy may benefit people living
with HIV who have developed viral resistance to existing HIV treatments.
• Proof of concept trials and drug interaction studies are underway for two
additional HIV/AIDS compounds, a protease inhibitor (PI) and non-
nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI), and results are
expected to be reported in 2005.
• GSK is supporting clinical trials that are sponsored by external
organisations - such as the WHO, the UK’s Medical Research Council and
US National Institutes of Health (NIH) - through our HIV-collaborative
research programme for resource-poor settings. Twenty trials are currently
underway mainly focussing on public health-related issues and involving
more than 13,000 patients in the developing world.
• Phase l clinical trials on our most advanced HIV vaccine candidate
continued in 2004 with no major milestones to report.
TB
• GSK and Corixa, a US pharmaceutical company, began phase I clinical
trials of a new vaccine for tuberculosis in 2004. This is the first study of this
vaccine candidate to be conducted in humans.
• During 2004 GSK continued to screen compounds for possible use as new
classes of anti-TB drugs against enzymatic targets of Mycobacterium
tuberculosis and M. tuberculosis whole cells. Should our search be
successful the leads identified from screening will be progressed to
candidates for development.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 48Rotavirus
• Our rotavirus vaccine, Rotarix, for the prevention of gastroenteritis, was
launched in Mexico in January 2005. Rotavirus infection is the leading
cause of severe diarrhoea and vomiting (gastroenteritis) in children under
two and kills around 600,000 children each year - one child every minute -
mostly in developing countries. Rotarix was tested in the largest phase III
clinical trial ever performed for a vaccine, involving over 60,000 children.
We are now seeking regulatory approval for the vaccine in other developing
countries.
Cervical Cancer
• Clinical trials of our cervical cancer vaccine, Cervarix, produced positive
results. Cervical cancer is the number one cause of cancer deaths in
women in the developing world. Current studies suggest Cervarix could
reduce by 70% a woman's lifetime risk of developing cervical cancer. We
hope to launch the vaccine in Europe and our International region during
2007.
Leishmaniasis
• GSK is developing sitamaquine, a new oral treatment for visceral
leishmaniasis which affects at least half a million people a year in the
developing world and is usually fatal if untreated. A new treatment for
leishmaniasis is urgently needed since current medicines are either
impractical or becoming ineffective due to drug resistance. Sitamaquine
has shown good efficacy in phase II studies and clinical development is
ongoing.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 49Access 4.1.2
Preferential Pricing
To learn more about preferential pricing visit our website
There are many barriers to healthcare in developing countries. Most
significantly, poverty, and a lack of political will, have led to a lack of medical
infrastructure – hospitals, clinics and medical professionals – that prevents
poor people accessing the healthcare they need.
The affordability of medicines is also important and there are two elements to
this. First is the ability of governments or patients to pay for medicines.
Solving this problem will require developed country governments and inter-
governmental agencies to make significant additional financial resources
available to developing countries.
The second element is the price at which medicines are sold, an area GSK
can help to address. We are making key medicines available to developing
countries at more affordable prices and in sufficient quantities for as long as
they are required. This is a major commitment that we call ‘preferential
pricing’.
All our AIDS and malaria treatments are available at not-for-profit prices to
public sector customers and not-for-profit organisations in over 100
developing countries, including all the countries covered by the US
President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR).[Link to eligibility
criteria and How to Guide] Our prices are sustainable – we do not make a
profit on them, but we do cover our manufacturing and distribution costs.
Therefore we can sustain supply of these products for as long as they are
needed.
We aim to reduce not-for-profit prices for our ARVs and anti-malarial
medicines whenever improvements in manufacturing, or economies of scale,
allow. For example, Combivir, one of our key ARVs, is now available at $0.65
a day, compared with $1.70 in April 2003. This equates to around $237 per
patient per year and includes delivery costs, which compares favourably with
generic tablets. The February 2005 pricing report by Medecins Sans
Frontieres shows that the average cost of generic equivalents is $0.75 a day
and the lowest priced generic equivalent costs $0.55 a day.
In addition, we negotiate public sector prices with middle-income developing
countries on a case-by-case basis. These combine a viable and sustainable
commercial return for GSK with increased affordability for the healthcare
systems concerned.
GSK vaccines are also available at preferential prices. Here we work with
multinational organisations such as UNICEF, the World Health Organisation
and the Pan American Health Organisation, governments and non-
governmental organisations, to provide appropriate and affordable vaccines
for the developing world.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 50Progress in 2004
•
In 2004 we shipped 32.7million preferentially-priced Combivir tablets to the
developing world, with over 80% of these going to Africa. This is nearly
three times the 11 million tablets shipped in 2003. We do not routinely
collect data for our other preferentially-priced medicines but a similar
increase has been experienced for Epivir, another of our ARVs. Overall
shipments are still low given the scale of the AIDS epidemic in Africa but
the growth is encouraging. More doctors, hospitals and clinics are needed
to treat more patients and ensure better take up of preferentially priced
medicines.
Shipments of preferentially priced Combivir
excluding diverted stock
35
30
25
20
15
10
5
0
Y2001 Y2002 Y2003 Y2004
• It is difficult to estimate the number of patients treated as a result of our
preferential pricing agreements, since GSK does not control healthcare
provision. A report from the UN-led Accelerating Access Initiative (AAI),
suggests that by September 2004 more than 333,000 patients in
developing countries were receiving ARV treatments supplied by the seven
pharmaceutical companies in the AAI. This includes 157,500 patients in
Africa, a 50% increase since September 2003. For more on GSK’s work
with the AAI see Accelerating Access Initiative in the website.
• At the end of 2004 we had 208 arrangements to supply preferentially-priced
ARVs in 57 countries. This includes 30 agreements with private employers.
• We added new supply agreements with a number of middle-income
countries during 2004. These include an agreement with the Chinese
Ministry of Health for preferentially priced Epivir tablets to support China’s
national HIV treatment programme, and a number of arrangements in
Central and Eastern Europe.
• We are also introducing discount cards for senior citizens in several middle-
income countries, see Developed Countries in this report.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 51Supply Arrangements by Type of Customer
250
Employers
Public Hospitals
NGOs
200
Govt Non AAI
AAI
150
100
50
0
Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
2000 2001 2002 2003 2004
• Product diversion, where not-for-profit medicines are illegally shipped back
for sale in wealthier countries, undermines our ability to provide not-for-
profit prices and denies treatment to the intended patients in poorer
countries. We can only afford to supply products at low prices in the world’s
poorest countries if we can still make an adequate return on them in
wealthier markets. We have introduced different packaging and tablet
colours for many of our not-for-profit medicines to help prevent product
diversion. Special tri-lingual ‘access packs’ are now approved for Combivir,
Epivir and Trizivir in over 50 countries, and we are now receiving regulatory
approvals for the red Epivir and Combivir tablets. GSK has nine ARVs
registered under the EU’s Anti-Diversion Regulation. We are the only
company to have registered products under this Regulation.
• We have set up five pilot projects in collaboration with NGOs in Tanzania,
Uganda, Nigeria, Zambia and Malawi to assess the impact of extending
preferential pricing to a wider range of products. Initial results show that
lack of healthcare capacity and infrastructure are major barriers. When
capacity (for example the number of healthcare professionals) or funding is
improved there is an increase in take up of preferentially-priced medicines.
For example two of the pilot sites have received funding from the US
President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief for the treatment of
opportunistic infections. This has led to an increase in orders for antibiotics.
A report on the findings from the pilots will be prepared at the end of 2005.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 52Access 4.1.2.1
Eligibility for Not-for-Profit Prices
Our not-for-profit prices are available in over 100 countries. This includes all
the Least Developed Countries (LDCs) and all of sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) –
a total of 64 countries. In addition, all private employers in sub-Saharan Africa
who provide care and treatment to their uninsured staff can purchase our
ARVs at not-for-profit prices. The not-for-profit prices are also offered to all
projects fully funded by the Global Fund and the 15 countries covered by the
US President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR).
We offer these prices where we believe the need is greatest. This is to
governments, NGOs and agencies that are providing treatment on a not-for-
profit basis in the poorest and worst affected countries. We also seek not-for-
profit arrangements with individual countries to facilitate access for core public
employees such as teachers, nurses, police and fire-fighters who are not
covered by private health insurance schemes.
We negotiate prices with the private health sector on a case-by-case basis.
We depend on revenues from sales to the private market to maintain a local
presence and much-needed infrastructure in developing countries. Without
this local capacity we would be unable to provide essential services such as
training healthcare workers to use our products, product support, safety
monitoring and registration and launch of new products.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 53Access 4.1.3
Voluntary Licensing and Partnerships
Learn more about voluntary licensing in the website
Learn more about partnerships in the website
We want to play an active role in addressing the healthcare crisis in
developing countries. We believe preferential pricing arrangements are the
best way to do this because we are able to ensure delivery of a safe, quality
product at an affordable price for as long as it is needed. This is where we
focus our efforts. But in some situations partnerships and voluntary licences
may also help to increase the supply of medicines.
Voluntary Licences
Voluntary licences (VL) enable local manufacturers to produce and sell
generic versions of our products. GSK has granted six VLs for our
antiretrovirals (ARVs) in Africa where HIV/AIDS is having a devastating
impact. This is a creative response to a unique situation.
A decision to grant a VL depends on a number of factors including the
severity of the HIV/AIDS epidemic in that country, local healthcare provision
and the economic and manufacturing environment. VLs are not a universal
solution to HIV/AIDS but a specific response to a particular set of
circumstances.
We discuss VLs with potential partners on a case-by-case basis. Selecting the
most appropriate licensees is key. We need to be sure that the manufacturer
will be able to provide a long-term supply of good-quality medicines and will
implement safeguards to prevent the diversion of medicines to wealthier
markets. (See Preferential Pricing in the website).
We do not seek to prevent voluntary licence holders from combining the
active ingredients they have licensed from us with other licensed active
ingredients to produce Fixed Dose Combinations. They can also use the US
Food and Drug Administration’s fast track approval process for ARVs to
accelerate the availability of generic ARVs for PEPFAR programmes in Africa.
There has been much discussion about the use of compulsory licences, under
which intellectual property rights are taken away from rights holders.
Compulsory licenses are one of the flexibilities in the World Trade
Organisation’s TRIPs agreement on intellectual property, which can be used
for humanitarian purposes. However, widespread use of compulsory licences
will undermine the intellectual property framework and be counter-productive
in the long term. R&D into new treatments, especially where commercial
markets exist, such as for HIV/AIDS, depends on protection for intellectual
property.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 54Progress in 2004
• GSK granted five VLs in 2004, four in South Africa and one in Kenya.
• We have now granted a total of five VLs to South African generics
companies for the sale of some of our antiretrovirals2 to public and private
sector customers in South Africa. Three of these VLs also include rights to
sell in other countries in sub-Saharan Africa.
• In 2004 we granted a similar VL to Cosmos, a Kenyan pharmaceutical
company, for manufacture and sale in Kenya and other countries in East
Africa.
Partnerships
HIV treatment is complex, often requiring patients to take a combination of
different tablets at different times of the day. This increases the risk of patients
missing a dose or taking their medicine at the wrong time, which can reduce
the effectiveness of treatment.
In July 2004, GSK and Boehringer Ingelheim (BI) agreed to assess the
development of co-packaging for Combivir and Viramune (BI’s HIV treatment
sometimes used in conjunction with GSK ARVs) for use in developing
countries. Given the complexities of HIV treatment, we recognise the need for
multiple treatment options and support efforts to simplify treatment regimens.
Aspen Pharmacare is developing the combined pack through the voluntary
licences granted by both GSK and BI.
2 lamivudine, zidovudine, and the combination containing lamivudine and zidovudine.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 55Access 4.2
Developed World
Learn more about Patient Assistance Programs in the website
Access to medicines is not just an issue for the developing world. Even in
developed countries some patients cannot afford the medicines they need.
This is a particular problem in the US where many people do not have health
insurance. GSK has developed Patient Assistance Programs and discount
cards in the US to help patients without insurance.
We are also introducing discount cards in several middle-income countries to
enable qualifying patients to obtain prescription medicines at a discount price
Programmes in the US
Patient Assistance Programs provide prescription medicines to low-income,
uninsured patients free or at minimal cost. GSK operates two Patient
Assistance Programs. Commitment to Access covers cancer treatments;
Bridges to Access covers other medicines for outpatients. Patients are
registered through one phone call from a patient advocate and receive
medicine at their local pharmacy or by mail order. In 2004, 475,000 patients
received GSK medicines worth $372.5 million through these programs (based
on the wholesale acquisition cost (WAC) of these medicines).
GSK was the first pharmaceutical company in the US to offer a card providing
savings on medicines to low-income senior citizens and disabled people.
Known as the Orange Card this enables these people to buy GSK outpatient
prescription medicines at a discount. Introduced in 2001, the Orange Card
provides savings of up to 40%. In 2004, 37,319 patients, received 73,740
prescriptions. This resulted in WAC savings of $2.9 million for patients.
In 2002, GSK and six other pharmaceutical companies established the
Together Rx card which provides discounts on over 155 prescription
medicines for low-income senior citizens who are eligible for Medicare. In
2004, over 190,000 patients received 683,364 GSK medicines through this
programme, saving $12.3 million (based on WAC).
In January 2005, GSK and nine other pharmaceutical companies created a
new card to improve access to medicines for other uninsured Americans, not
just seniors. The Together Rx Access card provides savings of 25-40% on
more than 275 medicines. Approximately 36 million people, around 80% of
uninsured people in the US, are eligible to enrol.
We also offer discounts on our prescription medicines through cards launched
by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, a US government agency,
in 2004.
Orange Cards in Middle Income Countries
During 2004 we introduced Orange Cards providing discounts on certain GSK
prescription medicines for eligible patients in Bulgaria, Lithuania, and Ukraine.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 56The nature of the discounts varies between countries, depending on the
needs of the patient and the way in which the healthcare system operates.
Our Orange Card in the Ukraine gives all asthma and chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease patients who are under 25 or over 50, an average discount
of 19% on GSK’s Seretide asthma medicine. Asthma patients of any age who
suffer disabilities or who are affected by the Chernobyl nuclear disaster are
also eligible. Eligibility is assessed by the patient’s doctor and patients can
receive the medicine at participating pharmacies. A hotline number has been
set up to help patients find their nearest pharmacy, and so far 1,100 patients
are enrolled.
In Lithuania, patients must pay towards the costs of their medicines. This is
known as patient co-payment. Our Orange Card gives senior citizens an
average discount of 40% on the patient co-payment on all GSK prescription
medicines. By February 2005 more than 3,500 patients had applied for an
Orange Card and 107 pharmacies had registered to participate. (see
Improving Access to Medicine in Lithuania case study)
A GSK Orange Card was also introduced in Bulgaria in May 2004 for low-
income patients with chronic diseases such as asthma, chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease and diabetes. Card holders receive an average 35%
discount on four GSK prescription medicines, and over 16,000 patients have
registered so far.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 57Summary of GSK Discount Programmes
Country Number of Value of
GSK programme patients benefit to
patients
US Patient Assistance 475,000 $372.5 million
Programmes - Free or minimal received
cost medicines for low-income, prescriptions
uninsured patients.
US Orange Card - Discounts for low 37,000 $2.9 million
income senior citizens and received
disabled people. prescriptions
US Together Rx - Discounts for low 190,000 $12.3 million
income senior citizens. Joint received
industry programme. prescriptions
US Together Rx Access - N/a Launched in
Discounts for all low-income 2004
uninsured patients. Joint industry
programme.
Bulgaria Orange Card - Discounts for 16,000 Launched in
low-income patients with chronic enrolled 2004
diseases.
Lithuania Orange Card -Discounts for 3,500 Launched in
senior citizens. enrolled 2004
Ukraine Orange Card - Discounts on 1,100 Launched in
asthma medicine for patients enrolled 2004
under 25 or over 50.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 58LEADERSHIP & ADVOCACY
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 595. Leadership
and Advocacy
5.3 GSK’s Unique 5.4 Science 5.5 Importation of
5.1 HIV/AIDS - 5.2 Patient Business Model for Policy Conferences Medicines
Vaccines
Accelerating Advocacy
Access Initiative
Leadership 5
Leadership and Advocacy
Corporate responsibility principle
We will establish our own challenging standards in corporate responsibility,
appropriate to the complexities and specific needs of our business,
building on external guidelines and experience. We will share best practice
and seek to influence others, while remaining competitive in order to
sustain our business.
As a multi-national company we can use our influence and resources to
address social issues and bring people together around a common cause. In
some areas we can take a lead. For other issues, coordinated and sustained
action by a group of stakeholders is required.
GSK participates in and leads several such partnerships. This section
highlights five examples and gives a flavour of the wide range of projects we
contribute to.
Further examples are featured throughout this report and the Corporate
Responsibility section of this website and in our Media Room.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 60Leadership and advocacy 5.1
HIV/AIDS – Accelerating Access Initiative
GSK is a founder member of the Accelerating Access Initiative (AAI) formed in
May 2000 as a Public Private Partnership between seven R&D based
companies and five UN organisations (UNAIDS, WHO, WB, UNICEF and
UNFPA)
The objectives of the AAI are to:
• Accelerate sustained access and increase use of appropriate, good
quality interventions for the prevention, treatment of HIV/AIDS
• Ensure that care and treatment reach significantly greater numbers of
people in need, through new alliances involving committed
governments, private industry, the UN, development assistance
agencies, non-governmental organisations and people living with
HIV/AIDS.
Data released in January 2005 by the AAI estimated that the number of
patients in developing countries receiving ARV treatments supplied by the
pharmaceutical companies in the AAI reached more than 333,000 by the end
of September 2004. This includes 157,500 patients in Africa, a 50% increase
since September 2003.
This increase is encouraging but much more needs to be done. The AAI
companies are committed to working together to accelerate these trends and
bring the benefits of HIV care and treatment to those in need. We will continue
to work closely with affected communities, non-governmental organisations,
the medical community, governments and multilateral organisations to
improve existing initiatives and identify new opportunities.
GSK held the chairmanship of the AAI during 2004 and coordinated a process
to review the initiative and ensure that it is as effective as possible in the fight
against HIV/AIDS in developing countries.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 61Leadership and advocacy 5.2
Patient Advocacy
Patient advocacy groups provide their members with support and information
on how to live with their disease, represent patient views and lobby on issues
affecting patients’ interests. They are an important stakeholder for GSK and
we engage with them as part of our aim to be a patient-focused company.
Our annual Patient Advocacy Leadership Summit (PALS) is one of the ways
we do this. The summit includes a forum for patient groups to learn more
about GSK and tell us how we can better support their work. There are a
range of workshops for attendees including sessions on media training and
sharing best practice. Throughout the summit attendees receive information
on GSK patient programmes, such as our Orange Card or disease
management programmes.
In 2004, PALS was extended from the US to include patient groups
worldwide. Over 400 people attended from 23 countries. Attendees
represented 233 different advocacy organisations including those dedicated to
mental health, HIV/AIDS, respiratory diseases, epilepsy, cancer, bone and
joint diseases and diabetes.
Feedback from the event was very positive. For example 90% of attendees
from Europe felt the event had been either an excellent or a good investment
of their time. It also highlighted the key priorities for patients – more R&D,
better information about their disease and access to the best available
treatment.
GSK has a dedicated Global Advocacy Team which contributes to planning
PALS and co-ordinates our interaction with patient groups. We have
developed a code of conduct to guide our work with patient groups and a
Patient Advocacy Manual of best practice for employees. This work is part of
a company-wide effort. Other initiatives include ‘Focus on the Patient’ in R&D
(see Focus on the Patient in the website for more information).
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 62Leadership and advocacy 5.3
GSK’s Unique Business Model for Vaccines
GSK’s new rotavirus vaccine, Rotarix, received its first launch in Mexico in
January 2005. As well as Mexico, Rotarix will be launched in other Latin
American countries during 2005 and soon after in Asia Pacific countries. It
has already been submitted for regulatory approval in more than 20 countries
worldwide.
Rotavirus infection is the leading cause of severe diarrhoea and vomiting
(gastroenteritis) in children under two. It affects children all over the world but
is rarely fatal in developed countries. However in developing countries around
600,000 children die from rotavirus each year.
This is the first time that a major pharmaceutical company has focused the
clinical and regulatory strategy for a vaccine first on a region of the world
other than the European Union or US. The launch is part of GSK’s unique
strategy to deliver vaccines first to people with the greatest medical need.
“GSK has a solid track record of providing vaccines globally for more than 20
years and is constantly developing novel and unique approaches to ensure
new vaccines get to those areas of the world who need them most as fast as
possible”, said Jean Stéphenne, President and General Manager of GSK
Biologicals. “In the case of Rotarix, we focused our clinical and regulatory
strategy first on countries where the medical need for a rotavirus vaccine was
one of the highest in the world.”
Rotarix was tested in the largest phase III clinical trial ever performed for a
vaccine. It involved 70,000 children, mostly in Latin America and Asia but also
in US and Europe.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 63Leadership and advocacy 5.4
Science Policy Conferences
GSK R&D is sponsoring a series of annual science policy conferences in the
UK on issues relating to the conduct of pharmaceutical and biomedical
research. The aim is to promote discussion and dialogue between key
stakeholders including policy makers, regulators, pharmaceutical companies,
scientists, doctors and patient groups.
The first conference took place in 2003 and was organised in conjunction with
the Department of Health and the National Institute for Clinical Excellence. It
focused on how medicines are evaluated by regulators, pharmaceutical
companies, patients and other stakeholders and looked at how the current
system could be improved to address medical needs more effectively. It
highlighted a potentially important role for the NHS as a source of research
data for evaluating medicines in clinical practice.
In 2004 the conference was organised with the Department of Health and the
Academy of Medical Sciences. It looked at issues influencing the quality of
clinical research in the UK including the regulatory framework, funding
mechanisms, the provision of infrastructure and the importance of adequate
career development and training provisions. It highlighted actions needed to
improve clinical research for the benefit of patients, for example, the need to
increase patient involvement by putting more information on clinical research
into the public domain.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 64Leadership and advocacy 5.5
Importation of Medicines
The price of brand name prescription drugs is often lower in other countries
than in the US. For this reason, some people in the US have started to buy
prescription drugs from abroad, often over the internet. The US Food and
Drug Administration (FDA), which has not approved the drugs that foreign
vendors offer for sale to Americans, has warned that this is illegal and unsafe.
GSK has consistently opposed this practice because of the increased safety
risks to patients. Our view of the risks was confirmed in 2004 by a report from
the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Task Force on Drug
Importation, chaired by the Surgeon General Richard H. Carmona. The task
force looked at safety issues around illegal drug importation and the potential
for cost savings to be made if the practice were made legal. The full report
can be found online at http://www.hhs.gov/importtaskforce/.
According to the report, drugs imported by consumers come into the US from
a wide range of countries. These drugs are typically not approved by the FDA
and may fail to conform in many aspects to the FDA-approved drugs available
in the US. Specifically, the report found that, “Importation increases the
opportunities for counterfeit and other substandard drugs to enter and be
dispersed into the US drug distribution system… American consumers
currently purchasing drugs from overseas are generally doing so at significant
risk.”
The Task Force concluded that it would be “extraordinarily difficult” to ensure
that drugs imported by individual consumers meet the necessary standards
for safety certification. Noting that the FDA does not have sufficient resource
now to ensure the safety of personally imported drugs, the Report concludes
that, “There is no realistic level of resources that could ensure that personally
imported drugs are adequately inspected to assure their safety since visual
inspection, testing and oversight of all personally imported prescription drugs
are not feasible or practical at this time.”
The Task Force report states that there are a number of new anti-
counterfeiting technologies in development that, once they are universally
adopted, may provide assurance on the safety and authenticity of prescription
medicines. However it noted that, “widespread adoption of authentication
technologies, while theoretically able to secure the US drug supply, is a
daunting task that could raise the cost of imported drugs thereby reducing any
expected savings from importation”.
The report concludes that the cost of carrying out safety checks on imported
medicine, and profits going to middlemen, would in large part offset the
potential savings from differences in prevailing prices. Based on an analysis
of actual data on drug prices and volumes, the Task Force found that, “Total
savings to drug buyers from legalised commercial importation would be one to
two percent of total drug spending and much less than international price
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 65comparisons might suggest. The savings going directly to individuals would
be less than one per cent of total spending. Most of the savings would likely
go to third party payers, such as insurance companies and HMOs.”
The report findings have confirmed our view that patients should stick to
trusted methods for saving money on approved medicines, such as savings
cards, that are legal and safe. GSK is sensitive to patients’ concerns over
costs and the lack of prescription drug coverage for the uninsured in the US.
That is why we led the industry in establishing the first prescription savings
card – the Orange Card - and are a founding member of the Together Rx
programme.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 66COMMUNITY INVESTMENT
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 676. Community
Investment
6.1 Value of 6.2 Humanitarian 6.3 Major Public 6.4 Community 6.5 Supporting 6.6 Employee
Commu nity Relief Health Initiatives Partnerships Education Involvement
Investm ent
Community 6
Community Investment
Corporate responsibility principle
We will make a positive contribution to the communities in which we
operate, and will invest in health and education programmes and
partnerships that aim to bring sustainable improvements to under-served
people in the developed and developing world.
This section explains how we invest in communities. For information on our
support for developing countries through preferential pricing and voluntary
licensing see: Access to medicines in the website.
Learn more about Community investment in the website
GSK provides money, medicines, time and equipment to help improve health
and education in under-served communities. We support public health
initiatives and local community projects around the world and donate
medicines to support disaster relief efforts and impoverished communities.
In 2004 our total community investment was valued at £328 million ($600
million), equivalent to 5.4% of pre-tax profits. Donations are made by our
corporate contribution committees at group level and by individual GSK sites
to support local communities.
This section provides information on the programmes we supported in 2004. It
covers:
• A breakdown of our charitable donations in 2004
• Donations of medicines for humanitarian purposes
• Major health initiatives in developing countries to tackle lymphatic
filariasis (LF), HIV/AIDS, malaria, and diarrhoea-related disease
• Community partnerships – local support provided at corporate level
and by GSK sites
• Our support for science education in the US and UK
• How GSK employees are involved in our community investment
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 68We received a range of awards for our community investment activities during
2004, including:
• GSK was a finalist at the Committee to Encourage Corporate
Philanthropy awards
• PHASE was one of 10 winners at the World Business Awards
organised by the UN Development Program, International Chamber of
Commerce and International Business Leaders Forum for projects
supporting the Millennium Development Goals
• Disease Prevention and Education award for our PHASE project in the
Pharmaceutical Achievement Awards
• Runner up for Business in the Community’s European Impact Award
for our work with Barretstown
• Science Across the World, one of our business-education partnerships,
received The Conference Board of Canada and International
Partnership Network’s Global Best and European Language awards.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 69Case study
Tackling Poverty and Malaria in West Africa
We’ve known for 100 years that mosquitoes spread the malaria parasite, yet
only now is this information causing a quiet revolution in West African villages.
Credit with Education, an initiative by Freedom from Hunger, aims to break
the cycle of poverty and ill health by providing financial services and
education for poor women. GSK’s African Malaria Partnership is funding a
new malaria education programme as part of this project.
Burkina Faso, one of the poorest countries in the world, is benefiting. Poor
women in rural areas can access small loans, savings facilities and other
financial services by joining their village credit association. They meet
regularly to make loan repayments and learn about issues from basic
business skills to child nutrition and family planning. Malaria prevention and
treatment is a recent addition.
It is estimated that in Africa a child dies from malaria every 30 seconds but
many people are unaware that malaria is spread by mosquitoes feeding at
night. The malaria education teaches women how to prevent infection by
using insecticide-treated bednets, and to recognise early signs of malaria.
Kiswenside is one woman who has benefited. She trades soap and clothing
and through the credit association was able to save part of her weekly income
to purchase an insecticide-treated bednet. “Now even though it is very hot, we
accept that we must sleep under a net. I feel a great satisfaction and a little
pride that I can make positive changes in my life,” she says.
The malaria education module is expected to reach half a million people by
2006 in six West African countries: Benin, Burkina Faso, Ghana, Mali, Togo
and Senegal.
www.freefromhunger.org/malaria.html
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 70Community 6.1
Value of Community Investment
GSK donations were valued at £328 million ($600 million) in 2004, and
supported programmes in more than 100 countries. This is equivalent to 5.4%
of pre-tax profits.
This figure includes medicines worth £203.5 million ($372 million) donated to
low-income patients in the US through our Patient Assistance Programs, and
£50 million ($92 million) of humanitarian product donations for under-served
communities around the world.
Product donations are valued at wholesale acquisition cost. This is the
wholesale list price, not including discounts, which is the standard
pharmaceutical industry method for valuing product donations.
Our total community investment also includes £17.7 million ($32 million) in
management costs and £48.4 million ($89 million) in cash grants.
GSK is a member of the UK’s Percent Club for companies which donate at
least 1% of their pre-tax profits to charitable causes. GSK is regularly one of
the top companies in the UK’s Guardian Giving List which lists FTSE 100
companies by the percentage of pre-tax profits contributed to charitable
causes.
Method of giving - total £328m
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 71Breakdown of cash giving - total £48.4m
We are members of the UK’s London Benchmarking Group (LBG) and the
Committee to Encourage Corporate Philanthropy (CECP) in the US. We
report our donations in line with the guidelines set by the CECP, which values
our medicines at wholesale acquisition cost, in line with other pharmaceutical
companies.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 72Community 6.2
Humanitarian Relief
Link to updated stories in the website
GSK donates essential products, such as antibiotics, to help humanitarian
relief efforts in disaster zones and to support basic healthcare provision for
impoverished communities.
Donations are made at the request of governments and major charitable
organisations and may be manufactured specifically for these partners.
GSK works in partnership with relief charities that have experience in
delivering humanitarian aid, including AmeriCares, Direct Relief, InterChurch
Medical Assistance, MAP International and Project HOPE.
Activity During 2004
During 2004 we donated life-saving medicines to support relief efforts in over
100 countries. Immediate supplies of antibiotics and basic medicines were
sent in response to the devastating tsunami in South East Asia, severe
flooding in Bangladesh, the humanitarian crisis in Sudan and the hurricanes
which affected Central America, the Caribbean and the US.
We donated more than 3.6 million doses of antibiotics and 600,000 vials of
vaccines to prevent the spread of infectious diseases in countries affected by
the tsunami. We have also committed £2 million ($3.7 million) to support
organisations working on relief operations in the disaster area.
The total value of our humanitarian product donations in 2004 was £50 million
($92 million), based on wholesale acquisition cost. The amount supplied each
year varies according to demand.
GSK is a member of the Partnership for Quality Medical Donations (PQMD),
an alliance of pharmaceutical companies and humanitarian agencies that
works to encourage the donation and timely delivery of appropriate medicines
to people in need. GSK follows the WHO guidelines for product donations.
In 2005 we will continue our product donation programme for humanitarian
relief though the amount of product made available varies each year in
response to both variable demand and availability of product.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 73Community 6.3
Major Public Health Initiatives
Learn more about major public health initiatives in the website
GSK supports public health initiatives in developing countries through
donations of medicines, financial and practical support.
We focus on efforts to tackle three major diseases – lymphatic filariasis (LF or
elephantiasis), HIV/AIDS and malaria - as well as our PHASE education
programme to reduce diarrhoea-related disease.
Progress During 2004
Eliminating Lymphatic Filariasis (LF)
Learn more about eliminating LF in the website
GSK is a founding partner in the Global Alliance to Eliminate LF
(http://www.filariasis.org/). LF is a disfiguring disease prevalent in tropical
countries and one of the world’s leading causes of permanent disability.
The Global Alliance is a partnership between pharmaceutical companies, the
World Health Organisation, Ministries of Health, NGOs and community
organisations, aiming to totally eliminate LF by 2020.
We have committed to provide as many doses of albendazole, our anti-
parasitic drug used to prevent transmission of LF, as are needed to treat the
one billion people at risk in 80 countries.
In 2004 we donated 67 million albendazole treatments, worth £7 million ($13
million), valued at wholesale prices, to 34 countries. Demand from some
countries was lower than anticipated in 2004 due to problems extending
programmes to new regions. We have donated 307 million albendazole
treatments since 1998 and over 85 million people have benefited from this
programme.
We also gave £1 million ($1.8 million) in grants during 2004 to support the
Global Alliance to Eliminate LF and a team of dedicated GSK employees
helps in its advocacy, research, community mobilisation and education
initiatives.
The rate of LF infection has already dropped in many participating countries.
For example, Egypt began a nationwide campaign to eliminate LF in 2000.
Since then 2.4 million people have received treatment, over 90% of those at
risk of infection. Infection rates have fallen dramatically over the same period.
During 2005 the Egyptian government will be evaluating the impact of the
programme to decide whether to continue the preventative treatment
campaign. During 2004 we expanded our manufacturing site in Cape Town,
South Africa, to produce albendazole tablets and help us deliver enough
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 74treatments to support elimination efforts in all at-risk countries. This facility is
expected to start producing albendazole for Africa in 2005.
Positive Action on HIV/AIDS
Learn more about Positive Action in the website
GSK provides HIV/AIDS medicines at preferential prices to developing
countries (see Access to Medicines in the website).
We also support communities affected by HIV/AIDS through Positive Action,
part of our community investment. Set up in 1992 Positive Action recognises
that the involvement of people affected by HIV and AIDS is a key element in
helping control the HIV pandemic. During 2004 Positive Action supported 32
programmes in 35 countries in partnership with 23 community organisations.
The impact of HIV/AIDS is exacerbated by HIV/AIDS-related stigma and
discrimination – a major barrier to people accessing healthcare. Positive
Action seeks to strengthen the responses of and promote access to care and
treatment for the most vulnerable communities affected by HIV/AIDS. One
example was a grant of £115,000 ($210,000) to enable people living with
HIV/AIDS and community leaders to attend the 15th International AIDS
Conference in Bangkok, Thailand. This was an important opportunity for
community organisations to share experiences and ideas and participate in
technical workshops to build skills and improve AIDS services in their home
countries. Such conferences provide a platform for community
representatives to voice the needs of their home countries and to champion
equitable rights and access to healthcare for people living with HIV/AIDS.
We expanded Positive Action during 2004 to new countries in Latin America,
Asia, and central and Eastern Europe, in response to growing rates of HIV
infection in these areas.
This included seed funding to establish AIDS Action Europe (AAE), a new
pan-European HIV organisation. This consortium will help to mobilise
resources for the fight against HIV and support new awareness and
prevention campaigns, particularly in countries that have recently joined the
European Union.
In Latin America, we extended Positive Action to Bolivia, Argentina and Peru,
building on our successful programmes in other Latin American countries.
These programmes provide at-risk communities with accurate and up-to-date
information on HIV/AIDS and healthcare rights.
We also launched Positive Action at Work with the National AIDS Trust, UK,
and the Kenya HIV/AIDS Business Council to help businesses develop
education and awareness programmes to prevent discrimination and help
support employees affected by HIV/AIDS.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 75GSK’s African Malaria Partnership
Learn more about GSK’s African Malaria Partnership in the website
Our African Malaria Partnership is supporting education and behaviour
change programmes in eight African countries, through partnerships with
three non profit organisations - Freedom from Hunger, AMREF (African
Medical and Research Foundation) and Plan International.
GSK is investing $1.5 million (£820,000) in the African Malaria Partnership
over three years. This is expected to benefit two million people by
encouraging effective prevention and prompt treatment, particularly among
children and pregnant women.
One of the programmes supported through the partnership is the Credit with
Education programme, which provides small loans, business and health
education to very poor women. During 2004, Senegal was added to the five
West African countries already participating in the programme. See Tackling
Poverty and Malaria in West Africa in the website for more information.
In 2005 we intend to continue support for community-based malaria education
and behaviour change programmes.
Personal Hygiene & Sanitation Education (PHASE)
Learn more about PHASE
Every year more than two million people die of diarrhoea-related disease,
mostly children in developing countries. These deaths can often be easily
prevented through better handwashing and sanitation.
PHASE is an education programme helping to reduce diarrhoea-related
disease by encouraging school children to wash their hands. GSK established
PHASE in 1998 and has invested £1.5 million ($2.7 million) in the programme.
PHASE is run in partnership with AMREF and Plan International - as well as
Ministries of Health and Education.
PHASE currently operates in five countries – Kenya, Uganda, Zambia,
Nicaragua and Peru - reaching more than 300,000 children and their
extended families. The programme has had impressive results. For example,
studies show that diarrhoea rates have fallen by 40% following the
introduction of PHASE to schools in the Kenyan community of Ongielo.
In 2004 the Group committed three-year funding of £226,000 ($414,000) to
extend the programme into Uganda in partnership with the Ministry of Health
and AMREF.
GSK has convened a PHASE steering committee with representatives from
the countries and partners involved to identify new partners and help expand
the programme into new countries.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 76Community 6.4
Community Partnerships
Learn more about community partnerships in the website
We support a wide range of health and education initiatives in the
communities where we operate. Donations are made centrally and by GSK
sites to support local charities and good causes.
Below are just a few examples of the many community partnerships we
supported in our four main regions during 2004.
Europe
Barretstown in Ireland and L’Envol in France are residential camps where
seriously ill children can have fun and develop their self confidence. GSK
gave £250,000 ($458,000) and £100,000 ($183,000) respectively, to support
the camps in 2004. Employees also give their time to Barretstown and L’Envol
– with over 40 GSK employees participating in 2004.
Three new European programmes were launched, each receiving a grant of
£300,000 ($549,000) over three years. These were:
• Change in Advance, a disease prevention programme that promotes
healthy eating and exercise, aimed at Slovakian children living on
urban housing estates
• a programme in Spain that provides healthcare for homeless and
abandoned children
• Multi Coloured Lives, an interactive education programme to help
children with disabilities integrate into Russian society
International
GSK contributed £100,000 ($183,000) to the Integrated Management of
Childhood Illnesses (IMCI) initiative in Ethiopia, in partnership with WHO and
UNICEF. IMCI aims to reduce childhood deaths from preventable and
treatable conditions such as pneumonia, diarrhoea, malaria, measles, and
malnutrition. It helps families to improve the health of their children through
better nutrition and healthcare.
In Vietnam GSK is supporting the ‘500 Ethnic Midwives’ initiative with
$335,000 (£183,000) in funding. The funding is being used to build a training
centre where 500 women from Vietnam’s ethnic minority groups will become
trained midwives. People from ethnic communities often live in poor rural
areas where there is little access to healthcare services. The new midwives
will play an important role helping to improve mother and child health in their
home towns.
UK
GSK supports over 70 charitable organisations in the UK. In 2004 this
included over £500,000 ($915,000) to support medical research undertaken
by the charities Breakthrough Breast Cancer, Cystic Fibrosis Trust, DEBRA,
Ehlers-Danlos Support Group and the Motor Neurone Disease Association.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 77A GSK grant of £386,000 ($706,000) over two years will support the British
Lung Foundation’s Baby Breathe Easy programme. It will fund a pilot scheme
which will be run in nine regions across the UK supporting parents and carers
of young babies and children under five in dealing with diagnosed and
undiagnosed recurring chest problems.
US
GSK is donating $350,000 (£191,000) over three years to the Arthur Ashe
Institute for Urban Health. The Institute provides health education for low-
income neighbourhoods in non-traditional venues, including African American
and Afro-Caribbean churches, barber shops, beauty salons, laundromats and
tattoo parlours. It provides information in English and Spanish to help
promote early disease detection and encourage people in multi-ethnic
communities to adopt healthier lifestyles.
We continued our support for the Children’s Health Fund’s Referral
Management Initiative (RMI). A three-year grant of more than $2 million (£1.1
million) is helping the RMI expand into seven US states, helping high-risk and
homeless children receive the specialist medical care they need.
Foundations
GSK does not operate a single charitable foundation for its community
investment programmes but has a number of small country-based foundations
in Canada, Czech Republic, France, Italy, Romania, Spain, and North
Carolina in the US. Our local foundations support a wide range of charities
and healthcare initiatives.
Over the last six years, the GSK France Foundation has supported a number
of programmes in 12 African countries and Cambodia to improve HIV/AIDS
prevention education, training and care. By 2005 over 270,000 people are
expected to have benefited.
The GSK Foundation in Canada focuses much of its support on hospice care
helping terminally ill patients and their families. The Foundation is also
supporting community programmes in Africa, including the extension of the
PHASE project into Uganda.
The North Carolina GSK Foundation in the USA is an endowed, self-funding
organisation. It supports initiatives in the areas of mathematics, science and
health education in North Carolina. In 2004, this Foundation awarded grants
totalling $2.8 million (£1.5 million).
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 78Community 6.5
Supporting Education
GSK supports education in the UK and US with a particular emphasis on
developing scientific literacy and encouraging the next generation of
scientists.
During 2004 our programmes focused on inspiring children to take an interest
in science and improving science teaching.
Science Education in the UK
GSK is supporting the INSPIRE (INnovative Scheme for Post-doctoral
researchers In Research and Education) scheme, developed in partnership
with Imperial College London and the Specialist Schools Trust, with a £1
million ($1.8 million) donation over four years. INSPIRE aims to raise
achievement by placing post-doctoral researchers in specialist science
schools to train as teachers and support science teaching.
We also gave £100,000 ($183,000) to support Science Across the World, an
international education programme that enables school children in more than
100 countries to discuss science issues over the internet.
Bio-Bubble is a giant, inflatable model of a human cell, developed by the
Edinburgh International Science Festival and sponsored by GSK. During
2004, the Bio-Bubble toured schools across the UK with two science shows
helping young people to learn about biology in a fun environment.
GSK has committed £1 million ($1.8 million) over four years to help build the
new Darwin Centre at the Natural History Museum in London, that will enable
better display of the museum’s important collection.
Education in the US
A three year grant of $300,000 (£164,000) from GSK is helping the National
Board for Professional Teaching Standards to increase the number of science
teachers in the North Carolina and Philadelphia areas.
Science in the Summer, a free library-based science education programme in
Philadelphia received a grant of $365,000 (£199,000). Now in its 19th year,
Science in the Summer has reached over 68,000 children.
Not all our support is focused on science education. We also provide more
general support to help improve overall education standards. For example
GSK gave a grant of $129,000 (£70,000) to the Philadelphia Education Fund
for the ‘Middle Grade Matters’ campaign to improve education for children
aged 11-16.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 79Community 6.6
Employee Involvement
GSK employees are encouraged to contribute to their local communities as
volunteers.
Hundreds of employees give their time to good causes through our Days of
Caring in the US, and to support science education to school children through
our UK Science and Engineering Ambassador Scheme and US Partnership
for Educational Discovery.
In September 2004 over 500 employees from six GSK sites in Germany gave
their time to community projects as part of a new ‘Orange Day’ initiative. The
volunteers gave practical support to over 60 projects. Activities included
constructing a bowling course at an old people’s home, painting rooms in a
women’s shelter, and helping a local charity develop a marketing and PR
plan.
In the UK and US we also make cash donations to charities where employees
have done voluntary work.
During 2004, our GSK Investment in Volunteer Excellence (GIVE) programme
gave over $350,000 (£191,000) to 700 charitable organisations in the USA
where employees or their partners volunteered at least 50 hours during the
year. In the UK our Making a Difference programme provided grants of
£269,000 ($492,000) to over 400 charities, based on employee involvement.
In many countries we also encourage employees to donate money to charity
by matching the money they give or by providing tax-efficient ways for them to
make a donation, in accordance with local taxation guidelines.
In 2004 in the USA, GSK matched donations by 15,800 employees and
retirees at a value of over $4million (£2.2 million). In addition, GSK gave
$1.3million (£710,000) to match donations by GSK employees through the
GSK and United Way campaign: “One Spirit Caring, One Spirit Sharing”.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 80ENGAGEMENT WITH
STAKEHOLDERS
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 817. Engagement With
Stakeholders
7.1 Engagement on 7.2 Engagement
Corporate With Investors
Responsibility
Engagement 7
Engagement With Stakeholders
Corporate responsibility principle
We want to understand the concerns of those with an interest in corporate
responsibility issues. We will engage with a range of stakeholders and will
communicate openly about how we are addressing CR issues, in ways that
aim to meet the needs of different groups while allowing us to pursue
legitimate business goals.
Engaging with the different groups that have an interest in the way GSK
operates is an important part of responsible business practice. These
stakeholders include employees, investors, patients, doctors, governments
and NGOs. By listening to them and being open about our views and actions
we can build trust and address their concerns.
Much of this discussion takes place in the normal course of business. For
example our scientists meet regularly with academics, researchers and other
pharmaceutical companies as part of their work. Through our access to
medicine programmes and community investment we collaborate closely with
NGOs, multilateral agencies, governments and community groups. More
information is available on stakeholder consultation in the following sections:
Access to Medicine, Animal Research, EHS Management, Leadership and
Advocacy, and Suppliers in the website.
We interact with governments to give our views on policy issues affecting
GSK and the pharmaceutical industry. We engage with governments directly
or through membership of trade organisations, such as the Pharmaceutical
Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA)and the Association of the
British Pharmaceutical Industry (ABPI). Our size and global reach give us
access to policy makers and we recognise that we need to use this
responsibly to benefit patients and our business. More information on our
approach to external relations is available at External Affairs in the website.
We also meet with some stakeholders specifically to discuss corporate
responsibility issues. Their feedback informs our approach to managing and
reporting on these subjects.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 82This section focuses on our CR engagement. It covers our activities in 2004
including:
• Our CR survey of key stakeholders
• Engagement with socially responsible investment analysts
Case study
Investor Briefing on R&D
Animal research is one of the issues that socially responsible investment
analysts look at when evaluating pharmaceutical companies for inclusion in
their investment funds. They need to be confident that there is robust
justification for animal use, animal welfare is a high priority during research
and that GSK is doing all it can to reduce, replace and refine the use of
animals in research.
We welcome engagement on this issue and are keen to explain our approach.
In April 2004 GSK held a briefing for 14 SRI analysts at our research facility in
Harlow, UK. The aim was to illustrate the role of animals in research, explain
that animal testing is a small but important part of the overall drug
development process, and demonstrate our animal welfare standards.
The analysts visited the animal research laboratory at Harlow, saw the
animals used in research and their accommodation and had the opportunity to
question laboratory staff. They also visited the high throughput chemistry
laboratories and viewed some of the new technology introduced to reduce
animal testing such as the animal MRI scanner.
Feedback from the event was positive: “Not only did it usefully provide a clear
insight into how the animals are cared for it also provided in depth information
on the processes and work behind drug discovery and development,” said
one SRI analyst.
For more information on our approach to animal research see Research and
Innovation in the website.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 83Engagement 7.1
Engagement on Corporate Responsibility
Dialogue with stakeholders allows us to understand their concerns and ideas
and helps to set the strategic corporate responsibility agenda in GSK.
In 2004 we commissioned a survey of 50 opinion leaders in Europe, the UK
and US. Participants included academics, CR organisations, customers,
government agencies, investors, the media, multilateral agencies and NGOs.
The survey sought their views on our performance on social and ethical
issues and our CR reporting. Environmental issues were not covered because
they are addressed by a separate stakeholder panel.
The survey provided in-depth qualitative feedback but was not designed to
produce statistics. The responses gave us a clear indication of how GSK is
perceived and the areas that stakeholders consider important.
CR Survey Findings
The participants were asked to identify the key CR priorities for GSK and the
four considered most material for GSK were:
• Access to medicines in the developing world
• Marketing ethics
• Clinical trials (how they are conducted and transparency of results)
• Access to medicines in developed countries
Access to Medicines
Access to medicines in developing countries was seen as the single most
important issue. GSK was seen to be doing well in this area. Our programmes
- preferential pricing, research into diseases of the developing world and
community investment - were generally rated highly.
The issue of access to medicines in developed countries was a growing
concern for many participants. There were positive and negative views on
GSK’s performance in this area. Generally participants felt that the
pharmaceutical industry should be doing more to improve access for the poor
in the developed world.
Ethical Issues
A number of participants raised issues about our business practices. The
publicity associated with GSK’s antidepressant Paxil/Seroxat increased
concerns about marketing practices and the conduct of clinical trials and
disclosure of results. Respondents would like to see these issues covered in
more depth and how we are addressing them.
Animal research was also raised as an important issue for GSK and our
stakeholders gave a positive response to our performance and reporting on
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 84this issue. Interviewees liked the level of disclosure and the reasoning given.
See Animal Research in the website.
CR Reporting
Participants were asked to comment on our 2003 CR Report. It was felt that
the report covered the material issues for GSK and they were positive about
GSK’s commitment to annual CR reporting.
The majority of stakeholders thought GSK’s reporting would be improved by
increasing the number of performance indicators, providing information on
future plans for key issues and increasing transparency by tackling
controversial issues in a more direct way.
Many participants felt that our separate CR and Environment, Health and
Safety (EHS) reports made it harder for them to assess our overall
performance.
Several participants wanted to see more information on the impact of our
access to medicine programmes, with clearer information on the scale of the
health problems that our programmes are addressing.
Emerging Issues Over the Next 5-15 Years
Participants felt that access to medicines in developing countries will continue
to be the biggest issue for GSK, but drug pricing in developed countries will
come under greater scrutiny. Ethical issues around clinical trials, marketing,
and R&D will also be significant.
How We Are Responding to Stakeholders
The stakeholder survey has provided us with useful feedback and we are
grateful to all the opinion leaders for their views.
We have been able to respond to some feedback immediately. For example
we have now fully integrated our EHS reporting into the Corporate
Responsibility report. In this report we have increased the number of
performance indicators. We will continue to review and add to them as
appropriate in future reports, though it is important to remember that not all
CR issues are amenable to numerical indicators or objectives.
We believe that our existing programmes in the two highest priority areas -
access to medicines and ethics - are substantial and appropriate.
We have improved access to clinical trial results with the launch of our clinical
trial register in the website.
Sometimes we receive feedback and suggestions from stakeholders that we
disagree with or are unable to accommodate without damaging the interests
of the company and its shareholders. Where possible we explain the reasons
for this, for example the need to use animals in research. We will continue to
engage with stakeholders, particularly opinion leaders, to gauge the success
of our CR programmes.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 85Engagement 7.2
Engagement With Investors
Investors are taking a growing interest in the corporate responsibility
performance of companies, both as a measure of the long term sustainability
of the business and to decide which companies should be included in their
Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) funds.
GSK provides information to these investors in a number of ways.
We meet regularly with SRI analysts to discuss CR issues and respond to
their requests for information. During 2004 we had more than 40 meetings
with these analysts and discussed issues including access to medicines,
animal rights, supply chain, sales and marketing ethics and clinical trials.
We also held several events for SRI analysts to meet and discuss issues with
senior management:
• our CR day for SRI analysts in London was attended by 28 analysts
and 15 senior GSK managers
• 14 analysts visited our research laboratories in Harlow where they
viewed the high throughput chemistry laboratory, the animal
research laboratory and viewed some of the new technology
introduced as part of our commitment to the 3Rs (see Investor
Briefing on R&D in the website)
• 13 SRI and mainstream investors visited our Barnard Castle
manufacturing site in the UK to find out about quality control and
environmental initiatives.
Some investment and research organisations collect performance information
via questionnaires. These are used to rate GSK’s CR performance and to vet
GSK for inclusion in CR indices. GSK is included in the FTSE4Good and Dow
Jones Sustainability Indices.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 86STANDARDS OF ETHICAL
CONDUCT
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 878 Standards of
Ethical Conduct
8.1 Code of 8.2 Management 8.3 Training and 8.4 Monitoring
Conduct Certification on Awareness and Compliance
Business Ethics
Ethics 8
Standards of Ethical Conduct
Corporate responsibility principle
We expect employees to meet high ethical standards in all aspects of our
business, by conducting our activities with honesty and integrity, adhering to
our corporate responsibility principles, and complying with applicable laws
and regulations.
GSK products are important to the health of people around the world, so it is
particularly important that we operate to high ethical standards, act
responsibly and comply with the law.
GSK is fully committed to ensuring that all our business practices meet high
standards and that our employees behave ethically and honestly. We have
clear and comprehensive policies and procedures, backed by training and
monitoring to help us do this.
This section explains our approach and our performance in 2004. It covers:
- Our Code of Conduct
- Management certification on business ethics
- Training and awareness programmes
- Monitoring and compliance systems
Information on ethical issues in sales and marketing is covered in Products
and Customers in the website.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 88Case Study
Ethics Training for Administrative Staff
Business ethics is the responsibility of everyone at GSK, not just senior
managers.
In July 2004 we held an ethics seminar for our administrative support staff at
GSK House in London. The aim was to raise awareness of our Employee
Guide to Business Conduct and show how ethics are relevant to
administrative assistants -- for example, when they are handling budgets,
dealing with suppliers and checking correspondence.
The seminar was organised by the GSK House Admin Community and
presented by a senior vice president in our legal department. The session
highlighted potential ethical concerns around gifts and entertainment, and was
attended by 55 people.
A variety of situations were discussed where support staff might need to
recognise an ethical dilemma and act with integrity. For example, assistants
deal with post and will often be the first to see any letters reporting suspected
misconduct. They need to deal with these letters promptly, forward them to
the right people and treat them confidentially.
A similar ethics seminar is planned for US administrators during 2005.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 89Ethics 8.1
Code of Conduct
Download the GSK Employee Guide to Business Conduct in the website
Our Employee Guide to Business Conduct contains the company policies that
set out the standards of behaviour we expect from employees. It requires all
employees to act with integrity, comply with the law, avoid conflicts of interest
and report any violations or unethical behaviour.
Detailed guidance is provided, including real-life examples, on what
constitutes acceptable or unacceptable behaviour. GSK employees have
access to the guide via the company intranet. Our induction training
familiarises new employees with business conduct standards and where they
can obtain support and guidance.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 90Ethics 8.2
Management Certification on Business
Ethics
Commitment to our Code of Conduct is reinforced by an annual management
certification programme. This requires our top managers to certify that they
comply with the statement below. Certification documentation is managed
electronically and is followed up to ensure completion. In 2004 over 9,600
managers completed the certification.
The full certification statement is reproduced below.
“I certify that:
• I understand that GSK is committed to the principle of "Performance
with Integrity," and in particular, to ensuring that its activities comply
with all applicable laws.
• I have received a copy of or have access to the GSK Code of Conduct
(POL-GSK-001) and other GSK corporate policies through the
Corporate Policy Index page at http://corp-
ethics.gsk.com/Corporatepolicy.htm
• I have read and understand The Employee Guide to Business
Conduct, accessible at http://corp-ethics.gsk.com/EmployeeGuide.htm
• I have complied with applicable laws, regulations, and GSK corporate
and local policies and procedures.
• All people under my supervision have received copies of or have
access to the GSK Code of Conduct and other GSK policies and have
been informed of their responsibilities.
• I have put in place appropriate measures to ensure that the people
under my supervision comply with the laws, regulations, and GSK
corporate and local policies and procedures while working on behalf of
GSK.
• I understand my responsibility to promptly report any actual or
suspected violations of the law, regulations, or GSK corporate and
local policies and procedures.
• I have reported all actual or potential compliance issues of which I am
aware concerning legal requirements or company policies.
Exceptions (list any compliance issues that should have been reported
previously but were not):”
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 91Ethics 8.3
Training and Awareness
We have training and awareness programmes to make sure employees
understand our codes and policies, comply with the law and know what
standards of behaviour are required.
Our global induction course includes training on our Code of Conduct. This
ensures new employees understand the importance of ethical conduct from
day one, know how to deal with potential dilemmas and know where to seek
help. We provide additional training for employees who will be working in
areas where there are particular concerns, such as sales and marketing and
research and development in the website.
In addition, we provide training and workshops to keep employees up to date
with changes and to reinforce key elements in GSK policies.
Progress During 2004
During 2004 over 50 training workshops were held in our International region
and Japan (which includes all our operations outside Europe and the US).
These covered a range of business ethics issues including conflicts of
interest, competition law, corporate governance, gifts and entertainment,
marketing practices, record keeping, and reporting legal or ethical concerns.
The workshops presented employees with examples of ethical dilemmas they
could face in their work and asked them to consider how they would respond.
Guidance was then provided to help people understand appropriate
responses.
In R&D, an e-learning module entitled ‘Performing with Integrity’ was
launched. At present, approximately 19,000 GSK employees are enrolled on
the course and over 9,700 successfully completed it by the end of 2004.
Performing with Integrity encompasses training on the Code of Conduct,
Conflicts of Interest and Acceptance of Gifts and Entertainment by GSK
employees.
Objectives for 2005
We plan to develop and deliver additional training on ethics and compliance.
In particular we are developing training that reinforces employee obligations
under the Employee Guide to Business Conduct and the risks associated with
non-compliance. In 2005 we expect to develop and deliver this training course
to staff in corporate functions (including Finance, HR, IT and
Communications).
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 92Ethics 8.4
Monitoring
We monitor awareness of ethical issues and company policies through our
Integrity Helplines, reporting channels and regular surveys.
As part of our commitment to continuous improvement, we benchmark our
compliance programme against other major companies, our industry peers
and government and regulatory standards.
Monitoring Awareness of Ethical Issues
Our Leadership Survey in 2004 included questions on business ethics. The
survey was completed by over 9,500 managers and the results were
encouraging:
• 91% of respondents felt that people in their department show
commitment to performance with integrity
• 92% said they understood how the GSK Code of Conduct applied
to their jobs
• 76% felt that they could report unethical practices without fear of
reprisal.
These results help us to identify the areas we need to focus on. Where
necessary we direct ethics training to the business units that scored lower
than average on these questions.
GSK Corporate Ethics and Compliance function
GSK has a dedicated compliance function that works with the GSK business
units to identify compliance issues and how to address them. In 2004 we
increased the number of full-time compliance officers from four to eight.
Compliance officers are all senior level managers, with direct access to the
leadership teams of GSK functions. They are a source of expertise and a
point of contact for anyone with a question on ethics or compliance with GSK
policies.
Compliance officers are also responsible for defining the training needs of
their section of the organisation and communicating the latest news, policies
and legislation affecting GSK.
Reporting Concerns
Employees are encouraged to seek help and to report any concerns or
suspected cases of misconduct. They can do this through their line
management, a compliance officer, or through our confidential Integrity
Helplines or offsite post office box.
The Helplines and post office box are promoted through the Employee Guide
to Business Conduct, on the GSK intranet and during training. The Corporate
Ethics and Compliance function is promoted as a source of information and
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 93advice, as well as a mechanism for reporting concerns. Data from 2004
suggest employees understand this and see it as a useful source of advice
and guidance. During 2004 there were 2,580 contacts with the compliance
functions of which 75% were from employees seeking advice or information.
The remaining 25% were from employees reporting suspected cases of
misconduct.
Addressing Misconduct
Our Corporate Ethics and Compliance department ensures that all allegations
and suspected cases of misconduct are investigated. We are committed to
taking firm steps to stop misconduct. Disciplinary action, up to and including
dismissal, is taken where necessary.
Data on disciplinary actions have traditionally been collected and held by local
human resources departments where it is of most operational value to the
company. In 2004 we began to collate this information for the first time and
have collected data from all our major business units (including
Pharmaceuticals, Manufacturing, Corporate, Consumer Healthcare and R&D).
We believe the data to be a reasonable reflection of 2004. During this process
we identified ways to improve the categorisation of disciplinary actions and
the mechanics of the data collation. This will improve the quality of data in
future reports.
In 2004 there were 954 disciplinary actions taken as a result of investigations
into allegations of misconduct. This included 256 dismissals and separations.
Other disciplinary actions included verbal and written warnings, and in some
cases, financial penalties. Employees staying with the company received re-
training and increased monitoring.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 94RESEARCH & INNOVATION
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 959. Research &
Innovation
9.1 Animal 9.2 Conduct of 9.3 Training and 9.4 Public Disclosure
Research Clinical Trials Auditing for Clinical of Trial Results
Trials
Research 9
Research and Innovation
Corporate responsibility principle
In undertaking our research and in innovating:
• We may explore and apply new technologies. We will constructively
engage stakeholders on any concerns that may arise.
• We will ensure that our products are subject to rigorous scientific
evaluation and testing for safety, effectiveness and quality.
• We will comply with or exceed all regulations and legal standards
applicable to the research and development of our products.
Research and development (R&D) of new medicines and vaccines is at the
core of our business, and makes a significant contribution to society.
New drugs have brought huge benefits to the health and quality of life of
millions of people over the last 100 years. But continued R&D remains as
important as ever. There are still many serious, debilitating and life
threatening illnesses for which there are no effective treatments or where
treatments could be significantly improved.
In 2004 we invested £2.8 billion ($5.1 billion) in R&D. Nearly 15,000 people
work in R&D at GSK.
There are many ethical concerns relating to biomedical and pharmaceutical
research - from the use of new technologies to the objective reporting of
clinical trial results. GSK is committed to the highest ethical and scientific
standards in all our R&D work. This section explains our approach to animal
research, the conduct of clinical trials and the public disclosure of clinical trial
results. For information on our approach to new technologies see Ethical
Issues in R&D in the website.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 96Case Study
Focus on the Patient
“Everything we do in Discovery Research can make a difference to patients –
this is what motivates me,” explains Karen Lackey, Director of Systems
Chemistry in Discovery Research.
Karen leads a group of 51 research chemists in the UK, US and Japan. They
work at the beginning of the drug discovery pipeline, identifying and creating
molecules that have the potential to become new treatments. In her previous
role in the organisation, her chemistry team was involved in discovering the
lapatinib molecule for use in breast cancer treatments which is now being
tested in clinical trials.
Karen believes that the introduction of Centres of Excellence for Drug
Discovery (CEDD) at GSK has had an important impact. CEDDs bring
together a range of experts in a particular disease area to speed up the drug
discovery process. “The way GSK R&D is set up helps us to prioritise our
efforts and ensure that we discover the most effective medicines. Through the
CEDDs, researchers have access to experts in all our main therapeutic areas.
They evaluate every molecule for its value to patients and help us to identify
which ones will have the most impact.”
Jill and Eric Wolford understand the importance of this better than most. In
1999 Jill was diagnosed with breast cancer and underwent nine months of
intensive treatment including chemotherapy, radiation and stem cell
transplants.
Now recovered and back at work as an Associate Director at GSK’s Global
Clinical Operations North America, she and her husband Eric, also a GSK
employee, are keen to talk about their experiences. They are meeting with
R&D managers and leadership teams to talk about how Jill’s illness has
shaped their attitudes to life and work.
This is part of GSK’s Focus on the Patient, an initiative that aims to reinforce a
patient centred culture across R&D. Employees have the opportunity to hear
from patients about their diseases, the GSK treatments that have helped them
and the new medicines they need. One of the goals is to motivate employees
by reminding them of the benefits they can bring to patients through their
work.
Jill welcomes this initiative. “My father was a breast cancer survivor and I’m
99% sure I carry the breast cancer gene. So when I look at my kids I think
‘Please someone find a cure for breast cancer’. For every case report form
there is a person, family and network of friends. We treat people not diseases
and we need to remind ourselves of this the whole time.”
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 97Research 9.1
Animal Research
Learn more about animal research in the website
Animal research is essential to understand disease and to evaluate the safety
and effectiveness of new medicines before they are given to people.
Regulations require new medicines to be tested on animals before being
tested on humans for safety reasons. Some vaccines have to be tested on
animals each time a new batch is produced. We estimate that animal
research accounts for around 5% of all GSK research expenditure.
GSK has 13 animal research laboratories in Europe, Japan and the US. Some
research (around 7% of our total animal research) is conducted by external
contractors on our behalf.
Over 98% of the animals used in our laboratories are rodents (such as rats,
mice, guinea pigs) and rabbits. The remaining 2% includes fish, ferrets, pigs,
dogs, cats and primates.
Animals used in Research 2004
The Three Rs
Our animal research laboratories are subject to strict internal and legal
controls. GSK is committed to the 3Rs – reduction, refinement and
replacement – and to achieving the highest standards of animal welfare.
The 3Rs commit us to: reducing the number of animals used in each study;
refining studies to minimise pain and maximise the information obtained from
each animal; and replacing animal studies with alternative methods wherever
possible.
We provide extensive training on the 3Rs to all staff who are involved in the
care and use of animals, and we have a number of initiatives to increase
awareness of animal welfare. For example, we produce quarterly bulletins
which review recently published journal and news items on these subjects. A
UK-based 3Rs committee made up of GSK scientists, statisticians, senior
managers, animal technicians and veterinarians encourages a 3Rs culture at
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 98GSK through seminars and production and promotion of ‘Recommended
Practice’ guidelines for scientific procedures and animal welfare.
Our Animal Welfare Awards encourage employees to find alternatives to
animal research. The awards, presented twice a year by GSK’s R&D
Chairman, recognise employees who have made outstanding advances in
implementing the 3Rs. In 2004 awards were made for: refinement of an
animal model to discover new treatments for brain damage caused by
strokes; innovative use of imaging systems to minimise animal use while
accelerating drug development; use of computer-generated prediction models
and cell and tissue cultures to replace animal testing.
In Europe, we also give a GSK Laboratory Animal Welfare each year to
external researchers or laboratories for developing new techniques to
implement the 3Rs. The prize this year was won for a project that promoted
improvements in husbandry and housing for laboratory animals.
This approach is having an impact. Despite a significant increase in R&D
activity since 1994 the number of animals used by GSK is broadly similar to
ten years ago.
Change in R&D Activity Compared to change in Number of Animals
used by GSK
200
180 Animals used
R&D activity
160
140
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004
Recent GSK advances in research techniques supporting the 3Rs and animal
welfare:
1. Blood sampling techniques that reduce the number of animals used and
the number of injections required per animal and increase the quality and
efficiency of sample collection.
2. Refined methods for collecting DNA from transgenic mice, that reduce
animal stress and increase productivity.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 993. Development of better facilities and refined procedures for ferrets and
guinea pigs. Exchange of this knowledge between GSK laboratories in
different countries.
Regulation and Internal Controls
Our laboratories comply with strict national laws, guidelines and codes of
conduct on animal welfare. Regulators carry out regular unannounced
inspections of our sites to check standards of animal care.
GSK laboratories, and any external laboratories conducting research on our
behalf, must also follow our Code of Practice on animal research. When GSK
sponsors animal research at other companies or institutions, we require that
such entities meet all legal requirements to conduct animal based research
and we establish to the best of our ability, that best practice standards for
animal care and use are followed.
'Best practice' is defined as a combination of what is currently known from the
scientific literature, from published recommendations, and from the knowledge
of experts from within and outside GSK. In addition, GSK expects these
external collaborators to demonstrate application of best practice regarding
animal research. Accreditation by the Association for the Accreditation and
Assessment of Laboratory Animal Care International is one example of how
this can be demonstrated.
To ensure appropriate use of animals, all proposed animal tests must be
reviewed by our Ethical Review Committee.
We also obtain independent evaluation from the Association for Assessment
& Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care (AAALAC) International. Ten of
our laboratories are accredited by AAALAC including all our animal
laboratories in the UK and US. Our laboratories in Belgium, Italy and Spain
achieved accreditation during 2004.
Communicating Our Approach
We believe it is important to explain the need for animal research and to be
open about what we do.
Our laboratories host visits from schools, colleges, animal welfare
organisations and others. In 2004, we also made over 45 visits to UK and US
schools to discuss issues around animal research.
We are in regular discussions with animal welfare organisations, our investors
and other interested parties. For example this year we have contributed to the
work of the Nuffield Council on Bioethics and will be developing our
relationship with the new UK national centre for the 3Rs (NC3Rs).
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 100Research 9.2
Conduct of Clinical Trials
Learn more about clinical trials in the website
The safety and effectiveness of new medicines must be evaluated in clinical
trials before they can be approved for marketing.
Regulators will only give approval if trials demonstrate that a product is safe
and effective and that its benefits outweigh any risks from potential side
effects.
A new product will typically be tested through three stages of clinical trials.
These involve both healthy individuals and patients with the relevant disease.
In 2004 there were 140 projects in clinical development.
Traditionally most clinical trials have been carried out in Western Europe and
the US. It is however becoming increasingly challenging to enrol sufficient
patients in these countries as the increasing number and scale of trials is
often utilising most of the available investigators and patients. Therefore as
clinical trial capabilities in Eastern Europe, Latin America and Asia have
improved significantly in recent years, we are starting to conduct more trials in
these regions. We also conduct a number of clinical trials in the least
developed countries of the world to evaluate medicines for diseases that
disproportionately affect these countries.
During any clinical trial the safety of participants and future patients is our first
priority. All our trials, wherever they are conducted, are carried out according
to international standards of good clinical practice and applicable laws and
regulations. The trial protocols are reviewed by external regulatory agencies
in the relevant countries when required and all protocols are considered by
relevant ethical review committees whose remits cover the sites where
studies will take place. Safety data are routinely collected throughout
development programmes and are reported to regulators in line with
applicable regulations as well as being reviewed by GSK on an ongoing basis
for any safety signals. The GSK Global Safety Board is responsible both for
approval of pivotal protocols and internal assessment of any issues related to
patient safety that arise during the development programme.
Good Clinical Practice standards
All clinical trials are conducted according to the Good Clinical Practice (GCP)
guidelines developed by the International Conference on Harmonisation
(ICH).
These guidelines provide an internationally accepted ethical and scientific
quality standard for designing, conducting, recording and reporting trials. They
cover issues such as the selection and training of trial investigators, gaining
informed consent from trial participants, monitoring and quality assurance.
All trials must be approved by an independent ethics committee to ensure the
trial is justified and that it is designed and will be conducted according to
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 101appropriate ethical standards. These committees have the power to reject or
stop a clinical trial. An ethics committee is typically composed of lay people,
medical professionals and scientists.
We conduct audit activities to ensure clinical trials are conducted to the
appropriate standards, see Training and Auditing for Clinical Trials in the
website.
Clinical Trials in Eastern Europe, Latin America and Asia
The pharmaceutical industry is starting to perform more trials in regions such
as Eastern Europe, Latin America and parts of Asia.
There are several reasons for this. Clinical trial capabilities in these regions
have improved significantly in recent years and trials in these countries can
help to speed up the research process and ensure new medicines get to
patients more quickly. Fewer patients are enrolled into trials in these countries
so it is easier and quicker to find patients to participate. These patients have
often used fewer medicines compared with those in Western Europe and the
US. This makes them good candidates for a clinical trial because it is easier to
assess the effect of the products being tested. Cost is also a factor, with
operating costs in these countries being lower. Our objective is to carry out
more of our clinical trials in Eastern Europe, Latin America and parts of Asia
by 2005.
There are concerns that trials in these regions may not be carried out to the
same high standards as those in Western Europe and the US. All GSK clinical
trials are carried out to the same standards of GCP everywhere in the world.
This is vital to protect patients and ensure that we can gain regulatory
approval for new medicines.
Clinical Trials in Diseases of the Developing World
GSK has seven products in clinical development for diseases that
disproportionately affect the developing world. For more on R&D for
developing world diseases see Access to Medicines in the website.
Clinical trials for diseases of the developing world need to be carried out in
countries where the disease is prevalent, and these can include some of the
world’s least-developed countries. All trials that we sponsor, irrespective of
location, are conducted according to the standards applied in developed
countries.
In some of the least-developed countries extra efforts may be required to
ensure that we meet global standards. For example, in areas with low literacy
levels it can be difficult to obtain informed consent from trial participants. In
these cases investigators work with independent witnesses to make sure that
the trial is properly explained to participants and that they understand what is
involved.
For more information on our policy and procedures in this area see Clinical
Trials in the Developing World in the website.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 102Research 9.3
Training and Auditing for Clinical Trials
We provide training to ensure that clinical trials are performed to high ethical
and quality standards. We also audit the conduct of clinical trials to ensure
they are carried out according to Good Clinical Practice (GCP) guidelines.
All employees involved in designing, conducting and monitoring GSK-
sponsored trials are trained in GCP. Training is mandatory and employees
must have completed the required training before starting or changing jobs. In
2004 there were 11,239 training activities related to GCP. Each "training
activity" represents a successful completion of an e-learning module or
instructor-led course related to GCP by one of our employees or
complementary workers.
We keep detailed training records which are routinely requested by regulatory
authorities when undertaking an inspection to assess the competence of
employees undertaking clinical trials.
GSK has an internal audit department (independent of the departments
responsible for conducting clinical studies) which conducts audits of GSK
systems and processes involved in the conduct of trials, as well as auditing
clinical research organisations and investigators performing clinical research
on our behalf. In 2004, 176 audits were conducted:
• 102 audits of investigator sites conducting GSK-sponsored trials
(representing approximately 5% of investigator sites participating in
pivotal clinical trials)
• 17 audits of internal GSK systems and processes used in managing
clinical trials / data
• 26 audits of clinical research organisations carrying out clinical trials on
GSK’s behalf
• 17 audits of GSK Country Medical Departments
• 14 audits conducted in response to suspected irregularities
Audit results are reported quarterly to the R&D Risk Management &
Compliance Board, and annually to the GSK Audit Committee. Any concerns
or issues identified during audits are fully investigated and appropriate action
taken. All breaches of GCP are reported to the appropriate regulatory agency.
In 2004 these audits resulted in 144 findings that needed further investigation,
and 4 investigators were reported to regulatory agencies.
Inspections of investigators, clinical research organisations, independent
ethics committees (IECs)/Institutional Review Boards (IRBs) and sponsors of
clinical trails are also carried out by regulatory authorities to ensure the safety
of trial participants, the quality of data, and that trials are conducted according
to GCP. During 2004 there were 29 such inspections of GSK and
investigators used by GSK to conduct clinical studies.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 103Research 9.4
Public Disclosure of Trial Results
More on GSK’s Clinical Trial Register in the website
The pharmaceutical industry is legally required to disclose all relevant data
from clinical trials to the appropriate regulatory authorities when seeking
approval for a new product.
After approval, sponsors have a continuing obligation to provide regulatory
authorities with updated safety information from clinical trials. This ensures
regulators can accurately assess the safety and effectiveness of new
medicines and monitor their safety after approval. Safety and efficacy
information is provided to doctors through prescribing information which is
approved by regulators.
In addition there is a need to use ways other than prescribing information to
appropriately communicate the results of our clinical trials to healthcare
practitioners and others who use or evaluate the use of our medicines.
GSK has taken a significant step this year to respond to concerns about
access to trial results.
Our Approach
GSK follows the PhRMA Principles on the Conduct of Clinical Trials and the
Communication of Clinical Trial Results and is committed to timely
communication of results for all products approved for marketing.
Wherever possible we publish our clinical trial results in peer-reviewed
scientific and medical journals, or in conference abstracts and proceedings.
These are used by research and healthcare communities to obtain the latest
information on treatments.
In 2004 there were 374 such publications describing the results of GSK’s
clinical trials. The number of publications each year depends on the number
of trials completed and the number accepted for publication.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 104Number of publications of GSK clinical trials
600
500
400
300
200
100
0
Y2001 Y2002 Y2003 Y2004
GSK cannot guarantee publication of trial results by these methods since this
is at the discretion of journal editors and conference organisers. That is why
we launched our online Clinical Trial Register in 2004, to supplement
prescribing information and publications in the scientific literature (see Clinical
Trial Register in the website).
The Register contains results and protocol information from GSK-sponsored
trials of marketed medicines. It also provides references to publications that
have appeared in medical journals. Anyone can use the internet to access the
Register.
By the end of 2004 results for 143 clinical trials had been published on the
site. We aim to post, by the end of 2005, the trial results from all clinical trials
of marketed products completed since the merger of GSK as well as earlier
trials of these products if they are likely to inform medical judgement. Trial
results for new products approved for marketing will be posted on the register
by the time that medicine is first launched in a major market.
To maximise access to our clinical trial data, we have also committed to
posting trial results on the PhRMA clinical trials results database
(www.clinicalstudyresults.org).
GSK is legally required to post summary protocol information for ongoing
studies of treatments for serious or life- threatening diseases conducted
under a US Investigational New Drug Application on the National Institutes of
Health website (www.ClinicalTrials.gov) when the trials initiate enrolment. This
provides information about the trial's purpose and contact details for further
information, enabling patients and investigators to take part. In addition to
posting summary protocols for serious or life threatening diseases, in 2004 we
made an additional commitment to post summary protocol information for all
other GSK-sponsored clinical trials on the site. This will facilitate participation
and enable interested parties to track the trials taking place and the
subsequent public disclosure of their results.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 105We are dedicated to assuring that our results Register and our posting of
summary protocol information of trials initiating enrolment are consistent with
our stated commitments. To that end, we are establishing a means of
providing third-party compliance verification that information being posted to
the public databases is in agreement with the principles that we have
established. This will be conducted with the assistance of an external
organisation - we expect to complete the first full compliance verification
exercise in Q3 2005.
Additionally, GSK will assemble an international advisory board to provide
input on matters related to the public disclosure of information arising from our
clinical research activities.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 106PRODUCTS AND CUSTOMERS
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 10710. Products and
customers
10.1 Marketing 10.2 Marketing training
codes of practice and compliance
Products 10
Products and Customers
Corporate responsibility principle
We will promote our products in line with high ethical, medical and scientific
standards and will comply with all applicable laws and regulations.
GSK products are sold in more than 150 countries around the world. The first
priority with any product in any country is patient safety. We have systems
and processes to collect, analyse and report safety concerns about our
products. For more on our approach to patient safety please go to: Patient
Safety in the website.
Most of our products are sold by sales representatives who regularly meet
doctors and pharmacists to inform them about our medicines and their
approved uses. We also market products directly to consumers where this is
permitted.
The sale and promotion of pharmaceutical products is highly regulated by
governments and medical agencies. GSK is aware of the sensitivity and
concerns regarding the marketing of medicines and we are absolutely
committed to high ethical standards. We have developed marketing codes
and policies and provide training to guide sales representatives, to ensure that
they behave ethically and comply with the law.
This section explains our approach to marketing practices and covers our
policies, training and compliance programmes. It includes information on
compliance with our marketing policies during 2004.
Information on other business ethics issues can be found in Standards of
Ethical Conduct in the website.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 108Case study
GSK Thailand Presses for Higher Standards in the Industry
The Thailand Industry Association, PReMA (Pharmaceutical Research and
Manufacturer Association) has stewardship of the industry code of marketing
practices.
In January 2004, the MD of GSK Thailand, Rick Gain, was appointed to the
Board of PReMA and as Chair of its Sales and Marketing Ethics
Subcommittee (SMES). At this time the existing marketing practices code was
three years old and made general rather than specific commitments.
Rick's priority was to reform the industry code bringing it into line with US and
European norms. The Code was strengthened in a number of areas. For
example, guidance on sponsorship for overseas conferences was
strengthened. The revised Code now prohibits sponsorship of overseas
meetings where all (or nearly all) the attendees or speakers are from
Thailand. This aims to prevent overseas travel being used as an inducement
to conference participants.
The review process took nine months and involved gaining agreement from
12 major member companies of PReMA. The new code was adopted by the
PReMA Board in November 2004 and a Memorandum of Understanding was
signed by the member companies. Commercial staff received training on the
revised code from senior members of the SMES in December 2004.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 109Products 10.2
Marketing Codes of Practice
Our sales representatives promote our products. They do this by providing
information to doctors so they understand our products and the benefits they
can deliver to patients.
Our marketing policies and codes of practice give guidance to sales and
marketing employees about the high ethical standards we require. Our codes
stress that all marketing and promotion must be based on valid scientific
evidence, be consistent with national prescribing documentation, and comply
with the law. Inducements such as gifts or bribes are never acceptable under
any circumstances.
All GSK employees must also abide by our Code of Conduct and Employee
Guide to Business Conduct. The Employee Guide contains a specific section
covering our customers and marketplace. See Code of Conduct in the website
and Employee Guide to Business Conduct in the website.
Marketing Policies and Codes of Practice
Our company-wide policy on Pharmaceutical Marketing and Promotional
Activity applies to all employees and agents. It commits us to promotional
practices that are ethical, responsible, principled and patient-centred. It
prohibits bribery or other inducements to doctors.
In December 2003 we introduced regional marketing practices codes in
Europe, International, and Japan (marketing codes were already in place in
the US). These codes apply the same ethical standards in all regions but
reflect differences in market structures, national healthcare systems and laws
and regulations.
We also adhere to international and regional industry codes of practice. These
include the IFPMA, PhRMA, EFPIA and JPMA marketing codes.
Progress During 2004
During 2004 GSK’s regional codes were translated into major local languages
and rolled out across GSK. Sales and marketing employees now have access
to them on the intranet and many have received printed copies. Area
champions in each country have coordinated distribution and training on the
new codes. The European code of practice includes a quarterly reporting
mechanism where the markets confirm whether any breaches of the code of
practice have occurred, the severity of any breaches and what actions have
been taken to prevent recurrence.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 110We also developed and distributed a new ‘Guide to US Healthcare Law’ for
our US Pharma employees. While this information was previously provided
through training, the new guide provides a concise and easy-to-read overview
of the complex legal requirements applicable to health care businesses in the
US. The guide supports our commitment to an ethical culture in which
employees have a good understanding of GSK’s sales and marketing policies
and the legal framework behind them.
Compliance with policies and procedures is a formal performance objective of
sales and marketing employees in the US. This is evaluated as part of
employee performance reviews. All US Pharma employees must include the
following objective in 2005:
"Consistently follow company policies and procedures, take and complete
required compliance training in a timely manner, and report compliance issues
to manager, Legal or Compliance."
In addition, managers must include the following:
"Ensure that supervised employees are trained on company policies and
procedures and have taken all required training, and provide oversight and
direction to supervised employees so that they are in compliance with
company policies and procedures."
Objectives for 2005
We plan to analyse the differences amongst the GSK International, European
and US codes of practice and local requirements in an effort to consolidate
and harmonise these codes as appropriate.
The US will continue to enhance its compliance programme with the addition
of resources to act as sales and marketing compliance advisers. These
advisers will work with the business units to ensure that compliance and
ethics policies are fully integrated and embedded.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 111Products 10.2
Marketing Training and Compliance
We recognise that strong policies and codes of practice do not guarantee that
all employees will meet our standards. Commercial pressures and complex
regulatory environments can sometimes present our employees with difficult
ethical dilemmas.
This is why we provide regular training for sales and marketing employees
that reinforces the importance of ethical conduct and helps them to
understand the behaviour expected of them.
Internal compliance systems are designed to identify and address breaches of
our codes.
Training and Awareness
Sales representatives receive detailed training on the medicines they promote
and the diseases which they are designed to treat.
Sales and marketing employees are also given training on appropriate
marketing practices and their obligations and responsibilities under our
marketing codes. Practice varies by region but employees receive training
when they are hired, with refresher courses on an on-going basis.
Progress During 2004
During 2004 area champions coordinated training on our new regional codes.
Information on the codes is being added to induction training for all new
employees, regardless of whether they will have a sales or marketing role.
In 2004 sales and marketing staff were either trained or recertified their
understanding of the sales and marketing code. This was a global effort in
which:
• Over 1,100 new staff in the US were trained and nearly 8,000 existing staff
completed recertification on policies
• Over 10,000 sales and marketing staff in Europe were trained on the
regional sales and marketing code
• In our International region training was delivered in all seven regional
business units
Training is provided in a variety of ways, including self-study, on the job
training by managers, web-based learning and in-house courses. Sales staff
are required to pass a test on our code of practice before starting their sales
role.
In the US, sales and marketing employees are now required to assess their
compliance with our marketing codes as part of their annual performance and
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 112development plan appraisal. This encourages employees to view compliance
as an integral part of their overall performance.
Monitoring and Compliance
Sales representatives are supervised by sales managers who regularly
monitor educational events, visits to doctors, and expenses, to ensure best
practices are observed. This is supplemented by additional monitoring by
independent staff as needed in certain areas.
Sales managers are directed to report issues and infractions to regional
compliance officers or senior managers. They are encouraged to do this
through normal line management channels, but have the prerogative of
making reports directly to Corporate Ethics and Compliance if necessary. All
issues are investigated and appropriate action determined, with referral to the
Corporate Ethics & Compliance department as appropriate.
Employees are also encouraged to report concerns or suspected breaches of
our marketing codes through their line manager, compliance officer, or
confidentially through our Integrity Helplines and offsite PO Box (in the US).
Staff in local market customer response centres are trained to deal with
concerns about marketing practices that might be raised by healthcare
professionals, patients or the public. They redirect calls to appropriate senior
management or a compliance officer if necessary.
Our internal audit department also audits sales and marketing practices
during regular audits of the business.
During 2004, specifically as a result of breaches of sales and marketing
codes, 87 employees were dismissed or agreed to leave the company
voluntarily. In addition there were 109 cases of employees being issued with
written warnings, which included remedial training, and in some cases,
financial penalties.
These figures form part of the overall figures reported in Standards of Ethical
Conduct in the website.
Objectives for 2005
Sales and marketing compliance advisers will be appointed in the US during
2005. They will work with the business units to ensure that compliance and
ethics policies are fully integrated and embedded.
A Compliance Analysis and Reporting group will also be set up in the US to
review compliance monitoring, auditing and investigations data and advise
GSK management on compliance related issues.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 113CARING FOR THE
ENVIRONMENT
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 114Environment 11
Caring for the Environment
EHS Management 118
Energy and Climate Impact 131
Water 140
Waste 146
Ozone Depletion 156
Volatile Organic Compounds 161
Product Stewardship 164
Suppliers 169
Compliance 172
Verification Statement 173
Progress Towards Targets 176
Corporate Responsibility Principle
We will operate in an environmentally responsible manner through systematic
management of our environmental impacts, measurement of our performance
and setting challenging performance targets. We will improve the efficiency of
all our activities to minimise material and energy use and waste generated.
We aim to find opportunities to use renewable materials and to recycle our
waste.
Caring for the environment is a key element of our approach to Corporate
Responsibility at GSK. Our Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) Plan for
Excellence sets out a strategy to improve our performance over the ten-year
period to 2010, from a 2001 baseline. This includes interim targets to be
reached by the end of 2005.
We are on track to meet seven of our ten targets. These cover some of our
most important environmental issues, including energy and water
consumption, ozone depleting potential, global warming potential, wastewater
quality, volatile organic compound emissions and non-hazardous waste. We
may not achieve the three targets on hazardous waste, recycling and ozone
depletion potential of ancillary equipment by the end of 2005. A fuller
explanation of our performance is provided on the relevant pages of this
report. Next year we will set new targets for 2010.
About the Environment Section of This Report
This is the 5th year that we have reported on our environmental performance.
The legacy companies (Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham)
individually published EHS reports for a number of years prior to the formation
of GSK in 2000. Copies of these reports are available on the Corporate
Register website.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 115In previous years, we have published a separate EHS report alongside our
Corporate Responsibility Report, but this year we have fully integrated the
two.
Further background information on our approach to managing environmental
issues is available in the Environment, Health and Safety in the website
section of our website. There are also more details about our corporate
responsibility reporting in the section about this report in the website.
Scope of Data
The environmental data covers the calendar year 2004. It is collected from 83
of our 84 pharmaceutical and consumer manufacturing sites, 4 of our 8
biologicals manufacturing sites and 20 of 24 R&D sites as well as 5 of 6
distribution centres, 4 of the 6 major office locations and 6 of the smaller office
and sales locations. We include data for sites that were in operation for all or
part of the year.
We plan to collect energy, water and waste data from our smaller offices,
sales and distribution centres in a phased approach over the next few years.
However, the overall environmental impact from these sites is relatively small
and we therefore do not plan to collect other environmental data.
Notes attached to the charts explain the scope and data collection process for
each parameter in more detail.
Verification
The environment, health and safety sections of this report are externally
verified by ERM (Environmental Resources Management). Web pages to
which the verification applies are indicated by this symbol
See ERM’s verification statement in the website.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 116Case Study
Raising Children’s Awareness of Environment, Health and Safety
In 1996, GSK’s manufacturing site in Evreux, France, set up a community
partnership project for schools. The project was an environment, health and
safety (EHS) award scheme that encouraged children to learn about the EHS
issues that are important to their future.
In its first year, five schools and 100 children took part. Thanks in part to the
continued help of local offices of the French Education Ministry, the French
Social and Health Insurance Ministry Office and a local association dedicated
to science, 14 schools and 300 children entered the competition in 2003.
Each year has its own EHS theme. For 2003 the theme was Waste Recycling.
The first prize – 200 euros towards a school project and a trip to the Science
and Industry Hall in Paris – went to a team that created a papier mache
educational booklet about waste and recycling. Other prize-winning entries
included a game about recycling and a play about waste. An educational film
on recycling was shown at the awards ceremony. The theme for 2004 was
health and hygiene.
The awards scheme has helped to build and enhance GSK’s reputation in the
local community. The project won first place in the community partnership
category of our internal awards scheme – the Chief Executive Officer’s EHS
Excellence Awards.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 117Environment 11.1
EHS Management
Environment, health and safety (EHS) issues are managed through an
integrated system that aims to ensure issues and risks are identified,
standards are established, training is provided, targets set and audits
conducted.
We have a clearly defined EHS management structure. Overall responsibility
for EHS issues rests with the Corporate Executive Team and the Board. The
Board champion for EHS is JP Garnier, the Chief Executive Officer. We also
have a Corporate Responsibility Committee and Corporate EHS department.
See more on our EHS Management Organisation in the website.
Our EHS Policy, EHS Vision and 64 Global EHS Standards set the overall
framework for managing EHS issues. Our EHS Plan for Excellence sets out
our strategy for improving our environmental performance up to 2010. See
more on our EHS Management System in the website..
In 2004, four sites achieved dual certification to the international
environmental management standard ISO14001 and the international health
and safety standard OHSAS 18001 for the first time. One site did not renew
its certification in 2004 and one site certified only the utilities area. This means
that 14 out of 84 pharmaceutical and consumer manufacturing sites are now
certified to both ISO14001 and OHSAS 18001, and seven sites are certified to
ISO 14001 only. We are working to increase site certification and expect to
have around a third of our sites certified by the end of 2005, which would put
us in a position to move towards global certification.
Case Study
Eliminating Waste From our Chemical Production Processes
In Verona, Italy, we have developed a process which reduces the
environmental impact of producing a chemical which is being tested to help
treat chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting.
Originally, the method for synthesising the chemical required very low
temperatures and produced significant quantities of waste by-products. It also
required the use of triphosgene – a toxic reagent which must be specially
transported, managed and handled. The original process was designed for
producing small quantities of the chemical. It was scaled up several times to
produce larger quantities for clinical trials, but the process remained
unchanged.
In 2003, researchers set out to create a more efficient process suitable for
commercial production if the clinical trials were successful. The innovative
new process eliminated the need for extremely low temperatures, saving
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 118energy.
A number of hazardous substances were removed from the process, including
triphosgene, chlorinated solvents and silica treatments. This helped to reduce
waste by 75% and the cost of raw materials by over 50%.
This innovative development won first place in the green chemistry/technology
category of our internal awards scheme - the Chief Executive Officer’s
Environment, Health and Safety Excellence Awards.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 119Environment 11.1.1
Letter From the Vice President, EHS
This year, for the first time, GSK’s Environment, Health and Safety (EHS)
report is fully integrated into the company’s Corporate Responsibility Report
on GSK.com.
We cover the same issues in the same detail as before, but have made it
simpler to understand our overall approach to corporate responsibility and to
see the connections between the many subject areas covered.
Consultation with stakeholders has helped us identify the prime sustainability
challenges we face. These are: climate change, the impact of
pharmaceuticals in the environment, and more sustainable materials
consumption. We have begun work developing strategies to tackle these
issues and will publish our plans in 2006.
We have developed a rigorous approach to EHS and sustainability, with a
long term ‘Plan for Excellence’ and five-year improvement targets applying
throughout our operations. The first five-year phase of the programme will be
complete in 2005 so we will set new five-year targets during this year to help
drive the business towards sustainability. From the end of 2005 we will
expand traditional EHS programmes to include a focus on sustainability.
We have continued to make progress – for example, in 2004 four additional
sites were certified to the EHS management system standards ISO14001 and
OHSAS 18001.
We are on track to meet seven of our ten quantified environmental targets by
the end of 2005. The targets cover some of our most important issues,
including energy and water consumption, ozone depleting potential, global
warming potential, volatile organic compound emissions, wastewater quality
and waste.
We may not achieve the three targets on hazardous waste, recycling and
ozone depletion potential of ancillary equipment by the end of 2005. A fuller
explanation of our performance is provided on the relevant pages of this
report.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 120Our long term plan for excellence charts a journey which begins with
improving our systems, progresses to leadership in EHS performance, and
ultimately brings us closer towards sustainability. The 10-year programme
envisages continuous improvement as well as identifying specific actions. As
good EHS management and performance are achieved we will set ourselves
more challenging sustainability objectives on materials efficiency, energy
efficiency and use of renewable resources. We also need to look more closely
at the inter-relations between the social, economic and environmental impacts
of our business.
I hope that this report meets your needs as a stakeholder and I welcome your
comments or suggestions.
James Hagan Ph.D., P.E.
Vice President Corporate Environment, Health and Safety
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 121Environment 11.1.2
Plan for Excellence
Our EHS Plan for Excellence sets out a strategy to improve our EHS
performance over the ten-year period to 2010. Each year we focus on a
different theme. The priority for 2004 was to develop policies in response to
external challenges such as climate change.
In September 2003, we held a meeting of an external stakeholder panel
(which represented government, customers, suppliers, environmental groups,
and others) to help us identify external challenges. Three key issues for GSK
were identified - pharmaceuticals in the environment, the use of chemicals,
and climate change. In response, we developed the following specific
objectives for 2004:
• Work with external stakeholders to review emerging issues.
• Draft a position statement on pharmaceuticals in the environment.
• Draft a position statement on the use of chemicals.
• Draft a position statement on the future use of energy.
• Implement a regulatory tracking system for EHS.
In 2004, we made good progress against these objectives. We worked with
the Environment Council to get feedback from external stakeholders on the
issues relating to pharmaceuticals in the environment, the use of chemicals
and the future use of energy. Following this consultation, we prepared
discussion documents in each of these three areas and began to get
feedback on them from employees. We will complete position statements in
these areas in 2005.
We also established a regulatory tracking process to alert us to emerging
EHS issues in the USA and the EU. A network of EHS specialists tracks
regulations which are made available on a database to employees with EHS
responsibilities.
In 2005 we will focus on ensuring that core programmes are in place
throughout the business. Our specific objectives are to:
• complete the implementation of our EHS management system, which is
aligned with ISO14001 and OHSAS 18001, at all operations;
• achieve acceptable audit scores at all operations. Our aim is to achieve an
average score of at least 75% in each business unit, with no site achieving
less than 50%;
• achieve the published 2005 EHS global targets;
• analyse how close we have come to meeting the strategic objectives
originally published in 2001 in the EHS Plan for Excellence;
• formalise our external stakeholder engagement process;
• review and revise as necessary the EHS Plan for Excellence for 2006-2010.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 122We are also working to develop a road map for sustainable development,
which outlines the key steps that we will need to take to become an
environmentally sustainable business. In 2004, we commissioned a study by
Forum for the Future into the role of a pharmaceutical company in a
sustainable society. We then used the findings to develop a draft road map,
which will be finalised in 2005.
See more on our EHS Plan for Excellence.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 123Environment 11.1.3
Stakeholder Engagement
We engage with a range of stakeholders to help us understand external
perspectives and identify emerging issues. Here we report our engagement
with stakeholders on environmental issues. See engagement with
stakeholders for details of how we engage with stakeholders on other
corporate responsibility issues.
In the past, we have held ad hoc stakeholder meetings to obtain feedback on our
EHS performance and plans. In September 2003 we held a major workshop of
external stakeholders to help us identify emerging challenges. We plan to establish a
more permanent stakeholder panel in 2005 to provide ongoing advice to GSK on
EHS issues.
The 2003 stakeholder workshop identified three key external challenges –
pharmaceuticals in the environment, the use of chemicals and the future use
of energy. In 2004, we worked with the Environment Council to interview
around 20 stakeholder organisations (including NGOs, policy makers,
regulators, customers, suppliers and trade associations) to help us develop
position statements on these issues. See Plan for Excellence in the website
for more about the position statements which will be published in 2005.
We also partner with a number of environmental organisations in specific
areas. For example, in 2004 we commissioned a study by Forum for the
Future into the role of a pharmaceutical company in a sustainable society, and
this is being used to help us develop a road map for sustainable development.
Another partnership is with the environmental organisation Earthwatch
Institute (Europe). GSK is a member of Earthwatch's Corporate
Environmental Responsibility Group and also funds Earthwatch to develop its
field research and conservation projects in the UK and send schoolteachers
on these projects as part of its educational programme. For the first time in
2004, we ran a competition to select a GSK employee to participate in a two-
week Earthwatch expedition overseas.
Many of our sites also engage with stakeholders locally, for example, through
open days, newsletters and community projects.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 124Environment 11.1.4
Audits and Certification
EHS Audits
We carry out Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) audits to assess
implementation of our EHS management system and standards. The audits
also assess sites’ compliance with key legislation. They are carried out by
internal auditors who are certified as lead auditors against the international
environmental management standard ISO 14001.
We aim to conduct EHS audits at each operational site at least once every
four years. We carry out more frequent visits at selected sites, depending on
an assessment of risk and the issues raised by previous audits.
In 2004, 33 sites were audited including three key office locations. Two thirds of sites
achieved acceptable scores (which we define as over 70%). The average score
across all sites audited was 71%. Ten sites in Belgium, Germany, Ireland, Japan,
Turkey, UK and the US achieved high scores of over 80%. One site in the UK
achieved a leadership score of over 90%. See more on audit achievement in the
website.
The highest scores were on environmental issues. We identified a number of health
and safety issues which require attention. See how we manage health and safety in
the website for details of the issues identified.
All sites are required to develop plans to address any weaknesses and
opportunities to improve identified in the audit. Auditors monitor sites’
progress in implementing the plans. In 2004 the EHS audit process and
scoring system were further refined based on experience and feedback. We
are testing EHS auditing software on our intranet site to help the auditors
track progress, and aim to have a fully functional version ready in 2005.
EHS Certification
In 2004, four sites achieved dual certification to the international
environmental management standard ISO14001 and the international health
and safety standard OHSAS 18001 for the first time. One site did not renew
its certification in 2004 and one site certified only the utilities area. This means
that 21 out of 84 pharmaceutical and consumer manufacturing sites are now
certified (14 sites are certified to both ISO14001 and OHSAS 18001, and
seven sites are certified to ISO 14001 only) and one site’s utility area is
certified to both. The certified sites are in China, Egypt, France, Germany,
India, Italy, Mexico, Poland, Spain, Turkey and the UK.
We are working to increase site certification and expect to have around a third
certified by the end of 2005. We will then be in a position to move towards
global certification.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 125Environment 11.1.5
Environment Costs
In 2004, our capital investment in environmental projects was £9.4 million and
our operating and maintenance costs were £43 million. This expenditure
relates to wastewater treatment, waste management and air pollution control.
Performance
Capital Investment Operations and Maintenance Costs
24.4 50
25 47.3
45 43.0
41.4
39.0
40
20
18.5
35
30
15
25
11.0
9.4 20
10
15
10
5
5
0
0 2001 2002 2003 2004
2001 2002 2003 2004
Waste
Waste Wastewater
Wastewater Air
Air
In 2004, there was a decrease in capital investment of 14.5% and an increase
in operations and maintenance costs of 10.3%. Capital investment has
decreased since 2001 due to cost control measures and rationalisation of
manufacturing sites. Operation and maintenance costs are cyclical and
therefore vary year on year.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 126Environment 11.1.6
Training and Awareness
We have a wide range of awareness-raising and training initiatives on EHS,
supported by a detailed EHS section on our intranet (called myEHS) which
includes policies, standards, guidelines, tools, examples of best practice and
news. See more on myEHS in the website.
Our Chief Executive Officers’ EHS Excellence Awards scheme recognises
outstanding efforts in EHS and helps raise the profile of EHS issues around
the business.
We prepare regular EHS bulletins which are distributed to all sites for posting
on bulletin boards. Three bulletins were circulated in 2004. We also include
articles on EHS in our internal magazine (GSK Spirit), our manufacturing
magazine and site newsletters.
GSK has two key awareness raising events – an Environment Week held
every June (to coincide with the World Environment Day) and an annual
Health and Safety Week held every October (to coincide with the European
Health and Safety week and Fire Safety Awareness Month in the United
States). Information kits are sent to all sites to help them develop ideas and
plan activities. In 2004, over 7,600 employees from 65 sites in 27 countries
took part in the Environment Week. Examples of activities included tree
planting, computer recycling, a no car day, and pledges to reduce energy use.
We also ran a competition during Earth Week for the best environmental
initiative, and funded the winner on a two-week conservation expedition run
by Earthwatch. See how we manage health and safety case study in the
website for more about the Health and Safety Week.
In the summer of 2004 we held our annual regional meetings for EHS
professionals in manufacturing to share information and best practice. These
events were attended by more than 100 EHS professionals.
EHS training takes place at site level, in accordance with our EHS Standard
on training. A range of training materials are available on our intranet site.
See more on EHS Communication in the website.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 127Environment 11.1.7
EHS Excellence Awards
Our Chief Executive Officer’s Environment, Health and Safety (EHS)
Excellence Awards Programme – run for the third year in 2004 – recognises
and rewards GSK sites for innovation in EHS. The winners are chosen by a
panel that includes experts from academia, government and NGOs.
There are three categories of awards – Community Partnership, Green
Chemistry/Green Technology, and the EHS Initiative Award (including
separate awards for environment and safety). Each winner receives a trophy
and selects a charity to receive a donation.
In 2004, there were 120 entries from 64 GSK sites in 32 countries - 27% more
entries than the previous year. The 2004 awards recognise achievements in
the calendar year 2003. The winners were:
EHS Community Partnership
1st Place: Evreux, France for “EHS School Challenge”
GSK business division - Global Manufacturing & Supply, New Product and Global
Supply
The EHS School Challenge aims to raise awareness of EHS issues among local
school children. In 2003, over fourteen schools took part in the initiative. See case
study in the website.
2nd Place: Xochimilco, Mexico for “Working with our neighbours”
GSK business division - Pharmaceuticals International and Global Manufacturing &
Supply, Regional Pharma Supply
The site supports a range of projects to help Mixteca ethnic communities. Examples
include: training for over four thousand “health promoters”, supporting a clinic for
cervical-uterine cancer and assisting local women to establish a chicken farm for
food and income.
3rd Place: Sonepat, India for “Project Pragati”
GSK business division - Global Manufacturing & Supply, Consumer Healthcare
Supply
Project Pragati (pragati means development) provides support to local communities,
including an eye clinic (to address the high incidence of eye problems in the area),
training of village women as seamstresses, traffic and pedestrian safety education
sessions and helping to fund a fire engine.
Green Chemistry / Technology
1st Place: Verona, Italy for “Environmentally Friendly Synthesis of
GW597599B”
GSK business division - Research & Development
Novel techniques have been used to remove several hazardous substances,
including triphosgene, from the production process of GW597599B (which is
being tested to prevent chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting). See
case study in the website.
2nd Place: Cork, Eire for “GW572016 Solvent Usage Reduction Project”
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 128GSK business division - Global Manufacturing & Supply, Primary Supply and
Antibiotics and Research & Development
A 35% reduction in solvent use and energy savings have been achieved by
re-designing the process for making GW572016 (used to treat solid tumours).
3rd Place: Stevenage, United Kingdom, for “Development of GW273629
Route of Manufacture”
GSK business division - Research & Development
A new process has been developed to produce GW273629 (used in the
treatment of migraines). This avoids the use of dioxane, a carcinogenic
chemical, and eliminates the use of DMF, a solvent listed as a reproductive
hazard under the Solvent Emissions Directive. It also saves energy and
reduces waste. Overall, improvements to the process have reduced costs by
£1,000 per kg, an annual saving of £30 million based on projected peak
production of 30 tonnes per year.
EHS Initiative – Environment
1st Place: Bogotá, Colombia for “Pharmaceutical Waste Bioremediation”
GSK business division - Global Manufacturing & Supply, Consumer
Healthcare Supply
The pioneering use of reed bed technology for the treatment of
pharmaceutical waste in Colombia has led to a 60% reduction in the cost of
final waste treatment. See case study in the website
.
2nd Place: Cairo, Egypt for “Waste Re-use and Reduced Resource
Consumption”
GSK business division - Global Manufacturing & Supply, Regional Pharma
Supply
A new process was designed to re-use waste gelatine in the encapsulation
process – reducing waste and resource consumption.
3rd Place: Barnard Castle, United Kingdom for “Increased Mass
Conversion Efficiency of Cephalosporin Oral Products”
GSK business division - Global Manufacturing & Supply, New Product and
Global Supply
Improvements to the process of producing cephalosporin (an antibiotic) have
significantly reduced the amount of waste - helping to divert over 1 tonne per
year of active pharmaceutical ingredient from incineration.
EHS Initiative - Safety
1st Place: Barnard Castle, United Kingdom for “Ergonomic
Improvements”
GSK business division - Global Manufacturing & Supply, New Product and
Global Supply
The site has successfully raised employee awareness of ergonomic risks.
Teams have identified and completed 59 ergonomic improvement projects
and ergonomic experts are consulted on the design of new equipment. See
case study in the website.
2nd Place: Nabha, India for “EHS Strategy and Mechanical Scraping
Machine”
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 129GSK business division - Global Manufacturing & Supply, Consumer
Healthcare Supply
The site, which produces malted food, implemented a new EHS Strategy. This
resulted in the development of a new mechanised scraping machine (used in
the tray drying process) which has reduced workers’ exposure to moving parts
and the risk of repetitive strain injury.
3rd Place: Mayenne, France for “Control of Driving Risks”
GSK business division - Global Manufacturing & Supply, Primary Supply and
Antibiotics
The site has organised driving safety courses for employees for five years.
Each year about 50 employees complete a one-day training session, including
classroom presentations and practical workshops where drivers learn to
control their cars in emergencies.
See CEO’s EHS Excellence Award in the website for more about the awards
programme and winners from previous years.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 130Environment 11.2
Energy and Climate Impact
An increase in greenhouse gases in the atmosphere is widely thought by
climate scientists to be causing a rise in the earth’s temperature, leading to
climate change.
Burning fossil fuels for heat and power releases carbon dioxide (CO ) – the
2
most significant greenhouse gas.
GSK’s climate impact comes from energy use from our facilities, transport,
and compounds we use that contribute to global warming. The biggest source
is energy use from our facilities (two thirds). We have a target to reduce global
warming potential from energy per unit sales by 8% by 2005 (from a 2001
baseline) and we are on track to meet this target (see energy in this report).
Compounds that contribute to global warming are used in the production of
metered dose inhalers and in some ancillary equipment. They include CFCs
and HCFCs (which also deplete the ozone layer) and HFCs (which do not
deplete the ozone layer). Emissions of ozone depleting compounds are also
reported in the ozone depletion section of this report. See product
stewardship in this report for more about the use of ozone depleting
compounds in our products.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 131Carbon dioxide and methane from waste treatment and fermentation also
contribute to our global warming impact. We report our performance in the
waste section of this report.
Performance
Global Warming Potential
3,499.7
3,162.3
2,779.2
2,647.9
Global warming potential decreased by 4.7% since 2003.
Note to Global Warming Charts
Our global warming impact from energy is calculated using conversion factors
from the World Business Council For Sustainable Development (WBCSD) /
World Resources Initiative (WRI) Greenhouse Gas Protocol Initiative,
September 2001, its Stationary and Mobile Combustion Workbooks, and the
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (1996).
We use conversion factors from the UK Department for Environment Food
and Rural Affairs to calculate CO from business air travel and air freight.
2
Energy Use From our Facilities includes all energy consumed at GSK
facilities in the form of electricity imported and steam imported and fuels
burned in fixed combustion equipment on site, including emergency
generators. Figures include fuels used to generate steam and electricity on-
site but not fuel for on-site transport. The energy consumption section of this
report includes a breakdown of energy data.
Transport includes business travel by air (including transatlantic flights
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 132between the US and UK, flights within the EU and US for routine business
activities, and flights originating in the UK to large group events such as sales
conventions), business travel by road (including company-owned vehicle
fleets, primarily our global sales fleet), and product freight by air. The increase
in global warming potential from transport since 2001 is mainly because we
have improved our reporting systems to more comprehensively collect
transport data. For example, the 2001 data did not include business air travel
within the EU and US and did not include UK and international sales fleet
miles.
The data do not include employee travel to work. We do not collect data for other
modes of business travel including rail and bus. We do not calculate CO emissions
2
from road, rail or sea freight transport because our central data collection system is
not as robust in these areas and the impacts are small when compared to those of air
freight transport. The transport section of this report includes a breakdown of
transport data.
Compounds that contribute to global warming are used in the production of
metered dose inhalers and in some ancillary equipment. They include CFCs and
HCFCs (which also deplete the ozone layer) and HFCs (which do not deplete the
ozone layer). The ozone depletion section of this report contains a breakdown of
ozone depleting gases. The data does not include CFCs released from patient use of
metered dose inhalers.
Other is CO equivalents from waste treatment and fermentation.
2
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 133Environment 11.2.1
Energy Consumption
Energy use from our facilities accounts for 66% of GSK’s global warming
impact. In 2004, we used 19 million gigajoules of energy – equivalent to the
energy consumed in one year by approximately 236,000 UK households. This
produced emissions of 1,750 million kg CO . We bought 41% of our energy as
2
electricity and a small amount (1%) as municipal steam or hot water. The rest
was generated from fuel combustion on-site.
In 2004 we developed a draft position statement on our future use of energy,
which will be finalised in 2005. This was in response to feedback showing that
energy use is a key area of concern among our stakeholders. The draft
position sets out a strategy for reducing greenhouse gas emissions through
energy efficiency, renewable energy and emissions trading. It also
acknowledges that climate change may affect disease patterns and proposes
that GSK should support research to help society plan for the consequences
of climate change.
In 2004, we continued to work on a number of energy efficiency initiatives. For
example, in the UK GSK partnered with the Carbon Trust to reduce energy
consumption through energy audits and raising employees’ awareness. In the US we
joined the Energy Star programme which encourages businesses to increase their
energy efficiency and share best practice.
In the UK, we installed two wind turbines at our Barnard Castle facility.
A number of our UK sites are participating in the government's emissions
trading scheme (ETS) - helping us to gain experience in carbon trading. The
UK ETS is a voluntary scheme which rewards companies that improve energy
efficiency with reductions in the tax they pay on energy consumption. Sites
that keep emissions below an agreed target can bank the spare credits to
help with compliance in subsequent years or can sell the credits to other
participants in the scheme. By the end of 2004, GSK had banked more than
50,000 carbon credits which can be used to help us keep within targets in the
future. We plan to participate in the EU Emissions Trading Scheme which
began at the start of 2005. We estimate that more than 50% of our carbon
dioxide emissions from energy worldwide will be regulated under the EU
Scheme.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 134Performance
Energy consumption (excluding transport)
25 100%
94.1%
92.7% 93.1%
92.0%
20.5
20.0 19.9
20 19.0
15
10
5
0
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005
targets
Non-transportfuels
Electricityimported
Steam imported
Per unit sales as percentage
of 2001 baseline
Energy Consumption by Business (Excluding Transport)
R&D
2001
Biologicals 2002
2003
2004
Consumer
Healthcare
New Product
and Global Supply
Regional
Pharma Supply
Primary Supply &
Antibiotics
Commercial
Other
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8
(million gigajoules)
Total energy consumption decreased by 4.5% since 2003 (7.3% since 2001).
Energy consumption per unit sales increased by 0.4% since 2003. However, it
decreased by 6.9% since 2001, so we expect to meet our 2005 target of an
8% reduction per unit sales since 2001.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 135Global warming potential from energy (Excluding Transport)
100%
93.9%
92.8% 93.1%
92.0%
1,892
1,839 1,833
1,750
targets
Electricity
Non-transportfuels
Steamimported
Per unit sales as percentage
of 2001 baseline
Global warming potential from energy by Business
(Excluding Transport)
R&D
2001
Biologicals 2002
2003
2004
Consumer
Healthcare
New Product
and Global Supply
Regional
Pharma Supply
Primary Supply
and Antibiotics
Commercial
Other
0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700
(million kg CO equivalent)
2
Total global warming potential from energy use at our facilities decreased by
4.5% since 2003 (7.5% since 2001). Global warming potential per unit sales
increased by 0.3% since 2003 (a decrease of 6.9% since 2001) – meaning we
are on track to meet our 2005 target of an 8% reduction per unit sales since
2001.
Sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxides
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 136In 2004, 109,905 kilograms of NO and 408,897 kilograms of SO were
x 2
emitted. These figures have been calculated from the coal that is used at
some GSK manufacturing plants as an energy source.
Note to Energy Charts
Energy consumption at our facilities is defined as all energy consumed in the
form of electricity imported and steam imported and fuels burned in fixed
combustion equipment on site, including emergency generators. Figures
include fuels used to generate steam and electricity on-site but not fuel for on-
site transport.
The global warming potential from energy use at our facilities is calculated
using conversion factors from the World Business Council For Sustainable
Development (WBCSD) / World Resources Initiative (WRI) Greenhouse Gas
Protocol Initiative, September 2001, its Stationary and Mobile Combustion
Workbooks, and the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (1996).
The NO and SO are calculated from the coal used at some GSK facilities,
X 2
primarily in India for energy purposes, using conversion factors from the
National Atmospheric Emissions Inventory (UK national methodology).
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 137Environment 11.2.2
Transport
We estimate that transport accounts for 7.9% of our total global warming
impact. In 2004 we emitted approximately 209 million kilograms of CO from
2
transport.
Business air travel accounts for over half (54%) of our travel-related CO
2
emissions. In 2004, employees travelled a total of 771 million kilometres by
plane – resulting in 114 million kg of CO emissions. This includes
2
transatlantic flights between the US and UK, and flights within the EU and US
for routine business activities, as well as travel originating in the UK related to
large group events such as sales conventions.
In 2004, our global sales fleet (excluding the UK) drove a total of 656 million
kilometres on business travel – resulting in 82 million kg of CO .
2
In addition to business travel, we also transport products from our manufacturing
plants to distributors. In 2004, GSK products were transported a total of 152 million
kilometres - the majority (81%) by air freight. We estimate that the air freight resulted
in 13.9 million kg of CO . We do not calculate CO emissions from road, rail or sea
2 2
freight transport because our central data collection system is not as robust in these
areas and the impacts are small when compared to those of air freight transport.
We have "green travel plans" at a number of sites which encourage employees to
reduce the environmental impact of their travel to work. For example, at GSK House
in Brentford, the UK, privileged parking spaces are given to car-sharers and drivers
of fuel efficient cars, buses run to and from the local train station, while changing
rooms and showers are provided for cyclists as well as discounts for bicycle
equipment and repairs.
We encourage employees to use video and teleconferencing where possible to
reduce air travel. Virtual meeting software is available to employees for making
presentations. Email and our internal messaging system are widely used, although it
is difficult to quantify the impact of these on reducing business travel.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 138Performance
Global Warming Potential from Transport
250
209.9
200
185.3
181.1
150
123.6
100
50
0
2001 2002 2003 2004
Businesstravelbyroad
Businesstravelbyair
Productfreightbyair
Total global warming potential from transport increased by 15.9% since 2003
(69.8% since 2001). The increase since 2001 is mainly because we have
improved our reporting systems to more comprehensively collect transport
data. For example, the 2001 data did not include business air travel within the
EU and US and it did not include the UK and international sales fleet miles.
We estimate we are still underestimating our global warming potential from
transport because we do not have a robust system to collect the UK sales
fleet travel or group air travel not originating in the UK.
Note to Transport Chart
Data for business air travel includes transatlantic flights between the US and
UK, flights within the EU and US for routine business activities, and flights
originating in the UK to large group events such as sales conventions.
Data for business travel by road is our global sales fleet except the UK sales
fleet. We do not collect data for other modes of business travel including rail
and bus.
The CO from air freight covers all global routes. We do not calculate CO emissions
2 2
from road, rail or sea freight transport because our central data collection system is
not as robust in these areas and the impacts are small when compared to those of air
freight transport.
We use conversion factors from the UK Department for Environment Food
and Rural Affairs to calculate CO from business air travel and air freight.
2
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 139Environment 11.3
Water
Water is a valuable natural resource that needs to be conserved and
protected from pollution. Water conservation is particularly important in areas
where water shortages are common.
GSK uses water in manufacturing (eg for processes, products, cooling and
cleaning) and for general site uses including food services and sanitation. We
operate in several areas of the world that are classified as water-stressed. We
have 47 sites in water stressed areas, of which 31 are in areas classified as
highly stressed by the World Resources Institute.
In 2004, we used 20.5 million cubic metres of water – a decrease of 10.9%
since 2003 (23.8% since 2001). Water consumption per unit sales decreased
by 6.3% since 2003 (23.3% since 2001) – meaning we have exceeded our
2005 target of a 10% reduction per unit sales since 2001.
In 2004, we generated 13.9 million cubic metres of wastewater. 15% of this
was reused, recovered or recycled.
We assess the quality of our wastewater by measuring the chemical oxygen
demand (COD) - the oxygen required to chemically oxidise organic and
inorganic compounds present in the water. Total COD decreased by 15.0%
since 2003 (24.5% since 2001). COD per unit sales decreased by 10.8%
since 2003 (24.2% since 2001) – meaning we are on track to meet our 2005
target of a 30% reduction per unit sales since 2001.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 140Environment 11.3.1
Water Use
In 2004, we used 20.5 million cubic metres of water – equivalent to the water
used in one year by approximately 80,000 UK households. This was sourced
from municipal water supplies (60.5%), wells / boreholes (39.0%), and other
sources (0.5%).
All five of our sites in India use processed wastewater for watering plants and
trees, which help provide shade, improve the appearance of the site, and also
a source of food for employees. They do not discharge any wastewater to
water bodies or to municipal sewers. Our site in Xochimilco, Mexico uses
processed wastewater for watering gardens around the site, washing
vehicles, windows and other uses not requiring drinking water. Our sites in
Turkey and the Philippines also reuse all wastewater.
Performance
Water Consumption
30 100% 90.0%
87.4%
26.9 81.9%
25 24.4 76.7%
23.0
20.5
20
15
10
5
0
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005
targets
Wells/boreholes
Municipal sources
Other*
Per unit sales as percentage
of 2001 baseline
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 141Water Consumption by Business
R&D
2001
Biologicals 2002
2003
2004
Consumer
Healthcare
New Product
and Global Supply
Regional
Pharma Supply
Primary Supply
and Antibiotics
Commercial
Other
0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14
(million cubic metres)
Total water consumption decreased by 10.9% since 2003 (23.8% since 2001).
Water consumption per unit sales decreased by 6.3% since 2003 (23.3%
since 2001) – meaning we have exceeded our 2005 target of a 10% reduction
per unit sales since 2001.
Note to Water Use Charts
Water use includes water sourced from wells/boreholes, municipal and other
sources (mainly wastewater from external industrial sources).
The data include water used in manufacturing processes and for general sites
uses, as well as water incorporated into products.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 142Environment 11.3.2
Wastewater
In 2004, we generated 13.9 million cubic metres of wastewater from our
manufacturing processes and various site operations.
15% of total wastewater was reused, recovered or recycled. All of our five
sites in India have implemented “zero wastewater” discharge programmes –
reusing and recycling all wastewater. Another three sites (in Mexico, the
Philippines and Turkey) also reuse all wastewater.
We assess the quality of our wastewater by measuring the chemical oxygen
demand (COD) - the oxygen required to chemically oxidise organic and
inorganic compounds present in the water.
One site in Brasov, Romania was fined 24,333,400 ROL (£409) by the local
water company for exceeding the COD limit.
Performance
Wastewater volume
25
21.2
20
17.8
17.4
15.7
15
10
5
0
2001 2002 2003 2004
* 2.1 million cubic metres to river
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 143Wastewater Volume by Business
R&D
2001
Biologicals
2002
2003
Consumer 2004
Healthcare
New Product
and Global Supply
Regional
Pharma Supply
Primary Supply
and Antibiotics
Commercial
Other
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
(million cubic metres)
Total wastewater volume decreased by 9.2% since 2003 (28.4% since 2001).
Wastewater Chemical oxygen demand
30 100%
27.8 88.2%
85.0%
75.8%
25.4 70.0%
25 24.7
21.0
20
15
10
5
0
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005
targets
Per unit sales as percentage
of 2001 baseline
* includes reused/recovered/recycled, on-site irrigation and incineration
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 144Wastewater Chemical Oxygen Demand by Business
R&D
Biologicals
2001
Consumer 2002
Healthcare 2003
2004
Newproduct
andglobalsupply
Regional
Pharmasupply
Primary Supply
& Antibiotics
Commercial
Other
0 5 10 15 20 25
(million kg)
Total COD decreased by 15.0% since 2003 (24.5% since 2001). Most of the
decrease in 2004 was because our site at Ulverston, UK, outsourced a
fermentation process. COD per unit sales decreased by 10.8% since 2003
(24.2% since 2001) – meaning we are on track to meet our 2005 target of a
30% reduction per unit sales since 2001.
Note to Wastewater and COD Charts
Wastewater volume includes all manufacturing and site process wastewater
as well as sanitary and food service wastewater.
Wastewater quality is measured by Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) which
is a measure of the oxygen required to chemically oxidise organic and
inorganic compounds present in the water.
The COD is measured when wastewater leaves our sites, following any on-
site treatment.
In 2002, we began to ask our sites to submit COD data following municipal
treatment. This takes into account final treatment occurring at municipal or
publicly-owned wastewater treatment works and therefore gives a better
indication of the impact of our operations on the final receiving waterways.
However, many of our sites have not submitted this data which means that
the 2004 data still primarily reflects the COD after only onsite treatment. We
will revisit this parameter and its scope as we develop our new EHS metrics
and targets in 2005.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 145Environment 11.4
Waste
Our waste includes hazardous waste (mostly waste solvents) and non-
hazardous waste (mostly general site waste). We report non-routine waste
(mostly construction and demolition waste) separately because this fluctuates
depending on building works and remediation projects.
Most of the active ingredients in our pharmaceutical products are
manufactured using synthetic chemistry processes. This means that a
significant proportion of our waste contains solvents and chemicals used in
these processes and is classified as hazardous.
In 2004, we disposed of 43.1 million kg of non-hazardous waste and 73.7
million kg of hazardous waste.
Non-hazardous waste disposed per unit sales increased by 2.8% since 2003
(but decreased by 18.8% since 2001) – meaning we have exceeded our 2005
target of an 8% reduction per unit sales since 2001.
Hazardous waste disposed per unit sales increased by 27.5% since 2003
(17.3% since 2001) – meaning we are not on track to meet our 2005 target of
a 15% reduction per unit sales since 2001. This is due to a combination of
factors which are described in the hazardous waste section.
Many of our sites have introduced waste minimisation and recycling initiatives.
In 2004, we recycled 239.2 million kg of waste (67.2% of the total waste
generated). The proportion of waste recycled decreased by 11.1% since 2003
(11.5% since 2001) – meaning we are not on track to meet our 2005 target of
a 10% increase in the proportion of waste recycled since 2001. Production
changes during 2004 led to a greater proportion of solvent waste being
blended as a fuel or incinerated and less recycled.
In 2004, a large number of projects related to waste issues – 20 in total –
were submitted for the GSK CEO EHS Excellence Awards. Our site in
Bogotá, Colombia, was awarded 1st place in the environment category of the
awards for its pharmaceutical waste bioremediation project (see case study
below).
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 146Case Study
Developing Environmentally Friendly Ways of Disposing of
Unused Pharmaceutical Products
Our consumer healthcare site in Bogotá, Colombia, has developed a system
to reduce the environmental impact of disposing of unused liquid
pharmaceutical products, including product returns or rejects.
The liquid waste is treated in reed beds. Although reed beds are becoming
increasingly popular to treat domestic and industrial wastewater, the Colombia
team are pioneers in using them to treat pharmaceutical waste.
Reeds (usually phragmites australis) planted in specially designed soil beds
provide an ideal environment for bacteria and fungi to break down hazardous
chemicals naturally into harmless components. The reeds themselves absorb
some chemicals in the waste as nutrients. In our initial trial, treating a mixture
of waste syrup and used oil, levels of chemicals in the residual water from the
reed beds fell below legal limits after 35 days.
The system replaces high temperature incineration, which is energy intensive
and does not dispose of certain wastes such as syrups effectively. Using reed
beds has reduced the cost of final disposal per kilogram of product by 60%.
Building our own reed bed treatment plant at the Bogotá site was not feasible
because there was not enough space, so the team promoted the idea of a
joint initiative with other companies. In June 2003 the waste treatment
company Transform Ecoskandia Ltda and other financial partners founded
Transform Biolodos Ltda to build the first large reed bed plant in Colombia for
industrial and public use.
The Bogotá site won first place in the environment category of our internal
awards scheme – the Chief Executive Officer’s Environment, Health and
Safety Excellence Awards. The site closed in 2004, but the reed bed
treatment plant is now used by several other major companies.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 147Environment 11.4.1
Hazardous Waste
In 2004, we disposed of 73.7 million kg of hazardous waste (excluding
demolition and construction waste). This is mostly solvents (82.6%), the rest
being general site waste (15.3%) and chemical, biological or radioactive
waste (2.0%).
In 2004, 50.2% of hazardous waste disposed was incinerated for energy
recovery, 47.5% was incinerated without energy recovery. The remaining
waste was disposed to licensed landfill sites.
Performance
Hazardous Waste Disposed Hazardous Waste Source
117.3%
100%
94.5% 80
92.0% 73.7 73.7
85.0% 70
63.2 63.2
61.9 60.9 61.9 60.9
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
targets 2001 2002 2003 2004
Incineratedwithoutenergyrecovery
Incineratedwithenergyrecovery
Landfill
Per unit sales as percentage
of 2001 baseline
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 148Hazardous Waste Disposed by Business
R&D
2001
Biologicals 2002
2003
2004
Consumer
Healthcare
New Product
and Global Supply
Regional
Pharma Supply
Primary Supply
and Antibiotics
Commercial
Other
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70
(million kg)
Total hazardous waste disposed increased by 21.0% since 2003 (16.6% since
2001). Hazardous waste disposed per unit sales increased by 27.5% since
2003 (17.3% since 2001) – meaning we are not on track to meet our 2005
target of a 15% reduction per unit sales since 2001.
Our previous trend of reducing hazardous waste per unit sales was reversed
in 2004 by a combination of factors. GSK’s hazardous waste is mostly
solvents and one plant scheduled for closure had to dispose of redundant
solvent stocks. This had a one off impact on our data. In addition, changes to
production at other plants included bringing in-house processes that were
previously undertaken by contract manufacturers. Our engineers will be
assessing how to optimise the new processes to reduce solvent use and
increase recycling.
Note to Hazardous Waste Charts
Although the external definition of what constitutes a waste varies, for GSK
reporting purposes a material is considered a waste if it is no longer fit for its
originally intended purpose.
Hazardous waste disposed includes disposal to landfill and incineration either
on or off GSK property. Incineration with energy recovery includes processes
that result in beneficial energy or resource recovery and includes a small
amount of composting. Incineration without energy recovery includes
processes that do not result in beneficial energy or resource recovery.
Hazardous waste disposed does NOT include recycling on-site or off-site or
non-routine waste.
For consistent reporting, GSK considers a waste to be hazardous if it exhibits
any of a number of properties as defined by the Basel Convention in 1989 of
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 149the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP). Included in these
properties are flammability, explosivity, water or air reactivity, corrosivity,
oxidising potential, acute or chronic toxicity, ecotoxicity or infection. In
addition, because of their nature and potential impact on research and
development activities, radioactive wastes are defined as hazardous.
Bioengineered and biohazardous waste is included in hazardous waste. A
waste is considered to be non-hazardous if it does not exhibit any of the
hazardous properties noted above.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 150Environment 11.4.2
Non-hazardous Waste
In 2004, we disposed of 43.1 million kg of non-hazardous waste (excluding
non-routine waste). This is equivalent to the waste produced by approximately
34,800 UK households. Most non-hazardous waste is general site waste such
as office waste paper, kitchen waste and non-hazardous substances used in
manufacturing.
Many sites continue to look for ways to reduce waste and have undertaken
waste management reviews.
Performance
Non-hazardous Waste Disposed Non-hazardous Waste Source
100% 60
60 92.0%
89.8% 81.2% 53.4
53.4 49.6
49.6 79.0% 50
50
44.1 43.1
44.1
43.1
40
40
30 30
20 20
10
10
0
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 0
targets 2001 2002 2003 2004
Incineratedwithoutenergyrecovery
Incineratedwithenergyrecovery
Landfill
Per unit sales as percentage
of 2001 baseline
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 151Non-hazardous Waste Disposed by Business
R&D 2001
2002
2003
Biologicals 2004
Consumer
Healthcare
New Product
and Global Supply
Regional
Pharma Supply
Primary Supply &
Antibiotics
Commercial
Other
(million kg)
Total non-hazardous waste disposed decreased by 2.3% since 2003 (19.3%
since 2001). Non-hazardous waste disposed per unit sales increased by 2.8%
since 2003 (but decreased by 18.8% since 2001) – meaning we have
exceeded our 2005 target of an 8% reduction per unit sales since 2001.
Note to Non-hazardous Waste Charts
Although the external definition of what constitutes a waste varies, for GSK
reporting purposes a material is considered a waste if it is no longer fit for its
originally intended purpose.
Non-hazardous waste disposal includes disposal to landfill and incineration
either on or off GSK property. Incineration with energy recovery includes
processes that result in beneficial energy or resource recovery and includes a
small amount of composting. Incineration without energy recovery includes
processes that do not result in beneficial energy or resource recovery. Non-
hazardous waste disposed does NOT include recycling on-site or off-site or
non-routine waste.
Biological waste rendered non-hazardous after treatment is considered a non-
hazardous waste.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 152Environment 11.4.3
Recycling
In 2004, we recycled 239.2 million kg of waste (67% of the 356 million kg of
waste generated).
Over 77% of the total waste recycled was hazardous waste, primarily
solvents.
New recycling programmes have led to significant reductions in waste at
several sites. For example, in Cidra, Puerto Rico, recycling a range of
materials has reduced non-hazardous waste disposed to landfill by 30-40%
per year. In Clifton, New Jersey, US, recycling of plastic packaging materials
has saved over 70 metric tonnes of waste per year.
Performance
Proportion of Total Waste Total Waste Recycled
Recycled 400
367.9
110%
100% 99.3% 99.6%
80 350 341.5
75.9 75.4 75.6 325.8
88.5%
70 67.2
300
60
250 239.2
50
200
40
150
30
20 100
10 50
0
0
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005
targets 2001 2002 2003 2004
Waste recycled
Per unit sales as percentage
of 2001 baseline
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 153Proportion of Total Waste Recycled by Business
R&D
2001
Biologicals 2002
2003
2004
Consumer
Healthcare
New Product
and Global Supply
Regional
Pharma Supply
Primary Supply
and Antibiotics
Commercial
Other
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100
(%)
Total waste recycled decreased by 26.6% since 2003 (35.0% since 2001).
The proportion of waste recycled decreased by 11.1% since 2003 (11.5%
since 2001) – meaning we are not on track to meet our 2005 target of a 10%
increase in the proportion of waste recycled since 2001.
Production changes during 2004 led to a greater proportion of solvent waste
being blended as a fuel or incinerated and less recycled.
Note to Recycling Charts
Waste recycled includes hazardous and non-hazardous waste (not non-
routine waste) that has been reused, recovered or recycled, on site and off
site. It includes in-process reuse of solvents.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 154Environment 11.4.4
Non-routine Waste
Non-routine waste is primarily demolition and construction waste and includes
hazardous and non-hazardous waste from site demolition and construction
activities and from small on-site remediation projects. In 2004, we disposed
(via landfill or incineration) of 6.6 million kg of non-routine waste, and recycled
6.8 million kg.
Performance
Non-Routine Waste
35
30.1
30
26.2
25.3
25
20
15
10
5
0
2001 2002 2003 2004
Incineratedwithoutenergyrecovery
Incineratedwithenergyrecovery
Landfill
Recycled
Total non-routine waste disposed decreased by 48.9% since 2003 (47.0%
since 2001). The amount of waste fluctuates each year depending on plant
upgrades and site closures.
Note to Non-Routine Waste Charts
Although the external definition of what constitutes waste varies, for GSK
reporting purposes a material is considered a waste if it is no longer fit for its
originally intended purpose.
Non-routine related waste disposal includes disposal to landfill and incineration
either on or off GSK property. Incineration with energy recovery includes
processes that result in beneficial energy or resource recovery and includes a
small amount of composting. Incineration without energy recovery includes
processes that do not result in beneficial energy or resource recovery. Non-
routine waste disposed does NOT include waste recycled on-site and off-site.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 155Environment 11.5
Ozone Depletion
The ozone layer is essential to human survival because it filters out harmful
ultra-violet (UV) rays from the sun. Ozone depleting substances (ODSs)
include chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs), hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs) and
halons.
CFCs are the main ODS we use – as the propellant gas in metered dose
inhalers (MDI) for asthma sufferers. The CFC is released when patients use
the inhaler.
In 2004, 464 thousand kilograms of CFC propellant was released when
patients used our products in the EU and US. A much smaller amount of
CFCs – 59 thousand kilograms – were released during worldwide production.
Information on CFC releases is not compiled outside the US and UK where
this is not required by regulation. We now offer a selection of alternatives to
ODS-containing inhalers in most countries and plan to eliminate the use of
ODSs from our product portfolio by 2010. See metered dose inhalers.
Ozone depletion potential from production per unit sales decreased by 67.5%
since 2001 – meaning we have exceeded our 2005 target of a 50% reduction
per unit sales since 2001.
We also use ODSs in some cooling systems and for other ancillary uses at
GSK facilities. We have switched to using hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) in some
cooling systems. HFCs do not deplete the ozone layer but do contribute to
global warming. Ozone depletion potential from ancillary use per unit sales
decreased by 60.5% since 2001, but the current trend indicates that we may
miss our 2005 target to eliminate these emissions. We plan to establish a
team in 2005 to develop a business strategy to eliminate ancillary emissions
of ODSs.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 156Environment 11.5.1
Ozone Depleting Substances in
Manufacturing
A small proportion of the CFC used to manufacture Metered Dose Inhalers
(MDIs) is released during the manufacturing process. We are working to
eliminate use of ozone depleting substances (ODSs) in MDIs by switching to
HFC and dry powder inhalers (see metered dose inhalers in this report).
Performance
Ozone Depletion Potential from Production Use
100%
0.200
0.183
0.180
0.160
63.8%
0.140
0.121 50.0%
0.120
0.100 37.4%
32.5%
0.080 0.072
0.059
0.060
0.040
0.020
0.000
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005
targets
Production
Per unit sales as percentage
of 2001 baseline
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 157Ozone Depletion Potential from Production Use by Business
R&D
2001
Biologicals 2002
2003
2004
Consumer
Healthcare
New Product
and Global Supply
Regional
Pharma Supply
Primary Supply &
Antibiotics
Commercial
Other
0 20 40 60 80 100 120
(thousand kg CFC-11 equivalent)
Ozone depleting substances released from production activities
Substance Kg Factor Ozone Depletion Potential
CFC11/R11 12,634 1 12,634
CFC12/R12 46,304 1 46,304
1,1,1 TRICHLOROETHANE 265 0.1 27
METHYL BROMIDE 590 0.6 354
Total ozone depletion potential from production decreased by 18.1% since
2003 (67.8% since 2001). Ozone depletion potential from production per unit
sales decreased by 13.1% since 2003 (67.5% since 2001) – meaning we
have exceeded our 2005 target of a 50% reduction per unit sales since 2001.
As production of CFC-containing MDIs decreases, the amount of CFC lost
during production also declines. We will no longer manufacture CFC-
containing MDIs in the US after 2005 and in Europe after 2006. We will
continue to manufacture them in Bangladesh, China, India and Pakistan until
the end of 2009.
Note to Ozone Depletion Potential Charts
We report ozone depletion potential in CFC-11 equivalents as defined by the
United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) Ozone Secretariat
(www.ghgprotocol.org and www.ipcc.ch)
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 158Environment 11.5.2
Ozone Depleting Substances in Ancillary
Equipment
We use ozone depleting substances (ODSs) primarily in cooling systems. We
have switched to using hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) in some ancillary
equipment. HFCs do not deplete the ozone layer but do contribute to global
warming.
ODSs – mainly HCFCs - are sealed inside cooling systems and are only
released in the event of a leak or during maintenance.
We plan to establish a team in 2005 to develop a business strategy to
eliminate ancillary emissions of ODSs. This will closely monitor equipment
and put in place recommendations on alternative refrigerants and new
equipment.
Performance
Ozone Depletion Potential from Ancillary Use
103.8%
100%
0.0064
0.0059
36.3% 39.5%
0.00230.0023
0%
targets
Ancillary
Per unit sales as percentage
of 2001 baseline
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 159Ozone Depletion Potential from Ancillary Use by Business
R&D
2001
Biologicals 2002
2003
2004
Consumer
Healthcare
New Product
and Global Supply
Regional
Pharma Supply
Primary Supply
and Antibiotics
Commercial
Other
0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5 3 3.5 4
(thousand kg CFC-11 equivalent)
Ozone depleting substances released from ancillary activities
Substance Kg Factor Ozone Depletion Potential
CFC11/R11 934 1 934
CFC12/R12 314 1 314
HFC22/R22 16,355 0.055 900
HFC123/R123 239 0.02 5
R403a 56 0.055 3
R408a/FX10 351 0.055 19
R409a/FX56 262 0.048 13
R502 136 1 136
R503 1 1 1
Total ozone depletion potential from ancillary use did not change from 2003
(but decreased by 61.0% since 2001). Ozone depletion potential from
ancillary use per unit sales increased by 8.8% since 2003 (but decreased by
60.5% since 2001).
The current trend indicates that we may miss our 2005 target to eliminate
ozone depleting emissions from ancillary use. It has not proved possible to
eliminate all emissions during servicing and maintenance of cooling
equipment. This means that we need to upgrade or replace equipment to use
non-ozone depleting gases. New cooling systems are being introduced –
which don’t use ozone depleting gases. However, we will not have upgraded
or replaced all equipment by 2005.
Note to Ozone Depletion Potential Charts
We report ozone depletion potential in CFC-11 equivalents as defined by the
United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) Ozone Secretariat
(www.ghgprotocol.org and www.ipcc.ch)
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 160Environment 11.6
Volatile Organic Compounds
We use volatile organic compounds (VOCs) mainly as solvents in our primary
manufacturing operations. In 2004, we released 5.45 million kilograms of
VOCs to the atmosphere.
VOCs react with nitrogen oxides in the presence of sunlight, creating ozone in
the lower atmosphere. This results in smog, which is a factor in human
respiratory illness. Workplace exposure to certain VOCs can also pose a
health risk.
Performance
Volatile Organic Compounds Emitted to Air
100% 94.1%
91.5%
7.00 6.81
6.64
6.52 80.4%
6.00
5.45
70.0%
5.00
4.00
3.00
2.00
1.00
0.00
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005
targets
VOC
Per unit sales as percentage
of 2001 baseline
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 161Volatile Organic Compounds Emitted to Air by Business
R&D
2001
Biologicals 2002
2003
2004
Consumer
Healthcare
New Product
and Global Supply
Regional
Pharma Supply
Primary Supply
and Antibiotics
Commercial
Other
0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5 3 3.7 4 4.5 5
(million kg)
Photochemical Ozone Creation Potential
2.5
2.2 2.2 2.2
2.0
1.8
1.5
1.0
0.5
0.0
2001 2002 2003 2004
Total VOCs emitted to air decreased by 16.4% since 2003 (20.0% since
2001). VOCs emitted to air per unit sales decreased by 12.1% since 2003
(19.6% since 2001) – meaning we are on track to meet our 2005 target of a
30% reduction per unit sales since 2001.
Photochemical ozone creation potential decreased by 19.3% since 2003
(17.8% since 2001).
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 162Note to VOC Charts
Emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) are measured at GSK
manufacturing operations and research and development facilities, including
fugitive sources such as evaporation and leaks.
VOCs react with nitrogen oxides in the presence of sunlight, creating ozone in
the lower atmosphere. This results in smog, which is a factor in human
respiratory illness. We report photochemical ozone creation potential (POCP)
in ethylene equivalents. Conversion to ethylene equivalents is based on the
European Chemical Industry Council (CEFIC) “Responsible Care HSE
Reporting Guidelines” for VOCs (1998).
Case Study
Reducing Solvent Emissions at Ulverston, UK
We use a wide-range of solvents (volatile organic compounds) in the
manufacture of Epivir (an antiretroviral), Zinacef and Zinnat (cephalosporin
antibiotics) at our site in Ulverston, UK.
We endeavour to use these solvents in a sustainable manner and over 20,000
tonnes of solvent are recovered each year at the Ulverston site for re-use in
the manufacturing processes.
We have been working for a number of years to reduce releases of all
solvents, including dichloromethane, at the site. In February 2003, the site
produced a Solvent Management Plan and Substitution Plan – in line with the
requirements of new EU regulations. These were updated in July 2004.
The site is authorised under the UK Environmental Protection Act 1990 to
release a maximum of 1,000 tonnes of dichloromethane to air. In 2004,
emissions to air totalled 269 tonnes – well below the limit and a reduction of
33% compared with 2003. Over the same period releases of other VOCs
reduced by 10% and have declined by 30% over the last five-years. Our
target is to reduce emissions of dichloromethane to air to less than 190
tonnes in 2005 and 80 tonnes in 2006.
In 2004, we also reduced the amount of dichloromethane discharged into
water by 80% compared with 2003. We aim to reduce this amount to below
one tonne in 2005 and below 0.1 tonnes in 2006.
Dichloromethane continues to be used in enclosed equipment and regular
monitoring of employees ensures their exposure levels remain low. The levels
of all solvents, including dichloromethane, found around the edge of the site
are well below guide limits set by the Environment Agency for England and
Wales.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 163Environment 11.7
Product Stewardship
As well as managing environmental issues at our factories, we look more
widely at the life-cycle of our products – from product design to use and
eventual disposal. We call this product stewardship.
This section focuses on:
• Product design – how we are incorporating environmental
considerations into the design of new products.
• Pharmaceuticals in the environment – what we are doing to understand
and minimise the impact of pharmaceuticals released to the
environment (following use).
• CFCs in metered dose inhalers – how we are progressing against our
target to eliminate the use of CFCs (an ozone depleting gas) from our
product portfolio by 2010.
There are a number of other environmental issues associated with our
products, including the use of genetically modified organisms and the use of
natural resources which may impact on biodiversity. See more on our
approach to biodiversity and genetically modified organisms in the GSK
website.. The research and development section of this report covers our
approach to animal testing.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 164Environment 11.7.1
Product Design
We are working to incorporate environmental considerations into the design of
new products. This helps us to reduce waste and improve process efficiency.
Our eco-design toolkit alerts us to potential EHS issues early in the
development process. It includes a green chemistry guide, materials guide,
green packaging guide, and FLASC (Fast lifecycle assessment for synthetic
chemistry). It is available on our intranet.
In 2004, we made further progress in integrating our EHS Milestone Aligned
Process (EHS MAP) into our product development and supply processes,
including our “design for manufacturing” initiative. Approximately 650
employees in R&D and manufacturing attended training sessions on the EHS
Map Process during the year. See business processes for more about EHS
Map.
See more on our approach to product design in the GSK website..
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 165Environment 11.7.2
Pharmaceuticals in the Environment
When patients use pharmaceuticals, some of the active ingredient may not be
completely metabolised and will generally be excreted. Wastewater treatment
plants remove most pharmaceutical residues in the environment, but small
concentrations do end up in rivers or the sea. In areas without wastewater
treatment, higher concentrations are released to the environment.
In 2004, following consultation with external stakeholders, we developed a
draft position statement on pharmaceuticals in the environment. This will be
completed in 2005.
Internally, we have developed business processes to ensure that we carry out
appropriate environmental tests as and when we should. Since environmental
risk assessments (ERAs) are part of the new drug approval process in the EU
and US, we work with various regulatory agencies to ensure that the potential
environmental impacts of pharmaceuticals are understood and minimised. We
also work with other pharmaceutical companies, universities and research
groups to develop the science and methodologies to assess the
environmental risks of pharmaceuticals in the environment and increase
understanding of such risks. For example, in the US, GSK has been involved
with the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA) in
developing the PhATE (Pharmaceutical Assessment and Transport
Evaluation) model, a geographically explicit model based on hydrology and
population patterns. See more on our approach to pharmaceuticals in the
environment in the GSK website.
In 2004, we initiated more comprehensive environmental risk assessments
using the PhATE™ model for about 40 active pharmaceutical ingredients
(APIs), including paroxetine (the active ingredient in Paxil/Seroxat). These
assessments will be published on our website. The underlying environmental
fate and effects test data for pharmaceutically active components of GSK
marketed products are now being embedded in Safety Data Sheets (SDS).
These are available on our website at www.msds-gsk.com.
The risk assessments carried out to date indicate that our products do not
appear to pose a risk for humans or the environment based on current
methods for ascertaining effect levels. However, we continue to monitor the
latest scientific studies and findings to improve our risk assessments in this
area.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 166Environment 11.7.3
Metered Dose Inhalers
Metered dose inhalers (MDIs) were first introduced in the 1950s and are used
as one of the main forms of treatment for asthma sufferers. They are
pressurised, hand-held devices that use propellants to deliver doses of
medication to the lungs of patients. CFCs were traditionally used as the
propellant because they are non-toxic, non-reactive, non-flammable, odour
and taste free.
When a patient uses the MDI, the propellant is released into the atmosphere.
In 2004, 464 thousand kilograms of CFC propellant were released when
patients used our products in the EU and US. A much smaller proportion of
CFCs - 59 thousand kilograms - escaped during production (see ozone
depleting substances in manufacturing in the GSK website.).
Although the Montreal Protocol bans the production of CFCs, it does
recognise a number of “essential uses” which are exempt from the ban. MDIs
fall under the essential use exemption and are therefore still allowed to be
manufactured.
We plan to eliminate the use of CFCs from our product portfolio by 2010. We
now offer a selection of alternatives to CFC-containing MDIs in most
countries. The main alternative propellant we use is HFC 134a. We have also
invested heavily in dry powder delivery systems that do not use CFCs. We
estimate that the total amount we have spent on new plant and R&D on CFC-
alternatives is over £550 million ($1 billion) since we identified this as an issue
in the 1980s.
We are also researching alternatives to HFC134a, which has a high global
warming potential.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 167Performance
2.000
1.900
1.800
1.600
1.500
1.400
1.200
1.000
0.782
0.800
0.600
0.464
0.400
0.200
0.000
2001 2002 2003 2004
Ozone depletion potential from patient use of metered dose inhalers
decreased by 40.7% since 2003 (75.6% since 2001).
Note to Ozone Depletion Potential Charts
We report ozone depletion potential in CFC-11 equivalents as defined by the
United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) Ozone Secretariat
(www.ghgprotocol.org and www.ipcc.ch).
The data only include EU and US.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 168Environment 11.8
Suppliers
Our supply chain is complex. It ranges from major strategic relationships with
contract manufacturers that make final medicines for us to suppliers of key
materials.
We have EHS standards for suppliers. We also include EHS requirements,
based on the standards, in our initial agreements with new key suppliers and
when we renew contracts.
We conduct regular EHS audits of our key suppliers to assess performance
against our EHS standards and key legislation. We also carry out EHS audits
before we start working with major new suppliers. We select which suppliers
to audit on the basis of risk, including potential hazards. (The audits also
cover basic questions on human rights. See human rights and suppliers in the
GSK website.)
In 2004, we carried out 35 site-based EHS audits. Sixteen of the audits were
in Asia, eleven in Europe, six in the US, one in Canada and one in Mexico.
We also carried out four follow-up reviews.
We found a wide variation in performance across the sites audited. The
lowest score was 22% and the highest was 92%. We make recommendations
to sites following the audits and have a process to monitor progress, with a
particular focus on poorly performing sites.
In 2004, three potential suppliers achieved unacceptable EHS scores (less
than 30%) and therefore we did not source from them. No existing supplier
scored below 30%.
In 2004, we developed an action pack for use by our procurement managers
to help them identify the EHS risks associated with procurement activities.
In the US, we signed up to Green Suppliers Network (GSN) – a programme
run by the US Environment Protection Agency to help small and medium
sized suppliers to reduce their environmental impact. In 2005, we will
encourage our suppliers to participate in the project.
Key Audit Findings
Environment
We found the basic elements of an environmental management system at all
of the sites we audited and 50% of the chemical sites were certified to the
international environmental management standard ISO14001. Most sites had
a good understanding of environmental regulations and positive relationships
with regulators.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 169In China and India, we generally found a high level of compliance with
regulations and effective management of waste water. However, the lack of
infrastructure in these countries presents challenges. For example, the waste
disposal options are limited and electricity is generated mainly from coal or
poor-quality oil. We also found that air emissions were poorly controlled in a
few cases.
Health and Safety
We found that health and safety was generally well managed at sites in
Europe and North America. However, we identified some challenges in
emerging economies, especially in areas relating to fire prevention and
response, occupational hygiene and control of chemical exposure,
identification of hazards and risks, and systems for reporting and investigating
incidents.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 170Environment 11.8.1
Supplier Performance
We have approximately 80 centrally managed key suppliers, which include
both contract manufacturers and suppliers of materials.
We are working towards quantifying the environmental impact of our contract
manufacturers. This is a more difficult process than collecting data from our
own sites because contract manufacturers are independently managed.
In 2004 we collected data from 14 major contract manufacturers for some
core EHS parameters. The contract manufacturers produced 6,185,459
kilograms of product for GSK (including raw materials, primary and secondary
manufacturing and secondary packaging). They disposed 37.8 million
kilograms of hazardous waste and 4.9 million kilograms of non-hazardous
waste. They used 541,535 gigajoules of energy related to energy and
transport activities (146,737 gigajoules of electricity, 392,673 gigajoules of
other non-transport fuels, and 2,125 gigajoules of transport fuels). Data from
these companies are not included in any of the charts and they are not
included in the verification by ERM.
See health and safety of suppliers and contractors.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 171Environment 11.9
Compliance
As a minimum, we aim to comply with legal requirements on environment,
health and safety.
Environmental Fines and Penalties
• Brasov, Romania - 24,333,400 ROL (approximately £409) from local
water company for exceeding COD limit
• Zebulon, US - $100 (approximately £55) from local wastewater
authority for exceeding permitted discharge limit for cyanide
• Clifton, US - 4 notices of violation without fines for pH excursions, one
of which occurred in 2003
• Zebulon, US - 2 notices of violation without fines for pH, 1 for mercury,
1 for cyanide
• Memphis, US - Hazardous waste inspection resulted in 3 minor
violations.
• Ware GMS, UK - unlicensed discharge from IPC AL7014 licensed
processes
Health and Safety Fines and Penalties
• Clifton, US - $900 (approximately £500) OSHA fine for machine
guarding incident
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 172Environment 11.10
Verification Statement
ERM (Environmental Resources Management Limited) was asked by GSK to
independently review the environment, health and safety (EHS) sections of its
2004 Corporate Responsibility report (at Section 2 ‘Employment Practice’ and
Section 11 ‘Caring for the Environment’) and supporting background
information provided at GSK.com.
This is the fourth year that ERM has verified GSK’s EHS reporting. The
objectives of our review were to: check that the information presented is
accurate, and that it represents GSK’s performance fairly; critically review the
completeness and relevance of the information presented; and, assess the
effectiveness of GSK’s data management systems. All pages that contain
verified EHS data are marked with the following symbol
We have focused on understanding GSK’s EHS data management and
reporting processes and EHS performance. The assessment covered 22
percent of GSK manufacturing sites and 17 percent of the R&D facilities,
expanding ERM’s coverage of sites compared to 2003.
Overall Findings
Subject to the comments and scope set out below, we believe GSK’s
Corporate Responsibility report covers the key EHS issues that interested
parties need to know to inform decision making (i.e. is relevant), does not
avoid major issues (i.e. is complete) and fairly reflects programmes and
performance on the ground (i.e. is accurate).
ERM Scope
Between November 2004 and March 2005, ERM:
1. Reviewed EHS data management and reporting processes, and
performance changes, at a cross-section of sites, through four site visits
and 20 telephone interviews.
2. Interviewed personnel responsible for data collation in Corporate EHS
(CEHS) and checked sample group data;
3. Interviewed corporate representatives to obtain supporting information
on the following EHS programmes: acquisitions and divestitures,
contaminated land, climate change and ozone depleting potential,
auditing of suppliers and contract manufacturers, and EHS reporting by
the Commercial business support team;
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 1734. Participated in the final CEHS data-checking and review process
undertaken after the sites had submitted all EHS data; and
5. Checked that the EHS sections of the 2004 Corporate Responsibility
report reflect our findings.
Findings
Relevance and Completeness
Overall, the EHS sections of the 2004 Corporate Responsibility report cover
the key issues that are relevant to GSK’s business.
Each year, ERM makes recommendations for improvement. In response to
an ERM recommendation made in the Sustainability in Environment, Health &
Safety report 2003, GSK has attempted to collect information on the reasons
for changes in site EHS performance. ERM has noted improvement to GSK’s
reporting of the reasons for performance change in the 2004 EHS report
sections.
We have also noted progress made in 2004 in relation to GSK’s reporting of
transport-related greenhouse gas emissions.
In 2004 GSK obtained EHS performance data from 14 contract manufacturers
(versus seven in 2003), as part of its effort to quantify GSK’s broader ‘EHS
footprint’. GSK has focused on collecting key EHS indicator data from
business-critical contract manufacturers (this data was not verified by ERM).
Accuracy
This year, corporate data checking processes have been strengthened to
increase the quality of the data, through involvement of additional GSK
personnel and ERM’s participation in the final checking process. GSK also
observed ERM’s verification process at one site visit. Next year, GSK
proposes to use its myEHS database system to track data-checking actions
with each site.
During 2004, we have seen examples of increased reporting of illness and
injury data by sites, which may in part be due to improved awareness as a
result of the introduction of the myEHS ‘Incidents’ database. Associated
training has been provided to GSK personnel at approximately 100 sites.
ERM identified three material data inaccuracies relating to wastewater quality
(COD), wastewater volume, and production use of ozone depleting
substances. These were subsequently addressed by GSK to ensure accurate
reporting in the 2004 Corporate Responsibility report.
ERM identified potentially material under-reporting of EHS data (in particular
injury and illness data) by GSK’s Commercial business, which includes office-
based and field sales-force staff.
Responsiveness
GSK has reported that stakeholders would like GSK to prepare a combined
Corporate Responsibility report incorporating EHS and would like to better
understand management and performance of a number of non-financial
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 174issues. In response, GSK has produced this single web-based Corporate
Responsibility report, and is in the process of preparing position papers on a
selection of issues (e.g. climate change).
Recommendations
ERM recommends that GSK:
• Builds on work undertaken in 2004 to strengthen internal reporting
processes, better understand the reasons for EHS performance changes
and enable more consistent and explicit external reporting;
• Further improves collection and reporting of performance data from
contract manufacturers and suppliers, focussing on those which are
business critical and those with the greatest EHS risk profile;
• Improves the accuracy of environmental key performance data by more
comprehensively checking completeness of data reported by the
operations;
• Supports key operations to more accurately monitor material flows and
discharges related to key environmental performance indicators;
• Assesses the potential for material data inaccuracies resulting from
under-reporting by GSK’s Commercial operations and puts in place
improvement programmes to obtain a more complete data set; and
• Reviews the limitations of EHS performance data, in particular the
potential scale of statistical uncertainty for target-related key EHS
performance data, including transport derived emissions of greenhouse
gases.
ERM
March 2005
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 175Environment 11.11
Progress Towards Targets
Our EHS Plan for Excellence sets out a strategy to improve our performance
over the ten-year period to 2010, starting from a 2001 baseline. This includes
interim targets to be reached by the end of 2005.
We are on track to meet seven of our ten targets. These cover some of our
most important environmental issues, including energy and water
consumption, ozone depleting potential, global warming potential, wastewater
quality, volatile organic compound emissions and non-hazardous waste. We
may not achieve the three targets on hazardous waste, recycling and ozone
depletion potential of ancillary equipment by the end of 2005. A fuller
explanation of our performance is provided on the relevant pages of this
report. Next year we will set new targets for 2010.
Our group targets are based on improvement plans and forecasts from our
sites. During the year, we asked all our sites to reconfirm their commitment to
the 2005 targets they set in 2001. See more on our approach to setting
targets.
This is a summary of our environmental performance per unit of sales. The
graph shows the overall improvement (%) since 2001 and our 2005 targets.
Performance Summary
(expressed as a % change from a 2001 baseline)
EnergyConsumption
120
Non-hazardous
100 GlobalWarming
WasteDisposed
PotentialEnergy
80
60
Hazardous
WasteDisposed 40 ODPAncillary
20
0
ReductioninWasteDisposed
dueto Recycling* ODPProduction
COD VOCs
WaterConsumption
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 176MANAGING CR
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 17712.Managing
corporate
responsibility
12.1 Our CR
principles
Management 12
Managing Corporate Responsibility
Governance
GSK’s Corporate Responsibility Committee consists of non-executive
directors and provides a Board-level forum for the regular review of external
issues that have the potential for serious impact upon GSK’s business and for
the oversight of reputation management. It provides high-level guidance on
our approach to all CR issues. During 2004 the Committee met three times
and reviewed our activity in a number of areas including:
• Access to medicines
• Research and development for the disease of the developing world
• Charitable giving
• Committee effectiveness
GSK’s Risk Oversight and Compliance Council co-ordinates internal control
and management of significant risks to our business. The Council considers
reputational and corporate responsibility risks.
For more information on the CRC and Council, including the Terms of
Reference for the CRC see Corporate Governance
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 178Integration of CR Skills
We believe that day-to-day management of corporate responsibility
performance is done most effectively within our business operations, where
experts on all our CR issues work.
Coordination is provided by a cross-functional team, made up of
representatives from key business areas. Their role is to oversee
development, implementation and communication of CR policy across GSK.
This ensures a comprehensive and consistent approach is taken throughout
the organisation.
We also have a small corporate team that co-ordinates policy development,
reporting, and communication with socially responsible investment analysts.
For details of our EH&S management see EHS Management.
Stakeholder Engagement
We have frequent discussions with a range of stakeholders, including
employees, shareholders, patients, doctors, governments and NGOs, to
inform our approach to managing corporate responsibility. See Engagement
With Stakeholders.
We have developed Corporate Responsibility principles to guide our activity
(see Our CR principles), and in this report we explain our performance against
each principle during 2004.
We use external guidelines and frameworks where relevant. This report
includes an index based on the GRI Guidelines to aid comparison with other
company reports, see GRI Index.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 179CR Committee Members
Sir Christopher Gent (Chairman of CR Committee)
Sir Christopher is the former Chief Executive Officer of Vodafone Group Plc. He is a
non-executive director of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc; a director of the International
Advisory Board of Hakluyt & Co; and is a Senior Adviser at Bain & Co.
Sir Ian Prosser
Sir Ian was formerly a non-executive Director of SmithKline Beecham plc. He was
Chairman and Chief Executive of Bass plc (latterly InterContinental Hotel plc) and
Chairman of the World Travel & Tourism Council. He is non-executive Deputy
Chairman of BP plc and a non-executive director of Sara Lee Corporation. He is also a
member of the CBI President's Committee.
Dr Lucy Shapiro
Dr Shapiro is Ludwig Professor of Cancer Research in the Department of
Developmental Biology and Director of the Beckman Center for Molecular and Genetic
Medicine at the Stanford University School of Medicine. She holds a PhD in molecular
biology from Albert Einstein College of Medicine.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 18012.1 Management
Our CR Principles
Our Corporate Responsibility Statement and Principles (below) identify our
key corporate responsibility issues and provide guidance for employees on
the standards to which the company is committed.
Corporate Responsibility Statement and Principles
The mission of our business - to improve the quality of human life to enable
people to do more, feel better and live longer - focuses on the needs of
patients. We will achieve this mission through our products and activities,
while enhancing the contribution we make to society, sustaining economic
performance and operating in an environmentally responsible manner.
Employment Practices
We will treat our employees with respect and dignity, encourage diversity and
ensure fair treatment through all phases of employment. We will provide a
safe and healthy working environment, support employees to perform to their
full potential and to take responsibility for the performance and reputation of
the business.
Human Rights
We are committed to upholding the UN Universal Declaration of Human
Rights, the OECD guidelines for MNEs and the core labour standards set out
by the International Labour Organisation. We expect the same standards of
our suppliers, contractors and business partners working on GSK’s behalf.
Access to Medicines
We will continue to research and develop medicines to treat diseases of the
developing world. We will find sustainable ways to improve access to
medicines for disadvantaged people, and will seek partnerships to support
this activity.
Leadership and Advocacy
We will establish our own challenging standards in corporate responsibility,
appropriate to the complexities and specific needs of our business, building
on external guidelines and experience. We will share best practice and seek
to influence others, while remaining competitive in order to sustain our
business.
Community Investment
We will make a positive contribution to the communities in which we operate,
and will invest in health and education programmes and partnerships that aim
to bring sustainable improvements to under-served people in the developed
and developing world.
Engagement With Stakeholders
We want to understand the concerns of those with an interest in corporate
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 181responsibility issues. We will engage with a range of stakeholders and will
communicate openly about how we are addressing CR issues, in ways that
aim to meet the needs of different groups while allowing us to pursue
legitimate business goals.
Standards of Ethical Conduct
We expect employees to meet high ethical standards in all aspects of our
business, by conducting our activities with honesty and integrity, adhering to
our CR principles, and complying with applicable laws and regulations.
Research and Innovation
In undertaking our research and in innovating:
• We may explore and apply new technologies. We will constructively
engage stakeholders on any concerns that may arise.
• We will ensure that our products are subject to rigorous scientific
evaluation and testing for safety, effectiveness and quality.
• We will comply with or exceed all regulations and legal standards
applicable to the research and development of our products.
Products and Customers
We will promote our products in line with high ethical, medical and scientific
standards and will comply with all applicable laws and regulations.
Caring for the Environment
We will operate in an environmentally responsible manner through systematic
management of our environmental impacts, measurement of our performance
and setting challenging performance targets. We will improve the efficiency of
all our activities to minimise material and energy use and waste generated.
We aim to find opportunities to use renewable materials and to recycle our
waste.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 182SUMMARY OF INDICATORS
AND
ABOUT THIS REPORT
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 18313
Summary of Indicators
These are the main indicators we use to track our performance on a range of
corporate responsibility issues.
Issue 2002 2003 2004
Medicines for the developing world
Supply arrangements for preferentially prices anti-retrovirals
(ARVs) 124 175 208
Number of countries supplied with preferentially priced ARVs 50 56 57
Number of Combivir tablets shipped (millions) 6.2 10.7 32.7
Number of albendazole tablets donated (millions) 66 94 67
Number of countries supplied with albendazole 31 34 34
Community Investment
Total community investment expenditure (£ millions) 239 338 328
Value of humanitarian product donations, including
albendazole (£ millions) 24 116 57
Value of products donated through GSK Patient Assistance
program (£ millions) 112 125 203
Business ethics and integrity
Number of employees completing certification to Code of
Conduct 700 9,000 9,600
Environment
Number of contract manufacturers audited 16 28 35
Energy consumption (million gigajoules) 20.0 19.9 19.0
Water consumption (million cubic metres) 24.4 23.0 20.5
Ozone depletion potential from metered dose inhalers (tonnes
CFC-11 equivalent) 1500 782 464
Ozone depletion potential from production (tonnes CFC-11
equivalent) 121 72 59
Ozone depletion potential from refrigeration and other ancillary
uses (tonnes CFC-11 equivalent) 6.4 2.3 2.3
Volatile organic compound emissions (thousand tonnes) 6.6 6.5 5.5
Global warming potential from energy sources (thousand
tonnes CO2 equivalent) 1,839 1,833 1,750
Hazardous waste disposed (thousand tonnes) 61.9 60.9 73.7
Health and Safety
Lost time injury and illness rate (cases per 100,000 hours
worked) 0.34 0.30 0.30
Lost time injury and illness rate for contactors working on site
(cases per 100,000 hours worked) 0.5 0.33 0.40
Valuing people
Women in management grades (%) 32 34 35
Ethnic diversity - people of colour (US, %) 19 19.5 19.5
Ethnic diversity - ethnic minorities (UK, %) - - 19.8
Research and development
GSK animal research facilities accredited by the Association for
Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care 7 7 10
Number of trials published on GSK Clinical Trial Register - - 143
14
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 184About This Report
This report covers our corporate responsibility activity and performance during
2004. It updates our last corporate responsibility report published on 24th
March 2003.
This year we have combined our reporting on corporate responsibility with our
environment, health and safety report and are reporting online for the first
time. These changes are in response to stakeholder feedback and we hope
they will make our report accessible to a wider audience.
Data relates to the calendar year 2004 (except where stated). Environment,
data is collected from 83 of our 84 pharmaceutical and consumer
manufacturing sites, 4 of our 8 biologicals manufacturing sites and 20 of 24
R&D sites as well as 5 of 6 distribution centres, 4 of the 6 major office
locations and 6 of the smaller office and sales locations. Health and safety
data covers all our 90 manufacturing sites and 23 R&D sites as well as 6
distribution centres, 6 major office locations and 63 of our smaller offices and
sales locations. We include data for sites that were in operation for all or part
of the year.
The scope of other data relates to our worldwide operations except where
indicated.
The GRI Index shows which elements of the Global Reporting Initiative
guidelines are covered in our report or elsewhere on our website.
Corporate responsibility is a large subject and we cannot cover all relevant
information in this report. Further background information on our approach to
CR is available at the Corporate Responsibility section of our website and
information on corporate governance is available in our Annual report.
Verification
The environment, health and safety sections of this report are externally
verified by ERM (Environmental Resources Management). Web pages to
which the verification applies are indicated by this symbol
See ERM’s verification statement in this document.
www.gsk.com - GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Responsibility Report 2004 185