Do more, feel better, live longer
Making a difference
ever y day
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2003
MaIkminpgr oav idnigff ehreeanlcthe,, eevveerryy ddaay 110011Contents Front cover
01 Introduction by Chairman 14 Community investment Sri Lankan mothers and children waiting
and Chief Executive Officer 18 Business ethics and integrity in line to receive GSK’s albendazole and
02 About GSK 20 Environment, health and safety another medication as part of the global
03 Managing corporate responsibility 23 Valuing people programme to eliminate lymphatic
05 Summary of indicators 26 Research and development filariasis (LF). See story on page 17.
08 Our contribution to society 29 Discussion with others
10 Medicines for the developing world 32 Web references
Highlights 2003
Humanitarian product Community investment
donations valued at valued at
£105 million £338 million
74% 94 million
more Combivir supplied to developing albendazole treatments donated in
countries at preferential prices the fight against lymphatic filariasis
10
Not-for-profit price for Combivir
reduced by
corporate responsibility principles
62%
formally adopted
9,000
Greenhouse gas emissions
per unit sales down
managers certified their
8%
compliance with Code of ConductToday...
Corporate responsibility has particular resonance for the
pharmaceutical sector. Our business is creating medicines to treat
and prevent disease – something that society needs and values.
At the same time healthcare, its financing and the way it is delivered
provokes much debate.
This report deals with important issues We have embarked on a programme of continual
for our business and explains what we improvement in environment, health and safety
are doing. Where possible we have performance. Our ten-year Plan for Excellence
included performance measures to includes detailed measures and targets in this area.
show our progress. We are already well on the way to meeting our
targets for the first five years.
Significant achievements this year include our
programmes for the developing world. For In 2003 we introduced new marketing codes
example, lymphatic filariasis (LF or elephantiasis) that are backed at the highest level by the Board
is a debilitating disease affecting 120 million and the heads of each of our business divisions.
people. Our medicine, albendazole, helps prevent Our efforts to reinforce these codes leave no
transmission of LF and in partnership with the doubt about what is and is not acceptable, and
World Health Organization (WHO) we donated the seriousness of contravening our codes.
94 million treatments in 2003. The WHO target is
to eliminate LF by 2020, by which time we expect GSK has always been committed to achieving
to have donated 6 billion treatments worth around ‘performance with integrity’ – profits without
$1 billion. This will be one of the pharmaceutical principles are not sustainable. To provide clarity
industry's largest donation programmes. about what this means we have adopted new
Corporate Responsibility Principles. We expect
We will continue our research and development everyone in GSK to consider how they apply
into treatments for diseases of the developing to their work.
world. This effort is complemented by our access
initiatives, particularly for AIDS in Africa and all We look forward to reporting our progress to
least developed countries where our preferential you again next year.
pricing agreements are now well established.
However, real progress in addressing disease and
suffering in poor countries will only occur if
responsibility is shared by all sectors of global
society - governments, international agencies
Sir Christopher Hogg JP Garnier
and companies such as GSK. Chairman Chief Executive Officer
Corporate Responsibility Report 2003 01About GSK
GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) is a leading research-based
pharmaceutical company. We make prescription medicines,
vaccines, over-the-counter medicines, and oral care and
nutritional healthcare products.
We are a global company headquartered in the UK, with major operations in the US.
Our business accounts for seven per cent of the world's pharmaceutical market.
We have particularly strong positions in several therapeutic areas including
respiratory, anti-viral, central nervous system, diabetes and vaccines.
Company statistics
Financial profile 2003 Operations
Sales .................................................... £21,441m Countries ........................................................117
Trading profit (business performance).... £6,920m Manufacturing facilities .................................. 92
R&D spend ............................................ £2,770m R&D facilities .................................................... 20
Sales Employment
1 1 US pharmaceuticals 44% Total employees ......................................101,000
4
Europe pharmaceuticals 24% Manufacturing .......................................... 32,000
2
Sales and marketing ..................................44,000
International
3
3 R&D ..........................................................15,000
pharmaceuticals 17%
Administration ..........................................10,000
2 4 Consumer healthcare 15%
About this report
This report summarises GSK’s corporate responsibility activity and
performance during 2003.
Further information on all the issues covered in this report is available
on our website, www.gsk.com
02 Corporate Responsibility Report 2003Managing Corporate Responsibility
During 2003 GSK formally adopted Corporate Responsibility Principles.
These clearly identify our key corporate responsibility (CR) issues, and
provide guidance for employees on the standards to which the company
is committed.
Corporate Responsibility Principles 7 Standards of ethical
The mission of our business – to improve the quality of conduct
human life to enable people to do more, feel better and live
We expect employees to meet high ethical
longer – focuses on the needs of patients. We will achieve standards in all aspects of our business, by
this mission through our products and activities, while conducting our activities with honesty and
integrity, adhering to our CR principles, and
enhancing the contribution we make to society, sustaining complying with applicable laws and regulations.
economic performance and operating in an environmentally
responsible manner.
1 Employment practices 4 Leadership and advocacy 8 Research and innovation
We will treat our employees with respect and We will establish our own challenging standards In undertaking our research and in innovating:
dignity, encourage diversity and ensure fair in corporate responsibility, appropriate to the • We may explore and apply new technologies.
treatment through all phases of employment. complexities and specific needs of our business, • We will constructively engage stakeholders on
We will provide a safe and healthy working building on external guidelines and experience. any concerns that may arise.
environment, support employees to perform to We will share best practice and seek to influence • We will ensure that our products are subject
their full potential and to take responsibility for others, while remaining competitive in order to to rigorous scientific evaluation and testing for
the performance and reputation of the business. sustain our business. safety, effectiveness and quality.
• We will comply with or exceed all regulations
and legal standards applicable to the research
and development of our products.
2 Human rights 5 Community investment 9 Products and customers
We are committed to upholding the UN We will make a positive contribution to the We will promote our products in line with high
Universal Declaration of Human Rights1, the communities in which we operate, and will ethical, medical and scientific standards and will
OECD guidelines for MNEs2 and the core labour invest in health and education programmes comply with all applicable laws and regulations.
standards set out by the International Labour and partnerships that aim to bring sustainable
Organisation3. We expect the same standards improvements to under-served people in the
of our suppliers, contractors and business developed and developing world.
partners working on GSK’s behalf.
3 Access to medicines 6 Engagement with 10 Caring for the
stakeholders environment
We will continue to research and develop
medicines to treat diseases of the developing
We want to understand the concerns of those We will operate in an environmentally responsible
world. We will find sustainable ways to improve
with an interest in corporate responsibility manner through systematic management of our
access to medicines for disadvantaged people,
issues. We will engage with a range of environmental impacts, measurement of our
and will seek partnerships to support this activity.
stakeholders and will communicate openly performance and setting challenging performance
about how we are addressing CR issues, in targets. We will improve the efficiency of all our
ways that aim to meet the needs of different activities to minimise material and energy use and
groups while allowing us to pursue legitimate waste generated. We aim to find opportunities to
business goals. use renewable materials and to recycle our waste.
Corporate Responsibility Report 2003 03“The pharmaceutical sector needs to demonstrate
responsibility across a very wide range of issues. GSK has
shown it is aware of its key CR issues and has clear structures
for managing them. GSK management keeps the CR
Committee informed of its activities and is responsive to
the Committee’s suggestions.”
Donald McHenry Chairman, Corporate Responsibility Committee
Corporate Responsibility Committee
GSK’s Corporate Responsibility Committee consists of four non-executive Directors and reports
to the Board. During 2003 the Committee met three times and reviewed our activity in a number of
areas including donations and community investment, consumer advertising, corporate responsibility
management and reporting, political activity and programmes for diseases of the developing world.
Donald McHenry Dr Michèle Barzach Sir Christopher Hogg Dr Lucy Shapiro
Chairman of the Corporate Dr Barzach is a member of the Sir Christopher is Non-Executive Dr Shapiro is Ludwig Professor of
Responsibility Committee. Mr International Cooperation High Chairman of Reuters Group PLC, Cancer Research in the Department
McHenry is a Distinguished Professor Council, Chairman of the Board of a member of the Supervisory Board of Developmental Biology and Director
in the Practice of Diplomacy at the Equilibres et Populations and Director of Air Liquide S.A. and Chairman of of the Beckman Centre for Molecular
School of Foreign Service at of the Board of Project Hope. The Royal National Theatre, as well and Genetic Medicine at the Stanford
Georgetown University and is International consultant in health as being Non-Executive Chairman University School of Medicine.
President of the IRC Group, LLC. strategy, she was formerly French of GSK.
Minister of Health and Family.
MANAGEMENT OF CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
We believe that corporate responsibility
is most effectively managed within our
business operations, where experts on
all our CR issues are employed. We Corporate
GSK Board Responsibility
have a small corporate team that Committee
co-ordinates policy development, Ethics and
integrity
reporting, and communication with
socially responsible investors.
CEO
Access to
medicines GSK
Research and
innovation
Corporate
Executive
Stakeholder Team
engagement Human
rights
Corporate
responsibility
Community strategy and
reporting
investment
Employment
practices
Environment
Products and
Advocacy customers
04 Corporate Responsibility Report 2003Key impact areas
Summary of indicators
1 Medicines for the
developing world
Below are the main indicators we are using to track our
ReseaRrcehs etaor cfihn dto t rfeinadtm treenattsm feonr tdsi sfeoar sdeiss eoafses
the deovfe tlohpe indgev weloorpldin. g Pwroovrilddi.n Pgr ovvaicdciinnge s performance on a range of corporate responsibility issues.
and mveadccicinineess afnodr tmhee dpiocionreess tf ocro uthnet rpieoso aretst
preferceonutinatl rpiersic aets .p referential prices.
PAGE1P0AGE 10
Issue 2002 2003
2 Community investment Medicines for the developing world
Our philanthropic work primarily Supply arrangements for preferentially priced anti-retrovirals (ARVs) 124 175
focuses on health and education. Number of countries supplied with preferentially priced ARVs 50 56
PAGE 14 Number of Combivir tablets shipped 6.2m 10.7m
Number of albendazole tablets donated 66m 94m
Number of countries supplied with albendazole 31 34
Community investment
Total community investment expenditure £239m £338m
Total value of product donations (including albendazole) £24m £116m
3 Business ethics and integrity
Total value of products donated through GSK Patient
The standards of behaviour required
Assistance Program £112m £125m
of all our employees and the steps we
Business ethics and integrity
are taking to ensure they are
achieved. Number of employees completing certification to 700 9,000
PAGE 18 Code of Conduct
Environment
Number of contract manufacturers audited 16 28
4 Environment, health and safety Energy consumption (million gigajoules) 20.1 19.8
Using resources efficiently and Water consumption (million cubic metres) 24.7 23.5
minimising the impact of our products Ozone depletion potential from metered dose inhalers
and operations on the environment. (tonnes CFC-11 equivalent) 1,500 782
Protecting our employees and
Ozone depletion potential from production (tonnes CFC-11 equivalent) 120 68
contractors in the workplace.
Ozone depletion potential from refrigeration and other ancillary uses
PAGE 20
(tonnes CFC-11 equivalent) 7.4 2.2
Volatile organic compound emissions (thousand tonnes) 6.5 6.6
Global warming potential from energy sources (thousand tonnes CO equivalent) 1,842 1,815
2
5 Valuing people
Hazardous waste disposed (thousand tonnes) 62.5 61.4
Our commitment to diversity, equal Health and safety
opportunity and creating a working
Lost time injury and illness rate (cases per 100,000 hours worked) 0.34 0.31
environment in which the talent of all
Lost time injury and illness rate for contractors working on site
our people will thrive.
PAGE 23 (cases per 100,000 hours worked) 0.50 0.33
Valuing people
Women in management grades (%) 32 34
6 Research and development Ethnic diversity – people of colour (US only, %) 19.0 19.5
The conduct and publication of Research and development
clinical trials. The need for animal GSK animal research facilities accredited by the Association for
testing and safeguards for their Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care 7 7
treatment.
PAGE 26
We are assessing the benefits of developing further performance indicators. In doing so, we will continue
to take into account the views of our stakeholders.
Corporate Responsibility Report 2003 05Each and e v
GSK plays an important role in society through research into new treatments
and vaccines, product donations, preferential pricing for developing countries
and support for patients who cannot afford medicines. Here are some
examples of how much we contribute each day.
More than
555,000
Americans have access to our
medicines free of charge or at
subsidised rates
These are people who do not have insurance and
would otherwise not be able to afford medicines.
£7 million
invested in scientific
medical research each day
Society relies on the pharmaceutical industry to discover
and develop the medicines of the future.
06Corporate Responsibility Report 2003e very day
Over
2 million
GSK vaccines are
distributed worldwide
These prevent disease and help improve public health.
and over
250,000
albendazole preventative
treatments are donated to
people in developing countries
Albendazole helps prevent transmission of lymphatic
filariasis, a debilitating disease affecting 120 million
27,000
people in developing countries.
tablets of Combivir are shipped
to treat HIV/AIDS patients in
developing countries
Making anti-retrovirals more affordable through
sustainable preferential pricing to help tackle the
global HIV/AIDS epidemic.
Corporate Responsibility Report 200307Our
contributio
Our business is about developing and marketing medicines and vaccines that
improve the health and quality of life of millions of people around the world.
We are a commercial organisation that needs to make profits to fund future
investment and to pay dividends to our shareholders.
We believe governments and Developing world Patient Assistance Program in the US
intergovernmental bodies are primarily Many people in the developing world continue GSK’s Patient Assistance Program (PAP) in
responsible for meeting the world’s to suffer and die from preventable and treatable the US gives low-income, uninsured patients
access to the medicines they need but
health challenges, including those in diseases. They do not have access to the
cannot afford.
the developing world. We cannot medicines they need, or to adequate healthcare
replace the functions of governments facilities. GSK makes a major contribution Commitment to Access covers cancer
or charities but we support them in through research into treatments and vaccines treatments while other medicines are available
through another of our programmes, Bridges
some very important ways – we have for diseases that are common in developing
to Access.
a significant role to play. countries, providing products at preferential
prices and investing in community health and In 2003, over 400,000 people received free
Pharmaceutical research education programmes. These are described in GSK medicines through these programmes.
Our total commitment to PAP in 2003 was
In developed countries we take medicines almost more detail on page 10. $205 million. Eligibility criteria for these
for granted. We have benefited from advances programmes are among the most generous
Developed world
which mean that most of us are no longer at risk offered by the pharmaceutical industry.
Even in developed countries some sections of
from diseases such as polio and TB that were
society do not have sufficient access to medicines. Patient eligibility is determined through one
major threats less than a century ago. But there phone call, and once enrolled a patient can
This is a particular concern in the US, where many
are still many serious illnesses for which there receive the prescription medicine immediately
people are not covered by public or private health
are few treatments or where treatments may be at any local pharmacy. In addition patients are
improved. insurance. We are helping patients who do not helped to find other sources of funding such
have insurance coverage to gain access to as Medicaid, AIDS Drug Assistance Program,
prescription medicines via a number of initiatives. State Children’s Health Insurance Programs
Discovering and developing a new medicine
and State Elderly Drug Assistance Programs.
to prevent or treat disease is expensive – the
average cost is over £450 million and it takes GSK was the first pharmaceutical company in the The company promotes the PAP on two
US to offer a card providing savings on medicines websites6,7 which tell patients what support
around 12 years.
to low income senior citizens and disabled people. is available and help to increase take-up.
Our Orange Card is available to these groups,
GSK invested almost
providing savings of up to 40% on GSK’s
£2.8 billion in research prescription medicines4. By the end of 2003,
155,000 patients had enrolled in this programme.
and development in 2003.
GSK has also joined with six other
This enables us to employ the
pharmaceutical companies to offer the Together
leading scientists and provide Rx™ card to low income patients who are
eligible for Medicare and would otherwise
the technology they need
not be able to afford prescription medicines5.
to push forward the frontiers Together Rx provides a discount of between
20% and 40% on over 150 different medicines.
of medical science.
We also operate a Patient Assistance Program
Society now relies on pharmaceutical companies which in 2003 provided medicines worth
to make this investment and fund research. The $205 million. These were provided at no cost, or
funding and resources of the industry are integral minimal cost, to more than 400,000 patients in
to the development of new medicines. the US who do not have medical insurance and
may otherwise have gone without their medicines.
08 Corporate Responsibility Report 2003n to society
“An important part of my job is helping some of the 80,000
people in Baltimore County who do not have medical insurance. GSK’s
programme makes it easy for me to help; the process is so quick I always
hope it’s a GSK medicine on the prescription. Patients pay just $10 for
two months’ supply of medicine no matter what drug is required. This
is invaluable to uninsured patients who might otherwise have to choose
between medicines or food. It literally saves lives.”
Wendy Freeman Case Manager, Baltimore County Health Department, Maryland, US
Corporate Responsibility Report 2003 09Medicines f
the develop
Lack of access to even basic medication and
healthcare facilities has led to a healthcare crisis in
the developing world. GSK is committed to playing
a leading role in addressing this crisis.
GSK’s response to this crisis has three elements: Progress in 2003 half of 2002 was largely due to potential
• Preferential pricing – offering anti-retrovirals Following improvements in manufacturing and purchasers delaying placement of orders in
(ARVs) for HIV/AIDS and anti-malarials on a economies of scale, we cut the not-for-profit anticipation of new funding sources. These
not-for-profit basis and vaccines at significant prices of ARVs in April and again in October. became available early in 2003, hence the
discounts to the poorest countries Combivir is now available at $0.65 a day, increase in shipments during this year.
• Research and development – investment in compared to $1.70 in December 2002.
the search for new treatments and vaccines It is difficult to quantify the number of patients
for diseases of the developing world We now have over 175 public sector agreements treated as a result of our programmes because
• Community investment – activities and to supply ARVs in 56 countries. This includes 25 we do not control healthcare provision. However,
partnerships that support improving health ARV supply agreements with employers in sub- a study in September 2003 by the UN-led
in under-served communities. Saharan Africa. Accelerating Access Initiative (AAI) indicates that
in sub-Saharan Africa the number of patients
Preferential pricing During 2003 we shipped almost 11 million treated with ARVs supplied by the six companies
All GSK ARVs and anti-malarial medicines are preferentially priced Combivir tablets to in the AAI had more than doubled in a year to
now available to the public sector at not-for- developing countries, 74% more than in 2002. over 75,000. This is still a very small proportion
profit prices in 63 of the world’s poorest Shipment figures for 2002 exclude the product of the patients who need treatment. Substantial
countries, including all of sub-Saharan Africa8. sold at not-for-profit prices to West Africa and coverage requires more funding to pay for better
Not-for-profit prices for ARVs are also available illegally diverted back to Europe, amounting to healthcare infrastructure and to ensure the safe
to private employers in sub-Saharan Africa who almost a quarter of not-for-profit Combivir sales delivery of more medicines to patients.
provide care and treatment for uninsured staff. that year. The decline in shipments in the second
All projects fully funded by the Global Fund to
Fight AIDS, TB and Malaria9 are also eligible, SUPPLY ARRANGEMENTS BY TYPE OF CUSTOMER
so that our not-for-profit prices are now available
in over 100 countries. We negotiate preferential 200
prices with middle-income countries on a
case-by-case basis.
150
Our not-for-profit prices are set to cover our
manufacturing and distribution costs. This
ensures we can sustain the supply of these
100
products for as long as patients need them.
The World Health Organization (WHO) has set
a target to treat 3 million HIV positive people in
50
developing countries with ARVs by 200510. We
are committed to making a strong contribution
to the achievement of this goal. 0
Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
2000 2001 2002 2003
Employers Public Hospitals NGOs Govt Non AAI AAI
10 Corporate Responsibility Report 2003for
1
Medicines for the
developing world
oping world
In 2003 we extended the voluntary licence Pilot projects are underway to explore world. A similar group also exists in our vaccines
granted to the generics manufacturer, Aspen opportunities for extending preferential pricing organisation based in Belgium.
Pharmacare, to include sales to the private to a wider range of medicines. These are being
sector. Under this agreement Aspen can now run in partnership with NGOs in Zambia, Malawi, Progress in 2003
manufacture and sell key GSK ARVs across Uganda, Tanzania and Nigeria. Early observations In February we launched our new meningitis
sub-Saharan Africa, in both the public and suggest that the greatest medical need is for vaccine for Africa, MencevaxACW, developed
private sectors. Discussions are underway with basic essential medicines. Furthermore, even with the WHO. This is available to 21 African
a second generics manufacturer on a similar when medicines are supplied at the lowest prices, countries at the preferential price of one euro
licence for GSK ARVs across Africa. access to treatment may not significantly increase per dose.
without adequate healthcare infrastructure.
Product diversion like that seen in 2002 denies Phase II clinical trials of our malaria vaccine for
treatment to patients in developing countries and The international community made good children began in Mozambique in partnership
undermines our preferential price agreements. To progress on supporting access to medicines with the Malaria Vaccine Initiative. We also
help minimise diversion we are introducing special initiatives in 2003. In particular we welcome started Phase III clinical trials in Latin America
‘access’ packs to differentiate preferentially priced funding from initiatives such as the Global Fund for our rotavirus vaccine, for protection against
products. We are now able to supply 58 countries and the US Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief, a major cause of diarrhoea. The dehydration
with Combivirin a special pack. as well as the G8 Action Plan on Health that resulting from diarrhoea, and the lack of a clean
recognises the importance of preferential pricing water supply, causes the death of over half a
Similar efforts are underway to secure and preventing product diversion11. However, million children each year in developing countries.
widespread regulatory approval for Trizivirand much more still needs to be done.
Epivirtablet packs and Retrovirand Epivir Human clinical trials of our HIV vaccine continued
solution packs. We will also be using a different Research and development this year and we are researching several other
colour for some of our ARV tablets. There is currently no cure for many of the potential HIV vaccines. We anticipate taking our
diseases affecting developing countries, and TB vaccine into Phase I development in early 2004.
In 2003 we applied to register a number of our some existing treatments are becoming less
ARVs under the EU’s Anti-Diversion Regulation effective due to drug resistance. Investment In October we signed a technology transfer,
designed to prevent illegal product diversion into in R&D for new treatments and vaccines is supply and licence agreement with the Brazilian
Europe. therefore vital. Public/private partnerships (PPP) government for the production of the measles,
are essential to fund research where there is mumps and rubella vaccine. This will enable
no commercially viable market for a potential more than 100 million children in Brazil to be
product. We are working with many vaccinated over the next five years.
governments, UN agencies and other global
funding bodies in this area. In July Lapdap, an anti-malarial treatment
5
developed by GSK through a PPP, received
We believe we are currently the only company approval from the UK regulatory agency (see
4 researching new vaccines and treatments for page 13). We expanded our research agreement
all three of the WHO’s priority diseases in the with the Medicines for Malaria Venture12. This
developing world – HIV/AIDS, TB and malaria. includes development of CDA, a combination of
3
We have 16 clinical development programmes Lapdapand artesunate,as well as two new classes
for products of relevance to the developing of anti-malarial in drug discovery.
2 world. Seven of these are aimed specifically at
diseases that disproportionately affect developing Phase II clinical trials of sitamaquine, a new oral
1 countries (see table, page 12). A number of pre- treatment for visceral leishmaniasis, were completed
clinical projects are also underway. in Kenya and India and demonstrated promising
efficacy. Further clinical studies are planned for
0
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 A team of researchers in the UK and Tres Cantos, 2004. We discontinued development of
2001 2002 2003 Spain has been established specifically to focus oxibendazole for intestinal worms as the treatment
on research into diseases of the developing offered no advantage over existing medicines.
Corporate Responsibility Report 200311
snoillim
deppihs
stelbat
SHIPMENTS OF COMBIVIR TABLETS*
(excluding diverted product)
*preferentially pricedDEVELOPMENT PIPELINE AT END OF 2003 FOR DISEASES RELEVANT TO THE DEVELOPING WORLD †
Pre­
Focus clinical PHASE I PHASE II PHASE III MARKETED
activity
HIV Non-NRTI Ziagen/Epivir* Epivir Retrovir
CCR5 antagonist Ziagen Combivir
Aspartyl protease inhibitor Agenerase Trizivir
NRTI Lexiva/Telzir
Vaccines HIV Hepatitis E Rotarix (rotavirus) Havrix (hepatitis A) Engerix B (hepatitis B)
Dengue fever Malaria Streptorix Twinrix (hep A & B) Infanrix (diptheria, tetanus,
N. meningitidis (S.pneumoniae paediatric) acellular pertussis)
Cervarix (HPV) Tritanrix (diptheria, tetanus, Polio Sabin (polio)
whole cell pertussis)
Priorix (measles, mumps Typherix (typhoid)
and rubella)
Hiberix (haemophilus Mencevax ACW (meningitis)
influenzae type b)
Malaria CDA (chlorproguanil, tafenoquine Malarone Halfan
dapsone + artesunate) Lapdap
TB
Other sitamaquine Zentel (de-worming agent)
(visceral leishmaniasis) Pentostam (visceral leishmaniasis)
* submitted for approval
† more detailed information on our product pipeline can be found in the Annual Report
In 2003 our ten-year partnership programme, Community investment in Against AIDS in Africa (KENWA) believes that a
Action TB, was completed. This research developing countries Positive Action workshop on writing effective
programme improved our understanding of We manage a large community investment fundraising proposals helped it secure a grant of
TB and should help the in-house development programme in developing countries. This includes $220,000 from the Global Fund to Fight AIDS,
of more targeted and effective treatments donations of medicines, as well as financial and TB and Malaria.
against the disease. practical support for public health initiatives
and education programmes14. The largest The GSK France Foundation, a GSK-endowed
We are supporting 27 clinical trials in developing programmes include those tackling three major charitable foundation, supports a range of
countries to assess the use of ARVs in resource- diseases – lymphatic filariasis (LF, commonly programmes to improve access to healthcare
poor settings. Seven new studies began in sub- known elephantiasis), HIV/AIDS and malaria. for HIV-positive people in Africa, particularly
Saharan Africa in 2003, bringing the total in this women and children17. Over the last five years,
region to 20. This includes the DART study, the Elimination of lymphatic filariasis (LF) the Foundation has provided £2 million to
largest adult HIV treatment study in Africa LF affects 120 million people, mostly in support 32 programmes in 13 African countries.
involving 3,000 patients in Uganda and developing countries, and is one of the world’s
Zimbabwe. We are supplying drugs for eight leading causes of permanent disability. Over one Progress in 2003
studies of prevention of mother-to-child HIV billion people, almost one-fifth of the world’s Positive Action supported 38 programmes
transmission, involving 8,000 patients in population, are at risk of LF infection. GSK's in partnership with 28 organisations in 34
developing countries. albendazole prevents transmission of LF when countries. Also during 2003, the GSK France
taken together with another medicine. As a Foundation supported 17 initiatives and pledged
HIV treatment regimens can be very complex, founding partner in the WHO’s Global Program to renew its commitment for a further five years.
requiring patients to take a combination of to Eliminate LF15, we expect to donate 6 billion GSK also granted $1.6 million over two years to
several different tablets at different times of the treatments by 2020, worth an estimated support the work of two HIV/AIDS clinics in
day. This increases the risk of patients missing $1 billion (valued at wholesale prices). Malawi and Uganda.
a dose or taking their medicine at the wrong
time. This can reduce the effectiveness of Progress in 2003 GSK African Malaria Partnership
treatment and lead to drug resistance. We are GSK donated 94 million treatments of This partnership is providing $1.5 million
looking at ways to simplify treatment regimens. albendazole to 34 countries. We have donated ‘kick-start’ funding over three years to support
In 2003 we sought regulatory approval in the 240 million preventative treatments since 1998 malaria education programmes18. The initiatives
US and Europe for a new fixed-dose combination to over 80 million people. The programme is are designed to improve the prevention and
of Epivir and Ziagen which are currently used expected to eventually reach one billion people. management of malaria in seven African countries.
as separate tablets in recommended treatment For example, our support will help Freedom From
regimens. If approved, this one-tablet Programmes for HIV/AIDS Hunger develop a malaria education module for its
combination would be taken once a day and For 11 years our HIV/AIDS programme, Positive 'Credit with Education' programme. This provides
would replace the two tablets currently taken Action16, has worked at the community level a package of financial services, and health and
twice a day. to support HIV care, education and prevention business education to help very poor women fight
initiatives. Positive Action partnerships with against chronic hunger, illness and poverty.
In October, US FDA approval was secured for organisations such as the Centre for African Family
Lexiva, a new HIV protease inhibitor, currently Studies (CAFS) tackle issues such as stigma and Progress in 2003
the only protease inhibitor to offer flexible dosing discrimination, a significant barrier to healthcare We contributed the first grants to our partners,
with no food or water restrictions. We hope to in many communities affected by HIV/AIDS. Freedom From Hunger, AMREF and Plan
start launching Lexiva (also known as Telzir) in International. We also donated $25,000 to Plan
developing countries in 2004/2005. CAFS provides training courses to community International to assist with relief operations and
organisations working with people affected by an increase in malaria cases in Sudan following
In December GSK was recognised for its HIV. It has trained over 250 key workers from severe flooding.
leadership in alleviating tropical infectious diseases 65 NGOs to build and run effective organisations
and improving global health, by the American helping people affected by HIV. Such well-placed
Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene13. support can have a powerful impact. For
example, the Kenyan Network of Women
12 Corporate Responsibility Report 2003“Lapdap can help
us meet the urgent
need for an affordable
anti-malarial treatment for
use in Africa, as it has been
shown to work in cases where
S/P [the standard treatment]
has failed.”
Professor Peter Winstanley University of Liverpool
Lapdap – a new anti-malarial for sub-
Saharan Africa
Malaria affects more than 300 million people
every year. There is an urgent need for new
affordable treatments to combat the disease
and to deal with the problem of resistance to
existing treatments.
The new anti-malarial treatment, Lapdap,
launched in 2003, is designed to tackle this
deadly disease. It was developed specifically
for use in sub-Saharan Africa, where malaria
kills more than one million people every year,
the majority of whom are children under five.
The initiative brought together GSK Drug
Development researchers with scientists in
Africa, and two leading UK medical schools –
the University of Liverpool and the London
School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine.
GSK, the WHO and the UK Government
(Department for International Development)
jointly funded the development project.
Lapdap was approved for use by the UK
Medicines and Healthcare Products
Regulatory Agency and, in line with best
medical practice, GSK is conducting post-
marketing studies in Africa to confirm the
long-term safety of the treatment.
GSK is registering Lapdap across sub-Saharan
Africa, where it will be available to national
malaria control programmes at preferential
prices. The treatment is already registered in
14 African countries.
We are also developing CDA, a new Lapdap
plus artesunate combination therapy, with the
WHO and the Medicines for Malaria Venture.
Corporate Responsibility Report 2003 13Community
investment
The Children’s Health Fund's Referral
Management Initiative
Homeless and disadvantaged children are
especially vulnerable to illness and are more
likely to suffer from acute and chronic
illnesses such as asthma. Many do not
receive vaccinations.
Despite needing more specialist care, it is
difficult for these families to keep hospital
appointments. Millions of children in the
US cannot access the healthcare they need
because of a lack of transport, too few
doctors in disadvantaged communities, or
cultural, language and institutional barriers.
A transient lifestyle often means they lose
contact with their doctor.
Over nine years, GSK has provided
$4.2 million to the Children’s Health Fund
to set up and run a Referral Management
Initiative (RMI)19. This helps children,
referred to a specialist, attend their
appointments and receive the care
they need.
The RMI reminds families about
appointments by phone and mail, provides
door-to-door transport to clinics and helps
communications, including providing a
translation service where necessary.
GSK is sole funder of the RMI. In 2003 we
provided additional funding of $756,000
to help extend the programme and develop
guidance for introducing similar initiatives
nationwide.
The RMI has dramatically increased the
number of children who see a medical
specialist after being referred. Approximately
75% of the children in the programme
are now getting the specialist care they
need, compared with just 5% when the
initiative began.
“The Children’s Health Fund partnership with
GSK has been responsible for positively transforming the
lives of tens of thousands of medically under-served
children in need of specialist care.”
Irwin Redlener President, Children’s Health Fund
14 Corporate Responsibility Report 20032
Community
investment
We concentrate community investment on improving health and education
in under-served and vulnerable communities worldwide. Our contribution is
mainly through donations of medicines, financial and practical support and
materials such as laboratory and office equipment.
We identify programmes to support on medicines were among the first to reach Iraq
the basis of need, not for their potential after the conflict began. We also provided
impact on our commercial business. medicines following earthquakes in India and
flooding in Nicaragua.
In 2003 our global community investment and
charitable donations were valued at £338 million, Our humanitarian donations were higher than in
equivalent to 5.3% of our pre-tax profits (statutory previous years, reflecting the variability in both the
results). This included £125 million for the Patient supply and demand for donations. Year by year
Assistance Program and other medicine donations the need for humanitarian relief depends on
for low income groups in the US, and £105 million events such as conflict and natural disasters. Also,
of humanitarian product donations*. It also the supply of product that GSK has available for
included management expenses of £17 million, donation can vary. If we have excess stock
the cost of running our community investment available this is offered to charities and will only
programmes. be placed when there is a clearly identified
community need. This is in addition to agreements
Our community investment programmes we have with a number of charities which can
focus on major public health initiatives on HIV, select products from GSK stock to fulfil their plans
malaria and lymphatic filariasis (see page 12), for relief programmes and emergency aid.
humanitarian aid, supporting communities
around the world, and employee involvement. Supporting communities around the world
Our programmes support communities in need
Humanitarian aid throughout the world. Here are some examples
In the aftermath of a humanitarian disaster it is for 2003:
vital to prevent the spread of infectious diseases.
Our antibiotics can play an essential role. UK
The GSK IMPACT Awards recognise and reward
We donate antibiotics to support relief efforts in the work of smaller voluntary organisations
countries affected by natural disasters or war. dedicated to improving community healthcare.
Donations are made through our NGO partners In 2003, we awarded £260,000 to 19
including AmeriCares, InterChurch Medical organisations dealing with issues as diverse as
Assistance, MAP International and Project HOPE. sexual abuse, mental health problems and day
These organisations can request GSK medicines care for the elderly. New Life Counselling Service
according to their needs. This enables them to received an award for its work counselling
respond quickly to emergencies since they have families affected by unrest in Northern Ireland20.
the medicines in their warehouses.
In 2003 we donated medicines worth “I am delighted that the
£105 million (valued at wholesale prices) to excellent work carried out by New Life
support relief efforts in 80 countries. GSK's
Counselling Service has been recognised
by this GSK IMPACT Award. To be
METHOD OF GIVING
(including US Patient Assistance Program) honoured at a national level, with such
a prestigious award, must be a source
3
1 Product 59% of great pride to all concerned.”
2 Cash 40%
Des Brown MP Former Minister with Responsibility for Health,
3 In kind 1% Social Services and Public Safety in Northern Ireland
2 1
*Our product donations are valued at wholesale acquisition Corporate Responsibility Report 2003 15
cost which relates to the price GSK charges wholesalers and
warehousing chains, not the retail price.“The Government is “This investment by GSK
to build basic healthcare
committed to excellence in science
infrastructure will go some way
education and I am delighted that
to ensuring that these vulnerable
GSK, one of our major science-based people do not suffer further due
companies, and Imperial College, are to ill-health and infant mortality.”
supporting this important initiative.” Greta Beresford Safe Childbirth Coordinator, HealthProm
Rt Hon Tony Blair MP British Prime Minister, speaking at
the launch of INSPIRE, June 2002
GSK is helping to improve school students’ Young people with HIV often face social stigma North America
interest and achievement in science and increase and discrimination that makes it hard for them The GSK IMPACT Awards recognise not-for-profit
the number of science teachers through the to continue living normal lives. GSK is supporting organisations in Philadelphia that are helping to
INSPIRE (INnovative Scheme for Post-docs In the SEYPA programme that combats this social improve healthcare21. The awards have helped
Research and Education) scheme. GSK is exclusion in five European countries with a three- 58 community organisations to raise funds,
providing up to £1 million over four years to year grant of £400,000. Through youth-led focus recruit new volunteers and support greater
the scheme which was developed in partnership groups, young people find solutions to the numbers of people. In 2003 we awarded
with Imperial College London and the Specialist problems they face. These include developing $367,000 to 16 organisations dealing with
Schools Trust. INSPIRE places post-doctoral training to help organisations provide better issues such as child abuse, breast cancer and
researchers into specialist science schools to support to young people affected by HIV. sexual and reproductive health.
assist with science teaching and to study
towards a teaching qualification, and provides Azerbaijan is home to 250,000 refugees. GSK Our support for the Children’s Health Fund has
sponsorship to help schools gain specialist is providing £202,000 over three years to a Safe enabled it to improve access to healthcare for
science status. Childbirth programme to improve healthcare for homeless children (page 14).
pregnant women and reduce infant mortality.
Each year we support up to five medical research The programme is run in partnership with the GSK is the major supporter of the University
charities whose work aims to benefit many charity HealthProm and the Azerbaijan Ministry of North Carolina's innovative travelling science
people in the future. In 2003 we gave over of Health. It uses qualified doctors and nurses laboratory, DESTINY. The laboratory visited 73
£350,000 to research projects run by Tommy’s, to train local healthcare providers such as under-served secondary schools and reached
the baby charity, International Spinal Research midwives, and to develop healthcare training 4,300 students during 2003. The programme
Trust, Epilepsy Research Foundation materials. The local GSK business is also helping encourages women and minority students to
and the National Osteoporosis Society. to vaccinate refugee children against measles, pursue science careers.
mumps and rubella.
GSK's Positive Action programme is funding Science in the Summer is a free science
a UK-based NGO called +VE to develop a Zippy’s Friends, a schools’ initiative run by education programme that aims to inspire
low-cost health education resource for UK Partnership for Children, teaches very young children to pursue science careers. Students learn
prisons. The Community Health, Advice, Support children skills for coping with adversities such fun, hands-on experiments that relate science
and Education (CHASE) programme is designed as family changes, bereavement and bullying. to every day life. In 2003 over 6,000 children
to raise awareness of sexual health issues and In 2003 GSK’s support helped extend the participated in the programme in 142 libraries
prevent the spread of HIV, TB, and hepatitis. project from Denmark and Lithuania to Goa, in the Philadelphia area.
In 2003 it was piloted in 150 of 189 UK prisons. India and the UK.
We hope the programme will be adapted for use
in other resource-poor settings.
Europe
Children coping with cancer and life-threatening
illnesses are encouraged to rediscover their
childhood at Barretstown in Ireland and L’Envol
camp in France. In 2003 we donated £400,000 “The partnership
to support these programmes. Over 60 GSK
employees also gave their time to help run
events for children at Barretstown while others
provided essential business expertise and training
to the Barretstown team.
we have forged with GSK to share skills and
resources has been a great example to other
companies. I know that many other firms now
recognise the value of partnering with a charity
rather than merely donating money.”
James Hill Chairman, Barretstown
16 Corporate Responsibility Report 200310 million
people treated against lymphatic filariasis in one day
Using medicines donated by GSK, the Sri Lankan
Ministry of Health mobilised 50,000 healthcare workers and
volunteers to treat half of its population, those at risk of LF,
in one day – 10 million people. Sri Lanka, now halfway
through its 5-year treatment plan, is just one of 36 countries
on several continents working to eliminate LF forever.
International In China we are working in partnership with the
Our Rural Nursing Excellence programme in British and Australian Red Cross, reaching young
Thailand has helped 150 nurses qualify since it people and drug users to prevent the spread of
was started in 1997, providing support to 109 HIV. During 2003 8,000 young people took part
hospitals and clinics. GSK has donated £500,000 in training and the programme has reached
to the programme to provide training for young 14,000 people so far.
women. The lack of nurses is a major barrier
to improving healthcare in rural areas and this Employee involvement
programme encourages them to take their skills Many GSK employees volunteer their time
back to benefit their villages. and expertise to worthy causes in their local
communities. This can include participating in “GSK’s support has
Our award-winning Personal Hygiene and Days of Caring at not-for-profit organisations in
Sanitation Education (PHASE) programme run in the US and mentoring school children through helped us to turn a simple
partnership with AMREF and Plan International our UK Science and Engineering Ambassador
idea for promoting children’s
is reducing diarrhoea-related disease in school Scheme and our US Partnership for Educational
children. In 2003 this simple hand-washing Discovery. health into an international
programme was expanded into a fourth country,
Zambia, with the Ministry of Education and In 2003 in the US, GSK matched donations programme… we couldn’t
USAID, and is being rolled out to all schools in of $3.8 million made by GSK employees and
have wished for better
Peru by the Ministry of Health. retirees through our Matching Gifts Program.
In addition, the $1.3 million donated by GSK partners.”
We are helping to give Africa's children employees to the United Way campaign was
a healthier future through the Integrated matched by GSK, giving a total of $2.6 million. Chris Bale Director, Partnership for Children
Management of Childhood Illness (IMCI) strategy. The GSK Investment in Volunteer Excellence
Developed by the WHO and Unicef, IMCI aims (GIVE) programme makes donations to registered
to reduce deaths from treatable and preventable charities in the US where GSK employees or
diseases by improving the skills of health workers their partners volunteer.
and helping families better care for sick children.
GSK has provided funding of $300,000 and In the UK our Making a Difference initiative
technical expertise. In 2003 the initiative was provides financial support to charities where
expanded from South Africa and Ethiopia into GSK employees are involved in voluntary work.
Namibia and Nigeria.
“GSK’s product donations for humanitarian
relief efforts allow us to save lives and serve
as a catalyst in building sustainable health
programmes throughout the developing world.”
Veronica Arroyave Director, Corporate Relations, MAP International
Corporate Responsibility Report 2003 17GSK is committed to ensuring that all our business practices meet
high standards and our employees behave ethically and honestly,
compete fairly and avoid conflicts of interest.
This section is about our business Ensuring compliance Departments such as Finance, Human Resources,
standards and in particular those relating All managers are expected to lead by example in Legal, Compliance and Internal Audit work
to our marketing teams. complying with our Code of Conduct and other together to monitor compliance with our policies
GSK policies and supporting their staff to do the and applicable laws. Marketing and sales
Code of conduct same. In 2002 we introduced an annual practices are monitored by our Internal Audit
GSK’s Code of Conduct sets out the standards certification process for the 700 or so managers Department during audits of our businesses.
we expect employees to meet. It requires all at vice-president level and above to ensure that We fully investigate any suspected breaches of
employees to behave honestly, in line with they understand this responsibility. In 2003 we policies and take appropriate disciplinary action
company policy and with the law, to avoid extended certification to include all mid-level where warranted.
conflicts of interest and to report any violations management in the US and UK so that over
of the Code or unethical behaviour22. 9,000 managers participated in the certification. In 2002 GSK provided input into the Compliance
Program Guidance for Pharmaceutical
To help employees understand the Code and If employees have concerns they can raise them Manufacturers developed by the US Health and
what constitutes acceptable and unacceptable with the Corporate Compliance Officer, the Human Services’ Office of Inspector General23.
behaviour in practice we have also issued an business unit Compliance Officers, or through The guidance, published in April 2003, is
Employee Guide to Business Conduct. The Code our confidential PO Box and helplines. Other designed to help pharmaceutical companies
and Guide are available on the company stakeholders can contact our customer response establish effective compliance programmes
intranet. centres which redirect calls to appropriate senior to prevent unlawful or unethical conduct. We
management. are benchmarking our programmes against the
guidelines.
Business
ethics and
integrity
18 Corporate Responsibility Report 20033
Business ethics
& integrity
Marketing practices These regional codes are being introduced across
The advertising and selling of medicines are the company and we have designated area
subject to regulations set out by governments champions to co-ordinate the distribution of the
and medicines agencies. GSK’s internal policies codes and training for staff. Codes are translated
encompass and build on these requirements. into local languages and all sales and marketing
employees receive a copy.
Most of our products are marketed by sales
representatives. They regularly meet doctors Training workshops and electronic media
and pharmacists to inform them about our ensure staff understand the codes and what
medicines and their approved uses. We also constitutes acceptable promotional activities. “Performance with integrity
market some products directly to consumers All employees involved in sales and marketing
where this is permitted. receive regular training on our products so they in all its aspects is absolutely non­
can provide accurate information to doctors.
negotiable, and adherence to the
Specific policies and guidance for sales and
marketing employees at a national level ensure new Code is a major way in which
that all our marketing is accurate, based on valid we show that.”
scientific evidence and complies with the law.
“We are committed to Russell Greig President Pharmaceuticals International, GSK
GSK also has a company-wide policy on
conducting our business with
Pharmaceutical Marketing and Promotion Activity
which applies to all employees and agents. It sets integrity and that means complying
out our commitment to promotional practices
fully, not only with the letter of the
that are ethical, responsible, principled and
patient-centred. It prohibits bribery or other law, but with the spirit. It is not our
inducements to doctors to prescribe a medicine. objective to look for loop-holes or
creative interpretations of the law,
More detailed guidance is provided by the
international and regional industry codes of nor shall it be our benchmark to
practice that we adhere to, including the
simply compare ourselves with our
International Federation of Pharmaceutical
Manufacturers Associations (IFPMA) Code of competitors and be satisfied that
Pharmaceutical Marketing Practices24. we are as good as, or no worse
than them.”
In addition GSK has developed, and keeps under
review, its own regional marketing codes that Andrew Witty President Pharmaceuticals Europe, GSK
ensure differences in market structure, national
healthcare systems and legal framework are
appropriately reflected.
Enhancing a compliance culture in sales and A regular ‘High Road’ newsletter and audio programme
marketing help reinforce key points from training and keep
Our pharmaceutical sales and marketing division in employees up to date on new developments.
the US has introduced a programme to make business
The company has also established an advisory board
integrity a key requirement. The initiative, called ‘Take
of sales managers from across the business to provide
the High Road on Ethics and Legal Compliance’, aims to
feedback on new initiatives and help ensure compliance
ensure employees understand and comply with our sales
programmes are practical and user-friendly.
and marketing policies.
The compliance department and confidential GSK
Education is an essential element. A comprehensive
Integrity Helpline have been publicised so employees
paper and on-line manual has been developed,
know where to go if they have any questions or
containing our sales and marketing policies, guidelines
concerns. Sales employees used this facility to ask more
for employees and Q&As on key subjects. This is available
than 1,100 questions on sales and marketing policies
to over 10,000 employees across the US. All new
in 2003.
and existing sales and marketing employees attend
compliance training and 11 new computer-based training Monitoring behaviour is an important element of
modules have been developed. More than 10,000 ensuring compliance. A full-time project team looked
employees completed compliance training in 2003. in detail at our monitoring processes for sales and
A video, Performing With Integrity, supports the training marketing and introduced improvements where
and includes perspectives from GSK sales people. necessary. Audits have been conducted in key
compliance areas during the past two years.
Corporate Responsibility Report 2003 19Environme
health and
Environment, health and safety (EHS) issues are managed through an
integrated system that ensures issues and risks are identified, training is
provided, targets set and audits conducted. Our EHS standards apply
throughout our operations and in 2002 we developed a ten-year strategic
plan – our Plan for Excellence25.
Environment Important environmental issues include:
We have a systematic plan to improve Air quality – Volatile organic compounds (VOCs)
environment, health and safety performance – used as solvents in manufacturing can contribute
the EHS Plan for Excellence. Our long-term goal to the formation of smog.
is to drive down manufacturing impacts and
switch to using renewable resources so that our Climate – Burning fossil fuels for energy
operations become increasingly compatible with produces carbon dioxide which contributes to
the principles of sustainable development. global warming and climate change.
We have identified appropriate parameters Ozone depletion – Some of our products and
to track progress in each of our main impacts. manufacturing processes use CFCs. These gases
Following the formation of GSK we established damage the ozone layer if released into the
baseline values for these parameters in 2001 atmosphere.
and set improvement targets to be achieved
by the end of 2005 (see chart, page 22). Waste – Some of the raw materials used in
pharmaceutical production processes are
An important element of our approach is hazardous and require special disposal methods.
consultation with people outside GSK – either
experts or community neighbours who may be Water – Waste water discharges from
affected by our sites. We do this routinely and at manufacturing sites require treatment before
several levels. The aim is for our stakeholders to they are released.
have access to the information they need and
the opportunity to tell us what they think and
how they want us to improve.
20 Corporate Responsibility report 2003nt
4
Environment
health & safety
safety
Technological changes improve
materials recovery
New technology can help improve our
environmental performance. GSK’s
manufacturing site at Ulverston in the
UK has introduced a new membrane filtration
system that has reduced hazardous waste by
50 tonnes and emissions of VOCs by 3
tonnes per annum. The new system saves
the site around £1 million a year.
Ulverston is one of our largest primary
manufacturing plants with over 600 staff
on a 60-acre site. It is situated near the Lake
District, an area of natural beauty and
ecological importance. The plant makes active
ingredients for many of our antibiotics.
Acetone, a VOC, is used as a solvent during
manufacturing when axetil, an oral antibiotic,
is spray dried. This process ensures the
medicines can be absorbed efficiently from
the stomach and gut into the patient’s
bloodstream. Acetone is also used to wash
the equipment used in processing.
Antibiotic residue in the acetone is valuable
and needs to be recovered before disposal
of the acetone. Previously this was done in
a remote area of the site but the system
was inefficient so a lot of the product was
wasted. Acetone is highly flammable so
pumping it across the site created a potential
health and safety risk.
In 2002 the site introduced a new membrane
filtration system. This separates antibiotic
from other residues in the acetone, allowing
it to be concentrated for more efficient
recovery. As a result of installing the new
equipment, the overall process has become
much more efficient. Up to 97% of the
antibiotic is now recovered, so there is less
waste. The filtration system was installed next
to the production building, reducing
the amount of solvent transferred across
the site and the health and safety risks.
The site won a GSK CEO’s EHS Excellence
Award in 2003 for its work in implementing
the new system.
Corporate Responsibility Report 2003 21Progress in 2003 emissions from the use of inhalers and from
CAUSES OF LOST INJURY TIME %
Our performance relating to resources, waste manufacturing, resulting in 48% less ozone
disposal, climate change and air quality depleting potential overall.
improved during 2003. Some of our targets 7 1 1 Thermal/chemical 6%
6 2 2 Caught in/on/between 8%
and the percentage reductions achieved are Health and safety
3 Motor vehicle accidents 20%
shown in the chart. The health and safety of our employees and 4 Over-exertions/strains 23%
contractors is a high priority for GSK. The risks 3 5 Slips/trips/falls 26%
During 2003 we made particularly good progress and hazards associated with our products and 5 6 Striking against/struck 10%
7 Other* 7%
toward our targets in six areas. Comparing with operations are systematically assessed and
*includes contact with sharps, animal/
2001 figures, the year we set our targets, and measures are taken to protect employees and 4 insect, electric/fire/explosion, foreign
with all measures normalised against sales, others coming into contact with the hazards. bodies/objects, workplace violence
energy consumption was down 8%, associated
global warming potential was down 8%, water We track the number of cases of injury or illness
consumption was down 17%, ozone depletion resulting in time off work and have set a
potential from production was down 64%, challenging target of reducing this by 15% every
ozone depletion potential from ancillary sources year until 2005. In 2002 we cut our injury and
was down 66% and hazardous waste disposed illness rate by 21%, and in 2003 we reduced it
was down 8%. by a further 9%.
CFCs are used as propellants in metered dose We also monitor the causes of incidents and
inhalers (MDIs) and we also use ozone depleting assess what can be learned to avoid similar
substances for refrigeration. When a patient uses injuries again. The main causes of injury are slips,
an MDI the propellant is released into the trips, falls, strains from over-exertion and motor
atmosphere. This is our largest source of CFC vehicle accidents. We deeply regret that during
emissions, amounting to 782 metric tonnes, 2003 there were five work-related fatalities
about 92% of the total. Releases from our among GSK employees. Four died in driving
factories that manufacture MDIs are our second accidents and one from mesothelioma due to
most significant source and refrigeration is the asbestos exposure in the 1950s. In addition,
smallest. Replacement of MDIs using CFC as a one contractor died in a fork-lift truck accident.
propellant with alternative technologies has cut
2003 PROGRESS AGAINST TARGETS
Lost time injury and -15%
illness rate -9%
Energy -8%
consumption -8%
Water -10%
consumption -17%
ODP – refrigeration and -100%
ancillary CFC emissions -66%
ODP – production CFC-11 -50%
equivalent emissions -64%
Volatile organic -30%
compound emissions -7%
Global warming potential -8%
from energy sources -8%
Hazardous waste -15%
disposed -8%
2005 Targets except for lost time injury and illness rate which is an annual target
2003 Improvements against 2001 baseline
Environmental measures are normalised by sales
ODP is ozone depletion potential
Global warming potential is measured as CO2 equivalents
An explanation of all EHS data is in the full EHS report on our website, www.gsk.com
EHS data for 2003 not yet verified
22 Corporate Responsibility Report 2003Valuing
5
Valuing people
people
GSK employs over 100,000 people in 117 countries. Getting the
best from our people is vital to the success of our business and a
key source of competitive advantage.
Below we report on: More than two-thirds of GSK employees
• our work to embed the GSK Spirit and culture participate in our individual appraisal process,
across our operations worldwide Performance and Development Planning (PDP).
• the development of our diversity initiatives This helps employees set objectives, rewards
• introducing human rights standards into our strong performance and helps them identify
procurement processes. the training they need to develop their careers.
As part of the PDP process, employees and
The GSK Spirit their managers assess how well they have
This sets out the values and qualities we expect implemented the GSK Spirit in their work, and
employees to embrace in their work. this can have a significant impact on the bonus
Its principles are: payments awarded to eligible employees.
• performance with integrity
• entrepreneurial spirit We use a global survey of 11,000 managers to
• focus on innovation help us analyse how effectively we are building
• a sense of urgency the GSK Spirit. Last year we reported on the
• passion for achievement. 2002 results, which were generally positive.
Since then, work has been taking place to
Getting our culture right address areas identified for development.
We aim to build a culture in which our people Progress will be measured when the next
are clear about the company’s expectations and survey takes place during 2004.
instinctively "do the right thing". Each of our
operations has been working with employees to Diversity
ensure they understand and adopt the principles GSK is committed to employing a diverse
of the GSK Spirit. Our approach is tailored to workforce. Both individual employees and
reflect local circumstances, with events including GSK benefit from a workplace where talented
workshops, team meetings, presentations and people can thrive, and where their diversity of
awards. For example, GSK in Nigeria used a background, culture and outlook helps us better
costumed storyteller to introduce the Spirit understand the needs of patients and customers
to employees. In Argentina every employee worldwide. Our aim is to create an inclusive work
attended a half-day culture awareness workshop. environment free from discrimination on grounds
of race, ethnicity, gender, religion, sexual
Our leadership development programmes are orientation, disability or age.
designed to encourage employees to apply the
GSK Spirit. These programmes are available to We held our first Diversity & Multi-Cultural
managers globally at all levels. This year 286 Marketing Awards in Philadelphia in May 2003.
people attended Leadership Edge, our global The awards, which will be made annually, have
programme for senior managers, and 235 been set up to demonstrate the impact diversity
attended Leadership@GSK, the programme for can have on improving business performance,
middle managers. The programmes are designed and to share best practices around the company.
to help managers to achieve performance
through others and to increase their insight into
differing work styles, strengths and motivations.
Corporate Responsibility Report 2003 23Current diversity initiatives include our Women Human rights
in Leadership programme in the US to support Compliance with our human rights requirements
career development. Additionally in 2004 we will has been included as one of our criteria for
be holding a Women in Science day in the UK to selecting suppliers. We are also introducing
attract more female science graduates into the binding clauses into our procurement contracts
industry. We are also undertaking a review in which require suppliers to meet our standards on
the UK of how we can improve the working human rights.
environment and access to our facilities and
websites for disabled employees, potential In 2003 we began incorporating human rights
employees and visitors. This will conclude in clauses into our central contract templates for use
early 2004. with new suppliers. This process will be completed
in 2004. We are also adding these clauses to
In 2003 we widened the scope of our employee contract templates used by local operations.
networks in the US, with new groups for sales
staff and in the Delaware Valley. Our broad Risk of human rights issues varies around the
spread of existing network activities includes world, and where appropriate we are contacting
career development programmes for Asian, major existing suppliers to assess whether they
African American, Hispanic and gay and lesbian meet our standards. Key suppliers have been
employees. asked to confirm in writing that they comply,
and the requirements are being introduced into
GLOBAL MANAGEMENT POPULATION existing contracts when they are reviewed.
BY GENDER 2003 Implementing the GSK Spirit in
MEN WOMEN TOTAL We have contacted over 400 suppliers so far to Consumer Healthcare India
gain their agreement to the standards. To date In a country as diverse as India, creating a
Bands A & B* 550 (80%) 135 (20%) 685 unified spirit and culture is critical to the success
no companies have declined to co-operate, and
Bands C 1-3** 2,557 (69%) 1,158 (31%) 3,715 of GSK’s Consumer Healthcare business.
Bands C 4-5*** 4,221 (63%) 2,432 (37%) 6,653 we are following up with those that have not yet
responded to our request. The main product is Horlicks which is a major
Total 7,328 (66%) 3,725 (34%) 11,053 consumer brand in India. The business employs
3,000 people at ten sites. Employees are
Questions on human rights issues have been
* Corporate Executive Team, Vice Presidents and Senior drawn from across India so there are huge
Vice Presidents added to the standard list of topics discussed differences of background, religion and
** Director Level
*** Manager Level at supplier visits by our procurement and EHS culture. At least four different languages are
global audit teams. commonly spoken in the workplace.
This year we have seen an increase in the
Each site has developed initiatives to bring the
number of women in management positions If a supplier is found not to meet our standards GSK Spirit to life and enable employees to
in the company from 32% in 2002 to 34% we will work with them to achieve compliance. understand its relevance in an Indian working
in 2003. We will conduct regular audits to ensure that environment. These are supported by business-
they have improved their performance so it is in wide tools such as a Spirit website with
regularly updated games and quizzes on how
We report ethnicity data for US employees. line with our requirements. We will terminate a
to apply the Spirit in practice.
In 2002 people of colour accounted for 19.0%. contract if a supplier will not or cannot work
This increased very slightly in 2003 to 19.5% towards compliance. The company’s Nabha manufacturing site in
of the US workforce of 24,000. We intend to the rural Punjab area, where literacy rates are
low, uses posters with cricket cartoons to
collect and report ethnicity data for our UK
illustrate the Spirit’s principles. Employees have
operations for 2004. also made their own motivational film for use
in team meetings.
ETHNICITY OF US EMPLOYEE POPULATION 2003 Employees at manufacturing sites are
encouraged to get involved in our global
Total US ‘Operational Excellence’ campaign and
demonstrate passion in their work, by
19.5% employees 24,000 developing a ‘Just do it’ (JDI) concept. These
are simple ideas to improve efficiency and
People of colour effectiveness. In 2003 every one of over 1,000
employees at Nabha contributed at least one
JDI, including ideas to improve health and
safety and reduce waste at the site. JDIs
developed at our Sonepat plant helped save
over £30,000 during 2003.
Employees are rewarded for their ideas
through Spirit recognition awards.
The company’s focus on getting its culture
right has helped it gain recognition as one of
India’s top employers. In 2003 it was declared
fifth best employer in the annual Business
Today/Hewitt awards, which are partly
determined by employee feedback.
24 Corporate Responsibility Report 2003Corporate Responsibility Report 2003 25Research a
developme
Medical research can give rise to ethical concerns and we engage
openly in constructive debate on these matters. Here we discuss the
disclosure of clinical trial information and the use of animals in research.
Evaluating potential new medicines in We believe that healthcare decisions should
clinical trials is an essential and mandatory be made in the knowledge of all relevant
step in developing new treatments. Trials information. GSK supports scientific and medical
may also be conducted once a medicine progress by making the results of clinical trials
is on the market to further investigate its more widely available. Whenever possible, we
role in the treatment of patients. In all publish our clinical trial results in peer-reviewed
studies, our first concern is the safety scientific and medical journals and in conference
and well-being of trial participants and abstracts and proceedings. The research and
future patients. healthcare communities look to these sources
for current information.
Our clinical trials are conducted in accordance
with all applicable laws and regulations, as well We worked with other pharmaceutical
as recognised principles of good clinical practice. companies in 2002 to help clarify the industry’s
We are legally obliged to disclose all data from approach to the communication of clinical trial
clinical trials to the regulatory authorities when results and to develop the PhRMA Principles on
we seek approval for a new product. the Conduct of Clinical Trials & Communication
of Clinical Trial Results26. We fully support these
Approval to market a product is only given if principles and apply them to all our clinical
the regulators are satisfied that the product is safe studies worldwide.
and effective, and can be manufactured to high
and consistent quality standards. After a medicine In particular we reaffirm our commitment to:
or vaccine has been approved for marketing, we • The timely communication of all meaningful
continue to provide regulatory authorities with results of controlled clinical trials of marketed
further safety information. products or investigational products that are
approved for marketing, whether the results
are positive or negative
26 Corporate Responsibility Report 20036
Research and
development
nd
nt
• Review and discuss manuscripts with the Advancing management of
NUMBER OF PUBLICATIONS OF GSK CLINICAL TRIALS
clinical investigators who conducted GSK- heart disease
sponsored studies before they are submitted Heart failure is a serious condition, with five
million people affected in the US alone. Half
to a journal or conference for publication
• Ensure that anyone who contributes 600 549 of these patients will die within five years of
diagnosis and new treatments are urgently
significantly to the study and writing or 500 required.
revising of the manuscript receives appropriate 437
GSK, partnering with another company, rose
recognition as an author or contributor when 400 364
to this challenge by investigating new uses
the manuscript is published
for Coreg, a GSK beta-blocker medicine for
• Publish results gathered from all the centres 300 treating high blood pressure.
involved in a multi-centre trial before those
Clinical trial results were positive,
from individual centres. 200
demonstrating that adding Coreg to current
medication reduced the mortality rate among
Publication in journals and at many conferences 100 patients with heart failure by 35% and slowed
is subject to peer review and is at the discretion progression of the disease. This can help
of journal editors and conference organisers. 0 patients to live longer and to feel better.
2001 2002 2003
This means that GSK cannot guarantee that The product licence was expanded so
clinical trial information will be published in Coreg can now be prescribed by doctors
these ways. We are therefore assessing additional for treatment of heart failure as well as
options to communicate clinical trial information. The number of publications each year depends hypertension.
on the number of trials completed and the
This was the first time a beta-blocker was
number accepted for publication.
shown to be effective and safe in treating
heart failure. Previously it was believed that
In 2003 437 papers describing the results of
beta-blockers were unsafe in heart failure
GSK’s clinical trials were published in journals patients.
and at conferences.
Corporate Responsibility Report 2003 27Animal research We are committed to the 3 Rs: reducing the The number of animals used may fluctuate
Animal research is essential to understand number of animals used in each study; refining from year to year and depends on several factors
disease. It enables us to evaluate the studies to minimise pain and maximise the such as the number of compounds in research
effectiveness and safety of new medicines before information obtained from each animal; and and development, regulatory requirements and
they are given to people. Regulations require the replacing animal studies with alternative methods the introduction of new non-animal research
use of animals to establish that new medicines wherever possible. techniques.
are safe and to test some types of vaccines after
each batch is produced27. For example, we have replaced many animal Our laboratories comply with strict national
studies with new research methods such as laws, guidelines and codes of conduct and are
We believe it is important to explain the need for computer modelling and tests on isolated cells regularly inspected by government agencies. Our
animal research and to be open about what we and tissues. We have refined many procedures employees and any laboratories working on our
do. We host visits from schools and colleges, to use non-invasive techniques such as magnetic behalf must also follow a GSK code of practice.
animal welfare organisations (such as the RSPCA) resonance imaging, which have helped to reduce Research teams ensure that studies are refined
and other stakeholders to our laboratories in the the number of animals used in each study. to minimise any animal suffering.
UK. In 2003 we also made over 70 visits to UK
schools to discuss issues arising from animal We run award programmes to encourage We also obtain additional independent
research. We consult with other organisations researchers to find alternative approaches evaluation from the Association for Assessment
such as the Nuffield Council on Bioethics and to the use of animals. GSK’s R&D Chairman & Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care
the Universities Federation for Animal Welfare. presents several Animal Welfare Awards each (AAALAC) International, which gives
year to employees who have made outstanding accreditation to sites that meet the highest
GSK has 12 animal research facilities in the US, advances in implementing the 3 Rs. Our annual standards29. All seven of GSK’s animal
Europe and Japan. Some research (approximately European GSK Laboratory Animal Welfare Prize28 laboratories in the US and UK are accredited.
4%) is conducted by external contractors on (for external laboratories) is awarded to We have made good progress working towards
our behalf. individuals or groups who have developed new accreditation of sites in continental Europe and
techniques that enhance our ability to implement Japan and plan to complete this process as soon
Over 99% of the animals we use are rodents. the 3 Rs. This year’s winner was the Norwegian as possible.
The remaining 1% includes fish, amphibians, Reference Centre for Laboratory Animal Science
rabbits, pigs, dogs, cats and primates. and Alternatives.
This approach is achieving results. The number
of animals used by GSK is broadly the same as
nine years ago despite a significant increase in
R&D activity.
ANIMALS USED IN RESEARCH CHANGE IN R&D ACTIVITY COMPARED WITH NUMBER OF ANIMALS USED BY GSK
200
50
0
1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002
Year
R&D activity Animals used
4991
ecnis
egnahc
%
Mice 65%
150
Rats 26%
Guinea pigs 7%
100
Other rodents 1%
Others 1%
Figures normalised to 1994 levels
28 Corporate Responsibility Report 2003Discussion
with others
Engaging with stakeholders is an important aspect of our
approach to corporate responsibility. We believe it is essential
to listen to other people’s views and to communicate our own
opinions externally.
We interact with many different people Communication with employees • Employee satisfaction surveys give us feedback
and groups who are interested in our Internal communication is particularly important. on our company programmes and identify
business or affected by our products and We aim to keep everyone well informed and areas where we can do better. Our global survey
operations: employees, investors, doctors, involved in company activities, and we seek in 2002 involved 11,000 managers from around
patients, suppliers, non-governmental their feedback. We have a range of initiatives to the world. The next management survey will
organisations (NGOs), multilateral ensure that we reach employees right across the take place in 2004.
agencies, governments and local company. These include: • At a local level, many sites produce regular
communities. Much of this discussion newsletters for staff, often spotlighting
takes place as part of the normal course • myGSK, our global intranet site, with updates environment, health or safety issues and
of business. We also have meetings on company and industry news and a Q&A programmes.
specifically to review corporate page where employees can put questions • Confidential feedback mechanisms enable
responsibility issues, for example with directly to the CEO. Up to 100 questions are employees to raise concerns. These include
socially responsible investors and NGOs. answered each month. integrity helplines in the UK and US.
• Behind the News, a section of the GSK • In Europe our Works Councils and European
intranet, giving the company’s position on Employee Consultation Forum provide regular
important issues linked to press clippings opportunities for employees and company
about GSK. management to discuss issues.
• Spirit, our internal magazine, is available to
employees company-wide four times a year.
• An events programme with more than 100
meetings in 2003. Events enable employees
at all levels to meet the CEO and senior
management and discuss the progress of
the business, to raise questions and to give
feedback.
Corporate Responsibility Report 2003 29Discussion with external stakeholders
The way we interact with these groups depends very much on their
needs and the type of work we are doing with them. Here are some
of the ways we interact:
Stakeholder Type of communication
Healthcare • We meet regularly with doctors and pharmacists to tell them about our products and discuss any issues
professionals and concerns they may have. We also conduct market research among doctors and other healthcare
(for example, doctors professionals to get feedback.
and pharmacists) • We work with medical organisations to develop and sponsor continuing medical education for doctors and
other healthcare professionals such as accredited training courses in asthma care for nurses.
• We partner with healthcare professionals to design and conduct clinical trials and research projects.
• Research results, including those from our clinical trials, are peer-reviewed and published in medical journals.
Governments and • We have regular dialogue with regulators to share information on new science and technologies.
regulators For example, we have supported a genetic research education programme to discuss issues raised by
genetics and its potential applications in healthcare.
• Our operations liaise regularly with environment, health and safety authorities to ensure we are complying
fully with our legal obligations. Many of our specialist environment, health and safety employees also
participate in government committees and consultations to help develop better regulation for the future.
• In 2003 we sponsored the annual conference of the UK Environment Agency, where GSK’s work on ‘green’
chemistry was acknowledged in a presentation by Baroness Young, Chief Executive of the agency.
Investors • Senior managers present final year-end results to institutional investors and analysts in London and New
York. There are also teleconferences after the release of quarterly results. These presentations can be
accessed via our website.
• The Annual General Meeting takes place in London. This includes a business presentation to shareholders,
and Directors are available to answer questions.
• Senior managers discuss the company’s plans, objectives and governance with institutional shareholders.
This includes regular meetings and participation in external investor conferences.
• We held an R&D day in December 2003 to inform investors about products in our development pipeline.
• Our annual Corporate Responsibility forum for investors was held in July. Senior GSK managers with
expertise in relevant areas met representatives of more than 30 investment funds and rating agencies and
responded to their questions.
• We also meet regularly with investors to discuss our corporate responsibility policies and performance.
Meetings held in 2003 included discussions on all the key impact areas addressed in this report.
30 Corporate Responsibility Report 2003Stakeholder Type of communication
Non-governmental • We discuss approaches to the healthcare needs of developing countries with NGOs such as Médecins Sans
organisations and Frontières, Freedom from Hunger and Oxfam.
communities • We work with NGOs, patient groups and consumer groups, for example on smoking cessation, asthma and
vaccination campaigns.
• Through our community investment programmes we work in partnership with organisations and community
groups. We meet together regularly around the world to evaluate progress in meeting local community needs.
• Our Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) Workshop in September 2003 brought together key NGOs, trade
unions and government representatives to discuss our environmental performance and our long-term
strategy for achieving leadership and excellence in EHS. The key issues highlighted by this discussion will
form part of our improvement programme in 2004.
• We partner with a number of environmental NGOs. Examples include sponsoring Green Alliance in a
project to raise awareness of the links between environment and health and funding Earthwatch to send school
teachers on conservation projects.
• We host tours of our laboratories and visit schools to help improve understanding of scientific research,
for example the use of animals.
• Many of our operations produce newsletters to keep local communities informed of their work, and each
year several sites host open days. At many GSK sites, employees undertake projects to improve the
environment in their local area. A number of our operations also have outreach projects. For example, in
2003, a Horlicks plant in Rajahmundry, India, was recognised with the CEO’s EHS Excellence Award in
Community Partnership for local projects including the provision of drinking water to villages experiencing
drought, donation of desks and chairs to schools, building a bridge to improve access to a school, and
organising a de-worming programme for children.
Scientific community • We collaborate with academics, researchers and other pharmaceutical companies to research and develop
new treatments and encourage the transfer of expertise and skills.
• We work with education authorities to develop and sponsor initiatives that further science education in
schools, for example through our INSPIRE programme.
• We hold a regular science policy conference in the UK, in partnership with government and non­
government stakeholders, to discuss issues of common interest. The 2004 meeting will discuss clinical
sciences in the UK.
• We sponsor university research in environment, health and safety issues, including projects in ‘green’
chemistry, eco-efficiency and alternative technologies to reduce environmental impacts.
• We regularly meet with UN agencies, including the WHO, UNAAI, Unicef and the Global Fund to Fight
Multilateral agencies AIDS, TB and Malaria, to discuss a wide range of issues. These include addressing the HIV/AIDS epidemic
through preferential pricing arrangements, creating public/private partnerships for R&D into diseases of the
developing world and targeting our product donations.
• We collaborate with the WHO, Ministries of Health and 40 other partners as part of the Global Alliance to
Eliminate LF.
• We take part in the annual WHO-IFPMA round tables at which the WHO and industry discuss partnership
opportunities to improve global health.
Corporate Responsibility Report 2003 31Web references
Our corporate website can be found at www.gsk.com
Websites cited in this report:
1 www.un.org/Overview/rights.html
2 www.oecd.org/dataoecd/56/36/1922428.pdf
3 www.ilo.org/public/english/standards/norm/index.htm
4 http://us.gsk.com/card/
5 www.togetherrx.com/
6 www.commitmenttoaccess.gsk.com/
7 www.bridgestoaccess.gsk.com/
8 www.gsk.com/about/pricing.htm
9 www.theglobalfund.org
10 www.who.int/3by5/publications/documents/en/Treating3millionby2005.pdf
11 www.state.gov/p/af/rls/fs/17033.htm
12 www.mmv.org
13 www.astmh.org/index2.html
14 www.gsk.com/community/index.htm
15 www.filariasis.org
16 www.gsk.com/positiveaction/index.htm
17 www.gsk.fr/gsk/fond/mp.html
18 www.gsk.com/malaria/index.htm
19 www.childrenshealthfund.org/rmi.html
20 www.gsk.com/community/impact_awards_uk.htm
21 www.gsk.com/community/impact_awards_us.htm
22 www.gsk.com/ser/2001/ser01/ser3.html
23 http://oig.hhs.gov/fraud/docs/complianceguidance/042803pharmacymfgnonfr.pdf
24 www.ifpma.org/News/news_market.aspx
25 www.gsk.com/financial/reps02/EHS02/GSKehs-15.htm
26 www.phrma.org/publications/policy//2003-11-20.871.pdf
27 www.gsk.com/about/animal_research.htm
28 www.rds-online.org.uk/pages/page.asp?i_ToolbarID=4&i_PageID=163
29 www.aaalac.org
32 Corporate Responsibility Report 2003Internet
Information about the company is available
on GlaxoSmithKline’s corporate website at
www.gsk.com
Head Office and Registered Office
GlaxoSmithKline plc
980 Great West Road
Brentford
Middlesex TW8 9GS
UK
Tel: +44 (0)20 8047 5000
You can contact the company directly
about corporate responsibility issues on
csr.contact@gsk.com
Our Reports
ANNUAL REVIEW
Do more, feel better, live longer A review of major themes for
2003 and an abridged version
of the financial results.
Improving health
every day
ANNUAL REVIEW 2003
ANNUAL REPORT
Do more, feel better, live longer The full financial statements
for 2003.
Improving performance
every day
ANNUAL REPORT 2003
Produced by Corporate Communications,
GlaxoSmithKline.
CORPORATE
Do more, feel better, live longer RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Design consultancy by salterbaxter.
A review of our
Corporate responsibility consultancy by Context.
commitment to society
and the environment. Photograph on page 14, courtesy of Monika Graff.
Printed in the UK by The Colourhouse. The paper
Making a difference used in the production of this document is made
every day
from pulps harvested from sustainable forests, also
using sawmill residues and forest thinnings. It is
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2003 elemental chlorine-free.
MaIkminpgr oav idnigff ehreeanlcthe,, eevveerryy ddaayy110011 Product names throughout this publication are
indicated in italics and are trademarks of
GlaxoSmithKline plc, its subsidiaries or associated
Every day, all around the world, GlaxoSmithKline is companies, with the exception of Levitra, a
trying to improve people’s lives and have a positive trademark of Bayer AG and Nicoderm, a trademark
impact on all its stakeholders. This year’s reports of Aventis SA, both of which are used under licence
emphasise this far-reaching commitment. by the Group.www.gsk.com
34Annual review 2003