The Impact of Medicines
Do more, feel better, live longer Corporate and Social Responsibility Report 2002Corporate responsibility is an integral
part of our business – it is inherent in the
mission of our company. GlaxoSmithKline
makes a significant positive contribution to
society around the world, through the
medicines and healthcare products that we
research, develop, manufacture and sell.
Contents
01A global challenge 20Valuing people
02The scope of our business 24 Environment, health and safety
04Our contribution to society 28Business ethics and integrity
06Medicines for the developing world 32Management of CSR
12Community investment 33Web references
16Research and development
Impact of Medicines cover story
Although a generation separates them, Bettina Bartels and her son Philippe
are able to lead active lives despite both suffering from asthma. Their story
can be found in our Annual Review. On page 5 of this report, Dr Vincent
McGovern gives his perspective on asthma management as both a patient
and a doctor.
Annual Report Annual Review Corporate and Social
Responsibility ReportDuring 2002,we...
• invested a total of £239 million in global community
activities, product donations and charitable
contributions – more than any other UK company;
• donated 66 million albendazole tablets, worth
£8.7 million, to 31 countries to support the prevention
of lymphatic filariasis;
• increased shipments of our CombivirHIV/AIDS
treatment at preferential prices to the developing
world to nearly 6 million tablets, up from 2.2 million
in 2001;
• worked with other companiesto establish new
industry Principles on the Conduct of Clinical Trials
and Communication of Clinical Trial Results; and
• surveyed 10,000 of our managers on their views
of GSK’s Spiritand culture.
A global challenge
The responsible behaviour of all types Our products must improve people’s lives to ensure
of organisations, including multinational a profitable and sustainable future for our business.
companies, governments and charities, is high on We also understand that it is not just how much
the public agenda and stimulates considerable profit we make that matters. Stakeholders, including
debate. Last year, in our first review of corporate employees, want to know how we make this profit,
and social responsibility, which covered GSK’s and to be reassured of the sound ethical basis for
first year as a new company, we set out our our business.
commitment to connecting business decisions
to ethical, social and environmental concerns1. We could not run our business effectively without
talking with, and listening to, the many groups our
In this report, which covers activity during 2002, business impacts. Discussion with stakeholders is a
we cover the issues that have generated significant part of our everyday work. This is very much a two-
interest from stakeholders. We have made good way relationship because the views and expectations
progress this year, including developing indicators of stakeholders directly affect us.
that will enable us to show our progress in
addressing these issues. We will continue to build We consult widely, both formally and in less formal
on these steps to increase the transparency of our ways. The diversity of our stakeholders, for example
operations. In this way we expect to give our patients, customers, healthcare professionals,
stakeholders the same confidence in the value governments, non-governmental organisations and
of our business that we feel ourselves. shareholders, inevitably gives rise to very different and
sometimes conflicting demands for us to consider.
Corporate responsibility is an integral part of We will continue our constructive engagement to
our business – it is inherent in the mission of guide us in running a successful business that
the company. GSK makes a significant positive contributes to meeting the needs of society.
contribution to society around the world, through
the medicines, vaccines and healthcare products
that we research, develop, manufacture and sell.
Sir Christopher Hogg JP Garnier
Chairman Chief Executive Officer
01GlaxoSmithKline researches,
develops, manufactures and
markets medicines and consumer
health products around the world.
The scope of our business...
over 100,000 employees
operating in 150 countries,
with more than 20 research
and development centres in
8 countries and production
facilities in 38 countries.
Key impact areas
R&D – DISEASES OF THE MEDICINES FOR THE COMMUNITY ETHICAL ISSUES
DEVELOPING WORLD DEVELOPING WORLD INVESTMENT IN R&D
Continuing our commitment Facilitating access to Improving the quality of Considering the questions
to find preventions and medicines and improving life of under-served people that arise from the research
treatments, particularly for health and education in the developed and and development of new
HIV/AIDS, malaria and TB through partnerships developing world medicines and vaccines
(page 7) (page 8) (page 13) (page 17)
02GlaxoSmithKline
The scope of our business
20 24 28
GlaxoSmithKline operates in the pharmaceutical and commercialise and support effective marketing of
consumer healthcare sectors, making prescription prescription medicines, vaccines and delivery systems
medicines, vaccines, over-the-counter medicines, for the treatment and prevention of human disease.
oral care and nutritional healthcare products. We employ over 15,000 staff in R&D and have more
than 20 R&D sites worldwide.
Our business is founded primarily on research and
development to discover, develop, register, Our portfolio of products ranges from tablets and
toothpaste to inhalers and capsules. We make over
36,000 different pack sizes and presentations.
FINANCIAL PROFILE 2002
We have a network of 95 manufacturing sites in
38 countries and employ more than 33,000 in
SALES £21,212m
manufacturing and related support functions.
TRADING PROFIT £6,694m
Each year we produce over four billion packs,
(BusinessPerformance)
which are delivered for sale in over 150 countries.
R&D SPEND £2,900m
The pharmaceutical industry is highly regulated, with
SALES
every stage from discovery to sales and marketing
closely controlled. Our stakeholders are many and
USA PHARMACEUTICALS 46%
their expectations can be very different.
EUROPE PHARMACEUTICALS 22%
INTERNATIONAL PHARMACEUTICALS 17%
Thus, size and complexity make this a challenging
CONSUMER HEALTHCARE 15%
business. This raises many questions about what we
Information on financial performance is available in do, and how and why we do it. Our main impacts on
the Annual Report and Accounts. society, and how we manage these, are described in
this report.
DEVELOPINGOUR SUPPORTING CARING FOR BUSINESS
EMPLOYEES HUMAN RIGHTS THE ENVIRONMENT ETHICS
Attracting, rewarding and Respecting the rights Using resources efficiently Ensuring our employees
motivating people in a safe and interests of all those and minimising negative understand and implement
and healthy workplace affected by and involved environmental impacts our Code of Conduct and
(page 21) in our business (page 25) policies for ensuring ethical
(page 22) business practices
(page 29)
03Our contribution to society
The main activity of our company is to In developed countries, because of the availability
of effective antibiotics and vaccines, we no longer
develop medicines, including vaccines,
expect our children to be at risk from infectious
that make a valuable contribution to diseases. The challenge is to extend these advances
to developing countries.
society. These medicines save lives,
The number of diseases where research has
relieve suffering, and treat and often
produced major advances continues to grow.
prevent disease. They improve the quality However, there is still much to do. The challenge
for our company is to continue to meet society’s
of life of patients and their carers. They expectations by developing innovative medicines
that enable people to live longer and healthier lives.
also enable people to carry on with
their lives and often reduce the cost ACCESS TO MEDICINES
We also want to play a part in improving the
of managing an illness. healthcare of people who currently have limited
access to our medicines. Our programmes in
developing countries are set out on page 7.
The positive effect our medicines have
In the US, we are helping to improve access
on people’s lives is one of the factors that
to medicines for low-income senior citizens and
motivates our employees. The nature of what
the disabled who lack prescription drug coverage
we do gives them the opportunity to make a
through public or private insurance programmes.
difference to the health of millions of people
In late 2001, GSK launched the Orange CardSM,
around the world.
which offers savings on the company’s prescription
medicines. This was the first programme of its
CHANGING EXPECTATIONS
kind in the US, with participants required simply
With advances in medicine, society has changed
to present the card to their pharmacists to receive
its expectations of healthcare. Diseases that once
the savings. In addition, last year GSK’s Patient
had a devastating impact are now controlled
Assistance Program provided medicines worth
through improved healthcare management and
over £112 million to more than 400,000 low
with better medicines and vaccines. This has led
income patients in the US who do not have
many people in the developed world to take good
medical insurance.
health for granted.
Following the positive response to the Orange Card3
For example, a generation ago polio was one of the
from patients, doctors, and companies, GSK and six
world’s most feared infectious diseases. Thanks to
other pharmaceutical companies launched a joint
the worldwide vaccination initiative co-ordinated by
scheme in 2002. The Together Rx™ Card4provides
the World Health Organization2and to the major
eligible senior citizens and the disabled in the US
contribution of our vaccines business, the global
with a single, easy-to-use card to receive savings
elimination of polio is in sight.
on the prescription medicines of the seven
companies involved.
‘‘GSK is opening up the door for
These programmes are having a real impact on the
significant savings to an estimated 10
lives of disadvantaged people across the US.
million Americans. That will make a
tremendous difference in the lives
of so many people.’’
Tommy ThompsonUS Secretary of Health and Human
Services on launch of the Orange Card
04Case study
Asthma-related deaths and hospital admissions have
declined, but the incidence of asthma is growing.
Asthma remains a major health issue worldwide.
We focus on what matters to patients, concentrating
on their quality of life.
DEVELOPMENT OF OUR DR VINCENT MCGOVERN, A GENERAL A Doctor’s Perspective– “As a GP who is also an
ASTHMATREATMENTS PRACTITIONER IN BELFAST, UK, GIVES HIS asthmatic, I find asthma a really satisfying condition
PERSPECTIVE ON ASTHMA MANAGEMENT to treat. It is common, with 5.1 million sufferers in
f1970sVentolin(bronchodilator)
AS BOTH A PATIENT AND A DOCTOR. the UK. In my practice, 80 per cent of the
Relieves breathlessness for
3-6 hours per dose asthmatics will have mild-to-moderate disease. I aim
A Patient’s Perspective– “The management to achieve total control of their symptoms using
f1970sBecotide/Beclovent
(corticosteroid) Reduces the of asthma has changed dramatically over the last current treatments, giving them a good quality of
inflammation in the lungs that 30 years. I was the child who wanted to play football, life. And the standard of patient care is getting
leads to asthma symptoms
but had to play in goal, who had rounded shoulders higher, either through specialised units or one-to-
f1990sSerevent(bronchodilator)
and a blue inhaler in every pocket. I remember one consultations with nurses or doctors. Asthma is
Relieves breathlessness for up to
12 hours per dose sleepless nights with emergency visits from the an area where national treatment guidelines have
doctor. When inhaled steroids became available they been adopted and have had a major impact on
f1990sFlixotide/Flovent
(corticosteroid) More effectively took away the sleepless nights. The development disease management.”
reduces the inflammation in the of new treatments has made a huge impact on my
lungs that leads to asthma
symptoms life. I still have asthma, but it’s well controlled by Over the last 30 years our R&D organisation has
preventative treatments. I certainly don’t notice produced improved medicines to treat asthma and
fTodaySeretide/Advair
(bronchodilator/corticosteroid) I have it, and nobody else does either.” better ways for them to be taken. These advances
The first asthma product that have been vital in enabling healthcare professionals
relieves breathlessness for up to
12 hours per dose and reduces to provide ever-improving patient care. However,
the inflammation that leads to asthma still causes suffering and even death, so we
asthma symptoms, in one easy
to use device will continue our research with the aim of further
improving the lives of the growing number of
people affected by this disease.
05In developing countries, millions of people lack access
to the most basic healthcare services. Life-threatening
diseases such as tuberculosis, malaria and HIV/AIDS
are contributing to a healthcare crisis.
06Medicines for the
developing world
The global community must provide political will,
a significant mobilisation of additional resources,
and a spirit of partnership if we are to see an
improvement in healthcare and quality of life
across the developing world.
GlaxoSmithKline is making a vital contribution DDW DEVELOPMENT PIPELINE at end of 2002
to healthcare in developing countries through
PRE-CLINICAL
action in three areas: investing in research ACTIVITY PHASE I PHASE II PHPAHSAE SIIEI III MARKETED
and development (R&D) that targets diseases Vaccines ✔ HIV Hepatitis E S. pSn. epunmeuomnioaneiae Havrix (hepatitis A)
particularly affecting the developing world; Dengue fever Rotavirus paepdaieadtriiactric Engerix B (hepatitis B)
Meningitis B Twinrix (hep A & B)
preferential pricing of our antiretrovirals, Malaria Infanrix (diptheria, tetanus,
N. meningitidis acellular pertussis)
anti-malarials and vaccines; and community Tritanrix (diptheria, tetanus,
wholecell pertussis)
investment activities and partnerships that Polio Sabin (polio)
Priorix (measles, mumps
foster effective healthcare5. We made and rubella)
Typherix (typhoid)
significant advances in each of these key Hiberix (haemophilus
influenzae type b)
areas during 2002.
HIV ✔ NNRTI integrase inhibitor ZiagZeiang/Eepni/vEipr ivir Retrovir
protease inhibitor comcobminbaitnioantion Epivir
Combivir
R&D FOR DISEASES OF THE DEVELOPING WORLD Ziagen
Trizivir
Research into diseases of the developing world Agenerase
protease inhibitor*
(DDW) is particularly important to address unmet
needs, and to minimise the intrinsic threat in all Malaria ✔ CDA tafetanfoeqnuoiqnueine Malarone
Halfan
infectious diseases of resistance developing to Lapdap*
existing treatments. TB ✔ sitamaquine
oxibendazole
Other sitasmitaamquaiqnueine Zentel
A dedicated DDW group has been created within oxiboexinbdeanzdoalezole
GSK’s R&D organisation to ensure a focus on this
* being registered and not yet marketed.
area. Projects are prioritised primarily on their
socio-economic and public health benefits rather R&D into diseases that primarily affect the developing
than their commercial returns. Our DDW research world, such as malaria, differs in important respects
is now focused in dedicated facilities at Tres Cantos from efforts aimed at diseases for which a developed
in Spain (see page 11). world market also exists, such as HIV/AIDS. The lack
of a commercially viable market for DDW treatments
We believe GSK has the industry’s most extensive means that public/private partnerships are essential.
portfolio of DDW R&D projects and marketed Major companies such as GSK can provide
products, and that we are the only company technological, development, manufacturing and
undertaking R&D into the prevention and treatment distribution expertise, while public sector partners
of all three of the World Health Organization’s can help fund development costs and ensure that
priority diseases in the developing world – HIV/AIDS, new medicines and vaccines get to the people who
tuberculosis and malaria. GSK focuses on these need them. The partnership approach encourages
three diseases. We are also an industry leader in R&D and accelerates the product’s uptake in the
collaborating with external partners that want developing world.
to use our specialist infrastructure or expertise.
07Our long-term commitment is now
NUMBER OF SUPPLY ARRANGEMENTS FOR ARVs
AND TYPE OFCUSTOMER
bearing fruit and we are hopeful that
140
we will be able to launch several new
120
products relevant to DDW over the 100
80
next five years.
60
40
20
0
Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1
20002001 2002 2003
Key
Employers NGOs AAI(Accelerating Access
Public Hospitals Govt Non AAI Initiative)
We will maintain broadly the current level of human Lapdapresults from a successful partnership
and financial resources dedicated to DDW as a between GSK, the World Health Organization,
proportion of our total R&D investment. We will the University of Liverpool, the London School
work assiduously, with partners when appropriate, of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine, and the UK
to ensure that any promising DDW drug is made Department for International Development (DFID)7.
available to patients as rapidly as possible. The R&D This is the first such product development to be
process is lengthy and risky. However, our long- directly sponsored by DFID.
term commitment is now bearing fruit and we are
hopeful that we will be able to launch several new PREFERENTIALPRICING
products relevant to DDW over the next five years. GSK recognises that it has a responsibility to make
its products as affordable as possible in the poorest
We have seen some notable progress in 2002. countries. We have offered our vaccines to public
In HIV/AIDS the first human clinical trials of our health programmes at significant discounts for over
HIV candidate vaccine commenced in February, in 20 years. We set a single, sustainable, not-for-profit
collaboration with the US Government’s National preferential price for each of our antiretrovirals
Institutes of Health HIV Vaccine Trials Network6. (ARVs) and anti-malarials to a wide range of
In conjunction with other partners, GSK continues to customers in the Least Developed Countries and
support 29 HIV clinical trials in developing countries, sub-Saharan Africa – a total of 63 countries. These
including 20 in Africa. The purpose of these trials is to customers include the public sector, not-for-profit
assess the use of antiretroviral therapy for treatment, NGOs, aid agencies, UN agencies, and international
and prevention of mother-to-child HIV transmission in purchase funds such as the Global Fund to fight
resource-poor settings. Over 10,000 patients form or AIDS, TB and Malaria. We also extend our offer
will form part of our HIV collaborative studies. Three of not-for-profit prices on ARVs to employers in
thousand of these patients will be included in the sub-Saharan Africa who provide care and treatment
DART Trial (Developing Antiretroviral Therapy) in through workplace clinics and similar arrangements.
Uganda and Zimbabwe, co-ordinated by the UK
Special ‘Access’ packs
Medical Research Council. GSK is committed to contributing to health
improvements in a sustainable manner, so we set
There has been progress in malaria too. In October our preferential prices for ARVs and anti-malarials
2002, we submitted a regulatory application to the at levels that cover direct costs but on which we do
UK Medicines Control Agency (MCA) for Lapdap not make a profit. In this way we can offer these
(chlorproguanil/dapsone) for the treatment of the prices for as long as patients need treatment8.
most life threatening type of the malaria. MCA
approval will be an important step in making Lapdap
available across Africa, where there is great need for
new malaria treatments.
08
stnemegnarra
ylppuSCUMULATIVE SHIPMENTS OF COMBIVIR TABLETS
(EXCLUDING DIVERTED PRODUCT)
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
0
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
2001 2002
We have pledged to pass on cost efficiencies as Additionally, in 2002, we started small-scale
shipments to the developing world increase. For shipments of a wider range of preferentially-priced
instance, in September 2002, we further reduced products to the five pilot projects we have in
the not-for-profit preferential prices of our HIV/AIDS partnership with NGOs in Tanzania, Uganda, Nigeria,
medicines by up to 33 per cent and our anti-malarial Zambia and Malawi. These projects are designed to
medicines by up to 38 per cent9. assess the impact of preferential pricing for a
broader range of products.
By the end of 2002, we had secured 124
arrangements to supply preferentially-priced ARVs COMMUNITY INVESTMENT PROGRAMMES
to 50 countries. This includes 49 arrangements made We have a wide range of partnerships in the
during 2002. These arrangements are with a wide developing world. Our focus is on health and
range of stakeholders, including governments, education programmes for under-served communities
NGOs, public hospitals and employers such as around the world10. In 2002, GSK invested over
Heineken and Anglo American, with whom we £12 million in its public health programmes.
commenced partnerships in 2002.
Our partners range from the World Health
As a result, we increased shipments of Combivir Organization and the World Bank to local schools
to the developing world from 2.2 million tablets and community-based organisations. Where possible,
in 2001 to nearly 6 million tablets in 2002 – the we ensure that our programmes are sustainable and
equivalent of about 3 million daily doses. These can be repeated in communities with similar needs.
figures exclude the product destined for patients
in Africa which was diverted back to Europe. The Our programmes comprise major initiatives in public
victims of this trade are HIV/AIDS patients in Africa health, support for education, product donations,
and the only beneficiaries are the illegal importers. and support for employee involvement activities.
GSK has introduced special ‘Access’ packs to make Our public health programmes, for example, include:
this illegal trade more difficult. We look to regulatory
authorities and our customers to also take measures The Global Alliance to Eliminate Lymphatic
to prevent diversion. Filariasis – GSK is a key partner in the global effort
to eliminate lymphatic filariasis (LF), also known as
GSK’s ability to provide preferential prices to the elephantiasis. This is a disabling and disfiguring
developing world requires a sustainable framework. disease that currently affects 120 million people,
Our commitment to preferential pricing must be and threatens a further one billion, in some of
combined with commitments from others to prevent the poorest nations of the world11.
product diversion and to avoid referencing developed
country prices against preferentially-priced medicines.
Clearly diversion threatens this framework.
09
)snoillim(
deppihS
stelbaTOur partners range from the World
Health Organization and the World Bank
to local schools and community-based
organisations.
GSK is a founding member of the partnership that Positive Action programme– In 2002, GSK’s
includes the World Health Organization, the Ministries international programme of HIV education, care
of Health of the LF-endemic countries, and 40 and community support, backed 25 international
organisations in the public, private and academic programmes in 32 countries12. Activities funded by
sectors. GSK donates its antiparasitic drug albendazole, Positive Action support the two-year ‘Live and Let
one of three drugs used to stop transmission of the Live’ World AIDS Campaign launched by UNAIDS on
disease. Over the anticipated 20-year life of the World AIDS Day 2002. For example, Positive Action-
programme, this commitment will build to an funded studies by the International Center for
estimated six billion tablets as more countries join. Research on Women, conducted in Ethiopia,
In addition, we provide significant financial resources Tanzania and Zambia, have confirmed that societal
and staff expertise to support coalition-building, discrimination based on HIV fuels the spread of
advocacy, research, community mobilisation, and AIDS. Positive Action also announced funding for
educational initiatives. new community initiatives in Kenya and Mexico13.
During the 14th International AIDS Conference,
In 2002, the fourth year of the programme, 66 million held in Barcelona in July 2002, Positive Action
tablets (worth £8.7 million) were donated to 31 contributed over £90,000 to support attendance
countries, bringing the total number of albendazole and participation of community representatives
tablets donated to date to 145 million. Grants totalling from under-resourced regions.
£750,000 were also made. A huge mobilisation of
effort is required for the fight against LF. This is The GSKFrance Foundation– supports
exemplified by the more than 45,000 health workers programmes that prevent the risk of vertical
and volunteers in Sri Lanka who worked together to transmission of HIV; provide medical care,
deliver preventative medicines to 9 million people in monitoring and treatment; and improve access and
a single day in July 2002. quality of care for people living with HIV. In 2002,
the Foundation supported 13 programmes involving
42,000 people as part of a four year £1.3 million
commitment in eight African countries14.
African Malaria Partnership (AMP) –in November
three organisations were selected to share grants
totalling £1.0 million over three years under the
AMP. Through this programme, GSK is funding
behavioural development initiatives to combat a
disease that kills over one million people every year.
1999 2000 2001 2002 In total nearly two million people will be reached by
the programmes in the seven countries involved15.
10
snoilliM
“GlaxoSmithKline has much to be proud of in improving
healthcare in the developing world through its drug distribution,
research and development, and community activities. The world’s
attention is focused on private companies and governments as
we work together.”
Constance A. CarrinoDirector, Office of HIV/AIDS, USAID
LF ELIMINATION PROGRAMME
80 145 million albendazole tablets
donated to date
60
40
20
0
Years
Key
Estimated patients treated (m) Tablets donated (m)Case study
GSK’s research into Diseases of the
Developing World (DDW) is centred on
dedicated R&D facilities in Tres Cantos,
Spain. This is in addition to our HIV/AIDS
and vaccines R&D programmes.
GSK’s Tres Cantos site houses major elements The Tres Cantos group is fully integrated with the
of our R&D high-throughput screening activities rest of GSK’s R&D in order to ensure that we can
and GSK’s commercial operations in Spain. bring all the relevant skills, technologies and
However, we have now also concentrated our resources to bear to achieve success in developing
DDW drug research in TB and malaria – efforts such discoveries. In this regard, GSK’s advantages
with a long history in GSK – into dedicated of scale and our networks with key external
facilities on the site, with a full-time research partners are important.
staff committed solely to DDW.
In particular, access to GSK’s world-wide clinical
As well as the centre’s TB and malaria focus, ideas development organisation is vital for the effective
and drug candidates for treating other neglected conduct of clinical trials. However, the DDW group
diseases of the developing world are pursued at Tres Cantos, and its associated DDW drug
opportunistically, and the development of existing development team in London, can also call on
GSK drug candidates for such diseases will continue. GSK’s expertise and staff in many other areas,
such as screening, pre-clinical development and
The Tres Cantos DDW scientific staff provide the regulatory affairs.
wide range of skills – including chemistry, biology
and toxicology – needed to better understand the
disease targets and identify novel drug candidates
for further development. Such a concentration of
resources and skills maximises our ability to discover
new medicines for DDW.
11The total value of our community investment
activities in 2002 was £239 million.
Project HOPEairlift of
GSK antibiotics to
Tajikistan. Our product
donations for humanitarian
relief reached 73 countries
in 2002.
12Community investment
The focus for GlaxoSmithKline’s community
investments is on improving health and education.
Our programmes extend to both the developed
and developing world, and most of our efforts are
targeted at improving the quality of life of people
in under-served communities.
We work with partner organisations around by a decade of steady immigration of refugees from
the world to ensure that the right blend of Afghanistan. As a member of the Partnership for
expertise is applied to each of our programmes, Quality Medical Donations, GSK has fully endorsed
and we select partners who have the best and agreed to follow the WHO Guidelines for
experience and skills for each initiative. Drug Donations18.
Programmes are selected on the basis of
community need, not for their potential impact Our public health programmes are directed to
on GSK’s commercial business or to increase areas where specific diseases are prevalent. This
sales of our products. We fund programmes that means that our HIV/AIDS community programme,
are measurable, sustainable and replicable and Positive Action, has global reach; our effort to
we work closely with our partners to ensure eliminate the parasitic disease, lymphatic filariasis,
their success16. is focused on endemic countries in the developing
world; and our African Malaria Partnership is
WORLDWIDE COMMUNITY CONTRIBUTION directed to the continent that bears the greatest
GSK’s community investment and charitable burden of the disease (see page 10).
contributions in 2002 totalled £239 million, of which
£112 million was related to the company’s Patient In the developed world too, our community
Assistance Program for financially disadvantaged programmes support communities in need.
patients in the US. Our corporate regional public Our SHARE programme in the US and Canada
health and humanitarian relief programmes aim to targets health in elderly, racial and ethnic minority
serve communities with the greatest needs. To meet communities. We are providing monetary awards
local needs GSK operating companies also support for innovation and sharing best practice on reducing
numerous local community programmes. health inequality among these vulnerable groups19.
GSK product donations for humanitarian relief are
made through charitable partner organisations that
have experience in delivering humanitarian relief. We fund programmes that
These charities decide where and when our product
are measurable, sustainable
donations are most needed, and work with
governments of recipient countries to ensure that
and replicable and we work
they arrive safely and are distributed appropriately.
For example, a donation of almost half a million closely with our partners to
treatments of our antibiotic Augmentinwas part
ensure their success.
of an airlift of vital medicines into Tajikistan in
October 2002 organised by Project HOPE17.
Already struggling to overcome the effects of
civil war, Tajikistan has been further challenged
13In 2002, the International Business Leaders Forum
Award for International Corporate Citizenship was
made to GSK for our PHASE programme which
provides hygiene education for school children.
“As a charity, Plan UK has been very impressed by GSK’s approach
to partnership. They have been willing to consult with local
communities, to develop materials which are easy to use, relevant
to local culture and save children’s lives.”
Marie StauntonExecutive Director of Plan International
“The PHASE programme is making a real difference to the health
and well-being of local communities and is an excellent example
of the positive role that business can have in society.”
Robert DaviesChief Executive of the International Business Leaders Forum
METHOD OF GIVING
(including USPatient
Assistance Program)
In the UK, as part of a broad commitment to science
TYPE OF PROGRAMME
education, we have committed up to £1 million over (excluding USPatient Assistance Program)
four years to fund INSPIRE (INnovative Scheme for
Public Health Programmes (including LF) 10%
Post-docs In Research and Education), a programme
to boost science education in schools20. This Product Donations 12%
supports selected schools applying to become
Corporate and Regional Programmes 11%
42% Science Colleges under the UK government’s
Specialist Schools Programme. Local Programmes 67%
Cash GSK provides support in many different ways,
for example, through donating money, products,
and other in-kind donations such as office furniture,
computers and surplus laboratory equipment.
Our product donations are valued at wholesale
1%
acquisition cost which relates to the price GSK
charges wholesalers and warehousing chains,
not the retail price.
In Kind
The company follows the London Benchmarking
Group21model of recording our community
investments. This recognised model provides
57% a standard basis for companies to manage and
report their commitments to the community.
Product
14Case study
A wide range of seriously debilitating and life-
threatening diseases thrive in the poor living
conditions found in many countries of the
developing world. In Africa alone, over 3.5 million
children die each year from diarrhoeal disease.
In 1998 GSK launched an initiative called PHASE having containers for handwashing, pit latrines
– Personal Hygiene And Sanitation Education – and refuse pits.
to provide hygiene education for school
children, with the aim of reducing diarrhoea- Evaluation of the Kenyan programme has shown
related disease and deaths associated with that, as a result of PHASE, children have a better
poor hygiene. understanding of the causes of diarrhoea and
worm infestations, and know about ways to
PHASE started in partnership with AMREF (African prevent infection. Teachers have seen improvements
Medical and Research Foundation) and operates in school attendance and report that children are
in Kenya, Nicaragua and Peru, where GSK has now much cleaner and take better care of their
committed £1.2 million for its roll-out. In Latin personal hygiene. Data from one class show that
America, GSK works with the child-focused the percentage of children who knew that washing
development charity Plan International. In Kenya, hands after going to the toilet could prevent worms
83,000 children in 247 schools are benefiting from increased from 20 per cent before PHASE to
this basic education, while in Nicaragua it will 45 per cent afterwards.
reach over 27,000 primary school children and
20,000 in Peru. The success of the programme has been such that
the Kenyan government has incorporated PHASE
PHASE empowers children and their families into the national curriculum, increasing the
to take responsibility for their own health and likelihood of these benefits being available to
sanitation. Communities around the participating other parts of Kenya.
schools have also benefited, with most homes now
15We understand the need to balance the benefits
that patients gain from new medicines with any
risks or ethical considerations relating
to new technologies.
16Research and
development
GlaxoSmithKline aims to produce safe and effective
medicines and vaccines that benefit patients by
addressing their unmet medical needs. To do this,
we need to use the most recent advances in science
and technology to understand diseases and to
identify and test drugs.
If we are unable to take advantage of We encourage staff to devise alternative approaches
THE “THREE RS”
advances, patients will not have the best to animal research through internal Animal Welfare IN ANIMAL RESEARCH
treatments. We understand concerns about Awards. GSK sponsors the largest European award
technological advances in the R&D process, in this field – the GSK Laboratory Animal Welfare
and welcome informed debate. Prize22. Inspections by national regulatory
authorities acknowledge the high standards of care
REDUCE
The R&D process is highly regulated, wherever and compliance in our facilities. To ensure that we
we operate. As scientific advances raise new issues, meet best practice, our US and UK animal facilities
we work closely with the regulators, policy makers are accredited by the Association for Assessment
and stakeholders to develop any new or refined & Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care23, and
standards. We have our own internal standards and we are working to extend this to our other facilities.
systems to ensure that we comply with or exceed
REFINE
all guidelines, regulations and legal requirements. We believe that the best way to address public
interest in animal research is to foster greater
THE ESSENTIAL ROLE OF ANIMAL RESEARCH knowledge and understanding of the facts.
Basic research using animals is vital to furthering We also believe that this is the most effective way
our understanding of human disease. Animal to help combat the climate of fear and intimidation
studies also provide an essential bridge between being promoted by animal extremist groups. We
REPLACE
characterising potential new medicines and vaccines therefore provide information to support rational
in the laboratory and learning about their effects public debate, actively participate in such discussions
in people. By law, we must assess drug safety ourselves and host tours of our animal facilities
in animals before starting clinical trials. We are where possible. We also welcome government
committed to the three Rs – to reduce, refine and actions to protect our staff, laboratory animals Reducethe number of animals
used in medicines R&D to the
replace animal studies – and set stringent standards and research collaborators from extremist actions.
minimum possible to obtain
internally and for our external contractors. We We visit schools to discuss relevant ethical issues,
meaningful, validated results.
ensure that all GSK staff conducting animal studies for example, involving over 2000 UK pupils in
are thoroughly trained. such discussions in the 2001-2 school year. Refineanimal experimental
procedures to avoid or minimise
Information on GSK’s use of animals in research is available
pain or discomfort, and to
We reduce the number of animals used in research on our website 24.
maximise the information
wherever we can without compromising the safety
obtained from each study
of volunteers and patients in clinical trials, and we and each animal.
We are obliged by law
seek as much information as possible from each
animal study. The number of animals used in our to assess drug safety in Replacethe need for animal
studies by developing and
laboratories has therefore remained essentially
validating alternative approaches
animals before starting
constant over the last eight years in spite of a
wherever feasible.
significant increase in our R&D activity (see chart,
clinical trials.
page 18). We use animals more humanely by using,
for example, non-invasive imaging (see page 19).
17Rapid technological advances have provided
us with the tools to make major progress in
the fight against disease.
1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001
TESTING NEW MEDICINES IN CLINICAL TRIALS The Principles reflect the importance of independent
GSK’s aim, to develop medicines and vaccines that Institutional Review Boards or Ethical Review
benefit patients, is reflected in the priority we give Committees in protecting patients and volunteers
to protecting the interests of healthy volunteers involved in clinical trials. GSK fully supports these
and patients who take part in our clinical trials. guidelines, which reiterate the need to obtain
The regulatory authorities rigorously scrutinise the genuinely informed consent before any clinical
initiation and conduct of clinical trials and related procedure is undertaken, an obligation that GSK
activities. The need to respect the rights, dignity, extends to include acquiring and using human
safety and well-being of clinical trial participants is biological samples such as tissues and DNA. The
enshrined in declarations and guidelines produced Principles also summarise the safeguards the
by the World Medical Association, World Health industry, including GSK, adopts to ensure that the
Organization, Council of the International reimbursement of patients’ and external clinical
Organisations of Medical Sciences, Council investigators’ expenses is not an inappropriate
of Europe, the International Conference on inducement to participate in clinical trials, or to bias
Harmonisation (ICH) and government bodies. the results that are reported. Regulatory authorities’
GSK fully complies with the relevant regulations and requirements for financial disclosure further protect
national requirements, and with guidelines such as the public interest in this area.
ICH Good Clinical Practice. When regulations and
guidelines are periodically reviewed and revised The Principles articulate the industry’s, and GSK’s,
to ensure that they fully address the interests of practice of seeking to publish the meaningful results
patients, GSK actively contributes to the discussions of controlled clinical trials, regardless of the outcome,
on the basis of our extensive global experience. in a timely manner. This includes giving clinical trialists
the appropriate level of access to the raw data and
In our last review, we summarised our rigorous their interpretation.
procedures to ensure patient safety and the privacy
of their medical information. We have recently
strengthened procedures to avoid information being
sent to GSK by external investigators that would
enable us to identify trial participants. However,
we know that the conduct of clinical trials raises
ethical issues and we therefore worked with other
companies in 2002 to establish the new PhRMA
Principles on the Conduct of Clinical Trials and
Communication of Clinical Trial Results25.
18
4991
ecnis
egnahc
%
CHANGE IN R&D ACTIVITY COMPARED WITH CHANGE IN
NUMBER OF ANIMALS USED BY GSK
200
150
100
50
0
Years
Figures normalised to 1994 levels Key Animals used R&D activityCase study
Non-invasive imaging techniques such as
magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) can provide
new and more relevant scientific information in
ways not previously possible.
REFINING RESEARCH USING ANIMALS Serial MRI allows respiratory biologists to study lung
When studying a disease or the effect of a drug inflammation in rats that mimics some aspects of
over a period of time, animals would previously human asthma. The same animals are scanned,
have had to be humanely killed and the organs minimising discomfort, for several weeks. This allows
removed for microscopic examination at each chronic inflammatory and other responses to be
time-point. MRI enables the same animal to be studied, and the beneficial effects of standard and
repeatedly assessed at each time-point so the new drugs to be measured. The MRI approach
number of animals used is reduced. typically requires 24 animals for a study that would
require more than 500 if undertaken using
Moreover, we can get more detailed information conventional microscopy approaches.
about the progress of a disease by more frequent
scanning than would be possible if every time-point Similar approaches are being taken in our other
needed a separate group of animals and resource- research areas, such as neurology, psychiatry and
intensive technologies such as microscopic cardiovascular diseases, as well as in preclinical
examination. Importantly, each animal can often safety assessment. The cumulative beneficial impact
be used as its own control so the statistical power on
of these studies is enhanced even when using far the number of animals used and on data quality is
fewer animals. therefore very significant.
19GSK employs over 100,000 people and
operates in more than 150 countries.
20Valuing people
People are the greatest single source
of competitive advantage for any company.
At GlaxoSmithKline, we believe that attracting,
retaining and motivating the very best people
is the foundation for our future success.
We are committed to providing the opportunity The survey results were generally very positive,
for our employees to do meaningful and showing that managers take great pride in being
challenging work in pursuit of our goal to part of GSK. For example, there was overwhelming
improve the quality of human life by enabling support for the statements that “people in my
people to do more, feel better and live longer. department show commitment to performance with
integrity”, “my department is a focused organisation
Last year we reported on the principles that underpin with a sense of urgency” and “I would gladly refer
our approach to people management, and a range of a good friend or family member to GSK for
programmes which were designed to deliver our global employment”. These findings show that managers
human resources strategy. We are now pleased to believe that the GSKSpirit is reflected in the way
report the progress we have made and set out, where they and others are working day to day.
we are able, how we intend in future to measure our
performance on issues such as diversity. The results also raised important areas for further
development. These included concerns about whether
THE GSK CULTURE people are able to perform to their full potential, the
At GSK, great emphasis is placed not only on what extent to which managers are able to act as coaches
we must achieve as a company, but also on how to support development, and the degree of staff
we deliver our achievements. Our culture is summed involvement in decisions that affect their work. These
up in the GSK Spirit which defines the qualities issues are all being addressed by GSK’s Corporate
we expect all our employees to embrace: Executive Team. For example, a programme has been
put in place to reduce complexity and bureaucracy in
• performance with integrity the company and to streamline processes to help free
• entrepreneurial spirit up managers to do their best work.
• focus on innovation
• a sense of urgency
• passion for achievement
The survey results were
Developing the GSK culture is critical to enabling
generally very positive,
people to reach their potential and do their best
work. We therefore carried out a survey in 2002 of showing that managers
10,000 managers to assess how well the Spirit and
take great pride in being
culture is being adopted. We sought views on the
experience of working for GSK, including both what
part of GSK.
managers considered was being done well and what
areas needed further work.
21We are fundamentally committed to
the principles of equality of opportunity
and equal treatment.
DIVERSITY ETHNICITYOFUSEMPLOYEEPOPULATION, 2002
Diversity is a business imperative for GSK; we
are committed to the principles of equality of
opportunity and equal treatment. We aim to have 19%
a workforce and working environment that reflects
the diversity of background, culture, beliefs
People of
and characteristics of the communities in which colour
we operate.
We are therefore embedding the values of diversity Total US employees 24,000
and equal treatment into our key business processes.
For employees, this means that diversity measures are
included in manager and employee training, external HUMAN RIGHTS
recruitment and internal appointment processes, GSK believes that on human rights issues, we
performance assessments and pay reviews, can lead by example and thereby influence the
succession planning and developmental assignments. behaviours and practices of others through clear
demonstration of our own values. Our most effective
For customers and stakeholders, it includes contribution can be made through pursuing policies
the development of measures to reach targeted in our own operations that respect the rights and
customers, outreach programmes for specific interests of all those affected by and involved in
patient groups and advertising that reflects the our business. GSKsupports and is committed to
many communities we serve. upholding the United Nations Universal Declaration
of Human Rights26and the core labour standards
We believe that our diversity strategy will show clear set out by the International Labour Organization27.
progress against the baseline figures we report this
year (see below). We will report changes annually. During 2002, we carried out an internal review
which demonstrated that, wherever we operate
as an employer, we believe we are complying with
GLOBAL SENIOR MANAGEMENT POPULATION BY
the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and
GENDER 2002
Men Women the core conventions of the International Labour
Organization, and according to the Guidelines
Bands A & B* 583 (81%) 134 (19%)
for Multinational Enterprises set by the OECD28.
Bands C 1-3** 2708 (70%) 1159 (30%)
Conducted through the Head of Human Resources
Bands C 4 & 5*** 4409 (65%) 2343 (35%)
for each country, the review was also used to
Total 7700 (68%) 3636 (32%) build awareness and understanding of human
rights issues.
* Corporate Executive Team and Vice-Presidents/Senior Vice Presidents
** Director Level
***Manager Level Also during the year, we began to put in place
binding requirements to ensure that our major
With the exception of the US (see ethnicity chart), contractors and suppliers adopt GSK’s standards
we do not have meaningful data on the ethnicity of on human rights and core labour standards.
our employees because of the different ways ethnic
groups are described in different countries and,
in some cases, because of legal restrictions on
collecting these data.
22Case study
Our promotion of diversity within GSK has
had a powerful effect on the way we think
about the needs of our customers.
Ensuring that our medicines benefit the widest Building on this success, cultural awareness training
possible number of patients is at the heart of was extended to all sales groups across the US
our mission to enable people to do more, feel during 2002. This approach is also being used
better and live longer. In 2001, one of GSK’s in GSK’s US Pharma marketing departments
General Pharma sales and marketing units in to increase multicultural awareness and
the US made it a key business objective to understanding relating to each of our brands.
improve access to GSK medicines to patients
from ethnic minority communities. In addition, through our multi-language patient
education programme, we are supporting US
The unit operates in a part of southern California healthcare professionals in raising awareness of
with a particularly high population of Vietnamese, diseases and disease management among groups
Koreans, Armenians, Central Americans and with limited command of English. Disease education
Mexicans. materials on asthma, migraine, rhinitis and
depression are being provided by GSK sales
The sales teams had specific training on cultural representatives in a number of languages including
awareness to improve their understanding of their Spanish, Chinese, Vietnamese, Korean and Russian.
customers and their particular needs. As a result,
doctors are better able to use GSK products,
with benefits for individual patients and for
these communities.
23GSK has a comprehensive programme to characterise
the physical and chemical properties, environmental
fate and effects, and occupational health effects of
our products and chemical processes.
24Environment,
health and safety
As a responsible global citizen,
GlaxoSmithKline strives to preserve
the environment and protect the
health of people who work for us.
We have a comprehensive framework of Although many of the contractors on our sites do
environmental, health and safety programmes not work under our direct supervision, their safety is
that provide the structure for our approach. as important as that of our employees. We apply the
This is based on EHS Standards that apply, same standards to them, and monitor their health
without exception, to all of our sites around and safety. For external contractors working for GSK,
the world. the lost time injury and illness rate was similar to the
rate for our own employees.
Environmental sustainability is the basis of our
environmental programmes. After addressing the We improve our EHS performance by having strong
potential for adverse impacts from our wastes, EHS management systems and programmes in place.
our approach to achieving sustainability is to focus Four examples are given below.
on improving the efficiency of our manufacturing
processes to minimise the materials used and EHS information for our products and processes
waste generated, and then to optimise the use GSK has a comprehensive programme to
of renewable raw materials. characterise the physical and chemical properties,
environmental fate and effects, and occupational
Our occupational health and safety programmes health effects of our products and chemical
focus on protecting and enhancing the health and processes. This information helps us to:
safety of our employees, reflecting the value we
place on people. fdesign and operate our production and control
systems to protect our employees and the
IMPROVEMENT TARGETS communities in which we operate.
Our EHS performance targets are set against finform our employees and the public about
baseline performance in 2001, the first full year the hazards of materials to help them understand
of GSK’s operations, and are to be achieved by how to handle them safely.
the end of 2005. For environmental emissions,
company-wide targets have been set by One of GSK’s dry powder devices
consolidating individual site targets.
Our health and safety target is to reduce lost time
injuries and illnesses by 15 per cent each year to
2005, from a baseline rate in 2001 of 0.43 lost
time injuries and illnesses for each 100,000 hours
worked. Preliminary data for 2002 indicate that we
will meet this target for the year. Final verified results
will be on our website, www.gsk.com.
251998 1999 2000 2001 2005
enilesab
1002
fo
%
Contract manufacturers decommissioning or sale. GSK has spent over
GSK uses contract manufacturers in a number £100 million to date and expects to spend about
of countries to supply certain products for local £30 million on further remediation at existing sites.
markets and, in a few cases, for specialist processes When designing and implementing remediation
or technologies. They are an integral part of the projects, we work with government agencies and
product supply chain so we work with them to local communities to use the best technologies
prevent adverse events and ensure the reliability available to clean up the land to allow return to
of product supply. To ensure that these companies other use such as community parklands.
are managing EHS risks and impacts responsibly,
conformance with GSK requirements and legislation At most of these sites, land has been contaminated
is assessed through a programme of EHS audits due to past storage and disposal practices, including
conducted by our EHS Global Audit Team. poor containment or accidental releases at
commercial disposal sites. The global standards and
The audits cover general management of EHS systems we now have in place to cover all phases of
and control of key risks and impacts. Areas for waste management are designed to prevent future
improvement are highlighted to the contract incidents that could contaminate land.
manufacturer and progress is monitored. In 2002,
16 key contract manufacturers/suppliers were assessed. ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE
Both GSK’s heritage companies realised the benefit
Ozone depletion and chlorofluorocarbon (CFC) of setting targets to improve environmental
elimination –Metered dose inhalers (MDIs) are performance. Improvement projects were started in
the most common way that asthmatics receive the 1980s and will continue into the future. The chart
their medication. However, many MDIs use as below illustrates the improvements already achieved in
propellants CFCs that are ozone depleting and air emissions (VOC), wastewater discharges (COD) and
global warming gases. hazardous waste disposed in the three years leading
up to the GSK baseline of 2001.
Currently GSK has an extensive plan containing
over 10,000 milestones to eliminate CFCs from The most recent performance data against EHS
our MDIs. Progress is excellent with 68 per cent of targets are available on our website29.
the actions completed. In 2002, for the first time
since the transition began, GSK manufactured over
EXAMPLES OF ENVIRONMENTAL
100 million non-CFC MDIs and launched our first PERFORMANCE IMPROVEMENTS
non-CFC MDI in the US, CFC-free Ventolin. Coupled
200
with offering a wide choice of dry powder devices
we are confident in our ability to transition away 150
from CFCs. We therefore believe that the Montreal
TARGET
100 Protocol ‘essential-use’ exemption that allows the
manufacture of CFCs for salbutamol/albuterol
50
(the active ingredient in Ventolin) MDIs, and the
marketing of salbutamol/albuterol MDIs containing 0
CFCs, is no longer necessary.
Year
Contaminated land Figures normalised by sales
We are currently studying or actively cleaning up Key
VOC(Volatile Organic Compounds emitted to air)
31 sites that are classed as contaminated land.
COD(Chemical Oxygen Demand in wastewater)
We are also remediating a number of our former HWD(Hazardous Waste Disposed)
manufacturing sites in preparation for their
26Case study
Innovative approaches delivered an
excellent safety record during the
construction of GSK’s new Horlicks
plant in India.
GSK has recently completed building a new This was a new approach for a major greenfield
factory at Sonepat in the north of India to meet site construction project in India, where historically
growing demand in the country for Horlicks, projects of this type do not involve a high level
one of GSK’s most popular nutritional drinks. of attention to health and safety, and where formal
safety training is not common. As a result of these
The project involved over 17,000 construction initiatives, accomplished in partnership with
personnel and a total of 13.4 million hours of construction management and subcontract
work over 3.5 years. At its peak, there were 1,900 companies, Sonepat returned one of the best
workers on the site at one time. Most workers were lost-time accident figures seen in projects within
on site for less than 60 days, so ensuring that the GSK and its legacy companies. Benefits of the
changing workforce was made aware of the safety health and safety planning were demonstrated
and health issues was a significant challenge. immediately and improved over the course of the
project so that the last 6.6 million hours were
Health and safety were given priority when worked without any lost-time injuries or illnesses.
construction was planned, and appropriate A lasting benefit of this project is the future
programmes were put in place on the site. These application of lessons learned in creating a
included providing a 24-hour site health facility, safety culture.
so that injuries and illnesses could be treated early and
workers did not need to leave the site for treatment. This project won the 2002 EHS Initiative Award
Induction training for new workers emphasised safety, which is sponsored by the Chief Executive Officer.
inspectors monitored high-risk areas on the site, and It was selected by a panel of judges representing
weekly talks on safety topics and special training academia, government, NGOs and GSK’s Board
programmes for scaffolders were held. of Directors.
27High standards of honesty and integrity are vital
to the success of our business.“Performance with
integrity”is the principle by which we aim to live
and work at GSK.
28Business ethics and integrity
GlaxoSmithKline’s Code of Conduct lays out the
principles that the company values and that employees
should apply in their daily work. It is the responsibility
of each employee to implement the Code to sustain
the trust and confidence of all GSK’s stakeholders.
CORPORATEETHICSAND COMPLIANCE The framework includes a Risk Oversight and
GSK is committed to operating within the law Compliance Council, as well as sector and other
and to the highest ethical standards. The healthcare business unit risk management and compliance
industry is highly regulated and the discovery, boards. The Risk Oversight and Compliance Council
development, manufacturing and marketing of and boards assist in the identification and mitigation
medicines are complex processes. Thus, we aim to of risks and provide guidance on risk management
build adherence to high standards into the everyday initiatives at the corporate and business unit levels.
management processes of these activities.
The Risk Oversight and Compliance Council reports
Formal company polices and procedures set out to the Audit Committee of the GSK Board and the
the expected standards of conduct, but effective Chief Executive Officer, and will also report to the
communication and training on these standards, Corporate Executive Team. The reporting line to
followed by regular monitoring and periodic review the Audit Committee provides a mechanism for
of work output, are critical. While lawyers and bypassing the executive management if irregularities
compliance officers are closely involved in establishing are ever identified.
and communicating standards, GSK emphasises the
personal responsibility of employees and their line GSK RISK MANAGEMENT & COMPLIANCE FRAMEWORK
managers for ensuring that all employees observe
these principles in their everyday work. To support Corporate Social
Audit Committee GSK BOARD
Responsibility Committee
this we undertake ethics training through computer-
based sessions and interactive discussions.
CEO
The Corporate Ethics and Compliance function at
GSK is responsible for supporting the development CET BUSINESSANDFUNCTIONHEADS
and implementation of practices that facilitate
employees’ compliance with laws and company
RISK OVERSIGHT AND COMPLIANCE COUNCIL (ROCC)
policy. Specialist compliance officers support
our main operations of Pharmaceuticals, Consumer
Healthcare, R&D and Manufacturing. BUSINESS UNIT OR FUNCTIONAL RISK MANAGEMENT AND COMPLIANCE BOARDS
An internal control framework integrates ethics
BUSINESS AND FUNCTIONAL GROUPS
and compliance with the day-to-day management
of the Group. This framework supports line
POTENTIAL RISKS AND RISK-GENERATING ACTIVITIES AND FUNCTIONS
management in the identification and mitigation
of significant risks, among which are potential
compliance failures.
29Confidential toll-free lines to
compliance officers are available for
employees to report concerns.
GSK POLICIES
The GSK Code of Conduct and all GSK policies are
available on our internal website. In 2002, a guide
to business conduct was published on the internal
website to support employees’ understanding and
implementation of these standards. The guide
summarises policies and explains the company’s
expectations on business ethics and good business
conduct.
NOTIFICATION SYSTEMS
Confidential Integrity Help Lines to compliance
officers are available for employees to report concerns
they feel are not being dealt with adequately through
the normal management system.
These Help Lines are available to employees in
the UK and US, reaching about half the total GSK
workforce. Other employees can take advantage of
e-mail access to a compliance officer, or can report
concerns through a confidential post office box
maintained by Corporate Ethics and Compliance.
The Help Lines are primarily used for consultations
and by employees to ask questions. As a result,
the number of callers and inquiries received by
compliance officers tends to increase in response
to training or to changes in or issuance of new
policies. Activity levels reflect greater awareness
of policies and legal requirements rather than trends
in unacceptable practices. Response levels indicate
that the existence of the systems and their purpose
are well understood.
30Case study
Senior managers in GSK are expected
to lead by example by working in line
with the Code of Conduct and other
GSK policies and in supporting their
staff to do the same.
To ensure their understanding of this fAll people under their supervision have received
responsibility, in 2002 GSK introduced a copies of, or have access to, the GSK Code of
certification process around the world for Conduct and other GSK policies, and understand
managers at the vice-president level and above. their responsibilities.
Certification requires these managers to sign In 2002, around 700 managers – all those at vice-
a statement confirming their awareness of their president level and above – completed certifications.
obligations to implement the company Code of We believe this process will further support the
Conduct and policies. This includes confirming that: dissemination and awareness of GSK ethical
standards and the Code of Conduct and their
fThey know they are personally obliged to comply importance to thousands of other GSK employees
with applicable laws, regulations, and GSK’s who, in the course of their daily activities, must
corporate and local policies and procedures. work in line with the law and GSK policies.
fThey accept their responsibility to put in place
appropriate measures to ensure that the people
under their supervision are aware of their own
obligations.
31Management of CSR
Contributing to improving people’s lives as a
responsible corporate citizen is an integral and
established part of our business practice.
Our corporate and social responsibility (CSR) We also believe that stakeholder discussion on
activities, including those covered in this report, anything that requires specialist knowledge is best
are managed in the most appropriate functions undertaken by those with such expertise. Hence
in the organisation rather than through a central the team representatives discuss issues directly with
department. We believe this is the most effective those who have expressed an interest or concern,
approach to managing the issues because they and central co-ordination means that broader
remain an integrated part of the everyday issues are brought to the attention of the
operation of the business. cross-functional team.
To facilitate policy development, implementation GSK has a process in place for identifying, evaluating
and communication, a cross-functional team was and managing significant business risks, and this
established at the beginning of 2002 to ensure includes reputational and corporate responsibility
a comprehensive and co-ordinated approach. The issues. Our risk management process accords with
team is made up of representatives from the key the Turnbull guidance and our formal risk assessment
business areas who ensure that policies are in place is updated at least once a year. The Risk Oversight
and mechanisms exist for their implementation and and Compliance Council (see page 29) coordinates
monitoring. The representatives also contribute to internal control and risk management activities to
reporting progress through this report and in other ensure effective management of significant risks.
ways, for example through conference presentations
and on our website. During the year, the CSR committee of Non-
Executive Board members gave advice on how
During the year this cross-functional team developed we report our activities, and had specific input
indicators that will support reporting on key issues. into our approach to community investment,
In determining the indicators, we aim to strike a environment, health and safety and human resources
balance between the desires of our stakeholders policies including diversity and human rights issues.
for greater transparency about our operations with
the realities and costs of running the business.
CROSS-FUNCTIONAL
MANAGEMENT OF GSK BOARD CSR COMMITTEE
CSR ACTIVITIES
CEO
CET MEMBER
CSR CO-ORDINATION Global Government
& REPORTING Affairs & Public Policy
R&D – DISEASES
MEDICINES FOR OF THE ETHICAL ISSUES CARING BUSINESS DEVELOPING SUPPORTING COMMUNITY
THE DEVELOPING DEVELOPING IN R&D FOR THE ETHICS OUR HUMAN RIGHTS INVESTMENT
WORLD WORLD ENVIRONMENT EMPLOYEES
32Web references
Our corporate website can be found at www.gsk.com.
Websites cited in this report:
1 www.gsk.com/ser/2001/ser01/CSR.pdf 16 www.gsk.com/community
2 www.polioeradication.org/ 17 www.projecthope.org/
3 www.gsk.com/press_archive/press_10032001.htm 18 www.pqmd.org
4 www.togetherrx.com/ 19 www.gsk.com/press_archive/press_11172001.htm
5 www.gsk.com/about/developing_world.htm 20 www.ic.ac.uk/templates/text_3.asp?P=3453
6 www.niaid.nih.gov/factsheets/hvtn.htm 21 www.corporate-citizenship.co.uk/community/lbg.asp
7 www.who.int/inf-pr-2001/en/pr2001-10.html 22 www.rds-online.org.uk/news.html
8 www.gsk.com/about/nfp_pricing_guide.htm 23 www.aaalac.org
9 www.gsk.com/press_archive/press_09052002.htm 24 http://science.gsk.com/about/animal-research.htm
10 www.gsk.com/community/about.htm 25 www.phrma.org/publications/quickfacts/20.06.2002.428.cfm
11 www.gsk.com/filariasis/index.htm 26 www.un.org/Overview/rights.html
12 www.gsk.com/positiveaction/index.htm 27 www.ilo.org/public/english/standards/decl/declaration/text/index.htm
13 www.gsk.com/press_archive/press_11282002.htm 28 www.oecd.org/pdf/M000015000/M00015419.pdf
14 www.gsk.fr/gsk/fond/mp.html 29 www.gsk.com/ser/2001/ser01/ehs.pdf
15 www.gsk.com/malaria/index.htm
CORPORATESOCIALRESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE
Donald McHenry Sir Christopher Hogg
A Non-Executive Director of GlaxoSmithKline and Sir Christopher is the Non-Executive Chairman
chairman of the Corporate Social Responsibility of GlaxoSmithKline. He is Non-Executive Chairman
Committee. Mr McHenryis a Distinguished of Reuters Group PLC, a member of the Supervisory
Professor in the Practice of Diplomacy at the School Board of Air Liquide S.A. and Chairman of The
of Foreign Service at Georgetown University and is Royal National Theatre.
Presidentof the IRCGroup, LLC.
Dr Michèle Barzach Dr Lucy Shapiro
A Non-Executive Director of GlaxoSmithKline, A Non-Executive Director of GlaxoSmithKline,
Dr Barzach is a member of the International Dr Shapiro is Ludwig Professor of Cancer Research
Cooperation High Council, Chairman of the Board in the Department of Developmental Biology and
of Equilibres et Populations and Director of the Director of the Beckman Centre for Molecular and
Board of Project Hope. International consultant in Genetic Medicine at the Stanford University School
health strategy, she was formerly French Minister of of Medicine.
Health and Family.
If you have any questions or views to share, please contact us at Design consultancy by salterbaxter.
csr.contact@gsk.comor write to us at:
Product names throughout this publication are indicated in italics and are
CSR trademarks of GlaxoSmithKline plc, its subsidiaries or associated companies.
Global Public Policy
GlaxoSmithKline Printed in the UK by St Ives Westerham Press. The paper used in the
980 Great West Road production of this document is made from pulps harvested fromsustainable
Brentford forests, also using sawmill residues and forest thinnings. It is elemental
Middlesex TW8 9GS chlorine-free.
UKwww.gsk.com