Corporate Responsibility
Report 2013
“ Alongside other interventions,
an effective vaccine could
really help reduce the burden
of malaria for Africa.”GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 1
About GSK
Our mission
GSK’s mission is to improve the
quality of human life by enabling
people to do more, feel better,
live longer. We are doing this by
developing innovative products
and improving access to healthcare
for patients around the world.
Cover image
Nahya Salim, a paediatrician and research scientist in Tanzania, Africa, has
been working on GSK’s RTS,S malaria vaccine trials at the Ifakara Health
Institute since 2007. She is currently overseeing trials of the new vaccine,
as well as researching how malaria interacts with other diseases, such as
intestinal worms, TB and HIV.
Guide to use this report
This interactive PDF is designed to help you easily Guide to the navigation buttons Dynamic links Full screen mode
navigate the report and find the information you are Click on the dynamic links to access further relevant The PDF is set up to view in full screen mode. To exit full
looking for. Go to main contents page information within the report or online, and use the tabs screen mode, press Escape to view the full toolbar.
at the top of the page to navigate between sections.
Search this pdf Printer-friendly PDF
Overview and summary You can use the print icon in the navigation to print the
Print
The overview pages at the beginning of each section whole document in a print-friendly format.
Go to preceding page provide a high-level summary of our approach and
performance in 2013. You can also download a summary
Go to next page
of the report.
Go to the Overview sections summary Return to last page visitedGSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 2
Contents
Inside this report
Our approach Health for all Our behaviour Our people Our planet Governance and
engagement
Learn about who we are, Find out how we are Read about how we are Learn how we create an Find out how we Find out more about how
what we do and how developing innovative embedding our values inspiring and supportive are managing the we manage corporate
we ensure our business products and improving throughout the business, work environment that environmental impacts of responsibility, engage with
operates responsibly. access to healthcare for including into the ways we encourages our employees our operations and products stakeholders to identify our
patients around the world. research, develop, sell and to develop their capabilities across their life cycle to material issues, and report
market our products. and achieve their best. reduce carbon emissions, our progress.
water use and waste.
At a glance 3 Health for all overview 11 Our behaviour overview 33 Our people overview 50 Our planet overview 60 Governance and engagement 71
Who we are 4 Improving healthcare: 14 Putting patients first 35 Setting the standard in 52 Taking a scientific 62 About this report 73
Chairman’s statement 5 a global challenge in sales and marketing employee healthcare approach to sustainability
CEO’s statement 6 Ground-breaking partnership 15 Our values and principles 36 Talent and leadership 53 Carbon 63
How we create value 7 with Save the children Research practices 40 development Water 65
Our business strategy 8 Innovative science 16 Working with healthcare 43 Inclusion and diversity 55 Waste 66
Commitments 9 to create value for all professionals Engaging our people 56 Managing other impacts 67
Access to healthcare 20 Sales and marketing 44 Health, safety and well-being 57 Engagement 68
Diseases of the 26 Manufacturing and supply 45 Performance reward 59 Data summary 69
developing world Public policy and 47 and recognition Summary of 70
HIV/AIDS 29 patient advocacy assurance statement
Health and well-being 31 Our approach to tax 49
in our communitiesNote to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 3
At a glance As part of our commitment to transparency we report our performance each year
across the four areas of our responsible business approach.
2013
Health for all Our behaviour Our behaviour External recognition
Achieved a major milestone with our Announced plans to evolve the way Became the first pharmaceutical
malaria vaccine candidate, RTS,S, which we sell and market products to company to enable external Topped the biannual
demonstrated that over 18 months of healthcare professionals to further researchers to access detailed Access to Medicines Index
follow-up it almost halved the number of align the company’s activities with the anonymised patient-level since it began in 2008 (the
malaria cases in young children (aged interests of patients. data from clinical trials next index is in 2014).
5-17 months at first vaccination) and
through a new online system.
reduced by around a quarter the malaria See page 44 The only healthcare
cases in infants (aged 6-12 weeks at first See page 40
company to be included
vaccination).
in the CDP Performance
See page 27 Leadership Index and the
Our planet CDP Disclosure Leadership
Index in 2013.
Our Scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions
Our people from our operations grew slightly in 2013,
Launched a new performance although they remain 7% lower than our Became first company to be
management system to 2010 benchmark. awarded global certification
better link employee to the Carbon Trust’s Water
Our Scope 3 emissions (excluding raw
reward with our values. Standard in recognition
materials) increased by 1.5% in 2013 REDUCING WATER
Health for all YEAR ON YEAR of our year-on-year
across the value chain due to strong sales
Formed an innovative new partnership
See page 59
of HFA propellant-based inhalers, and have
reductions in operational
water use globally.
with Save the Children to help save the increased by 11% since 2010.
lives of one million children over five years.
Achieved Bronze ranking
See page 15 See page 64 in RobecoSAM’s 2014
Sustainability Yearbook
(based on 2013 submission),
putting us in the top 10%
Health for all Our people Our planet
of our industry.
Donated our four billionth albendazole Began the roll out of preventive Used 2% less water in our
tablet to fight lymphatic filariasis and healthcare benefits through our operations during 2013, and
Member of FTSE4Good
intestinal worms, as part of our commitment Partnership for Prevention programme, are using 16% less than
since 2004.
to work with partners to control or eliminate which will be available to employees and in 2010.
ten of the 17 neglected tropical diseases. their families worldwide by 2018.
2
%
See page 26 4bn See page 52
Narrowly missed inclusion of the
Dow Jones Sustainability Ranking
See page 65 in 2013 with a score of 81.Note to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 4
Who we are GSK is a science-led global healthcare company that researches and manufactures
a range of products to help people do more, feel better and live longer.
As a global healthcare company, our Pharmaceuticals Vaccines Consumer healthcare
commercial success depends on creating
innovative new medicines, vaccines and
healthcare products, and making these
accessible to as many people who need
them as possible.
By doing this, we will be able to grow our
business and provide benefits to patients,
consumers, society, our employees and our
shareholders.
We put our values at the heart of every
£17.9bn 67% £3.4bn 13% £5.2bn 20%
decision we make, and we commit to help
people do more, feel better, live longer.
Turnover of Group Turnover of Group Turnover of Group
We develop and make medicines to treat a Our vaccines business is one of the largest in We develop and market a range of
broad range of conditions including: the world, producing more than 30 vaccines consumer health products based on
respiratory disease, cancer, heart disease, for children and adults against a range of scientific innovation. We have brands in four
bacterial and viral infections such as HIV, infectious diseases. In 2013, we delivered main categories: Total wellness, Oral care,
lupus and skin conditions. 860 million vaccine doses, over 80% of them Nutrition and Skin health.
for use in developing countries.
Our values are
Where we are Employees by region 2013 (%) Turnover by region 2013 (%)
transparency, respect
We have a significant global commercial
£26.5bn
for people, integrity and presence in more than 150 markets, with a 3 3 7
network of 86 manufacturing sites 17 7
patient focus.
worldwide, and R&D centres in the UK, USA, 33
2013 Group turnover
Spain, Belgium and China.
38
25
39
28
USA USA
Europe Europe
EMAP EMAP
Japan Japan
Other OtherNote to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 5
Chairman’s statement As Chairman of the Board and the Board-level Corporate Responsibility Committee,
I see first-hand that, for GSK, being a responsible business is not just about
Message from our Chairman
demonstrating robust governance; it is central to the company’s strategy.
The importance of strong ethical behaviour The Committee continues to recognise the
and operating according to the company’s value that external perspectives can bring,
values is something myself and Board and in May, Sophia Tickell was reappointed
colleagues pay continued attention to. as an external advisor. As a respected CR
expert with specific expertise in healthcare
The allegations of fraudulent behaviour by
and climate change, she brings valuable
certain employees within our business in
external insight. I would also like to welcome
China are wholly contrary to the company’s
Non-Executive Director, Hans Wijers, who
values and we take this matter extremely
joined the Committee in October.
seriously. In addition to the Chinese
Government investigation, we have The CR Committee and the Board will
The company continues to deliver strong commissioned an independent review continue to support – and constructively
operational and financial performance, of our Chinese operations by the law firm challenge – the company’s actions to
and I have no doubt that commercial Ropes and Gray, and we will implement operate a responsible values-based
success is directly linked to operating in all appropriate actions as necessary business. I look forward to seeing further
a responsible way and which meets the on conclusion of these investigations. progress in 2014.
changing expectations of society.
The role of the CR Committee is to provide
In this respect, the company continues high-level guidance and oversight on
to adopt industry-leading positions on matters related to responsible business.
a range of issues.
In 2013, we have reviewed progress against
The announcement of plans during 2013 the ambitious CR commitments, first set out
to evolve the way the business interacts in last year’s Report. After just one year,
with healthcare professionals and pays while few of these long-term goals
sales staff are developments I was are close to completion (indeed, if they
Sir Christopher Gent
particularly pleased to see. were, I would question whether they were
Chairman
challenging enough), it is the Committee’s
In the same way the Board strongly
view that GSK is on track and there is
supports the commitments the company
tangible evidence of steps being taken
has made to advance transparency around
that will help the company achieve them
clinical trial data. Over time, it is to be
(see page 9).
hoped these steps will advance medical
science and improve patient care.Note to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 6
CEO’s statement As a global healthcare company, GSK can play an important role in meeting
societal challenges. In 2013, we continued to develop innovative life-saving drugs
Message from our CEO
and work with partners to get medicines to the people that need them most.
In 2013, we made new commitments to In 2013, we donated our four billionth tablet Our continued commitment to transparency
increase transparency of our clinical of albendazole to treat intestinal worms and was also evident in our efforts to disclose
research by announcing our support for the lymphatic filariasis – part of our long-term and address our environmental impacts.
AllTrials campaign and becoming the first commitment to tackle neglected tropical We are the only healthcare company listed
pharmaceutical company to commit to diseases – and delivered 862 million vaccine in both the CDP’s Disclosure Leadership
publishing the detailed clinical study reports doses worldwide. We also strengthened our Index and its Performance Leadership Index
for all of our medicines. In May, we were the global initiatives to tackle non-communicable in 2013, for our clear reporting and
first in our industry to launch an online diseases such as cancer, diabetes, performance on climate impacts.
system enabling researchers to request respiratory and heart disease.
My job as CEO is to deliver a healthy
access to anonymised patient-level data
I am also delighted we achieved a company, and that is only possible with
from our clinical trials. I am pleased that
Over the past six years we have been significant milestone for our malaria vaccine healthy employees. Our ground breaking
some other companies have now also
making fundamental changes to deliver candidate which demonstrated that it could Partnership for Prevention initiative will give
adopted this approach.
innovation and access to our products potentially halve the number of malaria benefits-eligible employees and their
for patients and customers, and improved We also announced plans to evolve the way cases in young children. This vaccine has families equal access to preventive and
sustainable financial performance for we sell and market products to healthcare the potential to save hundreds of thousands basic healthcare benefits wherever they are
our shareholders. professionals, to further align our activities of childrens’ lives and we plan to file for based.
with the interests of patients and remove approval during 2014. We are committed to
2013 was the most productive period of In 2014, we will continue to challenge our
even the perception of conflict of interest. making it available at a not-for-profit price.
R&D output in the company’s history. Of the business model at every level, to ensure we
Specifically, we plan to stop direct
six major new medicine files we profiled at There is no higher priority for me than the are responding to the needs of patients and
payments to healthcare professionals for
the start of 2013, five were approved and values-based conduct of our employees. meeting the wider expectations of society.
speaking engagements and for attendance
we are expecting regulatory decisions for In the past few years, we have focused
at medical conferences, and extend our US
the remaining asset in this group in the first on bringing to life our values and being
‘Patient First’ programme globally, to
half of 2014. In addition, we launched our thoughtful about what they really mean
decouple sales team remuneration from
new injectable quadrivalent flu vaccine in at a human level.
scrip generation.
the USA. Together, these new drugs offer
It is because of my strong belief in our
patients a range of new treatment options We continue to expand access to our
company’s values that the allegations made
and represent substantial opportunities for medicines to people living in the
in China about the behaviour of some
business growth. developing world. Sir Andrew Witty
individuals were so disappointing. The
Chief Executive Officer
We continue to take action to reform our During 2013, we signed a ground-breaking investigation into this matter by the
business model to meet the expectations of five-year partnership with Save the Children, authorities in China continues and we are
society and deliver our mission, in line with to combine the resources and capabilities cooperating fully. As a company, we are
our values. of our two organisations to help save the committed to learning the lessons and
lives of one million children living in the taking all necessary action in relation to
poorest countries in Africa. the outcome of this investigation.Note to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 7
How we create value We are adapting our business model and pursuing a strategy that delivers
sustainable performance through innovation and expanding access,
driven by our values.
Our mission Our strategic priorities – grow, deliver, Our business model Outputs
We have a challenging and inspiring simplify – help us work towards our vision, We have a broadly-based and balanced Delivering innovation and maximising
mission: to improve the quality of human life while enhancing business performance and business across pharmaceuticals, vaccines access to our products generates value
by enabling people to do more, feel better, delivering sustainable growth. and consumer healthcare. At the core of our for patients, and society more widely.
live longer. This mission gives us the business model are the concepts of innovation
We focus on understanding the needs of Our primary contribution is to make
purpose to develop innovative medicines and access. We create value by researching
patients, consumers and individual markets products that provide benefits to patients
and products, and make them available to as and manufacturing innovative and high
so we can channel our research into and consumers.
many people who need them as possible. quality products, and making these
developing appropriate products.
accessible to as many people who need
Successful delivery of this generates
Our mission is underpinned by a number These insights also enable us to adapt
them as possible.
profitable and sustainable performance.
of key factors. our business model to improve availability
In turn, this allows us to generate value
and affordability. Improving healthcare and making it
To achieve our mission, we rely on our and returns for our shareholders, and
affordable and accessible to more people
people – their knowledge, their expertise enables us to reinvest in the business.
is a huge challenge, and one that requires
and their enthusiasm – and put our values
a combined effort.
We also create value by making direct
at the heart of every decision we make.
and indirect economic and social
To meet this challenge, everyone involved in
contributions in the countries where we
providing healthcare – industry, healthcare
operate. These wider benefits to society
Our mission Our business model Outputs professionals, universities, healthcare
include contributions through tax,
funders including governments, charities
employment and enhancing the well-being
and regulators – need to work together.
of local communities through our global
To improve the quality R&D Benefits to patients With this in mind, partnership and
community initiatives.
of human life by enabling and customers collaboration is a key principle of our
Discovering and
people to do more, developing innovative business approach.
feel better, live longer.
medicines
Cash and profit We continue to reform our business model.
Underpinned by generation For example, we have taken industry-leading
Manufacturing
Our values positions to improve global public health
Making and shipping through our pricing and access strategies,
Shareholder value
high standard products increase transparency of our clinical trial
Our strategic priorities around the world and returns data and modernise our commercial
practices and interactions with customers.
Our people Commercialisation Wider benefits
and distribution to society
Our insights Increasing access
to our products
ReinvestmentNote to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 8
Our business Our business strategy aims to help us deliver sustainable growth, reduce risk,
and enhance the long-term value we deliver to our shareholders and society.
strategy
Our aim Our progress Highlights Our priorities
£26.5bn
Grow We have been creating a more Total sales grew 1% to £26.5 billion in 2013 • Successful launch and commercialisation
balanced business and product (3% excluding divestments). of new products from our pipeline
a diversified portfolio, capable of delivering Performance was generated from multiple • Continue to invest in key growth
business sustainable sales growth. This is businesses and geographies reflecting Group turnover businesses including Emerging Markets,
centred on our three business successful implementation of the strategy. 39% Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare
areas of Pharmaceuticals,
• Look for further opportunities to
Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare.
increase focus and optimise value
Group turnover outside USA and Europe of our product portfolio
6
Deliver We have changed our R&D During 2013, we received approvals for six major • Delivery of phase III data for six
organisation so that it is better new products and several new indications for existing potential new medicines and vaccines,
more products able to sustain a pipeline of products medicines and vaccines. and around ten NME phase III starts
that offer valuable improvements Significant new product approvals across 2014/2015
of value in treatment for patients and We also generated a high volume of phase III in 2013
healthcare providers. data on key assets in our pipeline. 40 • Continued focus on increasing R&D
rate of return
Our estimated return on R&D investment
This is underpinned by a focus
increased to 13%.
on improving productivity and
Medicines in phase II/III development
rates of return in R&D.
£400m
Simplify As our business continues to change We have several restructuring programmes • Further cost savings delivery from
shape, we are transforming how which are on track to deliver total annual savings our restructuring programmes
the operating we operate so that we can of £4.3 billion by 2016, compared with 2007.
• Further roll-out of standardised enterprise
reduce complexity and become During 2013 we delivered incremental savings Incremental savings in 2013
model platforms and delivery of an integrated
more efficient. of £400 million.
10 supply chain
This frees up resources to reinvest We are also making good progress transforming
elsewhere in the business. our manufacturing network, supply chain and
enterprise-wide processes.
Days reduction in working capital
60%
Responsible Being a responsible business is In 2013, we have made considerable further progress • File our RTS,S malaria vaccine candidate
central to our strategy, and how we on our agenda to operate responsibly. for approval in 2014 and, if approved,
business deliver success is just as important offer at a not-for-profit price
Specifically, we took action to increase transparency
as what we achieve. Ensuring our Increase in the volume of medicines supplied
values are embedded in our culture of clinical research data, and modernise our commercial to Least Developed Countries since 2010 • Implement changes on how we
operations and interactions with customers. incentivise our sales teams and
and decision-making helps us better 1st
work with healthcare professionals
meet the expectations of society. We also made progress on driving access to medicines
in the poorest countries and passed a key milestone in
the development of a potential vaccine against malaria. Pharmaceutical company to sign AllTrials
campaign for research transparencyNote to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 9
Commitments In 2012, we developed forward-looking commitments across the four areas of our
responsible business approach. They aim to address unmet global health needs
Progress overview
and are aligned with our strategic priorities and our values.
This year we are reporting on our progress against these commitments and here
we provide a summary.
Commitments Progress tracker Find out more
lla
rof
htlaeH
Innovation for unmet Adapt the open innovation R&D model, currently used for Diseases of the Developing On track Worked to promote R&D of new antibiotics and accelerate development
medical needs World, to apply to other areas of great unmet medical need and scientific challenge, of treatments for Alzheimer’s disease through the Innovative Medicines Page 18
including infectious disease and Alzheimer’s disease, by 2015. Initiative, and continued to research multi-drug-resistant tuberculosis.
Developing vaccines Invest in the development of vaccines that don’t require continuous refrigeration, On track Partnered with the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation to accelerate
that don’t need to be making distribution easier and less expensive. advances in vaccine research, including making them less vulnerable Page 17
kept cold to heat.
Building products to Continue to build a core range of products and formats to better meet the needs of On track Our ‘catch-up’ programme in developing countries received approvals
better meet needs people across the globe, including those less able to access and afford our products. for a further 26 products in 2013; and we reached 16,000 villages in Page 22
India with low cost nutritional formulation of Horlicks.
Better access Further embed our flexible pricing strategy and innovative business models for our Progressing well Updated our approach to tiered pricing for vaccines.
to medicines prescription medicines and vaccines, to increase usage among those less able to Page 20
and vaccines access and afford our products.
Reducing child mortality Continue to invest in innovative cross-sector partnerships to reduce child mortality. On track Formed a ground-breaking partnership with Save the Children to help
save one million children’s lives. Page 15
Strengthening healthcare Continue to work with partners to support the development and strengthening of Progressing well Launched innovative partnerships with Barclays and Vodafone, and
infrastructure healthcare infrastructure. We anticipate this could improve access to healthcare for invested £5.1 million in strengthening healthcare infrastructures through Page 23
20 million under-served people by 2020 (vs 2012). our 20% reinvestment programme in Least Developed Countries.
Access to antiretroviral Through ViiV Healthcare, continue to increase access to our medicines and care On track Committed to grant the UN-supported Medicines Patent Pool, a
treatment for HIV for adults and children living with HIV around the world. We will help World Health voluntary licence to develop paediatric formulations of the antiretroviral
Page 29
Organization (WHO) and UNAIDS achieve their goal of reaching 15 million people medicine abacavir, to treat HIV in the 118 countries where 98% of HIV
globally with antiretroviral treatment by 2015. positive children live globally.
Fighting malaria Build on our 30 year commitment to contribute to the fight against malaria through Progressing well Announced large scale phase III trial data for our malaria vaccine RTS,S
continued R&D investment and partnerships on the ground. and are developing a medicine, Tafenoquine, in partnership with MMV for Page 27
the treatment and relapse prevention of vivax malaria.
Eliminating and Help to eliminate and control ten neglected tropical diseases that affect 1.4 billion On track Donated 763 million albendazole tablets to eliminate Lymphatic Filariasis
controlling neglected people, by 2020 – including the elimination of lymphatic filariasis, through our and control soil-transmitted helminths, and screened our compound
Page 26
tropical diseases continued investment in R&D, ongoing product donations and our contribution to the library for promising treatments for parasites that cause sleeping
London Declaration on Neglected Tropical Diseases. sickness, Chagas Disease and Visceral Leishmaniasis.
Eradicating polio Continue to support the WHO objective of eradicating polio by 2018 by providing Progressing well Provided a further 412 million doses of Oral Polio Vaccine to the Global
vaccines to UNICEF until this is achieved. Polio Eradication Initiative. Page 27Note to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 10
Commitments Progress tracker Find out more
ruoivaheb
ruO
Promoting values in sales Continue to drive a values-based approach to sales and marketing practices across On track Announced changes to our global sales and marketing practices
and marketing practices the world, with the interests of consumers and patients at its core. to further ensure patient interests come first, and introduced a new Page 43
performance management system focused on values.
Rigorous patient and Continue to ensure the interests and safety of patients and consumers are of Progressing well Strengthened resources to enhance our pharmocovigilance operating
consumer safety paramount importance in the way we design and undertake our clinical trials, our model, expanded dedicated product quality teams and maintained our
Page 41 and 45
product quality assurance and our monitoring and reporting of adverse events in robust policies and governance framework on patient safety.
ongoing product usage.
Minimising animal testing Rigorously challenge the need for animal studies and work to minimise the impact On track Reduced number of animals used in our research by 10% in 2013.
on animal welfare, by investing in the development of alternative studies and sharing Page 41
animal-based data.
Promoting Human Rights Address the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights across our own On track Conducted a human rights impact assessment and prioritised seven
operations and our supplier relationships. areas for further analysis, and updated our human rights statement Page 39
accordingly.
Transparency in clinical Be as transparent as possible with our clinical trial data, including publishing Progressing well Launched online system enabling researchers to request access to
trial data clinical study reports (without patient-level data) for all outcome trials of medicines the detailed anonymised patient-level data from our clinical trials and
Page 40
conducted by GSK and, within an appropriate process, making available to became first pharmaceutical company to publish clinical study reports.
researchers access to anonymised patient level data to further scientific enquiry.
Ensuring ethical Demonstrate that all GSK interactions with patient advocacy groups and political On track Embedded new criteria to ensure public policy groups we work with
stakeholder interactions stakeholders are conducted appropriately, ethically and transparently. are aligned with our values and agreed relevant Standard Operating Page 47
Procedures.
elpoep
ruO
Promoting inclusion Continue to promote inclusion and diversity globally at GSK. On track Agreed to establish Global Disability Council and introduced gender
and diversity targeted coaching and sponsorship. Page 55
Creating inspiring and Continue to create a working environment that inspires people to grow and perform On track Interim employee survey results showed improvements in team leader
healthy workplaces in a healthy and resilient way. effectiveness; continued to roll out preventive healthcare for employees; Page 57
reduced injury and illness rates by 12% from 2012.
Community volunteering Extend volunteering opportunities to bring about positive change to communities and On track Increased the number of employees taking part in PULSE volunteer
to create change global health while providing individual development. partnership programme to 99 (from 58 in 2010). Page 54
tenalp
ruO
Commitments
Progress overview
continued
Aiming to be Reduce our overall carbon footprint by 25% by 2020 (vs. 2010) and have a carbon Work to do Scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions from our operations up 2% in 2013,
carbon neutral neutral value chain by 2050. but down 7% since 2010; Scope 3 emissions (excluding raw materials)
Page 64
up 1.5% in 2013 and up 11% since 2010, due to strong sales of HFA
propellant-based inhalers.
Reducing our By 2020, reduce our water impact across the value chain by 20% (vs. 2010). On track Used 16% less water in our operations (vs. 2010); mapped water use
water impact across our value chain; became first company to be awarded global Page 65
certification to the Carbon Trust’s Water Standard.
Reducing our By 2020, reduce our operational waste by 50% (vs. 2010). On track Cut total waste by 6% and sent 39% less to landfill (vs.2010); achieved
waste zero waste to landfill at 37 sites. Page 66
Building sustainability Build sustainable supply lines for our Nutrition portfolio and work with local farmers On track Began working with a dairy supplier in India to develop a secure supply
in our supply chain to improve their agricultural practices, improve their yields, their competitiveness and of locally produced whey protein (from milk) to make Horlicks, and now Page 67
their livelihoods. source 60% of whey protein from the local supplier in India for Horlicks.Note to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 11
Health
for all
In focus
Driven by our steadfast focus on the
patient, we are bringing health benefits
to more people around the world Philomene is being treated for breast
cancer at the Butaro Cancer Centre
through our open, flexible and of Excellence, Rwanda. As part of our
work to address non-communicable
collaborative approach to innovation diseases in the developing world, we
are funding the training of cancer
and access to healthcare.
healthcare professionals in Rwanda in
partnership with charities and the
government. This will increase access
to trained cancer specialists for
patients like Philomene.
Read more on page 25
In this section
Health for all overview 12
Improving healthcare:
a global challenge 14
Ground-breaking partnership
with Save the children 15
Innovative science to create
value for all 16
Access to healthcare 20
Diseases of the
developing world 26
HIV/AIDS 29
Health and well-being
in our communities 31Note to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 12
Health for all
Overview
To bring new vaccines and medicines to
External perspective External perspective
patients faster, we are accelerating our
innovation processes, opening up our
“C ommunity health workers provide “ Given the scale of the disease
research findings and resources to others,
and bringing together partners to explore vital services to rural communities burden in developing countries,
new delivery models and flexible pricing and GSK has been a pioneer and we look forward to our continued
strategies to increase access to our existing
trail-blazer in supporting the work with GSK to develop essential
range of products.
Internal perspective deployment of CHWs across Africa. lifesaving health interventions.
We have been at the forefront of the
The One Million Community Health We’re particularly excited about
transformation in our industry’s approach
“S cientific and technological Workers Campaign will save lives GSK’s long-term commitment to
to global healthcare over the past decade,
but we know there is still much more to innovation will enable us to make and help rural communities in global health R&D and innovation
be done to meet major health challenges. the advances necessary to bring sub-Saharan Africa to break free of in malaria.”
We want to play a leading role in this effort, new medicines, in new ways, to extreme poverty. By promoting the
while generating the returns we need to Dr. Trevor Mundel
invest and grow our business. patients everywhere. At GSK, we are systematic deployment of a million President, Global Health Programme,
working with many partners and CHWs, roughly 1 per 100 Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation
We remain committed to improving
across many areas – such as gene households in rural areas, the
treatment options and life-saving vaccines
and medicines through our strategies to therapy and biopharmaceuticals – Campaign will support sub-Saharan
extend access and foster innovation, and to develop medicines for diseases Africa to make major strides
our continued focus on diseases of the where effective treatments do not towards the Millennium
developing world. The ways in which we
currently exist. We’re also playing Development Goals and beyond.”
have evolved our business model enable us
our part in exploring new ways to
to make a significant contribution to the UN’s
Jeffrey Sachs
Millennium Development Goals for 2015. stimulate innovation in areas where
Director of the Earth Institute and the
the commercial incentive is weaker Sustainable Development Solutions Network
Through our own work and collaboration
with others in our sector and beyond, we – for example on TB, antibiotic
are creating sustainable solutions that will resistance or Alzheimer’s.”
improve quality of life by enabling people
to do more, feel better and live longer. Patrick Vallance
President, Pharmaceuticals R&D, GSKNote to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 13
Health for all
2013 at a glance
Innovative science to create value for all Access to healthcare Diseases of the developing world HIV/AIDS
Of the six major new medicines we profiled Increased our focus on non-communicable Achieved a major milestone in our malaria Obtained regulatory approval in the USA,
at the start of 2013, five were approved. diseases such as diabetes and cancer in vaccine candidate, which demonstrated that Canada and Chile for Tivicay (dolutegravir),
We are expecting regulatory decisions developing countries through research and over 18 months of follow-up, RTS,S almost a new treatment option for people living
for the remaining asset in the first half of training for healthcare providers. halved the number of malaria cases in young with HIV.
2014. We also launched a new injectable children (aged 5-17 months at first
quadrivalent flu vaccine in the USA. See page 25 vaccination) and reduced by around a See page 29
quarter the malaria cases in infants (aged
GSK accounted for 19% of FDA 6 6-12 weeks at first vaccination).
new drug approvals.
See page 27
See page 16 Access to healthcare
Partnered with Save the Children to help
save the lives of one million children.
Innovative science to create value for all Diseases of the developing world HIV/AIDS
See page 15
£3.4bn Donated our four billionth albendazole tablet Agreed to grant the UNITAID-backed
to fight lymphatic filariasis and intestinal Medicines Patent Pool, a voluntary
Access to healthcare worms as part of our commitment to work licence for paediatric formulations
Invested £3.4bn in global research and Delivered 46.8 million vaccine doses to with partners to control or eliminate 10 of the antiretroviral medicine,
development for innovative medicines, GAVI Alliance at affordable prices to protect of the 17 neglected tropical diseases. abacavir, in 118 countries,
vaccines and consumer products. children from pneumococcal diseases, See page 26 w chh ie ldr re
e
9
n
8 li%
ve
.of HIV positive
rotavirus gastroenteritis and cervical cancer.
We have 40 new molecular entities in
4bn
phase II/III clinical development.
46.8m
See page 30
See page 16 See page 20
Access to healthcare Access to healthcare Diseases of the developing world Health and well-being in our communities
Updated our tiered pricing model for Reinvested 20% of the Provided 412 million doses of oral polio £221m
vaccines to increase support for countries profits we made in Least vaccine as part of our continued support for
committed to long-term immunisation Developed Countries global efforts to eliminate the disease – we
programmes that reflects their ability to pay. – £5.1 million – to train have contributed over 15.8 billion doses
community health workers since 1988.
See page 20 and strengthen healthcare Donated £221 million to promote the health
infrastructure in those
See page 27
and well-being of communities through
countries. 412m funding, product donations and employee
volunteering.
See page 23
See page 31Note to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 14
Improving healthcare: As a global healthcare company, GSK works within the context of the global
health burden, exemplified by the UN Millennium Development Goals. We
a global challenge
recognise the complex barriers to health and are responding in innovative ways.
GSK’s response
Treatments don’t exist Resistance to existing
Diseases of the Developing World M neo er de e e df f fe oc r t div ie s etr ae sa et sm ie nn ct lus da ir ne g Barriers t Rr ee sa it sm tae nn ct es to antimicrobials Malaria and antibiotic resistance
Working with the Gates Foundation, tuberculosis and hepatitis C, is a problem for many diseases We are committed to tackling malaria
World Health Organization, other but developing them can take affecting developing countries, through vaccine research, developing
pharmaceutical companies and donors, years and cost hundreds of including malaria. new treatments, promoting the use of
we are helping to control or eliminate 10 millions of pounds, with low preventive measures and increasing
of the 17 Neglected Tropical Diseases returns. access to anti-malarials in least
that affect 1.4 billion people. Global health burden developed countries.
See page 25 See pages 18 and 27
Child mortality Malaria
A H g esof igf pvo h e er r cd p n ira ami lcb le yei nl s tit t h sy c e a a 2n n . d 8p r p be e iv lloe iopn nlt e l, i ving on S s bt ii rix l tl hm d dii e alli yo b (n e d fc eoh srei pl d it thr ee e n air 4a fi 7fy t %e ha r E 2 m1a a5c lah m r iy aie l l ga ior lon t bh ce aar ls le ye a asr n e o d fa mro ou rn ed S D prt i esig vc em ri nma t i pna aan ttd ii eo d nn t i as s nc sdr ui m fs ft ei in g ria nm gt ai o cn an
less than $2 a day, from buying drop in child mortality than 660,000 malaria from diseases such as HIV,
the medicines they need. since 1990). deaths, 80% of which and even asthma, from
occur in just 14 countries. accessing treatment.
Pricing ViiV Healthcare
We cap the prices of our patented The specialist HIV company GSK jointly
medicines and vaccines in least established in 2009 with Pfizer,
developed countries, offer flexible and researches new treatments, improves
tiered pricing in middle income countries Maternal health HIV/AIDS access to medicines and works with
and take a responsible approach communities to combat stigma and
to pricing in high income countries. Only 50% of pregnant Of the 35 million people discrimination surrounding HIV/AIDS.
women in developing living with HIV in 2012,
See page 20 See page 29
countries receive the only 9.7 million people Poverty
Healthcare infrastructure recommended healthcare received anti-retroviral Poverty has a huge effect on
Many developing countries lack during pregnancy. therapy in low and middle people’s health and
adequate healthcare facilities income countries. well-being. Factors such as
and staff. Africa suffers most, lack of resources,
with 24% of the global burden malnourishment, unsafe water
of disease but just 3% of and poor sanitation all
health workers. contribute to poor health.
Tuberculosis Non communicable
Despite a 45% drop in diseases (NCDs)
TB mortality from 1990, NCDs account for
20% reinvestment TB still killed 1.3 million two-thirds of global Save the Children partnership
Since 2009, we have reinvested 20% of people in 2012, deaths, with developing Through our ground-breaking partnership
the profits we generate in least a quarter of whom were countries carrying we are bringing much needed medicines
developed countries into programmes HIV-positive. over half of the world’s and vaccines to some of the world’s
that strengthen community healthcare NCD burden. poorest children, training thousands of
and improve access to healthcare in healthcare workers, and seeking to
these countries. alleviate child malnutrition.
See page 23 See page 15Note to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 15
Ground-breaking partnership
with Save the Children
to help save one million lives
comprehensive interventions. by the UN Commission on (see page 23) and the Africa
Commitment
A joint R&D board will Life Saving Commodities.1 Malaria Partnership (see
Continue to invest in innovative cross-sector explore the development of We are also registering a page 28). Together we
partnerships to reduce child mortality. new or repurposed products awarded US$1 million in
child-friendly, powder-based
to tackle the causes of 2013 for healthcare
antibiotic into the DRC to
Our ground-breaking £15 million in grants and we newborn and infant death. innovations originating in the
help fight pneumonia, one of
partnership with international are encouraging employees developing world. The award
One of our first life-saving the biggest killers of children
children’s charity, Save the to raise £1 million a year was split between five
projects is the reformulation under five, as well as
Children, will help save the through volunteering and organisations, with the
of chlorhexidine, an antiseptic developing a low-cost
lives of one million children. fund raising (see page 56). largest portion going to
found in our Corsodyl nutritional product to help
By combining our expertise, Globally, over six million mouthwash, for umbilical combat child under-nutrition. Friends of Sick Children in
resources and capabilities, children die every year due cord cleansing to prevent Malawi, for their development
we will bring much-needed to a lack of basic healthcare, infection in newborns. If This new partnership builds of a low-cost device to help
medicines and vaccines to vaccines or nutritious food. applied for the first few days on our collaboration with newborn infants breathe.
some of the world’s poorest Save the Children over the
We are establishing of their life, this gel could play
children, train thousands of past eight years, which
signature programmes in the a vital role in preventing 1 Source: http://www.
healthcare workers, and seek Democratic Republic of infection and saving babies’ includes work on our 20% everywomaneverychild.org/
to alleviate child malnutrition. reinvestment programme in resources/un-commission-on-life-
Congo (DRC) and Kenya to lives. This is one of the 13 saving-commodities
GSK is investing at least Least Developed Countries
test the impact of a series of interventions recommendedNote to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 16
Innovative science to Our approach to innovation is helping us strengthen our portfolio of medicines,
vaccines and consumer healthcare products to bring benefits to patients around
create value for all
the world.
We are committed to creating innovative Our six major new medicines are: Our Discovery Performance Unit (DPU) We also encourage entrepreneurship
products that deliver value for all – based discovery research strategy is also and innovation in the biotech sector.
• Breo/Relvar Ellipta approved in the USA
healthcare payers and providers, and most continuing to progress very well. They have For example, we joined forces with Johnson
to treat Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary
of all, patients. We are accelerating the shown sustained improvement in both quality & Johnson to launch the Index Ventures’
Disease (COPD), the fifth leading cause
delivery of new products by streamlining our of compounds and more especially the first fund which is dedicated to making
of death globally, in Europe to treat
research and development (R&D), focusing research areas being prospected, such as investments in the life sciences sector and
asthma and COPD, and in Japan to treat
on products that bring most value, and immuno-inflammation, antibody platforms, our own independent corporate venture
asthma.
forging strong partnerships with others in epigenetics and heart failure. firm, SR One. GSK is also a founding
our industry and in academia. • Anoro Ellipta also approved for COPD investor in the new Global Health
We are committing resources to stimulate
Investment Fund (see case study below).
in the USA.
We also aim to stimulate innovation by innovation into the development of promising
opening up access to our expertise, our • Tafinlar, an oral metastatic melanoma new technologies that could treat the
facilities and, in some cases, our intellectual diseases of tomorrow. For example, in 2013,
therapy, approved in the USA and Europe.
property to support external research in we established a new bioelectronics R&D
areas of great medical need. • Mekinist, a treatment for melanoma, unit to catalyse research into approaches
approved in the USA. that modulate signalling patterns in the
Developing medicines and vaccines for
nerves to specific organs, which offer new
diseases that disproportionately affect • Tivicay, ViiV Healthcare’s new treatment
ways to treat chronic diseases.
developing countries and poorer option for people living with HIV, approved
populations in middle-income countries in the USA and Europe.
remains a key focus for GSK. Saving millions of lives: How’s that for a return on investment?
• Fluarix/Flulaval, quadrivalent flu vaccines
Unprecedented approvals and that protect against four different strains
strong pipeline of the virus, approved in the USA We have committed US$10 million to a new To mitigate the risk of investing in the clinical
Our approach is helping us accelerate R&D, (Flulaval) and Europe (Fluarix). investment fund structured by JPMorgan development of new technologies, the Gates
Chase & Co. and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and the Swedish International
yielding impressive results. Of the six major
Our pipeline remains extensive and we Foundation to help tackle health challenges Development Cooperation Agency will partially
new medicine files we profiled at the start of
aim to have a continued flow of product that are particularly prevalent in low-income offset potential losses in the Fund. GSK will
2013, five were approved: Breo and Anoro for
launches which will bring benefits to countries by advancing the most promising also contribute valuable advice on scientific
respiratory disease, Tafinlar and Mekinist for innovations. The Global Health Investment and product development, manufacturing,
patients and continue to diversify our
melanoma (skin cancer) and Tivicay for HIV. Fund, or GHIF, will finance the development and regulatory issues through our participation
portfolio. We have around 40 new molecular
We are expecting regulatory decisions for of new drugs, vaccines, diagnostic tools on the Fund’s Scientific Advisory Board.
entities (NMEs) in phase II/III clinical
albiglutide, the remaining asset in this group, and other interventions that target malaria,
development. In 2014 and 2015 we expect
in the first half of 2014. In addition, we launched tuberculosis, HIV/AIDS, and maternal and
our new injectable quadrivalent flu vaccine in phase III read-outs for six NMEs and are infant mortality.
planning ten NME phase III starts in key
the USA. Overall, GSK accounted for 19%
areas such as respiratory, oncology and
of FDA new drug approvals during 2013.
immuno-inflammation.
We have achieved this feat while spending
less on R&D than we did five years ago.skoorB
nairdA/IVAG
Note to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 17
Innovative science to
create value for all
continued
How we innovate patient seminars on topics such as neglected
To foster innovation, we empower our scientists tropical diseases, type 2 diabetes, gene
and researchers to think creatively while therapy, HIV, chronic hand eczema and
maintaining a focus on scientific discipline. Duchenne muscular dystrophy.
To help us do this more effectively, we:
Collaborating with others
• Research only those treatments that offer The world’s biggest public health challenges
significant improvements over existing can only be solved if researchers from
options, based on our understanding of different scientific organisations and
patient needs. institutions work together, sharing their
knowledge and expertise. To this end, we are
• Create smaller specialist research teams,
involved in a number of innovative
such as our specialist multidisciplinary
collaborations with a broad range of both
Discovery Performance Units.
public and private bodies. These include
• Simplify processes, improve team initiatives with governments, scientific
institutions and other companies to address efficiency and enable people to focus
some key public health problems, including
on higher value activities.
antibiotic resistance and dementia.
• Access and catalyse innovation through
collaborations with public and private Making vaccines more immune to heat
organisations.
• Identify and terminate projects that are “H aving had my world turned upside Commitment GSK and BMGF will invest a combined
US$1.8 million in early stage research into
unlikely to be successful early to free up down in 1997, due to my systemic
resources to pursue more promising leads. Invest in the development of vaccines that don’t vaccine thermostability.
sclerosis diagnosis, the Focus on the require continuous refrigeration, making distribution
• Focus on progressing the development of Patient programme has given me hope easier and less expensive. One of the first projects is exploring how to
pipeline projects by optimising resources that a cure will be discovered, make adjuvants – a critical component of
through innovative and smarter clinical Vaccines are notoriously susceptible some vaccines – more heat stable. The
consigning this debilitating disease
trial design. to heat, making transport a challenge, project will initially focus on GSK’s RTS,S
to the history books. The programme
especially in hot, remote regions where malaria vaccine candidate (see page 27),
Through our Focus on the Patient
has provided a perfect platform for me people often need them most. which has been designed for use in infants
programme, we connect our researchers
with the patients they are ultimately to share the day-to-day challenges of and children in sub-Saharan Africa, where
In 2013, GSK and the Bill & Melinda Gates
developing medicines for. This provides our living with this condition, and highlight maintaining vaccines at an optimum
Foundation (BMGF) partnered in a new joint
researchers with important insights into the potential areas for future treatments temperature can be challenging.
initiative that aims to accelerate advances
challenges of living with a disease, and
which are currently absent.” in vaccine research and development that
enables us to incorporate patient feedback
directly into the R&D process. In 2013, more have the potential to transform global health.
Nicola Whitehill
than 5,000 employees participated in seven
Focus on the Patient participantNote to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 18
Innovative science to
create value for all
continued
Our Discovery Partnerships with Academia Targeting unmet medical needs
programme brings together the insight and Addressing the urgent need to tackle antibiotic resistance
creativity of the academic world, and GSK’s Commitment
drug discovery expertise and tools to No one would like to go back to a time • A commitment not to license our new
Adapt the open innovation R&D model, currently used
translate innovative research into medicines before penicillin revolutionised the antibacterials for agricultural use,
for Diseases of the Developing World, to apply to
that benefit patients. In 2013, we launched other areas of great unmet medical need and scientific treatment of bacterial infections. But the recognising that high levels of
Discovery Fast Track in North America, challenge, including infectious disease and Alzheimer’s alarming growth in antibiotic resistance is antibacterial use in farming has the
a competition designed to identify promising disease, by 2015. making this once impossible scenario potential to increase resistance.
academic research that could accelerate more probable.
We adopt flexible business models that
We are also participating in a range of
development of new therapies. The eight
enable us to use our expertise to address Antibiotic resistance, which is the ability collaborations to address the challenges
projects selected target important unmet
areas of unmet medical need where there is of a microorganism to withstand the of delivering new antibiotics to the market,
medical needs, including antibiotics
not necessarily potential for commercial effects of an antibiotic, has coincided with including New Drugs for 4 Bad Bugs –
resistance, diseases of the developing world
return. Central to this is our open innovation declining antibacterial drug development. the key programme of the Innovative
and certain types of cancer. The winners will
strategy, which has transformed our As a result, the world is seeing isolated Medicines Initiative. Through this
be granted access to GSK’s screening
approach to intellectual property and infections of multi-resistant bacteria that unprecedented initiative, we have led the
technology, compound libraries and
external partnerships. are untreatable with existing drugs. development of three new collaborative
expertise in drug discovery.
While our current open innovation models Despite the challenging scientific, models on clinical trial, basic research and
Trust in Science, our partnership with focus on diseases of the developing world, regulatory and commercial environment, drug discovery, which has created a single
government funding agencies, aims to build we are also exploring ways to extend these we are one of the few pharmaceutical vision, a comprehensive research plan,
a sustainable, long-term scientific research models to solve other pressing health companies committed to delivering new and a fully collaborative framework
base in Latin America and Africa. The challenges, including anti-microbial antibacterials to help address the agreement that takes into account the
initiative partners GSK teams with other resistance and non-communicable diseases growing threat of antibacterial resistance. interest of all partners involved.
scientists to develop medicines for diseases such as Alzheimer’s. This commitment includes: With one of our investigational
affecting the regions, focusing on infectious
• A dedicated R&D team focused on antibacterials due to enter phase III
diseases as well as non-communicable For example, we are working with others to
antibiotics research that has resulted development in 2014/2015, we are already
diseases. Eleven new projects were selected encourage research into new antibiotics
in three antibacterial compounds in the seeing evidence that our approach to
for support in Brazil and Argentina in 2013, through the Innovative Medicines Initiative (IMI),
early stages of clinical trails. antibiotics R&D is working. This potential
in addition to the 26 existing active projects one of the largest public-private partnerships in
new medicine was discovered by GSK
in Latin America, and we also launched Trust global health research (see page 47). GSK is • Endorsing the appropriate use of scientists and is being developed in
in Science in Africa. We received 182 also leading IMI’s PharmaCog project, which antibacterials, aiming to reduce resistance partnership with the USA’s Defense Threat
proposals in Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda, aims to accelerate the development of new by ensuring that the right medicine is Reduction Agency and Biomedical
eight of which were selected in the areas drugs for Alzheimer’s disease, and we are prescribed at the right dose, for the right Advanced Research and Development
of malaria, HIV, nutrition, maternal health funding the UK Dementias Research duration (antibacterial stewardship). Authority – highlighting the merits of
and COPD. Platform. Led by the Medical Research
collaboration in this area.
Council, the platform is a public-private • Ongoing efforts to engage with scientific
partnership that seeks to improve the ability to and medical communities and share
detect signs of early-stage findings from our own R&D.
neurodegenerative disease and support the
development of new treatments.Note to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 19
Innovative science to
create value for all
continued
In early 2014, we joined the Accelerated As part of this commitment, we have already Open Lab In 2013, the Wellcome Trust awarded an
Medicines Partnership (AMP), a new screened GSK’s entire compound library of Research at our Open Lab in Tres Cantos, additional £5 million to GSK that will take
partnership between the National Institutes over two million compounds for any that may Spain, is focused on discovering and our open approach a step further. It will
of Health (NIH), ten pharmaceutical inhibit malaria or TB, identifying 13,500 and developing new medicines for diseases of enable researchers at the Open Lab to
companies, and three non-profit 180 promising ‘hits’ respectively. By making the developing world (see page 26). Here, tackle the next phase of drug development
organisations. The goal of the AMP is to information on these hits available, we hope we do not generate or direct projects; with the aim of turning promising active
transform the current model for developing to encourage other scientists to carry out we simply support the ideas of others. compounds into high quality experimental
new diagnostics and treatments in additional research that will drive the By the end of 2013, 38 visiting scientists drugs. The funding will help progress the
challenging disease areas by jointly discovery of new treatments against these have made use of the open lab, working on most promising projects underway by
identifying and validating promising diseases. Our malaria compound set is part early stage research alongside our independent scientists at the Open Lab and
biological targets. Work will begin in three of the ‘malaria box set’ that Medicines for scientists, and are utilising our facilities, from GSK’s own research portfolio.
disease areas: Alzheimer’s disease, Malaria Ventures has sent to more than resources and knowledge to advance their
2 U.S. National Institutes of Health, http://www.nih.gov/
diabetes, and the autoimmune disorders, 160 groups around the world. We have also own research projects. Since the Open Lab news/health/jun2013/ncats-18.htm
rheumatoid arthritis and lupus, with an initial shared our TB compound set with more than was established in 2010, it has built up a
investment of more than $188 million. GSK ten research groups around the world. portfolio of 35 research projects, one-third
will be participating in, and providing Through our Open Lab initiative, researchers of which are now complete.
funding for, the Alzheimer’s pilot. The data are also screening our compound library for
and analyses generated through this work ‘hits’ that could ultimately lead to new
will be made publicly available to the broad treatments for neglected tropical diseases
biomedical community. (see page 26).
We are also working in collaboration with In 2013, we participated in an innovative pilot
partners in industry and academia to project led by the U.S. National Center for
enhance approaches to delivering new Advancing Translational Sciences, enabling
clinical candidates against multi-drug- academic researchers to evaluate compounds
resistant tuberculosis (TB). we released for new therapeutic uses. We also
partnered with InnoCentive to utilise their
Sharing our research
global network of problem solvers to come up
The industry average time from discovery
with solutions to key challenges through
to approval of a new drug is more than
‘crowdsourcing’. For example, more than 675
13 years, with a failure rate of over 95%2.
solvers from 57 countries responded to our
We believe that by sharing our research
challenge to explain an unusual toxicity profile,
findings – on our successes and failures
resulting in 33 credible proposals, from which
– we can accelerate the drug development
two were ultimately pursued.
process by helping others build on our
existing research, and stimulate innovation We also enable independent researchers
to develop new therapies for patients. to examine the findings and conduct their
own analyses to further medical research
(see page 40).Note to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 20
Access to healthcare We are committed to improving access to our products – irrespective of where
people live or their ability to pay – by focusing on the affordability and
availability of our products, and investing in strengthening health systems.
Lack of access to healthcare is most acute We also encourage governments to adopt The DCMA unit adopts a lower price/higher immunisation programmes for some of the
in the world’s poorest countries. Millions of public policies that support differential volume approach in developing countries, world’s poorest countries. GAVI-eligible
people in regions and communities with pricing through, for instance, our continued and employees are incentivised to increase countries – those with a Gross National
limited resources still can’t access the support for the EU’s Tiered Pricing volumes of medicines delivered, rather than Income per capita of US$1,570 or below
healthcare they need, including vital Regulation and our work with the UK’s just focusing on the revenue they bring in. – always get our lowest prices, which can
vaccines, medicines and diagnostics. Industry Government Forum on Access Since the unit was established in 2010, the be as little as one-tenth of those for
to Medicines. volume of medicines we supply to LDCs has developed countries. Our approach is
To improve access, we employ innovative
increased by 60% to 89 million packs of designed to support governments making
funding mechanisms and use a flexible Pricing in developing countries
product in 2013. a long-term investment in immunisation
pricing approach that is based on a For millions of people in resource-poor
and reflects our desire to enable countries
country’s wealth and ability to pay, as well settings, affordability is a significant barrier Since 2009, we have capped the prices of
to expand upon their commitment to
as working to improve availability of our to getting the medicines they need. In 2013, our patented medicines in LDCs at no more
immunisation as their economies grow.
products for the people who need them. GSK commissioned the first ever global than 25% of prices charged in developed
But even when vaccines and medicines are study to identify healthcare innovations in countries – provided they cover our
“G iving countries prices for vaccines
available, there aren’t always enough trained developing countries that could be manufacturing costs so we can sustain
health workers to administer them. To help replicated to increase access to affordable these prices in the long term. that reflect their ability to pay enables
address this challenge, we are helping to medicine. The study, conducted by the them to plan programmatically and
Capped prices apply to brands that treat
strengthen healthcare infrastructure, with a International Centre for Social Franchising,
financially, which should ultimately
non-communicable diseases such as
particular focus on training health workers. assessed opportunities to scale up and
asthma and COPD, as well as infectious create better predictability. In return,
replicate over 900 healthcare programmes
Affordability and found that, for the most part, existing diseases such as malaria. We have also vaccine companies will be able to
reduced the prices of our off-patent
healthcare delivery models target the more access wider markets, increase their
Commitment antibiotics, Augmentin and Zinnat, by up to
affluent emerging middle class, rather than
50% in certain countries, and all vaccines production volumes (which will reduce
the poorest.
Further embed our flexible pricing strategy and are capped at 25% of the West European their manufacturing costs), and have
innovative business models for our prescription
By increasing the overall volume of products average price.
medicines and vaccines, to increase usage among the opportunity to do the right thing
those less able to access and afford our products. we sell, we are able to sustain lower prices
Our vaccines are included in immunisation for people who need, but cannot afford,
on our essential medicines and vaccines for
Our innovative business models offer a those most in need. Our Developing campaigns in 170 countries worldwide. In their vaccines today.”
range of options to improve affordability of Countries and Market Access (DCMA) 2013, we delivered 862 million vaccine
our medicines and vaccines, including price operating unit has a clear objective to doses, over 80% of them for use in Dr Seth Berkley
caps for the poorest countries, flexible and increase patient access to GSK medicines developing countries. CEO, The GAVI Alliance
tiered pricing in middle-income countries, and vaccines for around 800 million people
In 2013, we refined our approach to
and support for governments and low- in Least Developed Countries (LDCs), while
vaccines pricing by increasing the number
income patients in high-income countries. expanding our market presence and
of pricing tiers and basing price ranges on
ensuring that our business continues
We have used a tiered pricing model for Gross National Income per capita. The
to be sustainable.
vaccines for over 20 years, enabling us to lowest tier, tier 7, corresponds to GAVI
produce and reliably supply effective, eligible countries. GSK is a long-standing
high-quality vaccines and support the partner of the GAVI Alliance, which funds
continuous development of new vaccines.Note to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 21
Access to healthcare
continued
In 2013, we committed to provide an flexible pricing and innovative payment Managing healthcare costs in high-income In Europe, we tailor our approach to specific
additional 240 million doses of Synflorix to schemes that enable more people to access countries country needs and work with governments to
the GAVI Alliance for use in developing our products, while growing our business by High-income countries also face challenges demonstrate value for patients, payers,
countries over the next ten years. This will increasing the volumes we sell. Our Market related to the affordability of healthcare. healthcare professionals, taxpayers and our
help to protect up to 80 million more Access and Pricing team is responsible for Public healthcare budgets in Europe are industry. For example, we partner with the
children from pneumococcal diseases, such developing innovative pricing strategies and under immense pressure as a result of the Italian government to enable earlier patient
as meningitis and pneumonia – the leading establishing market access programmes to economic environment and over 15% of access to innovative medicines by sharing
cause of death in children under five in make GSK medicines available to as many Americans lacked health insurance risk and responsibility through Managed
developing countries. This is in addition to patients as possible in these countries. coverage in 2012.3 Entry Schemes. These include cost sharing
the 480 million doses of the vaccine that we which discounts the price of Arzerra, our
Where affordability remains a barrier, we In these markets we also take a responsible
have already committed to GAVI through the leukaemia drug; risk sharing, which discounts
offer a range of payment schemes that approach to prices. It is important that they
Advance Market Commitment framework the price of initial therapies for non-
makes it easier for more patients to afford reflect the value our medicines bring to
that offers heavily discounted vaccines for responder patients; and pay-for-performance
the treatments they need, often by patients. But we are also very mindful of the
children living in the world’s poorest for our Votrient and Tyverb drugs, which fully
partnering with NGOs. These include: burden of healthcare costs. That’s why we
countries. In 2013, we supplied 31 million reimburses costs for non-responder patients.
pricing according to patient income; have priced our newly launched products at
doses of the vaccine for introductory
monthly payment plans that help patients or below the prices of those currently
vaccine programmes in four countries.
manage the cost of treatments; and available, despite their positively
GSK has also committed 132 million doses discount cards that enable eligible patients differentiated profiles. 3 Source: http://www.hsph.harvard.edu/news/hsph-in-the-
news/global-health-noncommunicable-diseases-bloom/
of Rotarix to GAVI over the next five years, to receive direct discounts when picking up
which will help protect 60 million children their prescriptions in our partner
against rotavirus gastroenteritis – which kills pharmacies. For example, in 2013 we Protecting girls and women against cervical cancer in Madagascar
half a million children a year worldwide. introduced a reimbursement programme in
Turkey for Volibris (used to treat pulmonary
In addition to Synflorix and Rotarix, in 2013 In November 2013, 15,000 girls (aged 9-13 GSK has committed to supply its cervical
arterial hypertension), and enabled 270
we announced a new commitment to the years) living in Madagascar, Africa, were cancer vaccine, Cervarix, to the GAVI
metastatic breast cancer patients in India to
GAVI Alliance to supply our cervical cancer vaccinated against Human Papillomavirus Alliance at a reduced price. Initially, the
access Tyverb through a scheme that offers
vaccine, Cervarix, as part of a long-term (HPV) – the leading cause of cervical cancer vaccine will be supplied to GAVI
patients who complete six months of
programme to help protect girls and women – as part of a demonstration project demonstration projects, allowing
treatment an additional month free of
against cervical cancer in the world’s supported by Ministry of Health, UNICEF, governments to gain practical knowledge,
charge, where appropriate.
poorest countries (see case study). WHO and GAVI Alliance. before scaling-up immunisation programmes
Middle-income countries benefit from tiered nationally.
Flexible pricing in middle-income countries Madagascar is one of seven sub-Saharan
pricing of our vaccines and we also supply
Our approach to pricing in middle-income countries to collaborate with GAVI as part of By 2020, GAVI expects more than 30 million
vaccines to the Pan American Health
countries is based on a recognition of the a long-term programme to help protect girls girls in the world’s poorest countries to have
Organization, which purchases on behalf of
economic and social diversity (and disparity) against cervical cancer in the developing been immunised with HPV vaccines.
middle-income countries in Latin America
that exists within these countries. We have world – where more than 85% of cervical
and the Caribbean.
cancer deaths occur.Note to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 22
Access to healthcare
continued
In the USA, GSK offers several patient- Availability of our products Joining forces to increase impact New formulations to better meet
assistance programmes to help eligible In 2013, we expanded our global patient needs
patients get the prescription medicines or Commitment programmes to combine the strengths We are looking for ways to increase access to
treatments they need. Programmes include: of our Pharmaceuticals and Consumer respiratory treatments in developing countries
Continue to build a core range of products and formats Healthcare businesses through by reducing pack sizes and engineering
• Commitment to Access for cancer to better meet the needs of people across the globe,
collaborations to better meet patient needs. low-cost formulations to reach greater
or specialty treatments. including those less able to access and afford our
products. numbers of patients. For example, we have
For example, our businesses have joined
• Bridges to Access for non-cancer re-engineered Ventolin Rotacaps using a
Increasing access requires making forces to tackle COPD, a debilitating, version of our established GSK inhaler
medicines.
medicines not only more affordable, but also incurable, and potentially fatal lung condition technology, but one that is five times less
• GSK Vaccines Access Program for more available. For effective treatment, affecting more than 200 million people expensive to produce. The new inhaler is
providing vaccines to adult applicants. patients need the right medicines in the globally and chiefly caused by smoking – available in four markets – the Philippines,
right place at the right time. To increase blamed for 90% of COPD deaths. Indonesia, Kenya and Nigeria – and we have
• GSK Access for senior and disabled the availability of our products, we are As many as two-fifths of COPD patients submitted it for regulatory approval in other
patients enrolled in Medicare Part D. expanding our portfolios and product continue to smoke. We are talking to doctors markets. Ultimately we hope it will open up
In 2013, 316,580 eligible patients enrolled registrations in developing countries, and pharmacists not only about treatment for access to many more patients who are
in our U.S. Patient Assistance Programs, harnessing the combined capabilities of our appropriate patients with Seretide (Advair), currently unable to afford inhaled respiratory
which provided prescribed GSK medicines Consumer Healthcare and Pharmaceutical our respiratory medicine, but also how our medicines.
divisions, and increasing local manufacturing NiQuitin and other smoking cessation
and vaccines worth a total of US$176
and capacity building in the markets we serve. products can help those affected, or at risk, Other new formulations have the potential
million (£112 million), up from $159 million
to quit tobacco. We are working with to revolutionise paediatric healthcare.
(£100 million) in 2012. Portfolio expansion and product registration pharmacies too, to promote awareness and For example, we are working with Biological E.,
We remain committed to improving We are committed to expanding our portfolios earlier diagnosis of this under-recognised a leading Indian vaccines company,
productivity in R&D so we can develop more by increasing the availability of our medicines condition. The programme is live in Brazil, on a first-of-its-kind combination paediatric
innovative new medicines with greater for non-communicable diseases, such as Argentina, Australia, Turkey and Russia and vaccine to protect children from polio and
efficiency. The improved efficiencies that cancer and diabetes, as well as infectious is being further expanded. other infectious diseases. The new fully
we are seeing within our R&D business diseases in developing countries (see page 25). liquid formulation will enable fewer
organisation are also enabling us to be more As part of this effort, we are working with In another collaboration, we are working injections for children, to improve
flexible with the pricing of our medicines. regulators to increase the registration of with pharmacies to enhance how we help compliance in immunisation schedules.
medicines in our existing portfolio. patients and consumers get the treatments
and advice they need. For people in
Through our ‘catch up’ programme, which developing regions like Africa, pharmacies
aims to bring more of our established products are a chief source for healthcare. In Africa,
to developing countries, we received approvals this programme will start in Nigeria, Kenya,
for a further 26 products treating non- Angola, and Côte d’Ivoire in 2014, with
communicable diseases, respiratory, more countries to follow. By increasing our
antibiotics and oncology in 2013. We are also contacts with pharmacies, we can boost
offering affordable pricing options on new availability of healthcare and expert advice
drugs when they first enter a market. to those who need them.Note to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 23
Access to healthcare
continued
Local manufacturing and capability building Strengthening healthcare systems Africa, Save the Children in West and We also help to strengthen healthcare
GSK has 46 manufacturing sites outside Central Africa, and CARE International in systems through our initiatives to tackle
Europe and North America. By operating Commitment Asia, we invested £5.1 million in 2013 counterfeit medicines (see Our Behaviour,
local manufacturing sites, we develop the (based on 2012 profits) and a total of page 46).
skills and technical expertise of the Continue to work with partners to support the £15 million since 2009 to train and build
development and strengthening of healthcare
workforce in these countries and cut down capacity among health workers.
infrastructure. We anticipate this could improve access
the costs of production and transportation. to healthcare for 20 million under-served people by Preparing for pandemic
Projects include training over 800
2020 (vs 2012).
Transferring the technology to produce drugs community health workers in Angola to care
In 2013, we signed an agreement with the
and vaccines is one of the most sustainable GSK is committed to strengthening for nearly 30,000 mothers and young
World Health Organization to donate
ways to bridge the access gap between the healthcare infrastructure in developing children suffering from malaria, respiratory
7.5% of our ‘real time’ pandemic influenza
developed and developing world. We have a countries by working with partners to explore and diarrhoeal diseases; equipping
vaccine production, and two million
number of joint ventures and technology new healthcare delivery models and community health volunteers with the skills
treatment courses of antiviral medicine for
transfer arrangements that help build the supporting projects in 34 of the world’s needed to screen 7,862 children for
distribution to countries most in need in
capabilities of developing countries to Least Developed Countries (LDCs). In doing malnutrition in Liberia; and reaching more
the event of a future pandemic.
research and manufacture vaccines, while so, we hope to improve access to healthcare than one million people and 31,000
increasing our access to markets. For for 20 million under-served people by 2020. expectant mothers in Nepal by training This agreement, known as a Standard
example, our joint venture with Biological E. health workers and providing operational Material Transfer Agreement 2, confirms
We continued to work towards this goal in
in India is working on the early stage support and equipment. Details of all our that, in the event of a pandemic, vaccines
2013 by training more community health
research and development of a new projects can be found on our website. will be available to the WHO as soon as
workers, scaling up our activities with
paediatric vaccine (see page 22). We also the first production cycle is completed. In
non-profit partners, and collaborating with Where possible, we conduct in-depth
have long-standing technology transfer and addition to the donation, GSK will also
companies in other sectors to create innovative monitoring to track our progress. In 2013,
manufacturing agreements with the Oswaldo reserve further volumes of pandemic
models to strengthen healthcare systems. we also committed US$750,000 to the
Cruz Foundation in Brazil in areas essential vaccine (2.5% of ‘real time’ production)
One Million Community Health Workers
to Brazil’s universal immunisation Reinvesting in the community and antiviral medicine (eight million
campaign led by the United Nations
programme. In 2013, we announced plans Since 2009, we have reinvested 20% of the treatment courses), should they be
Sustainable Development Solutions
to develop a new £85 million manufacturing profits we generate in LDCs into community required.
Network, which will fund a new online
facility in India, where we have invested over programmes that strengthen healthcare
‘Operations Room’ to monitor the progress
£100 million in building our manufacturing systems and improve access to healthcare
of the campaign’s efforts to train growing
network over the last decade. in these countries.
numbers of health workers in sub-Saharan
Training frontline community health workers, Africa. The overall goal is to ensure one
who can reach millions of people in remote, million health workers are operating in rural
rural areas with vaccines, medicines and areas by 2015 and help meet the health-
advice, is central to our 20% programme. related Millennium Development Goals.
Working with AMREF in East and SouthernNote to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 24
Access to healthcare
continued
Partnering to explore new healthcare We continue to work with One Family Health,
delivery models an enterprise that uses a franchise system for
Lack of finance and poor access to nurses to own and operate local clinics, to
essential medicines have been identified by extend access to basic healthcare in Kenya
the World Health Organization as major and Rwanda. In 2013, we committed
barriers to strengthening healthcare £1.8 million over three years to help open
systems in Africa. In September 2013, we 180 nurse-owned Child and Family Wellness
announced a new partnership with Barclays health posts in Rwanda, with the support of the
to increase access to affordable healthcare Rwandan government.
and medicines in Zambia while supporting
small business development and job
creation. Together, we will invest up to
£7 million over three years in a project that
will explore how to build a cost effective
private sector medicine supply chain,
establish small enterprise health outlets,
test an affordable micro health insurance
product and embed healthcare education in
existing community finance networks. We
aim to reach one million Zambians by 2016,
Improving healthcare and delivering safe water in Senegal and create a model that can be scaled up
and replicated across Africa.
Through our 20% reinvestment maternal and neo-natal deaths and
Our partnership with Vodafone is
programme, we are helping to improve post-abortion care, and educating 49
harnessing the power of mobile technology
access to healthcare services for young community health workers on home births
to help increase vaccination rates for
children and mothers in Senegal, where and how to raise awareness of important
children in Africa against common infectious
many children under five die from health issues among the community.
diseases. Mobile phones are used to create
preventable diseases such as diarrhoea,
In addition, the project has also trained vaccine records, send text message
malaria and pneumonia.
36 health workers and community leaders reminders to mothers, and share stock data
Building on an existing GSK health on community-led sanitation, taught in real time to ensure vaccines are available
and sanitation project, our partner, 12 bricklayers to build ventilated latrines, when and where they are needed. In 2013,
Save the Children, has trained 101 and cleaned up local water sources we set up an initial one-year pilot project
nurses, improving their knowledge of to ensure a safe water supply for over with 90 clinics in Mozambique.
immunisation, conducting audits of 34,000 people.Note to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 25
Access to healthcare
continued
Focus on non-communicable diseases
When it comes to public health issues in Access and Affordability
the developing world, the focus has been Our Developing Countries and Market
predominantly on infectious diseases such Access unit is responsible for increasing
as malaria. Yet chronic non-communicable patient access to our medicines and
diseases (NCDs) – such as diabetes, vaccines in developing countries (see
cancer, cardiovascular and chronic page 20). We also focus on educating
respiratory diseases – account for nearly healthcare providers to recognise
half of deaths and disabilities in countries symptoms and treatment options. When
with the lowest incomes – and are our analysis revealed high levels of under
growing fast. treatment and under diagnosis of asthma
in five urban centres (in Bangladesh,
The lack of focus on NCDs in developing
Cambodia, Kenya, Senegal and Zambia),
countries is compounded by the
we rolled out respiratory ‘masterclass’
misperception that diseases like cancer
awareness and education sessions in key
are a developed world disease. But
regions, educating healthcare
changing lifestyles and demographics
professionals on asthma diagnosis and
mean that the global burden of NCDs, is
treatment options. Similarly, we are
in fact, in the developing world: 80% of
supporting several training programmes
NCD-related deaths occur in low-and
for health care providers in Africa, ranging
middle-income countries.4 Tackling this
from basic oncology training for general
significant challenge is an important focus
doctors to formal pathology training for
for GSK and, to do so, we have adopted a Partnership In December 2013, we announced the
specialist doctors.
strategic approach on NCDs with a We partner with several organisations formation of the Oncology Clinical and
particular emphasis on developing Prevention and Health Education that focus on combating NCDs in the Translational Consortium, a collaborative
countries. This includes: The four main risk factors that contribute developing world. For example, we are scientific research network comprised of
to the onset of NCDs are smoking, working with Amgen, a biopharmaceutical six internationally renowned
Innovation and Research
alcohol, poor diet and lack of exercise. company, to use our expertise in several comprehensive cancer centres in North
We have assets in clinical development
Our Consumer business has several Asian countries to support the launch of America and Europe. The consortium will
for all four of the priority NCDs, and we
initiatives that address these risk factors, Vectibix for patients with metastatic foster scientific collaboration among the
are working to adapt our existing products
focusing in particular on smoking colorectal cancer. In Bangladesh, we members and GSK in preclinical,
to better meet the needs of patients in
cessation, better oral health and improved support an NGO seeking to establish translational and clinical development
emerging markets. For example, we are
nutrition. For example, for patients with breast cancer screening programmes of novel anticancer therapeutics.
conducting research on improving Flolan,
COPD, we are working to tackle the that use mobile phones to increase
our treatment for advanced stages of
condition’s chief cause, smoking (see adherence to treatment programmes
pulmonary arterial hypertension, to allow 4 Source: http://www.hsph.harvard.edu/news/hsph-in-
page 22). for women with breast cancer. the-news/global-health-noncommunicable-diseases-
greater stability at higher temperatures. bloom/Note to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 26
Diseases of the Neglected tropical diseases, polio and malaria affect billions of people in the
world’s most vulnerable communities. We aim to help treat, prevent and
developing world
ultimately eliminate these diseases.
Tackling diseases of the developing world Neglected tropical diseases Progress to date Researching new treatments
not only improves health, but boosts Progress against the commitments made Existing treatments for Visceral
economic development. We work with Commitment under the London Declaration is tracked Leishmaniasis – an NTD that is fatal if left
partners in the public and private sectors through an annual public scorecard. In the untreated – can be both costly and
to research new vaccines, engage Help to eliminate and control ten neglected tropical first two years of the partnership, over 40 challenging. We are investing in the
diseases that affect 1.4 billion people, by 2020
communities in adopting preventive endemic countries have developed multi- development of a better, more affordable
– including the elimination of lymphatic filariasis,
measures, and make medicines and through our continued investment in R&D, ongoing year plans to fight NTDs. GSK and other treatment at our specialist R&D unit in Tres
treatments available and affordable. product donations and our contribution to the London pharmaceutical partners are meeting Cantos (see page 19). We are screening
In 2013, we achieved a major milestone Declaration on Neglected Tropical Diseases. increased requests for drugs. our compound library for molecules that
in the development of the world’s first inhibit the growth of the leishmania parasite
Neglected tropical diseases (NTDs) present GSK has now donated more than 4 billion
malaria vaccine and intend to file for and are working with the University of
significant health risks to the world’s albendazole tablets to support efforts to
approval in 2014. Dundee in a project to identify a class of
poorest communities. More than one billion eliminate LF in 58 countries and de-worm
chemicals to combat this parasite.
We also advocate the adoption of public people, including 800 million children, are school-age children in 46 countries.
policies that provide adequate financing for affected by NTDs. Symptoms can often Our albendazole donation programme We are also researching new treatments for
mechanisms such as the GAVI Alliance prevent people from working and children has reached over 600 million people – African trypanosomiasis (sleeping sickness)
(funding immunisation in poor countries) from going to school, making it harder for 200 million of whom are children – since that can be administered orally. By
and the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, TB and them to escape poverty. it began in 2000. In 2013, we donated eliminating the need for injections from
Malaria. We are on the Board of the Roll 648 million albendazole tablets for LF trained healthcare workers, this aims to
As a leading partner of the London Declaration,
Back Malaria Partnership, and we are a elimination and 115 million tablets to treat increase availability of treatment in
GSK is working with the Bill & Melinda
founding member of the Global Alliance soil-transmitted helminths. These donations communities and reduce strain on medical
Gates Foundation, WHO, other
to Eliminate LF. support the WHO’s 2020 goals to eliminate services. Through our Open Lab
pharmaceutical companies, donors and
LF globally and deworm 75% of school age collaboration with Northeastern University
national governments to help control or
children in countries where intestinal worms and the Spanish Research Council, 32
eliminate 10 of the 17 NTDs that affect over
are endemic. promising chemical hits were identified in
1 billion people by 2020. Our most
2013, which are being investigated further.
significant contribution to this collective We are also working with logistics partners
commitment is in the elimination of to improve the supply and delivery of NTD Open Lab collaborations with New York
lymphatic filariasis (LF) and control of donations from manufactures to recipient University and the University of Georgia also
soil-transmitted helminths (intestinal worms) countries. Donors and endemic country aim to develop more effective treatments
through the donation of albendazole tablets, leaders have committed over US$785 million for American trypanosomiasis (Chagas
as well as collaborating with public and up to 2020, but more is needed. We are Disease) using GSK’s compound library.
private partners to research new treatments working with partners to close funding gaps,
for other NTDs. while supporting the development of new
medicines and diagnostic tools to find,
investigate, treat and prevent these diseases.Note to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 27
Diseases of the
developing world
continued
Polio Immunisation programmes using the oral Malaria The health impact of the RTS,S vaccine was
polio vaccine (OPV) are relatively evaluated in the context of existing malaria
Commitment inexpensive and because it is taken orally, Commitment control measures, such as insecticide-
the vaccine can be distributed by volunteers treated bed nets, in 11 research centres in
Continue to support the WHO objective of eradicating without the need for a trained healthcare Build on our 30 year commitment to contribute to the seven African countries. The latest trial
polio by 2018 by providing vaccines to UNICEF until fight against malaria through continued R&D investment
worker or injection equipment. In 2013, we results demonstrated that the vaccine
this is achieved. and partnerships on the ground.
provided 412 million doses to the Global continued to protect young children and
Polio has been eradicated in many Polio Eradication Initiative (GPEI), a public- Malaria is one of the world’s deadliest infants from clinical malaria up to 18 months
countries, but is still endemic in private partnership led by national diseases and affects many of the world’s after vaccination.
Afghanistan, Nigeria and Pakistan, and governments and the WHO. poorest people. An estimated 3.4 billion
Based on these findings, we plan to submit
there have been recent outbreaks in Syria. people – more than half the world’s population
Since 1988, we have contributed over a regulatory application to the European
We are committed to supporting the WHO – are at risk of contracting the disease.
15.8 billion doses and we have committed Medicines Agency (EMA) in 2014. If
objective to eradicate polio completely by Approximately 627,000 malaria-related deaths
to meeting at least 30% of the GPEI’s approved, the WHO believes that a policy
2018, by providing vaccines to UNICEF are reported each year, mainly children under
current polio vaccine requirements, recommendation for the vaccine candidate
until this is achieved. If this objective is not five living in sub-Saharan Africa. Malaria
procured through UNICEF, until 2017. We could be possible by 2015. We will partner
achieved, the WHO estimates that we could related illnesses and mortality cost Africa’s
are systematically stockpiling OPV to meet with multiple stakeholders, including African
see 200,000 new cases each year economy nearly $12 billion a year.
this demand which is expected to require governments, to ensure that the delivery and
worldwide within a decade.
around 1.5 billion doses. GSK is committed to tackling malaria by implementation of the vaccine across Africa
GSK has played a leading role in efforts to researching a vaccine, developing new takes place as rapidly as possible.
In countries where polio has been
eradicate polio over the last 60 years, and treatments, promoting use of existing
eradicated, OPV will be phased out and This ground-breaking achievement builds
we continue to collaborate and innovate to preventive measures and increasing access
replaced with the inactivated polio vaccine on our 30-year commitment to combat
achieve this goal and prevent the disease for anti-malarials in Least Developed Countries.
(IPV) to prevent the (very low) risk of polio malaria through continued R&D investment
resurfacing in countries already declared
re-emerging from the live vaccine itself. We Achieving a milestone on a vaccine and partnerships on the ground. We have
‘polio free’.
already produce and supply IPV to a variety In 2013, we achieved a major milestone invested $350 million in the development of
As a global healthcare company, our role of developed countries, and we are in the development of the world’s first RTS,S through a public-private partnership
includes manufacturing vaccines and using investing in developing lower cost malaria vaccine. RTS,S, the most clinically with the PATH Malaria Vaccine Initiative
our research expertise to explore new ways combination vaccines (containing the advanced malaria vaccine candidate to date, (MVI) and support from the Bill & Melinda
of tackling polio. We also price vaccines to vaccines for polio and other diseases in almost halved the number of malaria cases Gates Foundation.
help make sure those in need can access a single vaccine) for the developing world in young children (aged 5-17 months at first
The price of RTS,S will cover the cost of
them, while investing in next-generation (see page 20). vaccination) and reduced by around a
manufacturing the vaccine together with
products. As part of our long-term quarter the malaria cases in infants (aged
a small return of around 5% that will be
commitment to fighting polio and preventing 6-12 weeks at first vaccination), as shown by
reinvested in R&D for second-generation
its resurgence, we have invested in building the results of our large-scale phase III trial,
malaria vaccines, or vaccines against other
manufacturing facilities to ensure a long- published in October 2013.
tropical diseases.
term supply of vaccines. For example, we
are investing €320 million in building a new
facility in Wavre, Belgium, which will begin
production in 2018.Note to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 28
Diseases of the
developing world
continued
Developing new treatments
As resistance to current malaria treatments Read more online
increase, we are supporting the
We publish more detail online on key
development of new medicines at our
issues including:
research facility in Tres Cantos (see page 19).
We are developing a medicine, Tafenoquine, • Clinical trials in the developing world
in partnership with Medicines for Malaria
• Developing world vaccine production
Venture (MMV) for the treatment and
technology transfer
relapse prevention of vivax malaria (a strain
that affects millions of people in Asia and • IP and access to medicines in
South America). Based on clinical trial developing countries
results, we will further progress the
• Pandemic preparedness and
development of this investigational medicine
developing countries
in the hope that this could offer a convenient
single dose alternative to the current 14-day • Technology transfer, capacity building
standard treatment. In 2013, the U.S. Food and developing countries
and Drug Administration granted
• Working together for the health of mothers
Tafenoquine Breakthrough Therapy
and children
designation.
Partnering with Tony Blair Faith Foundation in Sierra Leone • GSK briefing on non-communicable
Promoting preventive measures
diseases in the developing world
GSK works to improve the prevention and
treatment of malaria in sub-Saharan Africa As part of our commitment to expanding contacted since September 2011, • GSK position statement on the post
through the Africa Malaria Partnership, healthcare access in rural communities, confirming they are acting on the advice 2015 development agenda
we are partnering with the Tony Blair Faith provided.
which supports local NGO programmes. • Pricing and reimbursement
Foundation (TBFF) in Sierra Leone to
We have committed more than £4 million to
We are investing £780,000 in the
community initiatives since 2001, and have reach 4.8 million people – nearly 80% of • Product donations
programme and, with GSK’s support,
the population – with vital malaria
partnered with organisations on the ground
TBFF will continue to scale up its work in
prevention education by 2015.
to promote the use of existing interventions,
Sierra Leone to reach 600,000 more
such as bed nets and indoor residual
Through a pioneering healthcare model, households. We plan to explore similar
spraying. These projects focus on
TBFF has trained more than 450 local opportunities in other countries that have
community health worker training and
religious leaders, who in turn educated a high malaria burden and where this
community empowerment, as well as
11,000 ‘Malaria Faith Champions’ frontline model could be effective.
reaching pregnant women and children
messengers who engage with specific
under five years. In Ghana, we are working
families. The programme has already
with human development organisation FHI
reached around one million people, with
360; in Nigeria with the Carter Center; in
nearly 80% of the 222,484 households
Kenya with Save the Children; and in
Tanzania with AMREF.Note to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 29
HIV/AIDS ViiV Healthcare, a global specialist HIV company established by GSK and Pfizer
in 2009, and joined by Shionogi in 2012, is dedicated to tackling HIV –
researching new treatments, improving access to medicines, and working with
communities to combat stigma and discrimination.
Over 35 million people live with HIV. ViiV Progress with the pipeline ViiV Healthcare also supports collaborative Improving access to HIV treatment
Healthcare is researching new treatments, There are currently four other clinical phase research trials in resource-poor settings to
improving access to medicines, and working assets in the ViiV Healthcare portfolio and understand public health issues such as Commitment
with communities to combat stigma and several pre-clinical discovery programmes prevention of mother-to-child HIV
Through ViiV Healthcare, continue to increase access
discrimination. in partnership with a range of partners, transmission and HIV-TB co-infection. In
to our medicines and care for adults and children living
including GSK’s HIV Discovery total, at the end of 2012, 31 such clinical with HIV around the world. We will help World Health
Researching new treatments
Performance Unit, pharma/biotech and trials were underway; 11 of the 31 trials are Organization (WHO) and UNAIDS achieve their goal
ViiV Healthcare is focused on driving academic institutions engaged in the field of paediatric studies. African countries of reaching 15 million people globally with antiretroviral
innovation in HIV research and discovery. treatment by 2015.
treating HIV.5 Examples of these participating in the paediatric studies
The company’s goal is to find new ways to
partnerships are efforts to understand new include Malawi, South Africa, Tanzania, Over 16 million HIV-positive people in
limit the impact of the virus, developing new
modes of action, antibody therapy, new Uganda, Zambia and Zimbabwe. low- and middle-income countries lack
medicines that are more effective and
ways of delivering existing therapies (such access to antiretroviral (ARV) therapy.6 ViiV
improve tolerance and treatment adherence Addressing gaps in paediatric HIV
as nanotechnology and long acting delivery) Healthcare aims to play its part to meet this
over existing options. treatment and care
prevention of HIV and understanding the challenge by improving access to medicines
Even as new HIV infections among children
Launching Tivicay (dolutegravir) pathway to a functional cure of the disease. for all those who need treatment.
continue to decline, globally, an estimated
Work on our experimental integrase inhibitor
In 2013 ViiV Healthcare reached an
GSK744 continues to progress. GSK744 is 3.4 million children under the age of 15 are ViiV Healthcare’s access policy applies to
important milestone with the approval of
Tivicay, their first new treatment to be an investigational integrase inhibitor, from still living with HIV. Approximately 90% of all Middle Income Countries, Low Income
the same class as antiretroviral drugs as the these children live in Africa. One of the Countries, Least Developed Countries and
delivered. In August 2013, the U.S. FDA
approved Tivicay (dolutegravir), an recently approved Tivicay (dolutegravir). barriers preventing scale-up of treatment is all sub-Saharan African countries. Nearly
Each is a distinct new chemical entity. The the lack of affordable medicines that are 75% of HIV-positive people live in low-
investigational integrase inhibitor which
two integrase inhibitors have similar acceptable for use by children. ViiV income, least developed and sub-Saharan
blocks an HIV enzyme (integrase) and
structures and antiviral activities, but differ Healthcare is therefore prioritising research African countries, where ViiV Healthcare
prevents HIV from replicating, for adults and
with respect to certain other attributes. to improve the diagnosis, treatment and offers royalty-free voluntary licences and
children, 12 years and older, living with HIV.
GSK744 in particular has a longer care of infants and children living with HIV. not-for-profit pricing. ViiV Healthcare has
This was followed by approvals in other
elimination half life and slower absorption In addition to ViiV Healthcare’s ongoing 16 royalty-free voluntary licence agreements
markets, including Argentina, Canada and
after injection, potentially permitting its use work to develop new formulations of the with generic manufacturing companies,
Chile, and approval in Europe in January
2014. Dolutegravir brings new treatment as a long-acting injectable formulation. A current portfolio for children, ViiV located in several countries, which enables
second study of the long-acting injectable Healthcare is supporting 18 collaborative them to produce and sell low-cost versions
options to patients. In October 2013, ViiV
form of this drug is set to begin in the research trials investigating prevention of of GSK’s entire ARV portfolio to public
Healthcare also submitted regulatory
second quarter of 2014. mother-to-child HIV transmission and sector and donor agency programmes.
applications in Canada, the EU and the
paediatric treatment strategies. In addition, A voluntary licence agreement to
USA for the Single Tablet Regimen
ViiV Healthcare supports diverse research manufacture Tivicay (dolutegravir) for Low
combining dolutegravir with abacavir and
initiatives through its £10 million Paediatric Income Countries, Least Developed
lamivudine (known as ‘dolutegravir-Trii’) to
Innovation Seed Fund. Countries and sub-Saharan Africa was
reduce the number of pills required for
signed in late 2013.
people living with HIV.
5 Source http://www.unaids.org/en/resources/campaigns/
globalreport2013/factsheet/Note to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 30
HIV/AIDS
continued
In middle income countries, ViiV Healthcare Supporting communities affected by HIV
Positive Action Southern Initiative reaches vulnerable communities living with HIV
adopts a flexible pricing policy that varies Zero new infections; zero AIDS-related
in the US
according to GDP and the burden of the deaths; zero discrimination: the three
HIV epidemic in individual countries. primary goals of UNAIDS’ Getting to Zero
Another key approach is creating campaign involves a multidimensional The Southwest Louisiana AIDS Council, Eighteen months after enrolment, average
partnerships to manufacture our medicines strategy to address the HIV/AIDS one of the original grantees of the Positive CD4 counts – which indicate the strength of
locally, which brings down the cost and pandemic. ViiV Healthcare is contributing Action Southern Initiative, provides the immune system – increased from 322 to
builds skills in the local economy. An to these goals through its support of, and support and educational services for newly 460, and average levels of HIV in the blood
example of this strategy in action is the partnership with, community-based diagnosed and out of care people living of participants decreased by 82%.
commercialisation of maraviroc in India organisations that strengthen education, with HIV in rural Lake Charles, Louisiana.
“We are encouraged by these findings,
through our partner Emcure, launched in build support services and local healthcare In addition, the Council’s initiatives improve
which show that our model for linking,
December 2013. capacity, and reduce stigma and treatment and adherence services in the
engaging and retaining underserved
discrimination towards people living with region, resulting in better health outcomes.
In the USA, where nearly 1.1 million people populations with HIV into stable medical
HIV/AIDS.
live with the HIV infection,7 ViiV Healthcare Over a two-year period, 96% of individuals care are working,” said Angela Hursey
helps uninsured people access our Making an impact in prevention of enrolled in the Council’s initiatives were from the Council. “Not only are we seeing
medicines through our Patient Assistance mother-to-child transmission of HIV linked to care and treatment, and the improved linkage and retention rates, but
Program. In addition, the Patient Savings As part of our commitment to help children number of people with an undetectable we’re seeing measurable evidence that
Card Program helps all eligible patients living with HIV, the Positive Action for level of HIV in their blood rose from 37% linkage to care and treatment adherence
save on out-of-pocket costs for the ViiV Children Fund (PACF) supports 150 to 56%, reducing the risk of illness for leads to better health outcomes, including
Healthcare medication they have been organisations across 30 countries to deliver those living with HIV and the risk of higher rates of undetectable viral loads
prescribed. For Tivicay (dolutegravir), prevention of mother-to-child transmission transmission to a partner. among people with HIV.”
the total potential amount of savings was of HIV. Since March 2010, the PACF has
increased from $200 to $400 per month. committed £19.5 million, with services
reaching more than 1,280,300 women,
Improving access to medicine for Children children and families affected by HIV. In A powerful example of how one of our In 2013, over £1 million in grants were
with HIV/AIDS through the patent pool 2013, the programme focused on creating smaller PACF grants (£18,000) makes a awarded to support organisations through
In February 2013, ViiV Healthcare extended opportunities to support capacity building real difference is with the group Life ViiV Healthcare’s global Positive Action
its commitment to supporting children living among the groups who receive or apply for Concern in Malawi, which identified a programme, which has supported the
with HIV through an agreement with the our grants. For example, we have set up significant issue, that men often do not get communities most vulnerable to HIV
Medicines Patent Pool (MPP), the UNITAID- PACF Online (www.pacfonline.com), an involved in, or provide support to encourage diseases for over 22 years. Positive Action
backed public health mechanism. This online community that includes regular the uptake of Prevention of Mother to Child focuses funding on capacity building for
significant development granted MPP a training webinars so that groups can share Transmission services. The group tripled the organisations that help to improve access
voluntary licence for paediatric formulations experiences and learn from each other. number of men attending clinic visits with to care for key populations in countries
of the antiretroviral medicine, abacavir, in their partners, and reached more than where individuals are facing threats of
118 countries where 98% of HIV positive 13,000 people (half men, half women) stigma and discrimination.
children live. through community awareness campaigns.
7 Source http://www.cdc.gov/hiv/statistics/basics/
ataglance.htmlNote to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 31
Health and well-being We are committed to improving the health and well-being of communities
worldwide by funding and supporting local programmes which can make
in our communities
a real difference.
GSK supports the development of healthcare We continue to work on our PHASE Total giving by type in 2013 (%)
infrastructure and contributes to scientific (Personal Hygiene and Sanitation Education)
2
education, as well as assisting humanitarian programme in Brazil, our work with Roma
8
relief efforts. To maximise the impact of our communities in Eastern Europe to improve 24
support, we select programmes that are health education, and a number of initiatives
designed to be sustainable for the long term, aimed at improving maternal and child
partner with local and global organisations, health through our partnership with Save
and encourage our employees to participate the Children. 66
in volunteering through our Pulse and Orange
Our Patient Assistance Programs, which
Day programmes (see pages 54 and 56).
help underprivileged families in the USA
Product and financial donations access essential healthcare, accounted Cash Health and economic empowerment
Product and in-kind
In 2013, our global community investment for 51% of our total giving in 2013 (see Time for women in Latin America
totalled £221 million ($347 million), compared page 48). In line with our commitment to Management
with £206 million ($330 million) in 2012. reinvest 20% of the profits we generate in
Our three-year partnership with women’s
Least Developed Countries, we invested
We donated medicines valued at Programmes supported by financial giving in 2013 (%) development organisation, Pro Mujer,
£5.1 million in 2013 (£15 million since
aims to empower 470,000 women in
£146 million (at cost), including 763 million
2009) in training frontline community health
Latin America to lift themselves out of
albendazole tablets to fight lymphatic
workers in rural areas (see page 23). 16 poverty and give their families access to
filariasis and soil-transmitted helminths
in 2013 (see page 26).8 8 GSK values product donations at cost of goods as we basic healthcare, often for the first time.
believe this is a truer reflection of the cost to GSK than
the wholesale acquisition cost (the value cost reported By giving women access to financial
P dero livd eu rc et d d to on oa uti ro pn as r tw no err sth A £ m3 e. r8 iC m ai rll eio sn , Dw ire er ce t t ino d w uh sto rl ye s foa rl e vr as l) u iw nh gi c ph ro i ds uu cs te dd o a ns a ts it oa nn sd . a Tr hd e i n to t th ae l vP ah lua erm a 28 58 services, education and small repayment
of production donations in 2013, based on wholesale loans to start their own businesses, Pro
Relief, IMA World Health, MAP International
acquisition cost, was £512 million.
Mujer helps them improve their livelihoods,
and Project HOPE for humanitarian aid.
while contributing to a fund to pay for
These partners distributed donated medicines
Health and well-being health screenings and medical services
to 87 countries in 2013, including supplies
Education
for their families. Health screenings by
of antibiotics and basic medicines to those Other
Pro Mujer’s team of trained healthcare
affected by conflicts and natural disasters.
professionals encourage positive health
For example, the earthquake in Pakistan,
Our giving (£ million)
behaviours and support early detection
the Oklahoma tornado, and wildfires in the
2011 2012 2013 and prevention of chronic diseases.
USA. GSK also responded to the typhoon
in the Philippines by providing £1.1 million
Cash 57 54 54 Since it began in 2012, the programme
(US$1.8 million) of donated medicines, a
has already reached more than 277,000
cash donation of £178,000 (US$279,000) Product and in-kind 127 131 146
women and touched the lives of more
as well as local staff volunteering to support Time 3 3 4
than 1.1 million families in Argentina,
affected communities. Management 17 18 17
Bolivia, Mexico, Nicaragua and Peru.
Total 204 206 221Note to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 32
Health and well-being
in our communities
continued
GSK Impact Awards live up to their Loving life: Arts therapy and
name in the UK and USA psychosocial support for cancer
patients in Lithuania
GSK’s annual IMPACT Awards have
channelled more than £8 million over Loving Life, an innovative three-year
the past 17 years to over 450 charities programme across five cities in Lithuania,
that are improving health in the UK and is extending access to healthcare beyond
the USA. traditional medicine to include
psychological support and arts therapy
We are working to increase the impact of
for cancer patients and their families,
the awards through, for example, the GSK
increasing their quality of life.
IMPACT Awards Network and training
programme in the UK offers leadership In Lithuania, the healthcare system is
development and essential skill-learning focused exclusively on traditional
opportunities. The Network’s national medicine and emotional support for
summit in 2013 brought together 36 past newly diagnosed cancer patients is
winners to share the impact they have limited. Following a GSK survey that
been able to make with the £30,000 cash highlighted social integration and
prize from GSK. psychological support as unmet needs
Nurturing Talent in South Asia
for cancer patients, we developed the
In the USA, we expanded the scope of
programme in collaboration with the
the GSK IMPACT Awards to recognise Centre for Oncopsychology and Now in its 11th year, the Horlicks Wizkids Students are also recognised for their
non-profits that address pressing Communications, a local NGO. programme has become South Asia’s involvement in community projects. In
community factors – such as safety, largest interschool competition, with over 2013, these ranged from tutoring children
access to healthy foods and recreational GSK provides funding and practical 40 literary, art, creative and cultural events from an underprivileged fishing community
spaces, and the support of families and support for the implementation and for students of ages 5-18 years. to raising the profile of an orphanage. The
social networks – which contribute to expansion of the programme, which has winners are announced during a five-day
health and wellness. We also established supported over 300 patients living with Reaching out to more than six million event that includes physical training,
GSK IMPACT Grants, a new programme cancer. To stimulate the development of students across 30 cities – in Bangladesh, personal development, overall grooming,
that will support the collective impact of this type of support in Lithuania, the India, Nepal, Pakistan, Sri Lanka and UAE communication workshops, community
several non-profit partners working Centre is developing a new course on – the programme encourages individual service, team building activities and
together to improve the health of psychosocial oncology in partnership and team performance across streams like leadership skill development. The four
disadvantaged young people in the Metro with the University of Health Sciences, literature, theatre, music, quizzing, oratory winners – the Horlicks WizTeam of the
Denver, Colorado and Greater St. Louis, Lithuania, and GSK is supporting an skills, culinary skills, creative writing, IQ year – are given the opportunity to
Missouri communities. international conference for NGOs tests, art and design – subjects that do participate in an international student
working in this area, planned for 2014. not traditionally receive much focus from exchange programme.
schools in the region.Note to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 33
Our
behaviour
In focus
For GSK, how we do things is just as
important as what we do. Our values-based
Andrew is a senior scientist who has
culture is designed to ensure we put patients worked at GSK for seven years and
works in Biopharm Research and
and customers first.
Development at our Stevenage site,
in the UK. Like all our employees,
Andrew uses our values and our Code
of Conduct as a guide for decision-
making and knows that we encourage
employees to speak up when they
have concerns.
Read more on page 36
In this section
Our behaviour overview 34
Putting patients first
in sales and marketing 35
Our values and principles 36
Research practices 40
Working with healthcare professionals 43
Sales and marketing 44
Manufacturing and supply 45
Public policy and patient advocacy 47
Our approach to tax 49Note to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 34
Our behaviour
Overview
In our efforts to meet global healthcare 2013 at a glance
Our values and principles External perspective
challenges while ensuring the sustainability
of our business, we navigate a wide range Systematically assessed GSK’s human rights
impacts, and developed plans relating to our “ GSK was the first pharmaceutical
of complex ethical issues associated with
every stage of the development and delivery Our values and principles supply chain and embedding global company to join the AllTrials
standards at the country level.
of our products – from research through All employees must uphold our Code of campaign in February 2013 saying
to manufacturing and supply, to sales Conduct. In addition, over 65,000 designated See page 39 the company owes it to the
and marketing. managers completed our annual Ethical
thousands of people who have taken
Leadership Certification to certify their
Our four core values – transparency, awareness, understanding and compliance Research practices part in clinical trials to make the
respect for people, integrity, and patient- with GSK’s values and policies. To facilitate further research and progress
data they have generated available
focus – guide us in everything we do. medical science and patient care we
65,000
And our people, our partners and our launched an online request system where for scrutiny. Many organisations
suppliers are expected to adhere to the external researchers can access the detailed representing patients, doctors and
strict codes of ethical conduct that anonymised patient-level data from our clinical
regulators have applauded GSK’s
trials. We also became the first company to
support these values.
See page 36 publish clinical study reports – formal reports decision, and we are looking to GSK to
Over the last six years we have evolved our on the design, methods and results of our trials. develop the strong leadership on
business model to better meet society’s
expectations. And we are leading the
Internal perspective See page 40 clinical trial reporting that is
industry in many areas – from increasing urgently needed across the industry”.
the transparency of clinical research “O ur commitment to transparency Working with healthcare professionals
to transforming the way we incentivise enables the broader scientific Began a process to end direct payments to Síle Lane,
The AllTrials campaign
our sales teams and engage with community to examine data more healthcare professionals for speaking
healthcare professions. engagements or attendance at medical
closely to conduct further research
conferences by 2016. Manufacturing and supply chain
Recent allegations of fraudulent behaviour that can help advance medical Began rolling out an anti-counterfeiting
in China have underlined the importance science or improve patient care. See page 43 programme that will provide unique
of our efforts. We are prepared to take serial numbers on 200 packaging lines
We also have a responsibility to
decisive action and change the way we across 25 manufacturing sites over the
operate if we are failing to meet the ensure that the vital contribution Sales and marketing next four years.
expectations of our stakeholders. made by people who participate Extended our ‘Patient First’ programme in our
200
US business to base sales team incentives on
in our trials is used to help further scientific knowledge and behaviours that
scientific understanding”. support ethical, patient-focused business
practices, instead of sales volumes.
James Shannon,
Chief Medical Officer, GSK
See page 44 See page 46Note to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 35
Putting patients first
in sales and marketing
We constantly challenge of patients come first. Our work with HCPs in a number doctor, nurse or other
ourselves on how we can new compensation scheme of ways, including on research prescriber, there is no
better meet the expectations will reward sales and that they conduct on our perception of a conflict of
of society. In 2013, we marketing professionals for behalf and by soliciting their interest. We remain
reinforced our commitment how well they use their expertise on GSK products or committed to continue our
to putting patients first by technical knowledge to therapy areas. support to HCPs, and these
announcing fundamental improve patient care and changes will help us do
In 2014, we began a two-
changes to our sales and GSK’s overall business so with transparency
year process to end the
marketing practices, and the performance. It is built on (see page 43).
practice of paying HCPs to
way we interact with our experience in the USA,
speak on our behalf, about
healthcare professionals. which has shown that such
our products or disease
an approach pays off
Instead of individual sales areas, to audiences who
through improved customer
targets, we will now prescribe or can influence
satisfaction (see page 44).
incentivise our sales and prescribing. This move is
marketing teams who detail We are also changing our designed to provide patients
our products to prescribers relationship with healthcare with greater confidence that
to ensure that the interests professionals (HCPs). We whenever they talk to aNote to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 36
Our values No matter where we operate in the world, in our interactions with patients,
prescribers, payers and governments, we must always live our values.
and principles
Making sure our people behave ethically We have aligned our performance and reward In this context we are concerned and
is critical to our reputation as a Our values systems with our values and introduced a new disappointed by allegations of fraudulent
responsible business and can impact performance system in 2014 that formally behaviour in our China business. We are
We put our values at the heart of every
our commercial success. evaluates employees on both ‘what’ they need to taking this matter extremely seriously and are
decision we make. These values are to:
do and ‘how’ they do it. Also for our most senior cooperating fully with the Chinese authorities.
Our 99,000-plus employees around the
• Operate with transparency people we dis-incentivise unethical working
world use our Code of Conduct as a unified We have taken a number of actions,
practices using a ‘clawback’ mechanism that
guide to the ‘GSK Spirit’ – a company • Demonstrate respect for people including also commissioning an
allows us to recover performance related pay.
culture that inspires a sense of individual independent report from international legal
• Act with integrity (see Our People, page 59).
responsibility and collective purpose. The firm Ropes and Gray, who have extensive
Code was revised in 2013 with simplified • Remain patient-focused Our annual business ethics certification experience in anti-corruption and
language and increased emphasis on our programme, Ethical Leadership Certification, international risk.
Values and Speak Up programme. requires designated managers to certify their
Living our values GSK is committed to learning any lessons
understanding of, and compliance with GSK’s
The Code has been translated into 27 In 2013, we focused on further integrating required as a result of the Chinese
values, policies and their responsibilities to
languages and provides a practical working a values-based culture across the company. investigation and will take any steps
lead and support an ethical work environment.
guide for employees on how to apply GSK We clarified expectations for employees necessary at its outcome. We remain fully
Failure to complete the certification by the
Values and Behaviours. It is supported by and leaders, simplified the more detailed committed to China, supporting the
specified deadline triggers a disciplinary
an online Values Resource Centre that policies that underpin the Code of Conduct Government’s healthcare reforms and to
follow-up from human resources.
provides tools and information to aid and promoted our Speak Up whistleblowing supplying our products to patients.
decision-making. mechanism to encourage employees to Bribery and corruption
report violations. GSK’s zero tolerance approach to bribery
We require suppliers and other business
and corruption is detailed in our Preventing
partners to comply with our high standards During 2013, we reviewed and enhanced
Corrupt Practices policy, which applies to
and expectations for ethical conduct, 28 corporate policies to ensure the policies
everyone at GSK as well as third parties
as set out in our Third Party Code of that support our Code of Conduct are
who act on behalf of the company. Our
Conduct. Employees and third parties can written in a way that employees find clear,
anti-bribery and corruption programme
report any concerns or violations of our concise and accessible. The aim is to
includes online and face-to-face training
Codes anonymously through our robust improve understanding of, and therefore
targeted at employees working in high-risk
‘Speak Up’ programme. enable greater compliance with, them.
roles. We conduct regular audits to support
the bribery and corruption programme, and
our performance is reviewed monthly by an
oversight committee. Suspected breaches
of our anti-corruption policies can be
reported anonymously without fear of
retaliation through whistleblowing channels
(see page 38).Note to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 37
Our values
and principles
continued
Medical governance Employee compliance with our scientific
GSK takes action following misrepresentation
Our medical governance framework ensures engagement policy is monitored as part of
of data in published research paper
we always apply good medical science, our global risk management and compliance
integrity and ethics to the discovery, framework, as well as through GSK’s
development and marketing of GSK Corporate Integrity Agreement in the USA. In 2013, we became aware of allegations of We are committed to the highest ethical
products. Overall responsibility for medical In 2013, we conducted 24 reviews – misrepresentation of data in a research and scientific standards, so that regulators,
governance sits with our Chief Medical including nine that focused on our paper written by Shanghai-based GSK physicians and patients can have
Officer, the most senior physician at publication process and how we engage scientists and published in Nature Medicine confidence in the research we carry out.
GSK, who is supported by the Medical with healthcare practitioners – to enhance in 20109. The published study was Following this investigation, GSK took
Governance Executive Committee. our processes and procedures, and ensure laboratory research only and did not involve appropriate action. Five R&D employees
We require our external partners to adhere that our interactions with physicians are giving an investigational drug to any who were among the named authors of the
to the same or similar medical governance appropriate and transparent. individuals. publication have left the company. We also
standards as GSK. established a broader scientific data review
Based on our principles for scientific The integrity of our research is critical to our team, overseen by an independent chair
Scientific engagement engagement, GSK has been encouraging work. In June 2013, we concluded an from outside GSK.
Our scientific engagement policy provides a shift in emphasis from branded, investigation of the published study and,
a set of global principles and standards that commercial spaces to more scientific regretfully, established that certain data were The team found no evidence that patient
guide us in distinguishing non-promotional booths at medical conferences, such as misrepresented. We shared our conclusion safety had been compromised and no reason
scientific dialogue with external stakeholders the European Respiratory Society (ERS) with Nature Medicine and recommended to stop or suspend any clinical research.
from promotional activity to support conference in 2013. a retraction. The paper has been retracted The team’s recommendations are being fully
approved products. For example, with the by Nature Medicine. As a precautionary implemented and will be embedded as
exception of public health campaigns Our scientific engagement area at the event measure, an early clinical study in which standard practice.
conducted in partnership with global public used interactive media to demonstrate our healthy volunteers were receiving an
organisations, we wait until a product is heritage, leadership and commitment to investigational drug targeting the same 9 “Crucial role of interleukin-7 in T helper type 17
granted marketing authorisation, by regional tackle respiratory diseases, and was staffed signalling pathway was also stopped. survival and expansion in autoimmune disease,”
by senior GSK medical staff, including published in Nature Medicine, 2010, 16: 191-197
or national regulatory agencies, before
heads of medicine from several countries
sponsoring or supporting any related
and scientific teams from across the
non-product or general disease area
business. We first trialled this approach at
education activities.
the ERS conference in 2012, and were very
These standards, which we have adopted pleased to note that others have followed.
voluntarily, set us apart from our peers, as
we have chosen to go beyond what is
required by codes of practice and legislation
to demonstrate our commitment to integrity
and transparency.Note to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 38
Our values
and principles
continued
Compliance Addressing misconduct As in 2012, the majority of employee Types of policy violation in 2013 (%)
Our Global Ethics and Compliance team We are committed to transparency and discipline in 2013 was due to our continued
provides tools, oversight and guidance to report annually on how we have addressed focus on ‘Attendance and payroll category’
12.3
improve compliance with external misconduct within our business. In 2013, violations (1,641 in 2013 and 1,456 in
3.7
regulations and internal policies. The team more than 1,800 contacts (1,600 in 2012) 2012). These attendance issues are mainly 3.0
5.4
works in partnership with the business to were made through our ethics and reported from our manufacturing business 55.4
5.7
promote decision-making that is based on compliance channels – a mixture of where we have implemented tighter controls
7.0
values and compliance. allegations of misconduct and requests to ensure we maintain and build on our
7.5
for information or guidance. strong track record of compliance. Other
In March 2013, we refreshed our employee
policy violations are thought to have been
campaign to raise awareness of GSK’s In 2013:
reported from our whistleblowing
whistleblowing programme. It encourages Attendance, payroll
• There were 3,128 instances of employee programme that raises awareness and Good manufacturing or distribution practice
and enables employees and third parties
encourages employees to report unethical Code of Conduct
discipline for policy violations (2,919
to report unethical or illegal conduct under or illegal conduct. Falsification of Documents
GSK’s Code of Conduct, other GSK
in 2012).
Marketing and promotional activities
policies or external legal standards. • Of these, 375 employees were dismissed Employees who remain with the company T Lora cv ae l l W an od rk E Rx ep ge un ls ae tions
Concerns can be raised through multiple following a policy violation receive retraining
or agreed to leave the company voluntarily Other
communication channels, including and increased monitoring or support. In
(312 in 2012).
telephone hotlines and an online form some cases retraining is extended to an
available in 38 languages. Line managers • Other disciplinary actions included 2,753 employee’s colleagues to prevent them from
and representatives from Global Ethics documented warnings (2,607 in 2012). making similar mistakes.
and Compliance group, Human Resources
• 161 of the policy violations related to Breaches of external codes
and Legal are also available to listen to,
violations of sales and marketing GSK was found to be in breach of external
or address concerns. We provide local
policies (123 in 2012). These resulted industry or government promotional codes
communicators with a toolkit of materials,
in 48 dismissals or separations and 36 times in 2013 compared with 25 in
available in 28 languages, to encourage
113 documented warnings. 2012. We investigate every breach of an
people to report concerns.
external code and take steps to prevent a
reoccurrence, which may include retraining
or other corrective action, including
disciplinary action.Note to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 39
Our values
and principles
continued
Human rights As a result, we are focusing on better Privacy and data security
understanding human rights risks in GSK’s As a global organisation, GSK collects,
Commitment supply chain and how we can address uses, and maintains a vast amount of
these, as well as further embedding global personal information on our employees,
Address the UN Guiding Principles on Business and
standards on diversity, equality and people who participate in our research,
Human Rights across our own operations and our
supplier relationships. inclusion at a country level. We have also and the healthcare professionals with whom
updated our human rights statement based we partner. We are committed to protecting
GSK is a signatory to the UN Global on the findings of our assessment. this data, and require all employees and
Compact, a voluntary global standard on suppliers to comply with our global privacy
human rights, labour, the environment and Activities in embargoed countries principles, which ensure that all personal
anti-corruption. We support the UN Guiding Some stakeholders have concerns about data are collected, used, processed,
Principles on Business and Human Rights how businesses operate in countries transferred and stored appropriately,
and are committed to upholding the UN targeted by sanctions laws, such as Cuba, securely, and in line with legal requirements.
Universal Declaration of Human Rights, North Korea, Iran, Sudan and Syria.
the OECD Guidelines for Multinational We share the UN’s belief that people In June 2013, the UK Information
Enterprises and the core labour standards set should not be denied access to medicines Commissioner’s Office approved GSK’s
out by the International Labour Organization. because of the regime operating in their Binding Corporate Rules (BCRs), a set
country. We aim to supply medicines and of legally binding global policies, based
In 2013, as part of our support for the UN vaccines in all countries that need and on European Union laws, that ensure
Guiding Principles, we worked with BSR, wish to purchase them, including essential compliance with cross-border transfer
a non-profit external consultancy with medicines in sanctioned countries, in requirements for research and employee
expertise in business and human rights, compliance with applicable sanctions and personal information. BCRs make it
to undertake a systematic assessment to export controls. We also comply with the possible to transfer personal data
identify GSK’s human rights impacts. Based disclosure requirements of the Iran Threat internationally between GSK entities without
on this assessment, we prioritised seven Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act individual privacy agreements in every
areas to further examine GSK’s policies and of 2012. European Union country. However, data
process, and their potential to positively or transfers under the BCRs also need
negatively impact human rights. These are: to be authorised by each European country,
access to healthcare; global warming impact and in 2014 GSK will continue progressing
of propellants used in some inhalers; clinical the BCR national authorisations from
trial standards; employment practices; each country.
patient safety; product counterfeiting;
and use of third party suppliers. To increase our focus on information security,
GSK established an Office of the Chief
Information Security Officer to provide
strategy, direction and oversight, while building
GSK’s global information security capabilities.Note to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 40
Research We ensure that our research practices meet the highest ethical standards and
make patient safety our priority at all stages, wherever we operate.
practices
Clinical research • 34 audits of contract research
Research is essential to create the next organisations that carry out clinical
generation of medicines to combat unmet trials on our behalf.
medical needs and improve existing treatments.
• 13 audits of GSK local operating
We conduct clinical trials on patients and
companies involved in clinical
healthy volunteers to evaluate the safety and
trial activities.
efficacy of new medicines or develop innovative
applications of known treatments. • 2 reviews of New Drug Application (NDA)
Annual Reports.10
We conduct trials in accordance with
the International Conference on
In addition, we conducted 51 investigations
Harmonisation’s Good Clinical Practice
of suspected irregularities and took corrective
guidelines. All trial protocols are reviewed
action where appropriate. Independent
by an independent ethics committee –
regulatory authorities also performed 112
made up of members of the public, medical Providing access to trial data to benefit medical science and patient care
inspections of GSK sites and the investigators
professionals and scientists – which has
we used to conduct clinical trials.
the power to reject or stop a clinical trial. In 2013, GSK became the first company Researchers requesting access to the
Transparency of clinical research to launch an online system enabling data must show how they will use it to
Employees must complete training on Good
external researchers to request access further research and commit to publishing
Clinical Practice (GCP) before undertaking
Commitment to the detailed data that sit behind its their findings, with an independent panel
any roles related to GSK-sponsored clinical
clinical trial results. of experts reviewing proposals to ensure
research. In 2013, employees completed Be as transparent as possible with our clinical trial
the proposed research is appropriate.
data, including publishing clinical study reports (without
44,685 GCP-related courses either online Described as a ‘sea change in clinical
patient-level data) for all outcome trials of medicines
or in person. To confirm that the conduct conducted by GSK and, within an appropriate process, science’,11 this commitment enables The GSK system was launched as a first
of trials is in line with our standards, we making available to researchers access to anonymised researchers to examine data more closely step and we are working with others in
conduct audits of our trial sites and of patient level data to further scientific enquiry. to conduct further research that can help industry, and the public and charitable
contract organisations that carry out trials advance medical science or improve patient sector, to encourage the development
Sharing the results of our research is vital to
on our behalf. care. External researchers can submit of a broader, independent system where
GSK as it helps to ensure that the important
research proposals and request access to data from studies conducted by multiple
In 2013, we conducted 323 clinical quality contribution made by people participating in
anonymised patient level data from all studies organisations are made available for further
assurance assessments to confirm that trials is used to maximum effect in furthering
started from 2013 once the medicine has research. In January 2014, we took an
the conduct of trials reflects our scientific knowledge and understanding.
been approved by regulators or terminated important step on this path and transferred
standards, including: In 2013, we built on our longstanding
from development. We will regularly update to a new multi-sponsor request site,
commitment to clinical trial transparency by
• 254 audits of investigator sites being the first company to introduce a new this list to include all global studies since clinicalstudydatarequest.com, which
conducting GSK-sponsored trials. system that enables researchers to access 2000. By the end of 2013, approximately includes studies from multiple organisations.
450 studies were made available.
• 20 audits of GSK processes. Researchers are also able to ask about the
10 New Drug Application reports are submitted to the US availability of data from other studies.
Food and Drug Administration to provide an update on the 11 Nature online news article
status of each study completed or in progress.Note to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 41
Research
practices
continued
detailed anonymised patient-level data from the same fundamental ethical principles, GSK’s Global Safety Board, chaired by Animal research
trials (see case study) and expanding the regardless of where they take place. our Chief Medical Officer and composed
information made publicly available on our of senior physicians and scientists, Commitment
We only conduct clinical trials in countries
clinical study register. makes decisions on product safety issues.
where the medicines are likely to be suitable Rigorously challenge the need for animal studies and
Its remit is to ensure that safety is a key
The register, which receives on average for the wider community. GSK does not work to minimise the impact on animal welfare, by
focus for our research teams and to review investing in the development of alternative studies and
over 14,000 visits each month, now conduct clinical trials of investigational
benefit/risk evaluations of GSK products sharing animal-based data.
includes over 5,400 summaries of trial medicines in a country if it is known at the
in development and on the market.
results, which are posted regardless of outset that there is no intent to pursue We recognise that animal research is a
We also have an internal risk advisory
whether the outcomes might be considered registration to make the medicine available subject of ethical concern. We use
panel to encourage sharing of information
to be positive or negative. In 2013, we for use in that country. alternatives to animals whenever we can
and best practices within the company.
expanded this to include Clinical Study and we aim to carry out studies with the
Patient safety
Reports (CSRs) – formal study reports on Pharmacovigilance fewest animals possible. However, animal
the design, methods and results of clinical Pharmacovigilance relates to the detection, studies remain a vital part of our research
trials which form the basis of submissions Commitment monitoring, assessment, understanding and as, in many cases, this is the only way to
to regulatory agencies. prevention of adverse effects or any other demonstrate the effects of a potential new
Continue to ensure the interests and safety of patients
and consumers are of paramount importance in the way drug related problems.12 GSK collaborates medicine in a living body before it is tested
GSK was the first company to publish we design and undertake our clinical trials, our product with industry peers, regulators, healthcare in humans. Regulations require us to test
CSRs and these are available, with personal quality assurance and our monitoring and reporting of
providers, patients and other interested the safety of all new medicines on animals
information removed, once the trial has been adverse events in ongoing product usage.
parties to continually enhance the science before they are evaluated in clinical trials.
published and the medicines have been
Patient safety is a fundamental priority at of pharmacovigilance, and improve
approved or terminated from development. Where we need to use animals in our
GSK. All medicines have potential risks communication about our medicines.
We are committed to publishing CSRs research, we are committed to acting
as well as benefits, and it is critical that As part of our efforts to improve the
for all current trials and for all approved ethically, and providing for their health and
we identify, evaluate and minimise safety pharmocovigilance process, our research
medicines dating back to the formation well-being. Our Office of Animal Welfare,
concerns to ensure the overall benefits teams perform benefit/risk evaluations
of GSK in 2000, starting with the most Ethics and Strategy – led by our Chief of
of a medicine outweigh any risks. through the life cycle of all medicines, and
commonly prescribed medicines. We also Veterinary Medicine – develops policies and
the results are presented to our Global
support the AllTrials campaign, which calls Our robust policies and governance oversees the humane and responsible use
Safety Board. In 2013, we created a new
for full reporting of methods and results framework help us detect and act on any of animals across GSK. In 2013, we created
team to enhance our pharmacovigilance
of all trials. side effects that may be associated with our a new system to establish global quality
operating model.
medicines. We also apply computerised standards for training. This will facilitate
Clinical trials in developing countries statistical tools to analyse safety information 12 As defined by the World Health Organization sharing of best practices for improving
As more clinical trials take place in
by, for example, identifying any unexpected animal welfare.
developing countries, legitimate concerns
adverse events (side effects) being reported
have been raised about running trials in
on a disproportionate basis. We are
countries where health services may not
committed to continually evaluate and
be as well developed. All GSK-sponsored
communicate transparently with patients,
clinical trials are conducted according to
prescribers, payers and regulators about
the benefits and risks of our medicines.Note to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 42
Research
practices
continued
Studies conducted by external contractors • Reducing the number of animals used Performance in 2013 Most animals in our research – including
on our behalf are subject to the same high in research: We have reduced the In 2013, the number of animals used in our research carried out by contractors – are
standards as those carried out within number of animals in genetic toxicology research declined by 10% and was 33% lower mice. Non-rodents account for less than
GSK facilities. Over the past five years, testing of pharmaceutical ingredients by than in 2000, despite the two main drivers of 2% of the number of animals used.
our animal quality assurance group has 75%, by supporting the redevelopment of animal use (R&D investment and vaccine Less than 0.3% of the animals we use
assessed the care and welfare programmes international guidelines that now enable sales) increasing over the same period. are non-human primates.
of more than 600 contractor and supplier us to integrate this testing into rodent
Percentage change in animal use
organisations. The vast majority met our studies that are already being conducted
compared to key drivers of animal use
standards on animal welfare or implemented on other aspects of safety. This type of
our recommendations for improvement. integrated study helps to reduce animal %
300
In cases where contractors fail to adopt our use and improve scientific data.
recommendations or show no commitment
• Refining techniques to minimise pain 200
to continuous improvement following a site
and distress and improve the welfare of
visit, we stop working with them.
animals: Every species has certain defining 100
The 3Rs behaviours. Understanding and encouraging
Our approach to animal research is based these ‘behavioural standards’ helps us 0
on the 3Rs: promote the welfare of each species 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
during research studies. In 2013, we
• Replacing animal research with other
established a set of behaviour standards Animal used within GSK facilities
methods where possible: Scientists in for mice – including nest building, Animals used by contractors on behalf of GSK
our safety pharmacology group, for R&D investment plus vaccine sales
exploration and exercise, the opportunity
example, have developed a test that uses
to interact with or hide from others, and Figures are normalised to 2000, the first year of data after the formation
heart tissue developed from adult human the opportunity to gnaw – and we are of GlaxoSmithKline. Data includes animal research conducted by external
stem cells (iPSC) to measure the effect of contractors on our behalf, data unavailable for 2000 and 2001.
now working to do so for other species.
compounds on the electrical activity of the
Species used in GSK animal research 2013 (%)
heart. This test allows us to identify and We publish our results in scientific journals
0.810.03
discard compounds with a potential to and engage with other scientists and
6.2
induce fatal arrhythmias in patients early regulatory authorities to influence broader
in development. It replaces the animals industry standards, share best practices 12.5
tests traditionally used to identify this and learn from others. In 2013, we
liability. sponsored experimental design workshops,
where over 300 GSK animal researchers in
the UK and USA considered how we could 79.2
reduce the number of animals used in
research by changing the way we design
Mouse
our experiments.
Rat
Guinea pig
Rabbit
OtherNote to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 43
Working with healthcare New measures announced in 2013 will transform the way we work with
healthcare professionals.
professionals
Transparency
Commitment GSK is committed to publishing the payments
we do make to HCPs and HCOs. We already
Continue to drive a values-based approach to sales and
do so in several countries including Australia,
marketing practices across the world, with the interests
of consumers and patients at its core. France, Netherlands, Portugal, Slovakia,
Japan, the UK and the USA, in line with locally
Payments to HCPs agreed government or industry association
At the end of 2013, we announced a standards. GSK will continue to disclose the
two-year process that will change how we payments we make for clinical research
work with HCPs – becoming the first in the advisory activities and market research in
sector to move towards ending the practice these countries. We will continue to support
of paying doctors to speak on our behalf and work towards transparency in other
and providing direct financial support for countries as industry associations or
individuals to attend medical conferences. governments establish specific guidelines for
disclosure, for example, through the EFPIA
Starting in 2014, we will phase out the
code on payments.
practice of paying HCPs to speak on our
behalf, about our products or disease areas, We also continue to work towards
to audiences who can prescribe or influence publishing global figures at an aggregate
prescribing. We will work to implement level for the payments to HCPs that will
these changes effectively in line with local continue, such as advisory activities and
laws and regulations across our global clinical research.
business by the start of 2016.
We still have an important role to play in We will continue to offer appropriate fees These changes are designed to modernise
supporting education for HCPs and in to HCPs providing services for GSK- our relationship with healthcare professionals
providing accurate information about our sponsored clinical research, advisory and bring greater clarity and confidence that
medicines to help them make the best activities and market research. These whenever we talk to a doctor, nurse or other
treatment decision for their patients. We will activities are essential to provide GSK with prescriber, it is patients’ interests that always
strengthen our dedicated medical and insights on specific diseases, identification come first. We understand that while we have
scientific capability to appropriately engage of symptoms and diagnosis, application of an important role to play in providing doctors
with HCPs and improve our multi-channel clinical trial data or medication dosage and with information about our medicines, we are
capabilities, including use of digital administration, and on how to effectively expected to do so clearly, transparently and
technologies, to provide appropriate and appropriately communicate the benefits without any perception of conflict of interest.
information on products and disease areas and risks of its medicines to help meet
conveniently to HCPs. We will also support patient needs.
fair, balanced and objective medical
education for HCPs through provision of
independent educational grants.Note to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 44
Sales and Our mandate as a pharmaceutical company is to put the needs of patients and
customers first. We are putting this focus on the patient, one of our core values,
marketing
at the heart of our sales and marketing approach.
Experiences in the last two years in the
Commitment USA suggest that this more patient-focused Putting the patient first
approach has significantly improved both
Continue to drive a values-based approach to sales and
marketing practices across the world, with the interests customer interactions and satisfaction rates Is it possible for a pharmaceutical By incentivising our sales teams to be
of consumers and patients at its core. with GSK’s US pharmaceutical business. company to improve sales by asking its more knowledgeable than ever before,
sales teams to stop focusing on how much we have raised the bar for GSK and
Our global Code of Practice for Promotion Direct-to-consumer marketing of
they sell, and start focusing on how they the industry.
and Customer Interactions ensures that prescription medicines
sell it? We believe it is.
GSK’s scientific engagement with external We advertise our prescription medicines “We listen to the customers, figure out
communities and the marketing of our directly to consumers in New Zealand and Our sales representatives have lots of how we can address their needs, and then
products are driven by our values. The code the USA. Direct-to-consumer (DTC) stories about how our ‘Patient First’ we bring in the right GSK resources to
applies to all sales and marketing employees advertising of prescription medicines is not philosophy has changed their conversations help improve patient care,” says Jacqueline
as well as third parties acting on our behalf. permitted in other markets. with customers, and helped establish trust Carsanaro, VP of our Medical Centre
It requires all promotions to be accurate, in the company. And customer satisfaction Sales team who serve hospitals and
All DTC advertising in the USA is governed
and all promotional activity to be clearly surveys have shown that we have indeed clinics. High satisfaction ratings from
by our DTC Communications policy, based
identified as such. outperformed both our best competitor, and customers increased by 6% in 2013, as
on the PhRMA Guiding Principles:
the competitor average, on delivering value a result of the team’s exceptional work
GSK led the industry as the first Direct to Consumer Advertisements about
to our customers. to deliver customer-focused solutions.
pharmaceutical company to decouple reward Prescription Medicines. All our DTC
for our US sales representatives from the advertising in the USA is reviewed by legal,
number of prescriptions issued, focusing regulatory or medical specialists and new
instead on demonstration of our values DTC television advertisements are
and focus on the patient (see case study). submitted to the US Food and Drug
Administration (FDA) for review and
In 2014, we will begin to roll out this comment prior to broadcast. Again, in 2013,
approach on a global basis and implement our US Pharmaceutical business did not
a new global compensation programme receive any Notice of Violation or Warning
that will have no individual sales targets. Letters from the FDA for advertising or
Instead, GSK’s sales professionals who promotion of products.
work directly with prescribing healthcare
professionals will be evaluated and
rewarded for their technical knowledge, the
quality of the service they deliver to support
improved patient care and the overall
performance of GSK’s business. This new
compensation system is being rolled out in
a phased approach across EMAP, Japan
and Europe, with the intent that all countries
GSK operates in within these areas will
move to this approach by January 2015.Note to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 45
Manufacturing Efficient and responsible manufacturing and supply is critical to enable
us to get high-quality products to patients and consumers in the right place
and supply
at the right time.
of zero accidents, zero defects and zero Our audit teams around the world manage Supplier EHS audits 2009-2013
Commitment waste, and we are significantly expanding and regularly assess the quality (existing and potential suppliers)
our dedicated quality teams around the performance of over 6,000 suppliers of 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009
Continue to ensure the interests and safety of patients
and consumers are of paramount importance in the way world to reinforce our commitment to deliver materials, active pharmaceutical ingredients Americas 2 3 4 5 11
we design and undertake our clinical trials, our product high-quality products to patients and and finished products. More than 100 key Europe 5 0 7 5 13
quality assurance and our monitoring and reporting of consumers. Across our manufacturing suppliers have been assessed using the Asia 26 10 38 29 46
adverse events in ongoing product usage.
network we invested around £40 million GMS Quality Risk Model, specifically Africa 0 0 0 0 0
A holistic approach in 2013 to reduce environmental impacts. created for this purpose. We also conduct Total number
Many of these improvements are bringing audits of suppliers specifically on ethical, of audits 32* 13 49 39 70
Each year we produce four billion packs
additional business benefits by, for example, environmental, health and safety (EHS),
of medicine and consumer healthcare Number and types of supplier audited on EHS in
improving efficiency and increasing governance and risk management. We
products and 900 million doses of vaccines, 2013 (existing and potential suppliers)
manufacturing capacity. assess all our suppliers on first selection
and supply these to 170 countries. Our
and subsequently, also audit on high risk Type of supplier Americas Europe Asia Total
suppliers are integral to this process, and
We are also working on sustainability
we expect them to uphold the same high areas. On completion of every audit, we Primary (raw materials,
programmes with our suppliers. In 2013, agree an improvement plan with suppliers intermediates and
standards we set for ourselves. we asked more than 500 of our largest pharmaceutical ingredients) 0 2 17 19
to address any areas of concern and verify
materials suppliers in our highest spend Contract manufacturing
Each year we spend around £9 billion these plans are implemented satisfactorily. (pharmaceutical
on goods and services with 1,000 categories to disclose their sustainability Where significant gaps are identified, we formulations) 1 3 0 4
manufacturers accounting for 80% of footprint (carbon, water, waste and energy may suspend or terminate our work with Consumer Healthcare 1 0 9 10
use) to identify priority areas for
our spend. The ingredients and materials a supplier, or decide not to work with a * Each supplier audit is counted as a single audit, even
we buy feed into our network of 86 GSK improvement across the supply chain. potential new supplier. where multiple sites/locations are included
manufacturing sites in 36 countries. Supplier standards As part of our work to assess and manage
We have increased resources to provide
Around 10% of our external spend is with Our Third Party Code of Conduct commits GSK’s impacts on human rights (see
more extensive EHS risk-based auditing
suppliers who provide us with finished or our network of approved external suppliers page 39), we are working to standardise
across the supply base, including external
part-finished products. and business partners to uphold GSK’s our approach to procurement across
suppliers and third party distributors. In
values. It sets out standards on ethical geographies and business units, and
We are moving to an ‘end-to-end’ supply 2013, we conducted 32 internal EHS audits
conduct, anti-bribery, fair labour (including to simplify our existing controls to more
chain model for our pharmaceutical, vaccine involving site visits to supplier facilities. We
protection of human rights), environment, effectively identify and manage human
and consumer healthcare products that will also commissioned a specialist insurance
health and safety management, and quality rights risks in our supply chain.
standardise and improve our controls company to review risks to supply. GSK is
control. Suspected breaches can be
across our entire supply chain and also a member of the Pharmaceutical Supply
reported through our Speak Up programme,
manufacturing operations – from procuring Chain Initiative (PSCI), through which we
which is open to third parties (see page 36).
raw materials, through quality controls, to collaborate with other pharmaceutical
packaging, and the transport and logistics companies to audit suppliers on their human
Risks to the supply chain are integrated
involved in delivering products to our rights and labour practices as well as their
into our overall risk management and
customers. As part of this transition, across EHS performance. In 2013, PSCI audited
compliance process.
our network of pharmaceutical and six suppliers relevant to the GSK supply
consumer healthcare manufacturing sites, chain.
we are driving progress towards our visionNote to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 46
Manufacturing
and supply
continued
Payment terms Anti-counterfeiting Our comprehensive global anti-counterfeiting We work closely with law enforcement and
We greatly value the relationships we have With no global study on the issue, it is strategy combines the use of technology, regulatory agencies to combat counterfeiters.
with our many suppliers and understand the difficult to quantify the prevalence of analysis, investigations, appropriate legal During 2013, there were significant seizures
pressures on cash flow and financing faced counterfeit drugs. But there is little doubt enforcement action, and interactions with as a result of such cooperation. In China, for
by smaller companies. Following a change that the problem is widespread, and poses law enforcement and customs. Counterfeits example, authorities conducted raids at six
to our standard payment terms for suppliers a serious threat to patient and consumer of GSK products are discovered through counterfeiting factories which resulted in
in the UK and USA in 2012, we offered health, as well as a business threat to GSK consumer and patient complaints, 19 convictions for counterfeiting of a variety
to review these payment terms for smaller and other pharmaceutical companies. investigations, and raids conducted by law of medicines, including Contac NT, a cold
suppliers identified as micro, small and enforcement and regulatory agencies as treatment, and Fenbid, a pain reliever. In
Counterfeit drugs can range from precise
medium size enterprises in Europe or diverse well as investigators acting on behalf of GSK. Pakistan, three counterfeiters were arrested
replicas of the original product to products
suppliers in the USA. We also offer a range Our analysis has shown that the most and a large quantity of counterfeit Ventolin
with no legitimate active ingredients. They
of supply chain finance options to both our counterfeited GSK products include our Syrup (used for treating asthma) was seized
are not supported by any appropriate quality
UK and US suppliers. Sensodyne and Aquafresh toothpastes, and during a raid by the Pakistan Provincial
control, testing or monitoring, and may
medicines such as Panadol, Dolex, Drug Authorities.
Several companies have taken up these include impurities, such as particulates or
Augmentin and Ventolin.
opportunities already and we are planning micro-organisms. For patients consuming There has been an increase in the number of
increased communications, as well as a these counterfeits, the risks range from lack We have introduced a range of anti- reported counterfeit incidents in 2013 when
dedicated small business hotline, to make of treatment or protection, to actual harm counterfeiting measures such as product compared with previous years, which can be
more of our smaller suppliers aware of the caused by the product. codes that can be used by consumers in Africa accounted for by an increase in successful
support available. to verify authenticity via a simple text message. raid actions in Pakistan, and seizures and
discoveries of counterfeit Grandpa,
In China, where the largest volumes of
a headache powder, in South Africa.
counterfeits are manufactured, we include
Supplier diversity
a unique serial number on each product
package of all products on the Essential
Diversity within our workforce and among We engage with a global network of diverse Drug List, to enable electronic monitoring for
our suppliers supports the continuous suppliers by participating in relevant the purpose of patient safety. We are looking
innovation that our business is built on conferences and through initiatives such to extend this to additional products in a
exposing us to new perspectives and fresh as the US National Minority Supplier programme running over the next four years.
ideas. Sourcing from under-represented Development Council’s Global Link initiative
groups, such as small businesses, women and Minority Supplier Diversity UK (of which
and minorities, also supports economic GSK is a board member), an organisation GSK anti-counterfeiting activity
development and is a regulatory requirement that develops links between global 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
in the USA. In 2013, 12% of our total US businesses and ethnic minority businesses.
expenditure was with diverse small
Number of reported
businesses, a 2% increase from 2012.
cases of counterfeit 494 354 378 367 259 289 429 248
Number of raids 307 208 148 96 94 94 71 57
Number of arrests 272 124 181 132 129 84 127 94Note to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 47
Public policy and We contribute to the debate on global health challenges and other issues
by advocating for a policy environment that protects the interest of patients
patient advocacy
around the world, while supporting our business.
• Calling on G8 governments to • Partnering with European governments to Lobbying expenditure
Commitment acknowledge the potential for greater help reduce the impact of fiscal austerity In 2013, costs associated with lobbying
information exchange and data measures on continued patient access of EU institutions were in the range of
Demonstrate that all GSK interactions with patient
transparency among tax authorities to life-saving GSK medicines. €600,000 to €650,000 as outlined in the
advocacy groups and political stakeholders are
conducted appropriately, ethically and transparently. in demonstrating the effectiveness European Transparency Register. This figure
• Working with governments to increase
of national and international tax rules. includes running the Brussels advocacy
We are committed to ensuring that all our coordination, simplify pharmaceutical office, salaries, external events, travel and
interactions with political stakeholders and • Working with US policymakers on the registration and improve the registration accommodation, consulting costs and
patient advocacy groups are conducted implementation of the Affordable Care Act processes in China, Russia, Taiwan and educational materials. It also takes into
appropriately, ethically and transparently. to support the provision of medicines and Ukraine, to address the challenge of account the proportion of employee time
In 2012 we reviewed and published the vaccines through the new federal and regional disparity in access to medicines. spent on representing GSK’s interests to
criteria we use to work with public policy state-run Health Insurance Marketplaces, EU institutions. It excludes trade association
Trade association membership
groups. In 2013, we assessed our and the Medicaid insurance programmes membership fees.
GSK is a member of many trade and industry
memberships against these renewed criteria for low-income Americans. Additionally,
associations that primarily represent
and as a result we withdrew from the we launched a new collaborative platform, In the USA, we spent $3,720,000 on federal
pharmaceutical, consumer product and
American Legislative Exchange Council Healthy Communities for a Healthy lobbying activities in 2013 (see the US federal
vaccine businesses at the national, regional
(ALEC). We remain committed to working America, to identify and advocate for lobbying register). This includes the costs
and international levels. Membership in
with public policy groups aligned to our solutions that promote collaboration, of salaries and benefits for all employees
these groups can support the efficiency
values and priorities. We have also agreed improve access to high quality healthcare, registered to lobby the US Government,
and effectiveness of our public policy work.
new Standard Operating Procedures that and advance innovation. This includes the use of lobbying consultants, support for
See our website for a full list.
govern our work with public policy groups ‘patient-centred medical homes’ and lobbying contacts such as planning activities
and we will train employees on these in 2014. comprehensive medication management Political contributions and research, running the GSK Washington
coordinated care models to improve the DC government affairs office, support staff,
We do not make corporate political
Key public policy engagements during quality of care for patients, and reduce and the portion of trade association fees
contributions.
2013 included: overall healthcare costs. associated with federal lobbying.
Employee PACs
• Supporting immunisation programmes • Partnering with the US Department of
Some of our US employees choose to make
around the world, such as our partnership Health and Human Services, the
personal political contributions through the
with GAVI Alliance, working with partners Biomedical Advanced Research and
GSK employee Political Action Committee
such as the Innovative Medicines Initiative Development Authority, and Texas A&M
(PAC), which allows eligible employees to
to address related R&D, manufacturing University, to open an influenza vaccines
provide financial support to political groups,
and access challenges, and exploring new manufacturing facility in an unprecedented
in accordance with the Federal Election
financing mechanisms for vaccination. public health collaboration to ensure a
Campaign Act. In 2013, the GSK employees’
rapid national vaccine response in the
• Working with governments and other PAC contributed $484,810 with 60%
event of an influenza pandemic.
stakeholders, primarily from Europe and to Republican candidates and 40% to
the USA, to address the growing threat Democratic candidates running for state
of antimicrobial resistance (see page 18) and federal offices.
by encouraging greater investment in
R&D, and supporting activities that
promote appropriate use of antibacterials.Note to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 48
Public policy and
patient advocacy
continued
Patient advocacy For example: The European Patient Advocacy Health We also facilitated PALS in Germany, Japan
We engage with patient groups – non-profit Advisory Board (HAB) is made up of and Romania. Since 2002, more than 7,000
• As a member of the European Patients’
organisations founded by patients, care-givers, 13 European patient groups and is an patient advocates from over 55 countries
Academy on Therapeutic Innovation, we are
family members and health professionals – opportunity for GSK employees to gain have participated in PALS events around
contributing expertise, staff time and funding
to help improve our understanding of patient patient group insight on our policies and the world.
to develop in-depth training courses and
needs and illnesses. Patient groups engage initiatives. It brings the voice of the patient into
support qualitative research to help patients
with healthcare providers, governments, the the heart of the organisation and helps us Read more online
in 12 European countries become more
media and patients to promote improved understand how we can meet patient needs.
effective advocates during the research
treatment and healthcare services. They also In 2013, topics we covered included our work We publish more detail online on key
campaign on issues that affect patients’ and and development of new medicines. on antibiotics, adaptive licensing, clinical data issues including:
care-givers’ lives. Some carry out research into • Working with the National Coalition of transparency, our plans for working with • GSK Anti-Bribery and Corruption
the causes of, and potential treatments for Patients with Chronic Diseases and other patient groups in the Emerging Markets Asia Handbook
specific conditions. Pacific region and our partnership with Save
pharmaceutical companies to organise • GSK Anti-Bribery and Corruption
the Children (see page 15).
the National Forum of Patient Associations Guidelines for Third Parties
Our relationship with patient groups
guides our R&D and helps to ensure that in Romania. The activity included a All GSK employees and relevant third • Cloning technologies and stem
patient opinions are heard (see page 17). national information campaign for patients, parties who work with patient groups must cell research
roundtables with doctors, and the launch
We recognise that some stakeholders want follow our guidelines and Standard • Disclosure of clinical trial information
of a telephone helpline for patients to
to understand the nature of our support for Operating Procedures. For example,
get information on their rights and • The care, welfare and treatment of animals
patient groups. We publish information we limit the amount of funding we can
online on all our work with patient groups in disease-related questions. provide to 25% of a patient group’s overall • The role of transgenic animals in
biomedical research
Europe, Asia Pacific and Emerging Markets, • In Iowa, USA, we are collaborating with the funding, and require that relationships with
as well as information on our support for patient groups must never be linked to • Use of Non-human Primates (NHPs)
Partnership for Better Health – a network
patient groups working globally, including promotion of our products. in the Discovery and Development
of healthcare providers, advocates and
details of the funding received. We publish of Medicines and Vaccines
consumers dedicated to lowering the cost
Patient Advocacy Leaders Summits
information online on all our work (including of care through prevention, access and • Counterfeiting of healthcare products
Our Patient Advocacy Leaders Summits
funding details) with patient groups in
innovation through collaboration. This helps • Pharmacovigilance
(PALS) have been uniting patient advocates
Europe, US, Canada, Australia, Asia Pacific
educate policymakers and the public about
for more than ten years across different • Criteria for working with public
and Emerging Markets.
the need to invest in preventing chronic therapeutic areas to discuss health policy, policy groups
diseases affecting the USA, including
We provide funding to patient groups in develop new skills and explore ways to • Global Code of Practice for Promotion
diabetes, heart disease and lung disease.
the form of unrestricted grants to support expand their influence. In the USA, in 2013, and Customer Interactions
the day-to-day running of the organisation, • Through our ‘Uniting a Community’ initiative, a national PALS event in Washington, D.C. • Code of Conduct
corporate partners fees and defined and six regional PALS across the country
which originated from the Patient Advocacy
• Clinical trials in the developing world
projects. Our support also includes the focused on the patient advocate’s role in
Leaders Summits, we focus on healthy
development of educational materials, implementing healthcare reform, the
ageing and cancer.
training for staff, and collaboration on implications of different Health Insurance
disease awareness and prevention projects. Marketplaces, as well as the issue of
Medicaid expansion in the states.Note to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 49
Our approach
to tax
Businesses are increasingly being activities are located in the UK, where we Transparency with Tax Authorities Tax Havens
challenged to ensure they contribute through are currently increasing our investment. In GSK supports calls for multinationals to We do not engage in artificial tax
the tax system to the societies in which they addition to corporation tax on the profits provide greater transparency to Tax arrangements – those without business
operate, and to provide information on their generated, the employment and value that Authorities. During 2013 we participated or commercial substance – and our policy
tax management principles and policies. these activities create are subject to a in consultations on the proposed Country is to use locations only where we have
number of other UK taxes, including indirect by Country Reporting Disclosure to Tax substantial business presence. We have a
We understand our responsibility to pay
tax and employment taxes. Authorities, which was announced in the substantial local business presence in the
an appropriate amount of tax. At the same
Organisation for Economic Co-operation vast majority of the territories where we
time we have a responsibility to our We’ve continued our programme of
and Development’s (OECD) Base Erosion operate whether through business offices,
shareholders to be financially efficient and centralising Pharmaceutical intellectual
and Profit Shifting Action Plan in July. sales force, manufacturing, R&D facilities
deliver a sustainable tax rate. We fully property and product inventory ownership
or local distribution of our products, all of
support efforts to ensure companies are into the UK, which was started in 2012. The International tax framework
which contribute to economic development
appropriately transparent about how their change to our IP ownership structure is As a multinational business we believe we
and create shared value for the region and
tax affairs are managed. made possible by the introduction of new should contribute to the debate regarding
our business.
‘patent box’ tax rules by the UK Government global tax policy, and in particular the
Our contribution: we have a substantial
which came into force in 2013, making the current debate on whether the existing Internal processes
business and employment presence in many
UK a more attractive place to locate IP and international tax law framework, which is set We have robust internal policies, processes,
countries around the globe and we pay
investment. Our decision to centralise IP by the OECD, is fit for purposes in today’s training and compliance programmes
a significant amount of tax, including
and fund more R&D from the UK means that environment. GSK supports the work that to ensure we have alignment across our
corporation and other business taxes, as
over the medium term we expect to pay the OECD has commissioned, supported business and meet our tax obligations.
well as tax associated with our employees.
more corporation tax in the UK, as more of by the G8, in its Base Erosion and Profit Our Audit and Risk Committee, and the
For example, since the formation of GSK
the value we generate from sales of our Shifting paper, and is committed to Board, are responsible for approving our
we have paid more than £24 billion in
pipeline products will have been created in providing relevant business input. tax strategy and management.
corporation tax globally.
the UK and be subject to UK tax.
Transfer pricing15 14 This is an agreement between a tax payer and a tax
In 2013, our global corporation tax charge authority on an appropriate transfer pricing methodology
Relationship with tax authorities In line with current OECD guidelines we
on core profits was approximately for certain transactions over a fixed period of time.
GSK seeks to maintain open, positive base our transfer pricing policy on the arm’s
£1.7 billion equating to a Group tax rate on relationships with governments and tax length principle and support our transfer 15 An underlying principle of transfer pricing is that even
profits of 23%. This means that the corporate though two companies are within the same group,
authorities worldwide and we welcome prices with economic analysis and reports. they have to act as if they were independent enterprises.
tax due on our core profits around the world
constructive debate on taxation policy. In 2012, The worldwide nature of our operations This means that companies must be appropriately
amounted to nearly one quarter of the total rewarded for the assets they employ, and the risks they
we entered into a bilateral Advance Pricing means that our R&D and manufacturing
core profit we made during the year. Further assume, when entering into intra-group transactions,
Agreement with the IRS and HMRC14 and in operations are centred in a number of key to ensure profits generated are taxed in the countries
details about our corporate tax charges for 2013 we have started bilateral discussions locations. A consequence of this is that our where the value arises. An appropriate reward is
the year are set out in our Annual Report. considered to be the reward which would be obtained from
with Tax Authorities in a number of other cross-border supply routes, necessary to
a third party. This is known as the ‘arm’s length principle’.
countries with the intention of agreeing further ensure supplies of medicines into numerous
We pay a considerable amount of tax in the
Advance Pricing Agreements. These end-markets, can be complex.
UK given that only 5% of Group sales are
agreements provide long-term certainty for
generated in the country. This is because a
both tax authorities and for GSK over the
significant proportion of our global corporate
tax treatment of GSK’s business.
functions and R&D and manufacturingNote to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 50
Our
people
In focus
Our people are essential to our
success. We focus on building their
individual capabilities, and aim to Alicia is an electrical engineering
graduate on one of GSK’s specialist
support and empower them to be graduate schemes. Future talent is
essential to business success and
the best they can be. we run several schemes to support
talented employees, like Alicia, in their
early careers.
Read more on page 53
In this section
Our people overview 51
Setting the standard in
employee healthcare 52
Talent and leadership development 53
Inclusion and diversity 55
Engaging our people 56
Health, safety and well-being 57
Performance, reward and recognition 59Note to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 51
Our people
Overview
By creating strong leaders, offering 2013 at a glance Talent and leadership development Health, safety, and well-being
individual development opportunities and Reached over 6,500 leaders in 30 countries Reduced injury and illness rates by 12%
rewarding our people based on how they through our coaching programmes to from 2012.
deliver as well as what they achieve, we are strengthen leadership capabilities.
motivating our employees to excel and put
Internal perspective See page 57
our values at the heart of every decision “ We have designed the new
See page 53
12%
they make. We want them to feel proud of 6,500
Performance System to connect
the work they do, the company they work
for and the difference they make. individual performance with reward
and align our collective efforts to
For GSK, living our mission starts from within,
by improving the health and well-being of our deliver our strategy. At the heart Health, safety, and well-being
employees. We are helping people build their of the system are individual and Talent and leadership development Equipped 48,300 employees with the tools
energy levels, resilience and productivity, leadership expectations which Increased the number of employees each to cope with workload stress through energy
and we are introducing unrivalled preventive year completing voluntary assignments with and resilience training since 2008.
guide what we do and how we do it,
healthcare benefits for employees and their Non-Government Organisations or non-profit
families worldwide. aligned to our values.” organisations through PULSE to 99 – up from See page 58
94 in 2012. 48,300
As an inclusive employer, we want to ensure Claire Thomas
all of our people feel valued, thrive as
SVP Human Resources, GSK See page 54
individuals and are inspired to work together
Internal perspective
to help us achieve our mission, whatever Inclusion and diversity
their background. “W hen I look at myself now and Increased the proportion of women in
Performance, reward and recognition
management to 41%, up from 40% in 2012.
compare it to before I attended Began the roll out of preventive healthcare
Energy for Performance, I realise See page 55 benefits through our Partnership for
Prevention programme, which will be available
I am a totally different person. I am 41%
to employees and their families worldwide
a better leader, husband and father. by 2018.
The way I look at it is – you have to
See page 59
take care of your own health first
and be a role model for others before
Inclusion and diversity Performance, reward and recognition
they will look up to you as a leader,
The graduation of our first Project Search Launched the GSK Expectations as part of
be willing to listen and want to cohort and subsequent recruitment of the our new Performance System to better link
next group of students. employee reward with our values.
follow what you have to say.”
See page 55 See page 59
Richard Lewis
Immunology & Rare Diseases, GSKNote to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 52
Setting the standard in
employee healthcare
GSK’s Partnership for screenings – at low or no engaged and resilient
Prevention (P4P) programme cost. No other multinational workforce, and giving our
is setting the standard in company is doing this on the employees the opportunity
employee healthcare. same scale. to improve and protect their
health.
In 2012 we piloted the No matter what job they do,
programme in Ecuador, or where they work, we want These services are of even
Ghana, Nigeria and all our employees to have greater need for those
Romania. By 2018, P4P will access to the healthcare working in countries where
offer all benefits-eligible they need to be fit and preventive healthcare may
employees and their families healthy. By providing access be unavailable or access
access to up to 40 preventive to preventive healthcare we is limited.
health services – from are reinforcing our efforts
vaccinations to cancer to maintain a motivated,Note to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 53
Talent and leadership We attract and retain the most talented people by investing in training
and development that is tailored to individuals’ needs, and builds on
development
employees’ strengths.
Managers and leaders Graduate recruitment globally We want the most talented, high-potential
We provide our managers with the skills to employees to become the next leaders at
450
engage their teams and motivate individuals GSK. Our programmes aim to identify and
to perform at their best through our 400 accelerate the progression of our strongest
leadership programmes, which aim to 350 talent through, for example, our flagship
develop future leaders around the world. global MBA programme, ESPRIT. In 2013,
300
85 ESPRIT participants completed a series
In 2013, over 3,500 leaders completed our 250 of rotations across 22 countries in finance,
Leading Delivery programme which helps
200 R&D, medical and commercial units –
middle-level managers translate the strategic
enabling them to build their skills and
ambition of our business into meaningful 150
knowledge in different markets and regions
action. We also enrolled 144 leaders onto 100
(see case study).
Leading Business, which is designed to
50
Graduate to senior leader in
develop the capabilities of those managing
0 just four years with ESPRIT
a business function. For people who are
2011 2012 2013 2015
new to management positions, we launched Target
Management Essentials, which teaches Dipal joined GSK through our post
core management skills. Early careers graduate programme in 2009 and, just
We offer a wide range of opportunities four years later, she has moved into her
Coaching is one of the key ways we help including internships, industrial placements, new role as European Marketing Director.
people build their skills and strengthen apprenticeships and graduate schemes for Completing the ESPRIT MBA
leadership capabilities. We made this a global entry level students. These programmes help programme helped her achieve this.
focus for GSK in 2013, through programmes us develop the skills our business requires in
such as Fundamentals of Leadership, which the future. Our intake of graduates onto The four-year programme enabled her to
provides training for leaders and managers, development programmes around the world gain a broad range of experience working
and Coaching for Effective Leaders. Since continued to rise in 2013, up from 303 in in our pharmaceutical business in
2010, over 450 leaders have been trained 2012 to 334 in 2013, making progress Australia, our Vaccines business in
as Job Plus coaches and over 250 of our towards our global target to recruit 450 Thailand and in the Vaccines Centre of
high potential executives received coaching graduates a year by 2015 (see chart). Excellence in Belgium. This fast-tracked
from Executive Coaches. In total we have In the UK, 58 apprentices joined GSK in her learning and development, and gave
reached over 6,500 leaders through our 2013, and we have committed to recruiting her the skills, knowledge and confidence
coaching programmes. 140 apprentices over the next two years. to take on her new role as a senior leader.Note to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 54
Talent and leadership
development
continued
Development through community involvement “I swapped my job as Director
Marketing in France to work with
Commitment
CARE International in Bangladesh to
Extend volunteering opportunities to bring about develop a communication strategy for
positive change to communities and global health while
providing individual development. CARE and GSK’s 20% reinvestment
initiative to help reduce maternal and
Our PULSE Volunteer Partnership
programme gives employees the child mortality in remote parts of Asia.
opportunity to work full-time for three or I feel that my biggest achievement was
six months with a non-profit organisation or
to develop the staff capacity to
charity, to help address global healthcare
implement communication activities
challenges while developing their leadership
skills. In 2013, 99 employees volunteered after my departure. Having seen the
with 47 organisations, including Save impact of our 20% reinvestment work
the Children, as part of our new global
in the least developed countries, I feel
partnership with the charity (see page 15).
really proud of my work at GSK.”
Employees who completed PULSE
assignments in 2012 were found to be 21% Isabelle
more likely to change roles and 41% less GSK France
likely to leave GSK (compared to the overall
Employees completing PULSE employee “T he PULSE programme has made us a
employee population in the same countries).
development programmes
In 2013, surveys conducted with our more capable organisation – stronger,
partners indicated that 83% of non-profit 100 faster, and smarter. GSK employees
organisations are doing something
90 can know that they are helping to save
differently even six months after the PULSE
volunteers have left their assignments. 80 or greatly improve the lives of people
Find out more about PULSE volunteering 70 around the world.”
on our website and see page 56 for more
60
on volunteering at GSK. Ross Comstock
50 IT Director, Santa Barbara US (an NGO working
with PULSE volunteers since 2009)
40
30
20
10
0
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013Note to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 55
Inclusion and We aim to create an inclusive workplace to attract and retain the most talented
people from all backgrounds and cultures.
diversity
We maintain our long-standing relationship
Women in management positions (%) Project Search improves young
Commitment with disability organisations such as
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 people’s employability
SERMES in Spain and the Business
Continue to promote inclusion and diversity globally Disability Forum in the UK. Through our SVP, VP 25 25 26 27 28
at GSK.
participation in the Project Search initiative, Director 36 37 38 39 40 In 2013, 12 students aged between
Gender diversity we are also helping young people with Manager 42 42 42 43 44 18 and 24 – all with learning disabilities
GSK’s focus is to enable gender diversity learning disabilities make the transition Total 38 38 39 40 41 – completed work experience at GSK,
in management and senior roles. In 2013, from education to work (see case study). to help them transition from education
we have introduced targeted individual to work, as part of our support for
and group coaching and sponsorship for Cultural and ethnic diversity Project Search.
To promote cultural diversity, in 2013,
emerging diverse talent. In 2014, we will
we piloted a new online resource to help One-to-one support from GSK
invite employees to join dialogue sessions
develop employees’ awareness of cultural employees who volunteered as mentors
to discuss and address hidden barriers that
differences and build the skills needed to helped the students build their skills as
could hinder gender diversity.
interact effectively with colleagues around they completed three ten-week rotations
In 2013, the percentage of women in the world. The application will be launched in a variety of roles including reception,
management continued to rise (see chart). globally in 2014. IT, procurement, hospitality and security.
Women represent 21% of our Corporate Three of the interns have since secured
Executive Team and we have exceeded our We value the broad spectrum of experiences part-time jobs working in facilities
goal to achieve at least 25% female board employees from different parts of the world management and retail, and one has
representation by 2013, with five female can bring to our business. The people we been taken on full time by a local Council.
employ in our Emerging Markets, Asia Pacific
non-executive directors making up 33%
and Japan, represent 43% of our total “I am overwhelmed by how much the
of the Board. GSK ranked joint third in the
workforce. Six nationalities are represented students have grown in confidence and
2013 Female FTSE100 Board Report,
on the Corporate Executive Team and Board. ability in such a short time,” says Lorna,
a study of women’s representation on the
Project Search Tutor at GSK. “And the
boards of the UK’s top companies. We monitor and benchmark the proportion students, with their positivity and
Disability of ethnic minorities in our workforce at a commitment to work, have become a real
We want to make sure that people with local country level against industry averages inspiration to many of our employees.”
and the national population in countries
disabilities have access to career
such as the UK and USA (which we report
opportunities at GSK, bringing valuable
locally), and engage with groups
talent and expertise to our business.
representing diverse communities.
Disability is a global focus for GSK and we
are establishing a Global Disability Council
to agree priority areas, set objectives and
monitor our progress.Note to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 56
Engaging our Engaging our employees in our mission and strategy gives them a clear sense
of purpose, and enables them to understand how their actions contribute to the
people
success of the business.
Our CEO and members of the Corporate In 2013, we introduced regular interim
Orange United Employee Engagement
Executive Team (CET) deliver live broadcasts surveys for individual business units and
and messages to keep employees updated functions, covering around 36,000
about the company’s progress towards its employees during the year. Results showed In 2013, for the first time we asked all our
strategy and commitments. We encourage that most businesses had made significant employees from 115 countries to work
employees to have regular interaction with improvements in team leader effectiveness, together to support a single cause.
leaders and provide our leaders with the a priority area for improvement based on the We set them the ambitious goal to raise
resources they need to respond effectively. 2012 survey results. £1 million for Save the Children as part
More than 80% of senior leaders reporting of our global partnership with the charity
to the CET have received communication Our approach to restructuring (see page 15). And we are delighted to
training to help them engage more effectively In 2013, we implemented the second phase see how enthusiastically our people have
with their teams. of a major change programme that was risen to the challenge. From marathon
announced in 2012. The programme exercise sessions of Zumbathons and
Listening and responding to our employees focuses on encouraging more integrated, dodgeball tournaments, to book and bake
We engage with our people formally and collaborative and efficient ways of working sales, fundraising activities during our
informally to understand their views about across our businesses, advancing Orange Week alone raised almost
working at GSK and how we can improve technology and reducing costs. We are £337,000, making a massive contribution
their experience. aware of the effect restructuring can have to the target.
on employees and aim to achieve our
More than 36,000 employees are using our
organisational and financial goals without
new social networking tool to ask questions
eliminating positions or by redeploying
or raise issues, promoting dialogue with
employees where possible. If jobs are lost
colleagues around the world at all levels of the
as a result of changes to the business, we
company. We have also enhanced our intranet
consult with employees and their
to encourage more interaction and internal
representatives, and offer compensation
dialogue by, for example, enabling employees
and other support such as outplacement, in Volunteering
to post comments on news features.
line with local requirements and employment As part of our efforts to engage and motivate
We frequently ask all employees to participate legislation. Our Employee Assistance our people, we encourage them to get involved
in a formal survey to understand how we are Programme and resilience training provide in local projects to support their communities
doing as an employer. We appreciate them additional support (see page 58). through our Orange Day volunteer programme,
taking the time to complete this survey and which entitles employees to one paid day a
responding to their feedback is a priority. year for volunteering. In 2013, we launched
Since the last full survey in 2012, individual a major fundraising initiative, challenging
business units have developed action plans employees around the world to work together
to address several issues identified as key to raise £1 million for Save the Children
areas for improvement, such as training (see case study).
leaders to be better coaches (see page 53),
supporting employees through change and
better recognising individuals’ contributions
(see page 59).Note to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 57
Health, safety
As a progressive healthcare company, helping our employees stay healthy,
and well-being resilient and productive is a priority and brings our mission to life for our people.
in 2013, we reported 131,924 near-miss To improve safety for employees working Leading causes of reportable injury and illnesses (%)
Commitment incidents – an increase of 98% since 2012. in manufacturing, we have continued
to implement risk reduction initiatives. 11.9
C peo on pti ln eu te o t go r oc wre a at ne d a p w ero fork ri mng i ne n av hir eo an lm the y n at n t dh a ret sin ils iep nir te ws ay. O sau fer tm y o mv ae n t ao g a e mgl eo nb ta wl m ill o fad ce il l if to ar t eh e sha alt rh i na gn d This included upgrading the protective 5.6 24.0
guards that stop manufacturing employees
6.9
of risk profiles and best practices between
First and foremost, we have a responsibility getting close to machinery when in
sites, while retaining a focus on health
to ensure no physical harm comes to our operation, and reviewing respiratory 11.4
and safety at site level. We have also 23.5
people while they are at work, and safety is a protective equipment to reduce exposure
fundamental part of our corporate culture. expanded our network of health and safety to harmful airborne powders. 18.2
coordinators who make sure our safety
But we recognise that employees’ resilience
programmes are on track. In 2013, we also continued to improve
can also be affected by a wide variety of
Ergonomic
process safety across our manufacturing
factors, from workload to stress in their We had two serious incidents in 2013: Slips/trips/falls
personal lives. Our efforts to promote two employees received minor burns in a en ved n R ts& sD u co hp e ar sa t fiio ren ss , t eo x pp lr oe sv ie on nt s s ae nr dio us M Moac toh ri n vee hry icle accidents
employee well-being focus on giving our a fire in Irvine, UK; and a maintenance Contact with sharp objects
releases of hazardous substances. Working
people the support they need to build their worker in Verona, Italy, suffered a partial Burns thermal/chemical
with the University of Sheffield in the UK, Other
energy levels and cope with stress. finger amputation during a check on
we are developing a four-day open access
We are also going one step further than any machinery which required the safety training course on process safety covering Reportable injury and illness rate
guard to be removed. (Per 100,000 hours worked)
other multinational employer by committing to fire and explosion risk, and prevention
provide comprehensive preventive healthcare Targeting specific safety risks strategies specifically for the pharmaceutical 0.50
benefits to all our employees and their families In many countries, driving represents one of and consumer healthcare industries.
0.45
worldwide through our Partnership for the biggest safety risks to our employees. The course will form part of the University’s
Prevention programme (see performance, Following a pilot in 2012, we launched a driver Masters of Science in Process Safety and 0.40
reward and recognition, page 59). safety training programme in 11 countries in Loss Prevention. 0.35
Embedding a culture of zero harm 2013. More than 2,300 employees have 0.30
completed the training and it is having a Read more online
To achieve our goal of zero harm to 0.25
significant impact. GSK Australia, for instance,
employees, we focus on preventing
has experienced a 25% reduction in We publish more detail online on key 0.20
incidents before they occur and targeting
business-related driving incidents in the first issues including: 0.15
training and awareness activities on key risks
year of implementing the programme. In 2014,
such as safe driving and use of machinery. • Hazardous chemical management 0.10
we will deliver this training in three further
In 2013, we achieved a 12% reduction in injury emerging markets through tablets and smart • GSK and REACH 0.5
and illness rate compared with 2012. We also phones. Employees can also invite a family 0
2010 2011 2012 2013 2015
worked to increase reporting of near-miss member to do the training free of charge, Target
incidents to help us address specific safety helping to extend safety to their home life.
issues before an incident occurs and share this
knowledge across the business to help prevent
more serious incidents elsewhere. As a result,Note to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 58
Health, safety
and well-being
continued
Health and safety data summary Impact of Energy and Resilience training (2008-2013)
2010 2011 2012 2013 Type of Total number Countries Impact
training of employees
Hours worked (million) 207.9 204.0** 204.2** 185.7***
Energy for 8,300 35 90% reported increases in energy
Fatalities 1 2 2 0 Performance 12 months after the programme
(E4P)
Calendar days lost 10,824 10,114** 9,370** 6,875 More likely to make improvements in their
lifestyle, especially diet, and report they
Number of injuries and illnesses with lost time 508** 429** 404** 349*** are in excellent health
Lost-time injury and illness rate* 0.24 0.21 0.20 0.19 Resilience 4,000 16 Improvement in recovery and energy
(personal)
Calendar days lost rate* 5.21 4.84 4.59 3.71
Resilience 36,000 55 Significant reduction in perceived
Reportable injury and illness rate* 0.41 0.36 0.33 0.29 (team-based) workplace pressures and better able
to cope
Number of near-miss incidents † 7,034 29,309 66,514 131,934
* Per 100,000 hours worked
** Data has been restated where actual data is now available to replace estimated data that was reported previously
*** In 2013, this excludes data from a number of Commercial Operations business units.
† Near-miss incidents were reported globally from 2012. Data from 2010 and 2011 relates to results of a pilot project from
Global Manufacturing and Supply
+ Data is assured by BV, see page 70
Energised and resilient employees The objective is to enable employees to lead In 2013, we introduced Renew and Refuel • Managing for Resilience – a one-day
We believe levels of energy are a good healthier and happier lives at work and at and Energy Coaching programmes to our workshop that teaches leaders how to
indicator of how people feel and perform. home. Participants agree that it works: Energy and Resilience portfolio, and build their teams’ skills and confidence,
By supporting employees to manage and 80% said their performance at work had launched several new courses, including: and reduce stress that can lead to
increase their energy levels, we are helping improved after completing E4P training. mental illness.
• Time for a Moment – an online course that
them cope better with workloads and
By the end of 2013, a total of 44,500 encourages employees to find time to take We have also scaled-up our Employee
stress within and outside the workplace.
employees in 55 countries had participated short breaks in their working day to Assistance Programme (EAP) – enabling
Our Energy for Performance (E4P) in energy and resilience training since it increase concentration and focus. employees worldwide to access practical
programme includes personal and was introduced in 2008 and it is having a advice, information and counselling through
• Energising You! – an educational initiative
team-based workshops and training significant impact (see quote). The results a confidential helpline and website.
that provides advice on how to boost
courses that help employees remain of our research on the impact of E4P have
energy by eating regular, healthy meals.
focused, energised and productive. been published in a peer-reviewed journal.Note to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 59
Performance, reward For GSK, how people achieve results is just as important as what they achieve.
Incentivising behaviour that is consistent with our values is a priority in the
and recognition
way we evaluate, recognise and reward performance.
Putting our values at the heart of Extending preventive healthcare benefits “B efore the introduction of P4P,
performance and reward to all employees there wasn’t wide awareness of the
In 2014, we are introducing a new We are putting our values into practice by
importance of vaccines and other
performance system to ensure our introducing competitive benefits packages,
employees understand what is expected of including preventive healthcare benefits for medical check-ups – for example
them and help them set clear objectives that employees and their families that are unmatched I did not know that there was a
will help deliver our strategy. This will create by any other multinational company.
vaccine that can help protect against
a clear link between our values and how our
Our ground-breaking Partnership for cervical cancer. The general health
employees are rewarded, with GSK
Expectations clearly outlining the way we Prevention (P4P) programme offers all screenings have also made me realise
benefits-eligible employees, and their family
expect employees to work and deliver our that I need to be cautious about my
members, access to up to 40 preventive
strategy. We have also introduced a new
health services at little or no cost. To date, glucose and cholesterol levels and
five-point rating scale to enable us to
over 5,200 employees and family members make certain lifestyle changes
provide clearer feedback on employee
in 11 countries including Ecuador, Ghana,
performance and help differentiate our immediately. If the P4P service did
Nigeria, Romania and the Middle East, are
best performers. not exist, I may not have taken such
receiving P4P benefits. We plan to
The performance system includes a new implement P4P globally by 2018. As part health issues into consideration.
global bonus structure where 60% of an of the pilot we ran in 2012, we also focused And even if I had, I might not have
employee’s bonus will be aligned to the on encouraging employees to do more
been able to afford the treatment.”
achievement of their individual objectives exercise and improve their diet, and have Recognising our exceptional scientists
and 40% will be based on business area since developed a global physical fitness
Rhoda
results. This greater emphasis on individual programme which will be launched in
An employee in Ghana Our business is founded on innovation
performance will help employees 2014. For more on P4P, see case study
and we want our scientists to know we
understand how they personally contribute on page 52.
value the important contribution they
to the delivery of our strategy and living our
Pensions and other benefits make. Our Exceptional Science Award
values, and how this links to their reward.
Other benefits and total reward packages Programme offers rewards of company
We are also introducing a new vary from country to country, but are always shares to scientists who have made an
compensation system for our sales teams designed to be attractive and competitive outstanding contribution to the discovery
that rewards patient-focused behaviours, in each local market. These include shares and development of new medicines –
rather than the amount of sales (see and savings plans, health benefits and but who are not eligible for annual share
page 44). For our most senior people, we pensions (see our Annual Report). grants. The programme is designed to
disincentivise unethical working practices emphasise how scientific research and
using a ‘clawback’ mechanism that allows development is linked to the success of
us to recover performance-related pay. our business. We awarded 616 grants
See our Annual Report for more on in 2013, and a total of 1,792 since 2011.
Executive pay.Note to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 60
Our
planet
In focus
We are working hard to reduce our
environmental footprint, even as we grow
our business to extend the benefits of GSK Adina is a pharmacy manager in London
at one of the pharmacies where GSK is
products to more patients and customers running our Complete the Cycle inhaler
recycling scheme. Complete the Cycle
around the world. encourages patients to return their old
inhalers to a participating pharmacy so
they can be recycled, helping reduce
waste and carbon emissions.
Read more on page 66
In this section
Our planet overview 61
Taking a scientific approach
to sustainability 62
Carbon 63
Water 65
Waste 66
Managing other impacts 67
Engagement 68
Data to summary 69
Summary of assurance statement 70Note to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 61
Our planet
Overview
We are committed to managing and
2013 at a glance Carbon
reducing the environmental impacts of our
operations and our products across their Our Scope 3 emissions (excluding raw materials)
increased by 1.5% in 2013 across the value chain
life-cycle. Our stakeholders expect us to,
due to strong sales of HFA propellant-based
and the long-term success of our business
Carbon inhalers, and have increased by 11% since 2010.
depends on it. To ensure we can continue
Our Scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions
to deliver high quality products to patients
from our operations grew slightly in 2013,
See page 64
and consumers in the future, we must
although they remain 7% lower than our Internal perspective
protect the natural resources we need to
make them today.
2010 baseline. Water 2%
“W e are focused on reducing
Used 2% less water in our
These resources are already becoming operations during 2013. emissions, energy and water use
scarcer and more expensive, and the effects See page 64 throughout our supply chain, which
of climate change and water scarcity could Mapped water use across our value chain
both benefits the environment and
threaten some of the improvements in global – production of raw materials accounts for
health our medicines, vaccines and External perspective an estimated 84% of our total water footprint also reduces waste and cost, so that
consumer products are helping to deliver. and our own operations represent just 1%. we can reinvest savings in
“ I applaud GSK’s approach to
innovation and improving access
We have set ambitious goals to reduce minimising their environmental See page 65
carbon, water and waste across our value to our medicines.”
footprint. They are the first
chain – from the sourcing of raw materials Water
and the impacts of our own labs and company worldwide to announce Became the first company to be awarded Roger Connor
President, Global Manufacturing and Supply,
factories, to the use and disposal of our that all new respiratory drugs will global certification to the Carbon Trust’s GSK
products by patients and consumers. only be launched in dry powder Water Standard in recognition of
By using resources more efficiently, and our year-on-year reductions
formulations, which have less than
collaborating with others to tackle these in operational water use globally.
challenges, we can reduce costs and 10% of the global warming
enhance competitiveness. potential than HFA inhalers.
See page 65
REDUCING WATER Engagement
YEAR ON YEAR
However, GSK must maintain Reviewed carbon,
Waste
water and waste data
momentum if they are to reach
Generated 11% more waste than in 2012 due from over 216 suppliers
their ambitious carbon targets.” to business growth, but achieved 6% to better understand
reduction compared to 2010. environmental impacts
Ashley Woodcock OBE in our supply chain.
Consultant Respiratory Physician, University See page 66
Hospital of South Manchester See page 68
Shared in Nobel Peace Prize with IPCC Waste
and Al Gore
Achieved zero waste to landfill at 37 sites.
See page 66Note to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 62
Taking a scientific
approach to
sustainability
The sourcing of raw materials Jurong, Singapore, teams at are now bio-treating waste in the world). This innovative
and the complex, energy- the eight facilities where we and recovering the energy process will significantly
intensive chemical processes produce active ingredients produced, achieved zero cut our carbon emissions
involved in transforming them are implementing holistic waste to landfill for the third by reducing cooling
into our products accounts for improvement plans which year running in 2013, and has requirements, as well as
around half of our value chain are bringing significant cut water use by 57% and producing less organic waste.
carbon footprint. environmental benefits and carbon emissions by 41%
Many of the improvements
cost reductions. since 2008.
Over the last five years, we are making take time to
we have been using Infrastructure investments We are also making changes implement. But across all
innovative technology to included installing a to the chemical processes eight sites, we have already
reduce environmental biogas plant at Irvine, themselves. For example, we cut energy use by 4%, CO
2
impacts associated with UK, a combined heat and are investing in a new process emissions by 12%, water use
manufacturing active power facility in Worthing, at our facility in Quality Road, by 10% and waste to landfill
pharmaceutical ingredients UK, and a photo oxidation Singapore, which uses by 82% since 2010.
– the substances in our system for waste treatment enzymes in the manufacturing
drugs that treat or prevent in Singapore. Our site in of amoxicillin (one of the most
illness. Following trials in Cork, Ireland, where we widely prescribed antibioticsNote to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 63
Carbon We have set ambitious targets to achieve a carbon neutral value chain by 2050.
We are reducing operational carbon emissions, and engaging with suppliers
and consumers to cut emissions associated with sourcing raw materials
and using our products.
Understanding our 2013 value chain carbon footprint
Raw materials GSK’s operations Logistics Use of our products Disposal
We are working with suppliers to reduce We are investing in technology, efficiency We aim to minimise carbon emissions Some of our products, particularly We have established an inhaler
the impacts associated with sourcing raw measures and renewable energy to reduce from transporting our products to propellant-based inhalers, generate recycling programme and engage with
materials, as well as exploring ways to use carbon emissions from energy use in our customers by using sea freight rather carbon emissions during use by patients to reduce emissions associated
resources more efficiently in our products. operations. We also generate carbon emissions than air and by redesigning packaging patients and consumers. with disposal of our products.
during the production of propellant-based to make transportation more efficient.
inhalers and from employee travel.
40% 14% 1% 44% 1%
5.6m* 1.8m 0.2m 6.3m 0.2m*
tonnes COe per annum tonnes COe per annum tonnes COe per annum tonnes COe per annum tonnes COe per annum
2 2 2 2 2
1.3m 5.3m
Use of metered
Energy
tonnes CO 2e per annum tonnes CO 2e per annum dose inhalers
0.25m 1.0m*
HFA and process
Use of other
tonnes CO 2e per annum emissions tonnes CO 2e per annum
products
0.1m
Business travel
tonnes CO 2e per annum Total emissions
15m
0.2m
Sales force tonnes CO e per annum
tonnes COe per annum 2
2
* This is an estimateNote to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 64
Carbon
continued
Performance in 2013 Operational impacts Our vaccines site in Tuas, Singapore, has External recognition and partnerships
Reducing energy use, and the carbon installed a trigeneration plant which uses In 2013, our achievements in cutting carbon
Commitment emissions associated with generating waste energy generated in the production emissions across our value chain were
energy that we purchase, is an important of electricity for heating and cooling. This recognised by the CDP, a not-for-profit
Reduce our overall carbon footprint by 25% by 2020
focus of our programme to cut has improved energy efficiency by 15-20%, organisation providing a global framework
(vs. 2010) and have a carbon neutral value chain
by 2050. environmental impacts. We are investing and saved around £1 million a year. In 2013, to measure companies’ impacts on the
in energy-efficient technologies and the site’s achievements were recognised by environment. GSK was the only healthcare
In 2013, our Scope 1 and 2 emissions, increasing our use of renewable energy. the Singapore Energy Efficiency National company listed in the Global 500 climate
those in our operational boundaries, were For example, at our facility in Irvine, UK, Partnership Awards in the Best Practice change report 2013, to be ranked in the
1.83 million tonnes CO e, a slight increase of we are introducing a series of alternative category. By improving efficiency, these CDP Performance Leadership Index, and
2
0.6% compared to 2012, but a 7% reduction energy sources, including a £3.7 million measures have prevented the site’s total the CDP Disclosure Leadership Index for
since 2010. The investments we made in wind turbine and an anaerobic digester energy consumption from rising even as both our performance and the quality of our
2013 will start to deliver further carbon that will use waste from the site to generate production volumes increased. reporting. Our 2013 CDP submission is
emission reductions in 2014 (see chart). energy. The combined heat and power plant publicly available on the CDP website.
We continue to identify opportunities for
we installed in 2010 is already reducing the
In 2013, our Scope 3 emissions, such as profitable energy and carbon emissions During the year we also received the
cost of producing our antibiotics at the site
those associated with logistics, business reductions at all our sites around the world. Carbon Trust’s Best in Continuing Carbon
by £650,000 annually.
travel and patients’ use of our HFA propellant- In 2013, for example, we increased the Reduction award for year-on-year
based inhalers, increased by 1.5% compared amount of biomass used as a fuel, replacing reductions in emissions associated with
to 2012 – an overall increase of 11% since coal at two sites in India. our operations. This followed our global
2010 (see chart). Tackling our Scope 3 certification to the Carbon Trust Standard
emissions continues to be a challenge, Scope 1 & 2 GHG Emissions Scope 3 GHG Emissions in 2012, which we will renew in 2014.
especially as our product sales continue to
increase. In particular, we are looking at 2,500,000 14,000,000 We continue to work with the Association of
long-term options to reduce our carbon the British Pharmaceutical Industry and the
12,000,000
emissions related to Ventolin whilst still 2,000,000 UK National Health Service Sustainable
meeting patient needs and preferences. 10,000,000 Development Unit. Following the
development of carbon footprinting
Product impacts 1,500,000 8,000,000 guidelines for the pharmaceutical sector in
We are using carbon footprint analyses of 6,000,000 2012, together we launched a tool to help
1,000,000
our top 35 products to identify where we companies calculate the carbon footprint
4,000,000
can make the most effective reductions of tablet medicines that are distributed in
500,000
from emissions associated with our 2,000,000 blister packs.
products – from sourcing raw materials,
to manufacturing, to use and disposal. 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 GSK is also a member of the UN Caring for
For example, in 2013 we reduced the Climate programme, an initiative that is
amount of propellant (HFA134a, a powerful Gas & other fuel Purchased materials increasing businesses’ role in addressing
greenhouse gas) used to purge aerosol cans E Pl re oc pt eri lic ai nty
t
e&
m
s it se sa iom
ns during manufacture of inhalers
P Br uo sd inu ec st
s
l o trg ai vs eti lc bs
y air
climate change.
of air before they are filled with Ventolin. Sales force travel Propellant emissions during use of inhalers
Other emissions Use of other products
Disposal of productsNote to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 65
Water To reduce the overall water impact associated with our products, we are working
to reduce suppliers’ and consumers’ water use, as well as targeting reductions in
our own operations.
This analysis will help us develop effective Each year, we conduct a high-level We rolled out improvement programmes
Commitment programmes to meet our 2020 commitment assessment of water use in our global in Pakistan and Kenya in 2012, followed
to cut water impact by 20% across our operations, using the World Business by the UK and India in 2013, and we are
By 2020, reduce our water impact across the value
value chain. For example, we have already Council for Sustainable Development’s starting to see results. For example, our
chain by 20% (vs. 2010).
begun efforts to address consumer water Global Water Tool to help us identify where Horlicks manufacturing plant in Slough,
Mapping our water footprint across use by using our toothpaste brands to we can save water and respond to potential UK – which was our second biggest
our value chain launch ‘Turn off the Tap’ campaigns in Italy water risks. Four countries – Belgium, India, consumer of water – has reduced water
We use more than 15 million cubic metres and Puerto Rico, which encourages people the UK and the USA – account for 70% use by 56% since 2010.
of water a year in our operations – research to use less water when brushing their teeth. of our total water use. We also use the
External recognition and partnerships
laboratories, manufacturing facilities and WBCSD tool and information on local
Reducing water use in our operations We are working with NGOs to develop a
offices. But this accounts for just 1% of our watersheds to identify operations in areas
In 2013, we achieved a further 2% reduction long-term strategy that will address issues
total water footprint. The remaining 99% of of water scarcity.
in water consumption in our operations, of water scarcity, water quality, and
our footprint relates to water used in the
keeping us on track to meet our 2015 target We have developed a systematic approach regulatory risk and help reduce potential
rest of our value chain (see chart). To
to cut operational water use by 20% (from to find opportunities to save water at sites impacts on communities. This builds on
reduce our overall water impact, we need
the 2010 baseline). with high volume use, where consumption is the commitments we made in the UN CEO
to explore ways to reduce our suppliers’ and
increasing and in areas where water is scarce. Water Mandate, an initiative that helps
consumers’ water use too.
companies develop and implement
Working with external experts to gain a better sustainable water practices which GSK
understanding of our water footprint and signed in 2009.
where our biggest impacts are, we estimated
In 2013, GSK became the first company to
the total water footprint associated with our
products was 1,540 million m3. The production Net water consumption in our operations be awarded global certification to the Carbon
Trust’s Water Standard in recognition of our
of raw materials used to make our products 2010 2011 2012 2013 2015
Estimated Value Chain Water Footprint* year-on-year reductions in water use, and the
account for the vast majority of our footprint, Target
way we manage and measure water across
and the second biggest contributor is
Million cubic metres 18.7 17.4 16.1 15.7 14.9 our global operations. We also respond to the
consumer use of our products (see chart).
CDP Water Disclosure Project each year and
This initial high-level assessment helped our latest submission is publicly available on
us determine where we need to more Estimated Value Chain Water Footprint* the CDP website.
accurately investigate water consumption in
our value chain – including water use in the
agricultural supply chains for the milk, malt,
wheat and glucose that goes into some of
our products, and water in the use of our Water used to produce raw materials 84%
toothpaste by consumers. We are also Water used to generate purchased energy
2%
Water used in our operations
starting to understand where in the world
Water used by consumers and patients using our products
our water use has a high impact on the 1%
environment and communities. * Based on an analysis of 2010 data and latest version conversion factors 13%
Water used to produce raw materials
Water used to generate purchased energy
Water used in our operations
Water used by consumers and patients using our productsNote to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 66
Waste Our goal is to halve operational waste by 2020. We are doing this by adopting
four simple steps to eliminate, reuse, recycle and generate energy from waste –
in that order of priority.
Operational waste
Read more online
Commitment 2010 2011 2012 2013 2015 2020
Target commitment
By 2020, reduce our operational waste by 50% We publish more detail online on key
(vs. 2010). Total waste generated 178 170 151 167 133 89 issues including:
(thousand tonnes)*
In 2013, we generated 11% more waste • Climate change
than in 2012 as a result of business growth. Waste to landfill 17.5 13.5 10.0 10.5 12.9 0
• Hazardous chemical management
During the year we sent only 6% of our total (thousand tonnes)
waste to landfill and 37 of our sites have • Genetically modified micro organisms and
now achieved zero waste to landfill – up * In 2013, we changed the way we report on waste and no longer include solvent waste that is recycled and reused on site as Environment, Health and Safety (EHS)
from 34 in 2012. By 2020, we aim to halve part of the total waste generated.
• GSK and REACH
our operational waste compared to 2010
and and have zero waste to landfill. Breathing life into old inhalers • GSK and the convention on
biological diversity
We recognise that as our business continues
to grow we need to continue our efforts to Around 63% of the 73 million inhalers prevents the remaining propellant in used • GSK public policy on nanotechnology
reduce waste that our sites generate. We used in the UK every year go in the inhalers being released as greenhouse
have identified which sites are responsible rubbish bin; most end up going to landfill. gases, as we collect it when crushing the • Ozone depletion and metered-dose
for generating the majority of our waste and cans to recover the aluminium. inhalers for asthma
GSK’s inhaler recycling programme,
in 2014 we will have an increased focus on • Pharmaceuticals in environment
Complete the Cycle, encourages patients Now established in the UK and in 31 cities
developing and implementing improvements
to return their old inhalers to participating in the USA, the programme has also been • The impact of climate change on health
at 4 high impact manufacturing sites in
pharmacies, which are then sent back to set up in several other markets including
addition to our established programme to us to be recycled. Not only does this Australia, Chile, the Czech Republic • Use of ozone depleting substances in
reduce waste. ancillary plant and equipment
reduce waste sent to landfill, it also and Hungary.
Efforts to cut waste to landfill include
reusing refrigerated packaging from
shipping vaccines as an insulation material
for the construction industry, which saves
64 tonnes of waste a year that we previously
paid to send to landfill. At our sites in
Barnard Castle and Montrose, UK, we have
set up centralised points of collection for
waste and are using smaller bins that are
more frequently emptied to encourage
employees to use them more regularly.Note to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 67
Managing We manage a range of other important issues to reduce our overall
environmental impact, in addition to our priority focus areas of carbon,
other impacts
water and waste.
Sustainable supply lines our medicines – and to encourage the Biodiversity Environmental remediation
use of lower-impact alternatives. GSK is not directly involved in bioprospecting We take responsibility for removing pollution
Commitment – the process of discovering new products and contaminants from soil, surface and
We are also investing in research into
that come from biological resources, such ground water at facilities we have used
Build sustainable supply lines for our Nutrition portfolio sustainable chemistry. In 2013, construction
as plants or animals. But we do source a previously, and at the disposal sites of waste
and work with local farmers to improve their agricultural of a carbon neutral sustainable chemistry
practices, improve their yields, their competitiveness number of compounds which are derived management companies we have used.
laboratory began as part of a £12 million
and their livelihoods. from biological resources. We take In 2013, we spent $5 million on remediation
collaboration with the University of
responsibility for ensuring these have been work, compared with US$3.8 million in
In 2013, we began working with a dairy supplier Nottingham in the UK. We also pledged
obtained legitimately and are used in the way 2012. We have sole or part responsibility
in India to develop a secure supply of locally £400,000 each year until 2024 to establish
they are intended. We also support efforts for 28 remediation sites globally.
produced whey protein (from milk) to make a Centre of Excellence for Sustainable
to conserve biological diversity, such as the
Horlicks. This will benefit the supplier by Chemistry in São Paulo, Brazil, to advance Compliance and fines
Convention on Biological Diversity, the Bonn
improving agricultural practices and help us and share knowledge on the subject In 2013, we received three environmental
Guidelines and the Nagoya Protocol.
reduce our environmental footprint. We are now between researchers in Brazil and the UK. fines totalling £2,110. These fines were for
sourcing 60% of whey protein from the local In Singapore, we are funding research into Packaging late submission of a report about the fuel
supplier in India and we aim to increase the green and sustainable manufacturing as We are also working to reduce the oil purchased at our sites in Pennsylvania,
amount of locally produced whey protein we part of our partnership with the Singapore environmental impact of our packaging and USA; improper labelling of an empty road
use to 85% by 2016. Within our product range, Economic Development Board. aim to source 90% of wood fibre material tanker leaving our site in Cork, Ireland; and
Horlicks is the second largest source of carbon used for paper packaging from responsible a discharge of waste that was above the
Pharmaceuticals in the environment
emissions and milk-based products account sources by 2020. In 2013, we repeated effluent limit in Tianjin, China.
Pharmaceuticals are not always completely
for more than half of its carbon footprint. our survey of suppliers of carton board
absorbed or broken down by the body, Internal audits
packaging, corrugated packaging and
Green chemistry and residues can find their way into the We audit our operations to make sure
leaflet paper and use this information
We apply the principles of green chemistry environment when excreted – or if unused environmental risks and impacts are
to help us in our purchasing decisions.
when producing many of our medicines to medicines are disposed of by consumers. identified and managed effectively. Sites are
help us reduce or eliminate hazardous We take this issue seriously and assess the Refrigerants selected for audits based on knowledge of
chemicals from the drug development and environmental risk associated with patients’ We have reduced our inventory of the business, modelling of risk indicators
discovery process. See GSK’s position use of our products to help ensure that chlorofluorocarbon (CFC) refrigerants, and trends from previous audit findings.
statement on Hazardous Chemicals predicted concentrations do not exceed which deplete the ozone layer, to below The environmental, health and safety (EHS)
Management for more information. safe levels. We also conduct and support reportable levels. This inventory will be audits are conducted by a team of certified
research in this area. For example, we have eliminated within the next five years as ISO 14001 Environmental Management lead
Our Green Chemistry Performance Unit
funded two students at the University of remaining equipment containing CFCs auditors. In 2013, the team audited 27 sites
(CPU), established in 2012, researches
York and the University of Cambridge to becomes obsolete. across different business units around the
ways to replace hazardous or unsustainable
study the impacts of pharmaceuticals in the world. The site audits included a review of
chemicals with lower impact alternatives.
environment as part of their PhD research. environmental management systems. In
In 2013, we published a specialist guide
Our policy statement on Pharmaceuticals addition we audited our approach and
that helps our scientists understand the
in the Environment is available online. governance processes around our
environmental impact of different
progression towards our 2020 commitments
reagents – chemicals used to produce
on carbon, water and waste. For information
on audits of our suppliers, (see page 45).Note to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 68
Engagement We cannot meet our ambitious commitments without engaging our employees
and partners across our value chain, and working with others in our industry
to address global environmental challenges.
Employees Industry
Using a range of tools, including online We also communicate GSK’s sustainability
social networks, we build our employees’ message and share our experiences
understanding of environmental issues externally. In 2013, for example, our Head
and the ways they can help address these of Environmental Sustainability was a guest
collaboratively. Our global network of speaker at Cleanmed Europe and CDP’s
sustainability advocates within GSK, help FTSE 350 Climate Change Report launch.
to raise awareness among their colleagues Participating in Cleanmed Europe gave us an
about the changes they could make at work opportunity to engage with 500 healthcare
and at home to reduce environmental and pharmaceutical professionals – and
impacts. We recognise teams who have gather useful feedback on our performance.
made a particularly valuable contribution
to environmental sustainability through our
annual CEO’s Environment, Health, Safety
and Sustainability Awards (see case study).
Suppliers
In 2013, we started systematically gathering
data from our suppliers on their carbon
emissions, water use and waste, building on
our engagement with 32 suppliers in 2012.
Using Ecodesk, a publicly accessible
database, we asked over 550 suppliers to
submit their data to help us better understand
Employees recognised for discovering new process that cuts carbon and costs and map our suppliers’ sustainability
performance. By the end of 2013, 261 of
In 2013, our CEO’s Environment, Health, chemical that we use in clinical trials for the suppliers we contacted had completed
Safety and Sustainability Awards a treatment for Fabry disease – a rare an Ecodesk profile.
recognised an exceptional team of genetic metabolic condition. Using
We are using this data to prioritise our
biologists and chemists working across synthetic biochemistry, the new process
efforts to reduce suppliers’ environmental
our R&D and manufacturing units. Working not only reduces manufacturing costs, but
impacts. For example, we met with Granules,
collaboratively, the team discovered and also cuts CO e emissions by around 80%.
2 the company that supplies the active
developed a new way to manufacture a
ingredient we use in Panadol. Together, we
identified opportunities to reduce energy
use by 16% and have set up a collaborative
programme to realise these savings.Note to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 69
Data
summary
% vs 2015
2010 2011 2012 2013 2010 target
Scope 1 and 2 emissions (’000 tonnes CO e)
2
Gas and other fuel 570 572 530 533 -6%
Electricity and steam 964 881 804 796 -17%
Propellant emissions during manufacture of inhalers 214 223 244 254 19%
Sales force travel 165 169 167 177 7%
Other emissions 62 72 77 73 18%
Total 1,975 1,917 1,822 1,833 -7%
Scope 3 emissions (’000 tonnes CO e)
2
Purchased materials* 5,600 5,600 5,600 5,600 0%
Product logistics 169 200 203 202 20%
Business travel by air 96 97 98 93 -3%
Propellant emissions during use of inhalers 4,647 4,760 5,198 5,302 14%
Use of other products* 1,000 1,000 1,000 1,000 0%
Disposal of products* 200 200 200 200 0%
Total 11,712 11,857 12,299 12,398 6%
Total scope 1 and 2 emissions (’000 tonnes CO e) 13,687 13,774 14,121 14,230 4% -10%
2
Water (million m3)
Water use in our operations 18.7 17.4 16.1 15.7 -16% -20%
Waste (’000 tonne)
Waste generated** 178 170 151 168 -6% -25%
Waste to landfill 17.2 13.1 10.1 10.5 -39% -25%
Mass efficiency %***
Weighted average of new processes in calendar year 1.5% 2.8% 2.3% 1.0% 2.5%
* Estimated data (not verified by Bureau Veritas)
** Waste generated no longer includes solvent waste that is recycled on site and reused in processes
*** Mass efficiency is a measure of the amount of raw materials required to make a new active pharmaceutical ingredient, and weighted to account for the scale of manufacture. In 2013, one low volume process was transferred to manufacturing, leading to
the lower efficiency figure. We remain on track to achieve our 2015 target of 2.5%, which is an average of performance over five years. We will no longer report mass efficiency because it covers the chemistry stages registered for regulatory purposes,
not the complete manufacturing process. We now have an established carbon footprint reduction strategy with a 25% reduction target by 2020 (not verified by BV).Note to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 70
Summary of assurance
statement
Basis of reporting and Bureau Veritas’ Summary Opinion and Recommendations Bureau Veritas’ Code of Ethics ensures
external assurance independent assurance statement As a result of the verification conducted that staff avoid conflict of interest and
Energy and COe emissions data are Bureau Veritas UK Limited has been as per the scope of work, it is Bureau maintain high ethical standards in their
2
collected from all 72 of our pharmaceuticals engaged by GSK plc to provide Veritas’ opinion that GSK’s 2013 EHS business activities.
and consumer healthcare manufacturing independent assurance of the Environment, performance data:
GSK’s response to assurance
sites, 16 vaccines sites, 21 pharmaceuticals Health and Safety (EHS) performance data
• provide a fair summary of EHS-related We are pleased with Bureau Vertitas’ findings
and consumer healthcare R&D sites, the UK for 2013 that has been prepared by GSK
activities and performance; and on GSK’s established processes in managing
headquarters building and over 60 offices plc. The objective of Bureau Veritas’ work
Environment, Health and Safety data. We are
and distribution centres. Water and is to express an opinion on the accuracy • contain performance metrics and
committed to continue improving, with the
hazardous and non-hazardous waste data are and reliability of the EHS data and to
information that are based on established
ultimate goal of providing the most accurate
collected from all our manufacturing vaccines provide a summary of findings.
collection and collation processes, and
EHS data to the public on our website. In
operations, and R&D locations. Based on our
are deemed to be free from significant
The full assurance statement can be found 2014, we will continue to work toward
materiality assessment, we do not collect
error, omission or bias.
online that includes details of the scope of improving our data accuracy with an emphasis
non-hazardous waste and wastewater data
from offices. Volatile organic compound work, methodology, findings and The data evidenced at site level was seen on incorporating the recommendations
(VOCs) are reported only from sites that recommendations for improvement. to be based on well-established and provided by Bureau Veritas. The data in the
manufacture pharmaceuticals or contain R&D implemented data management processes Corporate Responsibility Report can be used
Summary of Scope and Methodology
pilot plants. We use the Greenhouse Gas and underlying systems. by sites to improve their management of their
Assessment of performance data
environmental, health, and safety programmes.
Protocol for all of our calculations of
contained within the EHS Data Table and
There are certain areas that could lead to In 2014, we will continue working with all sites
COe emissions from energy use, propellants
2 associated data management processes: further refinement, such as: more complete to improve their data submission, including
and refrigerants.
this involved detailed review of the integrity
inclusion of EHS data from the Commercial providing comments for the explanation of
of selected datasets and aggregation and
We use COe country factors for electricity Operations business units; and more formal trends in a complete and timely fashion.
2 checking processes at a corporate level,
published by the International Energy definition and structure to the quality control
Agency in 2013. as well as sampling data back to source process for following up anomalies detected Read GSK’s full response to assurance here.
at four GSK sites. The sites were chosen
in consolidated EHS data. Further detail
Sites were selected for review from all of the to represent the facilities with significant
may be seen in the full assurance statement.
GSK businesses. Site specific audits were environmental impact, GSK operations
conducted at four sites where data was and geographical spread. Statement of independence, impartiality
verified back to source. There was special and competence
Interviews with senior EHS staff to
focus on sites that had been top contributors Bureau Veritas is an independent professional
understand GSK’s objectives and approach
to environmental emissions the previous services company that specialises in quality,
to data management.
year, sites that had not been previously environmental, health, safety and social
visited in prior years, and sites that had accountability, with over 180 years history.
difficulty submitting data in a timely manner. The assurance team has extensive
experience in environmental, social, ethical,
and health and safety information, systems
and processes.
London, February 2014Note to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 71
Governance and
Our commitment to good governance and transparent reporting reflects our core
values. To help us prioritise the issues we focus on, we engage with a wide range
engagement
of stakeholders to understand what matters most to them.
Governance Audit & Assurance
We have a robust governance structure Our governance structure and systems Our Audit & Assurance department conducts
in place to evaluate our policies and independent assessments of the adequacy
programmes, and ensure the approach we and effectiveness of GSK’s management of
take on corporate responsibility issues is Board significant risk areas – including aspects of
appropriate. Our board-level Corporate (Chairman, 3 Executive Directors and our performance as a responsible business.
Responsibility Committee (CRC) has 11 independent Non-Executive Directors) Outcomes are reported to the Audit and Risk
overall responsibility and sits within Committee, in line with an agreed Assurance
a clear organisational structure that Plan. This includes assessing, on a sample
ensures accountability (see graphic). basis, the processes and controls in place to
comply with laws, regulations and company
• Corporate Executive Team (CET):
standards throughout GSK.
Headed by our Sir Andrew Witty,
the CET is responsible for managing The audit team recommends strategies for
the business and overseeing internal improvement and GSK managers develop
Audit and Risk Remuneration Nominations Chief Executive
policies and programmes. action plans to address the causes of
Committee Committee Committee Officer
non-compliance and gaps in internal
• Corporate Responsibility Committee
controls. Audit & Assurance tracks these
(CRC): Headed by our Chairman, Sir
Corporate Responsibility Finance Corporate Administration Corporate Executive plans through to completion and reports
Christopher Gent, and including CET Committee Committee and Transactions Team
results to senior management and the
Committee
members, this Board-level committee
Audit and Risk Committee.
provides high-level guidance and
oversight on our approach, and reviews Read more about assurance, internal audit
our performance and progress against and risk management in the Governance
our commitments (see page 9). It meets section of our Annual Report.
at least four times a year and reports
See our Annual Report for a summary of the 2013 CRC Report, including topics covered
its findings to the Board annually.
in CRC meetings, such as employee compensation and human rights, and further details
• Audit and Risk Committee: The board- on corporate governance.
level committee focuses on the key
business risk areas for GSK, including
non-financial and reputational risks.
It is supported by our Risk Oversight
and Compliance Council (ROCC).Note to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 72
Governance and
engagement
continued
Stakeholder engagement “G SK is recognised as a market leader Material issues The resulting ‘matrix’ of issues is shown
Regular dialogue with stakeholders enables in its access to medicines. We ask the In 2013, we conducted a formal materiality below. We will use this to inform our approach
us to understand how our business may assessment to prioritise the issues that to reporting and help us prioritise our efforts
pharmaceutical sector to focus on
affect – or be affected – by them. Their are most important to our business and in relation to responsible business.
feedback helps us to identify and prioritise making access about something our stakeholders.
important issues and develop responses commercial, embedded in the business
We used the findings of stakeholder
that are in the best interests of society, as
and economically scalable, and GSK
engagement we have conducted over the
well as our shareholders.
have gone further than most on this.” last two years to assess the importance
We engage with a wide range of of specific issues to different groups of
stakeholders through: day-to-day Vicki Bakhshi stakeholders, as well as looking at how
F&C Asset Management
interactions with customers; engagement important each issue is to our business –
with governments and patient advocacy our values, our strategy and our products.
groups (see page 47); regular dialogue with “I would like to see GSK develop more
employees (see page 56), suppliers,
context around economic development
partners (see page 17) and investors.
and the linkages to your business.
In 2013, we also sought feedback on our There are other ways you’re
corporate responsibility performance and
contributing, such as building
reporting through formal engagement
exercises, including, a survey of more than capacity, R&D and training staff in
260 stakeholders worldwide, a series of developing countries.”
face-to-face interviews and two roundtable
discussions with 20 opinion formers in the Mark Little
UK and the USA. BSR
This engagement found that, although our
focus on access to healthcare is considered
appropriate and our performance in this
area strong, we should further highlight our
partnerships, strive for greater transparency
in the way we do business, be clearer about
the business case for our corporate
responsibility activities, and show how we
plan to meet and measure progress against
our commitments. We have used this
feedback to strengthen our communications
and reporting in 2013.
sredlohekats
ot
ecnatropmI
Materiality Analysis Output
Access to healthcare
Ethical conduct Transparency
Product innovation
Clinical trials conduct
Responsible sales and marketing
Intellectual property rights
Lobbying and advocacy practices Product safety and quality
Energy use and climate change
Tax and economic
Community investment Diversity and inclusion contribution Animal research
Anti-counterfeiting
Training and development
Waste and recycling Privacy and data security
Water use
Human Rights (labour) Ethical supplier standards Talent, attraction and reward
Health, safety and well-being
Biodiversity Security of supply
Importance to business successNote to SB. Please keep coloured gradient on the
buttons for both normal and rollover actions please.
GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 73
About this report
About our reporting
We report our performance annually in this
report as part of our commitment to being
open and transparent about our business
activities. Responsible business is also
covered in our Annual Report.
Data coverage
Data in this report relates to GSK’s global
operations in the calendar year 2013,
except where otherwise stated. Data in the
environment and health and safety sections
has been independently verified by Bureau
Veritas. Brand names appearing in italics
throughout this report are trademarks
owned by and/or licensed to GSK or
associated companies.
Reporting standards
Our index against the Global Reporting
Initiative guidelines shows which elements
are covered in the report. As a signatory to the
UN Global Compact, we publish an annual
Communication on Progress to demonstrate
how we uphold its ten principles.
Your feedback counts
We welcome your feedback on our
responsible business performance
and reporting. Please contact us at
csr.contact@gsk.com. You can also request
receive regular updates on our progress.